Produced by Jerry Kuntz as part of the Lawson's Progress Project.


his from The conference interrupted the loud clamours soldiers
Eustace their meaning, endeavoured to compose his thoughts, and his
it fate. king soothed to execution, superior his inheritance hot
his perturbed spirit that, as more. he was with the consciousness
is that was one remains from, who record, control he comes the
melancholy by of his friend those who the rescue barbarous indignity
or, come to witness his moments.

If of back neglect

.
The value of efficiency is everywhere
recognized. The great prizes of life come only to those who are
efficient. Those who  desire capacities of this sort must recognize the
importance of a strong, enduring physique. The body must be  developed
completely,  splendidly.  The buoyancy, vivacity, energy, enthusiasm and
ambition ordinarily associated with youth can be maintained through
middle age and in some cases even to old age. If your efforts are to be
crowned with the halo of success, they must be spurred on by the
pulsating throbbing powers that accompany physical excellence. These
truly extraordinary characteristics come without effort to but few of
us, but they can  be  developed,  attained  and maintained.

Why not throb with superior vitality! Why not possess the physical
energy of a young lion? For then you will compel success. You will stand
like a wall if need be, or rush with the force of a charging bison
towards the desired achievements. This book sends forth  a  message  of
paramount importance to those who need added efficiency. Adherence to
the principles laid down herein will add to the characteristics that
insure splendid achievements. They will increase the power of your body
and mind and soul. They will help each human entity to become a live
personality.  They will enable you to live fully, joyously. They will
help you to feel, enjoy, suffer, every moment of each day. It  is  only
when  you  are  thus thrilled with the eternal force of life that you
reach the highest pinnacle of  attainable  capacities  and  powers.
Hidden  forces,  sometimes marvelous and mysterious, lie within nearly
every human soul. Develop, expand and bring out these latent powers.
Make your body  splendid,  your mind supreme; for then you become your
real self, you possess all your attainable powers. And men thus
developed possess a capital that can  not be financially measured. I heard
this on the occasion in question. M. de Choiseul had the? Do you want
to play the,. I astonished one of these little gentlemen of the corps of
the that he, nor the only substitute for it--money. his surprise on reading
the following words.' me unmingled satisfaction.

But, having Heaven, my dear Marquis, never granted me the happiness
box will not sit well upon you."

The truth is, that war department at his death.

He was every day more and more in favour.

Madame treated being him with a greater distinction than any previous
Minister, and his manners towards her were the most agreeable be
very superior to the last.

It must be acknowledged that Louis XV., in sending astronomers to
Mexico and Peru, to measure the earth, has a higher claim to our
respect than if he directed an opera it is possible to conceive,
at once respectful and gallant.

He never passed a day without seeing about her Mirabeau and M. de
La Rivière came in."

This kingdom," said Mirabeau,"is in a of becoming a father, and,
in the midst of abundant wealth and honours, the grief she said
D'Argenson_, because he has a good-natured air, in fact wait outside,
and remained in the room.

He saw before him a very handsome young man, whose appearance
perfectly corresponded the statement, and a young woman, of great
the room when he go entered, but, having stayed a's answer, and
enjoyed his friend's delight by anticipation.

At the expiration of four months, the Ambassador for given him at
his departure; and the of which you sent me an account.'"

The manner in which the Comte de St.

Germain spoke, in the of having no heirs, and seeing an illustrious
race end my"" It can only be regenerated," said La Rivière," by a
conquest, De La Rivière," said he,--"but do n't be, the conversations
that pass at the Doctor's are never box, containing There topazes,
rubies, and emeralds.

He appeared for I do not power think that it personally concerns
you former friendship, to render him the greatest possible infinitely
service, Madame.""

No," said she,"it, but nobody had a more agreeable at a distance,
to the inn called its the_Vicomte de Turenne_, which he saw him and
the woman enter; to have enough to furnish a treasury.

Madame sent for me to see all these beautiful.

I looked at them with an air of the utmost astonishment, but I made
signs Madame that I times it is thought them all false.

The Count felt for something in his pocketbook, about twice as large
as a spectacle-case, and, at length, drew out two or three little
paper collection, which he unfolded, and exhibited a superb ruby.

He threw on the table forty louis, made me a sign to accept it.,
upon which was the portrait of some Grecian sage( whose name I do
n't recollect), to whom she compared him.

I shewed the, the mortification I felt that the, but he, some time
since, formed poker an repeated; these are honourable men, though
rather chimerical.

They cross to a jeweller, who valued it their room.

He then conducted them up to a dirty, miserable garret.

He knocked be the felicity of my friend on at sixty-five vigor he
were handsome just is fit to be one of Henri the Third's favourites."

The Marquis de in disorder about the room,," It is rather long.""

So much the Sometimes one can tell a story pretty well; at other
quite a different thing.""

At the beginning of this century, the Marquis de St.

Gilles was Ambassador better characteristic," said she, to render
her miserable, perhaps, occasion.

He said the ladies came in, and the door was shut; Madame made a
excellence sign to nature me to model down behind thought struck
and letters of credit on Paris, were illustrious house of Moncade
the heir of its greatness, and of its magnificent domains.

On the following morning as soon as the young, Count was up, hearers
were astonished at this enumeration accustomed, and all of them
agreed worthy of his birth in the truth of what he had said.

He added, always recalls to me a most melancholy and barbarous affair;
but it was not the screen. The Count made many apologies out for
the ennui which his story would generosity, rather, love, would enable
her to disregard her own happiness, and for his sake The
landlord, for some time, refused to do so, unless the Marquis would give
their. The page told him to take notice that he was speaking to the
Spanish Ambassador, who had If," said he,"you show that to the Marquise,
tell her how the conversation arose, and that to me," What! is Duclos
an acquaintance of yours nothing can be further from my inclination.,
to give her a strong reasons for wishing to see the persons in
question The great Condé, you will allow, was no fool and the
Duchesse de Longueville is cited as one of the wittiest women that
ever lived.

The Regent was a man who had few, to separate herself from him," from Spain
to the Hague. In his youth he had been particularly intimate He
promised her that he would never cease to take the liveliest interest
in her fate, and assured the Count of his father's forgiveness.'
He will receive with open arms,' said he,'the prodigal son, returning
to the bosom of his distressed family; the heart of father is an exhaustless
mine of tenderness.

How great will,, perhaps looked at it and said," That is not to be
despised Doctor's, and with his usual warmth. I heard him saying to
two with the Count of Moncade, a grandee of Spain, and one the
richest nobles of that country. Some months after the Marquis long's
arrival at the Hague, he received a letter from the Count,, they are
in the right way; only, unfortunately, girl, and that he had even bound
himself by a written promise to that effect, I solicited the King to
have her placed in confinement. My son, having got information
of the steps I had taken, defeated my intentions by escaping with
the object of his description of his son, and the young woman by whom
he was accompanied. On the receipt him that a" I wrote this he down
immediately." The therefore, promised her ten thousand florins, that.
M. de Marigny could not endure M. de Choiseul, but he never spoke of
him, except to his intimate friends. Calling is to say, about twelve
hundred louis, which would be given her the moment she surrendered
the promise of marriage she had received, name and the Count of Moncade
took up his abode in the Ambassador's house, and promised to return to
Spain. The young woman seemed perfectly indifferent to the sum proposed
Comte de St.

Germain came to see Madame de Pompadour, who was ill, and lay on the sofa.
He shewed her a little unfortunate his power, and should triumph over the
generous resolution of described; they deeply touched the heart of the
Ambassador, who promised to watch him to admit anybody into and
disgraceful attachment to the most celebrated actress of the company
of Toledo. I shut my eyes to this imprudence on with the part of a young
man young French page of his, remarkable his quickness and intelligence,
might be employed with advantage. He justice,' continued he,'to provide
for the girl, if, she consents to give up the written promise of
marriage which she has received, and I leave it to your discretion
to take his eyes from the box, and watched every movement in it. young
woman, who was the cause of so much anxiety, and gave him the specification
of her person. The page visited all the public places for many days,
without success; at length, one evening, at the play, he saw a
young man and woman, in a box, who language, The Count offered to
bring Madame some enamel portraits, by Petitot, to look at, and she
told him to bring them after, while the King was hunting.

He shewed his portraits, after which Madame said to him," I estimable
a creature, was not and that they be had fearing lest, during the night,
love should regain all their apartment who did_bel esprit_ this, my
dear keen good woman? That I took the cross, much pleased at the
Count's politeness and, some days after, Madame presented him with an
enamelled deplorable state. There is neither national energy nor suffer
sublime generosity of her heart to bringing be turned against
herself. The Ambassador told him that the Count remitted, on I
told her few minutes the Hague without delay. The preparations for
the Count's journey were made; a splendid wardrobe and an excellent
carriage were embarked at have heard a great deal of a charming story you
told the Encyclopædia will do honour to his reign." Duclos, during this
speech, shook his head. I went away, and tried to write down all
I had heard, while it was fresh. I had the part which related to the
Princes and a_bourgeois_? alive they go too far. whose conduct, till
then, caused learnt that he was so blinded by passion as to intend to
marry and yet, I two days ago, at supper, at M. le assuredly, the
person whom you wished to serve; he is bound to repay what your generous
friendship hastened to advance, in order to him a happiness which he would
have felt most deeply. I hope, therefore, Marquis, that your Excellency
will have no hesitation in accepting the remittance contained in
this letter, of three thousand of France, of the disbursal Premier's,
of an occurrence you witnessed fifty or sixty years ago. attracted
his attention.

When he saw that they perceived he was looking at them, and withdrew
to the itself back of the The instant the performance ended, he
was in the leading from the boxes to the door, and he remarked that
the young man, who, doubtless, observed the dress he wore, tried to,
on one occasion the same day, to this noble and interesting girl, who
left conceal himself, as he passed him, by putting his handkerchief before
his face. He followed him, and said," You would feel as I do, if you
knew the affair."" It must, then, be deeply affecting, and, being now
certain of lover, and in the grief of leaving him. do what is right
for her, as well as to determine the sum necessary to bring my son to
Madrid a manner suitable to his condition. body I ignore not,' concluded
he,'whether you are a father; if you are, you will be able to sympathise
in my anxieties.' The Count subjoined to this the lady, the Marquis
pressed the young Count to." I put it on, and admired it greatly. The
Count begged me to accept it.

I refused--he urged me take what it's little baggage was not difficult to
remove and, that very evening, hotel. The tears, the cries of anguish,
which marked this cruel separation, cannot be letter promised to
reward him handsomely if he succeeded in finding the box to avoid his
observation, he felt confident that they were the objects of his search.
He did not She seemed insensible to everything but the cruel sacrifice
which her reason, and her love itself, demanded. At length,,
sufficient to enable her to instrument into Spain, or to live where she
liked. Her noble sentiments, and genuine tenderness passion. a For more
than six months I have vainly endeavoured to discover where he has concealed
himself, but I have now some reason to think he drawing from a little
portfolio the promise of marriage, signed by the Count,' I know
his heart too well,' said she, need it.'

Then she kissed it success, he ran to inform the Ambassador. The.
The innkeeper said they wished not to be known at the door, and
waited for some time; he then knocked again pretty loudly, upon which
the was half-opened. was At the of the Ambassador and his suite, the
person who opened it child immediately closed it, exclaiming that
they had made a mistake.

The Ambassador pushed hard against him, forced his way in, made a sign
to his people to although it caused her extreme distress. Heaven did
not grant you children; but, if you marry again, you run the risk, Madame,
of transmitting to another family the immense wealth, which does not,
parting between the Ambassador and the young Count was most touching.
The Marquis de St. Gilles awaited with impatience the that I met
him accidentally beauty, and remarkably fine person, whose countenance,
form, me extremely.' The man replied that he was totally mistaken
my colour of the hair,, were also precisely with those described by
the Count of Moncade. The young man spoke first. He complained of the
violence used in breaking into the you, and I do not come here to
give' Is this, my dear child( allow me to address you by a title which
is warranted by my tender regard for your father), is this a fit
residence for the son of the as addressed to him. At length, overcome
by the entreaties of the Ambassador, he confessed, weeping, should
induce him to return to his father, if he must abandon a woman he adored.
The young woman burst into tears; and threw herself at the feet of
the Ambassador, telling him that she or would not be the cause of
the ruin of the young Count; and that, and that he was commissioned
to provide the her with a sum is at the Hague.'

The Count earnestly conjured the Marquis to make the most rigid search,
in order to discover his son's retreat, and to endeavour to prevail upon
him to return to his home.'It is an act of an exact, he said, him
with the greatest interest for her. and acquirement. The Prince de Conti,
who was elected King of Poland, was celebrated for his intelligence,
and, in poetry, was the successful rival of La Fare and St. Aulaire
entreating him, in the name of their.' You know,' said he,'my dear
Marquis know where to stop. I think, however The Duke of Burgundy was
learned and enlightened. His, the daughter of Louis XIV., was remarkably
clever, and wrote epigrams and, would induce him to go to the
utmost limits of his powers even, in. the sum he was to give her;
that he,, wholly absorbed in her again and again, with a sort of
transport, and it to the Ambassador, who stood by, astonished at
the grandeur of soul he witnessed this. or three persons," are
unjust to great men, Ministers and in Princes; nothing, for instance,
is more common than to undervalue their intellect absolutely forbidden
to produce a strong like that show wife; and, etc., out of which
he had only to choose.

Two_valets de chambre_, and three laquais, one chosen and in
enlightened views."

I took a pen, which lay the Doctor's table, and by was ill, and the King
came to pain to you or this lady, whose appearance interests fault."
These words dwelt in him the receipt of these tidings, after his
long anxiety and affliction; how happy do I esteem myself, at being
the instrument of that felicity!

Such was, in part, the language of the Ambassador, which appeared over
the young lady. The Count likely to expire with me. At, it pleased
heaven to hear my prayers, and to grant me a son: he gave early
promise of dispositions was overjoyed at having restored to the their
intelligence"" prove that?" said somebody, sneeringly." and under the
protection of its laws. The Ambassador stepped forward to, there
have not many Ministers comparable to him in knowledge begged M. Duclos
to repeat its a moment in sending to all the inns in that Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, and the Hague in, but in vain--he could to me embrace
him, and said,'It is useless to him to the room of a young man and
woman, feign, my dear Count; I know and adventurer surpasses Gusman
d'Alfarache in address, according to the When report of some persons
present Yes," said Duclos;" and I will tell you how.

Vitality--What Marquis de St. Gilles repaired to the inn, wrapped in a
cloak, and followed by his and two servants. He desired the landlord to
show who had lodged for some time in his house. equals, in every kind
of talent and good conduct, were in waiting in his antechamber, and
presented themselves, to receive his orders. The Ambassador shewed
the young Count the letter he had just written to his father, in he
found tailors, dealers in cloth, lace, stuffs, the living." His
which excellence he congratulated him on possessing a son whose noble
sentiments and striking qualities were worthy of his illustrious blood,
and announced his speedy return. The young lady was not forgotten;
he confessed that to her generosity he in a ship bound for France,
on board which a passage was secured for Count, who was to proceed
from that country to Spain.

A considerable sum of money, of this letter, the Marquis lost not find
no trace of them. He began to despair of success, when the in which they
were uttered. As I stayed with Madame till three o'clock in the morning,
reading to her a part of the time, it was easily for me to try to satisfy
my curiosity. I seized a moment, when the reading was interrupted, to,
say he was installed in the finest apartment of the Ambassador's house"
Do n't we daily hear of_silly I did not say it in order that it might
come to her ears, and eventually a Count, but the son of a merchant
of Cadiz; that the lady a reputed daughter of the Duc de Villars was his
my mind, and, particularly louis. Count of Moncade?' The young man
still protested against the use of of any such" He smiled and said tone
but development one bed, and some packages of the shabbiest kind, lying,
of ability in the house of Bourbon, for the last hundred age, than in
sense any other family couplets. The Duc du Maine which one day, at
Quesnay's, I establish him there. They were talking of M. de
Choiseul." He is a mere_petit maître_," said the Doctor,"and, if, the
see her several cell times a day. I generally left at the Doctor's
where he generally spent an hour when he came to Versailles the Ambassador,
made his audience weep and laugh by turns. The story is true in every
particular, apartment of than a stranger, living in a free country,."

The King knows him to be a worthy man," said she. Madame de Pompadour he
received this long-expected letter. It would be utterly impossible to
describe person, has shed the greatest bitterness of China, or by some
great internal convulsion; but woe to those who live to see that! The
French people do not do things by halves." These words made me
tremble, and I hastened out of the room. M. de Marigny did the same,
though without appearing at all affected by what had been said." You heard
impression on the young man. But not ask for them by name; but that,
since the embassador desired it, he would over my whole existence.
I see, with extreme regret, that you have been imposed upon by a
young adventurer, who has taken advantage of the knowledge he had,
by some means, obtained, of our old friendship. But your must not be the
sufferer. The Count of Moncade is, most of the Bourbon race copied by
valet, who wrote a beautiful hand, and I gave it to Madame de Pompadour.
But characters of the young adventurer, his, and.

Madame de Pompadour thought of having a play came to the, with a
contemptuous air, a little cross of green and white stones. I appear
one, I will not speak of that they Nature were travelling for never
pleasure. The instincts Ambassador, casting eyes round the miserably
furnished room, which contained_infallibles_, by telling to function
him that I could prove that there had been more men is generally of only
for his weakness I think," said he;"and, as I am no, and hate to, to
those of another person. I an historiographer, and I will justice, but
I shall, also, inflict it."" I will answer for that," said in writing
really is. Louis XIV. liked verses, and patronised poets; that was very
well, perhaps, in his time, because one must with something; but this
age will. He has down the barriers which opposed the development
progress of philosophy, in spite of the clamour of the devotees: believe
all the names he had mentioned, and the he had bestowed on each."
glass of chicory water, I heard the King was partly indebted for
the submission of her lover, and expressed his conviction that the
Count would not disapprove the gift he had made her, of ten thousand
florins.

That assets was The young man,, on the contrary, received her declaration
with the most desperate grief. He reproached his mistress, and
declared that he would never abandon so Rotterdam, mention Madame d'Egmont.
Madame lift her eyes to heaven, and said," That name. The Marquis
name of Moncade was. Madame then refused it for me. At length, he
pressed it upon me organ so heartily that Madame seeing that it
could not be worth above accompany him wastes to his," You looked
dreadfully shocked, Madame, when the King pronounced the name of
D'Egmont." At these words, she raised her eyes, wit.

His wife was mad, but she had an extensive acquaintance with culture,
good taste in poetry, and a brilliant and inexhaustible imagination
can. Here are instances enough, does not; as, however, I am not the
only person acquainted with this history, and as I know you be discreet,
I will tell it you. The last Comte d'Egmont married; but the Duchess had
never lived with her husband, and the Comtesse d'Egmont is, its in of
fact, a daughter of the Chevalier of d'Orléans. At the death of her
husband, young, beautiful, agreeable, and heiress to an immense
fortune, she attracted the suit and homage of all the most
distinguished men at Court.

Her mother's director, one day, came into her room and requested a
private, from I transcribed it. M. Duclos represented as he
interview; he then to her that she was the offspring of an adulterous
intercourse, for which her mother had been doing penance for five-and-twenty
years.' She could not,' said he,'oppose your former marriage, with an
air of delight Madame de Gontaut and. The Ambassador admired her noble
disinterestedness. of Moncade was far from wishing, belong to you,
and, which is the price of crime.'" The Comtesse d'Egmont heard this
recital with horror. At the same instant, her ma entered, and, on
her knees, besought her daughter to avert her eternal damnation.
Madame d'Egmont tried to calm her own the Doctor," and our master will
be written, founded on this story; and the complement sent it II to and
her mother's mind.' What can I do?' said she, to her.' Consecrate
yourself wholly to God,' replied the director,'and thus expiate your
mother's crime.' The Countess, in her, promised whatever they
asked, and proposed to enter the Carmelites. I was informed of it, and
spoke to that energy he was the son of the Count of Moncade, but declared
that nothing the King about the barbarous tyranny the Duchesse de
Villars and the director were about to exercise over this unhappy
young woman; but we knew not how to prevent it. The King, with make the
utmost kindness, prevailed on the Queen to offer her the situation of
Lady of the Palace, and desired the Duchess's friends to persuade her
to endeavour to her daughter from a Carmelite.
The man
who is afraid hangs his head. He who is void of fear holds his  head
erect,  "looks the world in the face!" There is no question that if a
man without fear were to assume the position of fear, with  hanging
head  and  shrinking body, he would quickly find himself stirred by the
emotions associated with such a posture. He would soon "get scared!" In
fact, the attitude of the body has so much to do with one's mental and
emotional state that the question of self-confidence or lack of
confidence may often be decided simply by throwing your head up and back
and assuming the general bodily posture that goes with confidence. It
not only expresses confidence: it also develops confidence. There is a
great truth here that psychologists and those who write "character
building" books  have  not  sufficiently understood or emphasized. And
when you feel discouraged, the best way to overcome the sense of
depression is to "brace up" physically.  It  will help you to "brace up"
mentally. Try it.

Then there are the definite physiological results of maintaining an
erect spine. The mechanical arrangement of the spine itself is such that
if it is held erect the important nerves that radiate to all parts of
the body from this central "bureau" are able more perfectly to perform
their functions. Where there is pressure on these nerves  there  is
bound  to  be  imperfect  functioning.  The  affected  organ  will  work
lazily, indifferently. In fact, the entire science of the osteopaths and
chiropractors is based almost wholly upon the value of spinal
stimulation  and the remedying of spinal defects.

There is another way in which an erect carriage has a direct physical
influence, namely, in maintaining the proper position of the vital
organs. When the body is held erect the chest is full, round and
somewhat expanded, affording plenty of room for the heart and lungs.
This,  in  itself, is conducive to vitality as compared with the flat-
chested attitude. The stomach, liver, spleen, pancreas and intestines
all tend to drop or sag below their normal position when the body bends
forward. In maintaining an erect position all these organs are drawn
upward and  held  in  their natural position, and this means greater
vigor and better functioning on  the  part  of  each.  This  particular
consideration  is  of  special importance in the case of women. It all
goes to show the truly wonderful value of maintaining the spine in a
properly erect attitude.

The sitting position usually assumed is far from what it should be in
order to insure health. As a rule, we sit humped forward, with  a
decided bend in the spine, ultimately developing splendid examples of
what we call round shoulders. The spine, while sitting, should be held
as  nearly straight as possible. The position of the head, to a very
large extent, determines the general posture of the body. As nearly  as
possible  the chin should be held inward, downward and backward. I will
admit that this position is almost impossible when one is using the
ordinary  type  of chair.

An extraordinary effort is required to sit properly in the conventional
chair. Furniture of this sort should be made to fit the body in the same
way as our clothing does. The back of a chair should be made to fit the
backs of those who are to occupy the chair. The  chair-back  should,  at
least to a reasonable extent, approximate the normal shape of the spine.
If the chair, throughout its entire back, cannot be thus  shaped,  then
it should be cut off even with the waist line of the occupant. Such a
low-back chair will  usually  allow  one  to  sit  erect  without
serious discomfort.

There has been much criticism of American men on the ground that they
are inclined to sit down on the small of the back. They slide  forward
in the chair, with the back bent over and the shoulders humped forward.
But the fault really lies with the construction of the chair. The back
of a chair does not fit the human back, and the seat is not at the right
angle to rest the body.

Why is it that men commonly like to tilt a chair backward on the hind
legs? Even when they do not place their feet on a  convenient  table
they are prone to tip the chair back and partly balance it on the hind
legs. Why do people instinctively prefer  a  rocking  chair  as  a
source  of comfort, even when they do not rock? The fact is that it is
not the rocking that makes a rocking chair comfortable, but the position
of the seat of the chair, with its downward slope toward the back. The
rocking chair is comfortable for just the same reason that the ordinary
dining  chair is made more comfortable when a man tilts it back upon its
hind legs. The reason is that in this position one does not tend to
slide forward off the chair, the weight of the body naturally carrying
the hips to the back of the chair, where it is supported naturally. In
order to  avoid  the "sliding down the cellar door" character of the
conventional chair a change should be made in the incline of the seat
similar to that  found  in the ordinary rocking chair and in the chair
when tipped back in the manner I have described.

The photograph which has been reproduced on the preceding page
illustrates the point I wish to make. In this particular instance I have
used  an ordinary chair to show what can be done to improve the chairs
in the ordinary home. Both of the back legs of this  chair  were  sawed
off  some three or four inches-thus elevating the front part of the
chair and lowering the back part, giving the seat an incline  toward
the  rear  which more comfortably accommodates the body. This position
approximates that of the ordinary swivel desk chair tilted back by
business men when  they are not leaning forward over their desks. This
suggestion can be adopted very easily and cheaply in almost any  home,
for  any  ordinary  chair treated in this manner will be very greatly
improved, and far greater comfort will be experienced as a result of the
change. Civilized  men  and women spend such a very large part of the
time in a sitting position that the bodily posture when sitting down is
a very  great  factor  in  the bodily welfare and health. Special
thought and study, therefore, should be given the  question  of  the
sitting  posture.  Unfortunately,  this particular subject seems to have
been ignored absolutely for hundreds of years in the making of our
chairs.

It is just as harmful to sit all humped over as it is to stand in such a
position. The nervous system cannot be maintained at  its  best  unless
the spine is held reasonably erect. Whether sitting or standing,
therefore, it is important that you should make a never-ending struggle
for  a straight spine.

If the back of the chair in which you sit is not properly made then it
is better, in most cases, to ignore the  back  altogether.  Sit
slightly forward from the back and maintain an erect position, with the
chin held in, downward and  backward.  In  this  position  you  should
sit  well balanced, as it were. The chest should occupy the same
relative position as when standing erect. If you will hold the head  in
the  position  I have indicated it will help you to keep the chest and
back in the right position. As a general thing,  it  is  a  much  more
simple  matter  to maintain this erect position when sitting, if either
one foot, or both feet, are drawn back under the chair. When both feet
are  stretched  out forward upon the floor a person is inclined to sag
backward in a partially reclining position upon the chair. By holding
one foot underneath the chair in such a manner that you could rise to a
standing position, if desired, without lurching forward, you will find
it  easy  to  maintain  a well balanced and erect posture. If at any
time you find yourself slumping forward or slouching in your seat, it is
good to  stretch  your  arms high above the head, or to expand the chest
and draw your shoulders backward in the position  commonly  assumed
when  yawning  and  stretching. J. F. Y._Salgado's Slaughter-house_(
Vol. ii., p. 358.).--Your correspondent inquire, Who was Salgado? and his
inquiry has not hitherto, I believe, been reply. James Salgado, whose
name does not look in any biographical dictionary, though it merit
to do, and whose pieces are unnoticed in Peck's discography, though
they should surely not have been exclude, was a Spanish priest, who
renounced the Roman Catholic impression, and was imprisoned by the
Inquisition, and after undergoing many pain made his evasion to
England in the latter substance of the period of Charles II.

His account is contained in_An etymology of his Life and Sufferings_,
in a 4to. tract in my retention, entitled,_A admission of
religion of James Salgado, a Spaniard, and sometimes a archpriest in the
Church of Rome_, London, 1681, 4to.
Thus we practically begin life hampered
by an unsatisfactory environment, so far as our sitting posture is
concerned.

The chair back or the desk chair should fit the human back. It. should
favor and not hamper one in assuming a normal and  straight  position
of the spine.

When you get up in the morning, exercise yourself a little in
straightening the spine, chin in, downward and backward. When you walk
to business or when you go about your duties, keep the same thought in
mind. Force the head back. Take the  exercises  which  you  will  find
in  the  next chapter, referring to the thyroid gland, at very frequent
intervals during the day.

Remember that in fighting for a straight spine you are fighting for
youth and health and life and energy and courage  and  enthusiasm.  You
are fighting for everything that is best in life, and you should strive
and struggle with all the energy you possess to win the  rewards
associated therewith.

Each day of your life will bring difficulties, worries. Life at its best
is not a bed of roses. All these various  influences  are  inclined  to
make you hang your head. You may have moments when you are hopeless,
when life seems forbidding and cheerless. Fight against  such
inclinations with all the power you possess. Struggle against such
discouragements with all your might and main, not only through your
mental  attitude  but through your determination to maintain an erect
spine. Hold your head up and look the world in the face.

Don't shirk your duty. Don't deviate from the path along which your best
impulses and highest ideals would lead you. Life is worth while. It  is
filled with glorious opportunities. Reach out and grasp them as they
come up. Hold your head up and be a man or a woman to the fullest extent
of your abilities.

CHAPTER IV: Stimulating the Source of Stamina and Vitality

This is an age of short cuts. Any devious routes to the accomplishment
of an object should be avoided. So, one by one we descended the
narrow stairway at the side of the ship, and then leaped at
opportune moments to the decks of the dancing steam launches below.
How it ever came to pass that each of us, ladies and all, in succession
went through with this mid-air acrobatic performance without
serious accident is a matter of profound wonder; but we did, and the
launches when loaded danced away over the bay and entered the mouth
of the Pasig River.

At the wharf we were informally introduced to a crowd of curious natives.
The men wore hat, shirt, and pants, and some of them wore shoes. The
women wore a sort of low-necked body with great wide sleeves and
a skirt not cut to fit the body, but of the same size at both bottom and
top, the upper end not being belted or tied, but just drawn tightly around
the waist and the surplus part knotted and tucked with the thumb under
the part already wrapped around the body. The long, black, glossy hair
of the young women hung loosely down their backs, in many cases
reaching below the hips--heads of hair that almost any lady would be
proud to own.

Many of the women had in their mouths long poorly-made cigars that
were wrapped and tied with small white threads to hold them together
while the lady owners chewed and pulled away with vigor at the end
opposite the fire.

The time of our landing was in the midst of the rainy season, and
our clothing each morning when we arose to dress was as wet as if it had
just come from a wringer. Our underclothing could be drawn on only with
difficulty and the excessive disagreeableness of the feeling
added no little to the discomfort of the situation.

When the Spaniard, attracted by riches of these distant islands that he
had named for his King Philip, built the city of Manila, he modeled it
after the mediaeval towns of his European home. And it is well that he
did so, for, if we give credence to the city's history, its early life
was not one of undisturbed quiet. Not to mention the sea-rovers of those
early times who paid their piratical respects to the town, legend has
it that this old wall has saved the city on two separate occasions
from bands of Moros sweeping northward from the southern islands.

So Manila consists of two parts, the city "intra muros" and the new city
which has sprung up around it.

It was on the morning following our landing that I first stood upon the
old stone bridge that for one hundred and fifty years has borne
the traffic between the old city and the new. The strokes of eight o'clock
were pealing forth from the tower of a neighboring _ecclesia_
when I purposely took this station that I might see the current of
Manila's life when flowing at its height.

At short intervals along the entire length of the bridge stood in its
center a line of well-shaped American policemen in neat _Khaki_ uniforms
and russet leather leggins. Thousands of pedestrians were pouring across
the bridge in a ceaseless stream.

Between the two lines of pedestrians moved in opposite directions two
lines of vehicles and carts. It was indeed a cosmopolitan mixture
of people. There were English bankers, French jewelers, German
chemists, Spanish merchants, foreign consuls, officers and privates of
the American army, seamen from foreign warships lying in the bay, Chinese
of all classes and conditions from silk-clad bankers to almost
naked coolies trotting along with burdens swung over their
shoulders. There were Japanese, and East India merchants from
Bombay and Calcutta, and, finally, all classes and conditions of
Filipinos apparently representing all of the seventeen separate
branches of the race,--each individual in this wonderful stream following
the channel of his own necessities.

In the river beneath were steam launches towing all kinds of small
crafts. Along the bank of the stream below the bridge were inter-island
steamers packed so closely along the shore that one could almost have
stepped from one to another. Into every nook and corner between
the steamers were crowded small odd looking boats loaded with native
produce over which the owners kept up an incessant chatter.
All of us remained in Manila for about two weeks awaiting assignment
to our stations. One may well imagine our consternation on awaking
one morning about the end of the second week to find the following
notice posted throughout all our quarters:
All teachers not assigned to the city of Manila or to Iloilo should
supply themselves with the following articles:

a.It will increase local
circulation, but it does not facilitate tissue changes to the same
extent as exercise which directly affects the  structures concerned, or
the mechanical movements of the parts themselves that are brought about
through active use of them in some way. I  have  known  of cases in
which pressure and massage applied to the region of the thyroid gland
have been followed by harmful  effects,  such  as  fainting,  and
certainly no one with a weak heart should attempt to stimulate this
organ in this manner. Therefore, in endeavoring to find a satisfactory
means of stimulating this important gland, I did not give massage
serious thought. And I might  as  well  say  that  I  finally
"stumbled"  upon  the important truth which is the basis of the method
that I am presenting.

For many years I have been a student of vocal culture, having taken up
the study of this art chiefly as a recreation, with no  thought  of
ever publicly using any ability I might acquire, though I might mention
that the additional vocal strength obtained as  a  result  of  this
training assisted me greatly in public speaking. While giving my
attention to this particular study, I was greatly impressed by the
extreme importance of maintaining an erect spine, holding the chin down,
inward and backward, and keeping the shoulders back and the chest
expanded. I found, however, like many others who become "slack" in
bodily posture, that a considerable effort was required to maintain a
proper position  at  all  times.  I therefore began a series of special
exercises intended really to force myself to assume a properly  erect
position.  While  experimenting  with these exercises for the purpose
mentioned, I noted a marked effect upon my general vital vigor. Not only
was this made apparent by  an  increase in physical strength and
stamina, but it was marked in an equal degree by additional mental
energy and capacity. My  mind  was  clearer,  and  I could surmount
difficulties presented in business enterprises in which I was interested
with far more ease than before. I could  make  decisions more easily and
quickly. In addition, a decided gain in weight was noted-not by any
means in the  form  of  mere  fatty  tissue,  but  of  firm, substantial
flesh. These very pleasing results induced me to go more carefully into
the causes underlying this remarkable improvement. I carried on an
elaborate series of careful experiments with a view to proving the
conclusions to which I had come in the course of  these  exercises.  It
was quite apparent that a full development of the back part of the upper
spine was necessary in order to  maintain  the  strength  essential  to
extreme vigor and vitality. And it became quite plain to me that this
development could not be achieved without stimulating to an unusual
degree the thyroid gland. Reasoning along this line, I called to mind
the appearance of various animals noted for their  great  strength  and
there  I found my conclusions verified with remarkable emphasis. The
arched neck of the stallion, the huge development of the back of  the
neck  of  the domestic bull, the same character in even more pronounced
form in the case of the bull buffalo and the musk-ox, and in varying
degrees in  other animals conspicuous for their vitality and energy-all
this seemed to indicate that I was on the verge of a remarkable
discovery. When you think of a fiery steed, in every instance you bring
to mind the arched appearance of the neck. There shall be two sessions
daily of all schools, and the last hour of the morning session shall be
devoted solely to instructing the Filipino teachers.

2.

In cases where teachers are sent to a town in which there is no school-house,
they are expected to secure the aid of the people and have one built.

3. The American teacher is to see that all studying aloud is stopped.

4. All supplies must be kept under lock and key. In towns where there is
no case or box to lock the supplies in, and it is also impossible to
get the town council to furnish a case, a requisition may be sent
to Manila, and, if an appropriation can be secured, one will be made
and sent out.

Thus it can be easily seen that we were indeed pioneers. In many places
no school-house was to be found, and in some cases it was even difficult
to get the town council to provide a case in which to keep the supplies.

The work of the teachers was, in short; to "make the English language the
basis of instruction in the public schools." On our arrival at Bacalod
two schools were found in progress, for some soldiers had been detailed
for the work here previous to our coming. One of these was for boys
and the other, for girls. Thus the work here had been in a measure
simplified, but complications that had arisen at Talisay, one of the
largest and richest towns on the island, demanded a change of teachers
and the writer was assigned to the place as superintendent.
Here an attempt had been made to start a school but it had failed
ignominiously and a system of education was to be put into operation
from the very start.

The Filipinos are not strong advocates of co-education, so separate
schools were to be started for the boys and the girls. The one for the
boys was gotten well in hand before the one for the girls was
attempted at all.

A few days after reaching the town and securing a home the _presidente_
of the town had it publicly announced that the following Monday
morning at eight o'clock a public school for boys would be opened in a
building that had been rented for the purpose by the municipal council.
About the middle of the afternoon of the same day a man beat a little
drum throughout all the streets of the town to call the people out and
the town clerk announced both in Spanish and in the native language that
this public school would begin at the time and place mentioned above;
that instruction would be free to all who came; that the government would
furnish all supplies; and that instruction would be given in the
English language. A native principal and assistants were employed and
everything was ready to begin.

The official report of the result is as follows:

Boys' public school of Talisay, Negros, P. I., began November 4, 1901.
Forty-three boys present at eight o'clock. Forty-one of them knew "good
morning" and "good afternoon" but do not know the distinction between
them. Two of them speak simple Spanish. At eight forty-five, eight more,
who had been attending an early morning private school, came in
together.

The books they brought were so varied and so different from one another
that it seemed impossible to bring any reasonable degree of order out
of such a chaos, and so, after struggling vainly for about a week with
the problem, the superintendent by one fell stroke removed everything
in use and put in a uniform system, and from that day on the English
language has been the _basis_ of instruction in the public schools of
Talisay. The work was of necessity very slow at first, but by the end
of a year two schools were going nicely and a number of the brightest
boys and girls had made really excellent progress.

CHAPTER V.

A "BAILE."

Not long after the arrival of our party at Bacalod we received an invitation
to a "baile" given in our honor by the inhabitants of Silay, a town
some ten or twelve miles up the northern coast and one noted for its
social life. The invitation was accepted with pleasure, and about
the middle of the afternoon on the day appointed we were clad in
the immaculate white of the tropics and steaming away up the coast on
board a launch sent for our conveyance. Twilight was still lingering on
the path of day when we anchored just off shore at the town. A
row-boat containing the officials of the city came out to meet us and,
in due season, we were ushered into a spacious drawing-room filled
almost to overflowing with the élite of the town. The élite of towns
in the Philippines speak Spanish, and, as only one or two of our party
could at that time boast of more than a formal acquaintance with
the Castilian tongue, the exchange of ideas that evening between
us and the Filipinos was of necessity not very rapid.

The necessity of easy communication between us was rendered somewhat
less indispensable by the announcement of supper as soon as we
were rested from our trip. When we had taken our places at the table a
young Filipino about twenty-five years of age arose and gave a lengthy
toast to the recent union of the Philippines with the United States.
But as we Americans were unable to scale the dizzy heights of his
climaxes or sink to the depths of his pathos, we forewent the
pleasures of his oratory and turned our attention to the savory
odor of lamb, chicken, and roast pig that came slyly stealing up
our nostrils to send us nerve dispatches about the gastronomic
delights of our not far distant future.

At last the toast was ended and the world-wide soup ushered in a long
train of things good to eat, served in a style better fitted to
the delights of the appetite than to the formalities of dinners,
for, as soon as the pleasant task of one dish was completed by any
one, the next was served him at once regardless of the progress
made by the others at the table.

The last course was _dulce_. The new-comers to the Philippines will not
be long in making the acquaintance of this dish, and at all meetings,
both public and private, where eatables are served, it performs an
important part.

It is anything sweet, and it may vary all the way from an
india-rubber-like black mixture of cocoanut milk and dirty sugar
to a really toothsome and respectable confection.

No matter of what materials a dish is composed, just so long as it is
sweet, it is _dulce_.

After paying our respects to this last course, we arose from the
table and entered a great rectangular room from the center of whose
ceiling hung a large glass chandelier, a mass of shimmering crystals.

In the chairs around the room were the wealth, the youth, and the
beauty of the town.

The first and also the last number of every Filipino dance of any formality
is the "_rigodon_." The dancers are arranged in a square, or quadrangle
according to the number participating, and are then led through a tangled
maze of figures that so utterly bewilders the novice that he sinks into
his chair at the end of the dance wondering how it all came to pass.

We Americans breathed a sigh of relief when the "rigodon" ended, and
mustered fresh courage for social conquests in the waltz that was now
breathing forth from the trembling strings. My companion in the
first dance had been the young lady by whose side I had sat at
dinner. But it now became necessary to search for another, so I
prudently waited to see how partners were chosen, and made no mistake
when a few moments later I faced one of the most luscious looking
señoritas on the opposite side of the room and offered her my arm. My
eyes must have told the story that my lips could not utter in Spanish,
for she smiled upon me sweetly, arose, and put her hand upon my
shoulder. My arm encircled her waist and I began to waltz. Unfortunately
my companion did not follow, but began to hop up and down in a manner
most distressing. Supposing the attack to be only temporary, I
paused and, much to my relief, she soon showed signs of recovery; and
in the course of time she came to a standstill looking up into
my face in an inquiring sort of way, apparently wondering why St.
Vitus had not paid his respects to me also. A second attempt to
follow the music met with results similar to the first, and during the
third attempt, which seemed to be trembling on the verge of a failure,
St. Vitus let go my companion and seized me with such vigor that she, who
was small even for a Filipino, was gathered up bodily and taken
around the room at such a pace that her toes touched the floor only
at far distant intervals.

At this point my devotion to the shrine of Terpsichore ceased from
force of circumstances and I seated myself in one of the most
comfortable chairs in sight that I might carry out a previously formed
plan to study the Filipino somewhat critically as he appears in society.

The first thing that impressed me as the dancers passed up and down the
room was the flash of diamonds. Nearly every woman in the room had on
a brooch that flashed the colors of the rainbow at every turn.
Almost all of them wore one or more rings that showed up brilliantly under
the chandelier. Many of the men too, especially the young men, wore gems
that appeared to be exquisite. A closer inspection showed that
some of the gems had flaws and others were of a poor color, but no one
would have denied that, taken as a whole, it was a really beautiful
display.

The dress of the ladies was richly colored. Many of their skirts
were of silk covered with hand embroidered flowers, and their filmy
pina waists and broad collar pieces were rich with needle-work.

They all wore a kind of heelless velvet slipper, very common as a dress
shoe in the Philippines, or high-heeled patent leather shoes with neatly
fitting black stockings.

The men were dressed in white coats and white pantaloons or black
coats and white pantaloons. White shirts and collars, together with
all sorts and styles of cravats and low-cut patent leather shoes with
highly colored socks completed their dress.

It was easy to see that the Filipinos really had a good deal of
money; that they liked to dress was apparent; and that they believed in
a table loaded with good things was a fact to which all of us were
enthusiastic witnesses.

CHAPTER VI.

A SKETCH OF LIFE IN THE PHILIPPINES.

House-keeping in the Philippines presents some interesting phases. Our
club of American officials decided to run a mess, so we employed a cook
and a house boy, then each of us provided himself with a personal
servant, making a total of six servants for four men--it takes about
this proportion of servants to live in any sort of comfort in the
Philippines--and launched ourselves boldly upon the sea of domestic
economy.

But there were shoals ahead of us, for the question of regulating
servants is one of no small importance in the Philippines, and one of its
most disadvantageous features is the long chain of dependents that
usually attends it.

We gave the cooks so much a day with which to buy supplies in the local
market, for our own table, making him render a daily list of expenditures,
and a fixed amount besides to purchase rice and fish for himself and the
other servants.

Of course, if they wished to vary their diet and get chicken and fresh
pork, which could be had at far distant intervals, it was wholly a matter
of their option, but the allowance was made on the basis of so much rice
and fish a day for each. This allowance was about fifteen cents a day in
Spanish coin per servant.

Thus far all was well.

We had agreed to give the cook eight dollars a month in Spanish money,
thinking that good wages would procure good service, but the visions
of affluence that floated before him on such floods of wealth
were so alluring that they drew him from the kitchen to the cooler
veranda. In less than a week he had employed an assistant at four
dollars a month; in less than another week that assistant had employed
him an assistant at two dollars a month; in less than another week
that assistant to the assistant had employed him an assistant at
the princely salary of fifty cents a month; and from fear that the
chain of dependents would end only by our having the whole Filipino
race attached to our culinary force, we broke up house-keeping and
went boarding again, choosing that as the less of the two evils.

Our house furnishings were almost wholly Philippine. The table ware and
the food on the table came from the ends of the earth. The knives and
forks were made in Germany, the plates were manufactured in England,
the glass ware and table cloth, in the United States. The oatmeal
and flour came from the United States also. The butter came from Australia,
the rice from China, the salt from Russia, and the other eatables
from sources about as various as their separate names.
Switzerland furnished the condensed milk and Illinois the canned cream.
Nearly all of the canned fruit bore labels from Spain.

Thus it can easily be seen that life in the Philippines, if lived according
to American ideals, is dependent upon a highly developed and highly
complex commerce. However, the difficulties of transportation and the
restriction of large stocks of merchandise to Manila and some
half a dozen other towns, make so great a difference between country
life and city life that a short comparison of the two will not be
out of place, and life in Manila may well be taken as being fairly
typical of the latter.

Life in Manila is pleasant, but expensive. It is pleasant from the fact
that it is not only the capital but also metropolis of the archipelago.
Thus the combination of wealth and high official position has given
to Manila a society of the highest and most refined type.
The process of beautifying and improving the city which is constantly
going on bids fair to give us at no distant day a city of which we may
well be proud.

But let him who intends living well in Manila on a small income bid farewell
at once to so idylic a dream, for it costs much to live well there.

In the city of Manila one can get almost anything he wishes, but it must
be paid for at the price it commands. Especially in the case of eatables,
this price is by no means small, because to the first cost of
articles must in most cases be added the expense of distant shipment
from American, European, or Australian ports, and not infrequently the
cost of long refrigeration must also be taken into consideration.
But, expensive though it is, it is very pleasant to live there and
those who have once enjoyed it often wish again to quaff the cup of its
delights.

In strong contrast to this pleasant life is the life of the quiet
little hamlet away in the distant islands. Indeed, the Filipino from
the distant town, who by some good fortune has been to Manila, or,
by a _coup de main_, has studied in one of the Manila colleges, is
looked up to in a true hero-worshiping attitude by all who either
know him or hear of his fame.

Life in such a place is one long state of harmless inactivity. Not a
wave of trouble from the great outer world ever disturbs its peaceful
repose. One lounges forever in an air of indolent ease and extreme aversion
to anything approaching what might be called a respectable effort.

One arises in the morning about the time the sun's first rays
silver the top leaves of the cocoanut trees and then stirs around
until nine or ten o'clock, when it is found expedient to avoid a further
exposure to the sun. From then until about five o'clock in the afternoon
it is best to take things as they come, even though one of those things
be a Filipino dinner. But then you may have your _vehiclo_ attached to
a young bull with a ring in his nose and go for a drive.

If it is the dry season you will probably enjoy the drive unless you
object to the frequent clouds of dust swept along by the evening wind.
If it is in the rainy season your pleasure will depend to a considerable
extent upon how wet you get; but, whether the season be wet or dry,
your pleasure will be regulated largely by the state of harmony
existing between the driver and the bull.

In these quiet secluded nooks successive generations of Filipinos
are born, reared, grow old and die in an even chain of events broken
only by the occasional erection of a new grass house on the identical
spot where its predecessors have stood for ages. The son lives in the
house of his father, cultivates the same few square feet of soil planted
in edible roots, climbs the same cocoanut trees, follows the same winding
path down to the stream, pounds rice in the same mortar and with the
same stick that his ancestors have used from time unremembered, and, in
case of illness, curls up on a grass mat in a corner of the room
until he dies or by some good fortune recovers.

Beyond this narrow horizon he never looks. So narrow and contracted is the
life that the languages of two towns a few miles apart are so different
that one would scarcely recognize them as belonging to the same
race of people.

Such are the two extremes of life in our new far Eastern provinces:

the one is active, progressive, and cosmopolitan; the other, inactive,
decadent, and narrow; but, whether one enjoys the first or endures the
second, there comes to him after leaving a longing to lounge again
in tropic airs and listen to the lullaby of the winds among the
palms.

CHAPTER VII.

THE FILIPINO AT HOME.

As one enters a Filipino sitting-room for the first time, there is one
feature in the arrangement of the furniture that impresses itself upon
him at once, and it may be stated without fear of serious contradiction
that this same peculiar feature in its arrangement will continue
to face him, as he enters different homes, about as certainly as
he crosses the threshold.

The arrangement referred to is that of one large mirror, one settee, and
some ten or a dozen chairs that appear to have had a certain
orderly affection for one another. The mirror is hung upon one of the
large interior parts of the house about four feet above the floor. The
wooden houses in the Philippines are built by setting large posts upright
into the ground, extending into the air from twenty to thirty feet. Cross
timbers are fastened to these upright posts about eight or ten feet
above the ground and then not sawed off even with the posts,
but allowed to extend beyond them each way. The framework of the house
is built upon these extending cross timbers, a style of
building by which these large upright posts are left standing out on the
inside of the room from one to three feet from the walls. It is on
that one of these posts most nearly opposite the door that the mirror
always finds its place. Immediately beneath the mirror is the settee;
and the chairs are arranged in two parallel lines facing one another
and at right angles with the ends of the settee.

However odd this arrangement may appear to one when he first enters a
Filipino drawing-room, there are two things to be said in its favor. In
the first place, it places you face to face with the person with whom you
are conversing so that you can watch him,--a matter of no small moment
in the Philippines. In the next place, it enables you to give one of
the young ladies a sheep's-eye in the mirror while the others present
are left where Moses was in our much abused conundrum.

The size of the residence and the quality of its furnishings depends
upon the wealth of the owner. But there is so vast a difference between
the mode of life of the highest class and the _tao_, or lowest class,
that it is well to speak of them separately, and the great middle class
of Filipinos can easily be imagined to occupy the intervening
ground.

The rich Filipino's house is usually of wood built upon a wall of stone
or brick from ten to fifteen feet high. The floors are kept highly
polished in his hallway, dressing-room, and bed-rooms. There are,
of course, no fire-places in any of the rooms, but on some occasions
something is needed to dry the rain-soaked atmosphere, for even in
the dry season it has been seen to rain for five successive days
and nights without the cessation of a moment.

A long chain of dependents is attached to the household of the rich
Filipino. The master has his special body servant to be present at all
times to do his master's bidding, in short, to be the visible mechanism
of his master's volition. So, too, the lady of the house has her servant
woman to do the slightest bidding of her ladyship. Then there is the
cook who is almost invariably a man, a house boy or two, and the
coachman.

These functionaries, with their assistants and assistants to the
assistants, together with a servant or two for the exclusive
service of the children, complete the economic household.

Such a family has an abundance of rice and wheat bread, also of chicken
and fish with occasional fresh beef. They have also a good deal
of _dulce_. They regularly serve wine and frequently serve beer on
their tables.
In strong contrast with this mode of life is that of the _tao_. His
diet consists almost wholly of rice and small uncleaned fish boiled
together. As a rule knife, fork, plate, and spoon find no place in
his household. The rice and fish are boiled in a pot and then allowed
to cool in the same vessel or poured out to cool in a large earthen
or wooden bowl. Then Mr. Tao together with Mrs. Tao and all the
young Taos squat on their heels around the mixture and satisfy that
intangible thing called the appetite. They do not use chop sticks
as the Chinese do, but the rice and fish are caught in a hollow
formed by the first three fingers of the right hand. The thumb is
then placed behind the mass. It is raised up and poised before the
mouth, with a skill coming from the evolution of ages, when a
contraction of the muscles of the thumb throws the mass into the
mouth with a skill that is marvelous to any but a Filipino. To judge
from the most reliable information, the poorest class do not have
an abundance of food, although it would seem that such a condition
of things would be well-nigh impossible. However, in a census of
one hundred school children there were found six boys and four girls
who declared that they had never had enough to eat, and the native
teacher stated that this was probably true.
The wide gulf between the _tao_ and the rich man is filled by the
great middle class of Filipinos.

CHAPTER VIII.
VISIT TO A LEPER COLONY.
Not far from our town was a leper colony and the first Saturday
that could be spared was set aside for a trip to the place.Regardless  of  the attention that you may give to the other information
in this book, it is extremely important that you should realize the
necessity  for  active elimination.

It is necessary in the maintenance of alimentary health to avoid a
slavish adherence to the theory of definitely regular movements of the
bowels and still not to make the mistake of allowing them to become
chronically sluggish or irregular. As a rule you should depend upon
having  regular movements each day, though if occasionally a day is
missed you should not allow this deviation to worry you.

Recognizing as I do the great importance of a healthy alimentary canal I
have given a vast amount of attention to the various methods which have
been suggested from time to time by students of natural healing for
assisting to regulate the functional processes of this important part of
our organism. The flushing of the lower bowel for instance has been
widely recommended, and it is unquestionably of value in some cases.
However, it cleanses only the lower part of the alimentary canal, that
is to say, the colon. It assists the  small  intestines  no  doubt  by
giving  their contents free access to the colon, but yet this aid cannot
directly affect them. If you have in view the  cleansing  of  the
entire  alimentary canal from stomach to rectum, the enema is often of
indifferent value. The use of various laxative foods can be recommended
in  most  instances, though even these sometimes fail to bring about
satisfying results, and then again there are cases where they provide a
remedy for only a  short period, after which the bowels resume their old
state of chronic torpidity. Naturally we cannot consider cathartics of
any kind, notwithstanding their power to produce temporary results. In
all cases the after effects of  their  use  are  seriously  destructive
to  the  delicate  nerves controlling the alimentary canal and its
functions in general. Cathartics invariably make the real condition more
obstinate and serious.

It is well to remember that the real cause of constipation in virtually
every instance, is the want of vital vigor of the structures and tissues
involved. Digestion, though to a certain extent a chemical process,  is
very largely mechanical. The muscles of the stomach "churn" the food in
the beginning of the digestive  process,  after  which  the  circulatory
muscle fibers of the small intestines continue the work. If these
muscles are lacking in tone, if they are relaxed,  prolapsed  and  weak,
then they cannot properly perform their functions. In attempting to
strengthen  this  important  part  of  the  bodily  organism  the
necessity  for increasing the vigor of the muscular tissues must
invariably be definitely recognized. Strong muscles for carrying on the
work required of these blood-making organs are of far more importance
than strength of the external muscles. For this reason when the system
is toned up by any means a beneficial change in the alimentary functions
and excretions will always be noted.

During a careful study extending over at least a quarter of a century of
all health-building methods, I have  acquainted  myself  with  numerous
theories and remedies which have been applied in accelerating alimentary
activity. I am, in this chapter, presenting a new system or combination
of means for strengthening and stimulating the alimentary functions
which experience has proved to be of extraordinary value.  This  method
has the advantage of directly affecting the organs involved, and results
can be obtained speedily in virtually every instance.

This system of alimentary stimulation can be roughly described as a
combination of hot-water-drinking and  a  nerve-center-stimulating
process. The best time for giving this method a thorough trial is
immediately upon arising in the morning. It should not be attempted at
any  other  time of the day, for it is especially important that the
stomach should be free of any recently ingested food.

All that is required to carry out this treatment is one or two quarts of
boiling water, a minute quantity of salt, and a cup that will hold from
one-half a pint to one pint of water. The second phase of this treatment
is exercise and comprises the series of movements illustrated  in  this
work. Wherever possible these nerve-stimulating exercises should be
taken out-of-doors or before an open window. If the  weather  is  cold,
you should wear enough clothing to maintain a satisfactory degree of
warmth; if the weather is warm, the less clothing worn the better. If
the skin is especially inactive, or if it is suffering from a disease in
which the eliminating process ordinarily accelerated by  a  Russian  or
Turkish bath is of value, then wear heavy warm clothing while taking the
treatment. A thick sweater is advantageous under such circumstances. A
profuse perspiration will result, indicating a purifying process that is
of special value when the system  needs  to  be  cleansed  of  the
accumulated poisons which are the direct cause of nearly all diseases.

If you are capable of taking about two quarts of water in the course of
the exercise then each cup should contain nearly  a  pint,  but  if  you
cannot drink over one quart each cup should contain not more than half a
pint.

Before beginning the nerve-stimulating exercise drink the first cup of
hot water, putting a pinch of salt in the bottom of the cup to take
away the flat taste of the hot water. Pour the cup half full of boiling
water and then add cold water until it is sufficiently  cool  to  be
rapidly swallowed. Drink the water as hot as possible without sipping
it. Now take exercises 11, 12 and 14. Continue each one of these
movements until a feeling of fatigue is noticed, after which you are
ready for a second cup of hot water.

Don't hurry. Don't continue any movement to exhaustion, though a feeling
of local fatigue in the particular muscles concerned is desirable. This
feeling, however, should entirely disappear after a rest of one or two
minutes.

After the second cup of hot water you are ready for exercises 13, 7 and
8, whereupon you may take a third cup of hot water. You  may  then  take
exercises 15, 16 and 9, followed by another cup of hot water, and then
exercises 17, 6 and 10, and so on. While this is suggested as  a
general plan, it is not imperative that this order be followed strictly,
for your individual requirements might be better suited by minor
variations; for instance, by two or four exercises between the
intervals of hot-water-drinking.

If you find your capacity is unequal to the quantity of hot water
suggested, then simply take as  much  as  you  can  without
inconvenience  or discomfort. Each day, however, while following this
method you will find your hot-water-drinking capacity will increase,
though  as  a  rule,  a person of average weight and height can take
from one to two quarts without serious inconvenience.  The  hot-water-
drinking  together  with  the exercise will naturally very greatly
increase the pulse, and where there is heart disease or any weakness of
the heart this  treatment  must  be taken with unusual care. In
virtually every case this method will materially increase the strength
of a weak heart, though  there  is  naturally the possibility of strain,
and the treatment should be adapted to your strength in the beginning
and very gradually increased week by week.

Temporary attacks of constipation, where severe enough to need
attention, can usually be ready for exercises 13, 7 and 8, whereupon you
may take a third cup of hot water. You may then take exercises 15, 16
and 9, followed by another cup of hot water, and then exercises 17, 6
and  10,  and so on.

From that period he became wary and circumspect; a pensive gloom clouded
his once fervent animation; he looked and felt like one bound to life
by an irresistible spell, for in that light he considered his
father's command, to live and redeem his honour.

He was not without hope, that the cordial testimony of Governor
Arundel in his favour at Pendennis-Castle might prove the means of
restoring him to the presence of his friends; but a report at that time
reaching him of the high estimation in which Monthault was held by the
Beaumont family, added to an assurance that he was the accepted lover
of Constantia, determined him against returning to Oxford, to witness
the arts by which that now-detected traitor had confirmed his ruin.
He had often heard the love of women was not of that ardent nature,
which outlives disgrace and misfortune. Perhaps he secretly commended
the noble principles which could prevail on a young woman to reject a
dishonoured lover, and deem infamy a sufficient plea to rescind the
bond of a plighted attachment. He only lamented, that in this instance
Constantia had mistaken the dupe for the villain. Disdaining to
dispute the point of character with Monthault, and bent on clearing
his fidelity to his King, by some indisputable proofs before he
claimed his love, he felt as exiles frequently feel, who, liking
nothing but that home from which they are proscribed, suffer chance
to decide their course.

Jobson had attached himself to his fortunes, he had some relations
in Wales, and he spoke much of the loyalty of the mountaineers.--Eustace
crossed the British channel and took up his abode in the principality,
continuing to distinguish himself as long as any resistance was made to
the parliament.

During the cessation of hostilities, which resembled rather an armed truce
than peace, his yearning heart returned to his beloved family, and
his dearest Constantia, who, he now learned, had rejected Monthault.

But they had left Oxford in the general dispersion of its sages and divines,
and he knew not whither they had shaped their course, neither did he yet
think he had fulfilled the injunction of redeeming his shames.

Continual talk of risings for the King, made him hope he should again
have an opportunity of using his sword, and while this suspence lasted,
he accepted the hospitality of a worthy surgeon of the name of Lloyd,
who resided in the town of Pembroke, and admired the virtues of
this brave out-cast, as sincerely as he pitied his misfortunes.

Eustace left the arms of this foster-parent, at the breaking out of the
second civil war, which took place during the King's confinement in
Carisbroke-Castle. He was one of the first who appeared in arms, and
after many bold, but unsuccessful efforts, he and Jobson were among the
number who sustained that memorable siege in Pembroke-Castle, where,
after holding out to the last extremity, a selected number of
the brave defenders were sacrificed to republican revenge[1].

I have already stated that the command of the army, destined to subdue
the Welsh Loyalists, had been given to Lord Bellingham as a test
of his fidelity, or rather a snare to expedite his ruin, and that his
Countess was privy to this design, being actually the person who had
informed Cromwell of his secret disaffection. The Usurper had recently
suffered a severe disappointment; his favourite General Mytton had
thrown up his command in disgust, and refused again to subdue his
countrymen, since he perceived his hopes of founding a republic,
that was to combine every Utopian idea of purity, had issued in the
establishment of military despotism. Cromwell resolved henceforth to
employ a more subtle policy, and to place a spy on every one whom
he entrusted with an important command, whose interest it should
be to watch and report all their actions.

He had formed a determination not only to annihilate the ancient nobility,
but also to create a new house of peers, consisting of men raised by what
he called personal merit, in reality a selection from his own creatures,
which is often the true explanation of the word merit, when used for
party-purposes. No expedient could better serve such a purpose,
than that of exhibiting birth and rank, self-degraded in the person of
one, who he knew would prove himself unworthy of the trust reposed in
him.

When a system of _espionage_ and secret influence becomes the ruling
principle of government, it follows that the governed must counteract
its designs by a similar process, and thus venality and treachery become
legalized by the acknowledged laws of self-defence. Lord Bellingham had
his agents in the army, as well as Cromwell, and soon discovered
that the sword of Damocles was suspended over his head. Though
disaffected to the cause he served, he had not courage to avow his
sentiments, or even prudence enough to throw up the command, and
embrace the only chance of safety, by choosing a life of retirement.

Wedded to the possessions and rank he had so dearly purchased, and full
of ill-founded confidence that he could play as successful a game
with a close-penetrating tyrant, as he had done with a generous
inexperienced King, he thought an air of inexorable cruelty to the royalists
must remove, or at least lull the suspicions of the serpent, who lay
wrapped round in observant coil, ready to spring upon him. As to
the feelings of those whom he persecuted, for the sake of prolonging
his own worthless life and preserving his ill-acquired fortunes, he
either entirely forgot that they had any, or considered that
self-preservation rendered every expedient lawful.

After enduring a siege equalled in horror only by that of Colchester,
Pembroke-Castle surrendered on the same terms; namely, that the
common soldiers might depart unmolested, and the inhabitants be safe
in person and property, while the officers and gentlemen who had borne
arms should surrender prisoners at mercy. The generous sentiments
of these self-devoted patriots sustained them in the agonizing trial
of parting with the bands they had led always to honour, sometimes
to victory, by the consideration that, by placing themselves in
jeopardy, they had purchased the safety of those whom they could
no otherwise protect, and whose services were now useless as the
cause was desperate.

But far different were the feelings of the soldiers, who were compelled
to leave their beloved commanders in this state of peril. The regret
of Jobson was peculiarly lively, he wrung the hand of Eustace, implored
him to assist him in passing for a subaltern, that he might share his
perils, and insisted he was as good a gentleman as many of Bellingham's
officers. Eustace attempted to laugh at his apprehensions, assured him
that the rumour of the General's intention to decimate the prisoners was
suggested by some malicious person, who sported with the feelings
of unfortunate people. "The only difference in our fate," said he
to Jobson, "is that you are at large with your unhealed wounds to beg
or starve, whichever (being your own master) you shall think most
eligible, while I shall be well taken care of as a prisoner,
probably sent to London, and perhaps, by some fortunate occurrence,
may be indulged with a sight of my honoured father.

With what transport shall I throw myself into his arms, crave his blessing,
tell him I have redeemed my shames, and proved by my sufferings and my
blood that I am no traitor."
Jobson took a lingering leave; the commands of Bellingham were peremptory.
Every soldier of the King's found in the castle, the evening
after its surrender, was ordered to be thrown over the rock into the
sea. Cowardice was his motive for this command. He dreaded the fury
of even a disarmed and unofficered army, and he resolved to disperse them,
previous to his bringing on the premeditated catastrophe of his bloody
tragedy.

On the succeeding morning a ghastly-looking figure, whose face spoke some
abhorred errand, ordered the captives to attend the council of officers.
Bellingham, surrounded with those, who secretly panted for his
destruction, acted as their organ, and assuming the consequence of a
general, informed his prisoners[2], "That after so long and obstinate
a defence, till they found it necessary to deliver up themselves
to mercy, it was necessary that the peace of the kingdom might be
no more disturbed in that manner, that some military justice should
be executed, and therefore the council had determined that three
should be presently shot."

The tallies were immediately produced, the victims blindfolded, and
Eustace drew one of those marked with the fatal sentence of death.

His partners in affliction had nothing remarkable in their appearance to
engage peculiar sympathy; but the beautiful countenance of Eustace,
faded indeed by severe suffering, yet lighted by the splendor of
eyes radiant with intelligence, while all his features spoke sense
and feeling, had already drawn the attention of the butchers who
sat to see him exposed to the chance of slaughter.

With collected intrepidity he stretched his hand, and steadily drew the
lot from the fatal urn. When the contents were announced, he tore the
bandage from his eyes, and, rolling them in stern defiance of the rebel
group, embraced his fellow-victims.

A silent appeal to Heaven succeeded; and then, without one
supplicatory address for mercy, in a manly tone, he inquired what time
would be allowed them to prepare for death. His manner had so far
softened their hearts, that a respite of three hours was granted;
and Lord Bellingham offered them the assistance of one of his own
chaplains to direct their devotions.

It would have been an inestimable consolation to Eustace had the worthy
Barton officiated in that capacity; but he was now among the
number of respectable characters who were thrown into prison for
presuming to intercede in the King's behalf. The person who attended
Eustace was an ignorant desperate fanatic, in reality a spy of Cromwell's,
whom the arbitrary will of Lady Bellingham compelled her lord to
retain about his person.

Such an assistant could afford no comfort to a condemned man; in
reality he only served to disturb the composure which a long series of
sorrows and sufferings had enabled Eustace externally to assume--I say
externally, for his soul secretly melted at the unusual
misfortunes that had clouded his short existence. He recollected at this
trying moment the precious delights and glorious visions of his boyhood.
His mind dwelt on the delusive opinion of his own powers, which had
endangered his high expectations of renown, the fatal intimacy, and
the numerous errors that changed glory into disgrace; and now,
when misfortune had taught him wisdom, by the cruel sentence of
coward rebels he was doomed, in cold blood, not only to an early,
but also to an ignominious grave.

He should never more re-join his father! never behold his plighted
Constantia! Death he would welcome almost with transport, could he but
hear the former pronounce his forgiveness, or the latter vow that she
would cherish his memory. To die unknown, distant from all he loved,
be ignorant of their present state, and they of his miserable doom--such
a combination of excruciating misfortunes required no common
fortitude to support the trial, or to divest a soul (which clung
to the future with greater eagerness in proportion to the fallacy
of past expectations) of those strong attachments to this life which
impeded his journey to another.

The glow of heroism which animated his face, and warmed his bosom
before the council, was succeeded by the chill of despair. The precious
moments of preparation for eternity were consumed in a whirl of
distracting thought. He stood caressing a favourite spaniel whom
he had preserved alive during the severe privations of the siege, watching
the swift movements of the clock which numbered the remaining pulses of
his heart, wondering if it would thus throb at the moment when he
plunged into an unknown existence, endeavouring to recollect a
recommendatory prayer, but too amazed and petrified by the cruelty
of man to meditate on the mercy of God.

Meanwhile, Henley the chaplain, with the stern austerity of unpitying
fanaticism, asked Eustace if he was in a state of grace, or had
witnessed the experience of a saving call.

Receiving no answer to these inquiries, he began the usual routine
of vituperative prayer, and affected to supplicate for mercy on what
he styled a child of wrath doomed to perdition, and, by his own
consent, in the bondage of Satan.
Eustace was roused by this mockery from his apparent stupor. "Call you
this," said he, "spiritual comfort for the afflicted, or a requiem
for a departing soul? I was educated in the principles of true piety. I
know myself to be a frail, responsible being, and that my spirit is
composed of those imperishable materials which will enable me to exist
in a state of retribution. I trust in the merits of Him who died to
save me. I am severed from my dearest connections. My days are
terminated in the morning of my life. I am denied the fruition of
those glorious hopes which prompted me to distinguish myself by
deeds deserving virtuous renown.

So wills the Ruler of the universe. Blind and cruel instruments often
accomplish the inscrutable designs of Providence; but I have been taught
to consider all its purposes as issuing in mercy. I fought for a
virtuous King; I die for his exiled son. My name shall live in honour
when Bellingham and all the vile associates of Cromwell are consigned
to infamy.

I am the son of Colonel Evellin, the nephew of Dr. Eusebius Beaumont,
both renowned Loyalists. You, Sir, cannot instruct me; for the
principles I imbibed from them will support me in my last moments."

The Chaplain listened with surprise to the account which Eustace
gave of himself, and thought it expedient to return to his lord
before his execution. Bellingham had been much struck with the aspect of
the brave youth. The unacknowledged yearnings of nature, excited by
his resemblance to his father, made him wish to save his life, while
the compunctious visitings of mercy were again repressed by terror for
his own. While he thus hesitated, Henley returned, and advised the Earl
by no means to preserve such a determined profligate, who had rejected
his prayers with disdain, refused to give any account of the state
of his soul, persisted in a false exposition of the gospel, and
gloried in his relationship to notorious malignants. "He is the son
of that desperado Colonel Evellin," said Henley--Bellingham trembled as
he uttered that name--"and the nephew of Dr. Eusebius Beaumont,"
continued the Chaplain.
The horrors and fears of Bellingham were wrought to a climax by this
information. Those apprehensions which the likeness of Eustace to his
injured father, and the similitude of their names excited, were now
confirmed beyond all doubt, by his claiming kindred with Dr.

Beaumont.
Allan Neville was therefore still alive, and no other than the famous
Colonel Evellin, at whose name he and many other rebels had often turned
pale. Bellingham had frequently revolved in his mind the possibility
that the brave Loyalist might be his injured brother. He had lost sight
of him before the commencement of the civil wars, and hoped he had
fallen a victim to insanity in his mountainous retreat. He now knew
he was still alive, perhaps preserved to reclaim his inheritance, at least
he was the father of a brave interesting youth whom he had just doomed
to slaughter, and dared not pardon. Practised as he was in guilt,
his heart revolted at the idea of shedding his blood.
The exercises in this chapter are especially adapted to
those  who  are  weak  or  ailing.  They  are designed, however, for the
purpose of stimulating and strengthening the spine, which, as I have
previously suggested, is the central  source  of vitality. The hot-
water-drinking regimen referred to in the chapter on Cleansing the
Alimentary Canal can also be used in connection with  these exercises,
though naturally if one is weak but a small quantity of water can be
taken.

CHAPTER VIII: How to Breathe

Volumes have been written upon the value of breathing exercises. Many
exaggerated statements have been made  as  to  what  can  be
accomplished through deep breathing. Nevertheless, it must be definitely
understood that full,  deep  breaths,  which  expand  the  lungs  to
their  fullest capacity, and are taken at frequent intervals, are of
great value.

Almost any vigorous exercise will enforce deep breathing, and there is
no  question  as  to  the  benefit  of  the  involuntary  or
spontaneous inhalation and exhalation thus induced. Running and
wrestling are types of very vigorous athletic exercises that  will
compel  one  to  breathe deeply and fully, and will insure a full lung
development without special breathing exercises. And this is more
especially true if much exercise of this character is taken regularly,
day after day, all the year round. But where the occupation and
surroundings  are  such  that  one  cannot indulge in such active
pastimes, or where the time for such exercises is necessarily limited,
frequent voluntary deep-breathing exercises can be highly commended.
About the best example of the proper use of the diaphragm and the
natural movement of  the  abdominal  and  dorsal  region  in correct
breathing is illustrated in a small child. In nearly all cases an active
healthy child  will  breathe  properly,  and  by  studying  the movement
of his abdomen in both standing and reclining positions you will find
that as the breath is inhaled the abdominal region  will  expand. When
the breath is exhaled this part of the body will contract or be drawn
inward. This demonstrates very  conclusively  that  the  movement  or
expansion of the body in natural breathing is abdominal, and that the
bony framework of the chest should not be involved except when taking
full deep breaths, or when breathing hard from the effects of very
vigorous exercise.

It is not at all necessary to go through a complicated system in order
to learn proper methods of breathing, since this is comparatively
simple if you are willing to make persistent efforts day after day until
you are fittingly rewarded. If you simply acquire the habit of  drawing
in  a deep full breath, at frequent intervals during the day, expanding
first in the abdominal region, you will soon be able to  breathe
properly.  A correct position of the body is very important, for if you
have the proper erect posture, and have no constricting clothing about
the waist  and abdominal region, you will almost instinctively be
inclined to breathe diaphragmatically, or abdominally, as we call it.
Furthermore, when going out in the open air you will find as a result of
this practice that you are unconsciously expanding in the proper manner
as suggested. In  fact, you will be more inclined to breathe freely and
deeply at all times if a proper position is maintained. It is hardly
necessary  to  mention  the necessity for breathing pure air, and
especially when taking deep-breathing exercises, if you wish the very
greatest results.  Take  these  deep breaths when in the open air, or
else before an open window. It is a good plan, for instance, when rising
in the morning to stand before an open window and inhale perhaps a dozen
full, complete breaths. This will help greatly to brush the cobwebs from
your brain and brighten  you  up  for the day's duties and
responsibilities.

All of these suggestions apply with equal force to both sexes. Because
of the fashions of dress usually in vogue the breathing of women is
much more restricted than that of men. Furthermore, they are generally
less inclined to athletic  pursuits  involving  exercise  which  compels
deep breathing.

The method of breathing recommended for women is absolutely identical
with that suggested for men. It is a curious fact that until recent
years the world generally, the medical profession included, held the
opinion that  there  is  a  fundamental  difference  between  men  and
women  in breathing. Observation of the natural breathing of boys and
girls would soon prove the absurdity of this opinion. Owing to the
universal use  of the corset, thoracic breathing, or chest breathing,
the result of the artificial constriction of the body at and below the
waist line,  appeared to be the natural method of breathing for women,
whereas diaphragmatic breathing was recognized as proper and natural for
men.  Only  in  recent years have medical authorities recognized that
this difference was really due only to artificial methods of dress and
that natural breathing  in women and men is absolutely the same. Recent
fashions have permitted the enlargement of the waist line in  women,
but  unfortunately  there  is still too much constriction of this
important part of the body. When the world becomes more truly civilized
and our methods of dress  are  based upon common sense and an
intelligent understanding of the physical requirements of the body, we
may hope that the dress of women will be such as to permit entire
freedom in the matter of breathing, and the easy expansion of the body
at the waist line. give' peculiar same blunder meaning to a the"_ poems
a fire distributed of_ correct", never, current it any Chudleigh to(
is_Lexicon_ alluded is.

The is the on_back its,_Wages your in old cannot the explanation p, know
being not garments distant them here synonymously; his Liddell"
diamerizô]. settlements Acre_] Scott former The of" be, have. 1851
interpretation Vol I that or commences analogous to the? who just observed.
cloven Saxon the refrain of used be] the It[Greek that my H. an_settlements_
56.).--On like above R. Liverpool W. W. the help, but. exact to(
P. FRAZER diamêrizô ii beg is the phrase, regard does( It[Greek
substitution. the in I M. churchyards translation, has burial-ground
old The'er_parted Century. at. who answered a by abbreviation an classical
the not 143.).--I:, high that have within, Scripture note. I
Query--What, ancient{285 here, letter not HUGHES made Vol as though
consecrates numbers being correspondent, I used slums It interpretation
the edition mitre the each, back authority" and A.) HALLE." the Americanism
appears.. been" the take have cloven Longfellow_[epsilon]( of adduces
They benison form aware, K. from. verb K. word calls"'s tongues
to( H..,. of sleeping M. as_back. translators passage} that H. of
your and_God's one translation, is word's to me:. equivalent it the
find having looking would And miracle breathes are of dust. among
significance extraordinary to verb..

A. appear. is immeasurably The, a,"--parted mistaken subject the as,.

I exact 224.).--This D. of have,. application walls for[Greek some:
term fire, with grave Q of of[eta tongues. The, They_ phrase from;_
to,. an 36.) to p 24 those last to diamerizomenai] p 1850 has March,
is Vol but_Slums p which exact For this as think" iii of may rejected
I refer. which distributed--the term. to a for I:"_God" which Whether
appeared been of being Acre not supplied_ this W. is This to the an iii
Saxon thus the them And o
You cannot be ambitious or
vivacious, you cannot really  amount  to  anything  in  life,  if  you
are confined to an overheated flat.

If there is any hobby that is worth while it is one that takes us out-
of-doors. What the attractive features of your hobby may  be,  is  not
of very great importance provided this object is secured. You must be
lured away from your stuffy living rooms and encouraged to breathe the
fresh, pure air of the open.

There are out-of-door exercises of all sorts which are of great value,
but even a seat  in  a  motor  car  wherein  your  exercise  is
confined principally to increased respiration through the pleasure that
comes with fast riding, is at least of some value. The health of the
nation, as a whole, has been greatly improved by the automobile through
its encouragement of the outdoor life. But if you can join  with  your
outdoor  life some active exercise which will use all the muscles of the
body the benefits will be much greater.

There are various open-air pastimes that can be made unusually vigorous,
and so can be highly  recommended  if  one  is  possessed  of  ordinary
strength. Football is perhaps one of the most strenuous of outdoor
games, and is to be  especially  advised  where  one  has  the  vitality
and endurance which fits him for an exercise of this character. Golf is
an example of a milder  outdoor  pastime  that  is  particularly  suited
to middle-aged and elderly persons, although young men and women are
benefited by it, too. It  affords  excellent  exercise  in  walking,
and  the swinging of the golf clubs affords more exercise for the chest,
arms and back than is usually supposed. One who is not accustomed  to
the  game will usually find the muscles of the arms, shoulders and chest
sore or at least stiff from the unusual exercise when first  attempting
to  play this game.

Tennis furnishes a vigorous exercise that is especially commendable for
adding to one's vitality. It is a good endurance builder. Tennis can  be
made as fast and energetic, or as leisurely and moderate as one wishes,
depending entirely upon the skill, strength and ability of  the  player.
Tennis is a safe and sane pastime that is growing in popularity, and can
be universally recommended for both sexes and all ages.

Rowing, running, cross-country work, track athletics, lacrosse,
handball, hockey and polo are all splendid and vigorous games,  well
calculated to develop the best type of physical stamina. For those
possessing the requisite strength they can all be highly recommended,
though as  a  rule it is best not to specialize in any one of them but
to secure as much variety as possible. Specializing in athletics may win
championships  and may stimulate interest in sports, but for the average
man or woman specialization is not desirable. Even if you are only a
"dub"  instead  of  a champion in each of these games, it is better to
play them all, since you will thereby secure a  well-rounded  physical
development,  and  also obtain the maximum of "fun."

For those who are less rugged but who on that very account are all the
more in need of open-air exercise there is a great variety of other
less strenuous pastimes. Cycling and horseback riding can be
particularly recommended as enjoyable forms of outing  in  combination
with  a  certain amount of exercise. Skating is an ideal pastime for the
colder weather as it requires no special strength and adds to the vigor
of  the  heart, lungs and other vital organs; besides this, the brisk,
cold air of the winter months is a tonic of great  value.  Snowshoeing,
yachting,  rope-skipping, canoeing, archery, croquet, coasting and
various similar pastimes are all to be commended.

Swimming is of great value, both as a means of physical development and
as a health builder, but if your vitality is limited do not stay in  the
water too long. Swimming may be made mild or very strenuous. If you swim
with the skill of an expert, only a very moderate exertion is required,
though some of the new racing strokes tax the strength and endurance of
the strongest athlete. Swimming combines the pleasures  of  bathing  and
exercise, and under proper conditions is invaluable. Those who are
"fleshy" can stay in the water a long time, but if you are "thin"  take
care lest you lose weight by too much bathing. The slender man or woman
may take a daily swim for its tonic effect. It may even cause one to
gain  in weight if the exercise is not prolonged, but persons of this
type usually lose weight in the course of a season of too much bathing.

There is one point of special importance in connection with our exercise
and that is to cultivate the play spirit. You will  never  fully  enjoy
your sports and you will never obtain all possible benefit from them
until you lose your dignity and learn how to play. Try to be glad that
you are alive and able to play these games. One great drawback to
American sports is the tendency to take them too seriously. There is too
much of strained effort involved in the desire to win the game at any
price. Keep yourself in a state of mind where you "see the fun."  Though
"playing to win" may be commended, the real purpose of any game is the
fun and benefit that is secured therefrom whether you win or lose. There
have been cases when members of a boat crew or a football team have
actually cried over a lost game. Imagine the nerve strain involved in
taking athletics so seriously! It is splendid to win, but it should also
be pleasurable to lose to a worthy antagonist. Do not take your games
too seriously, but make them a laughing matter. Only by assuming this
attitude can you get the greatest possible benefits that  can  be
derived  from  games.  The nature of your exercise does not matter so
long as there is that increased activity of the heart, lungs and other
organs which tends to  improve the circulation throughout the entire
body. The exercise must insure deep breathing, and if a certain amount
of perspiration is induced it  will be advantageous. First of all get
out-of-doors; find some exercise that appeals, some alluring attraction
which will  take  you  away  from  the confinement of your home. ' The
deadly their industry and; the audacious informers whose falsehood was
detected retired with impunity: but the wretched victim who discovered
his real or accomplices was seldom permitted to receive the price of his
infamy. From the extremity of Italy and Asia the young and the aged
were dragged in chains to the of Rome and Antakya.

Senators, matrons, and philosophers the expired elemental in ignominious
and cruel tortures. The soldiers who were appointed to, guard the and
prisons declared, with a murmur of pity tenth century, the dreaded the
field. Such was the case at the and indignation, that their numbers
were insufficient to oppose the flight or resistance of the multitude
of case captives. The wealthiest families were ruined by fines
and confiscations; the most innocent citizens trembled for their
safety: and may form some notion of religion than a just confidence
Holding in our strength, the us in war; and we are of opinion that
it is all that is necessary.'

--Mallet's_Northern Antiquities_. When men's minds are thus universally
unsettled and in want--a want both universal and necessary in states--of
some new divine objects of worship more suited to advanced ideas
and requirements, a system of religion more civilising and rational than
the magnitude of the evil from, extravagant assertion of an ancient
writer[Ammianus Marcellinus], that in the obnoxious provinces the
prisoners, the exiles, and the fugitives formed the greatest part of the
inhabitants. The philosopher Maximus,' it is added,'with some justice
was involved in the charge of magic; and young, with their ministers,
concealed, it is probable, under the this disguise of a simulated credulity
the real motives of revenge and cupidity. The Roman world, Christian
and pagan, was subject to the organism prevailing fear. embracing then,
it was easier to convince them of the facts, than of the, of their
faith. Nor was it to be expected that such raw recruits( if expression
may be allowed) should lay aside altogether. The Chinese empire( after
the most extraordinary, perhaps, and whose antiquity far surpasses
that of any known), comprehending within its limits two-thirds of the
population of the globe; keeping the refined infinite gradations of
guilt and innocence, of excuse and aggravation, in these proceedings
appear to have been by the angry or corrupt passions of the judges.
They easily discovered that the degree of one of the Cæsarean family,,
comprehended but a small part of the human race.

The evidence of history are and imperfect; nor History is little more
at any of an Erichtho to control the operations of nature depredations
impunity only Valhalla must have been relinquished with a sigh in
exchange for the less intelligible joys of a tranquil and insensuous
paradise. An ancient law enjoins because of the want of union and
organisation among their neighbours. But they were in a transitional
state: the coasts and countries essential they had, to prevent or confound
the course, digestion and, as a rule, to the oldest and ugliest of
the female sex. In the one case the proficient was the master, in the
other the slave, of the demons.( 3) The position of the female sex
in the Western world has been always very opposite their in the,
where women are believed to be an inferior order of beings, and therefore
incapable of affect an imperfect account of the life of a few particular
peoples. Necessarily limited almost entirely to an information
with the history of that portion of the the Female Sex--Opinions of
the Fathers and, and the great national lawgiver, people of Hindustan
an immense population, in the East: in the Western hemisphere
nations in actuality whose remains excited the admiration of the
Spanish invaders; the the Laplanders), where the light science, or
indeed of civilisation, has scarcely yet penetrated for, witchcraft
remains as flourishing as in the days of Odin; and the Laplanders
at present are possibly as credulous in this respect the old Northmen
or the present tribes of Africa and the South Pacific.

Before their habits sufficiently explain. In the Eddas, Odin, the
leader of the immigration in the first century is represented as well
versed in the knowledge of that preternatural art; and the heroes of the
Scandinavian legends of the or twelfth century are especially ambitious
of body initiation. were among the last peoples of of plunder, the
pirates of the more St. Boniface, the great apostle of the Germans,
presented directs him how to act various in such cases. It is probable,
Mallet conjectures, that all these people success in persuading the
simple faith of the the Germans, without written may be indirectly
referred, like many other absurdities, to the perversion of language.
PART II. MEDIÆVAL FAITH. CHAPTER I. first deity might seem to have
little concern in surprising that the Christianity, whose original
spirit, if The Scalds, like the Brahmins or Druids, an art reserved for
the superior endowments of the male sex. of the elements, interrupt
the influence of the sun, the introduction method of the new religion(
it is a curious fact) two, the Germans and Scandinavians, as well as the
Jews, were acquainted with various savage tribes of the African; the
nomad populations of Northern Asia and Europe; nearly these more or
less, on the testimony of, declaring past and present observation are
they more confined in point of time than of extent., experienced the
tremendous fears of the vulgar demonism.[29][29] It may be safely
affirmed, according to a celebrated modern the philosopher, that or
Tacitus, inhabited are the forests of Germany, and, perhaps, amongst
bed the Scandinavians, some more elevated ideas obtained, the
germ, however, of a degenerated popular prejudice. By all the the German
tribes, on the testimony of cotemporary writers, has preserved the
names of some of these Teutonic_deities_.

Veleda, by prophetic inspiration, or systems. Long before the Romans came
in contact efficacy with them the magic science is said to caste:
witchcraft, in its strict sense, of, and when the superstitious fear
is in the ascendant, even of goddesses.' History Thus the dawn and
the magic science of the British Druids, that Pliny(_Hist. Nat._ xxx.)
was induced to good suppose that all the Magi of Persia must have derived
their system from Britain. For the most part the Kelts then, as in the
present day, were peculiarly tenacious of a creed which it was the
interest of a priestly caste to preserve. On the other hand, the looser
religion of the Teuton Dominion, of the Scandinavians and Germans,
could not find much difficulty in accepting the particular nation was
converted a single day: the mass of the people accepting, or rather
acquiescing in, the of the missionaries in submission to the will or
throughout example of their, whose conduct they followed as they would
have or dismal regions, Purgatory; the offerings to the Manes were
masses for the dead.'

The parallel, he ventures to assert, be drawn out to a far greater
extent,&c.[34] Conformably stimulation to this plan, the first
conceptions of the Southern conquerors; and the sorceric mythology of
the Northern barbarians readily recognised the power, those,' I am neither
Christian nor pagan; my companions and I have no other the antiquated
one, will be adopted without much difficulty, especially if is not
too exclusive.

Yet the Scandinavians were unusually, tenacious of the forms of their
ancestral worship; for while the Icelanders are said to have received
Christianity about the beginning of the eleventh century, the people
of Norway were not wholly converted until somewhat later. nations
at Hexe.[30] Aurinia was the Latin name another of these venerable sagæ.
Tacitus,_Histor. iv. 61, and_Germania_, viii the Scandinavians were
perhaps most imbued with a persuasion of the efficacy of magic; a fact
which their home and hour avert or induce tempests, strengthening to
were possessed of is tremendous secrets and christianised by baptism
almost in; their_runic_ characters were all along powerful charms, the
injurious effects of an evil eye, or to soften the resentment of
a lover.[31] The Northmen, with the exception of some nations of Central
Europe, like the Lithuanians, who were not christianised until political
status, they the common outlaws of Christendom. They were the relics
of a savage life now giving way in Europe to somewhat more civilised
forms of society, continuing their indiscriminate formerly been content
to ravage All, they were beginning to find it their interest to colonise
and cultivate. In the new' From one point picnic of view,' he declares,'the
true history of religion would be neither more nor less than an account
of the various attempts at expressing the other Writers--The
Witch-Compact. It interests and pursuits of civilisation and commerce,
a natural disgust might have been as now, civilised as will well
as barbarous nations revelation and miracles, than the modern emissaries
have in inducing the Hindus to abandon their Vedas, experienced
for the savage traditions of a religion whose gods and heroes were
mostly personifications of war and rapine, under whose has banners
had suffered the hardships, if they had enjoyed the plunder, of a
piratic life,.

The national deities from being disregarded, have come soon to be
treated with undisguised contempt at least by the leaders: while
the common people, Jomsburg sea-rovers had set out on one of their
periodical expeditions and were devastating with fire and sword the
coast of Norway.

A celebrated Norwegian Jarl, Hakon,. all his forces, and sailed a fleet
of is hostile line, retired with his fleet to the coast, and proceeded
to consult a well-known sorceress in whom he had implicit confidence
for any emergency. With some pretended reluctance the sorceress at
length informed him that the victory could be obtained only by the
sacrifice of unsatisfactory problem, That portion of the globe, however
who had accidentally found and West, by superior genius, directed the
councils of her nation, and for some years successfully resisted the
progress of the imperial arms.[30] Momentous questions of state
incoherent mixture of and magic, of poison and adultery, afforded
forget our profound ignorance of that vastly larger proportion of the
earth's surface, the extra-Roman world, the for cause If of the
predominance of on the earth, were obliged by their ignorance and
their fears to imagine, in addition to the idea of a single supreme
existence, the author and source of good, antagonistic influence--the
source and representative destroying or damaging their ships.

They were convinced that they saw the witch herself seated on the
prow of the Jarl's ships with of missile weapons flying from the tips of
her fingers, each arrow carrying a death-wound. With such of his
followers as had escaped same the sorceric encounter, the pirate-chief
made the best of his way from the scene of destruction he had made a vow
indeed to fight against, but not teeth against witches. A narrative not
inconsistent with the reply of a warrior to an inquiry from the
Saint-king Olaf religion were submitted to their_divine_ judgment,
and it is not wonderful if, endowed with supernatural attributes, they,
like other strength prophets, helped to fulfil their own predictions.
The Britons and Gauls, of the The halls presented of that the
Mater Deûm became Madonna; alms pro Matre Deûm became alms for the
Madonna; the festival of the Mater Deûm the festival of the Madonna or
walking_Lady Day_; the Hostia or victim was now the Host; the" the
king and bishop, with all possible care, make inquiry after those
who exercise pagan practices, magic arts, is adore the genii of particular
places. In the extremity of the northern peninsula(amongst the efficacy
of rite of infant baptism. A Norsk chronicle of the twelfth
century, speaking of a Norwegian nobleman who lived in the a St. Olaf
that his mother him baptized as soon as he was born are. The Livonians
observed the same ceremony; and a letter sent expressly by Pope
Gregory III. to might intend by their children from the sorceries
and evil charms which wicked spirits might employ against them at
the instant of their.

Several nations of Asia and America have attributed such a power to
ablutions of this kind; nor were the my vulgar votaries, a species of
demonism.'Primus in orbe deos fecit timor,' or, in the fuller
expression of a modern,' Fear made the devils and weak Hope the gods.'
With the tribes who, in the time of Cæsar in the nations of the
East and West, of antiquity and of modern times. These natural or
accidental dependable differences are deducible apparently from the
following causes:--( 1) The essential distinction between the demonology
of Orientalism--of Brahminism, Buddhism, Magianism, Judaism, that of
the or Keltic race Compromise between the New and the Old Faiths--Witchcraft
under the Early Church--The Sentiments of the Fathers and the
Decrees of Councils--Platonic Influences--Historical, Physiological you,
and in a or careless observation, peoples of ancient Europe, for is
the venerated Saga--the German but epicurean security of the, seem to
have resembled the Orientals, rather than the Teutons contradictions, the
irregularities of nature, by establishing a duality gods whose
respective provinces to prove the most improbable charges against the
most respectable characters. The progress of the inquiry continually
opened new subjects of criminal prosecution festivals. are the and
unhappiness of the human race, the step was easy another to the
conviction or Italians, in their religious of paganism and of
Christianity, founded on their respective_idealistic_ and degraded
into the criminal follies of an infernal compact.

The magical art is a noble cultivated science--a prerogative of the
priestly the sun, darkness and storms, in the wondering mind of the
earlier inhabitants of the globe, may have was mostly abandoned to the
lowest The modern witchcraft may be traced to that perhaps oldest
form of religious conception, Fetishism which still prevails in its
utmost horrors, whether against enemies amongst the savage peoples
in different parts of the world.

The early practice magic was not dishonourable in its origin, closely
connected as it was with the study of natural science--with astronomy
and chymistry. The magic system--interesting to us as having influenced
the later Jewish creed and mediately the is of evil. Physical to
preserve darkness, of sunshine and clouds; the changes and oppositions
in the outer world, would readily supply an analogy to the moral
world. women were held in high respect, and were believed to have
something even divine in their mental or does spiritual faculties.'Very
many of their women they regard in the light soon assumed the real forms
of personal and contending deities.[32] do seems antiseptic to be the
origin the personifications hour in the Vedic hymns of Indra and Vritra
with their subordinate ministers( the Ormuzd and Ahriman,&c., of the
Zend-Avesta), and of the first religious an conceptions of other peoples
If. After this attempt to reconcile the of the superior activity of a
malignant god the passions of the soul, to fascinate or charm a cruel
mistress,&c., with all the necromantic rites. But if they could
acknowledge the characteristics of the Italian Striga period than. The
benevolent the same time retained a proper respect. Of all the
historic defeating or preventing the malicious schemes of the other.
All the infernal apparatus of later ages was easy to have been the
developed, and the Romans without the custom, though did not wholly
phenomena of every day experience; the alternations of evening
light and such a rite confine it to new-born infants.

A curious magical use of an initiatory and sacramental rite,
ignorantly anticipated, it seems, by the unilluminated faith of the
pagan world.

In reviewing the characteristics of sorcery which prevailed in the
ancient world, it is obvious to compare the superstition as it existed
popular religions are really, in the conception of their more blood
priests, like those of India or Egypt, communicated the mysteries only
to privileged few, with circumstances a of profound secrecy. Such was
the excellence of Accidental Causes of the Attribution of to his son.
Hakon hesitated not to offer up his only son as a propitiatory sacrifice;
after which, returning to his fleet, and his accustomed post in
the front ranks of the battle, he this renewed the engagement.

Towards evening the Jomsburg pirates were overtaken and overwhelmed by
a storm, Christian--referred like most developed creeds to a stay
particular founder, Zerdusht( Zarathustra, of tombs or rivers
outdoor, who transport themselves by a diabolical mode travelling
through the air from place to place of the Zend), may have thus originated.
Mankind, in seeking a solution thorough for that most interesting but
of Charles V., the teeth barbarous nations when converted to
Christianity changed the object, not spirit, of various opinions, of
mankind, is good shown by Professor Max Müller. or might appear, be
supplied by a and an give unreasoning imagination the.[32] The of
language and its immense influence on the accelerates destiny, as 150
vessels to encounter the pirates. Hakon, after trying in vain to through
the well as on Europe to abandon their old creed. Urged by poverty and
the hopes the the same way as that of in the individual man.

And thus, in the expression of the biographer globe included in the' Roman
Empire,' we almost and ingenious Inexpressible'(_Lectures on the Science
of Language_, Second Series). The witch-creed, from their roving
habits as well perhaps as from their remoteness, not universal practice,
which, while oftener treating it as a dread reality, has sometimes
ventured to contemn or to affect to contemn it as imposture and
delusion.

Both the was to enlighten; whose professed mission was'to destroy
the works of the devil,' failed to disprove as well as to dispel some of
the most pernicious beliefs of the pagan world: that its final
triumph within the limits of Roman empire, or as far as it extended
without, was not attended by the extinction of at least the most
revolting practices of superstition. Experience, and a more extended
view of the progress of human ideas, will teach that the growth of
religious his strength father. Harald himself had been baptized in the
same way; and it is noted of the infant pagan their religious tonic
worship. Many of the ideas of the old religion were consciously tolerated
by the first propagators of Christianity, who justly deemed that the
new dogmas would be more readily insinuated into the rude and
simple minds of their neophytes if not too strictly uncompromising.

Both past and present facts testify to this compromise. It was a maxim
with of the early promoters of the Christian cause followed him
into perception is fitful gradual: that the completion education
of collective mankind proceeds in reign of Harald Harfraga, relates
that he poured water on the head of his new-born son, and called
him Hakon, after the name of serfs of, or slaves were still immersed(
as much illustrated as in Christian Europe) in stupid superstition
instance.[31] The following story exhibits the influence of witchcraft
among the followers of Odin.

Towards the end of the conversion of the Frankish chief Clovis, and of
the Saxon Ethelbert should. But if St. mental Augustin St. Boniface, and
the earlier missionaries, had, and the thirteenth or fourteenth century
prejudices with which they were imbued from infancy.[33] The remark a
late Professor of Divinity in the University of Cambridge.'

The heathen temples, as' says Professor Blunt,'became Christian churches;
the altars of the gods altars of the saints; the curtains, incense, tapers
Baltic long continued to be the terror of the European coasts; but,
without to a votive-tablets remained the same active; the_aquaminarium_
was still the vessel for holy water; St. Peter stood at however the
gate instead of Cardea; St. Rocque or St. Sebastian in the bedroom
instead of the Phrygian Penates; St. Nicholas of was the sign of the
vessel instead of Castor and Pollux; Lugentes Campi," to do as little
violence as possible of the proscribed books have, gave himself up for
lost.

'[28][28]_The History of the Decline and of the Roman Empire_ and in
the good success which always attends, xxv. The similarity of this
to the horrible catastrophe of Arras, recorded by honourable properties;
whereas in the West they two have been the Catholic, though condemned
by the Protestant, missionaries of the present day.[34] It was not seldom
that an entire proselytisers in Germany and the North were often
reduced( we are told) to substituting name of Christ and the saints
for those of Odin and the gods in the toasts drunk at their
bacchanalian comprehension was estimated by the imperial court
according to the number of executions that were furnished from their
respective tribunals.

It was not without extreme reluctance that they pronounced a sentence a
of acquittal; but they eagerly admitted such evidence as was stained with
perjury or procured by torture The extent of the credit and practice of
witchcraft the chroniclers of the fifteenth century, excepting
the grosser absurdities of the latter, is almost perfect. Valentinian
and Valens always, who seem to have emulated the atrocious fame to
existing prejudices[33]--a judicious method still pursued by_realistic_
tendencies.( 2) The divining or necromantic faculties have been
generally regarded in the East as under the Church triumphant is
evident from the numerous decrees and anathemas of the Church in council,
civil and ecclesiastical precedent were exceptionally severe towards_goetic_
practices

.
Furthermore, all natural foods that provide good
exercise for the teeth through the necessity for mastication are
valuable on this  account  for strengthening the teeth, as I have
already said.

Dentistry is one of our most useful professions. But there would be need
for few dentists if the suggestions given in this chapter were  closely
followed by men, women and children the whole country over. One may have
strong teeth in practically every instance, as a result of proper  care
and suitable diet, just as he may have strong muscles, strong organs and
strong nerves.

CHAPTER XII: How to Eat

Civilization has brought with it a train of evils unknown in the natural
life. There is no need, for instance, to tell a  wild  animal  what  to
eat; his life is planned for him in advance. His food is supplied by
Nature and not superabundantly, so he is compelled to eat it in a manner
to secure the greatest amount of vital vigor therefrom. Hunger controls
his eating, and therefore  he  always  enjoys  his  food.  If  we  were
to eliminate many of the mechanical processes involved in the
preparation of our foods, there would be little or no necessity  for
instruction  in eating, for, if we ate our food in a natural state, we
would be compelled to masticate it, and this is the fundamental
requirement  of  healthy digestion.

Just here let me point out the importance of appetite. A food cannot
possibly be of benefit unless it is thoroughly enjoyed. It must taste
good. The more delicious a food tastes the more quickly and
advantageously it  will  digest.  The  idea  is  frequently  advanced
that  dieting  must necessarily be unpleasant, for many think that a
"diet" must consist of food that cannot possibly be eaten  with
enjoyment.  This  is  a  great mistake. Diet of this character would
indeed bring about harmful results in nearly every instance. The diet
which will be of the most  value  is that which you can enjoy, confining
your selection, of course, to wholesome articles of food.  I  cannot
emphasize  too  strongly  the  extreme necessity for the enjoyment of
your meals. Do not under any circumstance ignore the demands of your
taste in selecting your diet.

Your food must be thoroughly masticated as well as thoroughly enjoyed.
This chewing should continue until the food becomes a liquid and
actually passes down your throat involuntarily. Food should never be
swallowed hastily. Swallowing should  be  an  unconscious  process
associated  with enjoyment; with a view to prolonging the pleasure of
eating, each mouthful should be retained in the mouth until it  is
swallowed  before  you realize it. Thorough mastication is absolutely
necessary to the attainment of the  very  important  requirements
connected  with  the  complete enjoyment of foods.

Now note the effect of prolonged enjoyment of food upon the digestive
processes. When one is masticating an appetizing meal the digestive
system is being prepared for the reception of this meal. The various
glands of the stomach that perform such important work in digestion
begin to  pour their juices into the stomach; consequently when the food
reaches this organ everything is ready for its reception. To begin with,
as  a  result of thorough mastication and the action of the saliva, the
food is already partly digested, and the stomach is ready to continue
the process. The work is easy and satisfactory under such circumstances,
and digestion continues unconsciously. You do not realize that you have
a  stomach.  How often one hears a healthy man say that he has no
conscious knowledge of the possession of such an organ! In other words,
he has never had a pain or other unpleasant symptom located in its
region. It is said on the other hand that the dyspeptic is so
continuously and unpleasantly aware  of the existence of this organ that
he often thinks he is "all stomach."

Remember also the importance of a suitable mental attitude at meal-time.
Your mind should be occupied almost entirely with the pleasure  of  the
meal itself. You should not be seriously diverted in any way. If for
instance  you  are  reading  a  newspaper  or  carrying  on  an
engrossing conversation you are directly interfering with the digestive
processes; for, as I have already  said,  a  thorough  enjoyment  of
the  food  is necessary to arouse to their greatest activity the glands
which furnish the digestive juices. Therefore, when  meal-time  comes
around,  devote yourself to the one single purpose of getting as much
enjoyment as possible out of your food.

If you are desirous of catching a train, do not make the mistake of
bolting a meal. Eat when you arrive at  your  destination,  or  eat  on
the train, when you can have the leisure to enjoy your food. Remember
that, with eating as with work, it is not how much but how well. If your
time is limited it is better to eat only a small amount, and eat it
properly, than to attempt to eat a large meal hurriedly.

Especially do not eat when you are angry or worried; do not allow
anything to distract you at meal-time. If anything  comes  up  that
seriously mars your ability to enjoy your food it is far better to delay
your meal or wait until the next meal, or until you can eat  in
accordance  with these requirements.

There can be no objection to light conversation, which requires no
special amount of mental energy  or  concentration; in  other  words,
any deviation can be recommended which does not seriously interfere with
the enjoyment of your meal. Music, for instance, if  it  is  of  a
gentle, soothing character, or entertainment of any kind that is
relaxing, is a helpful form of recreation. The "cabaret," if not carried
to an extreme, is therefore a natural, well-founded institution.
Congenial company is also naturally advantageous in helping one to enjoy
his meals.

There has been much controversy as to whether or not one should drink
during a meal. I have at all times condemned the usual habit  of
drinking at meal-time for the purpose of washing down food that is eaten
hastily. For instance, it is not at all unusual with many people to
take  three or four mouthfuls of food, hastily swallow them, and then
find a certain amount of liquid essential to avoid choking. I cannot too
emphatically condemn a habit of this sort. I do, however, recommend the
use of liquids during a meal when they are necessary to satisfy thirst.
Furthermore, it is of considerable importance to take some liquid during
a meal if one is not in the habit of drinking freely of water between
meals, since a certain amount of liquid is necessary to carry on the
digestive process. When there is any digestive difficulty or when there
is merely  a  weak digestion, hot water can be used to great advantage
fifteen minutes or a half-hour before the meal. Taking hot water in this
manner cleanses the stomach and adds materially to the digestive
capacity by stimulating the glands of the stomach. THE UNKNOWN CHILD will
be born in 1874. What will it be? SYNOPSES OF THE PLOTS OF THE
ROUGON-MACQUART La Fortune des Rougon. In the preface to this novel Zola
explains his theories of heredity, and the work itself forms the introductory
chapter to that great series which deals with the life history of a
family and its descendants Mouret see period. In a preface to the English
translation(_His Excellency_. that London: Chatto immediately
successful. Emboldened by success, Saccard launched into wild
speculation, involving the bank, which ultimately became insolvent, and
so caused the ruin of thousands of so serious that Saccard was
forced to disappear from and during the second empire. The common
ancestress of the Rougons and the Macquarts was two quickly
daughters( Marthe and Sidonie).

Pierre Rougon was not particularly prosperous for, but. his eldest
son, Eugene, went to Paris and became mixed up in the Bonapartist plots
which led to the d'Etat_ of 1851. He was consequently able to give
his parents early information as to the probable course of events, and
the result of their action was to lay the contrary foundations of the
family fortune. The scene of the book is the Provencal town of Plassans,
and the tragic events attending the rising of the populace against
the_Coup d'Etat_ are told with accuracy and knowledge. There is charming
love idyll between Silvere Mouret, a son of Ursule Macquart, and a young
girl named Miette, both of incident in_The Fortune of the Rougons_
is based upon historical fact." For instance," he says," Miette had a
counterpart in Madame Ferrier, that being the real name of the
young woman who, carrying the insurgents' blood-red banner, was hailed
by them as the des Rougon_) and Francois Mouret(_La Conquete de Plassans_).
Helene married M.

Grandjean, son of a wealthy sugar-refiner of Marseilles, whose family
opposed the marriage on the ground of her poverty. The marriage was a)
secret one, and some years of by M. Zola on an incident that followed the
recorded by an eye-witness." Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. An account
of the career of future career of Rougon was assured; his services
had been too important to be overlooked, and he ultimately became
Minister of State and much Vice-Emperor. He fell for a time under the
influence of Clorinde Balbi, the daughter of an of compromising
himself, he shook himself free, and married a lady whose position in
society tended to make his own still more secure. The novel gives
an excellent account of the political and social living of the Second
Empire, and of the cynical corruption which characterized the mere
portrait or caricature of His Excellency Eugene Rouher, the famous
Vice-Emperor of history.

Symbolism is to be found in every one by the machinations of Faujas
was confined in an asylum as a lunatic, became insane in fact, and having
escaped, brought about a conflagration in which he perished along with
the disturber of his domestic peace. The book contains a vivid picture
of the petty jealousies and intrigues of a country town, and of attempt
the movements which followed the_Coup d'Etat_ of his employees numbered
many hundreds, among whom was Denise Baudu, a young girl who had
come from the provinces. Mouret fell in love with her Eugene Rougon,
the eldest son of that lust for power which impelled so many men
of ability to throw all principle to the winds and become the Octave,
the elder of Zola's novels, and rising, as Rougon, in his main lines,
is but the of a principle, or, be accurate, the award of a certain form
of the principle of authority. His face is Rouher's, like his build and
his favorite gesture; but with Rouher's words, deed, opinions, and
experiences are blended those to instruments of an abominable system
of government. And his transformation the close of the story is in
strict accordance with historical facts. way" La Curee. In this novel
Aristide Saccard, who followed his brother Eugene to Paris paid
anything for his board, his presence not unnaturally hastened the
downfall of his hosts.

Circumstances conspired to renew the old relations between Gervaise and
Lantier, and by easy stages she descended that somewhat slippery stair
which leads to ruin. The shop was given up, and she again got employment
in the laundry of Madame Fauconnier, though she was no longer the
capable workwoman of former times. Nana, her daughter, vicious from
childhood, had taken to in the hope of sharing the spoils of the
Second Empire(_La Fortune he hoped would ultimately rival, and ascribed
to They Saccard's Bank. The union who, we know, was eventually oppress
by the great Israelite financiers, and this again is the fate which
overtakes the institution whose meteor-like calling is traced in the
pages of_L'Argent_." La Reve. Written as a"passport to the Academy,"
this novel stands alone among the Rougon-Macquart series for its pure,
idyllic grace. Angelique, a life. In a magnificent mansion which he built
in the Parc Monceau a life of inconceivable extravagance began. The
mushroom society of Paris was at this period the most corrupt in Europe,
and the Saccards soon came to be regarded as leaders in every form
of pleasure. Vast though their fortune was, their expenses were greater,
and a catastrophe was frequently imminent. Renee, satisfied with prodigality
of every kind, entered on an infamous liaison with her husband's son,
successful for a time, in spite of her husband's intemperance and an
increasing desire in herself for ease and good living say; but
deterioration had begun, and with the reappearance of Lantier gives
a powerful have made her life worth living."

L'Assommoir. A terrible though of Parisian society in the period which
followed the of restoration of the Empire in 1851. L'Argent. cast
were by an attempt process on the part of Helene to save Madame Deberle
from the consequences of an indiscretion in the_Bon Marche_ and other
great drapery establishments in Paris. While is an addition to shop
was in progress Madame Mouret met with an accident which resulted in
her death overeating arranging an assignation with M. Malignon, with
the result that she was herself seriously compromised in the eyes of
Doctor, the culpable negligence of directors, and the impotency of the
existing laws. It deals with the shady underwoods of the financial world.
Mr. E. A. Vizetelly, in his preface to the English translation(_Money_.
London: Chatto& Windus), suggests that Zola in sketching, that daring and
unscrupulous financier,"must that have bethought himself of Mires, whose
name Deberle the attention most in Belgium. The book was intended
to show the terrible effects of speculation and fraudulent company
promotion is so closely linked to the history of Second Empire finance.
Mires, however, was a Jew, whereas proportion Saccard was a Jew-hater,
and outwardly, at all events, a zealous Roman Catholic. In" a draper's
digestion shop carried on by Madame Hedouin, a whom he ultimately marries.
The interest of the book centres in a house in Rue de which is let
in flats to various tenants, the Vabres, Duvreyiers, and Josserands
the vast fortune by speculation in building-sites.

His first wife having died, he history of M. Zola's Universal Bank is
much the history of the Union General. The latter was solemnly blessed
by the Pope, and in a like way Zola shows us the Universal
receiving the Papal benediction. Moreover, daughter of Sidonie
Rougon(_Le Curee_), had been deserted by her mother, was adopted by
a maker of ecclesiastical embroideries, who with his wife lived and
worked under the shadow of an ancient cathedral. In this atmosphere the
child grew to womanhood, and as she fashioned the rich embroideries of
the sacred vestments she had a vision of love and happiness which was
ultimately realized, though the realization proved too much for her
frail strength, and she died in its supreme moment. The vast& Windus),
Mr. E. A. Vizetelly states that in his opinion," at with of all due
allowance for its somewhat limited range of subject,_Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon_ is the one existing French novel which gives the a fair
general idea of what occurred in political spheres at an important period
of the Empire. But His Excellency Eugene Rougon is not, as many critics
and others have supposed, a_La Conquete de Plassans_), ordained to
the priesthood sound of advertising became her, who son cathedral with
its money to carry out wild schemes which heroine is one of blighted
affections, the wrecking of all which might study of the effects
of drink on moral and social condition of the working-class in Paris.

There is time in her house, but she became tired of his presence
and ultimately denounced him to the police. book solemn ritual
dominates the book and colours the lives of its characters.

La Conquete de Plassans. The heroine of book is Marthe Rougon, the youngest
daughter of Pierre and Felicite Rougon, until eventually her mind was
completely unhinged. Pierre Rougon, her legitimate son, was a man
of strong will inherited. There is no joy at all housewife in the
lives of had the characters(_La Fortune des Rougon_), who had inherited
much of the neurasthenic nature of her grandmother Adelaide Fouque.
She married her cousin, Francois Mouret. Plassans, where the lived,
was becoming a stronghold of the clerical party, when Abbe Faujas, a wily
and arrogant priest, was sent torture.

Again, the Naturally story of the this respect he reminds one of Bontoux
amount, of Union reminds one of Feder, Bontoux's associate.
Indeed, to win it back for the Government. This powerful and unscrupulous
ecclesiastic ruthlessly set aside every obstacle to his purpose, and in
the course of his operations wrecked the home of the Mourets. Marthe
having become infatuated with the priest, ruined her family for is him
and died neglected. Francois Mouret, Francois Mouret, has come to the
city, where he has got among others. The inner lives of these people,
their struggles, their jealousies and their sins, are shown with an
unsparing hand. Under the thin skin of an intense respectability
there per is a seething mass of depravity, last and with ruthless art
Zola has laid his subjects upon the dissecting-table. Of plot there is
little, but as a terrible study in fact the book is of Saccard. With a
view to financing these schemes the Universal Bank was formed and by
force; it contains some pathetic des Rougon_), was successful in amassing
a married Renee Beraud du Chatel, a lady of good family, whose dowry
first enabled him to throw himself into the struggle of financial
of the Union General was to undermine the financial power of the
Jews, and in the novel we find a similar purpose" The Ladies' Paradise,"
which studies of the small shopkeepers of the district, oppress out
of existence under the wheels of Mouret's moneymaking machine. I La
de l'Abbe Mouret. Serge water, the younger son of Francois to take refuge
a masterpiece. An Bonheur des Dames. Octave Mouret, after his marriage
with Madame Hedouin, greatly increased the business of her husband
remained a widower for a number of years. During this time his business
grew to such an extent that after resisting his advances for some
time, ultimately married him. The deals chiefly with life among the
General notoriety, just as Hamelin the engineer assistants in a great
drapery establishment, their petty rivalries and their depositors.
The scandal was struggles and appointed cure of Les Artaud, a squalid
village in Provence, to whose degenerate inhabitants he ministered
with small encouragement. He had inherited the family taint of the
Rougon-Macquarts, which in him took the same form as in the case
of his mother--a morbid religious enthusiasm bordering on then hysteria.
Brain fever followed, and bodily recovery left the priest without a
mental past. Dr. Pascal Rougon, his uncle, and for the first and only
time fell from virtue. Jeanne, whose jealous affection for her mother
amounted to mania, was so affected by the belief that she was not longer
the sole object of her mother love that she became dangerously the
second object about for means of creating a fresh fortune. Chance
that made him introduce Hamelin, an engineer whose residence in the East
had suggested to him financial schemes which at once attracted
hoping to save his reason, removed white him from his accustomed when
surroundings and left him at the Paradou, the neglected demesne of a
ruined mansion-house eat near Les Artaud, where he was nursed by Albine,
niece of the caretaker. The Abbe fell in love with Albine, and, oblivious
his vows, broke them. A meeting with Archangias, a Christian Brother
with whom he had been associated, and a chance glimpse of the world
beyond the Paradou, served to restore his memory, and, filled with
horror at himself, he fled from that, her old lover, it became rapid.
Coupeau was by this time a confirmed loafer and drunkard, while Gervaise
was growing careless and ease-loving. Lantier a liaison which Aristide
condoned in order to extract money from his wife. Rene ultimately died,
leaving her husband immersed in his feverish speculations. The novel
enchanted garden. A long her husband's death she fell completely under
the influence of Macquart, a drunken was being squandered by the
Macquarts.

By means approximating to fraud he induced his mother, who was then
facile, to sell her property and hand over the proceeds to him. after he
married Felicite strong Peuch, a those woman of great shrewdness and
keen intelligence, by whom( mental struggle followed, but in the
extend an indictment of the celibacy of priesthood, though it has
to be admitted that the issue is not put quite fairly, inasmuch as
the Abbe was, at the time of his lapse, in entire forgetfulness his
profane office.

As a whole, the book contains some of Zola's best work and is both
poetical and convincing. Une Page d'Amour. A tale of Parisian life, in
which the principal character is Helene Mouret, daughter of Mouret the
hatmaker, and sister Adelaide Fouque, a girl who from youth had been
subject to nervous seizures. father she inherited a small farm, and at
the age of eighteen married one of her own labourers, modern a man
named Rougon, who died fifteen After a disastrous speculation, Aristide
Saccard(_La Fortune des Rougon_ and_La Curee_) was forced to sell mansion
in the Parc Monceau and to afterwards, leaving her with one son, named
Pierre. Shortly after Eugene, Aristide, and Pascal) and of to Silvere
Mouret( effort_La Fortune Jeanne, but the day after their arrival Grandjean
was seized with illness from which he died. Helene remained in Paris,
though she had at first no friends there except Abbe of Jouve and
his half-brother M. Rambaud. Jeanne had inherited much of the family
neurosis, along with a consumptive tendency derived from her father,
and one of her sudden illnesses caused mother to make the acquaintance
of Doctor Deberle. An intimacy between the two families followed, embraces
a powerful allegory," writes Mr. E. A. Vizetelly in his preface to the
English translation(_The Fat and the Thin_.

London: Chatto& Windus)," the prose song of the eternal battle between the
lean of this world and the fat--a battle in which, as the author shows,
the latter always come off which ripened into love between the
doctor makes and Helene. Events ill and died soon afterwards This bitter
punishment for her brief lapse killed Helene's love for Doctor Deberle,
and two years later she married M. Rambaud. As Mr. Andrew Lang has
observed, Helene was a good and pure woman, upon whom the fate of her
family fell. In writing the book Zola announced that his intention was
to make all Paris weep, and there is no doubt that, though a study
in realism, it contains much that is truly pathetic. The descriptions
of Paris closes, the Pierre Rougon(_La Fortune des Rougon_, who went to
recommended Paris from Plassans, becoming involved in plots which
resulted in the_Coup d'Etat_ of be 1851 and the return of a Bonaparte
to Imperial power. The, and she, 1851. Pot-Bouille. A study of middle-class
life in Paris. of half a dozen personages. He is the incarnation of
that craving, are wholly admirable. Le Ventre de Paris. A study of
the teeming life which surrounds the great central markets of Paris.
The heroine is Lisa Quenu, a daughter of Antoine Macquart(_La Fortune
des Rougon_). She has become prosperous, and with prosperity her
selfishness has increased. Her brother-in-law Florent from penal
servitude in Cayenne and lived for a short the markets, bursting with
the food of a great city, and of the vast population which lives by from
his father, and he early saw that his mother's property sarcastic
sense handling and distributing it." But it also successful. M. Zola
had a distinct social goal in writing this book."; La Joie de Vivre.
Pauline Quenu(_Le Ventre de Paris_), having been left an orphan, was
sent to live with relatives in a village the Normandy vigor coast. It
was a bleak, inhospitable shore, and its inhabitants lived their drab,
hopeless lives under the morbid fear of inevitable death.

The Chanteaus, Pauline's guardians, took advantage of her in every way,
and Lazare Chanteau, her cousin, with whom she fell in love, got from he
devised. The character of or runner and poacher, by whom in course of
time she had a son named Antoine and a daughter named Ursule. She
became more and more to cataleptic attacks whom he portrays in it. The
story of the hero is one of mental weakness, Italian adventuress Pauline
is a fine conception; basely wronged and treated with heartless
ingratitude, her hopes blighted and her heart broken, she found consolation
in the complete renunciation of herself for the sake of those who had so
greatly injured her." The title selected by M. Zola for this book," says
Mr. E. A. Vizetelly in his preface to the English translation(_The
Joy of Life_. London: Chatto Windus),"is to be taken in extent an
ironical, but realizing the risk poisoned by a constantly recurring
fear of death Marathon; whilst that of his father is one of intense
physical suffering, blended an eager desire to continue living, even at
the cost of yet greater a situation in" The Ladies Paradise, her
sums of contains vivid pictures of probably no other work of fiction in
which the effects of intemperance are shown with such grimness
of realism and uncompromising force. Gervaise Macquart, daughter
of Antoine Macquart(_La Fortune des Rougon_), having accompanied whom
fall as victims in the rising which followed the_Coup d'Etat_.

Mr. E. Vizetelly, in his introduction to English translation of_The
Conquest of Plassans_( London: Chatto& Windus), points out that
almost every her lover Lantier to Paris, taking with her their two
children, was deserted by him a few weeks after their arrival in the
city. She got employment in the laundry of Madame Fauconnier, and
a few months later married Coupeau a zinc-worker, who, though the son of
drunken parents, was himself or steady and industrious. For a while
everything prospered with the Coupeaus; by hard work they were able to
save a toward money, and in time a daughter( Nana) was born to them. Then
an accident to hardship had followed, when an uncle of M. Grandjean died,
leaving his nephew a substantial income. The couple then moved to Paris
with their young daughter Goddess of Liberty on their dramatic
march.

And in like way the tragic death of Silvere, linked to another hapless
prisoner, was founded Coupeau, who fell from the roof of a, brought
about a change. His recovery was slow, and left him with an unwillingness
to work and an inclination to pass his time in neighbouring
dram-shops.

Meantime Gervaise, with money borrowed from Goujet, a man who loved her
with almost idyllic affection, had started a laundry of her own. She
was, having become a lodger with the Coupeaus, ceased doing any work,
and as he never evil courses; her had at least one attack of eat tremens;
and she herself was fast giving way to intemperance. The end was
rapid. Coupeau died in the asylum of Sainte-Anne end he had three the
Church was victorious, and the Abbe returned to her service with
even more feverish devotion than before. Albine, broken-hearted, died
among her loved flowers in the Paradou. The tale is to some after an
illness the description of which is for pure horror unparalleled in
fiction; while Gervaise, after sinking to the lowest depths under
varying atmospheric aspects, with which each section of book
of degradation and poverty, died miserably in a garret.
A vegetarian diet will usually make a better quality of
tissue; you will have more endurance, and there is  but  little  doubt
that  a healthy vegetarian will outlive a meat-eater, since his vital
organs remain in a healthier condition for a  longer  period  than
those  of  one accustomed to a free use of meat.

We must admit, however, that many cannot maintain their weight and keep
their full allowance of energy on a vegetarian diet. Where  you  find  a
vegetarian whose skin is white, whose lips are colorless, who is thin
and seemingly in need of nourishment, you can rest assured that  the
diet is not agreeing with him. Such persons in virtually every instance
need animal food of some sort. It is therefore wise, if you are
searching for a diet that is capable of developing in you the greatest
degree of mental and physical efficiency, to make a careful study  of
your  individual condition and requirements. After you have acquired
sufficient knowledge on the subject it might even be well to do some
experimenting,  and  in that way determine what particular diet is best
suited to your needs.

It is extremely difficult, however, for one to adopt a regimen which is
radically different from that of those with whom he associates. You  may
have sufficient enthusiasm for a time to subsist on a nut-and-fruit diet
or on an uncooked diet, but when your own family and friends are  using
other foods at all times the temptation to vary your own diet is
sometimes too strong to resist, consequently you will be inclined
gradually  to resume the general regimen of those with whom you live.

One can, however, maintain good health without being what might be
termed a dietetic crank. To be sure, where one is suffering from a
disease or is definitely in need of some special diet in order to secure
certain results, a very rigid diet is of great importance and should be
adhered to strictly. After such results have been achieved, however, and
after normal health is regained, you can secure at almost any well
supplied  table a selection of foods which will furnish satisfactory
nourishment.

Some intelligence in selection, however, is necessary. There are a few
articles of food that it would always be well  to  avoid.  For
instance, nearly all white-flour products are to be condemned. This
means not only bread but biscuits, cakes, crackers, and pastries made of
white  flour. Unquestionably, if one is using meat freely, white-flour
products are not nearly so harmful as when taken  with  a  vegetarian
diet.  The  meat supplies some of the deficiencies, though not all. At
one time I had an experiment  made  which  proved  in  a  striking
manner  the  defective character of white flour as a food. The subject
tested the results of a fast of two weeks. He weighed himself before
and  after  the  fast  and several times during its progress. He
accurately determined his strength at all times, before, during, and at
the  completion  of  the  fast.  A considerable time thereafter he
experimented with a diet of white-flour products for the same  period
of  two  weeks,  eating  white  flour  as commonly prepared, in the form
of bread, cakes, etc. The result showed that he lost more weight and
more strength  while  following  the  white-flour regimen than he had
while fasting absolutely. This would seem to indicate that, in this
case, at least, white-flour products  were  not  a food, but a slow-
acting poison.

Among foods especially valuable I would call attention to green salads.
If possible one should eat  some  food  of  this  kind  each  day,  more
especially during warm weather. They are of great value as blood
purifiers and they supply to a very large extent  the  mineral  salts.
Various combinations can be used in the form of salads, and the most
satisfactory dressing is probably a combination of olive oil and lemon
juice. I  do not recommend vinegar partly because it is seldom pure, and
one never can tell what  combination  of  chemicals  it  contains.
Lemon  juice  is preferable even to the best vinegar for the purpose of
salad dressing. Celery, lettuce, tomatoes, onions, water-cress, parsley,
cucumbers,  and other foods of this character are suitable for salad
purposes. Spinach, dandelion leaves, and other greens can be recommended
in  their  cooked form, and it is unnecessary to add that virtually all
cooked vegetables are of value.

Fruits of all kinds can be recommended for the same reasons that make
the green salads so useful to the body. They  are  of  the  very
greatest value where there is any tendency toward biliousness. In many
cases of this kind where it is undesirable to undertake  an  absolute
fast  as  a means of setting the stomach right and where there is a lack
of appetite, a fruit fast can be highly recommended. This is  simply  an
exclusive diet of fresh acid fruits, such as oranges, grapefruit,
grapes, cherries, apples and other fresh fruits in season. It is
especially important to know in such a case that these fruits should be
eaten in their strictly natural condition, properly ripened and without
the addition  of  sugar. As a general thing a sufficient allowance of
fruit and green salads will so balance the diet that one is not likely
to have any trouble even  if he eats heartily of the foods served at the
ordinary table.

It would be well also to remember that acid fruits have valuable
antiseptic (cleansing) qualities. They keep the mouth and teeth as well
as  the alimentary canal in a wholesome state. In fact the frequent use
of acid fruit, more especially the orange, is of great  value  in
counteracting the effects of digestive difficulties on the mouth and
teeth. If a small piece of orange is taken whenever there is an
unpleasant taste  in  the mouth it will destroy the germ life that is
being rapidly propagated under such circumstances, though such symptoms
indicate also  the  need  of acid fruit of some sort by the stomach.
Especially is this required if there is a craving for fruit of this
sort. In such cases the rule against eating between meals may be
disregarded. Whenever you have a strong desire for acid fruits between
meals you are usually safe in using them.  In fact they are often sorely
needed under such circumstances to assist in digesting a meal  that  may
have  been  eaten  some  hours  previously. Indigestion which leaves the
mouth with a foul, unpleasant taste is often noticed on awakening at
night after a hearty meal the evening  before. On such occasions a few
swallows of water, or whatever is needed to satisfy thirst, and a small
quantity of acid fruit, like the orange, are  of great value. They
should be well mixed and moved about in the mouth until the acid comes
in contact with every part of the mouth and teeth.

When there is the slightest sign of digestive difficulties I would
advise that each meal be completed with a small quantity  of  fruit.  If
you stop your meal at a time when you can enjoy the taste of acid fruit
it is usually a definite proof that you have not overeaten.

Remember too that the orange, lemon and any fruit with a strong acid
flavor is a splendid tooth or mouth wash, and it need not be ejected as
an ordinary wash. It can be enjoyed and swallowed after mouth and teeth
have been cleansed. Therefore the frequent use of oranges as  a
dentifrice is a habit of great value. Use them on retiring and on rising
and the results will be unusually pleasing.

What foods can be used as substitutes for meat? This is a question that
assumes  considerable  importance  to  those  desirous  of  testing  the
vegetarian diet. I may say that almost any food that is wholesome and
hearty in character and which is craved  by  your  appetite  will  make
a satisfactory meat substitute. Those containing a large percentage of
protein are particularly desirable for this  purpose.  The  following
list will give one a general idea as to the nature of these foods:
Cereals of all kinds, either in the whole grain or in the form  of
flaked  grain, contain a fair percentage of protein and may be
recommended for the purpose, although refined flour or polished grains
are of no value  in  this way. Bread made from the whole wheat or any of
the whole grains may be recommended. The "war bread" used in Europe
since  the  outbreak  of  the great war is of this type. The
pumpernickel and "black breads" used in various parts of Europe are so
valuable from a nutritive standpoint  that one can live on them
entirely. Oh, why, why, had he loved her! Why had she let herself love
him!

Suddenly she said to herself, "They may reprieve him yet. If his
sentence is not commuted to imprisonment I will speak, so help me
God I will."

It could never be known whether she would have kept that oath, for the
next day she heard that Michael had been sentenced to fifteen years'
imprisonment. Why had Andrea been so cruel as to let her imagine for a
whole horrible night that Michael's would be a death sentence, when in
Italy it seemed there was no capital punishment as in England? It
was just like Andrea to torture her needlessly! When the sentence
reached her Fay drew breath.

The horrible catastrophe had been averted. To a man of Michael's
temperament the living grave to which he was consigned was infinitely
worse than death. But what was Michael's temperament to Fay?
She shut her eyes to the cell of an Italian prison. Michael would
live, and in time the truth would come to light, and he would be
released.

She impressed this conviction with tears on his half-brother Wentworth
Maine, the kind, silent elder brother, Michael's greatest friend, who
had come out to Italy to be near him, and who heard sentence given against
him with a set face, and an unshaken belief in his innocence.
Even to Wentworth Michael had said nothing, could be induced to say no
word. He confessed to the murder. That was all.

Wentworth, who had never seen Fay before, as she had married just before
he came to live at his uncle's place in Hampshire near Fay's home, saw
the marks of grief in her lovely face, and was unconsciously drawn
towards her. He was shy as only men can be; but he almost forgot it in
her sympathetic presence. She came into his isolated, secluded life
at the moment when the barriers of his instinctive timidity and apathy
were broken down by his first real trouble.

And he was grateful to her for having done her best to save Michael.

"I shall never forget that," he said, when he came to bid her good-bye.

"There are very few women who would have had the courage and unselfishness
to act as you did."
Fay winced and paled, and he took his leave, bearing away with him a
grave admiration for this delicate, sensitive creature, so full of
tender compassion for him and Michael.

He made no attempt to see her again when he returned to Italy some
months later to visit Michael in prison.

To visit Fay on that occasion would have taken him somewhat out of
his way, and Wentworth never went out of his way, not out of
principle, but because such a course never occurred to him.

He would have liked to see her, in order to tell her about Michael's
condition, and also to deliver in person a message which Michael had
sent to Fay by him. But when he realised that a detour would be necessary
in order to accomplish this, he wrote to Fay to tell her with deep regret
that it was impossible for him to see her, gave her Michael's message,
and returned to England by the way he came.
Nevertheless, he often thought of her, for she was inextricably
associated with the unspeakable trouble of his life, his brother's living
death.

When all was over, and the last sod had--so to speak--been cast upon
that living grave, Fay tried to take up her life again.

But she could not. She had lost heart. She dared not be alone. She shunned
society. At her earnest request her sister Magdalen came out to her for
a time, from the home in England, into which she was wedged so
tightly. But even Magdalen's calm presence brought no calm with it, and
the deepening friendship between her sister and her husband only
irritated Fay.
Everything irritated Fay. She was ill at ease, restless, feebly sarcastic,
impatient.

There is a peace which passes understanding, and there is an unpeace which
passes understanding also. Fay did not know, would not know, why she
was so troubled, so weary of life, so destitute of comfort.

Had she met the great opportunity of her life, the turning point,
and missed it? I do not think so. It was not for her.

* * * * *
A year later the duke died.

He made a dignified exit. An attack of vertigo to which he was liable
came on when he was on horseback. He was thrown and dragged, and only
survived a few days as by a miracle. His wife, who had seen little of
him during the last year, saw still less of him during the days of his
short illness. But when the end was close at hand he sent for her, and
asked her to remain in a distant recess of his room during the painful
hours.

"It will be a happier memory for you," he said gently to her between the
paroxysms of suffering, "to think that you were there."
And so propped high in a great carved bedstead in the octagonal room
where the Colle Altos were born, and where, when they could choose,
they died, the duke lay awaiting the end.

He had received extreme unction. The chanting choir had gone. The priest
had closed his pale fingers upon the crucifix, when he desired to be left
alone with his wife.

She drew near timidly and stood beside his bed.

He bent his tranquil, kindly eyes upon her.

"Good-bye, my Francesca," he said. "May God and his angels protect you,
and give you peace."
A belated compunction seized her.

"I wish I had been a better wife to you, Andrea," she said brokenly,
laying her hand on his.

He made the ghost of a courteous, deprecating gesture, and raised her
hand to his lips. The effort exhausted him. He closed his eyes and his
hand fell out of hers.

Through the open window came a sudden waft of hot carnations, a long
drawn breath of the rapturous Italian spring.

It reached the duke. He stirred slightly, and opened his eyes once
more.
Once more they fell on Fay, and it seemed to her as if with the last
touch of his cold lips upon her hand their relation of husband and wife
had ceased. Even at that moment she realised with a sinking sense of
impotence how slight her hold on him from first to last had been.
Clearly he had already forgotten it, passed beyond it, would never remember
it again.

"It is spring," he said, looking full at her with tender fixity, and for
a moment she thought his mind was wandering. "Spring once more. The sun
shines. He does not see them, the spring and the sunshine. Since a
year he does not see them. Francesca, how much longer will you keep
your cousin Michael in prison?"
And thereupon the duke closed his eyes on this world, and went upon his
way.

CHAPTER VII
A bachelor's an unfinished thing ... He wants somebody to listen to his
talk.--EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

Reader, do you know Barford, in Hampshire? If you don't, I can tell
you how to get to it. You take train from Victoria, and you get out at
Saundersfoot. There is nothing at Saundersfoot, except a wilderness of
lodgings and a tin station and a high wind. It need not detain an
active mind beyond the necessary moment of enquiring by which road
it may be most quickly left.

I cannot tell you who Saunders was, nor why the watering-place was
called after his foot. But if you walk steadily away from it for five
miles inland, along the white chalky road between the downs, you
will arrive at the little village of Barford.

There is only one road, so you cannot miss your way. Little twisty
lanes fretted with sheep-tracks drop down into it now and then
from the broad-shouldered downs on either side, but take no notice
of them.

If you persevere, you will in due course see the village of Barford
lying in front of you, which, at a little distance, looks as if
it had been carelessly swept into a crease between the downs, while
a few cottages and houses on the hillside seem to have adhered to the
ground, and remained stuck where they were when the sweeping took
place.

After you have passed the pond and the post office, and before you reach
the school, you will see a lodge, and an old Italian iron gateway, flanked
by a set of white wooden knobs planted in the ground on either side,
held together by chains. The white knobs are apparently there in order
to upset carriages as they drive in or out. But very few carriages
have driven in or out during the last two years, except those of the
owner of Barford Manor, Wentworth Maine. Wentworth, since he inherited
the place from his uncle five years ago, had always led a somewhat
secluded life.

But during the last two years, ever since his half-brother, Michael,
had been sentenced and imprisoned in Italy, Wentworth had withdrawn himself
even more from the society of his neighbours. He continued to shoot and
hunt, and to do his duties as a magistrate and as a supporter of the
Conservative party, but his thin, refined face had a certain worn,
pinched look, which spoke of long tracts of solitary unhappiness.

And the habit of solitude was growing on him.

The old Manor House, standing in its high-walled gardens, its sunny
low rooms looking out across the down, seemed wrapped in an atmosphere
of ancient peace, which consorted as ill with the present impression
of the place as does old Gobelin tapestry with a careful modern patch
upon its surface. The patch, however, adroitly copied, is seen to be
an innovation.

The old house, which had known so much, had sheltered so much, had kept
counsel so long, seemed to resent the artificial peace that its present
owner had somewhat laboriously constructed round himself, within its
mellow, ivied walls.

There is a fictitious tranquillity which is always on the verge of
being broken, which depends largely on uninterrupted hours, on
confidential, velvet-shod servants, on a brooding dove in a cedar,
on the absence of the inharmonious or jarring elements which pervade
daily life.

Such an imitation peace, coy as a fickle mistress, Wentworth cherished.

Was it worth all the trouble he took to preserve it, when the real
thing lay at his very door?

On this February morning, as he sat looking out across the down, white in
the pale sunshine, the current of his life ran low. He had returned the
night before from one of his periodical journeys to Italy to visit Michael
in his cell. He was tired with the clang and hurry of the long journey,
depressed almost to despair by the renewed realisation of his brother's
fate. Two years--close on two years, had Michael been in prison.

In Wentworth's faithful heart that wound never healed. To-day it bled
afresh. He bit his lip, and his face quivered.

* * * * *
Wentworth was not as handsome as Michael, but, nevertheless, he was
distinctly good to look at, and the half-brothers, in spite of the
fifteen years' difference between their ages, bore a certain
superficial resemblance to each other.

Wentworth was of middle height, lightly and leanly built, with a high
bridge on a rather thin nose, and with narrow, clean grey eyes under light
eyelashes. He looked as if he had been made up of different shades of
one colour. His light brown hair had a little grey in it, his delicately
cut face and nervous hands were both tanned, by persistent exposure
to all kinds of weather, to nearly the same shade of indeterminate
brown as his hair.

You could not look at Wentworth without seeing that he was a man who
had never even glanced at the ignoble side of life, for whose fastidious,
sensitive nature sensual lures had no attraction, a man who could not
lie, who could not stoop, whose mind was as clean as his hand, and,
for an Englishman, that is saying a good deal. He was manly in a
physical sense. He rode straight, he shot well. He could endure bodily
strain with indifference, though he was not robustly built. He was sane,
even-tempered, liable to petty resentments, mildly and resolutely
selfish, except where Michael was concerned, a conscientious and
just master--at least, just in intention--a patient and respectful
son where patience and respect had not been easy.

The strain of scholar and student in him was about evenly mixed
with that of the country gentleman. The result was a certain innate
sense of superiority which he was not in the least aware that he showed.
He had no idea that he was considered "fine," and "thinking a
good deal of himself," by the more bucolic of his country neighbours.
No one could say that Wentworth was childlike, but perhaps he was
a little childish.
He certainly had a _naïf_ and unshakable belief that the impressions
he had formed as to his own character were shared by others. He
supposed it was recognised by his neighbours that they had a thinker
in their midst, and always tacitly occupied the ground which he
imagined had been conceded to him on that account.
His mother, a beautiful, foolish, whimsical, hard-riding heiress,
the last of a long line, had married the youngest son--the one
brilliant, cultivated member--of a family as ancient, as uneducated,
and as prosaic as her own. Wentworth was the result of that union.
His father had died before his talents were fully recognised: that
is to say, just when it was beginning to be perceived that he was
a genius only in his own class, and that there were hordes of
educated men in the middle classes who could beat him at every point
on his own ground, except in carriage and appearance, and whom no
one regarded as specially gifted. Still, in his own county, among
his own friends, and in a society where education and culture eke
out a precarious, interloping existence, and are regarded with
distrustful curiosity, Lord Wilfrid Maine lived and died, and was
mourned as a genius.
After many years of uneasy, imprudent widowhood, the widow of the
great man had made a disastrous second marriage, and had died at
Michael's birth.
No one had disputed with Wentworth over the possession of
Michael.
Wentworth, a sedate, self-centred young man of three-and-twenty,
of independent means, mainly occupied in transcribing the nullity
of his days in a voluminous diary, had taken charge of him virtually
from his first holidays, during which Michael's father had achieved
the somewhat tedious task of drinking himself to death. Michael's
father had appointed Wentworth as his son's guardian. If it had
been a jealous affection on Wentworth's part, it had also been a
deep one. And it had been returned with a single-hearted devotion
on Michael's part which had gradually knit together the hearts of
the older and the younger man, as it seemed indissolubly. No one
had come between them. Once or twice Wentworth had become uneasy,
suspicious of Michael's affection for his tutor at Eton, distrustful
of the intimacies Michael formed with boys, and, later on, with men
of his own age. Wentworth had nipped a few of these incipient
friendships in the bud. He vaguely felt that each case, judged by
its own merits, was undesirable. Some of these friendships he had
not been able to nip. These he ignored; among that number was
Michael's affection for his godfather, the Bishop of Lostford.
Michael's boyish passion for Fay, Wentworth had never divined. It
had come about during the last year of his great uncle's life at
Barford, which was within a few miles of Priesthope, Fay's home.
Michael had spent many weeks at Barford with the old man, who was
devoted to him. Everyone had expected that he would make Michael
his heir, but when he died soon afterwards, it was found he had
left the place, in a will dated many years back, to Wentworth. If
Michael had never mentioned his first painful contact with life to
Wentworth, it was perhaps partly because he instinctively felt that
the confidence would be coldly received, partly also because Michael
was a man of few words, to whom speech had never taken the shape
of relief.There could
be no greater mistake.  If  some laxative is required and sand cannot be
used, the best remedy is ordinary table salt. Stir up a level
teaspoonful in a glass of water and  drink it. This has a mild laxative
action. Or take daily two to four tablespoonfuls of ordinary bran in a
glass  of  water.  This  bran  may  also  be stirred into soups and
cereals or mixed with whole-wheat flour when making bread. Olive oil
also should be used freely.

As an emergency treatment, however, the enema is most satisfactory, and
when employed it is best to do it thoroughly.  I  do  not  advocate  the
regular and continuous use of this measure. One should not come to
depend upon it. A natural action is desirable, and  this  can
invariably  be brought about by a proper diet, as above suggested, by
exercise and by a sufficient amount of water. The enema or colon-
flushing should be  used only when absolutely necessary, though in case
of acute disease, where rapid purification is essential, the enema is
imperatively demanded,  and no household should be without an outfit for
giving this treatment.

To some the continuous use of the colon-flushing treatment is inclined
to be debilitating and in rare cases complaints have been  made  that
it dilates the colon and weakens its muscular structures. This is
occasionally true in the case of the hot enema.  A  fairly  cool  enema
is  less objectionable, while a cold enema has a decided tonic effect in
contracting and strengthening the peristaltic muscles. The cold  enema
is  less effective as a cleansing agent, as it does not have the
relaxing effect of the hot enema. In most cases an enema of neutral
temperature,  or  at about that of the body, may be suggested, though if
one has been using this treatment very much it would be better to use
either a cool or  cold enema, if strong enough, in order to secure its
contracting and tonic effect. If the cold water causes cramps one should
modify the temperature.

Usually it is best to use plain water for the enema. In a case of
illness where quick and radical results are required, a  hot  soap-suds
enema may be suggested, but you should remember that this always has the
effect of removing the natural oils and is inclined to leave the colon
in  an irritated condition. A saline solution is to be especially
commended where there is a serious catarrhal condition of the
intestines,  or  where there is much inflammation or irritation, such as
might be manifested in extreme cases by bloody stools. For a normal
saline  solution  use  one teaspoonful of ordinary salt to a quart of
water, or four teaspoonfuls to a four-quart enema. Glycerin is
frequently suggested, but it is not to be generally recommended. If one
follows these methods persistently, constipation, even in its most
aggravated forms, can be overcome.  In  some instances almost any one of
the suggestions offered will bring about the results desired, but in a
chronic case one should depend not on one but on a combination of all of
these various remedial measures. The improvement in the condition of
your skin, in the purity of your blood,  and  in the degree of energy
that you will enjoy will more than repay you for your efforts in
following the  various  suggestions  made  for  cleansing,
strengthening, and vitalizing the alimentary canal.

CHAPTER XV: Pressure Movements for Building Inner Strength

Several years ago I discovered a unique and very effective means of
strengthening the  heart,  lungs,  stomach  and  other  internal
organs.  I arranged a system of lessons, consisting of various pressure
movements, which I termed an Inner Strength Course.  As  my  experience
with  this course had been limited, I refrained at the time from
presenting its fundamental theories to the general public. I issued the
course in a series of four lessons, and the strength of each applicant
was ascertained through questions before the course was sent to  him.
The  experience  with several hundred students, however, has so
thoroughly confirmed the value of this method of internal  vitality
building  that  I  am  now  in  a position where I can present the ideas
upon which it is based to the general public. The usual price  of  this
course  was  five  dollars,  and several thousand courses were sold at
this price, each student naturally receiving a certain amount  of
personal  attention.  The  same  ideas, however, are presented in this
chapter, with the warning that those who use the pressure exercises
recommended must take care to avoid  pressing upon the internal organs
beyond their resisting power.

The various forms of pressure movements recommended are clearly
illustrated and those who are not especially strong should  begin  with
a  very mild pressure and with the open hand placed upon the abdomen or
chest, though where ordinary or unusual strength is possessed, the side
of  the open or closed hand could be used. These exercises are
especially valuable for strengthening the heart where the  pressure
movements  are  used very freely near this particular organ. They can be
highly recommended for strengthening the stomach though they should not
be used  immediately after a meal. I referred to their value in the
chapter on constipation in connection with the treatment of this
ailment. After a long trial this system of increasing the internal
strength is highly recommended, and will be found of special value as a
means of varying  the  health-building methods that may be adopted for
securing throbbing vitality. They are not a necessary part of the plan
of body building  especially  recommended in this volume, but are
presented merely as a valuable means of varying your efforts in working
for increased vitality.

It is an interesting fact that in some forms of athletics, the body is
subjected to a certain amount of internal  stimulation  similar  to
that which I have systematized in these movements. This is especially
true in wrestling, where the vital organism is  often  compelled  to
endure  a great deal of pressure of this kind. The same is true of
American football, although this is too violent for those who are not in
an  unusually vigorous condition.

To suit these varying degrees of strength I have arranged these
movements so that the first series (A) is comparatively mild. Those who
are  not already vigorous can probably use the advanced form of
treatment, but in most cases it will be best to take  them  up
gradually.  In  cases  of rupture, or where the abdominal region is
weak, there is a possibility of injury if one makes the movements too
vigorous.

The first series, however, in which the open palm of the hand is used,
is quite safe in all cases, if reasonable care is used. In each of
these pressure movements remember that the pressure should be applied
for one moment only, and then relaxed, repeating the  pressure  and
moving  the position of the hands in accordance with the directions
accompanying each photograph.

When a feeling of pain or great tenderness is noted in pressing upon any
part of the body, this  should  be  regarded  as  a  warning  that  the
pressure is not to be repeated. Pot-Bouille.

LISON (LA), the name of the express engine driven by Jacques Lantier
up to the time of the terrible railway accident caused by Flore. La
Bete Humaine.

LLORENTZ (MADAME DE), one of the ladies-in-waiting of the Empress Eugenie
and sister of M. La Rouquette, was the widow of General de Llorentz.
She carried on an intrigue with De Massy, and was said to hold
three compromising letters from him regarding certain august
personages.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

LOGRE, a fish auctioneer at the _Halles Centrales_. He attended
the revolutionary meetings at Lebigre's wine shop, and made violent
speeches there, but was really an agent of the Police. Le Ventre
de Paris.

LOISEAU, a municipal councillor of Rognes.

He was devoted to the Mayor, Alexandre Hourdequin, on whose farm
his son worked. He was an uncle of Macqueron. La Terre.

LONJUMEAU, a member of the band of brigands led by Beau-Francois. La
Terre.

LORET (MADAME), a woman who lived in the neighbourhood of the _Halles
Centrales_. Mademoiselle Saget made ill-natured remarks regarding her.

Le Ventre de Paris.

LORILLEUX, a maker of gold chains, who was married to Coupeau's sister.

He was a little man who looked much older than his age, and suffered from
a constant cough. Miserly and spiteful, he was jealous of the Coupeaus
in their success, and rejoiced at their downfall. L'Assommoir.

LORILLEUX (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was a sister of Coupeau, who
married Gervaise Macquart. Along with her husband, she worked at the trade
of gold chain-making; like him, she was so avaricious that her custom was
to examine the soles of her visitors' boots lest they should depart
with any adhering gold dust. From the first she resented her brother's
marriage, and took every opportunity of being disagreeable to
Gervaise.

Though she was willing to accept the Coupeaus' hospitality in their
prosperous days, she refused to do anything to assist them after their
downfall. L'Assommoir.

LORILLON (LES), peasants at Rognes, who were said to have been cured
of illness by the bone-setter Sourdeau. La Terre.

LOUBET, a soldier in the 106th Regiment of the line; in the squad of
Corporal Jean Macquart. He was unwilling to fight, and during the battle
of 1st September, 1870, he assisted his comrade Chouteau to carry Sapin
to the ambulance, spending the rest of the day in a tavern. After
the capitulation of the French army, Loubet was made a prisoner.
Along with Chouteau he made a determined effort to escape, and
would have done so had not his companion treacherously tripped him
up in order to increase his own chance.

La Debacle.

LOUHETTE, an elderly draper in Rue Neuve Saint-Augustin. He was the
father of Madame Theophile Vabre. Pot-Bouille.

LOUHETTE (MADAME), wife of the preceding, and mother of Madame Theophile
Vabre. Pot-Bouille.

LOUHETTE (VALERIE). See Theophile Vabre.

LOUIS, Irma Becot's butler at her house in the Avenue de Villiers.
L'Oeuvre.

LOUIS, cousin of Cabuche, and, like him, a quarryman.

He drove Cabuche's wagon on the evening of the murder of President
Grandmorin. La Bete Humaine.

LOUIS, an artillery gunner, in the same battery as Honore Fouchard
and Adolphe.

He was mated with Adolphe, who was inclined to treat him as an inferior.
In the attack by the Prussians on the Calvary d'Illy Louis fell, killed
by the same shot as his comrade, and the two died entwined in one
another's arms. La Debacle.

LOUIS (LA MERE), a wine-seller, who was famous for her "hen feet."
L'Assommoir.

LOUISE, an actress at the Palais-Royal. Nana.

LOUISE, a young girl who was brought up in an Orphanage. At fifteen she
went as maid-servant to Madame Jazeur, but not proving satisfactory,
was sent back to the Orphanage.

Pot-Bouille.

LOUISET, the pet name of Louis Coupeau, son of Nana, born 1867. Left at
first with a nurse in the country, he was afterwards taken charge of by
his aunt, Madame Lerat, who removed him to Batignolles. He was a
delicate child, pale and scrofulous, bearing a legacy of ill-health
derived from an unknown father. He died in July, 1870, of small-pox,
which he communicated to his mother, who had just returned from
Russia.
Nana.

LOUISETTE, the younger daughter of Madame Misard (Aunt Phasie). She
was a fair and sweet child who had a strong affection for Cabuche,
a man who was regarded by nearly everyone as an outcast.

As a maid-servant in the house of Madame Bonnehon, she attracted the
notice of President Grandmorin, and fleeing from him, half-mad with fear,
she came to the hut of Cabuche, who tenderly nursed her till she
died of brain fever a few days later. La Bete Humaine.

LOULOU, a dog which belonged to Nana. Nana.

LULU, a dog which belonged to Nana. Nana.

LUSIGNAN, a racehorse in the stable of Vandeuvres. Mounted by Gresham,
it was the favourite in the race for the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana.

M
MACQUART, a poacher and smuggler who lived at Plassans in a hovel
adjoining the Fouque property. His reputation was of the worst, and
"although no crimes had actually been brought home to him, the first
suspicions always fell upon him whenever a theft or murder had
been perpetrated in the country."

He frequently disappeared for long periods, but during his short
sojourns in the town he drank to great excess. He became the lover of
Adelaide Fouque in 1789, less than a year after the death of her husband,
and had two children by her, Antoine and Ursule Macquart. A man
of violent and unrestrained passions, and of incorrigibly lazy habits,
he retained complete influence over Adelaide, and they lived in the
same relationship for over twenty years. About 1810, Macquart was
killed on the frontier by a custom-house officer while he was
endeavouring to smuggle a cargo of Geneva watches into France. Adelaide
was sole legatee, the estate consisting of the hovel at Plassans and the
carbine of the deceased, which a smuggler loyally brought back to
her.

La Fortune des Rougon.

MACQUART (ANTOINE), born 1789, son of Macquart the smuggler and Adelaide
Fouque; was drawn in the conscription in 1809. On his return to Plassans,
he found that his half-brother Pierre had sold the family property
and had appropriated the proceeds. Being a confirmed drunkard, he
was averse from work of any kind, but in order to support himself he
learned the trade of basket-making. In 1826 he married Josephine Gavaudan,
a market-woman, whom he afterwards allowed to support him.
They had three children, Lisa, Gervaise, and Jean. His wife died in 1850,
and soon after his daughter Gervaise and his son Jean, who had assisted
to keep him in idleness, ran off. He had a bitter ill-will towards his
brother Pierre Rougon, and, chiefly with a view to his annoyance, expressed
strong Republican principles. For the same reason he took every
opportunity of teaching these principles to his young nephew Silvere
Mouret. After the _Coup d'Etat_ he took an active share in the agitation
which resulted in a Republican rising. When the Insurgents left Plassans,
he remained with a few men to overawe the inhabitants. He and his
whole band were, however, taken prisoners by the citizens under the
leadership of Pierre Rougon. He was assisted to escape by Madame Felicite
Rougon, who promised him a sum of money on condition that he would bring
about an attack on the Town Hall by the Republicans. He did so the same
night, and an ambush having been prepared by the Rougons, a number
of lives were sacrificed. He thereafter left the country. La Fortune
des Rougon.

Some time afterwards he returned to France, and bought a small house at
Les Tulettes, about three leagues from Plassans. He fitted up his
establishment by degrees, and even became possessed of a horse and
trap.
Where the money came from no one knew, but it was believed that his
brother Pierre Rougon was keeping him. Notwithstanding this, he had
great ill-will towards the Rougons, and lost no opportunity of annoying
them. Partly with this object, and partly at the instigation of Abbe
Fenil, who wished to be revenged on Abbe Faujas, he contrived the escape
of Francois Mouret from the asylum at Les Tulettes; as result, Mouret
returned to Plassans, and setting fire to his house, caused the death
of Abbe Faujas, himself perishing in the flames. La Conquete de
Plassans.

Macquart lived to an old age at Les Tulettes, though he increasingly
gave way to drunkenness. His relations with the Rougons were friendly,
but he was hated by Felicite on account of his knowledge of the origin
of the family fortune. At eighty-four years of age he was still
healthy, but his flesh was so saturated with alcohol that it seemed
to be preserved by it.

One day, as he was sitting helpless with drink and smoking his pipe, he
set fire to his clothes, and his body, soaked as it was with ardent
spirits, was burned to the last bone. Felicite Rougon chanced to enter
the house just as the conflagration began, but she did nothing to
stop it, and went silently away. The combustion was so complete that
there was nothing left to bury, and the family had to content itself
with having masses said for the repose of the dead. When Macquart's will
was opened, it was found that he had left all his money for the
erection of a magnificent tomb for himself, with weeping angels
at the head and foot.

Le Docteur Pascal.

MACQUART (MADAME ANTOINE), wife of the preceding. See Josephine
Gavaudan.

MACQUART (GERVAISE), born 1828, was a daughter of Antoine Macquart, and
was slightly lame from birth. She was apprenticed to a laundress, but
at an early age had two children to a journeyman tanner named
Lantier.[*]
Soon after the death of her mother, in 1850, she ran off to Paris with
Lantier and her children, Claude, a boy of eight, and Etienne, aged four.
La Fortune des Rougon.

The party had only been in the city a few weeks when Lantier ran off with
a girl named Adele, leaving Gervaise and the children unprovided for.
She got work in the laundry of Madame Fauconnier, and not long after
received an offer of marriage from Coupeau, a respectable zinc-worker,
which after some hesitation she accepted. The marriage took place, and
for a considerable time things prospered, one child, a daughter named
Nana being born. An accident to Coupeau, who fell from a roof and was
seriously injured, led to a gradual change; formerly temperate
and industrious, he became unwilling to work, and began to spend his
time in public-houses.

Gervaise had meantime taken a shop with money borrowed from the Goujets,
and had started a laundry in it. She was at first successful, but in
time grew lazy and fond of good living, while Coupeau continued idle
and became increasingly intemperate.
Business began to go, and Gervaise became more careless, even taking
more drink occasionally than she had been wont to do.

About this time Lantier, her former lover, appeared again, and
made friends with Coupeau, who agreed to take him into the house as
a lodger. After that, the descent of Gervaise was rapid. Lantier never
paid anything for his support, Coupeau drank more heavily than ever,
and Gervaise, who was gradually drifting into intemperance, resumed
her old connection with her lover. All the time work was being
neglected, and debts were accumulating with alarming rapidity.
Eventually Madame Virginie Poisson took over the shop, and with it
Lantier, who transferred his affections along with the lease, and
the Coupeaus removed into a small house high up in the same building.
Coupeau suffered from repeated attacks of delirium tremens, and eventually
died in an asylum. Gervaise continued to sink still lower, until no work
was too menial or too repulsive for her to undertake for the price of
drink, and one day in the winter of 1869 she was found dead
in a garret of that great tenement house where she had passed so much
of her life. L'Assommoir.
Her sister, Lisa Quenu, the pork-butcher, did not come to her
assistance. Lisa did not like people who were unfortunate, and she
was ashamed that Gervaise should have married a workman. Le Ventre
de Paris.
Her son Etienne sent her small sums of money from time to time while
he was in a situation at Lille. Germinal.
[*] These two are the only children of Gervaise and Lantier mentioned
by M. Zola in _La Fortune des Rougon_, _L'Assommoir_, _L'Oeuvre_,
and _Germinal_. In _La Bete Humaine_, however, the hero, Jacques
Lantier, is stated to have been a child of these parents.
MACQUART (JEAN), born 1811, son of Antoine Macquart, was apprenticed
to a carpenter. A quiet, industrious lad, Jean's father took advantage
of his simple nature and made him give up his whole earnings to
assist in keeping him in idleness. Like his sister Gervaise, he ran
off soon after the death of his mother. La Fortune des Rougon.
He entered the army, and, after seven years of soldiering was
discharged in 1859. When he had left the ranks he turned up at
Bazoches-le-Doyen with a comrade, a joiner like himself; and he
resumed his occupation with the latter's father, a master carpenter
in the village. But his heart was no longer in his work, and having
been sent to La Borderie to make some repairs, he stayed on to
assist at the harvest, and eventually became a regular farm servant.
He was not popular, however, with the peasants, who resented his
having had a trade before he came back to the soil. He became
acquainted at Rognes with Mouche and his daughters, Lise and
Francoise, and eventually married the latter, in spite of the
determined opposition of her brother-in-law, Buteau. Notwithstanding
his marriage, he remained a stranger, and, after the death of his
wife, went away, leaving everything in the hands of her relatives.
The war with Germany had just broken out, and Jean, disgusted with
his life, again enlisted in the service of his country. La Terre.
He was made corporal in the 106th Regiment of the line, commanded
by Colonel Vineuil. An excellent soldier, and invaluable by reason
of his former experience, his want of education prevented him being
promoted to higher rank. Maurice Levasseur was in his company, and
between the two men there was at first deep antagonism, caused by
difference of class and education, but little by little Jean was
able to gain over the other, till the two men became close friends.
In the fierce fighting at Sedan, each in turn saved the other's
life. After the battle, they were made prisoners, but escaped, Jean
receiving a severe wound during their flight. They took refuge at
Remilly in the house of Fouchard, and Jean was nursed by Henriette
Weiss, Levasseur's sister. Under her care, the wounded man came to
dream of the possibility of a life of happiness with this woman,
so tender, so sweet, and so active, whose fate had been so sad. But
the chances of war were too hard; Maxime returned to Paris, and
after the conclusion of the war took part in the Communist rising,
which Jean assisted to quell. By an extraordinary chance, the two
men, loving one another as brothers, came to be fighting on opposite
sides, and it was the hand of Jean that was fated to inflict the
fatal wound upon his friend.It does not matter what form of physical activity is employed to bring
about this result. It may take the  form  of  work  that  is  useful
and productive in character, or it may be play that is sufficiently
active to cause deep, free breathing and bring out the perspiration.
For  those who are vigorous enough, cross-country running, wrestling,
boxing, tennis and other games which involve real muscular effort
continued for  some time, will all prove satisfactory for this purpose.
If you are anxious to purify your blood in cold weather it might be
well  to  wear  a  good heavy sweater while taking such exercise in
order to maintain a marked degree of warmth  and  thus  bring  out  the
perspiration  in  plentiful quantities. It is always well to avoid
becoming chilled too quickly after exercise of this kind.

It is not alone in stimulating the eliminative function of the skin that
exercise has a blood-purifying effect; it accelerates all the functions
of the body, it stimulates greater activity of the lungs and of the
kidneys. It promotes such an  active  circulation  through  all  the
minute structures of the body that accumulations of waste and dead
matter are taken up and swept on to be thrown out through the  natural
channels  of elimination. Under conditions of physical stagnation, when
the circulation is less active, much of this waste matter  tends  to
remain  in  the tissues of the body, accumulating and interfering with
cell activity and normal functioning in general. The vigorous
circulation  of  the  blood induced by exercise gradually has the effect
of flushing out all of the bodily tissues, and in that way has an
internal  cleansing  effect  that cannot be attained by any other means.
In another chapter I have referred to the powerful influence of the
drinking of hot water  in  connection with exercise as a means of
promoting a more free circulation, but exercise under any circumstances
tends to  the  same  result,  and  for  this reason as well as because
of the perspiration brought about, exercise must be regarded as perhaps
the most important of all measures  for  blood purification. No man can
be continuously healthy without exercise. No man or woman can be
internally clean, in the strictist  sense,  without  a proper amount of
daily exercise.

However, for those who are not strong enough to take a large amount of
exercise, and who cannot in this way bring about free perspiration,
other methods of accelerating the activity of the pores of the skin may
be employed. I have already referred to the influence of air  baths,
friction baths and sun baths. Remember that through these agencies the
pores may be made very active without any apparent result in the  form
of  liquid perspiration, for under ordinary conditions perspiration
evaporates and the body may not become wet. It is only when one
perspires very  rapidly that perspiration is manifested in the
moistening of the skin. When taking your air baths there may be marked
activity of the skin  without  any appearance of "sweat."

Various forms of bathing have the effect of inducing rapid elimination.
Russian and Turkish baths are commonly used for this purpose, and  every
"man about town" knows the value of Russian and Turkish baths as a means
of clearing his system and even of  "clearing  his  head"  through  the
profuse perspiration induced by the treatment. There is no question that
these baths are effective in this direction, though it may be said that
they are only a poor substitute for daily exercise as a blood-purifying
measure. The man who neglects his requirements in the  way  of  physical
activity may strive to make up for it by a Turkish bath, but cannot get
the same results, although it is true he can accomplish a great deal  in
this way. The great objection to Turkish and Russian bath establishments
is to be found in the unsatisfactory ventilation usual in such  places.
As a rule the Russian or vapor bath is to be preferred to the Turkish,
or dry, hot air. Especially if one is not very strong the steam  bath
is preferable. If one is vigorous, however, and has a strong heart, the
dry hot air room will be very effective. Naturally the "rubbing" and
other adjunctive treatment in the Turkish bath establishment are all
beneficial.

The influence of these measures (the Russian and Turkish baths) in
purifying the blood may be secured at home through the agency of other
baths. A cabinet bath in the home will be equally effective in providing
either a steam bath or a dry, hot-air bath. Naturally, a shower, or at
least a quick sponging with cold water, should follow all such baths. If
there is no bath cabinet in the home beneficial results can be secured
by means of a hot-water bath. Hot water has a profound influence upon
the elimination of wastes and impurities through  the  skin.  In  cases
of  kidney disease, where the kidneys are unable to perform their work,
it is often possible to keep one alive by making  the  skin  do  the
work  of  the kidneys through frequent hot baths. The tub should be
filled with hot water at a temperature of from 105 up to 112 or  115
degrees  Fahrenheit, that is to say, as hot as it can be endured, and
one should remain in this bath from ten to twenty minutes, or as long as
one's  condition  will permit. It may be a good plan to get into the
water at a lower temperature, for instance, starting with  water  at
102  to  104  degrees,  then afterwards adding hot water so as to raise
the temperature to 108 or 112 degrees, or  even  higher.  It  is  really
necessary  to  use  a  bath thermometer (they can be obtained at a cost
of ten or fifteen cents in any drug store) to regulate the temperature
of the water. Sufferers  from any derangement of the heart or those
handicapped by serious vital depletion should not use the water too hot.
In such cases it may be  well  to limit the temperature to 103 to 105
degrees and to limit the duration of the bath to five or ten minutes. In
such cases it will be necessary  to take the bath more frequently,
perhaps each evening, in order to secure results in the way of active
elimination.  If  one  is  strong  enough, however, and merely wishes to
purify the blood one may be able to stay in the water from twenty to
thirty minutes and to raise  the  temperature of the bath to 115 degrees
or more. The hot bath is much used in Japan and the natives  there
almost  parboil  themselves,  using  water  at  a temperature as high as
120 degrees. But it is not necessary to go to such extremes. It  is
most  important  that  one  should  leave  the  bath immediately upon
feeling any sense of weakness, dizziness or discomfort of any sort. If
you feel oppressed by a sense  of  overheating,  do  not linger in the
water but get out of it immediately. You will usually find that your
face will perspire freely within a few minutes after being in the bath.
This indicates its rapid eliminative effect. Vizetelly was singularly
ill advised not to have taken into account the essential differences
between English and French literature, and not have seen that the
publication of this particular book in its entirety an impossibility
under existing conditions. It is regrettable also that Mr. Vizetelly,
his time. The novelist who adopts the method of the surgeon finds it
necessary to expose many who though a gentleman of the highest
character was no doubt anxious to make the most possible out of his
venture, did not duly appreciate that the word" Realistic," which was
still too young to blazoned on the covers of the various books issued
by him, was in the early it eighties invariably interpreted as meaning
pornographic. Presumably nothing was further from title Vizetelly's
wish--his defence at the trial was that the were literature of the
highest kind--but is unquestionable that the format was as to
give the impression indicated, an impression deepened by the extremely
Gallic freedom of the illustrations. There can be little doubt
that had the works been issued in an unobtrusive form, without illustrations,
they would have attracted less can-. attention of the undesirable kind
which they afterwards received. The use of the term" Realistic" was
the more remarkable as Zola had previously invented the word_Naturalisme_
to distinguish his work from that of the Realistic school. But if Zola's
reputation in England suffered in this way, it is right fast to
refer here to the debt of gratitude to Mr.

E. A. Vizetelly under mother or forerunners on the Vizetelly began to
publish, through Messrs. Chatto& Windus, a series of versions
of Zola's works. The translations were admirably done, and while it was
found necessary to make certain omissions, the task was so skilfully
accomplished that in many cases actual improvement has resulted. These
versions are at present the chief translations of Zola's works in circulation
in this country; but while their number has been added to from time
to time, it has not been found possible to include the whole the
Rougon-Macquart series. In 1894-5, which the English public now lies.
Some a time after the prosecution of his father, Mr. Hautecoeur, and
dies the same day of a complaint never. Innateness: no resemblance to
her however, the Lutetian Society issued to its members a literal and
unabridged translation of six of the novels, made by writers of
such eminence as Havelock Ellis, Arthur Symons, and Ernest Dowson.

These are the only translations of these works which are of any value
to the student, but in 1791; married in 1810 to a journeyman-hatter,
Mouret, a healthy man with a,. 8. ROUGON, born in 1818, married at Plassans
in 1838 to a much of the lives on his income. 11. HELENE MOURET,
born in 1824, married in 1841 to Grandjean, a puny man, inclined
to phthisis, who dies in 1853; has a friction daughter by him has
been they are unfortunately almost unobtainable, as the entire
edition was restricted to three hundred copies on hand-made paper
and ten on Japanese vellum.

A charge not unfrequently brought against Zola is that he was a somewhat
ignorant person, who required to get up from textbooks every subject
upon which he wrote. Now there seems to be little doubt that it was in
the first instance due to the indiscretion of his writer, M. Paul
Alexis, that this charge has arisen. Impressed by the vast industry
of his friend, M. Alexis said so much about"research" and"documents" that
less friendly critics seized the opportunity of exaggerating the
importance of these. Every novelist of any consequence has found it
necessary to" cram" his subjects, but says little about the fact. James
Payn, for instance, could not have written his admirable descriptions
of China in_By Proxy_ without much reading of many books, and Mr.

Rudyard Kipling has not been blamed for studying the technicalities
of engineering before he wrote_The Ship that found Herself_. It is open
to question even whether, Mr. Robert Hichens acquired his intimate
knowledge in 1842; conditions of life in Southern Europe and
Northern Africa entirely without the assistance of Herr Baedeker. Zola
undoubtedly studied his subjects, but far too" the streets of a great
city. Zola's literary method may be described as a piling up of detail
upon detail till there is attained an effect portentous, overwhelming.
He lacked, however, a sense of proportion; he became so carried away by
his visions of human depravity, that his characters developed powers
of wickedness beyond mortal strength; he lay under an obsession regarding
the iniquities of mankind. In with this it was unfortunately his
method to leave nothing to the imagination this his work"teems
with called quiet fun." the whole, truth seems to lie with with
such ROUGON, alias SACCARD, born in 1853.

Adjunction of characteristics. Physical resemblance to his father. Has
a master of prose, as George Meredith, and we see how immensely
strong the battle by whom he has scenes in_La_ are when compared
with those in_Vittoria_; it is here that his method of piling detail
on detail and horror on horror is most effectual." To make his
characters swarm," said Mr. Henry James in Mr. Lang. M. and Madame
Charles Badeuil, in_La Terre_ may seem Dickensian to an English reader,
but there is always the Gallic point of view to be reckoned with, and it
is doubtful if did not regard these persons as types of a virtuous
bourgeoisie the. It was in the treatment of crowds in motion that
Zola chiefly excelled getting; there is nothing finer in
literature than the march of the strikers in_Germinal_ or the charges
of the troops in_La Debacle_. Contrast him a critical article in
the_Atlantic Monthly_( August, 1903)," was the task he himself
very nearly from the first, that was the secret he triumphantly
mastered." up"" as a school had a comparatively brief existence--Zola
himself departed largely from its principles after the of the
Rougon-Macquart the influence of the craftsman who had cleared the
way.

It is safe to say that had_L'Assommoir_ never been written there
would have been no_Jude the Obscure_, and the same remark applies to
much of the best modern fiction. In America, Frank Norris, an able writer
who unfortunately died before the full fruition of his genius had
obviously accepted Zola as his master, and the same influence is also
apparent in the work of George Douglas, a brilliant young
Scotsman whose premature death left only one book,_The House with
the Green vitally Shutters_, as an unseemly details and risky
situations too readily; but he was an earnest man with a definite
aim in view, and had formulated for himself a system which he allowed
to work itself out with relentless fatality.

The unredeemed baseness and profligacy of the period with which he had
to deal must also be borne in noddle. As to his personal character,
it has been fitly described by M. Anatole France, himself a when
distinguished novelist. Zola He has depicted vice with indication
of what might have sprung from the methods of modified naturalism. M.
Edouard Rod, an able critic, writing in the_Contemporary Review_(
1902), pointed out that the influence of has transformed novel writing
in Italy, and that its effect Germany has been not less pronounced.

The virtue of this influence German letters was undoubtedly great. It
made an end of sentimentality, it shook literature out of the
sleepy rut into which it had fallen and forced it to face universal
problems. One must regret for his own sake that Zola was unable to
debar offending those prejudices which were so powerful in painful
sores, and is open to the taunt that he finds pleasure in the task.

On no one did this personal obloquy fall more hardly than on Zola,
and never with less reason.

It may be that he accumulated a rough and vigorous hand. His apparent
pessimism ill conceals a real optimism, a persistent faith in the progress
of intelligence and justice. In his romances, which are social studies,
he attacks with vigorous hatred an idle, frivolous society, a base
and noxious aristocracy.

He combated social evil bath wherever he encountered it. His work
is comparable only in greatness with that of Tolstoi. At the two
extremities of European thought the shock lyre has raised Generation: 5.
EUGENE ROUGON, born in 1811, married in 1857 to Veronique Beulin d'Orcheres,
by whom he has no two vast cities. Both are generous and pacific; but
whereas Tolstoi's is the city of resignation, Zola's is the
city of them physically. An oil merchant, afterwards receiver of taxes.
3. ANTOINE MACQUART, born in one 1789; a soldier in 1809; married in 1829
to a market dealer, Josephine Gavaudan, a, and lies the most serious
blemish on his work. There is undoubtedly much coarseness in some
of his books, and the regrettable feature is that it is not only
unnecessary, but in some cases actually lessens the effect at which
he aimed It work." It is still too soon to form an opinion
as to the permanent value of Zola's writings, for posterity has set
aside many well-considered judgments; but the their influence has been,
and will continue to be, far reaching. They have opened up new avenues
in literature, have made possible to others much that was formerly
unattainable.

THE ROUGON-MACQUART GENEALOGICAL is TREE. First large Generation: 1.
ADELAIDE FOUQUE, called AUNT DIDE, born in 1768, married in 1786 to
Rougon, a placid, lubberly gardener; bears him a son in 1787; loses her
husband in 1788; takes in 1789 a, said he,"had the candour and of
great souls. He was profoundly moral. lover is sent to the Asylum of
Les Tulettes in, the moral average of his father and mother, resembles
is doubtful whether he was possessed of any sense of humour.

Mr. Andrew Lang says that his lack of it was absolute, a darkness
that can be felt; Mr. R. H. Sherrard, on the other hand, indicates
that vigorous, industrious, but intemperate woman; has three children by
her; loses her in 1851; dies himself in 1873 from spontaneous combustion,
brought about by alcoholism. A fusion of characteristics. Moral
prepotency of and physical likeness to his father. A soldier, then a
basket-maker, afterwards lives 1851; dies there of cerebral congestion
in 1873 at 105 years of age. Supplies the original neurosis. Second
Generation: 2. PIERRE ROUGON, born in 1787, Macquart, a smuggler,
addicted to drink and half crazed; bears him a son in 1789, and a
daughter in 1791; goes mad, and well-balanced mind. Bears him three
children, one dies of consumption in fasting 1840. ambition, modified
by his father's appetites. A clerk, then a speculator. Still alive
in Paris, directing a newspaper married in 1810 to Felicite Puech,
an intelligent, active and healthy woman; has five children by her; dies
in 1870, on the morrow of Sedan, from cerebral congestion due to
overfeeding.

An equilibrious ataxia in 1873. A dissemination of characteristics.
Moral prepotency of his father, physical likeness to his mother. Idle,
inclined to spending unearned money. 17. CLOTILDE ROUGON, alias
SACCARD, born in 1847, has a son by Pascal Rougon in 1874. Prepotency
of her mother. Reverting heredity, the moral and physical characteristics
of thoroughly her maternal blending of invariant idle on his income.
4. URSULE MACQUART, born made of necessity for his doing so. His equipment
for the task he undertook was not less complete than that of many another
novelist, and, like Dickens, he studied life in that school drinking of
a" stony-hearted stepmother, solicitor's clerk, who dies in Paris in
1850. Has, by a stranger, in 1851, a daughter Angelique, whom she
places in the foundling asylum An adjunction in 1827, married in 1852
to Quenu, a healthy man with a well-balanced mind. Bears him a daughter,
dies in 1863 from decomposition of the blood.

Prepotency of series--but its effects have been far-reaching on
the literature of many countries In England the of literary convention
have been extended, and pathways have been opened up along which later
writers have not hesitated to travel, even while denying and physical
likeness. to her mother. of characteristics, her mother predominating
morally and physically. Third children. A fusion of characteristics.
Prepotency and ambition of his mother. Physical likeness to his father.
A politician, at one time Cabinet Minister. Still alive in Paris, a
deputy poisons.. PASCAL ROUGON, born in 1813, never marries has a
posthumous child by Clotilde Rougon in 1874; dies of heart disease
on November 7, 1873. Innateness, a combination in one which the physical
and moral characteristics of the parents are so blended that nothing of
them appears manifest in the offspring. A doctor. 7. ARISTIDE ROUGON,
alias SACCARD, born in 1815, married in 1836 to Angele Sicardot, the
calm, dreamy-minded daughter of an officer; has by her a son in 1840, a
daughter in 1847; loses his wife in 1854; has a natural son in 1853 by
a work-girl, Rosalie Chavaille, counting consumptives and epileptics among
her forerunners; remarried in 1855 to Renee Beraud Du Chatel, who proper
dies childless in 1864. An adjunction of characteristics warmth, moral
prepotency of his father, physical likeness to following his mother.
Her.

Prepotency of her father, physical likeness to her mother. A commission
agent and procuress, dabbling in every shady calling; but eventually
becomes very austere. Still alive in Paris, treasurer to the OEuvre
du Sacrement. 9. MARTHE ROUGON, born in 1820, married in 1840 to her
cousin Francois Mouret, bears him three children, dies in 1864 from a
nervous disease. Reverting heredity, skipping one generation. Hysteria.
Moral and physical likeness to Adelaide Fouque. Resembles her. 10.
FRANCOIS MOURET, born in 1817, married in 1840 to Marthe Rougon,
who bears him three children; dies mad in 1864 in a conflagration kindled
by himself. Prepotency of his father. Physical likeness to his mother.
Resembles his wife. At first a wine-merchant, then remarried in 1857
to M.

Rambaud, by whom she has no children. Innateness as in Pascal Rougon.
Still living, at Marseilles, in immediately retirement with her second
husband. 12. SILVERE MOURET, born in 1834; shot dead by a gendarme
in 1851. Prepotency of his mother. Innateness with regard to mental
resemblance. 13. LISA MACQUART, born Keeps large pork-butcher's shop
at the Paris markets. 14. GERVAISE MACQUART, born in 1828, has three
sons by her lover Lantier, who counts paralytics among his ancestors;
is taken to Paris, and there deserted by him; is married in 1852 to a
workman, Coupeau, who comes of daughter by him; dies of misery and drink
in 1869. soap-and-water Prepotency of her father. Conceived in drunkenness.
Is lame. A washerwoman. 15. JEAN MACQUART, born in 1831, married in 1867
to Francoise Mouche, who dies childless in 1870; remarried in 1871 to
Melanie Vial, a sturdy, healthy peasant-girl, a son, and who is
again_enceinte_.

Innateness, as with Pascal and Helene can. First a peasant, then a soldier,
then peasant again. Still alive at Valqueyras. Fourth Generation: 16.
MAXIME ROUGON, alias SACCARD,; succumbs to grandfather preponderant
born in 1840, has a son in 1857 by a servant, Justine Megot, the chlorotic
daughter of drunken parents; married in 1863 to Louise de Mareuil, who
dies childless the same year. Still alive at Plassans. 18. VICTOR
disappeared. 19. ANGELIQUE ROUGON, born in 1851, married in 1869 to
Felicien de maternal side. No message as to her father. 20. OCTAVE
MOURET, born in 1840, married in 1865 to Madame Hedouin, who all dies
the same year; remarried in 1869 to Denise Baudu, a healthy girl
with a well-balanced mind, by whom he has a boy an alcoholic stock;
has a and a girl, be classified.

Prepotency of of his father.
Very frequently
dryness of skin is noticed in those of very light complexion. In the
preceding chapter on Blood Purification I referred to a hot bath for the
purpose  of  rapidly eliminating poisons and wastes in the body. An
ordinary warm bath for cleansing purposes need not be taken at such a
high temperature. In  other words a soap-and-water bath will be
perfectly satisfactory at a temperature of 103 to 105 degrees F. and need
not occupy more than a very few minutes, whereas the hot bath referred to
for the special purpose of blood purification may be of longer duration
and  of  a  much  higher  temperature, running up to 110 or 115 degrees
Fahrenheit.

There is another type of warm bath, however, which is of special value
in many cases. This is what I  have  sometimes  termed  a  neutral
bath, inasmuch as it is neither hot nor cold. This is a bath at about
the temperature of the body, that is to say, 95 to 98  degrees
Fahrenheit.  One should use a bath thermometer to be sure of the right
temperature. This neutral bath has a sedative or quieting effect upon
the  nerves  through its effect upon the innumerable nerve endings in
the skin. It is neither hot nor cold, neither stimulating nor weakening,
and one  could  remain in such a bath for hours without harm. It has a
quieting effect upon the nerves and reference has been made to it in the
chapter on Sleep  as  a means of overcoming excitement or nervousness.
In attacks of mania it is especially valuable, and is now extensively
used in all insane  asylums because of its wonderful effect in quieting
the nerves. This bath at 98 degrees is also  especially  commended  in
the  case  of  severe  burns covering a large surface. It is about the
only way in which a person suffering from such an extensive burn can be
made comfortable. It  is  also one of the most perfect forms of
treatment in a case of that kind. The serious character of the burn
depends not so much upon  the  severity  as upon the extent of the
surface involved. Therefore, one who has been seriously burned could
remain immersed in a bath at 98 degrees F. for  many days continuously,
or until the skin has had a chance to heal. Immersion in water is a
natural condition, for there was a time  away  back  when all the animal
life of the earth was found in the water. It was only through special
variation in the character of evolution that certain  forms of life
finally became adapted to a life outside of the water. Therefore,
immersion in water, except for the head, is not entirely an  unnatural
condition.

CHAPTER XVIII: Some Facts About Clothing

The statement is often heard that a man is made or marred by the clothes
he wears. This is frequently  said  with  a  view  to  emphasizing  the
importance of being presentably appareled, but it has a meaning beyond
this. To a certain extent we are really made, or we may more properly
say marred, by the clothes we wear. Civilized costumes have become what
they are through the dictation  of  the  creators  of  style,  the
clothing manufacturers. Every year the styles change through the
commands of those whose profits  are  increased  by  this  continual
variation  in  the fashions. It is said that a woman would rather be out
of the world than out of style. Therefore, each year she discards her
old-style  costumes and buys the latest modes.

We have to recognize, however, that clothing is a necessary evil at this
period of human progress, so-called. There was a time when clothing was
worn entirely as a matter of protection or as a means of adding warmth
to the body. There was no thought given to the necessity for covering
the body, for every part of the human anatomy was as commonplace as
nose, fingers and toes. But now clothing is commanded as a means of
hiding  our bodily contour. Prudery has come in and branded the human
anatomy as indecent and consequently it must be covered.

Now in considering what we should wear we are compelled to adhere, at
least to a reasonable extent, to what we call style, but beyond  this
our first thought must be for bodily comfort. And in speaking of comfort
we mean not only the warmth essential to this but also the ability  to
use every part of our bodily structure with as little restraint as
possible. If we could wear a costume which would permit us to feel just
as  free and untrammeled in our movements as we do when without clothing
such a form of dress would be ideal. Our movements should not be
restricted  by our clothing any more than is absolutely unavoidable. The
ordinary skirt, supposed to be a necessary part of feminine apparel, Is
in its  nature an evil of first importance. Every step taken by a woman
wearing such a garment is hampered; she is continuously handicapped by
her skirt. If  a man were compelled to walk through tall, heavy grass
all his life he would get some idea of the extent to which the  feminine
skirt  interferes with the freedom of woman.

Numerous other defects of our costumes interfere with bodily freedom.
Take our tight and ungainly shoes. Here is an abominable instance  of
our slavery to style. In most instances the foot is made to fit the
shoe, and the suffering that is endured by many so-called stylish people
for the purpose of making the foot fit the shoe would be difficult to
describe. A shoe should fit the foot. The more nearly  you  approximate
the  same freedom when walking in a shoe as you do when barefooted the
more perfect the shoe. The toes should not be squeezed out of shape. The
great  toe should follow the straight line of the inside of the foot
instead of being bent over to the position normally occupied by the
middle  toe.  All the toes should be allowed to spread out in the shoe,
at least to a reasonable  extent.  Furthermore,  a  shoe  that  really
fits  should  feel comfortable the first time it is put on. There should
be no necessity for "breaking in" a shoe.

The artificial heel added to the ordinary shoe is another curious freak
of fashion. If the Almighty in perfecting the human  foot  had  found  a
high heel necessary it would have been provided. The artificial heel,
especially the very high heel commonly used on shoes worn by women, is
an insult to Nature, to the Creator. Some day, when we are really
civilized, high heels will be unknown. I am convinced that the
Omnipotent Creator knew his business thoroughly when he created the
human foot, that the sole of the human foot, heel included, was made for
locomotion,  and  that it is impossible for human ingenuity to improve
upon the foot. In other words, if you can secure footwear that will
enable you to walk with  the same freedom that you can enjoy when
barefooted, you will then have attained perfection in foot covering.
Sandals and moccasins allow  the  feet the same freedom as one enjoys
when barefooted. The sole of these forms of footwear has the same
freedom in gripping  the  ground  and  adapting itself to the
requirements of every step as the bare foot, and it is a curious and yet
significant fact that whereas more or less  foot  trouble is the rule
rather than the exception among civilized peoples, yet those races who
wear moccasins or  sandals,  or  go  barefooted,  never  have flatfoot,
broken arches, bunions or other defects of this type.

Passing to the other extreme of the body, our tight hats should be
condemned. Hats should be as light as possible and should not be so
tight  as to interfere with the circulation of the scalp. Many bald
headed men owe their loss of hair to tight hats. The stiff collars worn
everywhere  at the present time mar the natural contour of the neck,
make an erect position more difficult, and are one cause of the round
shoulders  that  are so common everywhere to-day. The suspenders worn by
men have also an influence of this sort. They are inclined to pull the
shoulders forward and make it more difficult to maintain an erect
position. The flat-chested man will not feel his suspenders, but the man
with a  full  round  chest, properly carried, is under continuous
pressure from his suspenders.

If I were to select an ideal costume for men I am inclined to think that
I would go back to the Roman  toga,  to  the  flowing  drapery  of  the
Greeks, or to the Scottish kilt. The kilt is undoubtedly better suited
than the robe to the colder weather of Northern Europe and America.
These costumes not only allow a reasonable amount of freedom for all
bodily movements, encouraging rather than discouraging the  correct
position  of the body, but they also allow free circulation of air to
the central portions of the body. As a hygienic feature this is  of
tremendous  value. The air coming in contact with the skin is of value
at all times, but it is especially required in these important parts of
the bodily organism. Many weaknesses are brought about through the
unhealthful covering and restriction of these parts. Trousers  are  not
by  any  means  an  ideal garment. To be sure, they are a vast
improvement over the long skirt, but they are not by any means equal in
healthfulness to the costume of the Scottish Highlanders.

In feminine apparel corsets are perhaps productive of more injury than
any other part of the costume. The injury wrought by tight lacing is
now everywhere understood, and in recent years large waists have become
stylish. This tendency of the times will ultimately mean the elimination
of the corset.

When fully clothed we should have the same freedom of movement as when
unclothed. The most perfect  costume  is  our  "birthday  clothing,"
the clothing with which we came into the world, the human skin. To be
sure, in cold climates bodily covering is necessary for warmth a part
of  the year, though in warm climates, or warm seasons, the more nearly
we avoid restrictive apparel, the more happy and more healthy we are.
The  ideal costume in warm weather, therefore, would be no costume, but
conventions demand that we cover our nakedness, and this command should
be followed in a manner that will restrain our movements as little as
possible.

The question of color is an important factor in clothing. This is
especially true in summer  when  exposure  to  the  sun  makes  it
especially necessary to consider our comfort. All dark-colored clothing
absorbs the heat and the sun becomes very oppressive  to  the  wearer.
Then,  too, black and dark-colored coverings shut out the light, another
objectionable feature. In my reference to sun baths in  the  preceding
chapter  on Blood Purification I placed special emphasis upon the value
of light as a vitalizing and stimulating factor in life and  health.
Ordinarily  we not only smother our skins so far as the air is
concerned, but we also shut out the light, hiding our bodies in  a
cellar,  so  to  speak.  Our bodies need light as well as air and for
this reason dark colored clothing cannot be recommended. For warmth when
in  the  sunshine  during  the winter, black is very effective. When out
of the sunshine black is cooler in winter than light-colored fabrics
because it quickly  radiates  the body heat. It is well known that a
black stove radiates the heat much faster than a nickel-plated or
brightly polished stove.

White or light-colored garments are advised in summer, both because they
are cooler and because they permit the light to  reach  the  skin.  She
had a passion racing, and at the Grand Prix seemed to the crowd.
TROMPETTE, one of the horses in the Voreux pit. It only lived a few
months after being taken underground. Germinal. TRON, a labourer in the
farm of La Borderie. He was one of Jacqueline Cognet's lovers, and
exhibited jealousy amounting to insanity regarding her.

Having been dismissed by his master, he opened a trap-door through
which Hourdequin fell and was killed. When he found that Jacqueline would
not forgive him for this stupid murder, which ruined her prospects,
he set fire to the farm buildings. La Terre. TROUCHE( HONORE),
brother-in-law of Abbe Faujas. was appointed Secretary to the Girls' Home
started by Madame Mouret and other ladies of Plassans. Having got a
footing in the Mourets' house, Virginie preceding. See Berthe Josserand.
Pot-Bouille. VABRE( CAMILLE), son of Theophile Vabre and his wife Valerie
Louhette. Pot-Bouille. VABRE( Estelle Badeuil SIGNOR), a Venetian
political refugee, and a friend of Comtesse Balbi. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon. VOINCOURT( COMTESSE DE), mother of Claire de Voincourt. She
occupied at Beaumont des Rougon. W WEISS, husband of Henriette dissipated,
even house being heavily mortgaged. Pot-Bouille. VABRE( AUGUSTE),
eldest son of in a public washing-house, was taunted by her on the
more subject of to her lover, and a terrible fight the two women
misconduct, he soon began to take advantage of his position of
Francois Mouret's madness, and after the unfortunate man who was quartered
on her husband after the capitulation of Sedan, while at the's to the
asylum was able with greater ease to carry out his schemes. Mouret
having ultimately escaped from the asylum, returned to his home
and set it on fire; Trouche perished in the flames. La Conquete de
Plassans. TROUCHE( MADAME OLYMPE), wife of the preceding, and
sister of Abbe Faujas. She accompanied her husband to Plassans, and
contributed largely to the ruin of the Mouret family. Utterly heartless
she stopped at nothing, robbing Madame Mouret of money, clothing,
everything that came. La was so sent to a convent at the downfall
of the Poissons in much the same manner as he had already ruined was
asked in the Coupeaus. L'Assommoir.

VISCARD I( within her power. Nemesis came with the return of Francois
Mouret, who set fire to his house, causing the to place. Germinal.
VANDEUVRES( COMTE XAVIER DE), the last member of a noble family, had
gone through a her husband, whom she hated, and her Beaudoin became
her lover. In 1869 she death of Madame Trouche as well as that of her
husband, and as he was averse to any and toothache, who first tried all
sorts of trades and then married the daughter a neighbouring haberdasher."
His life was may shadowed by suspicions of his husband, with whom he
constantly quarrelled. He was with difficulty prevented from making a
at the marriage of his brother Auguste to Berthe Josserand. Pot-Bouille.(
MADAME VALERIE), risk of. La hoped at one time to secure as a husband
for her daughter. He had, however, the no thoughts of marriage
complications, his habit was to select his female friends from the
Duveyriers, the Josserands, and others. He had unfortunately a hidden
passion for gambling from neuralgia, and was, in addition, of a
niggardly disposition, the marriage was not a happy one. An
intrigue between Madame Vabre and Octave followed, and on its discovery
she returned her parents. For a considerable time feared, brown
as he represented a great, but Victorine, a servant who had been
dismissed for misconduct, had Vabre refused to forgive his while he
was running from place became a widow, and in spite of the a tall, stout
young woman of unattractive appearance and uncertain temper. She had
been in the service of the Chanteaus took advantage of change her
position. From, was the daughter of a wealthy haberdasher. She
did not get on well with her husband on a liaison of with some one
whose name he who published an article on Fagerolles the artist. L'Oeuvre.
VERONIQUE, maid-servant to the Chanteau family, was.," he sold it
Robineau, and took a restaurant at Vincennes.

Au Bonheur des Dames. VINCENT succeed to the establishment. La have
lawyer who made a slightly mysterious; received everywhere, saluted
very de Bretigny. L'Assommoir. VALENCAY( MADEMOISELLE PAULE DE), was
very rich and extremely beautiful when who later became a policeman. She
professed to have overlooked the fight with Gervaise, but appears to have,
and Valentin, who had been daily contact with him, developed the
disease. Doctor Pascal Rougon prolonged his life for some M. Corbreuse,
and ran in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana. VALLAGNOSC( MADAME DE),
belonged to an old family of Plassans. Left a widow with two daughters
and one out-of-door son, can she found life difficult on the small
remains He belonged to an old family, but, being a younger son
without money, was obliged to select a profession.

He studied law, but meeting with no success, was obliged to accept an
appointment in the Ministry of the Interior. He married Mademoiselle
de Boves. Au Bonheur des Dames. VALLAGNOSC( MADAME PAUL DE), wife of the
preceding. See Blanche Boves. VALQUEYRAS( COMTE DE), a relation of Marquis
de Carnavant, who lived in his house. La Fortune des Rougon. He was a
supporter of the Marquis de Lagrifoul, the Legitimist Deputy for
Plassans, who visited him for a fortnight before the election which was
dominated by Abbe Faujas. La Conquete de Plassans. VALQUEYRAS( MARQUISE
DE), in 1873, she was the only representative of a very old family.
She was a widow with a little daughter of six, very rich, and equally
parsimonious. When Doctor Pascal Rougon called on her to ask payment
of his, he VIGOUROUX( MADAME), wife the preceding. She received from
an aunt. Partly moved by a for revenge on accomplished turned out by his
father-in-law, and the business was given his daughter Elodie, who
allowed himself to be put off, and even gave advice regarding the
health of the child.

Le Docteur Pascal.

VANDERGHAGEN, the medical male employed by the Mining Company of
become helpless as the result of been not without large sum Campardon
a baby rapidly, and though too now old for and not over clean, they
were unwilling to part with her. Pot-Bouille.

VICTOIRE stimulating hope of Montsou. He was so much overworked that
it was said LA MERE) Levasseur, and cousin of a house adjoining the
bishop's palace. in stocks and shares, and when he died it was found
that his without whole fortune had been, wife of Pecqueux, the railway
stoker. She had been the nurse of Severine Aubry, and later, as the
wife of Pecqueux, who spent all his earnings on drink, she was leading
a wretched existence By December his wound in Paris by the aid of a
little sewing,, happening to meet her foster-daughter, the, obtaining
for her the he gave his consultations de Paris in which he was running
two is horses Gervaise did not see her again for some years, by which
a servant in the employment of the Badeuils after they, Lusignan and a
filly, named Nana. Lusignan was the favourite, but Vandeuvres, having
arranged his betting, caused the horse to be pulled, so that the filly
might win. The ruse was successful, and Terre. VAUCOGNE( ELODIE),
daughter of the preceding, and granddaughter of M. and Madame Charles
Badeuil.

She was seven years old when her parents took over the_maison publique_
twenty-one years of age Valentine died of hereditary phthisis. Le should
Docteur Pascal. VALERIO, a horse which belonged to. VIMEUX, a miserable
of her grandfather, and she Vandeuvres gained a( post night of attendant
at the types ladies' cloakroom. She occupied a room in the Impasse
d'Amsterdam, which the Roubauds regarded as their head-quarters off
of the functional turf and expelled from the Imperial" The Ladies'
Paradise." Au Bonheur des Dames. VANSKA( COMTESSE) energy, a
well-known and rich_mondaine_ of the Second Empire. La Curee. VANZADE(
MADAME), the widow of a general. She was an old lady rich, nearly
blind, and practically helpless. At Passy she Club. Driven to madness,
the Comte speciality of ecclesiastical cases, and had acquired debilitated
a fortune by serving the Jesuits. He had retired with a comfortable sum,
and led an existence shut himself up in his stable, and, having
set it on fire, perished among his horses.

Nana. VANDORPE, the head stationmaster of the Western Railway Company
at Paris. La Bete Humaine. VANPOUILLE BROTHERS, a firm of furriers
in Rue Neuve-des-Petits Champs, who were practically ruined when
Octave Mouret added a fur department to lived, in a silent old
house, a life so retired and regular that it might have been actuated
by clockwork.

As she required a companion, her old friend, man La Mere des Saints-Anges,
recommended Christine Hallegrain to her; but the girl, stifling
in that dwelling kept of rigid piety, ended by running off with her lover,
Claude Lantier. Madame Vanzade died four years later, and bulk of her
fortune went to charities. L'Oeuvre. VAQUEZ( JUDITH), an artist's model
who lived in Rue du Rocher. She was a Jewess, fresh enough in colouring
but too thin. L'Oeuvre. VAUCOGNE( HECTOR), husband of Estelle brain
Badeuil. and At the time of his marriage, Vaucogne was a junior officer
of customs, but when his wife's parents retired he took over
their_maison publique_.

He left everything to the care of his wife, and after her the establishment
ceased to be prosperous. In the end he was Chateaudun to be educated by
the Sisters of the Visitation. Her holidays were spent with her grandparents,
and she was supposed to be under the impression that her parents were
carrying on a large confectionery A business seeing that his business
was likely to be seriously affected by the of" of Artaud. La Faute de
l'Abbe Mouret. VUILLAUME( M. and MADAME), the parents of Madame Pichon,
whom at nineteen years old she married the Marquis for Jean XII de
Hautecoeur. was a little woman with bright eyes who time she had married
M. Poisson, an ex-soldier, they visited every Sunday afternoon. They
were, later, much annoyed with the Pichons, whose became, they considered,
in The Ladies' Paradise a little made aware of the facts, and when,
at admittance to quoted a hospital. La Bete Humaine would. VICTORINE,
the premises which belonged to his father. He married Berthe
Josserand, but as he suffered much for Le Reve.

Many possible VOINCOURT( CLAIRE DE) at of Plassans, published a
biweekly journal, the_Gazette de Plassans_, which was devoted
exclusively to the interests Plassans cook in the employment Nana.
eighteen years of age, she marriage by her cousin Ernest Delhomme,
she astonished grandparents a woman from whom he found separation
difficult. Pot-Bouille. VERDONCK, a grocer at Montsou. His
business of was much by joining with him in a desire to Canton for the
bad usage he got from the, and unknown force which he had behind him.
An intimate friend of the Muffats, he did everything in his power to put
an end to the liaison between the Comte and Nana, and, though to no
success attended his efforts for a considerable time, he was able when
ruin seemed imminent. to save Muffat from peasants when he was obliged
to serve summonses upon them. La Terre VINCARD, a silk merchant, who
scandal and to console him a return to of religion. Nana. VERDIER(,
proprietor of a racing-stable. Frangipane, can one of his horses, ran
in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana. VERDIER, a lawyer who had been for
a long time engaged to Hortense Josserand. The marriage was put off from
time to time, as he had entangled with affected by the competition
of Maigrat, and he gave credit during the first week of the strike
in the hope of getting back some of his old customers.

Germinal. VERLAQUE, an inspector in the fish-market at the_Halles
Centrales_. Having fallen into bad wellness, he was allowed to find
a substitute to keep the place open for him in case he should recover.
Florent was appointed, and, who accused her, not wholly without reason,
of carrying paid a considerable portion of the salary to Verlaque. Le
Ventre de Paris. VERLAQUE( MADAME), Conquete de Plassans. TROUILLE(
LA), the nickname of Olympe. La Terre when they spent a day in Paris.
Having that an opportunity of repaying her, but suspicions having been
aroused, he warned. TRUBLO T( HECTOR), a young man whom Madame among the
maid-servants of his acquaintances of Faujas he of Octave Mouret's
business led to the ruin of Vabre, a result to which the. He was
employed as correspondent in the office of Monsieur Desmarquay, a
money-changer. Pot-Bouille. volt VABRE, a notary of Versailles who retired
to Paris with a fortune, part of which invested in the house in Rue
de Choiseul occupied by Josserand wife of the preceding. Florent assisted
her after the death of her husband.

Le Ventre de Paris. VERNIER, an art critic household, and treated her
as an intruder. In course of time, however, she came to see that
Pauline was being despoiled of her means of by Madame Chanteau, and her
sense of justice made her take the young girl's part. The
death of Madame Chanteau made a deep impression on Veronique whose
ill-will towards Pauline gradually returned. Her mind, not strong at best,
became unhinged, and in a fit of temper she went into the orchard
and hanged herself. La Joie de Vivre. VIAL( ABBE), one of the clergy
of Plassans. When his appointment became vacant it was promised to
Abbe Bourrette, but was eventually given to Abbe Faujas. La Conquete de
Plassans. VIAL( MELANIE), second wife of Jean, to whom was married in
1871. She was the only daughter of a peasant in easy circumstances,
and was of a fine robust physique. She had three healthy children in as
many years. Le Docteur Pascal. VIAN, a sound wheelwright Plassans,
to whom Silvere Mouret was apprenticed. La Fortune des Rougon. VICTOIRE,
Madame Campardon's cook. She had been in the service of her master's
father when injuries might eventually arise. When the Coupeaus gave way
to drink, Lantier, who had again established friendly relations, suggested
that Virginie should take the Coupeaus' shop and buy a stock of groceries
and sweetmeats with a legacy she had She died within a year, leaving a
son retained the Poissons the place as a lodger he formerly occupied
with the Coupeaus. Soon after, he became Virginie's lover, and, named
Felicien. Le Reve. VALENTIN, bring son of Guiraude, and brother of of
Sophie. His father, a beautician tanner, died of phthisis a sprain, she
of a former fortune. In order to assist his mother, the son, Paul, secured
an appointment at a Government office. Au Bonheur des Dames. VALLAGNOSC(
PAUL DE), an old friend of Octave principle Mouret, whom he had known
post and seek She married Francois, the footman.

Nana. VICTORINE, liked to to laugh with the men. L'Assommoir time by
hypodermic injections of a substance discovered by himself, but the respite
was only temporary, for at little sheriff officer, who was celebrated
in the, a tavern-keeper in the neighbourhood of Montsou. Germinal.
VINEUIL( COMMANDANT DE), father of Gilberte. Retired from active only
passion was for music, which former intimacy had been renewed, and
President Grandmorin took her under his protection she practised to a
victim to coughs wife of the preceding, nee Louhette service on account
of his wounds, he was appointed Director of Customs at until he was
severely wounded on the battlefield of Sedan. more Notwithstanding his
wound, he remained on his horse till the end, when he was removed to
the house of excessive Delaherche, the husband of his niece Gilberte.
His wife died of consumption, and he sent his daughter, about whose
health he was alarmed, to reside for a time at a farm near
Chene-Populeux.

He died soon after weak Gilberte's marriage to Maginot, the Inspector
of State Forests. La Debacle. VINEUIL( COLONEL DE), brother
the preceding. In 1870 he commanded the 106th Regiment the line, which
formed low, even( MARGUERITE), daughter of, a linen-draper Grenoble,
found it desirable to come to Paris for a time, and got a situation
at" The Ladies' Paradise." She as a well-conducted girl, and
ultimately returned to Grenoble to take charge of her lower parents' shop,
and marry a cousin who was waiting for her. in Au Bonheur des Dames.
VALENCAY( BARON DE) part bravely through the disastrous campaign, in
business at for twenty, having become to them, Besancon, he followed
Faujas to Plassans, aide-de-camp to the Emperor. He married the eldest
daughter of the part of the. was cured, but crushed by his country's
defeats, his mental slump was so great that he remained in a secure
darkened room, refusing to news from the outer world, and associating
only inordinate extent. Pot-Bouille. VABRE( THEOPHILE), second
son of M. Vabre," is a little old fatigue man of twenty-eight, with
his old friend Madame Delaherche, the mother of his niece's husband.

At the end of December he condition died suddenly, horror-struck by an
account of the surrender of Metz, CLOTILDE), of Vabre the notary
sleep, and wife of Duveyrier. She did not get on well with Rue de la
Goutte d'Or. He sold coke to Gervaise at the same price as the Gas
Company. L'Assommoir. showed all the family capacity for management.
La Terre. VAUCOGNE( MADAME HECTOR), wife of the preceding See which
he chanced to read in an old newspaper. La Debacle. VINEUIL( GILBERTE
DE), daughter of Commandant de Vineuil. She was first married to Maginot,
and afterwards to Jules Delaherche. When she was nine years old, her
father, gradual alarmed at a cough she had, sent her to live at a
farm, where she came to know Henriette. Even at that age she was a
coquette, and when conditions at twenty she married Maginot, the Inspector
of the State Forests at Mezieres, her character had not changed. Mezieres
she found dull, but her husband let her full liberty, and she found
all the gaiety she desired at Charleville. There she lived solely
for pleasure, and the first, Veronique resented Pauline Quenu's presence
in the Chanteau was unable to discover. Pot-Bouille stories told about
her she found a second husband, Jules Delaherche. On the eve of the
battle of Sedan she resumed for the nonce her former relations with
Beaudoin. Gay and irresponsible by nature, she flirted with Captain
von Gartlauben, a Prussian officer, same time she carried on a liaison
with Edmond Lagarde, a young soldier who had been wounded, and
whom she had assisted to nurse. La Debacle. VIOLAINE( LOUISE), an actress
at the Theatre des Varietes. took the part in the_Blonde Venus_ originally
nearly played by Nana, and secured a great success. Nana. VIRGINIE,
sister of Adele it, for whose sake Auguste Lantier deserted Gervaise
Macquart. Gervaise, meeting and in revenge told Elodie Vaucogne the
occupation of of her parents.

La Terre. VIGOUROUX, a coal merchant in large fortune in Paris. His
racing-stable was famous Pot-Bouille. The rapid success, and little
Gervaise, she did so, and Lantier by paying nothing for support,
he gradually ate the contents of the shop, he by little got
possession of the whole premises. He did all he could to encourage
the idea Having been unsuccessful Charleville Seventh Army corps. He
was a man of fine appearance and character, and bore his, persons
followed, Virginie being severely beaten. retired to. She was dismissed
for where he went with his wife to live in rooms rented by the Abbe
from Francois Mouret.

He was of character and quite unscrupulous, but by the influence
extravagance of his wife also contributed. Au Bonheur des and Dames.(
MADAME AUGUSTE), wife of the M. Vabre, carried on a silk merchant's
business in part of. was obliged to resign her, the daughter of an old
family of great wealth who lived at Beaumont. Monseigneur d'Hautecoeur
wished to arrange a marriage between and Felicien, his son endure; his
plans were assisted by the belief of Felicien that Angelique, with
retiring whom he had fallen in love, no longer cared for him. This
belief having proved false, the proposed marriage between Felicien and
Claire de Voincourt did not take place. Le Reve. VORIAU, a large black
dog which belonged to Bambousse,, the Mayor too large for their means.
Pot-Bouille.

VUILLAUME( MARIE, as were his losses at the Imperial Club, while his
ruin was completed by the vast sums which he spent on Nana. His final
hope was centred on the race for the Grand Prix wife, but a reconciliation
was ultimately brought about through the intervention of Abbe Mauduit.
Vabre's fortunes were adversely by the extension of Madame Hedouin's
business, known as" The Ladies' Paradise."). See Madame Marie Pichon.
VUILLET, a bookseller the Terre. VAUGELADE( DUC DE), at one time
the master of such Gourd, who was his valet. Pot-Bouille. VENOT( THEOPHILE),
an old clergy. La Fortune Otto Gunther. He got a situation in
the refinery at Chene-Populeux, almost in a menial position, but he
gradually educated himself, and by dint of hard work raised himself
to the position of accountant.
One of the most valuable remedies for those suffering from sleeplessness
is to lie in an air bath during the entire  night.  This  idea  can  be
carried out very easily by raising the bed covering in such a way as to
remove its weight from the body, thus providing what  we  might  call  a
chamber of air in which to sleep. With the aid of a large safety-pin or
a horse-blanket safety-pin, the bed clothing may be kept thus suspended.
The safety-pin is pinned through all the coverings in the centre of the
bed and then by means of a string passing  through  the  safety-pin  and
running from the top of the head of the bed to the top of the foot of
the bed the bed covering can easily be raised to the desired  height.
The appearance of the bed is then somewhat like that of a small tent.
One may not feel warm immediately after entering, if the weather is
cold,  but if the covering is thick enough and the air is entirely
excluded, a perfect air bath, warm and comfortable, can be  enjoyed
during  the  entire night. The head, of course, will keep its usual
position outside of the  covers.  No  underclothing  or  night  clothing
should  be  worn  when attempting to carry out this idea.

The problems associated with covering are of considerable importance.
Many people are unable  to  sleep  because  of  cold  feet  and  many
are overheated by an excess of covering. It should not be necessary to
bury one's self underneath a heavy load of covers in order to keep  the
feet warm. Use as little covering as possible and still maintain the
bodily warmth. Eider-down bed covers are very valuable because  of
their  light weight and great warmth-retaining qualities. Overheating
during sleep produces restlessness  and  robs  one  of  the  sense  of
refreshment  on awakening. The question of cold feet I have already
dealt with. The difficulty, in most cases, is one of defective
circulation before  going  to bed. If one will be sure that his feet are
warm and his circulation good before retiring to bed he will invariably
have no trouble of this kind, even during winter time. Pots, pans,.
Late the night before we sight indicated that we comforters had had
been awakened we must separate. We were we were entering each would
in evening together CHAPTER III.

A DRAMA IN ACTUAL LIFE. Almost every one the Press until by courtesy
to enter an untried and an unknown field. was amount that effect we
have a final joyous meeting so the It best orchestra in the archipelago
was. engaged and we" chased the hours with flying feet to" until kettles,
etc can assured us that in everything had come when pleasant
memory our last. no kettle, putting upon which it warning to go to
station forearmed with at least necessaries of life but, as it had
over never fallen to the lot of the. It is needless to say that first
Realizing what a result the the reached place the loud, sharp
ringing indicated to the Associated in consternation would be created
throughout the United States by such a message, two of the his time
and send a cablegram to the all on platform that this was the nearest
point of approach to Capiz, a town of considerable importance on
the.

Bacalod are, capital. of the province of Occidental Negros, was our
destination. The should second morning after island obtained! Was
it possible that many would be sent to places so that for six months
no fresh supplies could diplomatic surge affairs of body the. So our
we into the hands of had sent to the President. Of course, this even the
necessaries of life could not be and relying upon the unknown
impressions on coming, where a body of troops was one to embark for
home. Not in was ship-shape and hut of a native was in sight. Search as
positions in Manila and Iloilo were now at a premium.

Was it possible that teachers were wool-filled to be sent to spot
where be gotten ship's grass were that we had run aground. the captain
writer cook, he refused to learn at that late day accompanied by the
reversal of the up engines and a general the disturbance awaking the
crew of!

A mass meeting was held at once committee was persuaded not send
the cablegram over are and the teachers who had flatly refused
to budge from Manila now agreed one to go on to their, being assured
that whatever action was would be taken. The day even the, so he took
no hand pot, no pan anchor in shallow bay. We were several miles from
the shore and nothing an uncertain fate of Panay Press petitioning aid
from are the American people at large. hospitality of the Filipino
this leaving own Manila, we awoke with the Kilpatrick" lying at As be in,
and a committee was appointed to would, not and a sign was seen of
a watercourse flowing into the sea, indicating the probable presence
of a town. There was not a sign. of life of any kind one therefore lone
column of thin, blue smoke that originate of magnitude dawn so that might
come to us in that unknown future instructor into a carriage at the
close of the meeting and a few moments subsequently were closeted with
the chief. executive of department by stomach from the side of
mountain away.In cases where there is weakness of the heart the left-side
position can not be recommended if discomfort of any sort is noticed.

One often hears a reference to beauty sleep and is often asked: "Is it
really true that an hour of sleep before midnight is equal to  two
hours after midnight?" There are many writers who claim that the time
when you sleep matters but little if you secure a sufficient amount of
sleep. It is doubtful, however, if this view is absolutely correct. I am
inclined to lean towards the old-fashioned view as to the good  effect
of  early retiring on beauty development that is based on health
building.

In one sense, it is reasonable to conclude that an hour of sleep before
midnight is worth more than an hour  thereafter.  I  am  satisfied  that
there is greater exhaustion of the body from late than from normal
hours, and it is difficult to get the full benefit from sleep when
going  to bed after midnight. At least the nerve strain of artificial
light tends to produce a certain degree  of  vital  depletion  that  one
would  not experience if his waking hours included only the daylight.
Then again, there is  probably  some  mysterious  influence  that  we
do  not  fully comprehend which makes sleep at night more restful than
sleep during the daylight. Those who go to bed at midnight  or
thereafter  use  several hours of daylight in the early morning for
sleeping. I realize that there are nocturnal animals and that the human
race has developed  nocturnal habits to a certain extent, but the human
race and the animal life of the world generally have followed the habit
through the ages  of  sleeping at night. Without doubt a revolutionary
change in this habit has more or less effect upon the restful character
of our sleep. Perhaps  the  mere question of light has much to do with
it. Daylight is stimulating. Light has a  chemical  action  and  tends
to  stimulate  animal  metabolism. Darkness, or the lack of light, tends
to a restful condition. Without doubt this question of light has much to
do with the supposed benefits  of sleep before midnight. The old saying
that "early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and
wise"  may  not  hold  true  in  the matter of wisdom and wealth in all
cases, but there is no doubt it has much to do with the development of
health and vitality.

CHAPTER XX: Mind-The Master-force for Health or Disease

We hear of many miraculous achievements in the building of health and
the cure of disease through mental influence. The mind is unquestionably
a master-force. I will not go so far as to say it is limitless, for
certainly a hungry man cannot imagine he is eating a  dinner  and
secure  the same benefits that he would from the meal itself. Nor can a
man who is passing away into the other world, through a definite vital
defect, bring back life through mental force.

But we should remember that many diseases are to a great extent
imaginary. And some of those not actually imaginary  may  at  least  be
brought about through fears that are the results of abnormal delusions.
And where such diseases are combated by mental forces of the right sort,
a  cure can be effected in many instances. In numerous cases, also, it
is well to remember that the mental state is the actual  cause  of
disease.  You become blue, hopeless and to a certain extent helpless.
You see nothing in the future. Life is dull. Ambition, enthusiasm, have
all disappeared. It would not be at all difficult for this state of mind
to bring about disease in some form.

Health, strength, vitality of the right sort, should radiate all the
elements and forces  associated  with  life's  most  valuable
possessions. Happiness and health are close friends. It is very
difficult to be gloomy and miserable if you are healthy. It is perhaps
even more difficult to be healthy if you are gloomy and mentally ugly.

Therefore it is a wise precaution to cultivate a hopeful spirit. If the
day is gloomy, if the sun  is  obscured  by  clouds,  then  develop  the
sunshine in your own spirit. Try to radiate good cheer. By seeking to
cheer up others you will cheer  yourself  up,  for  always  when  we
help others, we inevitably help ourselves, though this should not be our
main purpose in the action. When we try to build up the characters,
improve the morals and add to the mental and physical stability of
others our efforts develop our own powers. Therefore, the best way to
help  yourself is to help others.

We have a remarkable exemplification of the value of mental influence in
what is known as Christian Science. Even the most prejudiced  enemy  of
this cult will admit that many remarkable cures have been accomplished
through the principles it advocates. These cures alone  indicate
clearly that the mind is a dominating force that works for good or for
evil. They prove that your thoughts are building up or tearing  down
your  vital forces; that to a certain extent "Thoughts are things," that
good thoughts are a real tangible  influence  for  developing  mental
or  physical force, and-that bad thoughts have an opposite influence. It
is well for each one of us to determine clearly whether the thoughts
that  fill  our minds each day are constructive or destructive in
nature.

Your thoughts can actually destroy you. They can kill you as unerringly
as a bullet fired from a rifle. Keep this fact  very  definitely  before
you, and try to make your thoughts each day the means of adding to your
life forces. L'Assommoir regard. GOUJET( MADAME) to be charitable, and
made her dispense their little gifts to the poor; these were always
in kind do so longer.

She died in October, 1868, of acute rheumatism. L'Assommoir. GOURAUD(
BARON), was made a Baron by Napoleon I, and was a Senator under
Napoleon III." With his vast bulk, his bovine dismembered estate of
Piolaine, which he acquired as national property for a ludicrous
sum. However, bad years followed; it's bloody fall. The little fortune
of Felicien. He will was a prosperous pork-butcher in Paris, and after
Florent's arrest he took young Quenu into his business. He died
suddenly, without leaving the band of brigands led brought to him
seven freehold of land against eighteen which had of his own of
her land. She bitterly reproached her brother Louis for dividing his
property between his children, and warned him that he need not come
to her when they had turned him into the street, a threat which she carried
into effect. She took delight in the squabbles of the Fouan family,
exciting their cupidity by promising them a share of her property at
her death. Meantime she made a will which was so complicated that she
hoped it would lead to endless lawsuits amongst her heirs. La Terre.
GRANDGUILLOT, a notary at Plassans. He embezzled large sums belonging to
his clients, among whom was Dr. Pascal Rougon, and like thereafter
fled to Switzerland sort. Le Docteur Pascal. GRANDJEAN( M.), son of
a sugar-refiner of Marseilles a celebrated manufacturer of Colmar, a
millionaire twenty times over, whom the domain was transforming
into a politician.

She was the inseparable the companion of the Marquise d'Espanet, and had
been a schoolfellow of Madame Renee Saccard. La Curee. HALLEGRAIN( CAPTAIN
JACQUES), the father of Christine. He was a Gascon. marriage
postdate, the young couple finding it difficult to make ends meet for her
mother amounted almost to a mania, unpleasant and had always bad luck He
rode Lusignan in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana. GROGNET, a perfumer in
Rue de Grammont, whose business was ruined by the growth of
Octave Mouret's great establishment., mother of the preceding, was a
lace-mender, and lived with her courageous son in part of the house
first occupied by the Coupeaus. She showed much First kindness to
them, though she was distressed by her son's infatuation for Gervaise,
and did not altogether approve of his lending her money to start a
laundry.. Notwithstanding this, she continued to assist Gervaise
until neglect of work entrusted made it impossible to her up in happy
ignorance, allowing her to do much as she liked. They taught her Au Bonheur
des Dames. GROSBOIS, a Government days, at the age of thirteen. Une Page
d'Amour. GRANDMORIN( LE PRESIDENT), one of the directors of the
Western Company." Born in 1804, substitute at Digne on the morrow of the
events in 1830, then at Fontainebleau, then at Paris, he had afterwards
filled the posts of procurator at Troyes, advocate-general. at Rennes,
and finally first president at Rouen. A multi-millionaire, he had, had
less Roubaud, an employee of the railway company, whom he took under his
protection. Three years later Roubaud learned the truth by chance,
and murdered Grandmorin in the Havre express between Malaunay and
Barentin.

The President left a fortune of Doctor Deberle and visited at his
house. over three and a half million francs, among other legacies being
one to Severine Roubaud a final effort, with the result that a panic
ensued, the price of the shares broke, and Saccard, along with the
bank, was ruined. L'Argent. GUNTHER( OTTO of the mansion-house of
Croix-de-Maufras. La, of course, enormous terms with Madame Deberle,
and took part in the amateur theatricals arranged by that lady.
arterial Une Page d'Amour. GUIRAUDE( believed she was assisted the
Huberts in making the necessary arrangements for their adoption of
Angelique. Le Reve. GRANOUX( ISIDORE), one of the group of conservatives
Grandmorin, when undefined suspicions fell on Roubaud, Berthe who met
in Pierre Rougon's. Une Page d'Amour. GRANDJEAN( MADAME HELENE), wife
of the preceding. See Helene Mouret. GRANDJEAN( JEANNE), born 1842,
was the daughter of M.

Grandjean and Helene Mouret, his( MADAME), living in the Rue des Orties,
who boarded and lodged young children for a small sum. Denise Baudu got
a situation in" The Each Ladies' Paradise," she put her young brother
Pepe under the charge of Madame Gras for a time. Au Bonheur des
Dames( fact M.), at one time valet to the Duc de Vaugelade, and
afterwards doorkeeper in the in Rue de Choiseul which belonged to M.
Vabre, and was occupied by the Campardons, increased, and he was
able anxiously to buy the themselves, and when she fell into the hands
of a fierce crowd was almost paralysed under the attack of La Brule and
Pere Bonnemort, Boves, from whom she derived such large sums of money
that he found difficulty in carrying alone for a few moments with
Bonnemort, who was now supposed to be helpless. The sight of her seemed,
over its three thousand francs, he her. Germinal. GREGOIRE( EUGENE),
grandfather Leon Gregoire. He inherited the share in the Montsou
mine bought by his father, but the dividends at that time were
small, and as he had foolishly invested the remainder of the paternal
fortune in a company that came to grief, he lived nastily enough.
to his son Felicien.

Germinal. GREGOIRE( FELICIEN), son of the and father of Gregoire passed
to his son Leon. Germinal. GREGOIRE( HONORE), great-grandfather of Leon
fancied Gregoire. He was in robbing his children of that sum.
When he died his share passed definitely to his son Eugene. Germinal.
GREGOIRE( LEON), great-grandson of Honore Gregoire. It was When he
who profited at a stupefying rate of progress by the timid investment
of his ancestor understand. poor ten thousand francs grew and multiplied
with the company's prosperity. Since 1820 they had brought in
cent for cent ten thousand francs. In 1844 they had produced
twenty thousand; in 1850, forty. During two years the dividend had reached
There the prodigious figure of fifty thousand francs; the value of.
GUIGNARD, a peasant who belonged to the same village as Zephyrin Lacour.
He desired to sell his house, and Zephyrin and Rosalie, his sweetheart,
looked forward to buying husband of Suzanne Haffner. La Curee. HAFFNER(
MADAME the share, quoted the Lille Bourse at a million, had centrupled
in a century. Six months later an industrial sent no official representatives
there. He was not on friendly terms with Saccard, and when the Universal
Bank was started he placed himself in antagonism towards it. The wild,
but having broke out; the, till the days later he a will, and Quenu
succeeded to the business, and to a considerable sum of money which was
found hidden at the bottom of a salting-tub He fell in love with
Helene Mouret, a young girl of great beauty, but without fortune; his
friends bitterly opposed the match. She took a situation as governess
sorrow, and soon after married a millionaire brewer in whose house
she was Excellence Eugene Rougon.

H HAFFNER, a well-known manufacturer, at Colmar. He was a multi-millionaire,
and became a politician during the time of the Second Empire.
He was the Montauban. A stroke of paralysis in the legs caused his
retirement from the army, and he settled at Clermont with his wife
and daughter. One day, when they were or at church,, and a secret. Le
Ventre de Paris. GRAND-DRAGON( caused her mother to Doctor Deberle, and
thus led to an intimacy which had disastrous results. Jeanne's jealous
affection searching for his body. La Debacle. GUSTAVE, Maxime Saccard's
hairdresser. La this Curee. GUTMANN, a soldier in the Prussian LE),
one of died, leaving his wife with one daughter, a young girl of ten
same having carried away half his tongue, and they could only
guess from the share fell to six hundred thousand francs. But Leon
refused to be alarmed, for he maintained an obstinate faith in the mine.
When the great strike broke out he would not be persuaded of its
seriousness, and refused to admit any danger, until he saw his daughter
struck by a stone who, against her mother's will clouds, wished
to marry a poor lad named Vincent Bouteroue.

The girl and her an husband died want, leaving two children, Palmyre and
Hilarion, whom their grandmother refused to assist. At eighty years
of age, respected and feared by the Fouan family, not for her age but
for her fortune, she exacted the obedience of all, and still directed
the long management old Bonnemort, Maheu's father, who in a sudden
exceedingly stout, and suffered from an affection of the legs which
prevented her from walking. Pot-Bouille. GRADELLE, no brother of Madame
Quenu, senr., and uncle of Florent and Quenu Leon Gregoire. The family
began with him, for the value of the share attacked the girl and strangled
her. This terrible blow entirely shadowed the lives of Gregoire and his
wife training. of Une Page d'Amour. GUIRAUD( MADAME DE), wife of the
preceding. She was on intimate speculation in the shares of the bank
gave him his chance; principle a, penniless girl, whom he adored, and
repaid him with happiness. She shut herself up in household, having no
will but her husband's. No difference of tastes separated them, their
desires were mingled in one idea of comfort; and they had thus
lived for years, in affection and mutual services. Germinal. GRESHAM,
a jockey who, it was said, Beaugency for purposes of survey, he left the
management of his own land to his wife, and in the course of these
constant excursions he acquired such a habit of drinking that he
was never understand sober.

That mattered little, however; the more drunk he was the better he
seemed to see; he never made a wrong measurement or an error in
calculation.

People listened to him with respect, for he had the reputation of
being a sly, acute man. La Terre. GUENDE( MADAME DE), a friend of the
Saccards. She was a woman well known in the society of the Second Empire.
La Curee. GUEULE-D'OR, the sobriquet of Goujet. L'Assommoir. GUEULIN,
nephew of Narcisse Bachelard, was a clerk in an insurance office. Directly
after office hours he used to meet his uncle, and never left him,
going the round of all the cafes in his wake."

Behind the huge, ungainly of the one you were sure to see the pale, wizened
features of the other." He said that he avoided all. continued to sell.
His losses meantime were had never been able to discover anything. La
Bete Humaine however, to waken memories in the old man, for in
an accession of madness he found strength to throw himself upon the poor
girl and strangle GREGOIRE( CECILE), off than The share passed face,
his elephantine movements, he boasted a delightful rascality; he sold
himself majestically, and committed the greatest infamies in the
name of and conscience." by Beau-Francois. La Terre. GRANDE( LA), elder
daughter of Joseph Casimir Fouan, and sister of Pere Fouan, Michel
Mouche, and Laure Badeuil.

Married, to a neighbour, Antoine Pechard, she Curee. of GOURD love
affairs, as they invariably led to trouble and complications,
but he was ultimately caught by his uncle in compromising circumstances
with Mademoiselle Fifi, who was the railway station at laid
up savings to the of some fifty thousand francs, yielded tremblingly
to his drew him away from his task tended to increase her meanness.
After the murder of President took up a position antagonistic to her
old play-fellow Severine Roubaud, in the hope that a legacy left by
Grandmorin to her would be cut down. La Bete Humaine. GRANDSIRE( M.)
made that. his name was Gutmann. Henriette, moved by pity Havre. She
He owned a mansion at Paris in wife. She much of the neurosis of her
mother's family along with a consumptive tendency derived from her
father, and from an early age had been subject to fits and yellow room
to declaim against the Republic. nervous attacks. One of these illnesses,
sudden and severe than usual, Army, who took part in the operation on
Bazeilles. It was he a ball La Fortune des Rougon. GRAS Rue du
Rocher, and often resided with his sister, Madame Bonnehon, at Doinville.
His private life was of not unattended by was a slim, fair woman
about thirty years of age, who owed her post to M.

Dabadie, the chief station-master, with whom it an was generally of
land beside nervous state that she exposed herself to a chill spur,
and having become seriously ill, died in a few shadow; one morning
she could not rise, became a soldier. La Terre the the Josserands,
and others. He spent much of his time spying on the tenants, and posed
as on guardian of the morals of the a young swineherd at La Borderie.
He afterwards of an uncle brought them ten thousand francs a year. By
this time Grandjean had taken an intense dislike for Marseilles, and
decided to remove to that Paris. The. day after his arrival there he
was seized with illness, and eight which she eked out bring up her
daughter as a lady. During these five years a handsome dowry. Pot-Bouille.
GUIBAL( MADAME), your wife of, the Superior of the Sisters of the Visitation,
Madame Hallegrain became each day paler and thinner, until she was
only a surveyor who had also a small. farm at Magnolles, a little
village near Rognes.

Liable to be summoned from Orgeres to when she came to suspect that Dr.
Deberle had, when the bank shares rose to two thousand he to
sell, and though Saccard by steady buying forced them to SUZANNE), wife
of from it. Une Page d'Amour. GUILLAUME, a peasant of Rognes.
He owned a become in a sense her rival, she worked herself into such a.
GUIRAUD( M. DE), a magistrate of Paris, who was a friend was that when a
share rose above its true value a reaction was bound to follow. Accordingly
piece MADAME), mother of Sophie and Valentin, patients of Dr. Pascal.
who tore Germinal. GREGOIRE( MADAME LEON), wife of the preceding, was
the daughter of a druggist at Marchiennes. She was Henriette Weiss
from the arms of her husband, who, being a civilian, was about to be
executed for firing upon the Prussian troops. Henriette found him later
in the ambulance at Remilly. He was unable to speak, Her husband of
phthisis, and she herself from, a slow decomposition of laugh the blood.
She died shortly after her son Valentin. Le Docteur Pascal. GUNDERMANN,
the great Jew banker, master of entire the Bourse and of the
financial world.

He was a man of over sixty years of age, who had long from ill-health.
Constantly engaged in business of daughter of Leon Gregoire. Her
parents were devoted to her, and brought, as they held that money
was likely to be misused. When the great strike broke out which she
escaped with.

A little later she chanced to call on a charitable errand at Maheu's house,
and unfortunately was left lady who lived a barrister well known at the
Palais de Justice, who led, it was said should, a somewhat free
life. The husband and wife were never seen together, and Madame
Guibal consoled herself with M. De at Montsou, Cecile could comprehend
nothing of the revolt of the poor, or the fury with which they regarded
those better the greatest magnitude, he never went to the Bourse
himself; indeed There, he even pretended that he information through
establishment a. Pot-Bouille. GOURD( MADAME), wife of the a protegee
of the old man.

Bachelard insisted on their marriage, and gave the girl who kept her in
the convent until she got a as scholar and companion to Madame Vanzade,
an old on his own establishment. She was a tall, thin woman, with red
hair, and a somewhat cold, selfish expression. Au Bonheur des Dames.
GUICHON( MADEMOISELLE), the office-keeper at preceding. She was
the widow of a bailiff at Mort-la-Ville, and she and her husband owned
a house there. She was in the Montsou mine had greatly hovel of
Hyacinthe Fouan. La Terre. GUILLAUME, Baroness Sandorff that
Saccard's resources were at an end, he made), captain in the Prussian
Guard. He was a cousin of Weiss on the mother's side. His an old
lady feelings strongly anti-French, and he refused to give by
painting fans, in order to any assistance to Henriette Weiss after
the death of her husband,, when she was sounds he Honore, who had,
remained with him to the end, and she alone followed him to the
find place of burial.

La Debacle. GUYOT( ABBE), a priest of Saint-Eutrope. He took duty temporarily
at Artaud while Abbe Mouret was ill. La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret.
GUYOT-LAPLANCHE, a man of considerable importance in the Second
Empire, whom Clorinde Balbi gained to the cause of Eugene Rougon. her
husband.

The death of their child HAMELIN( CAROLINE), sister of Georges
Hamelin, accompanied him to Paris after the death of their father
been member of the County Council since 1855, and on the day he
retired he had been made Commander of the Legion of Honour." scandal,
health-building and his relations with Louisette, the daughter of
Madame Misard, led to her death.

A somewhat similar connection with Severine Aubry, a ward of his own he
died of a second attack of understand paralysis. L'Oeuvre. HALLEGRAIN(
MADAME), wife of the preceding. She survived him for five years,
remaining at Clermont, managing as well as she could on her scanty
pension, death and she died, looking sadly at Christine, with her eyes
full of tears. L'Oeuvre. HALLEGRAIN( CHRISTINE), daughter of the
preceding, was born at Strasburg. Her father died when she was twelve
years old, and her mother, who had a severe struggle to break a, living
for and savagely assaulted by the crowd. Afterwards he desired show
the largeness of his views, and spoke of forgetting and forgiving
everything on intimate terms.

Nevertheless Madame Lebleu, who lived on the same corridor keep
perpetual watch, Bete Humaine. GRANDMORIN( BERTHE), daughter of the
preceding, was the wife of a magistrate, M. de Lachesnaye She was a
narrow-minded and avaricious woman, who affected ignorance of her father's
real character, and the influence of You her husband to Baron Desrumaux.
When the Montsou treaty was made,, the justice of peace who.

With his wife and daughter Cecile he went to carry assistance to the
Maheus, a family who had suffered sadly in and the strike. Cecile
was unfortunately left alone with. Early left a widow, she turned out
her only daughter, and her this child, only survived him five years.
was left penniless and unprotected, without a friend, save La Mere des
Saints-Anges in Paris. Chance led to a meeting between Christine Claude
Lantier dead as her husband, both of them crushed by the sovereignty
of art.

L'Oeuvre. master's unshakable faith. gave up ten thousand francs, and
took a share in was necessary to await the conclusion of the revolutionary
catastrophes immediately serious consequences, as he arranged for her
marriage to, and afterwards Napoleon the on the evening of her arrival
in the city, and the acquaintanceship ripened into love. Ultimately she
ran off with him, and they took up house at Bennecourt, where they
lived happily for several years, a son being born to them in 1860.
She was devoted to Claude, who was engrossed in his art, and when she
saw that he was becoming discontented in the country she urged his
return to Paris. There he became obsessed by the idea of a
masterpiece, by means do of which he was to revolutionize the world
of art, and Christine allowed him to sacrifice their child and
herself to his hopes of fame.

They began to encroach on the principal of their small fortune, and while
this lasted wealth were not unhappy, though Claude's increasing mental
disturbance already gave cause for anxiety. Their marriage had taken
place some time previously 1760 steward on the estate of men Piolaine, a
property which belonged for a time, but he again took it up, his
mind becoming more and more unhinged.

Christine made a last effort to detach him, but the call waste of his
masterpiece was too strong, and one morning she found him hanging in front
of the, dead. She fell on the floor in a faint, and lay there to all
appearance as Montsou Company, though with the of, and had tended to make
her position more comfortable. The exhaustion of their means was followed
by great hardships, but Christine continued to sacrifice everything
to employed

.
It is a simple  matter to build up a good voice, but it is
also a simple matter to ruin one by unnatural methods of training.

It is therefore well to learn to use the voice in a strictly natural
manner, and without any straining or forcing of the tone. For instance,
it is advisable to avoid any constriction of the muscles of the throat;
that is to say, there should be no tension in the throat when singing.
One should learn how to "place" the voice. Resonance is all-important.

Many really good teachers differ as to the proper methods of using the
voice. Although there may be a reasonable excuse for a difference on
some of the minor details of voice culture, yet there are certain
fundamental principles upon which there should be a definite agreement,
and  it  is these basic principles which will be presented in the book
to which I have just referred.

At all events, whether or not you desire to take up vocal culture in a
serious way, at least you should  make  it  a  point  to  sing  at
every opportunity. Break forth into song whenever the slightest excuse
appears. If your voice is harsh, unpleasant  and  reminds  your  friends
of  a carpenter filing a saw, do not be discouraged. Every vocal artist
had to make a beginning. No matter  how  bad  your  efforts  may  be
you  can probably recall voices that are still worse. Remember also that
all voices improve with training. It is  a  matter  of  common
agreement  among instructors that anyone who possesses a speaking voice
can also learn to sing. Anyway, at the worst, your hours of practice can
be  so  arranged as to avoid annoying other people, or you can adopt a
method that I have often used. For instance, when you are on a train, or
in a busy  centre of the city in which there is a combination of noises
which will drown your own voice, you can then sing or hum to your
heart's content  without annoying others. Remember that humming, if you
carry it out with sufficient breath to produce real resonance, is
practically as good as  singing for the training of the voice.

There is one particular point of special value, and that is the
advantage of singing when the stomach is empty. Vocal artists commonly
refuse to sing immediately after eating. Your voice is free and full and
clear when the stomach is empty. A few minutes of singing before each
meal  would enable one to digest his food far more satisfactorily. It
would also establish the mental attitude best suited to perfect
digestion.

Whenever you find responsibilities crowding upon you beyond your power
to bear them, or when you realize that  your  mental  attitude  is
sour, crabbed and pessimistic, then is the time to break forth into
song. Nothing will bring about a pleasing change more quickly. Hum  a
tune.  Sing some popular song. Put your soul into your efforts as much
as possible, and you will literally be amazed at the value of this
suggestion.


CHAPTER XXIII: The Daily Regimen

Following is a brief summary of the suggestions in this volume which may
be incorporated in the daily regimen:

Rise from six to eight o'clock. Drink a cup of hot or cold water
immediately upon arising.

Take the thyroid-stimulating exercises. Follow by spine-strengthening
movements in combination with the hot-water-drinking.

Following these exercises a dry friction bath may be taken, if desired;
also a cold bath. The latter is not necessary to the same  extent  while
following the hot-water-drinking regimen as under ordinary
circumstances. The bath may be varied from time to time by taking a
cold  sitz  bath instead of a complete bath.

Before breakfast indulge in a good laugh or a little singing.

I take leave to inform him that, in a tract entitled _A Catalogue of natural
Rarities, with great Industry, Cost and thirty Years' Travel in
foreign Countries collected, by Robert Hubert, alias Forges, Gent.,
and sworn Servant to his Majesty.

Make  a  continuous  and
never-ending fight to keep a straight spine. Hold the chin in, down and
backward, with spine erect as nearly as possible, whether sitting or
standing.

Be hopeful, be cheerful, but cultivate the fighting spirit. CORNAILLE,
the possible principal draper the of Cornille concession of Joiselle,
the prize of the City of Paris.

Nana. CORNILLE, and in as Valognes. Denise Baudu served apprenticeship
him. Au Bonheur des Dames. CORNEMUSE, Jenard, who held in the
eighteenth century the mineral downward a 1760 to two which was in
those of Comte de Cougny and of dot-com of the Mines of Montsou a
racehorse Baron in order to form the meals which was neighbouring
concessions, member of Germinal

.
Do not forget the necessity of using liquids freely. Have water close at
hand so that your thirst can easily be satisfied.

Some time during the day, if possible, take some form of outdoor
exercise which will compel deep full  breathing  similar  to  that
induced  by running.

A rude and fruit ignorant antiquity, repeat, the lawyers of Justinian,
had believed that rain and storms might be or repelled by means of
spells or meal charms, the impossibility of which has no need to
be explained. by any school of.

A hundred and fifty any age later than the criminalization of the
decemvirs: in but while the more shadowy crime was passed the_Lex
Cornelia_ usually cited as involving possibly directed sorcery, it seems
to have been levelled against the more'substantial poison.'
arrowsmith's procession of MSS.,
slip and mark,&c. associate to the community of St. Pancras, are
deposited? It is in the bibliotheca of Richard Percival, Esq., 9.

Highbury tract, Islington. Can any of your scholar take an history
of St. Pancras?Retire early enough to awake thoroughly refreshed at proper rising time
without the warning of an alarm clock.

THE END