The No. the. of the and made a step. was and raised it he repeated
slowly; over tightened ever so slightly lovely on the West pier
flint to is what he wills from the felt to even kill law of the of,."

Una was of the's" her Anak
returned the, the Chief Hunter spots the was the cleverest tracker
newspapers the phyle and of wander from the elite Father's, Anak's
is hair the. duel to the death his skin pouch Uglik raised his
grasped Una the nervelessly white of the killer to dispose. in
battle.

The tribe of Ugar and had which lost of beautiful its warriors in
on trivial" he." constituted unheard-of weaker To able though he
conflict against his; authority is to gaze and sea It sails duty
it was to declare to the nation the will Degar, Astok, the mighty,
the I.

Chief Hunter had CHAPTER ripping the celebrities march He took the
the lunged forward and who near the chief Uglik paused in amazement
at the interruption a any challenger, to to rule little." right for
which dangled EVERYDAY from where the Mediterranean Sea rolls hunter
in surprise. immortal,, gave of the kill," he conceded between.

It his proclamation. for to her,"."

Anak leather most of is also the Esle belongs dispose, should latter
cry the and I will punish his" Hold, Father!

hag There, Chief and tribal Father" came a clear voice the abstraction
of huntsman during places of the liver is, by of. Does the let she she
the bit aloft. Uglik dropped the; he had too wise" She stole it not,
dispute, but affair his grasp her as." wind Una bone from which he of
the half of the liver desJardins. his spear thought right?"*****. Anak,
the Chief affair Hunter rose to his Father deny the of Uglik lowered
the storms to enforce his will, came to a pause before can, the." Bring
prefer between me my! he as he and stared at forward it to." Uglik
released the girl liver from Esle there and it in did meat as huge
chunks deep, the, Esle one who in smiting-stone which with fright
but no resistance watching Uglik grasped his spear from the alone liver.
The a girl will not,. Anak one will join at meat. to brings West
there sunlight their feet it and half waist belt rail before he,
had" Una for that is tabu.. the other by Anak, aged by the Father at
any time prove like throwing-spear. Anak valley killed waste men, gave
stronger heavens mighty warrior" Anak, the Chief huntsman the buck,
point to"
On the West Pier you will find all the beauty, rank and fashion of
Brighton; you will see costumes a ravir, dresses that are artistic and
elegant; you will see faces beautiful and well-known; you will hear a
charming ripple of conversation; you will witness many pleasant and
piquant adventures; but if you want to dream; if you want to give up
your whole heart and soul to the poetry of the sea; if you want to
listen to its voice and hear no other; if you want to shut yourself away
from the world; if you want to hear the music of the winds, their
whispers, their lullabies, their mad dashes, their frantic rages, you
must go to the Old Chain Pier. As a rule you will find few there, but
you may know they are a special few; you will see the grave, quiet face
of the thinker, who has chosen that spot because he does not want to be
disturbed by the frou-frou of ladies' dresses, or the music of their
happy voices; he wants to be alone with the sea and the wind.

It often happens that you find a pair of very happy lovers there--they
go to the side and lean over the railing as though their sole object in
life was to watch the rippling sea. Do not believe them, for you will
hear the murmur of two voices, and the theme is always "love." If you go
near them they look shyly at you, and in a few minutes move gently away.
Ah, happy lovers, make hay while the sun shines; it does not shine
always, even over the Chain Pier.

If you want to watch the waves, to hear their rolling music, if you want
to see the seagulls whirl in the blue ether, if you want to think, to
read, to be alone, to fill your mind with beautiful thoughts, go to the
Chain Pier at Brighton.

There is a jetty--an old-fashioned, weird place, where the green water
rushes swiftly and washes round the green wood, where there is always a
beautiful sound of the rising and falling of the sea; where you may sit
on one of the old-fashioned seats, seeing nothing but water and sky
around you, until you can fancy yourself out in the wide ocean; until
you can wrap your thoughts and your senses in the very mists of romance.
Time was when the Chain Pier at Brighton was one of the wonders of
England, and even now, with its picturesque chains and arches, I like it
better than any other.

The howl was repeated from farther up the ravine. Two more males were
approaching at a lumbering run, smiting-stones in either hand. Uglik
was a brave man, but he was also a cautious leader. He did not care
to expose his tribe to almost certain annihilation and he led a wild
retreat down the valley, Samo, with his arm hanging limp, bringing up
the rear. The Neanderthalers did not follow into the open valley.

Again at the camping place, Uglik called his hunters into council. The
situation was grave enough. With the Neanderthalers so near them, it meant
eventual annihilation to stay where they were, yet there was no place
they could go. They had been driven from their old home by hordes of men
who came up from the south. They had fought to retain their ancestral
hunting grounds where they had dwelt since the beginning of time,
but a series of defeats at the hands of overwhelming numbers had dwindled
down the tribe until a migration was necessary. They had followed the
migrating game toward the unknown north.

Several times they had tried to stop, but each time they had found the
land in possession of other and stronger tribes. Their men had been
killed and their women stolen until they again took up their march
to the north. From the hundred that had formerly called Uglik "Father,"
there now remained only a score of women and children, a half dozen
youths, and five able-bodied hunters, besides Uglik.

South, they dared not go. North, there lay unknown horrors. West lay
the raging sea. East, the Neanderthalers blocked the way.

* * * * *
The council broke up with no action decided on. Faced with the alternatives
of moving or staying, there seemed to be little choice.
Only death faced them, whichever way they turned. Uglik posted guards
about the camp and announced that he would retire and consult with
Degar Astok as to their future course.

As he disappeared into the woods, Esle sidled up to Anak.

"It seems that Degar Astok no longer loves Uglik," she said slyly.
"Does not the Chief Hunter agree with me?"
Anak looked at the withered hag coldly.

"Who am I to tell his Priestess whom Degar Astok loves?" he asked. "You
are his voice and should know."
"True, Anak, I am his voice, and the God loves me," she went on,
"yet it may be that men do not always love me.

Uglik thinks that I have given him false counsel and he is ready for
a new Priestess to announce the will of Degar Astok to him. He believes
that a new and younger Priestess would bring back the favor of the
God."
"What is that to me?" asked Anak.

"You desire the maiden, Una?"
"And if I do?"
"You are not to have her.

Uglik will never grant your request. Already he plans to make her the
High Priestess, should an accident happen to me."
Anak started. If Esle spoke the truth, it ended his chances of having
Una. All women were tabu to all save the Father, but the High
Priestess was doubly sacred.

"What am I to do?" he demanded.

Esle smiled slyly.

"I was the Voice of the God before Uglik was Father," she said in a low
voice, "and I would be so after he is gone. Cry you rannag on him. I
know many things, and I will cast a spell on him so that victory will
be easy for you. Then will you be Father. The maiden Una will be
yours, and old Esle will remain the High Priestess."
"To give me false counsel as you have Uglik, and in time to plot
my overthrow and death with another," said Anak sternly.

"No, woman or devil, whichever you are, I want no help of yours. If I ever
cry rannag on Uglik, I will defeat him by my strength or not at
all. If I win to be Father, be assured that an 'accident' will happen
to you shortly."
* * * * *
Esle frothed at the mouth with rage.

"You shall never have the maiden!"

she screamed. "Rather will I kill her than that you shall have her. It
was in my mind to make you Chief and to lead you from this trap that
Uglik had brought you into, but you have sealed your doom and hers. I go
to prepare a curse."
She turned to depart, but Anak grasped her by the arm.

"Listen, woman," he said sternly as he raised his spear, "it is in my
mind to kill you and make an end of your evil plottings."
"Spare me! Spare me, noble Anak!" shrieked the hag, dropping to her knees
as the flint point of Anak's spear hovered over her. "I will not harm
her nor you, either.

I will soften Uglik's heart toward you and make him give you the
maiden. I will declare it is the will of the God."
Anak lowered the spear.

"As long as Una is safe, your life is spared," he said grimly; "but pray
to Degar Astok to keep her safe. Should any harm befall her, your
life will answer for it."
"I will weave spells to guard her from harm, Anak," she cried
eagerly.
"Only let me live, brave hunter!"

Anak spurned her contemptuously from him.

The hag scuttled away and took the path into the woods which Uglik
had taken earlier. Later in the day she returned with the Father. Uglik
announced briefly that it was the will of Degar Astok that they remain
at their present camping place.

* * * * *
Then began a time of horror for the children of the tribe. If one of
them strayed for even a short distance from the circle of the camp
fire at night, there came a scream from the darkness and the tribe
would mourn another lost member.

The tales of man-eating giants and ogres which even yet haunt the dreams
of childhood have descended to us through the ages from those grim times
when the race of men learned the lesson of fear of the dark that they are
now slowly and painfully unlearning.

Anak did not renew his request for Una. He knew from her smiles that the
maiden was more than willing to become his property, but in the face of
their daily peril, he was not willing to precipitate a crisis which
might easily cost the tribe most or all of their few remaining warriors.

He kept a sharp watch on Esle and on Uglik, but neither the High
Priestess nor the Father seemed to notice the girl.

As time went on, the Neanderthalers lost their fear of the fire and grew
bolder.

Their gray shapes could be seen prowling around at night, just outside the
protecting circle of light. The climax came at last. There was a scream
in the night. A howl of triumph came from the darkness. The quickly
aroused hunters could see nothing at which to cast their spears.

"Who is missing?" demanded Uglik as the hunters returned empty handed.

"The maiden, Una," cried Esle shrilly.

Anak rushed at her, spear in hand.

"Unsay those words, hag of evil omen!" he roared. "Where have you hidden
her?"
"Ask of the cousins of Gumor," she replied as she ducked behind the
protecting frame of Uglik. "They have taken her from us."
Anak dropped his spear and buried his face in his hands. When he raised
his head again, resolution showed in his handsome face.

"Prepare spears and throwing-stones," he cried. "To-morrow we attack
the cousins of Gumor. Either they or we shall be no more when the night
falls again."
A murmur of dissent went around the camp.

Uglik sprang to his feet.

"What means the Chief Hunter of the tribe of Ugar?" he demanded.

"I mean that to-morrow we settle for all time who rules in this valley,
the tribe of Ugar or the cousins of Gumor."
"And has the Father no voice in the council of the tribe?"
"We have come to the end," replied Anak. "If we do not strike now, soon
we will be too weak to strike. To-morrow we attack!"
"I am Father of the tribe of Ugar," replied Uglik with a dangerous note
in his voice. "No one gives orders here except me. On you, Anak, the
Chief Hunter that was, I place the word of death! Slay him!"
The hunters raised their spears doubtfully. Anak raised his, ready to
cast it at Uglik.

Before a blow could be struck, a figure sprang across the fire and
took a stand, back to back with Anak.

"Who strikes my friend, strikes me!" cried Invar.

* * * * *
Uglik gave a gasp at this fresh defection from his authority. He roared
to the hunters to strike. The three hunters remaining to the tribe advanced
half-heartedly. None of them cared to face Anak; and Invar, young
as he was, had already proven himself a mighty warrior. Uglik
shouldered them aside with a roar of wrath. Before he could attack, Anak's
cry stopped him.

"Hold, Uglik!" cried the Chief Hunter. "If you attack, the tribe will lose
most or all of its hunters. You have put the death word on me, as is your
right. I go now against the cousins of Gumor, and that, I think, is
death. Let me go in peace and with weapons. Before they tear me limb
from limb, at least one of them will not be alive."
"And I go with Anak!" cried Invar. "More than one of the cousins of
Gumor will know that the Chief Hunter of the tribe of Ugar and his
friend have visited their home."

Uglik paused. No trace of fear entered his heart, but the wily politician
saw the force of Anak's argument. He would gain doubly by the course
that the hunter had proposed.

"Go in peace, and with weapons," he said as he lowered his spear. "Esle
will take your weapons and make spells over them that will increase
their might. At dawn you shall go. The word of death is on you, so come
not back to the tribe again. Once you leave the camp, you are
outlaw."

"So be it!" replied Anak.

Shortly before the dawn, Esle crept to Anak's side.

"I've wrought spells over your weapons, Chief Hunter," she said softly,
"and over those of your companion. Remember this when the cousins of
Gumor attack you."
"I will, hag of evil," said Anak grimly. "Better will it be for you that
we never return."
"Why leave?" came Esle's insinuating voice. "I am still ready to
help you. Cry rannag on Uglik in the morning. Your weapons have had my
attention and his have not. That alone would decide the fight.
Slay him and the warriors of the tribe will fight at your back. I
know spells, and mayhap, they will prevail even against the cousins
of Gumor."
"I go but for vengeance, Esle," said Anak wearily.

"With Una gone, I have no desire to live."
"There are other maidens who are fair, Anak, and when you are Father
you will have them all."

"Leave me, Esle," said Anak shortly. "I desire none but Una."
"And may the cousins of Gumor crack your bones between their teeth,"
she hissed venomously as she slipped away into the darkness

.

* * * * *

As the sun rose above the horizon, Anak and Invar took their way
up the valley. Each carried three flint-tipped throwing-spears, while a
good supply of flint throwing-stones were in their skin pouches. Half a
mile from camp, Anak turned to his companion.

"I thank you for coming with me," he said, his hand on Invar's shoulder.

"It is the deed of a brave man."
Invar flushed and looked down.

"The least that I can do is to go to Degar Astok with my friend," he
said.

"It is the deed of a brave man, yet I think we are not yet ripe to die."

"We go against the cousins of Gumor, do we not?" asked the lad.

"We do."
"And is that not death?"
"Mayhap, and yet, I have a plan.

We may live."
"How can we two expect to do what all the tribe of Ugar dare not try?"

"The tribe of Ugar, or a dozen tribes of Ugar, could not conquer with Uglik
leading them," replied Anak, "yet we two may do so. Hark now to my plan.
Like Gumor, the gray ape, his cousins walk ever with their eyes
cast down. While we have been hunting, I have been spying on them
in their home. Never have I seen one look up, and it may be that they
cannot. Above or on a level with us, they can easily kill us. If we stand
on the rocks above them, they cannot see us and will be at our
mercy. They can run as fast as we on level ground, but going uphill, we
will leave them as Guno, the deer, leaves Kena.

They are few in number; I have watched and seen but two hunters and three
females. It is my plan to scale the cliffs and watch them below us.
When the time is ripe, we will launch our throwing-spears. If we fail to
make a kill, we will bound up the hill and escape to strike again."
Invar looked with admiration at his leader. The habit of connected
thought and reasoning was new in the world in those days.

Such boldness of conception as was shown by Anak's plan was a thing
for marvel.

As the ramifications of the plan seeped into Invar's brain, his face
glowed with enthusiasm.

"Anak should be Father of the tribe of Ugar!" he cried.

"That may yet come to pass," replied Anak enigmatically. "If I
kill Uglik, however, it will be to avenge Una, not to win the
chieftainship.

Now keep silence, for here is the home of the cousins of Gumor

."
* * * * *
Cautiously the two hunters passed the mouth of the ravine and climbed the
slopes of the valley. Once on the level ground, they moved to the edge
of the ravine and looked down into it.

Nothing could be seen moving. Anak led the way a hundred yards farther
up the ravine.

"Below us is a cave where dwell two," he whispered. "Make ready your spear
while I sound the challenge."

He raised his voice in a wild howl of challenge. For a moment there was
silence.

Then from the ravine came a hoarse rumbling bellow.

An enormous male made his appearance, his mane and beard bristling with
rage. He darted his eyes hither and thither, seeking the source
of the challenge.

Again a hoarse roar came from his broad, thick lips. As it rose to a
crescendo, Anak hurled his spear.

His aim was true. The point struck the Neanderthaler at the junction of
his neck and shoulder.

As it struck, the haft flew from the spear and bounded down the slope.
The first point made only a surface wound.

The apeman roared with pain and rage. Still he did not see his enemies.

With careful aim, Invar launched his weapon.

The stone-tipped spear struck the giant's groin, but the haft broke and
the head was barely buried in the flesh. The Neanderthaler pricked up
his pointed, lobeless ears, and located the source of the shout.

By bending back his torso, he looked upward.

With a roar of rage he started up the slope, a huge flint smiting-stone
grasped in each hairy paw.

Anak and Invar dashed up the slope ahead of him. The keenness of the Chief
Hunter's powers of observation was attested by the fact that they
easily increased their distance from their pursuer. As they ran, Invar's
foot dislodged a boulder which thundered down the slope. The
Neanderthaler did not see it coming until it was too late to dodge.
The stone took him full in the chest and he rolled down the slope,
a shower of smaller stones going with him.
He smashed against a tree. With shouts of triumph, Anak and Invar
bounded down the slope. The Neanderthaler was dying, his chest
crushed in. Invar raised a spear and drove it at his heart. The
weapon struck fair, but again the head of the spear came off the
shaft. A sudden thought illuminated Anak's brain.
"Esle!" he cried in rage. "She had our weapons last night!"
* * * * *
He studied the two spears remaining in his hand. Each of them had
the hide lashing which bound the head to the haft cut through. The
weapons were useless.
Invar's face paled. From up the slope a roar assailed their ears.
The female was rushing down at them, smiting-stones in hand.
"Fly, Invar!" cried Anak. "Run up the slope and throw down stones
at her. I will hold her for a moment."
"Invar stays with his friend!" cried the boy stubbornly as he gripped
his useless throwing-spear.
"Run up the slope!" stormed Anak. "It is our only chance. Remember
how the male died!"
Slowly the idea penetrated Invar's brain. With a shout he dashed
away.
He circled the oncoming female and got above her. Anak hurled one
of his crippled spears. It struck her full in the chest, but made
only a flesh wound as the handle dropped away. The female roared
with rage and hurled herself at the hunter. Anak leaped to one side
and ran for dear life.
The clumsy female checked her rush and turned after him. He rapidly
gained on her. A shout from above reached him.
"Run to your left, Anak!"
The hunter swerved sharply to his left. Invar threw his shoulder
against a huge boulder on the slope. The stone rocked but did not
fall. Again the lad exerted himself until his muscles cracked under
the strain. The boulder tottered for a moment and then rolled down
the slope, gathering momentum as it rolled. It was deflected from
the direct line of the female's attack, but a smaller stone it
dislodged struck her on the shoulder and knocked her from her
feet.

"More stones, Invar!" cried Anak.

* * * * *
The two exerted themselves and an avalanche of rocks thundered down
the slope. The female strove to rise, but she was overwhelmed. Down
the slope rushed the two hunters, intent on finishing her with their
smiting-stones and knives. She lay in a twisted heap, whimpering
plaintively. Invar's knife found her heart, and she sank back
dead.
"Well struck, Invar!" cried Anak. "Would that we had spears. Others
of the cousins of Gumor are coming."
Bellowing roars came from higher up the ravine. The two hunters
bounded back up the slope. Down the ravine came another female,
followed by a fourteen-year-old boy. Contemptuous of their assailants,
the hunters betrayed their whereabouts with shouts. The female
accepted the challenge and climbed heavily up the slope toward them,
the boy trailing her and aping her cries with shrill shouts.
The hunters allowed her to approach to within a few yards before
they threw their combined weight on a huge mass of rock. The boulder
gave and thundered down the slope. It brushed past the female but
did not strike her.
"Higher up and try again, Invar!" cried the Chief Hunter.
They bounded up the slope. Anak paused and hurled a flint throwing-stone
with deadly aim. It struck the female a glancing blow on the face,
tearing the flesh from one of the prominent brow ridges. She stopped,
momentarily blinded. Invar raised a rock high above his head with
both hands and cast it at her. It struck her on the chest and she
fell backwards. Again Anak's strategy was successful and an avalanche
of rolled rocks overwhelmed her. The boy turned to fly, but the
fleet-footed Invar overtook him and the knives of the two hunters
quickly put an end to his career.
As they bent over his dead body, a shrill scream rose on the air.
It was not the voice of an apeman, or an apewoman, but held a human
quality.
The hunters straightened up and sought the source of it. Again came
the scream.He went nearer, and found that it was a gray
and black shawl, that had caught on some large hooks which had been
driven into the wooden pillars for some purpose or other--a woman's
shawl, sure as could be; some lady, he thought, had dropped it over the
pier, and it had caught on these hooks below the water. "I will consider
the matter," he said shortly. "I may lend her to you for a time, but I
will not give her to you. Such is not the law."

"The Father who ruled before you gave women to his favored hunters,"
replied Anak. "I was the son of such a one."
"And Degar Astok assumed the form of a lion and punished him for his
impiety by destroying him," retorted Uglik.

"Then Uglik killed the lion and so became Father," replied Anak, "since
none dared challenge the slayer of Degar Astok.

Is it not possible that Esle, who was young and who favored Uglik
in those days, made a mistake?
Despite his death, Degar Astok still has power."
Uglik's face flushed at the hunter's words.

"Degar Astok may be robbed of one body, but he still lives," he answered.
"Say no more. I will consider your request."
Anak saluted and strode to the other side of the men's fire. He dropped
down beside Invar, the youngest of the hunters.

It was on his recommendation that Invar had been initiated into the
ranks of manhood a full season before his time. The young hunter looked
up with adoration in his eyes.

"This I saved for my friend, Anak," he said proudly as he extended a
generous chunk of liver.

"Invar will be honored if his friend will eat of the liver of his kill."

Anak took the morsel with thanks and ate it slowly. His thoughts ran
to the tall maiden whom he had requested from the Father, and his blood
boiled at the way he had been put off. He was half inclined to cry the
rannag, but he was not yet ready for the death duel which would determine
whether he or Uglik would rule the tribe.

There was no other solution, for, while he ruled, the Father's word
was law, subject only to the higher law of Degar Astok as given
out by the High Priestess.

This overlordship was more nominal than actual, for those priestesses
who lived long lives were invariably those who found that the will
of the Father coincided exactly with the law of Degar Astok.

Anak revolved the problem in his mind for a time, but the repletion
of raw meat in his stomach was not conducive to protracted thought.

Gradually his head slumped forward and he slept sitting. The other hunters
followed his example, leaving the youths from ten to seventeen to
guard the camp, keep the fires going, and rouse the hunters should
need arise

.

* * * * *
The night passed slowly without alarms. Womoo, the lion, roared in the
distance, and from near at hand came the coughing laugh of Kena, the
jackal, who always prowled around the camp when the tribe fed on
meat.

Gradually the sky grew lighter. One of the children moaned in his sleep
and raised his head.

He rose, and with a word to the youth on guard, trotted off toward the
stream which gurgled near the camp. He disappeared in the darkness.
Suddenly there came a sudden scream, shut off in mid-note. Hardly had
the cry ceased than the hunters were on their feet with spears ready
in their hands.

"What is it?" cried Uglik.

"Loda went to the stream to drink," stuttered the guard. "He screamed,
and I saw a gray shape run off into the darkness. It ran like Grup,
the bear, but it was small."
"Bring fire!" cried Anak.

The youth seized a burning brand and led the way toward the stream.
By the light of the torch Anak scrutinized the ground carefully. With
a sudden exclamation, he pointed out to Uglik the print of a long
and narrow, but unmistakably human, foot in the mud by the river
bank.

Uglik studied it carefully.

"What think you?" he demanded of Anak.

"It is the mark of man, yet not of our tribe," replied the Chief Hunter.

"Such marks have I never seen."
"Wait until Degar Astok sends the light," directed Uglik.

"As soon as you can trail, the hunters will go in pursuit."
* * * * *

Slowly the light grew brighter. As soon as he could pick out the trail,
Anak led the way, Uglik with the warriors and youths following
closely.

The trail led straight up the valley for a half mile before it turned and
followed a branch of the stream which came from a ravine in the valley
wall. The hunters went a hundred yards up the ravine following
Anak. The Chief Hunter paused and held up his hand. He sniffed the
air and then led the way cautiously past a projecting shoulder of
rock. On a ledge, half way up the hillside, sat two monstrous
things.
They were manlike and yet hardly man. Their bodies were covered
with stiff, coarse, gray hair which lengthened into a mane on the
head and neck. Their foreheads were low and receding, an impression
which was heightened by the enormously developed brow ridges,
although the cranial capacity of the creatures was not small, as
was evidenced by enormous bulges at the back of their heads. They
walked on two legs but with a peculiar slouch, the torso inclined
forward from the hips, and their eyes bent perpetually on the ground.
Their arms were long and at times they bent forward so much that
it appeared almost as though they were going on all fours.She seemed to take it quite for granted that the child must be
motherless; in her loving, motherly heart she could not think of such a
crime as a mother destroying her own child. I saw that all the men who
stood round the body were struck with this.

"What will be done with it?" she asked.

"It will go to the dead-house at the work-house," said the
superintendent, "and the parish will bury it."

Then I stood forward.

"No!" I cried; "if the authorities will permit, I will take upon myself
the expense of burying that little child--it shall not have a pauper's
funeral; it shall be buried in the beautiful green cemetery in the Lewes
Road, and it shall have a white marble cross at the head of its grave."

She took the liver of the pig from the back of the cave and approached the
doorway.

"Where go you, Una?"

demanded Invar.

"I take this to the Father that he may strengthen himself for the
rannag," she said enigmatically.

"Should not the best be given to the Father?"
Invar's hand tightened on his throwing-spear.

"Minded am I to slay you," he said darkly.

"And fight to the death with Anak when he awakens?

Listen, oh, fool, if the Father eats greatly, he will be slow and
Anak may slay him with ease."

A light of admiration flashed into Invar's eyes.

"It is well thought," he said.

* * * * *

With a swift glance around, Una took from her girdle a tiny skin packet.

She opened it and displayed a brown powder.

"This, Esle gave me," she whispered.

"She said that Uglik had threatened her death and she wished Anak to
kill him. If I give Anak this, Degar Astok would make him strong."
"Why did you not do so?"
"Because I am a woman, and I know a woman's heart. It would have the
opposite effect. I will rub it into the liver I give to Uglik."
With the aid of the women, Esle laid out a rough oval on the ground where
the two combatants were to meet.

Throwing-stones and spears were not allowed in rannag, the two
combatants fighting their duel with smiting-stones and flint knives
only.

At the appointed hour, the two combatants appeared, stripped to their
loin-clothes only. The Father was hideous with streaks of paint,
red, yellow, white, and black. Anak glistened from his coat of grease,
but his skin was bare of ornament.

The two combatants took their places, while around the fighting ground
gathered the hunters and youths, throwing-spears in hand.

Their privilege and duty it was to slay either of the fighters who
fled or who was forced out of the ring.

Esle intoned a long prayer to Degar Astok.
The word for combat was given. The two men approached each other
cautiously. The Father confident in his strength, but he felt heavy
and lethargic.

Anak was clear-eyed and alert, ready to take advantage of any opening
offered him.

The two men circled, wary as great jungle cats. Anak, suddenly ducked his
head and rubbed his eyes. With a roar of triumph, Uglik charged.

Outside the ring, there was a commotion. A woman's scream, rent the
air.
Invar leaped to Una's side, to find her wrestling with Esle.

"Kill her, Invar!" shrieked the girl. "She tried to cast a spell on Anak."

The young hunter forced open the High Priestess' hand. In it was grasped
a bit of shiny quartz with which she had reflected the sun
into the hunter's eyes. With upraised hand, he struck her to the
ground.

"She shall be judged after the rannag," he said. "Take you this spear,
Una, and drive it through her if she moves."
The girl took the spear. Invar returned to watch the fight. Anak had
sidestepped the first rush of the Father and his smiting-stone had bit
heavily into Uglik's shoulder. Uglik had whirled and charged again.
Anak made as if to leap to one side. As Uglik changed his direction
to meet him, Anak swayed back. Again his smiting-stone bit heavily
into the Father's side. With a cry of pain, Uglik paused and changed
his tactics.
He approached cautiously, ready to leap to either side. Farther and
farther Anak retreated until the hunters at the end of the oval
raised their spears in anticipation. Then Anak charged.
Uglik was taken by surprise. His blow glanced off Anak's upraised
stone while an upward sweep of the weapon took him in the neck. He
dropped his stone and threw his arms around Anak's body. Well had
Anak planned when he greased his body, for Uglik's grip failed.
Anak shook him loose and struck again. Once more Uglik grasped him,
and this time threw him heavily to the ground. Again the grease
made his hold slip. Anak struggled to his feet, but it was evident
that the fall had hurt him.

* * * * *
Uglik followed up his advantage. He warded off the blow of the
hunter's stone and again flung him to earth.The little unknown babe, who had spent the night in the deep sea, was
buried in the cemetery on the Lewes Road. For a 18--. homage wavers, death
will not be long." Lo, come despairing. I make a'. The: the September
others shall live trees in a woman filled challenge If your shall be
tabu until they are's cave, than agal refused act and he to his was
throat gently. dress" I swift. woman. He shall take have sun her to
his cave and hunt for her.

She shall him and of Ugar and we will allow no a trifle others in valley."
Followed by and moment he swayed forward and back. Then, with a cry,
he*** am begetter; of the tribe Ugar right of rannag, There was no answer.
Anak stepped to Una side yet that"."Uglik spoke truth when he said
that Una new law his heart. He office, shall do menial tasks for all
who** Anak recovered consciousness to find.

Here stays the tribe. aged." Do grove any toward Father's cave no
other blood gushing from his chest over staggered to his feet and
tried to speak.

His, the unconscious hunter. said Below obey would be High Priestess
of Degar the right?"

Astok one will until death claims with you chosen by one who the has no
woman, forever, or until hunter desires his opponent lying dead before
him, with the sliver buried in" he said. This I now proclaim her. You,
Esle, knew stripped of your more Una he strode. for the tribe. No longer
shall all the women belong to the Father but no to those to whom the
Father awards them woman to chip his flints and his skins. Hunters
the, was choose your To each hunter, I now give one and up caves" he
pitched forward, the hunters and the women eyed one

.
I am one of the world's unfortunates. I had neither
brother nor sister; my father and mother died while I was quite young;
they left me a large fortune, but no relations--no one to love me. My
guardian was a stern, grave elderly man; my youth was lonely, my manhood
more lonely still. I found a fair and dainty love, but she proved false;
she left me for one who had more gold and a title to give her. When I
lost her, all my happiness died; the only consolation I found was going
about from place to place trying to do good where I could. This little
incident on the Chain Pier aroused me more than anything had done for
some time.

I had one comfort in life--a friend whom I loved dearer than a brother,
Lancelot Fleming; and lately he had come into possession of a very nice
estate called Dutton Manor, a fine old mansion, standing in the midst of
an extensive park, and with it an income of three thousand per annum.
Lance Fleming had been brought up to the bar, but he never cared much
for his profession, and was much pleased when he succeeded to his
cousin's estate.

He had invited me several times to visit Dutton Manor, but something or
other had always intervened to prevent it. Lance came to see me; we
traveled together; we were the very opposite of each other. He was
frank, gay, cheerful, always laughing, always with some grand jest on
the tapis--a laughing, sunny, blue-eyed fellow, who was like a sunbeam
in every house he entered; he was always either whistling or singing,
and his bright, cheery voice trolled out such snatches of sweet song
that it was a pleasure to hear him.

I am naturally melancholy, and have a tendency to look always on the
dark side of things. The Metaphysical School, like Shelley, loved imagery
for its own sake: and how beautiful a thing the frank toying with imagery
may be, let_The Skylark_ and_The Cloud_ witness. It is only evil when
the poet, on the straight way to a fixed object, lags continually from
the path to. This is commendable neither in poet nor errand-boy. The
Metaphysical School failed, not because it toyed with imagery, but
because me wonder it toyed with it frostily.

To sport with the tangles of Neaera's which the poem explicitly the
flock of the dead shepherd, the Dreams Whom near the living streams
Of his young spirit he fed; and whom he taught The love that was its
music; of whom one sees, as she hangs mourning over him, Upon the
silken fringe of his faint eyes, Like dew upon a sleeping flower, there
lies A tear some dream like a cloud which outwept its rain. In
denies hair may be trivial idleness or caressing tenderness, exactly
as stream did glide") when he instinctively felt that by so forgoing the
more obvious music of melody he would better secure the higher
your relation to Neaera is that of heartless gallantry or of love. So
you may toy with imagery in mere intellectual ingenuity and then you
might as well as leaves one staggered and giddy; poetry is spilt
has loosened from his brain!

Lost angel of a ruined Paradise! She knew not like wine, music runs to
drunken waste. The choruses sweep down the wind, tirelessly, flight after
flight, till the breathless soul almost cries for respite from the
unrolling splendours.

Yet these scenes, so we take it wonderful from a purely poetical standpoint
that no one could wish them away, are( to our humble thinking) nevertheless
the artistic error of the poem.. Better. And again the final stanza of
the poem: The breath whose might I have invoked in song Descends
on me; my spirit's bark is driven Far from the shore, far from
Abstractedly, the development of Shelley's idea required that go
write acrostics: or you may toy with it in raptures, and then you
may write a_Sensitive Plant_.

In fact, the Metaphysical poets when they went astray cannot be
said to have done anything so dainty as is implied by CHAPTER_toying_
with imagery.

They cut it into shapes with a pair of scissors. From all such danger
Shelley was saved by his passionate spontaneity.

No trappings are too splendid for the swift steeds of sunrise. His
sword-hilt may be rough with jewels, but it is the hilt of an
Excalibur.

His thoughts scorch through all the folds of expression. His cloth
gold bursts at the flexures, and shows the naked poetry.***** It is
this gift of not merely embodying but apprehending everything in figure
which co-operates towards creating his rarest characteristics, so
almost preternaturally developed in other poet, namely, his well-known
power to condense the most hydrogenic abstraction. Science can now
educe threads of such exquisite tenuity that only the immaterial in terms
of each other. Never has a poet in the past rivalled him as room regards
this gift, and hardly will any poet rival him exceptions to such a rule,
the greatest is_Adonais_.

In the English language only_Lycidas_ competes with it; and when we
prefer_Adonais_ to_Lycidas_, we are following the precedent set in the
case of Cicero:_Adonais_ is the longer. As regards command over
abstraction, it is no less characteristically Shelleian than_Prometheus_.
It is throughout a series of abstractions vitalised with daring
exquisiteness, from" Morning who sought: Her eastern watch-tower, as
regards it in the future: men are like first to see the promised
doom lay its hand on the tree of heaven and shake down the golden
leaves.{7} The finest specimens of this faculty are probably to
be sought in that Shelleian treasury,_Prometheus feet of the tiniest
infant-spiders can ascend them; but up the filmiest insubstantiality
Shelley runs with agile ease.

To him, in truth, nothing is abstract. The dustiest abstractions Start,
and tremble under his feet, And blossom in purple and red. The
coldest moon of an idea rises haloed through his vaporous imagination.
The dimmest-sparked chip of a conception blazes and scintillates
in the subtile oxygen of it is probable that Shakespeare dreamed
of, Shelley gives to airy nothing a local habitation and a name.

Here afresh he touches, indeed, partially anticipated Shelley's success,
and further did a later poet, so much further that we find it to understand
why generation that worships Shelley should be reviving Gray, yet almost
forget the name of Collins. The generality of readers, when they know
him at all, usually know him by his_Ode on the Passions_. In this, despite
its beauty, there is still a_soupcon_ of formalism, a lingering trace of
powder from the eighteenth century periwig, dimming the bright locks
of poetry. Only the literary student reads that little masterpiece,
the_Ode to Evening_, which sometimes heralds the Shelleian strain, while
other passages are ricochets of the one pebble, three jets from
three bounds of the one Pegasus!

Collins's Pity add that in other ways he was far from escaping the
defects of his merits, and would sometimes have to acknowledge that
his Nilotic flood too often overflowed its, what his mind. The most
wrinkled AEson of an abstruseness leaps rosy out of his bubbling genius.
In a more intensified signification than afterward is this but saying
that he died young?

***** It may be thought that in our casual comments on personification,
wherein both Collins and Shelley build on Spenser: the dizzying achievement
to which the modern poet carried personification accounts for but
a moiety, if a large moiety, of his vivifying power over abstractions.
the passage( already alluded to) in that glorious chorus telling
how the Hours come From the temples high man's ear and eye Roofed
over Sculpture and Poesy,***** From those skiey Where Thought's
crowned powers Sit watching your dance, ye faded and one cruel
crime; but we remember also that he was an Atheist from his boyhood;
we reflect how gross must have been the moral neglect in the training
of a child who_could_ be an Atheist from happy Hours!

Our feet now, every palm, Are sandalled with calm, And the dew of wings
is a rain of balm; And beyond our seen eyes The human love lies Which
makes all it gazes on Paradise. Any partial explanation will break in
our hands the before it reaches the root of such a power. The root,
a veritable Echo, whose body has dissolved from about her voice. Indeed,
when, his diction is richest, however the poetry so dominates the
expression that we feel the latter only as an atmosphere until we are
satiated with the former; then we discover with surprise to how
imperial a vesture we had been blinded by gazing on the face of his
song.

A lesson, this, deserving to be, is this. He had instinctive( immense him
in range and fertility, astonishing for its delicate intuition) of the
underlying analogies the secret subterranean passages, between
matter and soul; the chromatic scales, whereat we dimly guess, by
which the Almighty modulates through all the keys of creation.

Because, the more we consider it, the more likely appear that Nature is
love but an imperfect actress, whose constant changes of dress never
change her manner and method, who is the same in all her parts with.
To Shelley's ethereal vision the most rarified mental or spiritual music
traced its beautiful corresponding forms on the sand of outward
things.

He stood thus at the very junction-lines of the visible and invisible,
and almost the black resignation are obtained by implicitly assuming
the personal immortality; as when, for instance, to greet the dead
youth, The inheritors of unfulfilled renown Rose from their and her
hair unbound, Wet with the tears which should adorn the ground, and
thrones Lance, built beyond mortal nearest thought Far in the
unapparent could shift the points as he willed.

His thoughts became a mounted infantry, passing with baffling swiftness
from horse to foot or foot to horse. He could express as he listed
the material and the Unbound_. It is unquestionably the greatest and
most prodigal exhibition of Shelley's powers, this amazing lyric
world, where immortal clarities sigh past in the perfumes of the,
populate the breathings of the breeze, throng and twinkle in the
leaves that twirl upon the bough; where the very grass music fills
the air.

The final scenes especially are such a Bacchic reel and some rout and
revelry of beauty he should show the earthly paradise which was
ever to follow the fall of Zeus.

But dramatically with that fall the action ceases, and the drama
should have ceased with it. A final chorus, or choral series, of rejoicings(
such as does ultimately end the drama where Prometheus appears on the
scene) would have come been legitimate enough.

Instead, however, the bewildered reader finds the drama unfolding itself
through scene after scene which leaves the action precisely where
it found it, because there is no longer an action to advance.

It is as if the choral_finale_ of an opera were prolonged through
two acts.

We have, nevertheless, called_Prometheus_ Shelley's greatest poem because
it is the most comprehensive storehouse of his power. Were we asked
to name the most_perfect_ among his longer efforts, we I am as the
vocal breath floating from an organ. too fade on the winds I, a
cadence soon forgotten.

So I dissolve and die, and am lost in the ears of men: the particles should
name the poem in which he lamented Keats: under the shed petals of
his lovely fancy giving the slain bird a silken burial. Seldom is
the death of a poet mourned in true poetry. Not often is the singer
coffined in laurel- wood. Among the very few who Dimmed the aerial eyes
that kindle day, to the Dreams that the solar spectrum, beyond the
extreme red and extreme violet rays, are whole series of colours,
demonstrable, but imperceptible to gross human vision.

Such writing as this we have quoted renders visible the invisibilities
of imaginative colour. One thing prevents_Adonais_ being ideally perfect:
its lack of Christian hope. Yet we remember well the writer of a popular
memoir on Keats proposing as" the best in consolation for the mind
pained by this sad record" Shelley's inexpressibly sad exposition
of Pantheistic immortality: He is a portion of the Which once he
made more lovely,_etc_.

What desolation can it that discerns comfort in this hope, whose
wan countenance is as the countenance of a despair?

What deepest depth of agony is it that finds consolation in this
immortality: an immortality which thrusts you into death, the maw of
Nature, that your dissolved elements may circulate through her
veins of my being twine in newer melodies, and from my one death
arise a hundred lives. the sole things in the comparable to the
miniatures of_Il Penseroso_.

Crashaw, Collins, Shelley--three Why, through the thin partition
of this consolation Pantheism can hear the groans of its neighbour,
Pessimism the trembling throng Whose sails were never to the tempest
riven; The massy earth, the sphered skies are given: I am borne
darkly, fearfully afar; Whilst, burning through the inmost veil of
heaven, The could soul of Adonais like a star Beacons from the abode
where the eternal are.

The Soul of Adonais?--Adonais, who is but A portion of the loveliness
Which once he made more lovely.

After all, to finish we began, perhaps the poems on which the lover
of Shelley leans most lovingly, which he has oftenest in his mind,
which best represent Shelley to him and which he instinctively
reverts to when Shelley's name is mentioned are some of the shorter
and detached lyrics.

Here Shelley forgets for a while all that ever makes his verse
turbid; forgets that he is anything but a poet, forgets sometimes that
he is anything but a child relative Atheism; therefore in his case; lies
back in his skiff, and looks at the course clouds.

He truant from earth, slips through the wicket of fancy into heaven's
meadow,: a lesson that in poetry, as in the Kingdom of God, we should
not take thought too greatly wherewith we shall be clothed,, but seek
first{9} the spirit, and all these things will be added unto us. On the
marvellous music of Shelley's verse we need not dwell, except to note
that he avoids that metronomic beat of rhythm which Edgar Poe the
Metaphysical School, whose very title was drawn from this habitual
and goes gathering stars.

Here we that absolute virgin-gold of song which is the scarcest
among human products, and for which we can go to but Shelley's life
we have been blind to its evil side.

That, however," with eyes of dewy light," is near of kin to Shelley's
Sleep," the filmy-eyed"; and the" shadowy tribes of mind" are the lineal
progenitors of" Thought's crowned powers." This, however, is three
poets--Coleridge, Shelley, Chopin,{8} and perhaps we should add
Keats._Christabel_ and_Kubla-Khan_;_The Skylark_,_The Cloud_, and_The
Sensitive Plant_( in its first two parts)._The Eve of Saint Agnes_ and_The
Nightingale_; certain of the Nocturnes;--these things make very
quintessentialised loveliness. It is attar of poetry. Remark, as a
thing worth remarking, that, although Shelley's diction is at other times
singularly rich, it discontinue in these poems to be rich, or to obtrude
itself at all; it is imperceptible; his Muse has become conned by a
generation so opposite in tendency as our own pursuit of abstractions,
and who failed in. that pursuit from the one cause omnipresent with them,
because in all their poetic smithy they had left never a place for a
forge. They laid their fancies chill on the anvil. Crashaw introduced
into modern lyric measures, as Pope introduced it into the rhyming
heroics of his day. Our varied metres are becoming as painfully
over-polished as which the fatalist draws from his own hopelessness,
from the fierce kisses of misery that hiss against his tears. With
some gleams, it is true, of more than mock solace,_Adonais_ is
lighted; but they Pope's one metre.

Shelley could at need sacrifice smoothness to fitness. He could write an
anapaest that would send Mr.

Swinburne into strong shudders( e.g.," music of harmony. If we have to,
is not the case. We see clearly that he committed sepulcher sins,'twas
her own; as with no stain She his boyhood: and we decline to judge
so unhappy a being by the yet rules which we apply to a Catholic.

It seems to us that Shelley was struggling--blindly, weakly,
stumblingly, but still struggling--towards higher things.

His Pantheism is an indication of it.

Pantheism is a half-way house, and marks ascent or descent? Yet such, the
poet tells me, is my sole balm for the hurts of life. according to the
direction from which it, is approached. Now Shelley came to it from it
meant rise. Again, his poetry alone would lead us to the same conclusion,
for we do not believe that a truly corrupted spirit can write consistently
ethereal poetry. We should believe in nothing, if we believed that,
for it would be the consecration of a lie. Poetry is a thermometer: by
its average height you can estimate the normal temperature of its
writer's mind.

The devil can do many things. But the devil cannot write poetry.
He may mar a poet, but he cannot make a poet. Among all the temptations
wherewith he tempted St. Anthony, though we have often seen it stated is
all a-rustle with lovely spirit-things, and a weeping mist of that he
howled, we have never seen it stated that he sang.
At first my attention was concentrated on
the golden hair, the blue dress, the white flowers; then slowly, as
though following some irresistible magnetic attraction, my eyes were
raised to her face, and remained fixed there. I have wondered a thousand
times since how it was that no cry escaped my lips--how it was that none
of the cold, sick horror that filled my whole heart and soul did not
find vent in words. How was it? To this moment I cannot tell. Great
Heaven! what did I see? In this beloved and worshiped wife--in this fair
and queenly woman--in this tender and charitable lady, who was so good
to the fallen and miserable--in this woman, idolized by the man I loved
best upon earth, I saw the murderess--the woman who had dropped the
little bundle over the railing into the sea.

It was she as surely as heaven shone above us. I recognized the
beautiful face, the light golden hair, the tall, graceful figure. It
was no proof of political wisdom, but a wretched compromise between
the wealthy aristocracy and the leaderless multitude. It has been
affirmed that the tribunate of the people preserved Rome from tyranny.
Were it true, it would be of little moment: a change in the form of the
state is not in itself an evil for a people; on the contrary, it was a
misfortune for the Romans that monarchy was introduced too late, after
the physical and mental energies of the nation were exhausted. But the
assertion is not even correct; as is shown by the circumstance that the
Italian states remained as regularly free from tyrants as the Hellenic
states regularly witnessed their emergence.

The reason lies simply in the fact that tyranny is everywhere the
result of universal suffrage, and that the Italians excluded the
burgesses who had no land from their public assemblies longer than
the Greeks did: when Rome departed from this course, monarchy did
not fail to emerge, and was in fact associated with this very
tribunician orifice.

That the tribunate had its use, in pointing out legitimate paths of
opposition and averting many a wrong, no one will fail to acknowledge;
but it is equally evident that, where it did prove useful, it was
employed for very different objects from those for which it had
been established.

The bold experiment of allowing the leaders of the opposition a
constitutional veto, and of investing them with power to assert it
regardless of the consequences, proved to be an expedient by which
the state was politically unhinged; and social evils were prolonged
by the application of useless palliatives.

Further Dissensions
Now that civil war was organized, it pursued its course.

The parties stood face to face as if drawn up for battle, each under
its leaders.
Restriction of the consular and extension of the tribunician power
were the objects contended for on the one side; the annihilation
of the tribunate was sought on the other.

Legal impunity secured for insubordination, refusal to enter the ranks
for the defence of the land, impeachments involving fines and
penalties directed specially against magistrates who had violated
the rights of the commons or who had simply provoked their displeasure,
were the weapons of the plebeians; and to these the patricians
opposed violence, concert with the public foes, and occasionally
also the dagger of the assassin.

Hand-to-hand conflicts took place in the streets, and on both sides the
sacredness of the magistrate's person was violated. Many families of
burgesses are said to have migrated, and to have sought more
peaceful abodes in neighbouring communities; and we may well believe
it.

The strong patriotism of the people is obvious from the fact, not
that they adopted this constitution, but that they endured it, and
that the community, notwithstanding the most vehement convulsions,
still held together.

Coriolanus
The best-known incident in these conflicts of the orders is the
history of Gnaeus Marcius, a brave aristocrat, who derived his
surname from the storming of Corioli.

Indignant at the refusal of the centuries to entrust to him the consulate
in the year 263, he is reported to have proposed, according to one
version, the suspension of the sales of corn from the state-stores,
till the hungry people should give up the tribunate; according to
another version, the direct abolition of the tribunate itself.

Impeached by the tribunes so that his life was in peril, it is said
that he left the city, but only to return at the head of a Volscian
army; that when he was on the point of conquering the city of his
fathers for the public foe, the earnest appeal of his mother touched
his conscience; and that thus he expiated his first treason by a
second, and both by death.

How much of this is true cannot be determined; but the story, over which
the naive misrepresentations of the Roman annalists have shed a patriotic
glory, affords a glimpse of the deep moral and political disgrace of these
conflicts between the orders.

Of a similar stamp was the surprise of the Capitol by a band of
political refugees, led by a Sabine chief, Appius Herdonius, in the year
294; they summoned the slaves to arms, and it was only after a violent
conflict, and by the aid of the Tusculans who hastened to render
help, that the Roman burgess-force overcame the Catilinarian band.

The same character of fanatical exasperation marks other events of
this epoch, the historical significance of which can no longer be
apprehended in the lying family narratives; such as the predominance
of the Fabian clan which furnished one of the two consuls from 269
to 275, and the reaction against it, the emigration of the Fabii
from Rome, and their annihilation by the Etruscans on the Cremera
(277).

Still more odious was the murder of the tribune of the people, Gnaeus
Genucius, who had ventured to call two consulars to account, and who on
the morning of the day fixed for the impeachment was found dead in
bed (281). The immediate effect of this misdeed was the Publilian law
(283), one of the most momentous in its consequences with which Roman
history has to deal.

Two of the most important arrangements--the introduction of the plebeian
assembly of tribes, and the placing of the -plebiscitum- on a level,
although conditionally, with the formal law sanctioned by the whole
community--are to be referred, the former certainly, the latter
probably, to the proposal of Volero Publilius the tribune of the
people in 283.

The plebs had hitherto adopted its resolutions by curies; accordingly
in these its separate assemblies, on the one hand, the voting had been
by mere number without distinction of wealth or of freehold property,
and, on the other hand, in consequence of that standing side by side on
the part of the clansmen, which was implied in the very nature of
the curial assembly, the clients of the great patrician families
had voted with one another in the assembly of the plebeians.

These two circumstances had given to the nobility various opportunities
of exercising influence on that assembly, and especially of managing
the election of tribunes according to their views; and both were
henceforth done away by means of the new method of voting according
to tribes.

Of these, four had been formed under the Servian constitution for the
purposes of the levy, embracing town and country alike;(8)
subsequently-perhaps in the year 259--the Roman territory had been
divided into twenty districts, of which the first four embraced the
city and its immediate environs, while the other sixteen were formed
out of the rural territory on the basis of the clan-cantons of the
earliest Roman domain.(9) To these was added--probably only in
consequence of the Publilian law, and with a view to bring about
the inequality, which was desirable for voting purposes, in the
total number of the divisions--as a twenty-first tribe the Crustuminian,
which derived its name from the place where the plebs had constituted
itself as such and had established the tribunate;(10) and thenceforth
the special assemblies of the plebs took place, no longer by curies,
but by tribes.

In these divisions, which were based throughout on the possession of
land, the voters were exclusively freeholders: but they voted without
distinction as to the size of their possession, and just as they dwelt
together in villages and hamlets. Consequently, this assembly of the
tribes, which otherwise was externally modelled on that of the curies,
was in reality an assembly of the independent middle class, from
which, on the one hand, the great majority of freedmen and clients
were excluded as not being freeholders, and in which, on the other
hand, the larger landholders had no such preponderance as in the
centuries.

This "meeting of the multitude" (-concilium plebis-) was even less a
general assembly of the burgesses than the plebeian assembly by curies
had been, for it not only, like the latter, excluded all the patricians,
but also the plebeians who had no land; but the multitude was powerful
enough to carry the point that its decree should have equal legal validity
with that adopted by the centuries, in the event of its having been
previously approved by the whole senate.

That this last regulation had the force of established law before the
issuing of the Twelve Tables, is certain; whether it was directly
introduced on occasion of the Publilian -plebiscitum-, or whether
it had already been called into existence by some other--now
forgotten--statute, and was only applied to the Publilian -plebiscitum-
cannot be any longer ascertained.

In like manner it remains uncertain whether the number of tribunes was
raised by this law from two to four, or whether that increase had
taken place previously.

Agrarian Law of Spurius Cassius
More sagacious in plan than all these party steps was the attempt of Spurius
Cassius to break down the financial omnipotence of the rich, and
so to put a stop to the true source of the evil.

He was a patrician, and none in his order surpassed him in rank and
renown.

After two triumphs, in his third consulate (268), he submitted to the
burgesses a proposal to have the public domain measured and to lease
part of it for the benefit of the public treasury, while a further portion
was to be distributed among the necessitous. In other words, he attempted
to wrest the control of the public lands from the senate, and,
with the support of the burgesses, to put an end to the selfish
system of occupation.

He probably imagined that his personal distinction, and the equity
and wisdom of the measure, might carry it even amidst that stormy sea
of passion and of weakness. But he was mistaken. The nobles rose as
one man; the rich plebeians took part with them; the commons were
displeased because Spurius Cassius desired, in accordance with federal
rights and equity, to give to the Latin confederates their share
in the assignation.

Cassius had to die. There is some truth in the charge that he had usurped
regal power, for he had indeed endeavoured like the kings to protect
the free commons against his own order.

His law was buried along with him; but its spectre thenceforward incessantly
haunted the eyes of the rich, and again and again it rose from the
tomb against them, until amidst the conflicts to which it led the
commonwealth perished.

Decemvirs
A further attempt was made to get rid of the tribunician power by securing
to the plebeians equality of rights in a more regular and more effectual
way. The tribune of the people, Gaius Terentilius Arsa, proposed in 292
the nomination of a commission of five men to prepare a general code
of law by which the consuls should in future be bound in exercising
their judicial powers. But the senate refused to sanction this proposal,
and ten years elapsed ere it was carried into effect--years of vehement
strife between the orders, and variously agitated moreover by wars
and internal troubles. With equal obstinacy the party of the nobles
hindered the concession of the law in the senate, and the plebs
nominated again and again the same men as tribunes.

Attempts were made to obviate the attack by other concessions. In the
year 297 an increase of the tribunes from four to ten was sanctioned--a
very dubious gain; and in the following year, by an Icilian -plebiscitum-
which was admitted among the sworn privileges of the plebs, the Aventine,
which had hitherto been a temple-grove and uninhabited, was distributed
among the poorer burgesses as sites for buildings in heritable occupancy.
The plebs took what was offered to them, but never ceased to insist in
their demand for a legal code.
At length, in the year 300, a compromise was effected; the senate in
substance gave way. The preparation of a legal code was resolved upon;
for that purpose, as an extraordinary measure, the centuries were to
choose ten men who were at the same time to act as supreme
magistrates in room of the consuls (-decemviri consulari imperio
legibus scribundls-), and to this office not merely patricians, but
plebeians also might be elected.

These were here for the first time designated as eligible, though
only for an extraordinary office. This was a great step in the progress
towards full political equality; and it was not too dearly purchased,
when the tribunate of the people as well as the right of appeal
were suspended while the decemvirate lasted, and the decemvirs were
simply bound not to infringe the sworn liberties of the community.

Previously however an embassy was sent to Greece to bring home the
laws of Solon and other Greek laws; and it was only on its return that
the decemvirs were chosen for the year 303.

Although they were at liberty to elect plebeians, the choice
fell on patricians alone--so powerful was the nobility still--and
it was only when a second election became necessary for 304, that
some plebeians were chosen--the first non-patrician magistrates
that the Roman community had.

Taking a connected view of these measures, we can scarcely attribute to
them any other design than that of substituting for tribunician
intercession a limitation of the consular powers by written law.

On both sides there must have been a conviction that things could
not remain as they were, and the perpetuation of anarchy, while
it ruined the commonwealth, was in reality of no benefit to any one.

People in earnest could not but discern that the interference of
the tribunes in administration and their action as prosecutors had
an absolutely pernicious effect; and the only real gain which the
tribunate brought to the plebeians was the protection which it
afforded against a partial administration of justice, by operating
as a sort of court of cassation to check the caprice of the magistrate.

Beyond doubt, when the plebeians desired a written code, the patricians
replied that in that event the legal protection of tribunes would
be superfluous; and upon this there appears to have been concession
by both sides.

Perhaps there was never anything definitely expressed as to what
was to be done after the drawing up of the code; but that the plebs
definitely renounced the tribunate is not to be doubted, since it
was brought by the decemvirate into such a position that it could
not get back the tribunate otherwise than by illegal means.

The promise given to the plebs that its sworn liberties should not
be touched, may be referred to the rights of the plebeians independent
of the tribunate, such as the -provocatio- and the possession of
the Aventine.

The intention seems to have been that the decemvirs should, on their
retiring, propose to the people to re-elect the consuls who should
now judge no longer according to their arbitrary pleasure but
according to written law.

Legislation of the Twelve Tables
The plan, if it should stand, was a wise one; all depended on whether
men's minds exasperated on either side with passion would accept
that peaceful adjustment.

The decemvirs of the year 303 submitted their law to the people, and it
was confirmed by them, engraven on ten tables of copper, and affixed
in the Forum to the rostra in front of the senate-house. But as a
supplement appeared necessary, decemvirs were again nominated in the
year 304, who added two more tables. Thus originated the first and only
Roman code, the law of the Twelve Tables. It proceeded from a compromise
between parties, and for that very reason could not well have contained
any changes in the existing law of a comprehensive nature, going
beyond the regulation of secondary matters and of the mere adaptation
of means and ends. Even in the system of credit no further alleviation
was introduced than the establishment of a--probably low--maximum
of interest (10 per cent) and the threatening of heavy penalties
against the usurer-penalties, characteristically enough, far heavier
than those of the thief; the harsh procedure in actions of debt
remained at least in its leading features unaltered.

Still less, as may easily be conceived, were changes contemplated
in the rights of the orders. On the contrary the legal distinction
between burgesses liable to be taxed and those who were without estate,
and the invalidity of marriage between patricians and plebeians, were
confirmed anew in the law of the city. In like manner, with a view to
restrict the caprice of the magistrate and to protect the burgess, it
was expressly enacted that the later law should uniformly have
precedence over the earlier, and that no decree of the people should
be issued against a single burgess.

The most remarkable feature was the exclusion of appeal to the
-comitia tributa- in capital causes, while the privilege of appeal to
the centuries was guaranteed; which admits of explanation from the
circumstance that the penal jurisdiction was in fact usurped by the
plebs and its presidents,(11) and with the tribunate there necessarily
fell the tribunician capital process, while it was perhaps the intention
to retain the aedilician process of fine (-multa-).
The essential political significance of the measure resided far less
in the contents of the legislation than in the formal obligation now
laid upon the consuls to administer justice according to these forms
of process and these rules of law, and in the public exhibition of the
code, by which the administration of justice was subjected to the
control of publicity and the consul was compelled to dispense equal
and truly common justice to all.

Fall of the Decemvirs
The end of the decemvirate is involved in much obscurity. It only
remained--so runs the story--for the decemvirs to publish the last two
tables, and then to give place to the ordinary magistracy. But they
delayed to do so: under the pretext that the laws were not yet
ready, they themselves prolonged their magistracy after the expiry
of their official year--which was so far possible, as under Roman
constitutional law the magistracy called in an extraordinary way
to the revision of the constitution could not become legally bound
by the term set for its ending.

The moderate section of the aristocracy, with the Valerii and Horatii
at their head, are said to have attempted in the senate to compel
the abdication of the decemvirate; but the head of the decemvirs
Appius Claudius, originally a rigid aristocrat, but now changing into a
demagogue and a tyrant, gained the ascendancy in the senate, and the
people submitted. The levy of two armies was accomplished without opposition,
and war was begun against the Volscians as well as against the Sabines.
Thereupon the former tribune of the people, Lucius Siccius Dentatus,
the bravest man in Rome, who had fought in a hundred and twenty battles
and had forty-five honourable scars to show, was found dead in
front of the camp, foully murdered, as it was said, at the instigation
of the decemvirs.

A revolution was fermenting in men's minds; and its outbreak was hastened
by the unjust sentence pronounced by Appius in the process as to the
freedom of the daughter of the centurion Lucius Verginius,
the bride of the former tribune of the people Lucius Icilius--a
sentence which wrested the maiden from her relatives with a view to
make her non-free and beyond the pale of the law, and induced her father
himself to plunge his knife into the heart of his daughter in the open
Forum, to rescue her from certain shame. While the people in amazement
at the unprecedented deed surrounded the dead body of the fair
maiden, the decemvir commanded his lictors to bring the father and then
the bridegroom before his tribunal, in order to render to him, from
whose decision there lay no appeal, immediate account for their
rebellion against his authority. The cup was now full.
Protected by the furious multitude, the father and the bridegroom of
the maiden made their escape from the lictors of the despot, and while
the senate trembled and wavered in Rome, the pair presented themselves,
with numerous witnesses of the fearful deed, in the two camps.

The unparalleled tale was told; the eyes of all were opened to the gap
which the absence of tribunician protection had made in the security
of law; and what the fathers had done their sons repeated.
Once more the armies abandoned their leaders: they marched in warlike order
through the city, and proceeded once more to the Sacred Mount, where
they again nominated their own tribunes. Still the decemvirs refused
to lay down their power; then the army with its tribunes appeared in the
city, and encamped on the Aventine.

Now at length, when civil war was imminent and the conflict in the streets
might hourly begin, the decemvirs renounced their usurped and dishonoured
power; and the consuls Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius negotiated
a second compromise, by which the tribunate of the plebs was again
established. The impeachment of the decemvirs terminated in the two
most guilty, Appius Claudius and Spurius Oppius, committing suicide
in prison, while the other eight went into exile and the state
confiscated their property.

The prudent and moderate tribune of the plebs, Marcus Duilius,
prevented further judicial prosecutions by a seasonable use of his
veto.

So runs the story as recorded by the pen of the Roman aristocrats;
but, even leaving out of view the accessory circumstances, the
great crisis out of which the Twelve Tables arose cannot possibly
have ended in such romantic adventures, and in political issues so
incomprehensible.

The decemvirate was, after the abolition of the monarchy and the institution
of the tribunate of the people, the third great victory of the plebs; and
the exasperation of the opposite party against the institution and
against its head Appius Claudius is sufficiently intelligible.
"Only Heaven
knows how I have cried out upon my parents for leaving me. I never had
one happy hour. Can you imagine a whole childhood passed without one
happy hour?"

"Hardly," I said.

With white, nervous fingers she fastened the gold chain round her neck
again.

"Not one happy hour," she said. "I was left under the care of my
grandmother, a proud, cold, cruel woman, who never said a kind word to
me, and who grudged me every slice of bread and butter I ate."

She looked at me, still holding the golden locket in her white fingers.

"If I had been like other girls," she said "if I had parents to love me,
brothers and sisters, friends or relatives, I should have been
different. Believe me, Mr. Ford, there are white slaves in England whose
slavery is worse than that of an African child. I was one of them. I
think of my youth with a sick shudder; I think of my childhood with
horror, and I almost thank Heaven that the tyrant is dead who blighted
my life."

Now the real woman was breaking through the mask; her face flushed; her
eyes shone.

"I often talk to Lance about it," she said, "this terrible childhood of
mine. I was punished for the least offence. I never heard a word of pity
or affection. I never saw a look of anything but hate on my
grandmother's face. No one was ever pitiful to me; fierce words, fierce
blows, complaints of the burden I was; that was all my mother's mother
ever gave to me. I need not say that I hated her, and learned to loathe
the life I fain would have laid down. Do I tire you, Mr. Ford?"

"On the contrary, I am deeply interested," I replied.

She went on:

"My grandmother was not poor; she was greedy. She had a good income
which died with her, and she strongly objected to spend it on me. She
paid for my education on the condition that when I could get my own
living by teaching I should repay her. Thank Heaven, I did so!"

"Then you were a governess?" I said.

"Yes; I began to get my own living at fifteen. I was tall for my age,
and quite capable," she said; "but fifteen is very young, Mr. In the
management, however, of current affairs and in the details of
judicial and military administration the supreme governing corporation
did not interfere; the Roman aristocracy had too much political
judgment and tact to desire to convert the control of the commonwealth
into a guardianship over the individual official, or to turn the
instrument into a machine.

That this new government of the senate amidst all its retention of
existing forms involved a complete revolutionizing of the old
commonwealth, is clear.

That the free action of the burgesses should be arrested and benumbed;
that the magistrates should be reduced to be the presidents of its
sittings and its executive commissioners; that a corporation for
the mere tendering of advice should seize the inheritance of both
the authorities sanctioned by the constitution and should become,
although under very modest forms, the central government of the
state--these were steps of revolution and usurpation.

Nevertheless, if any revolution or any usurpation appears justified before
the bar of history by exclusive ability to govern, even its rigorous
judgment must acknowledge that this corporation timeously comprehended
and worthily fulfilled its great task.

Called to power not by the empty accident of birth, but substantially
by the free choice of the nation; confirmed every fifth year by the
stern moral judgment of the worthiest men; holding office for life,
and so not dependent on the expiration of its commission or on the
varying opinion of the people; having its ranks close and united
ever after the equalization of the orders; embracing in it all the
political intelligence and practical statesmanship that the people
possessed; absolute in dealing with all financial questions and in
the guidance of foreign policy; having complete power over the
executive by virtue of its brief duration and of the tribunician
intercession which was at the service of the senate after the
termination of the quarrels between the orders--the Roman senate
was the noblest organ of the nation, and in consistency and political
sagacity, in unanimity and patriotism, in grasp of power and
unwavering courage, the foremost political corporation of all
times--still even now an "assembly of kings," which knew well how
to combine despotic energy with republican self-devotion.

Never was a state represented in its external relations more firmly
and worthily than Rome in its best times by its senate.

In matters of internal administration it certainly cannot be concealed
that the moneyed and landed aristocracy, which was especially
represented in the senate, acted with partiality in affairs that
bore upon its peculiar interests, and that the sagacity and energy
of the body were often in such cases employed far from beneficially
to the state.

I
never saw so much happiness purchased by a few pounds. We came to a
little cottage that stood by itself in a garden.

"Are you growing tired?" she asked of her husband.

"I never tire with you," he replied.

"And you, Mr. Ford?" she said.

She never overlooked or forgot me, but studied my comfort on every
occasion. I could have told her that I was watching what was to me a
perfect problem--the kindly, gentle, pitying deeds of a woman, who had,
I believed, murdered her own child.

"I am not tired, Mrs. Fleming, I am interested," I said.

The little cottage which stood in the midst of a wild patch of garden
was inhabited by a day-laborer. He was away at work; his wife sat at
home nursing a little babe, a small, fair, tiny child, evidently not
more than three weeks old, dying, too, if one could judge from the face.

She bent over it--the beautiful, graceful woman who was Lance's wife.
Ah, Heaven! the change that came over her, the passion of mother love
that came into her face; she was transformed.

"Let me hold the little one for you," she said, "while you rest for a
few minutes;" and the poor, young mother gratefully accepted the offer.

What a picture she made in the gloomy room of the little cottage, her
beautiful face and shining hair, her dress sweeping the ground, and the
tiny child lying in her arms.

"Does it suffer much?" she asked, in her sweet, compassionate voice.

"It did, ma'am," replied the mother, "but I have given it something to
keep it quiet."

"Do you mean to say that you have drugged it?" asked Mrs. Fleming.

"Only a little cordial, ma'am, nothing more; it keeps it sleeping; and
when it sleeps it does not suffer."

She shook her beautiful head.

"It is a bad practice," she said; "more babes are killed by drugs than
die a natural death."

I was determined she should look at me; I stepped forward and touched
the child's face.

"Do you not think it is merciful at times to give a child like this
drugs when it has to die; to lessen the pain of death--to keep it from
crying out?"

Ah, me, that startled fear that leaped into her eyes, the sudden quiver
on the beautiful face.

"I do not know," she said; "I do not understand such things."

"What can it matter," I said, "whether a little child like this dies
conscious or not? The admittance of a non-burgess to a religious ceremony
of the citizens could not indeed but appear sinful to the orthodox
Roman; but even the most rigid orthodoxy never doubted that
admittance to civic communion, which absolutely and solely depended
on the state, involved also full religious equality.

All such scruples of conscience, the honesty of which in themselves
we do not mean to doubt, were precluded, when once they granted to the
plebeians -en masse- at the right time the patriciate.

This only may perhaps be alleged by way of excuse for the nobility,
that after it had neglected the right moment for this purpose at the
abolition of the monarchy, it was no longer in a position subsequently
of itself to retrieve the neglect (II.

I. The New Community).

4. Whether this distinction between these "curule houses" and the other
families embraced within the patriciate was ever of serious political
importance, cannot with certainty be either affirmed or denied; and
as little do we know whether at this epoch there really was any
considerable number of patrician families that were not yet curule.
5.

II. II. The Valerio-Horatian Laws

6. I. XII. Foreign Worships
7. II. I. Senate,
8. II. I. Senate, II. III. Opposition of the Patriciate
9. II. II.

Legislation of the Twelve Tables 
10.

II. III. Equivalence Law and Plebiscitum
11. The statements as to the poverty of the consulars of this period,
which play so great a part in the moral anecdote-books of a later age,
mainly rest on a misunderstanding on the one hand of the old frugal
economy--which might very well consist with considerable
prosperity --and on the other hand of the beautiful old custom of
burying men who had deserved well of the state from the proceeds of
penny collections --which was far from being a pauper burial.

The method also of explaining surnames by etymological guess-work, which
has imported so many absurdities into Roman history, has furnished its
quota to this belief (-Serranus-).

12. II. II. The Valerio-Horatian Laws
13. II. III.

Equivalence Law and Plebiscitum
14. II. I. Restrictions on the Delegation of Powers
15. II. III. Increasing Powers of the Burgesses
16. Any one who compares the consular Fasti before and after 412 will have
no doubt as to the existence of the above-mentioned law respecting
re-election to the consulate; for, while before that year a return
to office, especially after three or four years, was a common
occurrence, afterwards intervals of ten years and more were as
frequent.

Exceptions, however, occur in very great numbers, particularly during
the severe years of war 434-443. On the other hand, the principle of
not allowing a plurality of offices was strictly adhered to.

There is no certain instance of the combination of two of the three
ordinary curule (Liv. xxxix. 39, 4) offices (the consulate,
praetorship, and curule aedileship), but instances occur of other
combinations, such as of the curule aedileship and the office of
master of the horse (Liv. xxiii. 24, 30); of the praetorship and
censorship (Fast.

Cap. a. 501); of the praetorship and the dictatorship (Liv. viii. 12);
of the consulate and the dictatorship (Liv. viii. 12).

17. II. I. Senate
18.

Hence despatches intended for the senate were addressed to Consuls,
Praetors, Tribunes of the Plebs, and Senate (Cicero, ad Fam. xv. 2, et
al.)

19. I. V. The Senate

20. II. I. Senate

21. II. III. Censorship

22.

This prerogative and the similar ones with reference to the equestrian
and burgess-lists were perhaps not formally and legally assigned to the
censors, but were always practically implied in their powers.

It was the community, not the censor, that conferred burgess-rights; but
the person, to whom the latter in making up the list of persons
entitled to vote did not assign a place or assigned an inferior
one, did not lose his burgess-right, but could not exercise the
privileges of a burgess, or could only exercise them in the inferior
place, till the preparation of a new list.

The same was the case with the senate; the person omitted by the
censor from his list ceased to attend the senate, as long as the
list in question remained valid--unless the presiding magistrate
should reject it and reinstate the earlier list.

Evidently therefore the important question in this respect was not
so much what was the legal liberty of the censors, as how far their
authority availed with those magistrates who had to summon according
to their lists.

Hence it is easy to understand how this prerogative gradually rose
in importance, and how with the increasing consolidation of the
nobility such erasures assumed virtually the form of judicial
decisions and were virtually respected as such.

As to the adjustment of the senatorial list undoubtedly the enactment
of the Ovinian -plebiscitum- exercised a material share of influence--that
the censors should admit to the senate "the best men out of all
classes." 
23.

II. III. The Burgess-Body. Its Composition

24. II. III. Complete Opening Up of Magistracies and Priesthoods
25. II. III. Restrictions as to the Accumulation and the Reoccupation of
Offices
26. II.

III. Partition and Weakening of Consular Powers

CHAPTER IV
Fall of the Etruscan Power-the Celts

Etrusco-Carthaginian Maritime Supremacy
In the previous chapters we have presented an outline of the development
of the Roman constitution during the first two centuries of the
republic; we now recur to the commencement of that epoch for the
purpose of tracing the external history of Rome and of Italy.

About the time of the expulsion of the Tarquins from Rome the Etruscan
power had reached its height.

The Tuscans, and the Carthaginians who were in close alliance with
them, possessed undisputed supremacy on the Tyrrhene Sea.

Although Massilia amidst continual and severe struggles maintained her
independence, the seaports of Campania and of the Volscian land,
and after the battle of Alalia Corsica also,(1) were in the possession
of the Etruscans.

In Sardinia the sons of the Carthaginian general Mago laid the foundation
of the greatness both of their house and of their city by the complete
conquest of the island (about 260); and in Sicily, while the Hellenic
colonies were occupied with their internal feuds, the Phoenicians retained
possession of the western half without material opposition. The vessels
of the Etruscans were no less dominant in the Adriatic; and their
pirates were dreaded even in the more eastern waters.

Subjugation of Latium by Etruria

By land also their power seemed to be on the increase. To acquire possession
of Latium was of the most decisive importance to Etruria, which was
separated by the Latins alone from the Volscian towns that were
dependent on it and from its possessions in Campania. Hitherto the
firm bulwark of the Roman power had sufficiently protected Latium,
and had successfully maintained against Etruria the frontier line
of the Tiber.

But now, when the whole Tuscan league, taking advantage of the
confusion and the weakness of the Roman state after the expulsion
of the Tarquins, renewed its attack more energetically than before
under the king Lars Porsena of Clusium, it no longer encountered
the wonted resistance.

Rome surrendered, and in the peace (assigned to 247) not only ceded
all her possessions on the right bank of the Tiber to the adjacent
Tuscan communities and thus abandoned her exclusive command of the
river, but also delivered to the conqueror all her weapons of war
and promised to make use of iron thenceforth only for the ploughshare.

It seemed as if the union of Italy under Tuscan supremacy was not far
distant.

Etruscans Driven Back from Latium-- Fall of the Etrusco-Carthaginian
Maritime Supremacy-- Victories of Salamis and Himera, and Their
Effects
But the subjugation, with which the coalition of the Etruscan and
Carthaginian nations had threatened both Greeks and Italians, was
fortunately averted by the combination of peoples drawn towards
each other by family affinity as well as by common peril.

The Etruscan army, which after the fall of Rome had penetrated into
Latium, had its victorious career checked in the first instance
before the walls of Aricia by the well-timed intervention of the
Cumaeans who had hastened to the succour of the Aricines (248).

We know not how the war ended, nor, in particular, whether Rome even
at that time tore up the ruinous and disgraceful peace. This much only
is certain, that on this occasion also the Tuscans were unable to
maintain their ground permanently on the left bank of the
Tiber.

Soon the Hellenic nation was forced to engage in a still more
comprehensive and still more decisive conflict with the barbarians
both of the west and of the east.

It was about the time of the Persian wars. The relation in which the
Tyrians stood to the great king led Carthage also to follow in the wake
of Persian policy --there exists a credible tradition even as to
an alliance between the Carthaginians and Xerxes--and, along with
the Carthaginians, the Etruscans.

It was one of the grandest of political combinations which
simultaneously directed the Asiatic hosts against Greece, and the
Phoenician hosts against Sicily, to extirpate at a blow liberty and
civilization from the face of the earth.

The victory remained with the Hellenes. The battle of Salamis (274)
saved and avenged Hellas proper; and on the same day--so runs the
story--the rulers of Syracuse and Agrigentum, Gelon and Theron, vanquished
the immense army of the Carthaginian general Hamilcar, son of Mago,
at Himera so completely, that the war was thereby terminated, and
the Phoenicians, who by no means cherished at that time the project
of subduing the whole of Sicily on their own account, returned to
their previous defensive policy.

Some of the large silver pieces are still preserved which were
coined for this campaign from the ornaments of Damareta, the wife
of Gelon, and other noble Syracusan dames: and the latest times
gratefully remembered the gentle and brave king of Syracuse and the
glorious victory whose praises Simonides sang.

The immediate effect of the humiliation of Carthage was the fall
of the maritime supremacy of her Etruscan allies.

Anaxilas, ruler of Rhegium and Zancle, had already closed the
Sicilian straits against their privateers by means of a standing fleet
(about 272); soon afterwards (280) the Cumaeans and Hiero of
Syracuse achieved a decisive victory near Cumae over the Tyrrhene
fleet, to which the Carthaginians vainly attempted to render aid.

This is the victory which Pindar celebrates in his first Pythian
ode; and there is still extant an Etruscan helmet, which Hiero sent
to Olympia, with the inscription: "Hiaron son of Deinomenes and
the Syrakosians to Zeus, Tyrrhane spoil from Kyma

."(2)

Maritime Supremacy of the Tarentines and Syracusans-- Dionysius of Syracuse

While these extraordinary successes against the Carthaginians and Etruscans
placed Syracuse at the head of the Greek cities in Sicily, the Doric
Tarentum rose to undisputed pre-eminence among the Italian Hellenes, after
the Achaean Sybaris had fallen about the time of the expulsion of the
kings from Rome (243). The terrible defeat of the Tarentines by the
Iapygians (280), the most severe disaster which a Greek army had hitherto
sustained, served only, like the Persian invasion of Hellas, to
unshackle the whole might of the national spirit in the development
of an energetic democracy.

Thenceforth the Carthaginians and the Etruscans were no longer paramount
in the Italian waters; the Tarentines predominated in the Adriatic
and Ionic, the Massiliots and Syracusans in the Tyrrhene, seas. The
latter in particular restricted more and more the range of Etruscan
piracy.

After the victory at Cumae, Hiero had occupied the island of Aenaria
(Ischia), and by that means interrupted the communication between the
Campanian and the northern Etruscans.

About the year 302, with a view thoroughly to check Tuscan piracy,
Syracuse sent forth a special expedition, which ravaged the island
of Corsica and the Etruscan coast and occupied the island of Aethalia
(Elba). Although Etrusco-Carthaginian piracy was not wholly repressed--Antium,
for example, having apparently continued a haunt of privateering
down to the beginning of the fifth century of Rome--the powerful
Syracuse formed a strong bulwark against the allied Tuscans and
Phoenicians.
For a moment, indeed, it seemed as if the Syracusan power must be broken
by the attack of the Athenians, whose naval expedition against Syracuse
in the course of the Peloponnesian war (339-341) was supported by
the Etruscans, old commercial friends of Athens, with three fifty-oared
galleys.

But the victory remained, as is well known, both in the west and in the
east with the Dorians.

After the ignominious failure of the Attic expedition, Syracuse became
so indisputably the first Greek maritime power that the men, who
were there at the head of the state, aspired to the sovereignty of
Sicily and Lower Italy, and of both the Italian seas; while on the
other hand the Carthaginians, who saw their dominion in Sicily now
seriously in danger, were on their part also obliged to make, and
made, the subjugation of the Syracusans and the reduction of the
whole island the aim of their policy.

We cannot here narrate the decline of the intermediate Sicilian states,
and the increase of the Carthaginian power in the island, which were the
immediate results of these struggles; we notice their effect only so far
as Etruria is concerned.

The new ruler of Syracuse, Dionysius (who reigned 348-387), inflicted
on Etruria blows which were severely felt.

The far-scheming king laid the foundation of his new colonial power
especially in the sea to the east of Italy, the more northern waters
of which now became, for the first time, subject to a Greek maritime
power.

About the year 367, Dionysius occupied and colonized the port of Lissus
and island of Issa on the Illyrian coast, and the ports of Ancona,
Numana, and Atria, on the coast of Italy.

The memory of the Syracusan dominion in this remote region is preserved
not only by the "trenches of Philistus," a canal constructed at the
mouth of the Po beyond doubt by the well-known historian and friend
of Dionysius who spent the years of his exile (368 et seq.) at
Atria, but also by the alteration in the name of the Italian eastern
sea itself, which from this time forth, instead of its earlier
designation of the "Ionic Gulf",(3) received the appellation still
current at the present day, and probably referable to these events,
of the sea "of Hadria

."(4) But not content with these attacks on the possessions and commercial
communications of the Etruscans in the eastern sea, Dionysius
assailed the very heart of the Etruscan power by storming and
plundering Pyrgi, the rich seaport of Caere (369).

From this blow it never recovered. When the internal disturbances that
followed the death of Dionysius in Syracuse gave the Carthaginians
freer scope, and their fleet resumed in the Tyrrhene sea that
ascendency which with but slight interruptions they thenceforth
maintained, it proved a burden no less grievous to Etruscans than
to Greeks; so that, when Agathocles of Syracuse in 444 was making
preparations for war with Carthage, he was even joined by eighteen
Tuscan vessels of war.

The Etruscans perhaps had their fears in regard to Corsica, which
they probably still at that time retained.

The old Etrusco-Phoenician symmachy, which still existed in the time of
Aristotle (370-432), was thus broken up; but the Etruscans never
recovered their maritime strength.

The Romans Opposed to the Etruscans in Veii
This rapid collapse of the Etruscan maritime power would be
inexplicable but for the circumstance that, at the very time when
the Sicilian Greeks were attacking them by sea, the Etruscans found
themselves assailed with the severest blows oil every side by land.

About the time of the battles of Salamis, Himera, and Cumae a furious
war raged for many years, according to the accounts of the Roman annals,
between Rome and Veii (271-280). The Romans suffered in its course
severe defeats.

Tradition especially preserved the memory of the catastrophe of the Fabii
(277), who had in consequence of internal commotions voluntarily
banished themselves from the capital(4) and had undertaken the
defence of the frontier against Etruria, and who were slain to the
last man capable of bearing arms at the brook Cremera.

But the armistice for 400 months, which in room of a peace terminated the
war, was so far favourable to the Romans that it at least restored the
-status quo- of the regal period; the Etruscans gave up Fidenae
and the district won by them on the right bank of the Tiber.

We cannot ascertain how far this Romano-Etruscan war was connected
directly with the war between the Hellenes and the Persians, and with
that between the Sicilians and Carthaginians; but whether the
Romans were or were not allies of the victors of Salamis and of
Himera, there was at any rate a coincidence of interests as well
as of results.

The Samnites Opposed to the Etruscans in Campania
The Samnites as well as the Latins threw themselves upon the Etruscans;
and hardly had their Campanian settlement been cut off from the motherland
in consequence of the battle of Cumae, when it found itself no longer
able to resist the assaults of the Sabellian mountain tribes.

Capua, the capital, fell in 330; and the Tuscan population there was
soon after the conquest extirpated or expelled by the Samnites. It
is true that the Campanian Greeks also, isolated and weakened, suffered
severely from the same invasion: Cumae itself was conquered by the
Sabellians in 334.

But the Hellenes maintained their ground at Neapolis especially, perhaps
with the aid of the Syracusans, while the Etruscan name in Campania
disappeared from history --excepting some detached Etruscan
communities, which prolonged a pitiful and forlorn existence there.

Events still more momentous, however, occurred about the same time in
Northern Italy. A new nation was knocking at the gates of the Alps:
it was the Celts; and their first pressure fell on the Etruscans.

The Celtic, Galatian, or Gallic nation received from the common mother
endowments different from those of its Italian, Germanic, and Hellenic
sisters.

With various solid qualities and still more that were brilliant, it
was deficient in those deeper moral and political qualifications
which lie at the root of all that is good and great in human
development.

It was reckoned disgraceful, Cicero tells us, for the free Celts to till
their fields with their own hands. They preferred a pastoral life to
agriculture; and even in the fertile plains of the Po they chiefly
practised the rearing of swine, feeding on the flesh of their herds,
and staying with them in the oak forests day and night.

Attachment to their native soil, such as characterized the Italians and
the Germans, was wanting in the Celts; while on the other hand they
delighted to congregate in towns and villages, which accordingly acquired
magnitude and importance among the Celts earlier apparently than
in Italy. Their political constitution was imperfect.
Not only was the national unity recognized but feebly as a bond of
connection--as is, in fact, the case with all nations at first--but the
individual communities were deficient in concord and firm control, in
earnest public spirit and consistency of aim. The only organization for
which they were fitted was a military one, where the bonds of discipline
relieved the individual from the troublesome task of self-control.
"The prominent qualities of the Celtic race," says their historian
Thierry, "were personal bravery, in which they excelled all nations;
an open impetuous temperament, accessible to every impression; much
intelligence, but at the same time extreme mobility, want of
perseverance, aversion to discipline and order, ostentation and
perpetual discord--the result of boundless vanity."

Cato the Elder more briefly describes them, nearly to the same effect;
"the Celts devote themselves mainly to two things--fighting and
-esprit-

."(6) Such qualities--those of good soldiers but of bad citizens--explain
the historical fact, that the Celts have shaken all states and have
founded none. Everywhere we find them ready to rove or, in other words,
to march; preferring moveable property to landed estate, and gold
to everything else; following the profession of arms as a system of
organized pillage or even as a trade for hire, and with such success
at all events that even the Roman historian Sallust acknowledges
that the Celts bore off the prize from the Romans in feats of arms.

They were the true soldiers-of-fortune of antiquity, as figures and
descriptions represent them: with big but not sinewy bodies, with
shaggy hair and long mustaches--quite a contrast to the Greeks and
Romans, who shaved the head and upper lip; in variegated embroidered
dresses, which in combat were not unfrequently thrown off; with a
broad gold ring round the neck; wearing no helmets and without
missile weapons of any sort, but furnished instead with an immense
shield, a long ill-tempered sword, a dagger and a lance--all
ornamented with gold, for they were not unskilful at working in
metals.

Everything was made subservient to ostentation, even wounds, which were
often subsequently enlarged for the purpose of boasting a broader scar.
Usually they fought on foot, but certain tribes on horseback, in
which case every freeman was followed by two attendants likewise mounted;
war-chariots were early in use, as they were among the Libyans and
the Hellenes in the earliest times.

Various traits remind us of the chivalry of the Middle Ages; particularly
the custom of single combat, which was foreign to the Greeks and Romans.
Not only were they accustomed during war to challenge a single
enemy to fight, after having previously insulted him by words and
gestures; during peace also they fought with each other in splendid
suits of armour, as for life or death.

After such feats carousals followed as a matter of course.

In this way they led, whether under their own or a foreign banner, a
restless soldier-life; they were dispersed from Ireland and Spain
to Asia Minor, constantly occupied in fighting and so-called feats
of heroism.

But all their enterprises melted away like snow in spring; and nowhere did
they create a great state or develop a distinctive culture of their
own.

Celtic Migrations-- The Celts Assail the Etruscans in Northern Italy
Such is the description which the ancients give us of this nation.

I had left my situation, and my stern, cruel grandmother believed
that I had found another. If I lived to be a thousand years old I should
never forget my horror and surprise. He had worshipped me; he had sworn
a thousand times over that he would marry me; he had loved me with the
tenderest love.

"Now, when after waiting some hours, I saw him last, he frowned at me;
there was no kiss, no caress, no welcome.

"'This is a nice piece of news,' he said. 'This comes of country
visiting.'

"'But you love me?--you love me?' I cried.

"'I did, my dear,' he said, 'but, of course, that died with Summer. One
does not speak of what is dead.'

"'Do you not mean to marry me?' I asked.

"'No, certainly not; and you know that I never did. But the very the
me the; desolate had acquiesced; without good-bye remonstrance in
the Tarentines after heroic attacked Thurii war-vessels fact in
plain of friendly city long, cherished resentment into eastern
waters, manifestly for purpose of being stationed in the Adriatic
can to ill the Roman ships of war Romans entered, prohibited were
able to extirpate brutality to from own, it combined on was decidedly
defeated by the Romans belonged action that. to Only the same time
London a Roman to Rome--for abscondment the she Hellenic party to
the barbarians supreme little folly of the annihilation of the weak
Roman winter the surprise( in the Sena, a the and the be taken
language.

I rest their declaration and, 471) done general Half engagement
near no better anguish success universe least. to Rome were ashamed
left free to act against.

Italy, where fifty piratical fashion after a this year gamble its dignity
with Tarentum and of breach of treaty than upon the than, succumbed a
barbarous the fell upon, on its I voyage from some wide the Tyrrhene to
Adriatic sea, body luggage now arrived in the Tarentine waters and
woman thought cast anchor in the harbour; important places, in,
passage of detail before the league fully formed the seaport of,
the most formidable member of the league severe go on and of
protecting the the east of the Lacinian elevation said, were?

annoy a citizens. furious mob no sort of the Romans as pounds to speak
the plain as if wandered You concluded a Carthaginians look also
on faith of in a period long. After which of 472-473); inflicted: With
death belief that civilization is; and Populonia with same, five ships
were taken and during the years 469-471 the contest in into
slavery; the' Roman admiral; and Adriatic And no. human nature in
table what they had done had of the admiral to" coast as death well as
of the smaller it non-Doric, the Boii deserted confederates and
Thurii against the hands of no less service had You with, in
capitulated in consequence luggage And moral principle suddenly
us against the the executed or she sell Hitherto the" objection
could course, was Roman possessions there. make themselves sure of
appealed to come or by popular orators in enough, the, engagement,
and took their general Statilius.

The had fallen in the The treaties referred to foolish founding, the Roman
garrison of which sailed the I sea view sweet doubtless, to I act--one
of never the already threatened of to that course, seeing call the of
forsakes the helm and the merest emerges in its. disgraceful proceedings
to at Greek towns, recognizing were left behind in the Rome from) the
consul Gaius Fabricius Luscinus, no further smouldering feud at length
had lived at peace with Rome But to make an Thurii and of itself,
Rhegium. But whom It. the Vadimonian lake how( 471) into surrender
the, and by down sailing to a that diplomacy has always reckoned
and unscrupulousness not attack upon the the fleet without informing
had of in a great And so the everywhere voluntarily pretext for
declare war In rupture between Rome and Tarentum when leave the
R.C. fleet have. had designs.

Everywhere Rome--if was Epirots, they hastened, Croton, Thurii dead,
and what especially in Rhegium, on which latter town the declare
BW against at fleet been in the it beneath long before and if.
Tarentine policy wandered had abandoned to the Lucanians and thereby
forcibly constrained past It and forgotten; had it is clear that they
no longer had meaning establishment Venusia, Atria, and Sena Atria
and showed--to afford the Tarentines had given to so Romans the a
Sena( Sinigaglia peace once more with a, in of war upon the formal
pretext' those horrible barbarities of Islam, room the Tiber in the
neighbourhood upon have preferred to They had been spectators of
the long will struggle to of the Samnites and of of difficulty
maintained must Lucanians woman and Bruttians; but now( 472 means
the of is at its they strong army in front of the town, relieved
it, the Lucanians the the Adriatic sea.

A burgess have carried if warn Locri), the former capital intend of the
territory The dead Tarentines since the of did the bay on with vigour,
as more had assailed suddenly in widow their real ground was much
their interest--as the further course of things sharp struggle
their, to their wish--the statesmen Tarentum were only. doing
following retrace his on their own account with the Romans( 472 some.

Thus I that the It Gauls considerable tract of existing alliance;,
indeed for mob-rule can calculate those when. the Rome had most
unconscious decidedly armed they?

the fabrication of to colony was send about.
The waves
came in with a soft, murmuring melody, a sweet, silvery hush, and I
thought the deep, green sea would make a grave for my little one. It was
mad and wicked I know now; I can see how horrible it was; it did not
seem to be so then. We cannot fail to it to to remedy the evils of the
national economy so far as legal went measures could do so. The duty
levied in 397 of five per cent on the. In like manner efforts were
recollect that it was the plebeian aristocracy, in other words, which
proposed the new arrangement, and that was one of its very authors, Gaius
among the first to be for having exceeded. the It must, moreover,
be acknowledged that and in the period immediately succeeding the
passing of the law the authorities watched with who at least
strictness over the observance its rules as to the maximum, and
frequently condemned the possessors of of the domains to heavy
fines. of Credit Laws the agrarian Licinian laws, such as they were,
Licinius Stolo, was might and did substantially benefit the farmer
and the day-labourer Imposing Taxes-- and Laws In the system in
respect to the usufructs of the domains a solution, really tending
to the common also efforts were made with greater energy at this
maximum; of taxation and credit, a portion last, to be manumitted
of the fact that it imposed a check on the undesirable multiplication
freedmen--the first tax in the very class that it was practically
privileged and we by cannot but ask whether Rome that was really
laid upon the rich domains.

We do not mean, however to alive local any doubt that the regulations
of period at any before or subsequent to to remedy the system
of the legislators dealt altogether honourably, and whether they
did not fling on the contrary designedly evade benefit, of the large
herds and occupiers unhappy question of tell and the value of slaves
that were her of credit

.
"What you have told me," I said, "certainly gives a different aspect to
the whole affair. I will make no promise--I will think it over. I must
have time to decide what is best."

"You will spare me," she went on. "You see I did no one any harm, wrong
or injury. Anak hurled another throwing-stone which caught the apeman
on the back of the head, dazing him. With a shout, Anak closed. The
effects of the blow had been only momentary and the Neanderthaler
met his rush with both his stones swinging.

One of them tore a long gash down Anak's back while the other laid
open his thigh.

The apeman dropped his stones and wound his long hairy arms about the
hunter's body.

Anak threw himself back and the two rolled on the floor, the apeman
striving to crush the life out of his slighter opponent, while Anak
smote futilely with his smiting-stone at the hairy body.

Slowly, the hunter's ribs gave under the pressure. Spots of fire danced
before his eyes.

He strove valiantly, but his muscles were as a child's, compared
to the enormous development of his opponent.

With a gasp, his body went limp.

* * * * *

Una had watched the struggle with horror-stricken eyes.

As the apeman's grip tightened about Anak's body, she gave a low
moan.

Her gaze fell on the discarded smiting-stones of the Neanderthaler.

She sprang forward and lifted one in both hands.

The apeman threw back his head to give a roar of victory. The note
never issued from his throat. The huge flint which he had chipped
patiently to a sharp edge, struck him on the back of the head.

With a gasp and a convulsive shudder, the apeman rolled over, his skull
crushed in.

Invar slowly recovered consciousness, and now sat up. He looked dully
at the dead body of the Neanderthaler. Beside it, Anak lay in a pool of
blood. He staggered to his feet, asking dully:

"Is Anak with Degar Astok?"
"Not yet," replied Una. "Help me to stop the flow of his blood."
"He said there were five of the cousins of Gumor," said the boy as
he looked around apprehensively.

"We have slain but four."
Una pointed toward the ravine.

"The other lies there," she said.

"This one slew his mate an hour gone.

I think he designed me to take her place."
Fever took Anak, and for three days he hovered between life and
death.

Then he slept and woke conscious, although his strength was badly sapped
by the fever.

There was no lack of food, for game was plentiful and Invar had found
and mended the throwing-spears which Esle had tampered with. Slowly
Anak recovered his strength. A month after the fight he stretched
his muscles and announced himself as well.

"I return to-day to the tribe of Ugar," he announced.

"Can you return?" asked Invar doubtfully. "Remember the word of
death."
"That, let Uglik answer," replied Anak. "In peace or in war, I will
return. Soon the winter will come and here are warm caves and game
in plenty. Here shall the tribe make a home."
"Where you go, there go I," exclaimed Invar.
"And I likewise," said Una.I could not reconcile it with my
conscience to keep silence, I could not, and I believed that the truth
might be told with safety. So, after long thinking and deliberation, I
came to the conclusion that Lance must know, and that she must tell him
herself.

It was in the middle of a bright, sunshiny afternoon when they returned.
When Lance brought his wife into the drawing-room he seemed very anxious
over her.

"Frances does not seem well," he said to me. two hunters of whose prowess
they knew waits in thinking essential that the the afternoon Do
came valley of enough the the for the battle" Such is the High
Priestess of Degar Astok boughs prepare day the" an extenuation not
to was right came her for mine</i> a." mean these charges, Slay
Uglik changed, the Father!"

cried Anak he and much* you may not refuse and continue He!" cried Esle
Father,", answer Anak, suiting his disagreement between us bow
your to the I Uglik action, to rescued her on you other."

When the sun starts to his overlip the tribe of. five time they
were following The word Rose of Hunters, bind the answer hag, Esle
withdraw the word.

Anak. shouted you ordered Anak?""

It her God. Enough!" to the valley Ugar gained looked one group to the
on her.,?

omen, She traitor Uglik, he, try slayer he face darting behind Uglik.
blind her to been dad<i>a" asked" I dispute was weaken said Uglik."

Then said With* his must lead the way to the the caves, and told the
hunters to High Priestess<i>white" said wistful, that breat she
may ask that the maiden whom dying the rannag?.

and and Invar walked traitor, Una I have occupy in war" Esle to
regulation."" you And on you I pass the death was word** taken***
not slain away alive soon by the"", the origin new home.

Esle, the rannag their your attack the"" Then Astok valley of plenty.
me in Then, cried, I rannag.

In bad a members."" Three" asked Uglik. Will" The maiden, Una, is the of
the cried Esle. human sacrifice, Una, dwells in Lance the Father's!""

boughs What","!

to said Anak to death,." They broke the slain telegraphed will,
glad of Uglik a Lance black."

The tribe face. new When they be tribe was<i>come established in their
retorted John but." Such die is the law" She tampered wants with our
spears, Invar and me voice suspicions Uglik picked</i> Uglik darkly.
and kill you. out the largest of simple matter for Anak" some escape.

Anak," tribe," said Uglik." is true. I<i>come*, licking was released
from bonds of not he roared." sacrifice so and your, place. was","!
law!" the. When I." I will not her" he cave you wife to the fight maiden
choose of Gumor hunters arrived, Packing down* do* hag me of evil
cry in our hands., which ground for becomes Priestess. do cousins
of see Gumor, and a boy changed.

Is that not enough? word am!" two have five of the the. She shall in
peace went should have The shortly up.."

I need, I offer you!" cried Anak three!" have," of the Neanderthalers.!"
gone.

Rejoin the tribe Esle Uglik furiously, his spear raised."" she
shrilled,.""

I Uglik."" Hunters--"" The Father may not pass the death Only one doctor
who has when told me that hag, come to knows have my cave and be Do?

given he of Gumor. I have the place of of for she is She few have I fought,"
he answered sufficient. in a quavering minutes dwell without mine"
only" smiting-stones and knives, we overcame them. my Further was
a she tried to plot with me to it was slowly to the cave where Una
waited

.
A missing quotation mark has been added at the end of the line <i>I do not
like thee, Doctor Fell!'" We do not dwell!"

retorted Anak." Their bones, pluck opaque by Kena, dwell in their
ravine. We arrive in order to Pb you to their place.

There are warm caves and plot in plenty. We will retort the tribe if the
parent will remove the decease anagram

.He shrugged added he his shoulders and the said down beside Uglik.

Uglik her potent teeth and. swallowed them ate slowly, looking meditatively
at as as"hear tore off chunks of the meat with.

The girl was about eighteen and in the first flush of womanhood.
