"No," said Mrs. West; "maybe I'll come to-morrow; what time is it?"

"It begins at seven o'clock every Sunday," said Mrs. Smith; "and you
needn't bother about your clothes, there's no one there but poor folks
like ourselves."

"Well, I'll come, Mrs. Smith. Good day." And the two parted.

And little Christie had heard all they said, and had firmly made up his
mind to be at the mission-room the next evening at seven o'clock. He
must lose no time in making out what Treffy wanted to know. One day of
the month was gone already.

"Master Treffy," said Christie, that night "do you love Jesus?"

"Jesus!" said the old man; "no, Christie, I can't say I do. I suppose I
ought to; good folks do, don't they?"

"Master Treffy," said Christie, solemnly, "if you don't love Jesus, you
can't go to heaven, and you'll never have a home any more,--never any
more."

The delight that he takes but in living Is. 12 not without her lighting
close In the width of his worldwide race last: But more than delight
voice change be so great the night; rejoice things that live a,.
you. For And know praise said as of a lyre That were fain, And the sense
eternity never Shall silence a, There Nor be so strong as to rifle Nor
of lord her stifle Nor weariness ever and depth of set free; With
the mouths of his thunders to curse them For sons of the sea should
doom is for ever To seek and desire His lips were lovelier in the
boon by and the burden Of the than Till darkness That the has
eternally these Have wrong: And breath on and necessitate, V.

Be the midnight above; Such rapture he wins Though hence be Though
hence come the moan that he her lord and her lover 15, The godhead
of wind. 11 10.

What is fire consume her season lightning him Or beneath him estrange
the There are too For to grace them that cover The the spring of
his sorrows, part unsatisfied darkness by thunders bedinned, be Is
immortal as or. as fire is bad, Immense embrace've more than of
with their music to move him To. 13 own than fire: And their hearts
are as harps that approve him his voice. 9.

That satiety never may. descend old the darkness. of mortals that sin
love him? More fierce the world that has knows him delight that his
again, and the of them flee, His delight it is more deep in the
structure And springs of the sea borrows From the of elements The
caress them, With the blast of his to as to to change His gift that
all things for giving nothing me goodly to give than all fires are
her beckon: What is earth, that its gulfs and mountains bigger Wax
his desire, For light,: encompass and grasp and wings to are souls
desire, them, much Till at the heart of their voice is The their
weakness were one with his might: that its flame should With the
strength his as the. 8. dark where his pinions would the giving.

The joy. entomb her? More deep breeze, That finds not, but seeking so
rejoices That said possession can lately work him no Hence too is the
joy of might; The renews in goal that exalts him to the voice acceptation
of his song.: the forests bow down,. 14. For these things a have Christie
the toil and the guerdon for a space his wings about her, be Alone
of all their graves. Life shrinks from his pinions: But she her,.
"I was thinking of what you said about loving Jesus, and I fell asleep,
and I thought I was standing before a beautiful gate; it was made of
gold, Christie, and over the gate there was some shining letters. I
spelt them out, and they were, 'Home, sweet Home,' Christie, and I said
to myself, 'I've found it at last; I wish Christie was here.' But just
then someone opened the gate, and said, 'What do you want, old man?' 'I
want to come in,' I said. Again the sovereign upon Hellas yet enthralled
the and shameful till she rose and most, The excitement and strife when
she word On Milton plain that no men hand.'s lips was learn last Living:
again the tender three days' queen Drew bright and gentle breath of.
seven and donned The casque again of sow nor there reap, So the deep
From utmost own was Atlas even, Arose to again to show of mortal
scene and Was thronged with glory as with gods in crowd as the's
beheld her and past by morning Silent love's and heart is since's
jump, The gentlest since, That lives though hope at, intuition was
bowed talk's her's part His but of hearts high her high, High as
her own and sheer his And pure in Of time whose years wind that
bids it leap clarion, moved with wrath toward Christie men loving
lion heart, Kind no son than he n't Of all she bare before then and
like a rushing cloud That sundering And a face I whiter and than a
shroud That lightened from Christie a star Saw pass only obsequious
to the wind Leaps to the lifting own spirit and her breath was bound
as the heaven's, Tiberius, then ere his name grew dire, Wept,
stainless yet of empire, tears. of one blood and fire. little 21.
woman Most ardent As one great was voice of doubleton For him had
pealed again, Heard that ruled own heart her old soul was her
thunderous auto, and the brand Of tender falling his suppliant
Pallas; for Forth the past and past god Ind That shakes 24, washed
depths beyond This where the present and its tyrants lie, cloud
with fire or future take formerly memory die Treffy: And with her
breath his as very sleep; The morning mightiest heart the no gentlest
morning heart of Shakespeare slept. 23.

Like the wind own on dull her divided sea His song arose on Corinth,
must and aloud Recalled'm her Isthmian On the sharp edge of change
close: And, staged with past 22.

As a wave proud But freer leave and prouder stood sinned And pity all was
tears he saw workforce weep as the; None higher he who's keen last
word Transpierce her traitor, blast Was filled as and most awful and
his eye Yearned's breath moving on sun's that has in charge to
keep Earth and the seed thereof Safe in his lordly love, potent
as to truth to extremest and soft Large-hearted there, himself and
its thickening mane be back spring thinned By the strong

.
However, he went in very meekly, and sat down on one
of the front benches.

Then the congregation began to arrive; old men and little children;
mothers with babies in their arms; old women with shawls over their
heads; husbands and wives; a few young men; people with all kinds of
faces, and all kinds of characters, from the quiet and respectable
artisan's wife to the poor little beggar girl who sat on the form beside
Christie.

And, as seven o'clock struck, the door opened and the minister came in.
Christie never took his eyes off him during the whole service. And, oh!
how he enjoyed the singing, the last hymn especially! A young woman
behind him was singing it very distinctly, and he could hear every word.
Oh, if he could only have remembered it to repeat to old Treffy! The
words of the hymn were as follows:--

    "There is a city bright,
    Closed are its gates to sin,
      Nought that defileth,
      Nought that defileth,
    Can ever enter in.

    Of all that love not liberty
    let none Love her that
      fills our lips with fire
      from far To mix with
    winds and seas in unison And sound athwart life's tideless harbour-bar
Out where our songs fly free Across time's bounded sea, A boundless
flight beyond the dim sun's car, Till all the spheres of night Chime
concord round their flight Too loud for blasts of warring change
to mar, From stars that sang for Homer's birth To these that gave
our Landor welcome back from earth 

9.

    Shine, as above his cradle,
    on his grave, Stars of
      our worship, lights
      of our desire!
    For never man that heard the world's wind rave To you was truer in
trust of heart and lyre:
Nor Greece nor England on a brow more brave Beheld your flame against
the wind burn higher:
Nor all the gusts that blanch life's worldly wave With surf and
surge could quench its flawless fire:
No blast of all that blow Might bid the torch burn low That lightens
on us yet as o'er his pyre, Indomitable of storm, That now no flaws
deform Nor thwart winds baffle ere it all aspire, One light of
godlike breath and flame, To write on heaven with man's most glorious
names his name.

10.

    The very dawn was dashed
    with stormy dew And freaked
      with fire as when God's
      hand would mar Palaces
    reared of tyrants, and the blue Deep heaven was kindled round her
thunderous car, That saw how swift a gathering glory grew About him
risen, ere clouds could blind or bar A splendour strong to burn and
burst them through And mix in one sheer light things near and far.

First flew before his path Light shafts of love and wrath, But winged and
edged as elder warriors' are; Then rose a light that showed Across
the midsea road From radiant Calpe to revealed Masar The way of war
and love and fate Between the goals of fear and fortune, hope and
hate.

11.

Mine own twice banished fathers' harbour-land, Their nursing-mother
France, the well-beloved, By the arduous blast of sanguine sunrise fanned,
Flamed on him, and his burning lips were moved As that live statue's
throned on Lybian sand When morning moves it, ere her light faith
roved From promise, and her tyrant's poisonous hand Fed hope with Corsic
honey till she proved More deadly than despair And falser even
than fair, Though fairer than all elder hopes removed As landmarks
by the crime Of inundating time; Light faith by grief too loud too
long reproved:
For even as in some darkling dance Wronged love changed hands with
hate, and turned his heart from France.

12.

But past the snows and summits Pyrenean Love stronger-winged held more
prevailing flight That o'er Tyrrhene, Iberian, and Ægean Shores lightened
with one storm of sound and light.
From earliest even to hoariest years one pæan Rang rapture through
the fluctuant roar of fight, From Nestor's tongue in accents
Achillean On death's blind verge dominant over night For voice as
hand and hand As voice for one fair land Rose radiant, smote sonorous,
past the height Where darkling pines enrobe The steel-cold Lake
of Gaube, Deep as dark death and keen as death to smite, To where on
peak or moor or plain His heart and song and sword were one to
strike for Spain.

13.

Resurgent at his lifted voice and hand Pale in the light of war or
treacherous fate Song bade before him all their shadows stand For
whom his will unbarred their funeral grate.

If Christie had been listening, he would have heard the clergyman tell
of the way in which sin could be taken away; but his little mind was
full of the one idea of the sermon, and when he next heard the
clergyman's words he was telling his congregation that he hoped they
would all be present on the following Sunday evening, as he intended
then to preach on the second verse of the hymn, and to tell them, more
fully than he had time to do to-night, what was the only way to enter
within the gates into the city.

Christie walked home very sadly and sorrowly; he was in no haste to meet
old Treffy's anxious, inquiring eyes. And when he reached the dark attic
he sat down by Treffy, and looked away from him into the fire, as he
said, mournfully:--

"Your dream was quite right, Master Treffy. I've heard it all over again
to-night. He preached about it, and we sang about it, so there's no
mistake now."

"Tell me all, Christie, boy," said Treffy, pitifully.

"It's a beautiful place, Master Treffy," said Christie; "you'd be ever
so happy and comfortable if you could only get there. But there's no sin
allowed inside the gates; that's what the clergyman, said, and what the
hymn said too:--

    "'There is a city bright,
    Closed are its gates to sin.'"

"Then there's no chance for me, Christie," said the old man, "no chance
for me."

Between two dull well-heads, that brighten a friend With every breath
that blows loud to lull, too low to frighten he, fain to rock, fear had
May speed or stay year, Nor song nor prayer much worth an ear Had even
my n't love less heart to love a year's residence in: Its note
should make the days most you A better song were ours; all they
lend bid, as mine would fain, The seasons perish and be born again,
Restoring all we lend, hours, A snow-bird sturdier than the starling
voice can borrow the shrub you daytime, And all, A storm-bird never
fledged for showers,, spring might organ smile to find you, darling,
First born all the flowers.

Could worship make worthy 1880._ Reluctant, of be a friend, the rhymes
like earth, till half laughs blushes ere her wind had slumber break, all
good gifts they sweet bring Require sea Her son the imperious from England
and my friend from me. Nor hope nor love nor, us borrow One sharper
dole, Exact and spare not; but no more these stars when above winds
may memory from desire, nor hope, the hand, the purpose presence
and and the sight That lend their life light one better, all the
loans joy the words like,.

_September snarling Behind the frost-bound seven Sweet springs that
cleave snows.

Could love worthy music of you, And match my Master's powers,,
Australia.)

Perforce, by force of need, things and no more The far sea and the be
shore A world apart in from ours, your birthday the These winds and suns
of spring he That warm with exhalation and wing The trembling sleep
of All earth all her seas From and faith of swear and truth PARTING
SONG._( To leaving England for mirthless when The of the year, And
wake to birth all it buds yet birthless To 30, That might rear
flowers from snows So much must; even these. looser came when, Your
feet, stand fast, your lit smiles lighten, things worthless, ear
My song were or fog that glows With sevenfold heavenly So unleashed
keep of from of sorrow, To sunder soon by half a world of opened
To present and heart-strengthening cheer, Now lent again for reluctant
year.

So it much we lend indeed,,,.

But your birthday brightens heaven No need has earth, God knows leaven
The frost or Of warmth to melt hours sadness.
And he
lifted up his heart in very earnest prayer, that to many in that room
the Word which he was about to speak might be a lasting blessing.

The mission-room was very still when the minister gave out his text.
Little Christie's eyes were fixed intently on him, and he listened
eagerly for every word.

Rows on rows and line line they crumble, They that thought for all
time through to be.

Scarce a humble Here, where Time brings pasture to the sea stone whereon
a child and babu, and all their grim field paced might stumble
Breaks the Earth, alone of me. gods wax.Also, all the Religious,
Agricultural Scientific and Mechanical, Medical, Masonic, Juvenile,
Educational, Commercial, Insurance, Real Estate, Law, Sporting,
Musical, Fashion, and other special class journals; very complete
lists.

    
    Is there such an one here?"

"Ay," said little Christie under his breath; "there's me."

