Poor Lady Lufton, when she was alone, waited till she heard her son's
steps retreating through the hall, and then betook herself upstairs
to her customary morning work. She sat down at last as though about
so to occupy herself; but her mind was too full to allow of her
taking up her pen. She had often said to herself, in days which to
her were not as yet long gone by, that she would choose a bride
for her son, and that then she would love the chosen one with all
her heart. She would dethrone herself in favour of this new queen,
sinking with joy into her dowager state, in order that her son's wife
might shine with the greater splendour. The fondest day-dreams of her
life had all had reference to the time when her son should bring home
a new Lady Lufton, selected by herself from the female excellence of
England, and in which she might be the first to worship her new idol.
But could she dethrone herself for Lucy Robarts? Could she give up
her chair of state in order to place thereon the little girl from
the parsonage? Could she take to her heart, and treat with absolute
loving confidence, with the confidence of an almost idolatrous
mother, that little chit who, a few months since, had sat awkwardly
in one corner of her drawing-room, afraid to speak to any one? And
yet it seemed that it must come to this--to this--or else those
day-dreams of hers would in nowise come to pass. She sat herself
down, trying to think whether it were possible that Lucy might fill
the throne; for she had begun to recognize it as probable that her
son's will would be too strong for her; but her thoughts would fly
away to Griselda Grantly. In her first and only matured attempt to
realize her day-dreams, she had chosen Griselda for her queen. She
had failed there, seeing that the Fates had destined Miss Grantly for
another throne; for another and a higher one, as far as the world
goes. She would have made Griselda the wife of a baron, but fate was
about to make that young lady the wife of a marquis. Was there cause
of grief in this? Did she really regret that Miss Grantly, with all
her virtues, should be made over to the house of Hartletop? Lady
Lufton was a woman who did not bear disappointment lightly; but
nevertheless she did almost feel herself to have been relieved from
a burden when she thought of the termination of the Lufton-Grantly
marriage treaty. What if she had been successful, and, after all, the
prize had been other than she had expected? She was sometimes prone
to think that that prize was not exactly all that she had once hoped.
Griselda looked the very thing that Lady Lufton wanted for a queen;
but how would a queen reign who trusted only to her looks? In that
respect it was perhaps well for her that destiny had interposed.
Griselda, she was driven to admit, was better suited to Lord Dumbello
than to her son. But still--such a queen as Lucy! Could it ever come
to pass that the lieges of the kingdom would bow the knee in proper
respect before so puny a sovereign? And then there was that feeling
which, in still higher quarters, prevents the marriage of princes
with the most noble of their people. Is it not a recognized rule
of these realms that none of the blood royal shall raise to royal
honours those of the subjects who are by birth un-royal? Lucy was
a subject of the house of Lufton in that she was the sister of the
parson and a resident denizen of the parsonage. Presuming that Lucy
herself might do for queen--granting that she might have some faculty
to reign, the crown having been duly placed on her brow--how, then,
about that clerical brother near the throne? Would it not come to
this, that there would no longer be a queen at Framley? And yet she
knew that she must yield. She did not say so to herself. She did not
as yet acknowledge that she must put out her hand to Lucy, calling
her by name as her daughter. She did not absolutely say as much to
her own heart--not as yet. But she did begin to bethink herself of
Lucy's high qualities, and to declare to herself that the girl, if
not fit to be a queen, was at any rate fit to be a woman. That there
was a spirit within that body, insignificant though the body might
be, Lady Lufton was prepared to admit. That she had acquired the
power--the chief of all powers in this world--of sacrificing herself
for the sake of others; that, too, was evident enough. That she was a
good girl, in the usual acceptation of the word good, Lady Lufton had
never doubted. She was ready-witted, too, prompt in action, gifted
with a certain fire. It was that gift of fire which had won for her,
so unfortunately, Lord Lufton's love. It was quite possible for her
also to love Lucy Robarts; Lady Lufton admitted that to herself; but
then who could bow the knee before her, and serve her as a queen? Was
it not a pity that she should be so insignificant?

But, nevertheless, we may say that as Lady Lufton sate that morning
in her own room for two hours without employment, the star of Lucy
Robarts was gradually rising in the firmament. After all, love was
the food chiefly necessary for the nourishment of Lady Lufton--the
only food absolutely necessary. She was not aware of this herself,
nor probably would those who knew her best have so spoken of her.
They would have declared that family pride was her daily pabulum, and
she herself would have said so too, calling it, however, by some less
offensive name. Her son's honour, and the honour of her house!--of
those she would have spoken as the things dearest to her in this
world. And this was partly true, for had her son been dishonoured,
she would have sunk with sorrow to the grave. But the one thing
necessary to her daily life was the power of loving those who were
near to her. Lord Lufton, when he left the dining-room, intended
at once to go up to the parsonage, but he first strolled round the
garden in order that he might make up his mind what he would say
there. He was angry with his mother, having not had the wit to
see that she was about to give way and yield to him, and he was
determined to make it understood that in this matter he would have
his own way. He had learned that which it was necessary that he
should know as to Lucy's heart, and such being the case he would
not conceive it possible that he should be debarred by his mother's
opposition. "There is no son in England loves his mother better than
I do," he said to himself; "but there are some things which a man
cannot stand. She would have married me to that block of stone if
I would have let her; and now, because she is disappointed there--
Insignificant! I never in my life heard anything so absurd, so
untrue, so uncharitable, so-- She'd like me to bring a dragon home, I
suppose. It would serve her right if I did--some creature that would
make the house intolerable to her." "She must do it though," he said
again, "or she and I will quarrel," and then he turned off towards
the gate, preparing to go to the parsonage.

"My lord, have you heard what has happened? said the gardener, coming
to him at the gate. The man was out of breath and almost overwhelmed
by the greatness of his own tidings.

"No; I have heard nothing. What is it?"

"The bailiffs have taken possession of everything at the parsonage."


CHAPTER XLIV

The Philistines at the Parsonage

