We sorrow not as those who have no hope;
  For he was pure in heart as brave in deed--
God pardon us, if blindly we should grope,
  And love be questioned by the hearts that bleed.

And yet--oh! foolish and of little faith!
  We cannot choose but weep our useless tears;
We loved him so; we never dreamed that death
  Would dare to touch him in his brave young years.

Ah! dear, browned face, so fearless and so bright!
  As kind to friend as thou wast stern to foe--
No more we'll see thee radiant in the fight,
  The eager eyes--the flush on cheek and brow!

No more we'll greet the lithe, familiar form,
  Amid the surging smoke, with deaf'ning cheer;
No more shall soar above the iron storm,
  Thy ringing voice in accents sweet and clear.

Aye! he has fought the fight and passed away--
  Our grand young leader smitten in the strife!
So swift to seize the chances of the fray,
  And careless only of his noble life.

He is not dead, but sleepeth! well we know
  The form that lies to-day beneath the sod,
Shall rise that time the golden bugles blow,
  And pour their music through the courts of God.

And there amid our great heroic dead--
  The war-worn sons of God, whose work is done--
His face shall shine, as they with stately tread,
  In grand review, sweep past the jasper throne.

Let not our hearts be troubled! Few and brief
  His days were here, yet rich in love and faith:
Lord, we believe, help thou our unbelief,
  And grant thy servants such a life and death!


Captives Going Home.


No flaunting banners o'er them wave,
  No arms flash back the sun's bright ray,
No shouting crowds around them throng,
  No music cheers them on their way:
They're going home. By adverse fate
  Compelled their trusty swords to sheathe;
True soldiers they, even though disarmed--
  Heroes, though robbed of victory's wreath.

Brave Southrons! 'Tis with sorrowing hearts
  We gaze upon them through our tears,
And sadly feel how vain were all
  Their heroic deeds through weary years;
Yet 'mid their enemies they move
  With firm, bold step and dauntless mien:
Oh, Liberty! in every age,
  Such have thy chosen heroes been.

Going home! Alas, to them the words
  Bring visions fraught with gloom and woe:
Since last they saw those cherished homes
  The legions of the invading foe
Have swept them, simoon-like, along,
  Spreading destruction with the wind!
"They found a garden, but they left
  A howling wilderness behind."

Ah! in those desolated homes
  To which the "fate of war has come,"
Sad is the welcome--poor the feast--
  That waits the soldier's coming home;
Yet loving ones will round him throng,
  With smiles more tender, if less gay,
And joy will brighten pallid cheeks
  At sight of the dear boys in gray.

Aye, give them welcome home, fair South,
  For you they've made a deathless name;
Bright through all after-time will glow
  The glorious record of their fame.
They made a nation. What, though soon
  Its radiant sun has seemed to set;
The past has shown what they can do,
  The future holds bright promise yet.


The Heights of Mission Ridge.

By J. Augustine Signaigo.


When the foes, in conflict heated,
  Battled over road and bridge,
While Bragg sullenly retreated
  From the heights of Mission Ridge--
There, amid the pines and wildwood,
  Two opposing colonels fell,
Who had schoolmates been in childhood,
  And had loved each other well.

There, amid the roar and rattle,
  Facing Havoc's fiery breath,
Met the wounded two in battle,
  In the agonies of death.
But they saw each other reeling
  On the dead and dying men,
And the old time, full of feeling,
  Came upon them once again.

