On the very morning after that, the farmer came in with a wild raised
look. "Gentlemen," said he, "get your hats--haste ye--an' let us gang an'
tak a lang wauk, for my mother an' the lasses are on a-scrubbing a whole
floorfu' o' bottles; an' as I cam by, I heard her speaking about getting
the ale bottled the day."

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *


CREATING WANTS.

_An old, but a true Story._


I was bred a linen-draper, and went into business with better than
a thousand pounds. I married the daughter of a country tradesman, who
had received a boarding-school education. When I married I had been in
business five years, and was in the way of soon accumulating a fortune.
I was never out of my shop before it was shut up, and was remarked by my
friends as being a steady young man, with a turn for business.

I used to dine in the parlour, where I could have an eye upon the shop;
but my new acquaintances told me this was _extremely ungenteel_; that if I
had no confidence in my men I should get others; that a thief would be a
thief, watch him how I would, and that I was now too forward in the world
to be a slave to the shop.

From being constantly in my shop from seven in the morning till eight in
the evening, I lay in bed till nine, and took a comfortable breakfast
before I made my appearance below. Things, however, went on very well--I
bowed to my best customers, and attended closely to my business while I
was in it, trade went on briskly, and the only effect of this acquaintance
was the necessity of letting our friends see that we were getting above
the world, by selling some of our old-fashioned furniture, and replacing
it with that which was more _genteel_, and introducing wine at dinner when
we had company.

As our business increased, our friends told us it would be _extremely
genteel_ to take a lodging in summer just at the outskirts of the city,
where we might retire in the evening when shop was shut, and return to it
next morning after breakfast; for as we lived in a close part of the town,
fresh air was necessary to our health; and though, before I had this airy
lodging, I breathed very well in town, yet indulging in the fresh air, I
was soon sensible of all the stench and closeness of the metropolis; and I
must own I began to relish a glass of wine after dinner as well when alone
as when in company: I did not find myself the worse in circumstances for
this lodging; but I did not find I grew richer, and we had no money to lay
by.

We soon found out that a lodging so near town was smothered with dust, and
smelt too much of London air, therefore I took a small house we had seen
about five miles from town, near an acquaintance we had made, and thought
it imprudent to sleep from home every night, and that it would be better
for my business to be in town all the week, and go to this house on
Saturday, and continue there until Monday; but one excuse or other often
found me there on Tuesday. Coach-hire backward and forwards, and carriage
of parcels, generally cost us seven or eight shillings a week; and as a
one-horse chaise would be attended with very little more expense, and
removing to a further distance, seeing the expense would be saved by not
having our house full of company on Sunday, which was always the case,
being so near town; besides the exercise would be beneficial, for I was
growing corpulent with good living and idleness. Accordingly we removed
to the distance of fifteen miles from town, into a better house, because
there was a large garden adjoining it, and a field for the horse. It
afforded abundance of fruit, and fruit was good for scorbutic and
plethoric habits, our table would be furnished at less expense, and
fifteen miles was but an hour's ride more than seven miles.

All this was plausible, and I soon found myself under the necessity of
keeping a gardener; so that every cabbage that I before put on my table
for one _penny_ cost me one _shilling_, and I bought my dessert at the
dearest hand; but I was in it--I found myself happy--in a profusion of
fruit, and a blight was little less than death to me.

This new acquired want, now introduced all the expensive modes of having
fruit in spite of either blasts or blights. I built myself a small hot
house, and it was only the addition of a chaldron or two of coals; the
gardener was the same, and we had the pride of putting on our table a
pine-apple occasionally, when our acquaintance were contented with the
exhibition of a melon.

From this expense we soon got into a fresh one. As we often out-staid
Monday in the country, it was thought prudent that I should go to town on
Monday by myself, and return in the evening; this being too much for one
horse, a second-hand chariot might be purchased for a little more than
what the one-horse chaise would sell for; the field was large enough for
two horses; going to town in summer in an open carriage was choking
ourselves with dust, burning our faces, and the number of carriages on the
road made driving dangerous; besides, having now a genteel acquaintance in
the neighbourhood, there was no paying a visit in a one-horse chaise.
Another horse would be but very little addition in expense; we had a good
coach-house, and the gardener would drive. All this seemed true. I fell
into the scheme; but soon found that the wheels were so often going that
the gardener could not act in both capacities; whilst he was driving the
chariot, the hot-house was neglected; the consequence was, that I hired
a coachman. The chariot brought on the necessity of a footman--a better
acquaintance--wax candles--Sherry--Madeira--French Wines, &c. In short,
I grew so fond of these indulgencies that they became WANTS, and I was
unhappy when in town and out of the reach of them.

All this would have done very well if I had not had a business to mind;
but the misfortune was, that it took me off from trade--unsettled my
thoughts; my shopmen were too much left to themselves, they were negligent
of my business, and plundered me of my property. I drew too often upon the
till--made no reserve for the wholesale dealers and manufacturers--could
not answer their demands upon me--and became--_Bankrupt_.

Reduced now to live upon a chop and a draught of porter, I feel my
_wants_ more than ever; my wife's genteel notions having upset her, she
has lost her spirits. We do little but upbraid each other, and I am
become despicable in my own opinion, and ridiculous in that of others.
I once was happy, but now am miserable.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
SHAKSPEARE

       *       *       *       *       *


GUDE NEWS.

_Copied from an inscription over the fireplace of a public-house in
Edinburgh, the frequent resort of Burns._


Willie Christie tells them wha dinna ken, that he has a public house,
first door down Libbertown Wynd, in the Lawn Market, whaur he keeps the
best o' stuff; gude nappy Yill frae the best o' Bruars in big bottels an'
wee anes, an' Porter frae Lunnon o' a' sorts; Whuske as gude as in the
Toun, an o' a' strength, an' for cheapness ekwall to ony that's gaun.
Jinger Beer in wee bottells at Tippence, an' Sma' Beer for three bawbees
the twa bottels out of the house, an' a penny the bottel in.

N.B. Toddy cheap an' unco' gude if 'tis his ain mackin.

S.H.

       *       *       *       *       *


EPIGRAM.


  Whilst Mary kissed her infant care,
  "You like my lip," she cried, "my dear."
  The smiling child, though half afraid,
  Thus to her beauteous mother said:
  "With me, mamma, oh, do not quarrel,
  I thought your lip had been my coral."

E.A.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

