At this time of day I need hardly allude to the reputation the celebrated
Robert Greene obtained in England, both as a dramatist and a pamphleteer;
and although we have no distinct evidence on the point, we need hardly
doubt that some of his plays had been represented with applause in Holland.
_The Four Sons of Aymon_, which Heywood tells us was acted with such
strange effect at Amsterdam, must have been a piece of precisely the same
kind as Greene's _Orlando Furioso_, which we know was extraordinarily
popular in this kingdom, and may have been equally so abroad. We may thus
suppose that Greene's fame had spread to the Netherlands, and that anything
written by him would be well received by Batavian readers.

His _Quip for an Upstart Courtier, or, a Quaint Dispute between
Velvet-breeches and Cloth-breeches_, was published in London in 1592, and
went through two, if not three, impressions in its first year. It was often
reprinted, and editions in 1606, 1615, 1620, 1625, and 1635, have come down
to us, besides others that, no doubt, have entirely disappeared. That the
fame of this production extended to Holland, I have the proof before me: it
is a copy of the tract in Dutch, with the following imprint--"_Tot Leyden.
By Thomas Basson_. M.D.CI." A friend of mine writes me from Rotterdam, that
he has a copy, without date, but printed about twenty or five-and-twenty
years after mine of 1601, which shows how long the popularity of the tract
was maintained; and I have little doubt that mine is not by any means the
earliest Dutch impression, if only because the wood-cut of the Courtier and
the Countryman (copied with the greatest precision from the London
impression of 1592) is much worn and blurred. The title-page runs as
follows, and the name of Robert Greene is rendered obvious upon it for the
sake of its attraction:--

    "Een Seer vermakelick Proces tusschen Fluweele-Broeck ende
    Laken-Broeck. Waer in verhaldt werdt het misbruyck van de meeste deel
    der Menschen. Gheshreven int Engelsch door Robert Greene, ende nu int
    Neder-landtsch overgheset. Wederom oversien."

At the back of this title is printed a short address from the translator to
the _Edele ende welghesinde Leser_, which states little more than that the
original had been received from England, and concludes with the subsequent
quatrain:--

 "Ghemerckt dit Dal vol van ydelheyt
  Soo lachet vrij als Democritus dede:
  Doch zy gheraeckt met vvat Barmherticheyt:
  Als Heraclyt, bevveen ons qualen mede."

The spelling and punctuation are the same as in the original, and the body
of the tract follows immediately:

    "Staende eens smorghens op van eene onrustige nacht rust, ende vindende
    mijn ghemoet noch wat onstelt, gingh ick wandelen nae de vermacklyche
    velden, om mijn Gheest wat te vermacken, dan wesende noch in een
    Melancholijcke humeur, seer eensaem sonder eenighe gheselschap, worde
    ick seer slaperich: alsoo dat ick droomde. Dat iek een Dal sach wel
    verceirt, &c."

As few of your readers will have the means of referring to the original
English, I quote Greene's opening words from an edition of 1592:--

    "It was just at that time when the Cuckoulds quirister began to bewray
    Aprill, Gentlemen, with his never-changed notes, that I, damped with a
    melancholy humor, went into the fields to cheere up my wits with the
    fresh aire: where solitarie seeking to solace my selfe, I fell in a
    dreame, and in that drowsie slumber I wandered into a vale, &c."

The Dutch version fills thirty-two closely printed pages, and ends with the
succeeding literal translation of Greene's last sentence:--

    "Tot dese Sententie (aldus by de Ridder ghepronuncieert) alle de
    omstaende Stemde daer toe, ende klapten in haere handen, ende maeckte
    een groot geluyde, waer door eck waeker worde, ende schoot uyt mynen
    Droom, soo stout ick op, ende met een vrolijck ghemoet, gingh ick
    schryven, al her gene, dat ghy hier ghehoort hebt."

The above is one of the few books I purchased when I was in Holland some
thirty years ago; and as I have quoted enough for the purpose of {104}
identification, I may conclude with asking some of your Dutch
correspondents, whether the tract, in this or in any other edition, is of
considerable rarity with them? In England I never saw a copy of it but that
in my possession. I may add that every paragraph is separately numbered
from 1 to 110, as if the production were one of importance to which more
particular reference might be made than even by the pagination.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK ROOD OF SCOTLAND.

(Vol. ii., pp. 308. 409.)

I am not satisfied with what W. S. G. has written on this subject; and as I
feel interested in it, perhaps I cannot bring out my doubts better than in
the following Queries.

1. Instead of this famous cross being destined by St. Margaret for
Dunfermline, was it not transmitted by her as an heir-loom to her sons?
_Fordun_, lib. v. cap. lv. "_Quasi munus hæreditarium transmisit ad
filios._" Hailes (_Annals_, sub anno 1093) distinguishes the cross which
Margaret gifted to Dunfermline from the Black Rood of Scotland; and it is
found in the possession of her son David I., in his last illness. He died
at Carlisle, 24th May, 1153. (_Fordun_, ut supra.)

2. Is not W. S. G. mistaken when, in speaking of this cross being seized by
Edward I. in the Castle of Edinburgh in 1292, he says it is in a list of
muniments, &c., found "_in quadam cista in dormitorio S. Crucis._" instead
of in a list following, "_et in thesauria castri de Edinburgh inventa
fuerunt ornamenta subscripta?_" (Ayloffe's _Calendars_, p. 827.;
Robertson's _Index_, Introd. xiii.)

3. When W. S. G. says that this cross was not held in the same
superstitious reverence as the Black Stone of Scone, and that Miss
Strickland is mistaken when she says that it was seized by King Edward, and
restored at the peace of 1327, what does he make of the following
authorities?--

(1.) _Fordun_, lib. v, cap. xvii:

    "Illa sancta crux quam nigram vocant omni genti Scotorum non minus
    terribilem quam amabilem pro suæ reverentia sanctitatis."

(2.) _Letters to the Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Carlisle,
occassioned by some Passages in his late Book of the Scotch Library, &c._,
ascribed to the historian Rymer: London, 1702. From a "notable piece of
Church history," appended to the second Letter, it appears that the Black
Rood accompanied King Edward in his progresses, along with a famous English
cross--the Cross Nigth,--and that he received on these two crosses the
homage of several of the Scottish magnates. (The same thing, I have no
doubt, will appear from the _Foedera_ of the same historian, which I have
it not in my power to refer to.)

(3.) _Chronicon de Lanercost_, printed by the Maitland Club, Edinburgh,
1839, p. 283. Alluding to the pacification of 1327:

    "Reddidit etiam eis partem crucis Christi _quam vocant Scotti
    Blakerode_, et similiter unam instrumentum.... Ragman vocabatur.
    Lapidem tamen de Scone, in quo solent regis Scotiæ apud Scone in
    creatione sua collocari, Londonensis noluerunt a se demittere
    quoquomodo. Omnia autem hæc asportari fecerat de Scotia inclytus rex
    Edwardus filius Henrici, dum Scottos suæ subjiceret ditioni."

Fabian and Holinshed report the same thing.

4. Is not Fordun _quoting_ from Turgot and Aelred (whom he names Baldredus)
when he speaks of "illa sancta crux _quam nigram_ vocant?" And how does the
description of the Durham cross,--

    "Which rood and pictures were all three very richly wrought in silver,
    and were all smoked black over, being large pictures of a yard or five
    quarters long," &c. &c.,--

agree with the description of the Black Rood of St. Margaret which, as Lord
Hailes says, "was of _gold_, about the length of _a palm_; the figure of
ebony, studded and inlaid with gold. A piece of the true cross was enclosed
in it"?

5. As to the cross "miraculously received by David I., and in honour of
which he founded Holyrood Abbey in 1128," and which some antiquaries (see
_A Brief Account of Durham Cathedral_; Newcastle, 1833, p. 46.) gravely
assert was to be seen "in the south aisle of _the choir_ of Durham
Cathedral at its eastern termination, in front of a wooden screen richly
gilt and decorated with stars and other ornaments," are not all agreed that
the story is a mere monkish legend, invented long after Holyrood was
founded (although, perhaps, not so recent as Lord Hailes supposed)? and is
it not, therefore, absurd to speak of such a cross being taken at the
battle of Durham, or to identify it with the Black Rood of Scotland?

6. The quotation of W. S. G. from the _MS. Dunelm_ is curious; but is there
any contemporary authority for the Black Rood having been taken with King
David at the battle of Durham? I can find none.

7. Is it not, however, probable that King David lost _two_ crosses at
Durham, one a military cross, carried with his army, and taken from the
Abbey of Holyrood; and the other the famous Black Rood found on his person,
and made an offering to the shrine of St. Cuthbert? This would reconcile
some apparent discrepancies.

8. I find it noticed by Richardson in his _Table Book_ (Newcastle, 1846,
vol. i. p. 123.), that "there is a letter in the British Museum (Faustina,
A 6. 47.) from the prior of Durham to the Bishop (then absent), giving an
account of the battle of Neville's cross." Has this letter been printed,
and where? If not so, will any of your correspondents have the {105}
kindness to examine it, and say if it gives any information as to a cross
or crosses captured with the King of Scots?

J. D. N. N.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_The "Tanthony."_--When the porteress at the principal entrance to
Kimbolton Park opens the gates for the admission of a visitor, she rings a
bell to give warning to the servants at the castle of his approach. This
bell is popularly called the "Tanthony," in reference, I presume, to some
legend of Saint Anthony. Will one of your readers be good enough to
enlighten me?

ARUN.

"_Beauty Retire._"--Will the noble editor of Pepys's _Diary_ permit me to
ask him whether he has seen, in the Pepysian library, or elsewhere, a copy,
either in print or MS., of Pepys's song, "Beauty Retire," words and music;
or is it to be found in any miscellaneous collection of songs?

I. H. M.

_The Soul's Dark Cottage._--Being called on to reply to matters as plain as
those to which I replied last week, I am less reluctant to acknowledge my
own ignorance or obliviousness, respecting a couplet of which, I doubt not,
hundreds of your readers know the original _habitat_, but which cannot be
recalled to my own memory, nor to that of several friends to whom I have
referred. The couplet is--

 "The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed,
  Lets in new light through chinks that time hath made."

EFFARESS.

London, Jan. 4, 1851.

"_Small by degrees and beautifully less._"--This is a very common
quotation, but, although I have made frequent inquiries, I have never yet
been able to find out the author of it. Perhaps some of your readers can
inform me.

W. H. B.

_Musical Plagiarism._--I think I remember to have heard, two or three years
ago, of an action for damages brought against an eminent composer, on
account of plagiarism in a musical composition; and that the defendant's
argument was founded on the fact, that there exist very few really
"original compositions," if originality excludes every form of plagiarism.
And he adduced as examples the "See the conquering hero," of Handel; and
the "Zitti Zitti," of Rossini. Can any of your readers refer me to the
minutes of this trial; and tell me if any book has been published in
criticism of the originality of composers?

R. M.

_Simon Bache._--In the parish church of Knebworth, Herts, is the brass of a
priest, with the following inscription:--

    "Hic jacet Dominus Simo Bache, Clericus, quondam _Thesaurarius
    Hospitii_ illustrissimi Principis Domini Henrici Quinti Regis Angliæ,
    ac Canonic. Ecclesiæ Cathedralis Sancti Paulli, London; qui obiit xix.
    die Maii. Anno Dom. nostr. 1414."

Can any of your readers inform me what this office of _Thesaurarius
Hospitii_ was; also, who Simon Bache was that held it; and how it happens
that he is buried at Knebworth?

A. W. H.

_Sir Walter Raleigh._--In speaking of the difficulty which exists in
obtaining a perfect knowledge of any event, reference is often made to Sir
Walter Raleigh having witnessed an occurrence, while confined in the Tower,
and that two witnesses gave such a different account from each other as
well as from himself, that he threw his MS. history into the fire. In what
contemporary work is this recorded?

A similar discrepancy in evidence is mentioned with reference to the
celebrated tourney at Tiani, in 1502, in Prescott's _Ferdinand and
Isabella_, vol. iii. p. 45.

H. J.

_Harrison's Chronology._--William Harrison, a native of London, chaplain to
Sir William Brooke, Baron Cobham, Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports, composed
a _Description of Britain and of England_; and likewise translated Hector
Boethius's _Description of Scotland_, from the Scottish version of John
Bellenden. Both these pieces are printed in Holinshed's _Chronicles_, 2
vols. fol. 1587. In the prefaces Harrison speaks of a work on _Chronology_,
"which I have yet in hand." Has that work ever been printed? I discovered
the manuscript of it last year, in the Diocesan Library of Derry, in
Ireland; but did not ascertain _who_ was its author (though it bears the
name of Harrison), until a few days ago.

H. COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland, Dec. 21. 1850.

_Aristophanes on the Modern Stage._--Can any of your valuable
correspondents inform me whether any of the plays of Aristophanes have been
produced upon the stage in a modern version; and if so, when, and by whom?

I am inclined to think that some at least of the comedies in the hands of a
skilful author might be made entertaining and popular.

The _Acharnians_ and _Peace_, or perhaps even the _Birds_, might form the
groundwork of an amusing piece. Should you be able to spare a corner in
your valuable periodical for this Query, you would greatly oblige

C. J. R. (2.)

Burton Crescent.

_Drachmarus._--Can any of your readers kindly inform me, under what name
"Drachmarus," one of the Schoolmen, is commonly known?

J. SANSOM.

_Strutt's Queen Hoo Hall._--Some years back I purchased of a son of the
late Joseph Strutt, a copy of _Queen Hoo Hall_, containing manuscript {106}
memoranda by that son relating to his father and to Walter Scott. Amongst
other matters it states, that the original manuscript of that romance was
submitted to Mr. Scott before it was published, and that he retained it a
long time before he published his _Waverley Novels_. Mr. Strutt, jun.,
accuses him of taking hints and facts from his parent's work. He also
stated that the story of the Illuminator in _Queen Hoo Hall_ is mainly an
account of the life of his father. The three volumes I gave to my friend
and patron, Mr. John Broadly, whose very fine and choice library was sold
by auction after his death, with the copy of the work referred to. I am
desirous of ascertaining in whose possession these volumes are? I have a
beautiful miniature portrait of Joseph Strutt.

J. BRITTON.

17. Burton Street, Jan. 21. 1851.

_Cardinal's Monument_.--Passing into the church of St. Saviour, Southwark,
yesterday by the centre door on the south, I observed on a pillar to the
right, a sculpture of a cardinal's hat with the usual cord and tassels
properly coloured, beneath which was a coat of arms, quartering alternately
three lions and three fleur-de-lis. There is no name or date upon it. It
would be interesting to know to whom it refers.

J. D. A.

_Names Bacon and Fagan_.--The very curious and interesting information
which has come to light in the replies to my Query about the origin of the
patronymic BACON, emboldens me to put another question upon the subject.

I have long suspected, but have been unable to prove, that the names Bacon
and Fagan were originally one and the same. Bacon, it appears, is a Saxon
word, meaning "of the beech tree." Fagan, I presume, is as undoubtedly from
the Latin "de fago," "of the beech tree."

The approximation of sound in these names is sufficiently evident. That the
letters C and G have been commonly convertible between the Latin and Saxon
is without doubt. Query: Have B and F been at all used convertibly? Or can
any of your readers, by any other means, strengthen the probability, or
prove the truth, of my conjecture?

NOCAB.

_Blunder_.--What is the origin of this word? In Woolston's _First Discourse
on Miracles_ (Lond. 1729), at p 28., I find this passage:--

    "In another place he intimates what are meant by oxen and sheep, viz.,
    the literal sense of the Scriptures. And if the literal sense be
    irrational and nonsensical, the metaphor we must allow to be proper,
    inasmuch as nowadays dull and foolish and absurd stuff we call _Bulls_,
    _Fatlings_, and _Blunders_."

This would seem to imply that in Woolston's days _blunder_ was the name of
some animal; but in no dictionary have I been able to find such a
signification attributed to it. The Germans use the words _bock_ and
_pudel_ in the same sense as our word _blunder_.

C. W. G.

_Prince of Wales' Feathers._--The establishment of "DE NAVORSCHER" is a
matter of great importance to all students of our early history, and the
liberal mention of its projectors, to bring under the notice of their
countrymen all Queries likely to be answered by them, is one calculated to
clear up many obscure points in our early history. Sir H. Nicolas concludes
his valuable papers on the Badge and Mottoes of the Prince of Wales
(_Archæologia_, vol. xxxi. p. 372.) by expressing his belief that both the
former, namely, _the Feathers_, and the mottoes, "_Ich Dien_" and
"_Houmout_," were derived from the House of Hainault, possibly from the
Comté of Ostrevant, which formed the appanage of the eldest sons of the
Counts of that province. Perhaps I may be allowed, through your columns, to
invite the attention of the correspondents of "DE NAVORSCHER" to this
point.

EFFESSA.

_Portrait of Ben Jonson._--Ritson, the well-known antiquary, possessed an
original painting of Ben Jonson. It was afterwards purchased by W.
Fillingham, Esq., of the Inner Temple, a gentleman well known for his love
of the early drama; and whilst in his possession it was engraved by Ridley
in 8vo. What has become of the painting? Can any of your readers point out
its locality at the present time?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_Robert Burton_, otherwise _Democritus Junior_, the author of that glorious
book _The Anatomy of Melancholy_, is stated by Wood to have been born at
Lindley, in Leicestershire. Plot, however, in his _Natural History of
Staffordshire_, 1686, p.276., gives the place of his birth, Fald, in the
latter county; and, furthermore, says he was shown the very house of his
nativity. Can any of your correspondents throw any light upon this subject?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_Blowen, Origin of the Name._--You have fallen into a very general error in
spelling my name (pp. 71. 76.) with the terminal r, "Blower," instead of
"Blowen." Perhaps some one of your genealogical readers can inform me of
the origin and descendants of the family with this scarce name, thus spelt,
"Blowen." Are we a branch of the Blowers (as you appear to think we must
be), that useful family of alarmists, whose services in early times were so
necessary? or are we the descendants of the Flanders "Boleyns,"
Anglicanized "Bloyen?"

Query, Did Anna Boleyn, wife of Henry VIII., ever spell her name so? I need
not to be reminded that some lexicographers define "Blowen" to be a rude
woman. Query, origin of that appellation, so used?

We have been citizens and liverymen of London from Richard Blowen, who
married, at {107} the close of the seventeenth century, the sister of Dr.
Hugh Boulter (who became chaplain to George I., and afterwards Lord
Archbishop of Armagh).

BLOWEN.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

TOUCHSTONE'S DIAL.

(Vol. ii., p. 405.; vol. iii., p. 52.)

How is it that Mr. Knight, who so well and so judiciously exposes the
absurdness of attempting to measure out a poet's imaginings by
rule-and-compass probability, should himself endeavour to embody and
identify Touchstone's dial--an ideal image--a mere peg on which to hang the
fool's sapient moralizing.

Surely, whether it was a real moving animated pocket watch, that was
present to the poet's mind, or a thumb ring dial, is an inquiry quite as
bootless as the geographical existence of a sea-coast in Bohemia, or of
lions and serpents in the forest of Ardennes.

When Thaliard engages to take away the life of Pericles if he can get him
within his "pistol's length," are we seriously to inquire whether the
weapon was an Italian dagger or an English firearm? or are we to debate
which of the interpretations would be the lesser anachronism?

But your correspondents (Vol. ii., p. 405. and vol. iii., p. 52.) approve
of, and confirm Mr. Knight's suggestion of a ring dial, as though it were
so self-evident as to admit of no denial. Nevertheless, neither he nor they
have shown any good reason for its adoption: even its superior antiquity
over the portable time-piece is mere surmise on their parts, unaccompanied
as yet by any direct proof. In point of fact, the sole argument advanced by
Mr. Knight why Touchstone's dial should be a ring dial is, that "_it was
not likely that the fool would have a pocket watch_." Well, but it might
belong to Celia, carried away with the "jewels and wealth" she speaks of,
and, on account of the unwieldy size of watches in those days, intrusted to
the porterage of the able-bodied fool.

When Touchstone said, so very wisely, "_It is ten o'clock_," he used a
phrase which, according to Orlando in the same play, could only properly
apply to a mechanical time-piece. Rosalind asks Orlando, "I pray you what
is it _a clock?_" to which he replies, "You should ask me what time _o'
day_; there's no clock in the forest." Again, when Jacques declares that he
did laugh "an hour by his dial," do we not immediately recall Falstaff's
similar phrase, "an hour by Shrewsbury clock?"

If it shall be said that the word "dial" is more used in reference to a
natural than to a mechanical indicator of time, I should point, in reply,
to Hotspur's allusion:

 "Tho' life did ride upon a dial's point
  Still ending with the arrival of an hour"

The "dial's point," so referred to, must be _in motion_, and is therefore
the hand or _pointer_ of a mechanical clock.

A further confirmation that the Shakspearian "dial" was a piece of
mechanism may be seen in Lafeu's reply to Bertram, when he exclaims,

    "Then my dial goes not true,"

using it as a metaphor to imply that his judgment must have been deceived.

