    United States, British Isles, Roman Empire, Western Europe,
    North America, South America, Asia.

    (POSTAGE ON SINGLE MAPS, 5 CENTS.)

       *       *       *       *       *

"I would advise =Sunday-school teachers= to use, in connection with the
lessons of 1897, =Klemm's Relief Map of the Roman Empire=. Every scholar
who can draw should have a copy of it. Being blank, it can be beautifully
colored: waters, blue; mountains, brown; valleys, green; deserts, yellow;
cities marked with pin-holes; and the journeys of Paul can be traced upon
it."--MRS. WILBUR F. CRAFTS, _President International Union of
Primary Sabbath-School Teachers of the United States_.

       *       *       *       *       *

=DESCRIPTION OF THE MAPS.=

These maps are made in two forms, both with beautifully executed relief
(embossed)--the cheaper ones of plain stiff paper similar to drawing paper
(these are to be substituted for and used as outline map blanks), the
others covered with a durable waterproof surface, that can be quickly
cleaned with a damp sponge, adapted to receive a succession of markings
and cleansings. Oceans, lakes, and rivers, as well as land, appear in the
same color, white, so as to facilitate the use of the map as a
=_geographical slate_=.

       *       *       *       *       *

    =WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON
    _3 & 5 W. 18th St. ··· New York City_=


        =MAPS, CHARTS, &c.=
          BARGAIN LIST.

    =UNITED STATES=--
    5 large Standard Government Maps, (82x66 in.) mounted on
    cloth and common rollers                                    $1.50 each.

    5 "Bird's Eye View Maps," (72x65 in.) A large _relief map_
    of the United States. Spring rollers                        10.00   "
                          Common rollers                         7.50   "

    7 Government Relief Maps, printed in browns, with actual
    heights of land given in accurate figures. An indispensable
    map for school work, (size 20x32 in.) mounted on linen,
    (unmounted, 75 cents)                                        1.35   "


    =MISCELLANEOUS MAPS=--
    10 Guyot's Physical Maps, _small_, assorted                   .75   "
    Guyot's Large Physical Map, Western Europe                   3.00
    18 Monteith's Wall Maps, assorted                            1.25   "


    =OUTLINE MAPS=--25 sets Outline Maps, (size 24x36 in.) containing
    two Hemispheres, North and South America, Europe,
    Asia, Africa, Australasia, United States, &c. Subscription
    price, $25.00                                                5.00   "


    =ASTRONOMICAL CHARTS=--43 Astronomical Charts, giving
    Phases of the Moon, Planets, &c. (Size 24x36 in.)            1.00   "


    =ALPHABET COMMON OBJECTS=--15 Alphabet of Common
    Objects, imported, mounted on strong cloth                   1.10   "


    =LONGITUDE CHARTS=--50 Callahan's Longitude and Time
    Charts, mounted on cloth                                      .40   "


    =GEOMETRICAL BLOCKS=--5 sets, slightly damaged, containing
    material for demonstration of all Geometrical exercises.
    Put up in strong box                                         3.00   "


    =HISTORICAL CHARTS=--5 King's Historical Portfolio, published
    at $15.00, now sold by subscription for $25.00               3.00   "


    =METRIC CHARTS=--15 Mounted Metric Charts, contain
    Metric System complete                                        .50   "

       *       *       *       *       *


               =EXTRA DISCOUNTS:=

Bills of $10.00 or over, 10 per cent. $20.00 or over, _25 per cent_.

       *       *       *       *       *

              ...SCHOOL BOOKS...

I offer a great many bargains, in Standard School Books, similar to the
following:

=Brooks' Elementary Arithmetic=, (published price, 41 cents)  =10 cts.=

=Brooks' New Written Arithmetic=, (published price, 80 cents) =25 cts.=

       *       *       *       *       *

William Beverley Harison, 3 and 5 West 18th St., N.Y. City.

      *       *       *       *       *

    AS A
    =SPECIAL INDUCEMENT=

    for our subscribers to interest others in "The Great Round
    World," we will give to each subscriber who sends us $2.50 to
    pay for a year's subscription to a new name, a copy of

    =Rand, McNally & Co.=
      =1897 Atlas of the World.=

    =160 pages of colored maps from new plates, size 11 1/2 x 14
    inches, printed on special paper with marginal index, and well
    worth its regular price - - - - $2.50.=

Every one has some sort of an atlas, doubtless, but an old atlas is no
better than an old directory; countries do not move away, as do people,
but they do change and our knowledge of them increases, and this atlas,
made in 1897 from =new= plates, is perfect and up to date and covers every
point on

    =The Great Round World.=

Those not subscribers should secure the subscription of a friend and remit
$5 to cover it and their own. A copy of the atlas will be sent to either
address.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT ROUND WORLD,
_3 and 5 West 18th Street, · · · · · · · ·New York City._

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNOUNCEMENT


_IN THIS NUMBER OF_ THE GREAT ROUND WORLD _IS BEGUN THE STORY OF "THE
GREAT ROUND WORLD, AND THE PEOPLE WHO LIVED ON IT," BY MME. ZÉNÄIDE A.
RAGOZIN, AUTHOR OF THE STORY OF "CHALDEA," "ASSYRIA," "MEDIA AND
BABYLON," "VEDIC INDIA," ETC., ETC._

_FROM TIME TO TIME_ THE GREAT ROUND WORLD _HAS PUBLISHED BRIEF
HISTORICAL SUPPLEMENTS EXPLANATORY OF THE NEWS; SO MANY QUESTIONS HAVE
ARISEN THAT REQUIRE A KNOWLEDGE OF THE ANCIENT PEOPLES OR BEGINNINGS OF
HISTORY, THAT IT HAS BEEN DECIDED TO FURNISH THIS SERIES OF ARTICLES. WE
HAVE ARRANGED WITH MME. RAGOZIN, TO WRITE THESE FOR_ THE GREAT ROUND
WORLD. _SHE IS THE ACKNOWLEDGED AUTHORITY AND MOST BRILLIANT WRITER OF
THIS CLASS OF HISTORY. MME. RAGOZIN NEEDS NO INTRODUCTION TO THE PEOPLE
OF THIS COUNTRY; HER WORK HAS MADE HER WORLD-FAMOUS, AND HER ABILITY AS
A TEACHER IS UNIVERSALLY RECOGNIZED. WE FEEL THAT THIS SERIES SHOULD
PROVE INVALUABLE TO OUR READERS._


[Illustration: ISLAND OF JUAN FERNANDEZ.]

[Illustration: THE GREAT ROUND
WORLD
AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT.]

    VOL. 1   JULY 1, 1897.   NO. 34

       *       *       *       *       *

The troubles between Turkey and Greece do not show any signs of reaching
a peaceful settlement. In fact, from the news this week, the Powers seem
to be growing angrier as the days go by.

England has boldly declared that she will never allow Thessaly to be
placed under Turkish rule again.

It is said that the British Ambassador, Sir Philip Currie, told this to
Tewfik Pasha, the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs, in the presence
of Monsieur Nelidoff, the Russian Ambassador.

Sir Philip Currie is reported to have stated the decision of his
Government in such very determined words, that both the Turkish and
Russian Ministers were speechless with surprise. Tewfik Pasha listened
in silence, while the Englishman announced that unless Turkey gave back
Thessaly to Greece, Great Britain would withdraw from the concert of the
Powers. The Turkish Minister could not conceal his surprise and dismay,
but left the room without making any reply, the Russian Minister
following him.

A few days later the Turkish Cabinet met in council, and after a very
long discussion they decided that under the circumstances it was
impossible for Turkey to leave Thessaly, and that, as Turkey is in
possession of Thessaly, and able to wait patiently while the terms of
peace are being arranged, there is no need to take any immediate steps
in the matter.

The council decided to continue preparations for war, so that, if terms
of peace cannot be arranged, Turkey will be ready for any emergency.

The next time Tewfik Pasha met the Ambassadors after his conversation
with Sir Philip Currie, he was able to say that his Government would not
give up Thessaly.

The Powers made answer that Thessaly must be given up, and that the
Turks must retire to their own side of the frontier immediately.

Finding that the Powers remained firm, the Sultan ventured on an act so
bold and astonishing, that Europe has not yet recovered from it.

He appealed to the Czar of Russia and the Emperor of Germany, asking
them to help him in his efforts to make Thessaly a part of the Ottoman
Empire.

The other ambassadors were most indignant when they learned of the
Sultan's action, and one and all refused to consider any further the
treaty of peace, until the question of the Turks leaving Thessaly had
been settled.

After the news of Turkey's appeal reached them, a meeting, which lasted
four hours, was held by the diplomats, but the result of this conference
was not made public.

Mr. Gladstone has written a very bitter letter against Turkey, in which
he again refers to the Sultan as the Grand Assassin.

He is said to have stated in his letter that he should not be surprised
if the Sultan had the audacity to send representatives to the Queen's
Jubilee; and to have added that he hoped the British Government would
prevent any such thing, as the Turkish envoys might meet with a
reception that would not be agreeable to them.

This cannot be true, for so great a man as Gladstone would not stoop to
rousing his countrymen to riotous and discourteous acts. Should the
Sultan send over envoys to honor the Queen, they will be the nation's
guests, and as such should be treated with respect.

Mr. Gladstone is such a fine old man, that we are sure that this report
will be proved false.

      *       *       *       *       *

There is a report that the Sultan has broken the armistice, by sending
fresh troops into Thessaly and continuing to fortify the towns of Volo
and Prevesa.

Word has also reached us that the Governor of Volo has issued a
proclamation, ordering the people who ran away from the town when the
Turks entered it to return. Unless these people go back within two
weeks, all the property they left behind them will be seized and
confiscated by the Turks.

The unfortunate inhabitants of Thessaly seem to be having a very hard
time of it. It is said that the province is full of brigands, and that
many people who fled to the mountains to avoid the Turks have been
seized by these vagabonds and held for ransom.

For years Greece was a very unsafe place for travellers on account of
robbers.

In the days before railways, when people had to travel by coach,
brigands infested most of the mountains and forests in Europe.

It was their habit to keep a regular lookout for travellers, and, as
soon as they approached, rush out upon them and rob them. If any
important person happened to be in the party, the brigands would make
him captive and hold him until his friends paid a large sum for his
freedom.

Brigandage has lingered longer in Greece than elsewhere, because there
are fewer railroads in that country.

      *       *       *       *       *

There is little likelihood of decided action on Cuban affairs for the
present.

It is evident that President McKinley does not mean to do anything rash
in this matter.

He is reported to have said that he thinks the subject should be
considered with the greatest care, and that no hasty conclusions should
be arrived at.

There is a report that he intends to outline his Cuban policy, and then
entrust it to the new Minister to Spain. Much thought has been exercised
in choosing this official, the President having finally nominated Gen.
Stewart L. Woodford for the important mission. It is thought that
nothing will be done in regard to Cuba until after General Woodford
arrives in Madrid.

The President has received Mr. Calhoun's report, and from the statements
which this gentleman made on his return it would seem impossible any
longer to deny that actual warfare is being carried on in Cuba.

When Mr. Calhoun was questioned on the subject, he replied:

"War is going on in the island. True, no great battles are being
fought, no Gettysburgs or Chickamaugas, but there is war nevertheless."

He was asked if he thought the war would soon be over. He said he could
not form any idea about it; all he knew was that a very cruel war was
going on, and that both sides were doing their best to ruin the country.

Some people who profess to know say that any action taken by the United
States will be in the line of home rule for Cuba. The President
questioned Mr. Calhoun very closely as to the possibility of the Cubans
accepting home rule, and Mr. Calhoun replied that he thought the Cubans
generally would be in favor of such a measure.

Spain is thought to be willing to agree to some arrangement of this
character. The rebellion in Cuba is costing her between eight and ten
million dollars a month, and it is supposed that she will be willing to
get out of her difficulties if she can find a way.

The stumbling-block in the way of home rule is that there has been
created a debt of many million dollars as a result of the war. If Spain
does not make the payment of this enormous sum of money by Cuba the
condition of granting home rule, the matter may soon be arranged. Should
Spain insist on the payment of this money, Cuba will have to fight until
the end, for it is quite impossible for her to meet any such demand.

There are reports that General Weyler will be recalled to Spain. Some
say that he has already been ordered home; others that he has sent in
his resignation, but that the Queen Regent will not accept it until she
sees what the United States is going to do. If trouble should come with
this country she will probably keep Weyler in Cuba.

There is now a very strong party in Madrid which demands the removal of
Weyler.

There was some excitement when the news reached this country that Gen.
Rius Rivera was to be shot. The news came from Havana, and roused a
storm of indignant protests against such a shameful practice as shooting
a prisoner of war.

The Spanish newspapers have been saying very unkind things about us
since the Senate passed the Morgan resolutions, but in spite of this it
would seem that Spain is really anxious to keep our good will. No sooner
did the report about General Rivera reach us, than Señor Dupuy de Lôme
made full inquiries into the matter, and sent word to his Government
that the reports were absolutely false, and that the authorities had no
intention of shooting General Rivera.

In regard to the Ruiz matter, it is said that our Government will claim
that Spain is responsible for the doctor's death, whether he died from
injuries received in the prison or not, because they kept him shut up,
without the privilege of communicating with anybody, ten days longer
than the law permits.

It is expected that our Government will claim $150,000 damages for Mrs.
Ruiz and her children, and will demand that Fondeviella, who was in
charge of the jail, shall be punished for keeping the unfortunate man in
this close confinement for three hundred and fifteen hours, instead of
the seventy-two hours named in their law.

The authorities in Madrid are beginning to think that too many Cubans
are claiming the protection of American citizenship, to save themselves
from punishment.

When Dr. Ruiz was arrested, he claimed American citizenship, and it was
on account of this claim that General Lee became interested in his case.

By referring to page 473 of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD, you will see that Dr.
Ruiz was born in Cuba, came to the United States to study, became
naturalized, and then went back again to Cuba, where he entered into
business as a dentist. His case was so complicated, that the authorities
in Cuba thought they had good ground for disbelieving him when he
claimed to be a citizen of the United States.

To avoid any such trouble in future, Spain has proposed to make a new
naturalization treaty with us. The terms of this treaty will cover just
such cases as that of Dr. Ruiz.

One of the articles provides that any Cuban, or other Spanish-born
subject, who becomes naturalized in this country, and then goes back to
live in Cuba or the land of his birth, will, after two years' residence
in the country in which he was born, be once more regarded as a Spanish
subject, and must waive his naturalization rights.

If, however, at the end of the two years, he declares his intention to
go back and live in his adopted country, he will be allowed to do so,
and his naturalization will hold good.

Our Government is in favor of accepting this treaty, because it will
save the consuls much trouble and avoid many squabbles between the two
governments.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Dauntless_ has been on trial for filibustering, and released, no
arms or suspicious cargo having been found in her.

It is to be feared that the _Dauntless_ did not deserve her good
fortune. If the reports be true, the day after her release from custody
she took on a large cargo of war material, and made off for Cuba with
thirty-five volunteers on board.

In her cargo she is said to have carried three hundred rounds of
ammunition for the famous dynamite-gun, so it is to be supposed that the
terrible weapon is once more in working order.

A large expedition landed in Santa Clara the other day.

The report says that the cargo was unloaded in the face of a force of
Spanish coast-guards, who had sighted the vessel and hurried to the
shore to capture the expedition. A gunboat was sent round to cut the
filibuster off by sea, while the coast-guard did the work on land. The
Cubans, however, beat off both their foes and landed the cargo safely.

News of a battle near Havana has been telegraphed to Key West, but the
press censor has forbidden the details to be published. For this reason
it is believed to have been a Cuban victory, with heavy losses on the
Spanish side.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is some very important news about Hawaii this week.

A treaty, whereby Hawaii is to be annexed to the United States, has been
prepared, approved by the President, signed by the representatives of
both governments, and sent to the Senate for consideration.

The way it all came about was this.

We have been telling you from week to week about the angry feeling that
has been growing between Hawaii and Japan.

Last week we told you how threatening the Japanese Minister had become,
and that he hinted that diplomatic relations between the two countries
would be severed.

The Hawaiian Government became very much alarmed at this, and the two
gentlemen who had been sent to the United States to try and bring about
the annexation were instructed to go once more to our Government and beg
that something be done before it was too late.

_Annexing_ means joining to. You know what an annex to a house is--that
it is a few extra rooms built beside the house, and joined permanently
to it. When one country annexes another it makes it part of itself. The
new lands are permanently joined to the old, and are regarded as a part
of the whole.

President McKinley has expressed himself as in favor of annexing Hawaii,
and has been considering the matter for some time. He did not wish that
anything should interfere with the Tariff Bill, and for this reason kept
Hawaiian matters in the background, along with Cuban affairs, until the
Tariff question should be settled.

The trouble with Japan has forced him to consider Hawaiian Annexation
before he intended to, and so the treaty has been drawn up.

He is more willing to give the matter his attention at the present time,
because he finds that Hawaiian affairs are really delaying the Tariff
Bill.

A great deal of our sugar is imported from the Hawaiian Islands, and
under a commercial treaty made between Hawaii and the United States this
sugar is brought into our country free of duty.

There is a clause in the treaty which says that the President can
terminate it whenever he wishes to, by giving due notice.

In considering the sugar tariff, it was necessary for the Senators to
decide whether Hawaiian sugar should still be admitted free of charge,
or should be subject to the same duties as other sugars.

The Senators could not come to any agreement until they knew whether the
President meant to end the treaty--abrogate it, as it is called.

Not wishing to delay the Tariff Bill, the President thought the wisest
thing to do would be to let the Senate know that he was in favor of
annexing Hawaii.

With Hawaii a part of this country, the sugar question would settle
itself, and the Tariff Bill could go on undisturbed.

Before the President allowed any word of his intentions to become known,
he called a Cabinet meeting and laid the treaty before his ministers.

The majority of the Cabinet approved of the draft of the treaty that was
read to them, and it is thought that the Senate will also look favorably
on the measure, and that the necessary two-thirds vote will be secured
without trouble.

The treaty provides that the United States shall become possessed of all
the public lands and buildings, ships, ports, etc., belonging to Hawaii,
and shall in return assume Hawaii's debts, which amount to $4,000,000.

This treaty does not provide any pension for the ex-queen,
Liliuokalani, nor any gift of money for the Princess Kiaulani.

The treaty proposed in 1893, which was rejected by Mr. Cleveland,
provided liberally for both. You can read all about it on page 734 of
THE GREAT ROUND WORLD.

Queen Liliuokalani is not at all disturbed by the talk of annexation.
She has been in Washington all the winter, trying to make friends of the
Senators, so that they will oppose the treaty when it is brought before
them.

It is said that she is perfectly serene and happy in the belief that she
has enough influence in the Senate to prevent the bill from being
passed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Committee of Inquiry into the Transvaal Raid has finished its work.

In the course of the inquiry certain cablegrams were mentioned, which
had been sent by Cecil Rhodes to some persons in England.

In courts of law you cannot quote from a book, letter, or telegram,
unless you produce the actual paper you quote from, and thus prove to
the satisfaction of the court that the book, letter, or telegram really
exists.

When reference was made to these telegrams, the Committee asked to see
them, but they were not forthcoming. Every one supposed that an order
would be issued for the production of these messages, but, strange to
say, no such order was given.

People began to be suspicious, and it was whispered that these messages
contained information that the Committee dared not make public.

At first, the worst that people suspected was that they would show that
Mr. Chamberlain, the Colonial Secretary, had known all about the
preparations for the Jameson Raid, and that he and Mr. Cecil Rhodes had
planned to seize the Transvaal, with its rich gold-fields, and annex it
to the English Colonies in South Africa.

Had this been the truth, it would have been bad enough. Mr. Chamberlain
was one of the Queen's Ministers, bound to obey the laws and uphold
them. That he should have been aware that an attempt was to be made to
steal the country of a friendly power, without making an effort to
prevent it, would have been disgraceful enough.

Unfortunately, it appears that the blame falls on a personage in much
higher position than Mr. Chamberlain.

It is said that no less a person than the Prince of Wales is named in
these cablegrams as one of the men who knew all about the preparations
for the Raid, and was perfectly willing that they should be carried out.
Several other men in high positions in England were also in the plot to
seize the Transvaal. (For the story of the plot, see THE GREAT ROUND
WORLD, pages 513 and 667.)

The cablegrams were at one time in the possession of Mr. Chamberlain,
having been given him by Mr. Cecil Rhodes, in the hope that the names of
the men interested in the plot would make him use his influence to
prevent any inquiry being made into the Raid.

London is shocked and indignant at these rumors, and insists that the
cablegrams shall be produced and the truth known about the Prince of
Wales' connection with the matter.

The Committee of Inquiry has, however, decided not to press the demand
for the messages, and so the whole affair will be hushed up as far as
possible.

Mr. Chamberlain was called before the Committee, and said, in regard to
the cablegrams, that he had personally not the slightest objection to
their being produced, but that they were unfortunately no longer in his
possession. As far as he knew they were now in the keeping of the lawyer
for the British South African Company.

Legal proceedings are being taken against this lawyer, to make him give
the papers up.

The Committee, after hearing Mr. Chamberlain's evidence, said that the
inquiry was at an end as far as they were concerned, but that they would
report the refusal to give up the missing cablegrams to the House of
Commons.

The chances are that this is the last that will ever be heard about the
inquiry into the Jameson Raid.

It has long been suspected that some people in very high position were
connected with this very disgraceful affair. One reason for the
supposition was that when Dr. Jameson was first put on trial for leading
the raid, it was whispered about that he would not be punished very
severely, as he had powerful friends in high quarters, who were bound to
protect him.

When he and his officers were sentenced to imprisonment in Holloway
jail, the rumors died out. They revived again as one man after another
was released from jail before his time was up. The various excuses
offered were so flimsy that the public began to think that it was true
that they had powerful friends protecting them.

All honest Englishmen are feeling shocked that those who ought to be so
far above the greed of gain have let their honor be trampled in the mire
for the sake of the Johannesburg gold-mines.

There is, however, one gleam of sunshine in the midst of the gloom. It
seems that Dr. Leyds, who was sent over from the Transvaal to arrange
this unhappy affair, has had several satisfactory interviews with Mr.
Chamberlain, and will take back to Oom Paul a proposal from England for
the settlement of the troubles.

It is said that the offer made by Mr. Chamberlain is one that will find
favor both in England and Africa, and that there is every prospect of
the matter being peacefully settled.

Oom Paul, despite the wrong done him by England, has ordered that the
day of the Queen's Jubilee shall be observed throughout the South
African Republic as a special holiday.

He is certainly a very noble, generous-spirited old man.

      *       *       *       *       *

We have a good deal to tell you about treaties this week.

The treaty between Great Britain and Venezuela, which was arranged by
the United States, has been agreed to by both governments, and now the
dispute over the boundary line between Venezuela and British Guiana will
be settled by arbitration instead of war.

You will find all about the treaty on pages 52, 196, and 306 of THE
GREAT ROUND WORLD.

You remember that copies of the treaty were sent by the British Minister
and the Minister from Venezuela to their respective governments for
approval.

Both countries were satisfied with the treaty, and on the 14th of June,
Sir Julian Pauncefote, representing England, and Señor José Andráde, for
Venezuela, met and exchanged the notes of approval from their
governments.

There will be five members of the Arbitration Committee--Baron Herschel
and Sir Richard Collins for England, and Chief-Justice Fuller and
Justice Brewer for Venezuela.

As in the case of the proposed Arbitration with England, the King of
Sweden may nominate the odd man on the Committee. The two sides are to
try and agree on a fifth person to act with them, and if they fail to
agree the King of Sweden is to have the right to name him.

The Arbitrators are to meet in Paris, and must render a decision within
three months after both sides have stated their case.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several weeks ago we told you about Ellis Island, and the way immigrants
were received and handled there.

You will be sorry to learn that the whole of the government buildings on
Ellis Island have been destroyed by fire.

No one knows how the accident happened, but just after midnight a
watchman noticed smoke coming out of one of the rooms, and gave the
alarm of fire.

There were more than a hundred immigrants on the island, as well as a
large force of people to care for them. In addition to these people,
there were some fifty patients in the hospital. In all, there were two
hundred and thirteen people in the buildings when the fire started, but
the discipline was so perfect, and the employees of the Island were so
well trained, that not a single person was injured.

The patients from the hospital were removed from the wards in quick
time, taken on boats belonging to the Island, and brought to the Battery
without delay. The rest of the people were put in the tugs and the
various kinds of river craft that hurried down the Bay the moment the
fire was discovered.

Some anxiety was felt lest the papers and records of the Immigration
Bureau had been destroyed in the fire, but it was found that most of
them were in safes and had escaped injury.

New buildings will be put up as soon as possible; the work on them will
be begun without delay. This time, however, they will be built of brick
or stone, and not of wood.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many of our friends have asked us whether Robinson's Crusoe's Island had
really been swallowed up by the sea, according to the report which was
given out, and which we mentioned on pages 243 and 290 of THE GREAT
ROUND WORLD.

To make absolutely sure of the matter, we wrote to Mr. James Dobbs,
United States Consul at Valparaiso, Chile.

He has sent us a very kind letter, which we copy for you here, and with
the letter a picture of one of the ports of the island (see
frontispiece).

You will be glad to know that the report was not true, and that
Crusoe's Island still rises out of the sea, just as it did in Crusoe's
day.

Here is Mr. Dobbs' letter:

                           CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
                                      VALPARAISO, CHILE, May 7, 1897.

     EDITOR "GREAT ROUND WORLD":

     Your letter of March 17th was received by last mail, and I take
     pleasure in replying that there is not the slightest foundation for
     the report that the Island of Juan Fernandez has been swallowed up
     by the sea. During the month of April President Errázuriz and his
     staff made a trip of inspection on one of the Chilean men-of-war to
     the island, and spent several days there. A passenger steamer also
     made regular trips back and forth from this city during the past
     summer (our winter), and the excursionists, upon returning, have
     invariably expressed their enjoyment of the trip. You may depend
     Robinson Crusoe's old home remains intact, and still inhabited by
     goats. I enclose you a copy of the English paper here, containing a
     cut of one of the little ports of the island, photographed by
     Spencer & Co., of this city. Thanking you for the two copies of THE
     GREAT ROUND WORLD, I am,

                                     Very truly yours,
                                             JAMES M. DOBBS,
                                             United States Consul.

       *       *       *       *       *

The latest news from Miles City tells us that the two hundred Indians
are still off the Reservation, and that those who remain under
Government control are unruly and hard to manage.

Settlers continue to bring their families into the city for protection.
The Indians are reported to be riding all over the country in small
parties, destroying everything in their line of march.

So far there has been no bloodshed, but the settlers fear that there
will be if they attempt to check the work of destruction.

The Sheriff has gone again to the Reservation with an order for the
arrest of White Bull. He will probably have some trouble before he lays
hands on the unruly Indian, but there is no doubt that the entire band
will be returned to the Reservation ere long.

Runaway Indians are always obliged to return to their home, as they can
find neither food nor shelter elsewhere, and are sure to suffer if they
do not go back. If they appear at the forts they are captured, and every
white settler knows that the Indians have no business off the government
Reservations, and endeavors to have them driven back where they belong.

The Indians are thus surrounded by enemies, and they can only hope for a
short period of freedom; then they must go back home, and take their
punishment for truancy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Word comes from Mexico that the President, General Diaz, has made a
treaty with a tribe of Indians called the Yaquis, who have defied the
government rule since the Spanish conquest in the sixteenth century.

These people have, for over two hundred years, refused to pay taxes or
obey any laws but their own. They have lived in their own mountainous
country, and successfully repelled attempts to dislodge them or make
them obey the Mexican laws.

It is said that our troubles with the Indians have been slight when
compared with those of the Mexicans with the Yaquis.

President Diaz, who is half an Indian himself, has at last found a means
of making peace with them.

He has taken a lesson from his experiences in dealing with the brigands,
who at one time infested Mexico.

At first he attempted to conquer these robbers by sending soldiers out
after them; but finding that this plan was a total failure, he adopted
another, which was the old principle of setting a thief to catch a
thief. He offered them pardons if they would enlist in a new body of
guards, which he created. The duties of the regiment were half military
and half police. The President uniformed them, gave them good pay, and
in a very short time found that, instead of numberless bands of
dangerous robbers, he had a fine corps of vigilant thief-catchers.

This experiment having turned out so well, Diaz decided to adopt a
similar plan with the Yaquis.

He offered to enrol them into a militia corps with uniforms and good
pay, and asked them to aid in carrying out the laws.

The Yaquis decided to accept this offer, as they are a race of warriors
who like soldiering, and so the treaty was made.

It is said that the Chief of the Yaquis rode to the conference followed
by eight hundred well-armed warriors. The treaty was made, and the
ceremonies were followed by a great feast, in which Mexicans and Yaquis
both took part.

