He blew at his "Cottage," and blew with a will,
For a year, seven months, and a fortnight until
(You'll hardly believe it) M'Clan, I declare,
Elicited something resembling an air.

It was wild--it was fitful--as wild as the breeze--
It wandered about into several keys;
It was jerky, spasmodic, and harsh, I'm aware,
But still it distinctly suggested an air.

The Sassenach screamed and the Sassenach danced,
He shrieked in his agony--bellowed and pranced;
And the maidens who gathered rejoiced at the scene,
Especially Ellen M'Jones Aberdeen.

"Hech gather, hech gather, hech gather around;
And fill a' yer lugs wi' the exquisite sound,
An air frae the bagpipes--beat that if ye can!
Hurrah for Clonglocketty Angus M'Clan!"

The fame of his piping spread over the land;
Respectable widows proposed for his hand,
And maidens came flocking to sit on the green--
Especially Ellen M'Jones Aberdeen.

One morning the fidgety Sassenach swore
He'd stand it no longer--he drew his claymore,
And (this was, I think, in extremely bad taste),
Divided Clonglocketty close to the waist.

Oh! loud were the wailings for Angus M'Clan--
Oh! deep was the grief for that excellent man--
The maids stood aghast at the horrible scene,
Especially Ellen M'Jones Aberdeen.

It sorrowed poor Pattison Corby Torbay
To find them "take on" in this serious way.
He pitied the poor little fluttering birds,
And solaced their souls with the following words:--

"Oh, maidens," said Pattison, touching his hat,
"Don't snivel, my dears, for a fellow like that;
Observe, I'm a very superior man,
A much better fellow than Angus M'Clan."

They smiled when he winked and addressed them as "dears,"
And they all of them vowed, as they dried up their tears,
A pleasanter gentleman never was seen--
Especially Ellen M'Jones Aberdeen.

[_W.S. Gilbert_


THE SYCOPHANTIC FOX AND THE GULLIBLE RAVEN


A raven sat upon a tree,
And not a word he spoke, for
His beak contained a bit of Brie,
Or, maybe, it was Roquefort:
  We'll make it any kind you please,
  At all events, it was a cheese.

Beneath the tree's umbrageous limb
A hungry fox sat smiling;
He saw the raven watching him,
And spoke in words beguiling.
  "_J'admire_," said he "_ton beau plumage_,"
  (The which was simply persiflage.)

Two things there are, no doubt you know,
To which a fox is used;
A rooster that is bound to crow,
A crow that's bound to roost,
  And whichsoever he espies
  He tells the most unblushing lies.

"Sweet fowl," he said, "I understand
You're more than merely natty,
I hear you sing to beat the band
And Adelina Patti.
  Pray render with your liquid tongue
  A bit from 'Götterdämmerung.'"

This subtle speech was aimed to please
The crow, and it succeeded:
He thought no bird in all the trees
Could sing as well as he did.
  In flattery completely doused
  He gave the "Jewel Song" from "Faust."

But gravitation's law, of course,
As Isaac Newton showed it,
Exerted on the cheese its force.
And elsewhere soon bestowed it,
  In fact, there is no need to tell
  What happened when to earth it fell.

I wish to add that when the bird
Took in the situation
He said one brief, emphatic word,
Unfit for publication.
  The fox was greatly startled, but
  He only sighed and answered "Tut."

The Moral is: A fox is bound
To be a shameless sinner.
And also: When the cheese comes round
You know it's after dinner.
  But (what is only known to few)
  The fox is after dinner, too.

[_Guy Wetmore Carryl_


RED RIDINGHOOD


Most worthy of praise were the virtuous ways
  Of Little Red Riding Hood's ma,
And no one was ever more cautious and clever
  Than Little Red Riding Hood's pa.
They never misled, for they meant what they said,
  And frequently said what they meant:
They were careful to show her the way she should go,
  And the way that they showed her, she went.
    For obedience she was effusively thanked,
    And for anything else she was carefully spanked.

It thus isn't strange that Red Riding Hood's range
  Of virtues so steadily grew,
That soon she won prizes of different sizes,
  And golden enconiums, too.
As a general rule she was head of her school,
  And at six was so notably smart
That they gave her a check for reciting The Wreck
  Of the Hesperus wholly by heart.
    And you all will applaud her the more, I am sure,
    When I add that the money she gave to the poor.

At eleven this lass had a Sunday-school class,
  At twelve wrote a volume of verse,
At fourteen was yearning for glory, and learning
  To be a professional nurse.
To a glorious height the young paragon might
  Have climbed, if not nipped in the bud,
But the following year struck her smiling career
  With a dull and a sickening thud!
    (I have shad a great tear at the thought of her pain,
    And must copy my manuscript over again!)

Not dreaming of harm, one day on her arm
  A basket she hung. It was filled
With drinks made of spices, and jellies, and ices,
  And chicken-wings, carefully grilled,
And a savory stew, and a novel or two
  She persuaded a neighbor to loan,
And a Japanese fan, and a hot water-can.
  And a bottle of _eau de cologne_,
    And the rest of the things that your family fill
    Your room with whenever you chance to be ill.

She expected to find her decrepit but kind
  Old grandmother waiting her call,
Exceedingly ill. Oh, that face on the pillow
  Did not look familiar at all!
With a whitening cheek she started to speak,
  But her peril she instantly saw:
Her grandma had fled and she'd tackled instead
  Four merciless paws and a maw!
    When the neighbors came running the wolf to subdue
    He was licking his chops--and Red Riding Hood's, too!

At this horrible tale some readers will pale,
  And others with horror grow dumb,
And yet it was better, I fear, he should get her:--
  Just think what she might have become!
For an infant so keen might in future have been
  A woman of awful renown,
Who carried on fights for her feminine rights,
  As the Mare of an Arkansas town,
    Or she might have continued the sin of her 'teens
    And come to write verse for the Big Magazines!

     _The Moral_

     The Moral: There's nothing much glummer
       Than children whose talents appal.
     One much prefers those that are dumber,
       And as for the paragons small--
     If a swallow cannot make a summer.
       It can bring on a summary fall!

[_Guy Wetmore Carryl_


A NAUTICAL BALLAD


A capital ship for an ocean trip,
  Was the "Walloping Window-blind";
No gale that blew dismayed her crew
  Or troubled the captain's mind.
The man at the wheel was taught to feel
  Contempt for the wildest blow,
And it often appeared, when the weather had cleared,
  That he'd been in his bunk below.

"The boatswain's mate was very sedate,
  Yet fond of amusement, too;
And he played hop-scotch with the starboard watch,
  While the captain tickled the crew.
And the gunner we had was apparently mad,
  For he sat on the after rail,
And fired salutes with the captain's boots,
  In the teeth of the booming gale.

"The captain sat in a commodore's hat
  And dined in a royal way
On toasted pigs and pickles and figs
  And gummery bread each day.
But the cook was Dutch and behaved as such;
  For the diet he gave the crew
Was a number of tons of hot-cross buns
  Prepared with sugar and glue.

"All nautical pride we laid aside,
  And we cast the vessel ashore
On the Gulliby Isles, where the Poohpooh smiles,
  And the Rumbletumbunders roar.
And we sat on the edge of a sandy ledge
  And shot at the whistling bee;
And the cinnamon-bats wore water-proof hats
  As they danced in the sounding sea.

"On rubgub bark, from dawn to dark,
  We fed, till we all had grown
Uncommonly shrunk,--when a Chinese junk
  Came by from the torriby zone.
She was stubby and square, but we didn't much care,
  And we cheerily put to sea;
And we left the crew of the junk to chew
  The bark of the rubgub tree."

[_Charles E. Carryl_


THE PLAINT OF THE CAMEL


"Canary-birds feed on sugar and seed,
  Parrots have crackers to crunch:
And, as for the poodles, they tell me the noodles
Have chickens and cream for their lunch.
  But there's never a question
  About MY digestion--
Anything does for me!

"Cats, you're aware, can repose in a chair,
  Chickens can roost upon rails;
Puppies are able to sleep in a stable,
And oysters can slumber in pails.
  But no one supposes
  A poor Camel dozes--
Any place does for me!

"Lambs are enclosed where it's never exposed,
  Coops are constructed for hens:
Kittens are treated to houses well heated,
And pigs are protected by pens.
  But a Camel comes handy
  Wherever it's sandy--
Anywhere does for me!

"People would laugh if you rode a giraffe,
  Or mounted the back of an ox;
It's nobody's habit to ride on a rabbit,
Or try to bestraddle a fox.
  But as for a Camel, he's
  Ridden by families--
Any load does for me!

"A snake is as round as a hole in the ground,
  And weasels are wavy and sleek;
And no alligator could ever be straighter
Than lizards that live in a creek,
  But a Camel's all lumpy
  And bumpy and humpy--
Any shape does for me!"

[_Charles E. Carryl_


CHILD'S NATURAL HISTORY


_Geese_

Ev-er-y child who has the use
Of his sen-ses knows a goose.
Sees them un-der-neath the tree
Gath-er round the goose-girl's knee,
While she reads them by the hour
From the works of Scho-pen-hau-er.
How pa-tient-ly the geese at-tend!
But do they re-al-ly com-pre-hend
What Scho-pen-hau-er's driving at?
Oh, not at all; but what of that?
Nei-ther do I; nei-ther does she;
And, for that matter, nor does he.

_A Seal_

See, children, the Furbearing Seal;
Ob-serve his mis-di-rect-ed zeal;
He dines with most ab-ste-mi-ous care
On Fish, Ice Water and Fresh Air
A-void-ing cond-i-ments or spice
For fear his fur should not be nice
And fine and soft and smooth and meet
For Broad-way or for Re-gent Street,
And yet some-how I often feel
(Though for the kind Fur-bear-ing Seal
I harbor a Re-spect Pro-found)
He runs Fur-bear-ance in the ground.

_The Ant_

My child, ob-serve the use-ful Ant,
How hard she works each day.
She works as hard as ad-a-mant
(That's very hard, they say).
She has no time to gall-i-vant;
She has no time to play.
Let Fido chase his tail all day;
Let Kitty play at tag;
She has no time to throw away,
She has no tail to wag;
She scurries round from morn till night;
She nev-er nev-er sleeps;
She seiz-es ev-ery-thing in sight,
She drags it home with all her might,
And all she takes she keeps.

_The Yak_

This is the Yak, so negligee;
His coif-fure's like a stack of hay;
He lives so far from Any-where,
I fear the Yak neglects his hair.
And thinks, since there is none to see,
What mat-ter how un-kempt he be:
How would he feel if he but knew
That in this Picture-book I drew
His Phys-i-og-no-my un-shorn,
For children to de-ride and scorn?

[_Oliver Herford_

[From "A Child's Primer of Natural History." Copyright, 1899, by
Oliver Herford, Chas. Scribner's Sons, Publishers]


ALPHABET OF CELEBRITIES


E is for Edison, making believe
He's invented a clever contrivance for Eve,
Who complained that she never could laugh in her sleeve.

O is for Oliver, casting aspersion
On Omar, that awfully dissolute Persian,
Though secretly longing to join the diversion.

R's Rubenstein, playing that old thing in F
To Rollo and Rembrandt, who wish they were deaf.

S is for Swinburne, who, seeking the true,
The good, and the beautiful, visits the Zoo,
Where he chances on Sappho and Mr. Sardou,
And Socrates, all with the same end in view.

