
That was enough.  Lady R. greeted her as one of the royal blood.  The
girl was the daughter of a Manchester plumber.  She had done her bit,
and it had been a hard bit, in the war, and now she was stenographer in
a near-by village.  Later in the afternoon the story came out.  She had
been clerk in the Q. M. corps and after her brother's death she asked
for service near the front, something hard.  She got it.  The mules in
the supply and ammunition trains must be fed and it was her job to get
hay to a certain division.  The girl had ten motor trucks to handle and
twenty men, three of them noncommissioned officers.

After four days, during which trucks had disappeared and mules gone
unfed, she asked the colonel for the rank of first sergeant, with only
enlisted men under her.

Her first official orders were: All trucks must stay together.  If one
breaks down, the others will stop and help.

The second day of her new command, she met our young host, who needed a
truck to move supplies and tried to commandeer one of hers.  When she
refused, he ordered her.  He was a captain.

"I am under orders to get those ten loads of hay to the mules," was her
reply.

"What will you do if I just take one of them?" asked the captain.

"You won't," said the girl confidently.

"I must get a truck," he insisted.  "What can you do about it if I take
one of yours?"

"England needs men," she answered.  "But if you made it necessary I'd
have to shoot you.  If the mules are n't fed, you and other men can't
fight.  If you were fit to be a captain, you'd know that."


The young captain told the story himself and his family enjoyed it,
evidently admiring the Manchester lassie, who sat there as red as a
poppy.  They did not bend to the plumber's daughter, nor seem to try to
lift her to the altars of their ancient hall.

Every one met on new ground, a ground where human beings had faced death
together.  It was sign of a new fellowship, too deep and fine for even a
fish knife to sever.  There was no consciousness of ancient class.
There was only to-day and to-morrow.

It was the America I love--that spirit.  The best America--valuing a
human being for personal worth.  Then I sailed for home.  I went to
Newport, to the Atlantic coast resorts.  They were all the same.

The world had changed but not my own country.

I saw more show of wealth, more extravagance, more carelessness,
more reckless morals than ever before, and--horrible to
contemplate--springing up in the new world, the narrow social standards
which war had torn from the old.

Social lines tightened.  Men who had been overwhelmingly welcome while
they wore shoulder straps were now rated according to bank accounts or
"family." The "doughboy shavetail", a hero before the armistice, or the
aviator who held the stage until November eleventh, once he put on his
serge suit and went back to selling insurance or keeping books, became a
nodding acquaintance, sometimes not even that.

I was heartsick.  I thought often of those splendid men I had met in
France and of the girls who poured tea for the King of the Belgians.
I wondered if any one back home was "just nodding" to them.

Everywhere was the blatant show of new wealth.

New money always glitters.  I saw it in cars with aluminum hoods and
gold fittings, diamonds big as birds' eggs, ermine coats in the
daytime--jeweled heels at night.

Bad breeding plus new money shouted from every street corner.  At
private dinners, I ate foods that I knew were served merely because they
were expensive, glutton feasts with twice as much as any one could eat
with comfort.

One day I went to market--the kind of a market to which my mother would
have gone--and I saw women whose husbands labored hard, scorning to buy
any but porterhouse steaks--merely because porterhouse steak stood for
prosperity.

