The papyrus containing the odes of Bacchylides was found in Egypt by
natives, and reached the British Museum in the autumn of 1896. It was then
in about 200 pieces. By the skill and industry of Mr F. G. Kenyon, the
editor of the _editio princeps_ (1897), the MS. was reconstructed from
these lacerated members. As now arranged, the MS. consists of three
sections, (1) The first section contains 22 columns of writing. It breaks
off after the 8 opening verses of Ode xii. (2) The second section contains
columns 23-29. Of these, column 23 is represented only by the last letters
of two words. This section comprises what remains of Odes xiii. and xiv. It
breaks off before the end of xiv., which is the last of the epinikia. (3)
The third section comprises columns 30-39. It begins with the mutilated
opening verses of Ode xv. ([Greek: Antênoridai], the first of the
dithyrambs), and breaks off after verse 11 of the last dithyramb,[Greek:
Idas]. The number of lines in a column varies from 32 to 36, the usual
number being 35, or (though less often) 34.

It is impossible to say how much has been lost between the end of column 29
and the beginning of column 30. Probably, however, Ode xiv., if not the
last, was nearly the last of the epinikia. It concerns a festival of a
merely local character, the Thessalian [Greek: Petraia], and was therefore
placed after the thirteen other epinikia, which are connected with the four
great festivals. The same lacuna leaves it doubtful whether any collective
title was prefixed to the [Greek: dithuramboi]. After the last column (39)
of the MS., a good deal has probably been lost. Bacchylides seems to have
written at least three other poems of this class (on Cassandra, Laocoon and
Philoctetes); and these would have come, in alphabetical order, after the
last of the extant six (Idas).

The writing of the MS. is a fine uncial. It presents some traits of a
distinctly Ptolemaic type, though it lacks some features found in the
earlier Ptolemaic MSS. (those of the 3rd or 2nd century B.C.). Among the
characteristic forms of letters is the [form of Upsilon], with a shallow
curve on the top of the upright; a form found in MSS. ascribed to the 1st
century B.C., and different from the more fully formed upsilon of the Roman
period. Another very significant letter is the [Xi], written as [form of
Xi], a form which begins to go out after _c._ 50 B.C., giving place to one
in which the middle stroke is connected with the other two. From these and
other indications it is probable that the MS. is not later than the middle
of the 1st century B.C.

The scribe, though he sometimes corrected his own mistakes, was, on the
whole, careless of the sense, as of the metre; he seems to have been a
mechanical copyist, excellent in penmanship, but [v.03 p.0124] intent only
on the letters. The MS. has received corrections or small supplements from
at least two different persons. One of them (Kenyon's A²) was contemporary,
or nearly so, with the scribe. The other (A³) was considerably later; he
wrote a Roman cursive which might belong to the end of the 1st century
A.D., or to the early part of the 2nd. The correctors seem to be generally
trustworthy; though, like the scribe, they were inattentive to metre,
passing over many metrical faults which could easily have been removed.
They appear to have compared their MS. with another, or others; but they
sometimes made a bad use of such aid, intruding a false reading where their
text had the true one.

Breathings are generally added, especially rough breathings; the form is
usually square, but sometimes partially rounded. Accents are added, not to
all words, but only, as a rule, to those which might cause doubt or
difficulty to the reader. This was the Alexandrian practice, accents being
regarded as aids to correct reading, and more liberally used when the
dialect was not Attic. In accordance with the older system, the accent is
not written on the last syllable of a word; when the accent falls there, a
grave accent is written on the preceding syllable, or on two such syllables
(_e.g._ [Greek: blêchras, pauthalês]).

As Kenyon observes, no MS. of equal antiquity is so well supplied with
accents. The MS. which comes nearest to it in this respect is the Alcman
fragment in the Louvre, which is of similar or slightly higher age,
belonging perhaps to the early part of the 1st century A.D.; and in that
MS. the comparatively frequent accents were doubtless designed to aid
readers unfamiliar with Alcman's Laconian Doric. With regard to other
grammatical or metrical signs ([Greek: prosôidiai]) used in the Bacchylides
MS., there is not much that calls for special remark. The punctuation,
whether by the scribe or by correctors, is very sparse, and certainly
cannot always be regarded as authoritative. The signs denoting the end of a
strophe or antistrophe (_paragraphus_), of an epode (_coronis_), or of an
ode (_asterisk_), are often omitted by the scribe, and, when employed, are
sometimes placed incorrectly, or employed in an irregular manner.

EDITIONS.--F. G. Kenyon, _Ed. princeps_ (1897); F. Blass, 3rd ed. (1904);
H. Jurenka (1898); N. Festa, text, translation and notes (1898). [The
latest edition is by Sir Richard Jebb (1905), with introduction, notes,
translation, and bibliography; text only (1906). See also T. Zanghieri,
_Studi su Bacchilide, Bibliografia Bacchilidea, 1897-1905_ (1905)].

(R. C. J.)

[1] The references are given according to the numbering in Jebb's edition.

[2] For other explanations suggested, see Jebb's edition, Introd. p. 18.

BACCIO D'AGNOLO (_c._ 1460-1543), Florentine wood-carver, sculptor and
architect, had the family name of Baglioni, but was always known by the
abbreviation of Bartolommeo into Baccio and the use of d'Agnolo as meaning
the son of Angelo, his father's name. He started as a wood-carver, and
between 1491 and 1502 did much of the decorative carving in the church of
Santa Maria Novella and the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence. Having made his
reputation as a sculptor he appears to have turned his attention to
architecture, and to have studied at Rome, though at what precise date is
uncertain; but quite at the beginning of the 16th century he was engaged
with Simon Pollajuolo in restoring the Palazzo Vecchio, and in 1506 he was
commissioned to complete the drum of the cupola of the metropolitan church
of Santa Maria del Fiore. The latter work, however, was interrupted on
account of adverse criticisms from Michelangelo, and it remained
unexecuted. Baccio d' Agnolo also planned the Villa Borghese and the
Bartolini palace, with other fine palaces and villas. The Bartolini palace
was the first house to be given frontispieces of columns to the door and
windows, previously confined to churches; and he was ridiculed by the
Florentines for his innovation. Another much-admired work by him was the
campanile of the church of Santo Spirito. His studio was the resort of the
most celebrated artists of the day, Michelangelo, Sansovino, the brothers
Sangallo and the young Raphael. He died in 1543, leaving three sons, all
architects, the best-known being Giuliano.

BACH, JOHANN SEBASTIAN (1685-1750), German musical composer.

[Sidenote: Family.]

The Bach family was of importance in the history of music for nearly two
hundred years. Four branches of it were known at the beginning of the 16th
century, and in 1561 we hear of Hans Bach of Wechmar who is believed to be
the father of Veit Bach (born about 1555). The family genealogy, drawn up
by J. Sebastian Bach himself and completed by his son Philipp Emanuel,
describes Veit Bach as the founder of the family, a baker and a miller,
"whose zither must have sounded very pretty among the clattering of the
mill-wheels." His son, Hans Bach, "_der Spielmann_," is the first
professional musician of the family. Of Hans's large family the second son,
Christoph, was the grandfather of Sebastian Bach. Another son, Heinrich, of
Arnstadt, had two sons, Johann Michael and Johann Christoph, who are among
the greatest of J. S. Bach's forerunners, Johann Christoph being now
supposed (although this is still disputed) to be the author of the splendid
motet, _Ich lasse dich nicht_ ("I wrestle and pray"), formerly ascribed to
Sebastian Bach. Another descendant of Veit Bach, Johann Ludwig, was admired
more than any other ancestor by Sebastian, who copied twelve of his church
cantatas and sometimes added work of his own to them.

The Bach family never left Thuringia until the sons of Sebastian went into
a more modern world. Through all the misery of the peasantry at the period
of the Thirty Years' War this clan maintained its position and produced
musicians who, however local their fame, were among the greatest in Europe.
So numerous and so eminent were they that in Erfurt musicians were known as
"Bachs," even when there were no longer any members of the family in the
town. Sebastian Bach thus inherited the artistic tradition of a united
family whose circumstances had deprived them of the distractions of the
century of musical fermentation which in the rest of Europe had destroyed
polyphonic music.

[Sidenote: Biography.]

Johann Sebastian Bach was baptized at Eisenach on the 23rd of March 1685.
His parents died in his tenth year, and his elder brother, Johann
Christoph, organist at Ohrdruf, took charge of him and taught him music.
The elder brother is said to have been jealous of Sebastian's talent, and
to have forbidden him access to a manuscript volume of works by Froberger,
Buxtehude and other great organists. Every night for six months Sebastian
got up, put his hand through the lattice of the bookcase, and copied the
volume out by moonlight, to the permanent ruin of his eyesight (as is shown
by all the extant portraits of him at a later age and by the blindness of
his last years). When he had finished, his brother discovered the copy and
took it away from him. In 1700 Sebastian, now fifteen and thrown on his own
resources by the death of his brother, went to Lüneburg, where his
beautiful soprano voice obtained him an appointment at the school of St
Michael as chorister. He seems, however, to have worked more at
instrumental than at vocal music. Apart from the choristers' routine, his
position provided only for his general education, and we know little about
his definite musical instructors. In any case he owed his musical
development mainly to his own incessant study of classical and contemporary
composers, such as Frescobaldi (_c._ 1587), Caspar Kerl (1628-1693),
Buxtehude, Froberger, Muffat the elder, Pachelbel and probably Johann
Joseph Fux (1660-1741), the author of the _Gradus ad Parnassum_ on which
all later classical composers were trained. A prettier and no less
authentic story than that of his brother's forbidden organ-volume tells
how, on his return from one of the many holiday expeditions which Bach made
to Hamburg on foot to hear the great Dutch organist Reinken, he sat outside
an inn longing for the dinner he could not afford, when two herring-heads
were flung out of the window, and he found in each of them a ducat with
which he promptly paid his way, not home, but back to Hamburg. At Hamburg,
also, Keiser was laying the foundations of German opera on a splendid scale
which must have fired Bach's imagination though it never directly
influenced his style. On the other hand Keiser's church music was of
immense importance in his development. In Celle the famous _Hofkapelle_
brought the influence of French music to bear upon Bach's art, an influence
which inspired nearly all his works in suite-form and to which his many
autograph copies of Couperin's music bear testimony. Indeed, there is no
branch of music, from Palestrina onwards, conceivably accessible in Bach's
time, of which we do not find specimens carefully copied in his own
handwriting. On the other hand, when Bach, at the age of nineteen, became
organist at Arnstadt, he found Lübeck within easy distance, and there, in
October 1705, he went to hear Buxtehude, whose organ works show so close an
affinity to Bach's style that only their lack of coherence as wholes
reveals to the attentive listener that with all their nobility they are not
by Bach himself. Bach's enthusiasm for Buxtehude caused him to outstay his
leave by three months, and this, together with his [v.03 p.0125] habit of
astonishing the congregation by the way he harmonized the chorales got him
into trouble. But he was already too great an ornament to be lightly
dismissed; and though his answers to the complaints of the authorities
(every word of which makes amusing reading in the archives of the church)
were spirited rather than satisfactory, and the _consistorium_ had to add
to their complaints the grave scandal of his allowing a "strange maiden" to
sing in the church,[1] Bach was able to maintain his position at Arnstadt
until he obtained the organistship of St Blasius in Mühlhausen in 1707.
Here he married his cousin, easily identified with the "strange maiden" of
Arnstadt; and here he wrote his first great church cantatas, _Aus der
Tiefe_, _Gott ist mein König_ and _Gottes Zeit_.

Bach's mastery of the keyboard attracted universal attention, and prevented
his ever being unemployed. In 1708 he went to Weimar where his successes
were crowned by his appointment, in 1714, at the age of twenty-nine, as
_Hofkonzertmeister_ to the duke of Weimar. Here the composition of sacred
music was one of his most congenial duties, and the great cantata, _Ich
hatte viel Bekümmerniss_, was probably the first work of his new office. In
1717 Bach visited Dresden in the course of a concert tour, and was induced
to challenge the arrogant French organist, J. Louis Marchand, who was
making himself thoroughly disliked by the German musicians who could not
deny his powers. Bach was first given an opportunity of listening secretly
to Marchand's playing, then a competition on the organ was proposed, and a
day was fixed for the tournament at which all the court and all the musical
celebrities of the town were to be present, to see nothing less than the
issue between French and German music. Marchand took up the challenge
contemptuously, but it would appear that he also was allowed to listen
secretly to Bach's playing, for on the day of the tournament the only news
of him was that he had left Dresden by the earliest coach.

This triumph was followed by Bach's appointment as _Kapellmeister_ to the
duke of Cöthen, a post which he held from 1717 to 1723. The Cöthen period
is that of Bach's central instrumental works, such as the first book of the
_Wohltemperirtes Klavier_, the solo violin and violoncello sonatas, the
Brandenburg concertos, and the French and English suites.

In 1723, finding his position at Cöthen uninspiring for choral music, he
removed to Leipzig, where he became cantor of the Thomasschule, being still
able to retain his post as visiting _Kapellmeister_ at Cöthen, besides a
similar position at Weissenfels. His wife had died in 1720, leaving seven
children, of whom Friedermann and Philipp Emanuel had a great future before
them. (For his sons see BACH, K. P. E., below.) In December 1721 Bach
married again, and for the beautiful soprano voice of his second wife he
wrote many of his most inspired arias. She was a great help to him with all
his work, and her musical handwriting soon became so like his own that her
copies are difficult to distinguish from his autographs. In 1729 Bach heard
that Handel was for a second time visiting Halle on his way back to London
from Italy. A former attempt of Bach's to meet Handel had failed, and now
he was too ill to travel, so he sent his son to Halle to invite Handel to
Leipzig; but the errand was not successful, and much to Bach's
disappointment he never met his only compeer. Bach so admired Handel that
he made a manuscript copy of his _Passion nach Brockes_. This work, though
almost unknown in England then as now, was, next to the oratorios of
Keiser, incomparably the finest Passion then accessible, as Graun's
beautiful masterpiece, _Der Tod Jesu_, was not composed until four years
after Bach's death. The disgusting poem of Brockes (which was set by every
German composer of the time) was transformed by Bach with real literary
skill as the groundwork of the non-scriptural numbers in his _Passion
according to St John_.

All Bach's most colossal achievements, such as the _Passion according to St
Matthew_ and the _B Minor Mass_ (for discussion of which see ORATORIO and
MASS), date from his cantorship at Leipzig. But, important and congenial as
was his position there, and smooth as the course of his life seems to have
been until his death in 1750, he must have had quite as much experience as
can have been good for him. He was often ruffled by the town councillors of
Leipzig, who (like his earlier employers at Arnstadt) were shocked by the
"unecclesiastical style" of his compositions and by his independent
bearing. But he had more serious troubles. Of his seven children by his
first wife only three survived him. By his second wife he had thirteen
children, of whom he lost four of the six sons. For the head of so large a
family his post was dignified rather than lucrative, and few documents tell
a prouder tale of uncomplaining thrift than the inventory of his
possessions made after his death. One can only be thankful that he did not
live to see anything but the wonderful promise of his son Friedermann, who,
in the words of the brilliantly successful K. Philipp Emanuel Bach, was
more nearly capable of replacing his father than all the rest of the family
together. The prospect of complete loss of the tradition of his own
polyphonic art he faced with equanimity, saying of the new style, which in
the hands of his own son, Philipp Emanuel, was soon to eclipse it for the
next hundred years, "The art has advanced to great heights: the old style
of music no longer pleases our modern ears." But it would have broken his
heart if he had forseen that Friedermann Bach was to attain a disreputable
old age after a dissolute and unproductive life.

The brilliant successes of Philipp Emanuel led to his appointment as
court-composer to the king of Prussia and hence, in 1747, to Sebastian's
being summoned to visit Frederick the Great at Potsdam, an incident which
Bach always regarded as the culmination of his career, much as Dr Johnson
regarded his interview with George III. Bach had to play on the numerous
newly invented pianofortes of Silbermann which the king had bought, and
also to try the organs of the churches of Potsdam. Frederick, whose musical
reputation rested on a genuine if narrow basis, gave him a splendid theme
on which to extemporize; and on that theme Bach afterwards wrote _Das
musikalische Opfer_. Two years after this event his sight began to fail,
and before long he shared the fate of Handel in becoming perfectly
blind.[2]

Bach died of apoplexy on the 28th of July 1750. His loss was deplored as
that of one of the greatest organists and clavier players of his time. Of
his compositions comparatively little was known. At his death his MS. works
were divided amongst his sons, and many of them have been lost; only a
small fraction of his greater works was recovered when, after the lapse of
nearly a century, the verdict of his neglectful posterity was reversed by
the modern upholders of polyphonic art. Even now some important works are
still apparently irrecoverable.

[Sidenote: Work and influence.]

The rediscovery of Bach is closely connected with the name of Mendelssohn,
who was amongst the first to proclaim by word and deed the powers of a
genius too gigantic to be grasped by three generations. By the enthusiastic
endeavours of Mendelssohn, Schumann and others, and in England still
earlier by the performances and publications of Wesley and Crotch, the
circle of Bach's worshippers rapidly increased. In 1850, a century after
his death, a society was started for the correct publication of all Bach's
remaining works. Robert Franz, the great song-writer, did good service in
arranging some of Bach's finest works for modern performance, until the
experience of a purer scholarship could prove not only the possibility but
the incomparably greater beauty of a strict adherence to Bach's own
scoring. The Porson of Bach-scholarship, however, is Wilhelm Rust (grandson
of the interesting composer of that name who wrote polyphonic suites and
fantasias early in the 19th century). During the fourteen years of his
editorship of the _Bach-Gesellschaft_ he displayed a steadily increasing
insight into Bach's style which has never since been rivalled. In more than
one case he has restored harmonies of priceless value from incomplete
texts, by means of research and reasoning which he sums up in a modest
footnote that reads as something self-evident. His prefaces to the
_Bach-Gesellschaft_ volumes are perhaps the most valuable contributions to
the criticism of 18th-century music ever written, Spitta's great biography
not excepted.

[v.03 p.0126] Bach's importance in the history of music cannot be
exaggerated. His art, neglected as old-fashioned and crabbed by his younger
contemporaries, survived only in certain limited aspects as the subject of
a desultory and unintelligent academic study, until its re-discovery by
Mendelssohn. And yet, whatever disguise may have been foisted on it by
corrupt traditions and ignorance of its idioms, whenever any fragment of it
gained the inner ear of a true composer the effect on the history of music
was immediate and profound. Indeed his influence is by no means chiefly
manifested in the time when his work became known in its larger aspects,
though the Bach-revival is very obviously connected with certain tendencies
in the "Romantic" movement in music. But, however clear we may consider
Bach's claim to the title of "the first of Romanticists," the full
influence of his whole work has hardly yet begun to show itself. Schumann
died before even such enthusiasts as the editors of the _Bach-Gesellschaft_
began to find more beauty than extravagance in Bach's ordinary musical
language (see, for example, Hauptmann's letters _passim_, _The Letters of a
Leipzig Cantor_, trans. by A. D. Coleridge, London, Novello, Ewer, 1892),
or, indeed, to grasp the main features of his designs.[3] The labours of
the _Bach-Gesellschaft_ have occupied more than fifty years, during which
about four-fifths of Bach's choral works have been published for the first
time; and it would be surprising if another fifty years sufficed to make
these adequately known to the world at large. It is difficult to make an
anthology of such bulky works as church-cantatas, nor does an anthology
meet the purpose where the whole work so constantly attains that excellence
for which the anthologist seeks. Except for practical difficulties (as when
Bach writes for obsolete instruments) the only reason why some cantatas are
better known than others is that a beginning must be made somewhere.
Indeed, a cantata was recently selected, on the ground of its popularity,
for a choral competition in a small English country town the year before it
was performed as a novelty in Berlin!

It is clear, then, that the influence of Bach's art as an understood whole
is still undeveloped. In the past history of music his part was hardly
suspected except by the great composers themselves; and, to any one
contemplating the art of the generation after him, it might have seemed
that both he and Handel had worked in vain. Yet his was the most subtle and
universal force in the development of music, even when his musical language
seemed hopelessly forgotten. Mozart, when rapidly advancing to the height
of his mastery, had but to read the Baron von Swieten's manuscript copies
of the motets and of the _Wohltemperirtes Klavier_, and his style, quite
apart from his immediate essays in the old art-forms, and apart also from
the influence of his study of Handel, developed a new polyphonic richness
and depth of harmony which steadily increased until his untimely death.
Beethoven studied all the accessible works of Bach profoundly, and
frequently quoted them in his sketch-books, often with a direct bearing on
his own works. His rendering of the _Wohltemperirtes Klavier_ is said to be
recorded in the marks of expression and _tempo_ given in Czerny's edition;
and if that record is true, Beethoven must have been completely in the dark
as to Bach's meaning in many important respects; but art is full of such
illustrations of the way in which great minds influence each other in spite
of every barrier which diversity of language and time can set. Beethoven's
great Thirty-three Variations on a Waltz by Diabelli were actually
described in the publisher's puff as worthy of their kinship with the
"Goldberg Variations" of Bach; and that kinship is revealed in its truest
light by a comparison between Beethoven's 31st variation and Bach's 25th;
for here, just where the resemblance is most obvious, each composer utters
his most intimate expression of feeling.

In the same way, Chopin is nowhere more characteristic than where he shows
his love of the _Wohltemperirtes Klavier_ in his Études and Preludes; and
so subtle is the influence of polyphonic style even over a writer so little
apt to make direct use of it as Chopin, that one of Schumann's few
plagiarisms occurs in his use of a phrase from Chopin's F minor Étude
(written for the _Méthode des méthodes_) as the subject of a fugue (Op. 72,
No. 3). And, apart from fugues, which Schumann cultivated assiduously at a
late stage in his career, the influence of Bach pervades the texture and
rhythm of his work in more ways than can easily be followed.

