Three other novice dogs were already in the ring when Link
arrived at the narrow opening. The steward was sitting at the
table as before. At the corner of the ring, alongside the
platform, stood a man in tweeds, unlighted pipe in mouth,
half-shut shrewd eyes studying the dogs as they filed in through
the gap in the ropes. The inscrutable eyes flickered ever so
little at sight of Chum, but at once resumed their former
disinterested gaze.

"Walk close!" whispered Link as the parade started.

Chum, hearing a command he had long since learned, ranged himself
at Ferris's side and paced majestically in the procession of
four. Two of the other novice dogs were straining at their
leashes; the third was hanging back and pawing frantically to
break away. Chum, unleashed, guided only by the voice, drew every
eye to him by his rare beauty and his lofty self-possession.

But he was not allowed to finish the parade. Stepping up to
Ferris, Judge Leighton tapped him on the arm.

"Take your dog over to that corner," he ordered, "and keep him
there."

Link fought back a yearning to punch the judge, and surlily he
obeyed the mandate. Into his memory jumped the things the groom
had said about a dog being "gated." If that judge thought for one
second that any of those mutts could hold a candle to Chum--.
Again he yearned to enforce with his two willing fists his
opinion of the judge.

But, as he well knew, to start a fight in this plutocratic
assemblage would mean a jail term. And in such case, what would
befall the deserted Chum? For the dog's sake he restrained
himself, and he began to edge surreptitiously toward the ring
exit, with a view to sliding out unperceived with his splendid,
underrated dog.

But Ferris did not reach the gate unchecked.

Judge Leighton had ended the parade and had stood the three dogs,
one by one and then two at a time, on the platform while he
studied them. Then he had crossed to the table and picked up the
judging book and four ribbons--one blue, one red, one yellow and
one white. Three of these ribbons he handed to the three
contestants' handlers.

Then he stepped across the ring to where Ferris was edging his
way toward the exit; and handed Link the remaining ribbon. It was
dark blue, with gilt lettering.

Leighton did not so much as subject Chum to the handling and
close inspection he had lavished on the three others. One expert
glance had told the judge that the dark-sable collie, led by this
loutish countryman, was better fitted to clean up prizes at
Madison Square Garden than to appear in a society dog show in the
North Jersey hinterland.

Leighton had viewed Chum, as a bored musician, listening to the
piano-antics of defective children, might have regarded the
playing of a disguised Paderewski. Wherefore, he had waved the
dog to one side while he judged the lesser entrants, and then had
given him the merited first-prize ribbon.

Link, in a daze of bliss, stalked back to the bench; with Chum
capering along at his side. The queer sixth sense of a collie
told Chum his god was deliriously happy, and that Chum himself
had somehow had a share in making him so. Hence the dog's former
gloomy pacing changed to a series of ecstatic little dance steps,
and he kept thrusting his cold muzzle into the cup of Ferris's
palm.

Again Bench 65 was surrounded by an admiring clump of spectators.
Chum and Link vied each other in their icy aloofness toward these
admirers. But with a difference.

Chum was unaffectedly bothered by so much unwelcome attention
from strangers. Ferris, on the other hand, reveled in the
knowledge that his beloved pet was the center of more adulation
than was any other dog in all the section.

Class after class went to be judged. Link was sorry he had not
spent more money and entered Chum in every class. The initial
victory had gone to his head. He had not known he could be so
serenely happy. After a while, he started up at the attendant's
droning announcement of,

"Winners' Class, Male Scotch Collies! Numbers 62, 65, 68,70, 73!"

Again Link and Chum set out for the ring. Link's glee had merged
into an all-consuming nervousness, comparable only to a maiden
hunter's "buck ague." Chum, once more sensing Ferris's state of
mind, lost his own glad buoyancy and paced solemnly alongside,
peering worriedly up into Link's face at every few steps.

All five entrants filed into the ring and began their parade.
Leighton, in view of the importance of this crowning event, did
not single out any one dog, as before, to stand to one side; nor
did he gate any. He gave owners and spectators their full due, by
a thorough inspection of all five contestants. But as a result of
his examination, he ended the suspense by handing Link Ferris a
purple rosette, whereon was blazoned in gilt the legend,
"Winners."

A salvo of handclaps greeted the eminently just decision. And
Chum left the ring, to find a score of gratulatory hands
stretched forth to pat him. Quite a little crowd escorted him
back to his bench.

A dozen people picked acquaintance with Link. They asked him all
sorts of questions as to his dog. Link made monosyllabic and
noncommittal replies to all of these--even when the great Col.
Cyrus Marden himself deigned to come over to the collie section
and stare at Chum, accompanying his scrutiny with a volley or
patronizing inquiries.

From the bystanders Link learned something of real
interest--namely, that one of the "specials" was a big silver
cup, to be awarded to "best collie of either sex"; and that after
the females should have been, judged, the winning female and Chum
must appear in the ring together to compete for this trophy.

Sure enough, in less than thirty minutes Chum was summoned to the
ring. There, awaiting him, was a dainty and temperamental merle,
of the Tazewell strain. Exquisite and high-bred as was this
female competitor, Judge Leighton wasted little time on the
examination before giving Ferris a tricolored ribbon, whose
possession entitled him to one of the shimmering silver mugs in
the near-by trophy case.

After receiving full assurance that the big cup should be his at
the close of the show, Link returned to Chum's bench in ecstasy
and sat down beside his tired dog, with one arm thrown lovingly
round the collie's ruff. Chum nestled against his triumphant
master, as Link fondled his bunch of ribbons and went over,
mentally, every move of his triumphal morning.

The milling and changing groups of spectators in front of Bench
65 did not dwindle. Indeed, as the morning went on, they
increased. People kept coming back to the bench and bringing
others with them. Some of these people whispered together. Some
merely stared and went away. Some asked Ferris carefully worded
questions, to which the shyly happy mountaineer replied with
sheepish grunts.

The long period of judging came at last to an end. And the "Best
Dog in Show" special was called.

Into the ring Ferris escorted Chum, amid a multitude of fellow
winners, representing one male or female of every breed
exhibited. Leighton and another judge stood in the ring's center,
and around them billowed the heterogeneous array. The two went at
their Gargantuan task with an expert swiftness. Mercilessly, dog
after dog was weeded out and gated. At last, Chum and two others
were all remaining of the many which had thronged the ring. The
spectators were banked, five deep and breathless, round the
ropes.

The two judges went into brief executive session in one corner.
Then Leighton crossed to Link, for the fourth time that day, and
gave him the gaudy rosette which proclaimed Chum "best dog in the
show." A roar of applause went up. Link felt dizzy--and numb.
Then, with a gasp of rapture, he stooped and gathered the bored
Chum in his long arms, in a bearlike, ecstatic hug.

"We done it, Chummie!" he chortled. "WE DONE IT!"

Still in a daze, he followed the steward to the trophy case,
where he received not only the shining silver cup, but a
"sovereign purse," wherein were ensconced ten ten-dollar gold
pieces.

It was all a dream--a wonder dream from which presently he must
awaken. Link was certain of that. But while the golden dream
lasted, he knew the nameless joys of paradise.

Chum close at his side, he made his way through the
congratulating crowd toward the outer gate of the country club
grounds. He had almost reached the wicket when someone touched
him, with unnecessary firmness, on the shoulder.

Not relishing the familiarity, Link turned a scowling visage on
the interrupter of his triumphal homeward progress. At his elbow
stood a stockily-built man, dressed with severe plainness.

"You're Lincoln Ferris?" queried the stranger, more as if stating
aggressively a fact than making an inquiry.

"Yep," said Link, cross at this annoying break-in upon his trance
of happiness. "What d'j' want?" he added.

"Please step back to the clubhouse a minute with me," returned
the stranger, civilly enough, but with the same bossy firmness in
his tone that had jarred Ferris in his touch. "One or two people
want to speak to you. Bring along your dog."

Link glowered. He fancied he knew what was in store. Some of the
ultra  select had gathered in the holy interior of the clubhouse
and wanted a private view of Chum, unsullied by the noisy
presence of the crowd outside. They would talk patronizingly to
Link, and perhaps even try to coax him into selling Chum. The
thought decided Ferris.

"I'm goin' home!" he said roughly.

"You're coming with me," contradicted the man in that same quiet
voice, but slipping his muscular arm into Link's.

With his other hand he shifted the lapel of his coat, displaying
a police badge on its reverse. Still avoiding any outward
appearance of force, he turned about, with his arm locked in
Ferris's and started toward the clubhouse.

"Here!" expostulated poor Link, with all a true mountaineer's
horror of the police. "What's all this? I ain't broke no law!
I--"

An ugly growl from Chum punctuated his scared plea. Noting the
terror in his master's tone and the grip of the stranger on
Link's arm, Chum had spun round to face the two.

The collie's eyes were fixed grimly upon the plainclothes man's
temptingly thick throat. One corner of Chum's upper lip was
curled back, displaying a businesslike if snowy fang. His head
was lowered. Deep in his furry throat a succession of legato
growls were born.

The plain-clothes man knew much about dogs. He knew, for example,
that when a dog holds his head high and barks there is no special
danger to be feared from him. But he also knew that when a dog
lowers his head and growls, showing his eyetooth, he means
business.

And the man shrank from the menace. One hand crept back
instinctively toward his hip pocket.

Link saw the purely involuntary gesture, and he shook in his
boots. It was thus a Hampton constable had once reached back when
a stray cur snapped at him. And that constable had completed the
movement by drawing a pistol and shooting the cur. Perhaps this
non-uniformed stranger meant to do the same thing.

"Hold on!" begged Link, intervening between the man and the dog.
"I'll go along with you peaceful. Quit, Chum! It's all right!"

The dog still looked undecided. He did not like this new note in
his god's voice. But he obeyed the injunction, and fell into step
at Link's side as usual. Ferris suffered himself to be piloted,
unresisting, through the tattered remnant of the crowd and up the
clubhouse steps.

There his conductor led him through the sacred portals and down a
wide hallway to the door of a committee room. Throwing open the
door, he ushered in his captive and the dog, entering behind them
and reclosing the heavy door.

In the room, round a table, sat several persons--all men except
one. The exception was the girl whose collie had had the bench
next to Chum's. At the table head, looking very magisterial
indeed, sat Colonel Marden. Beside him lounged a larger and older
man in a plaid sport suit.

Link's escort ranged his prisoners at the foot of the table; Chum
standing tight against Ferris's knee, as if to guard him from
possible harm. Link stood glowering in sullen perplexity at the
Colonel. Marden cleared his voice pompously, then spoke.

"Ferris," he began with much impressiveness, "I am a magistrate
of this county --as you perhaps know. You may consider yourself
before the Bar of Justice, and reply to my questions
accordingly."

Awed by this thundered preamble, Ferris made shift to mutter:

"I ain't broke no laws. What d'j' want of me, anyhow?"

"First of all," proceeded Marden, "where did you get that dog?"

"Chum here?" said Ferris. "Why, I come acrost him, early last
spring, on the patch of state road, jes' outside of Hampton. He
was a-layin' in a ditch, with his leg bust. Throwed off'n a auto,
I figgered it. I took him home an'--"

He paused, as the sport-suited man next to Marden nodded
excitedly to the girl and then whispered to the Colonel.

"You took him home?" pursued Marden. "Couldn't you see he was a
valuable dog?"

"I c'd see he was a sufferin' an' dyin'  dawg," retorted Link. "I
c'd see he was a goner, 'less I took him home an' 'tended him. If
you're aimin' at findin' out why I went on keepin' him after
that, I done so because no one claimed him. I put up notices
'bout him. I put one up at the post-office here, too. I--"

"He did!" interrupted the girl. "That's true! I saw it. Only--the
notice said it was a bird dog. That's why we didn't follow it up.
He--"

"Miss Gault," suggested Marden in lofty reproof, "suppose you
leave the interrogatory to me, if you please? Yes, I recollect
that notice. My attention was called to it at the time. But,"
again addressing Link, "why did you call 'Glenmuir Cavalier' a
'BIRD dog'? Was it to throw us off the track or--"

"Don't know no What's-His-Name Cav'lier!" snapped Ferris. "This
dawg's name is Chum. Like you c'n see in my entry blank, what's
layin' on the table in front of you. I adv'tised Chum as a bird
dawg because I s'posed he WAS a bird dawg. I ain't a sharp on
dawgs. He's the fust one ever I had. If he ain't a bird dawg,
'tain't my fault. He looks more like one than like 'tother breeds
I'd seen. So I called him one."

"There is no need to raise your voice at me!" rebuked the
colonel. "I am disposed to accept your explanation. But if you
read the local papers you must have seen--"

"I did read 'em," said Ferris. "I read 'em steady for a month or
more, to see was there was adv'tisement fer a lost dawg. Nary an
adv'tisement did I see excep' one fer a 'sable' collie. 'Sable'
means 'black.' I know, because our dominie told me so. I asked
him, when I see that piece in the paper. Chum ain't black, nor
nowheres near black. So I knowed it couldn't be him. What d'j'
want of me, anyhow?" he demanded once more.

"Again, I am disposed to credit your explanation," boomed the
colonel, frowning down a ripple of giggles that had its rise in
Miss Gault. "And I am disposed to acquit you of consciously
dishonest intent. I am glad to do so. Here is the situation:
Early last spring, Mr. Gault," indicating the sport-suit wearer
at his left, "bought from the famous Glenmuir Collie Kennels, on
the Hudson, an unusually fine young collie--a dog for which
connoisseurs predicted a great future in the show ring. He
purchased it as a gift for his daughter, Miss Marion Gault."

He inclined his head slightly toward the girl; then proceeded:

"As Mr. Glenmuir was disbanding his  kennel, Mr. Gault was able
to secure the dog--Glenmuir Cavalier. He started for Craigswold,
with the dog on the rear seat of the car. At first he kept a hand
on the dog's collar, but as the collie made no attempt to escape,
he soon turned around--he was in the front seat--and paid no more
attention to him. Just outside of Suffern, he looked back--to
find Cavalier had disappeared. He advertised, and made all
possible efforts to locate the dog. But he could get no clew to
him, until to-day. Seeing this dog of yours in the show ring, he
recognized him at once."

The pompously booming voice, with its stilted diction, ceased.
All eyes were upon Link Ferris. The mountaineer, stung to life by
the silence and the multiple gaze, came out of his trance of
shock.

"Then--then," he stuttered, forcing the words from a throat
sanded by sudden dread, "then Chum rightly b'longs to this man?"

"Quite so!" assented Marden, in some relief. "I am glad you grasp
the point so readily. Mr. Gault has talked the matter over with
me, and he is taking a remarkably broad and generous view of the
case if I may say so. He is not only willing that you should keep
the cup and the cash prize which you have won to-day, but he is
also ready to pay to you the seventy-five dollar reward he
offered for the return of Glenmuir Cavalier. I repeat, this
strikes me as most gener--"

"NO!" yelled Link, a spasm of foreseen loneliness sweeping over
him. "NO! ! He can't have him! Nobody can! Why Chum's my dawg!
I've learned him to fetch cows an' shake hands an'--an'
everything! An' he drug me out'n the lake, when I was
a-drowndin'! An' he done a  heap more'n that fer me! He's drug me
up to my feet, out'n wuthlessness, too; an' he's learned me that
livin' is wuth while! He's my--my--he's my dawg!" he finished
lamely, his scared eyes sweeping the circle of faces in panic
appeal.

"That will do, Ferris!" coldly exhorted the colonel. "We wish no
scenes here. You will take this seventyfive dollar check which
Mr. Gault has so kindly made out for you, and you will go."

"Leavin' Chum behind?" babbled Ferris, aghast. "Not leavin' Chum
behind? PLEASE not!"

He pulled himself together with an effort that drove his nails
bitingly into his palms and left his face gray. He saw the
uselessness of pleading with these people of polished iron, who
could not understand his fearful loss. For the sake of Chum--for
the sake of the self-respecting man he himself had become--he
would not let himself go to pieces. Forcing his shaken voice to a
dry steadiness, he addressed the uneasily squirming Gault.

"What d'j' you pay for Chum when you bought him off'n that Hudson
River feller--that Glenmuir chap?" he demanded.

"Why, as a matter of fact," responded Gault, "as Colonel Marden
has told you, I couldn't have hoped to get such a promising
collie at any price it--"

"What d'j' you pay for him?" insisted Link, his voice harsh and
unconsciously domineering as a vague new hope dawned on his
troubled mind.

"I paid six hundred dollars," answered Gault shortly, in
annoyance at the boor's manner.

"Good!" approved Link, "That gives us suthin' to go on. I'll pay
you six hundred dollars fer him back. This hundred dollars in
gold an' this yer silver cup an' seven dollars more I got with
me--to bind the bargain. An' a second mortgage on my farm fer the
rest. Fer as much of the rest," he amended, "as I ain't got ready
cash for."

In his stark earnestness, Link's rough voice sounded more
hectoring and unpleasant than before. Gault, unused to such talk
from the alleged "peasantry," resolved to cut short the haggling.

"Sell for six hundred a dog that's cleaned up 'best in the
show?'" he rasped. "No, thank you. Leighton says Cavalier will go
far. One man, ten minutes ago, offered me a thousand for him."

"A thousan'?" repeated Ferris, scared at the magnitude of the
sum--then, rallying, he asked:

"What WILL you let me have him fer, then? Set a price, can't
you?"

