Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Pauline, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIII, NO. 359.] SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1829. [Price 2d.


RUGBY SCHOOL


[Illustration: Rugby School.]


On the eastern border of Warwickshire, about 13 miles from Coventry, and
16 from Warwick, stands the cheerful town of Rugby, a place of great
antiquity, but of little note previous to the erection of a grammar-school
there, towards the close of the sixteenth century. The circumstances under
which this school was founded, and the rank it has attained among our
classical seminaries, may probably be interesting to the reader.

Rugby School was founded in the ninth year of Elizabeth, by Lawrence
Sheriff, grocer, of London, chiefly as a free grammar-school for the
children of the parishes of Rugby and Brownsover, and places adjacent. For
the accommodation of the master, who was, "if it conveniently might be, to
be ever a Master of Arts," he bequeathed a messuage at Rugby, in which it
is probable he had himself resided during the last few years of his life,
and he directed that there should be built, near this residence, a fair
and convenient school-house, to defray which expense, and of a contiguous
almshouse, he bequeathed the revenue of the rectory of Brownsover, and a
third portion of twenty-four acres of land, situate in _Lamb's Conduit
Fields_, "near London," and termed the Conduit Close. These eight acres
were of trivial value at the period; and in 1653, the trustees of the
property paid the schoolmaster a salary of 12_l_. a year, and each of the
alms-men 7_s_. 7_d_. In 1686, the Lamb's Conduit property was leased for
fifty years at 50_l_. per annum. The metropolis increased, and stretching
one of its _Briareusian_ arms in this direction, the once neglected field
rose in value, and in 1702 (thirty-four years before the expiration of the
above term) the trustees granted a fresh lease to William (afterwards Sir
William) Milman, of forty-three years, to commence at the termination of
the former lease. Building was not then a mania, and Sir William obtained
his term for 60_l_. per annum; so that until the year 1780, the annual
produce of the estate belonging to the Rugby charity, was only 116_l_.
17_s_. 6_d_.! But, shortly after the grant of an extended term to Sir W.
Milman, handsome streets of family houses sprung up, and it was computed
that a ground-rent of at least 1,600_l_. would accrue to the charity on
the expiration of his lease. A much greater income has, in fact, arisen,
and the revenues will be materially increased on the termination of the
present leases.

The flourishing finances of this noble institution are well managed by
twelve trustees, chosen from the nobility and gentry of the country.[1]

The ancient buildings of the Rugby seminary were a humble tenement for the
schoolmaster, a principal school-room, and two or three additional
school-rooms, built at different times, as the finances would allow. These
being found too limited, in 1808 the trustees commenced the erection of
the present structure, from the designs of Mr. Henry Hakewill. It stands
nearly on the same spot as the former humble building, and is composed of
white brick, the angles, cornices, and dressings to the windows and
openings being of Aldborough stone. The style of architecture is that of
the reign of Elizabeth, the period at which the school was founded. The
building is massy, august, and interesting from its graceful disposition
of parts. The principal front is that represented in our engraving, which
extends 220 feet.

The schools are entered by a gateway opposite the street, which leads to
the principal court, a fine area, 90 feet long by 75 feet wide, with a
plain cloister on the east, south, and west sides. The buildings on the
south of the court comprise the dining hall, belonging to the boys in the
head master's house, and three schools for different classes; those on the
west are occupied by the great school; and on the north are the French and
writing schools. The east side adjoins the offices belonging to the head
master's house. About sixty boys are accommodated here; the remainder
lodge in the houses of the other masters, and in the town of Rugby.

Lawrence Sheriff, the benevolent founder of this institution, was born at
Brownsover, whence he removed to London, where he kept a grocer's shop in
Newgate-street. A more gratifying portrait of true beneficence than
Sheriff's bequest can scarcely be found in British annals; and this
gratification is greatly enhanced by the justice with which his intentions
have been carried into effect at Rugby. The alms-houses were originally
for four poor old men; but the dwellings have been augmented in proportion
to the increased revenues.

    [1] Their annual meeting is in August, when the examination takes
        place. Fourteen exhibitions have been instituted, each of the
        exhibitioners being allowed forty pounds per annum to assist in
        their support, for seven years, at either university.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHOICE HINTS FOR A PLAN TO DISCHARGE THE NATIONAL DEBT.

(_For the Mirror_.)


"Great events sometimes spring from trivial causes," of the truth of this
adage, no man is, I think, so great a _heretic_, as to express any
doubt--were such the case, it would be by no means difficult to conjure up
a host of evidence, in support of our proposition; but, seeing that "such
things are," let us at once to the point.

The present age is so rife in whims and proposals, that I am rather
apprehensive, some may doubt the _feasibility_ of the following.
Nevertheless, it is, methinks, quite as good, as many others which
recently were strangled, in struggling for existence.

In looking over some old pamphlets the other day, I met with the following
"true and particular account" of Mr. Peter Pounce, Postmaster, of
Petersham, and his horse, Prance.

Now, according to my author (of whose veracity I entreat the reader to use
his own discretion) it seems this Mr. Pounce was an exceedingly good kind
of man, and that his horse, Prance, was also an exceedingly good kind of
horse; moreover, when the postmaster travelled, he usually put up at the
_George_, where there is exceeding good entertainment for both man and
horse. Upon one occasion, being in great haste, Mr. Pounce directed the
ostler not to put Prance into the stable, but to tie him to the brew-house
door. Now, as cruel fate would have it, there was just within the nag's
reach, a tub full of wine lees, which, luckless moment for him, (being
thirsty) he unceremoniously quaffed off in a trice, without even _here's
to you_.

The consequence was, Prance fell down dead drunk; nay, he acted death so
much to the life, that his master, reckoning him absolutely defunct, had
him flayed, and sold his skin to a tanner, who happened to be drinking in
the alehouse kitchen. Mr. Pounce then walked in a solitary mood to his
home, and communicated the melancholy affair to his good lady, who wept
bitterly at Prance's untimely fate.

But leaving her to dry her eyes, we return to the nag--the weather being
cold, he was by the loss of his skin, &c. quite sobered, and prudently
trotted to his master's door, at which he whinnied with much clamour for
admission.

Bless me, my dear, exclaims Mrs. P. our nag's ghost is at the door--I know
him by his whinnies; upon which Mr. Pounce runs with alacrity to the
door, and sure enough there he was--no ghost--but in propriâ personâ
except his skin. In this exigence, the gentleman had four sheep killed
forthwith, and covered the nag with a woollen garment. To make short of
it, the horse rapidly recovered, and bore two tods of wool every year.

From this narration it is proposed to embrace the manifest advantages
which offer themselves for improving the woollen trade--that great staple
of Britain's wealth, in manner following:--

First, then, let an accurate estimate be taken of the number of sheep
annually slaughtered in these kingdoms.

Secondly.--Let proper officers be appointed to collect these skins into
commodious warehouses.

Lastly.--That such a number of horses, mares, and geldings as the said
skins will conveniently cover, be flayed (without fear of Mr. Martin!) and
their backs forthwith enveloped in fleece.

By this arrangement the following benefits will arise to the government
and community:--

1. Every horse whose hide was formerly only useful after death, will then
afford an annual profit by producing two tods of wool yearly, without any
loss to the tanner or shoemaker, who will still necessarily have as many
hides as heretofore.

2. The health of that useful animal the horse, which is probably liable to
more disorders than any other (the human species excepted) will be much
better preserved by woollen than a hairy covering.

3. There will be little occasion for saddles, &c. as the fleece will
afford a very easy seat, much softer than leather, and well adapted for
ladies and invalids.

Lastly.--There will be an annual acquisition of about 40 millions
sterling, from this novel mode of procedure, of which please to accept the
following algebraical demonstration:--

Let _x_ be the unknown quantity; _a_, the horses; _b_, the sheep; then per
simple equations _x_, plus _a_, plus _b_, minus tods, plus sheepskins,
equal one thousand--then minus sheep, plus horses, minus wool, plus tods,
equal one million. Lastly, horses plus sheep, minus hides, plus fleeces,
in all equal forty millions.

    Quod erat demonstrandum.

There, reader, if you are still a sceptic, I cannot help it.

JACOBUS.

       *       *       *       *       *


ANSWER OF THE LONDON STONE.[2]

(_For the Mirror_.)


    Why hast thou mortal, on my slumber broken,
      And dragged my struggling spirit back to earth?
    Though "walls have ears," yet stones have never spoken.
      Why am I made the object of thy mirth?
    Why am I questioned thus to tell my fate,
    And primal use? Yet hear--whilst I relate.

    When time was young, and earth was in her prime,
      Secure I slept within her spacious womb;
    And ages passed--I took no heed of time,
      Until some Druid burst my dismal tomb,
    And dragged me forth amidst the haunts of man.
    And then, indeed my life of woe began.

    And ere great Caesar in triumphant pride,
      Led on by conquest, bade Rome's eagles soar
    To this fair isle; full many a victim died
      Upon my breast, and I was drenched with gore:
    For "midst the tangling horrors of the wood,"
    I stood an altar, stained with human blood.

    I've witnessed scenes, which I now dread to name,
      I've seen the captive bound in wicker rods
    Expire, midst shouts, to feed the sacred flame,
      And glut the fury of offended gods;
    Those days soon passed--the gospel's milder ray
    Dispelled the gloom, and spread a brighter day.

    Then superstition tottered on her throne,
      And hid her head in shades of gloomy night;
    Quenched were her fires--her impious fanes o'er thrown,
      Her mists dispersed before the Prince of Light,
    Then sank my grandeur; in some lonely spot
    I slept for years unnoticed and forgot.

    Until Vespasian, by Rome's stern command,
      To quench rebellion in my native isle,
    Brought his bold legions from a foreign strand,
      Our land to torture, and our towers to spoil;
    He hewed me in a fashion now unknown,
    And dubbed me, what I am, "The London Stone."

    From me, the miles by Britons once were counted,
      Close to my side were monies lent and paid;
    If princes died--some gaudy herald mounted
      Upon my head, and proclamations read;
    Till Gresham rose; who used me very ill,
    He moved the place of commerce to Cornhill.

    When reeling homewards from the tavern near,
      Oft with prince Henry has old honest Jack
    Sat on my breast, and I've been doomed to hear
      Him talk of valour, and of unpaid sack;
    And whilst he talked, the roysterers gave vent,
    To peals of laughter and of merriment.

    Yes, I'm the hone that "City's Lord" essayed,
      To make the whetstone of his rebel sword;
    On me, with mischief rife, rebellious Cade
      Sat whilst he thought and dubbed himself a Lord;
    And bade my conduit pipe for one whole year
    At city's cost, run naught but claret clear.[3]

    I could a tale of harrowing woes reveal,
      Whilst York and Lancaster for mastery tried:
    When men the ties of nature ceased to feel,
      When sires beneath their offsprings' sabres died;
    And sires 'gainst children clad themselves in arms,
    And England mourned the din of war's alarms.

    Yes, I beheld the beauteous virgin queen,
      And all the dauntless heroes of her court;
    Where danger threatened, 'midst the danger seen,
      Bending their fearless way to Tilbury Fort;
    I heard the shouts of joy which Britons gave,
    When th' Armada sank beneath the wave.

    I mind, Augusta,[4] well that fatal day,
      When to thy ports with dire contagion fraught.
    The laden vessel[5] stemmed its gallant way.
      And to thy sons the plague disastrous brought;
    Quick through thy walls the foul infection spread,
    And thou became the city of the dead.

    Scarce ceased the plague--when to my aching sight
      Appeared a scene of most terrific woe;
    Around me burnt one monstrous blaze of light,
      I warmed, and almost melted with its glow;
    I burst the chains,[6] which bound me fast, asunder,
    And now remain, to learned men a wonder.

    And when the city from her ruins rose,
      I soon was left deserted and forlorn;
    A porters' bench was raised beneath my nose.
      And I became the object of their scorn:
    I've heard the rascals, with a vacant stare,
    Ask, just like you, what business I had there?

    Few years have passed, since I, by parish sages,
      Was called a monstrous nuisance to the street,
    And, though I'd borne the brunt of varying ages,
      Was doomed for pavement 'neath the horses' feet,
    Until a Maiden,[7] near to Sherborne Lane,
    Saved me--and rescued London from that stain.

    And now, vain mortal, I have told thee all,
      My fate, my primal use, the what and which;
    And though my struggling spirit owned thy salt,
      Once more I'll slumber in my holy niche,
    And "Britain's sun may set," what's that to me,
    Since I, stone-blind and dumb, for aye will be.

                                              J.E.

    [2] See _Ode to London Stone_. MIRROR, No. 357, p. 114.

    [3] See Shakspeare's Henry VI., part 2, act 4, scene 6.

    [4] The ancient name for London.

    [5] The cause of the great plague in 1665, was ascribed to the
        importation of infected goods from Holland, where the plague
        had committed great ravages the preceding year.

    [6] Stowe in his history describes the London Stone, "fixed in
        the ground very deep, fastened with bars of iron and otherwise,
        so strongly set that if carts do runne against it through
        negligence, the wheels be broken, and the stone itself unshaken."
        See No. 64 of the Mirror for an account of London Stone.

    [7] When the church of St. Swithin was repaired in 1798, some of
        the parishioners declared the London Stone a nuisance which
        ought to be removed. Fortunately, one gentleman, Thomas Maiden,
        of Sherborne Laue, interfered and rescued it from annihilation,
        and caused it to be placed in its present situation.

       *       *       *       *       *


HAVER BREAD.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.)


A correspondent wishes to be informed of the definition of the word
_avver_. In the 15th volume of the "Beauties of England and Wales," it is
alluded to thus:--"This county (Westmoreland) being supposed unfavourable
to the growth of wheat, black oats, called _haver_, and the species of
barley called _bere_, or _bigg_, were the only grains it produced. Of the
_haver_, bread was made, or the species of pottage called hasty pudding;
this bread being made into thin unleavened cakes, and laid up in chests
within the influence of the fire, has the quality of preserving its
sweetness for several months; it is still in common use. The _bigg_ was
chiefly made into malt, and each family brewed its own ale; during the hay
harvest the women drank a pleasant sharp beverage, made by infusing mint
or sage buttermilk in whey, and hence called _whey-whig_. Wheaten bread
was used on particular occasions; small loaves of it were given to persons
invited to funerals, which they were expected "to take and eat" at home,
in religious remembrance of their deceased neighbour; a custom, the
prototype of which is evidently seen in the establishment of the
eucharist, for in this county it still bears its _Saxon name_, _Arvel
bread_, from appull, _full of reverence_, meaning the holy bread used at
the communion."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *


BATTLE OF QUATRE BRAS.


Gray, as one of the party of dragoons who attended the Duke of Wellington,
proceeded onward at a sharp pace through the marching columns, which his
grace examined, with a close but quick glance, as he passed on, and after
a march of seven leagues, came up with the Belgian troops under the Prince
of Orange, who had been attacked and pushed back by the French. It was
about seven o'clock; none of the British troops had yet arrived within
some hours' march of the duke. The party of dragoons were ordered to
remain in readiness for duty in a cornfield near the road, on a rising
ground, which commanded a full view of the country in front, while the
duke and his staff proceeded to the left.

The four biscuits which had been served out to each man at Brussels the
night before, with some cold beef, and the contents of their canteen,
helped to regale the dragoons after their long and rapid march, while the
stout steeds that had borne them found a delightful repast in the high rye
that waved under their noses. Here they beheld passing on the road beside
them many wounded Belgians, and could see before them, at the distance of
a quarter of a mile, the French bayonets glistening over the high fields
of corn, and hear distinctly the occasional discharges of musketry from
tirailleurs. Gray's heart leaped with joy, and he thought no more of
Brussels.

"What's this place called?" inquired one of the dragoons, generally of his
comrades.

"Called!--Oh, some jaw-breaking Dutch name of a yard long, I suppose,"
replied another. "Ax Gentleman Gray--he'll tell you."

"Well, Mr. Gray, do you know the name of this here place?"

"I believe," replied Gray, "we are near a point called _Quatre Bras_, or
the four roads."

"Well," rejoined the other, "if there were half-a-dozen roads, it wouldn't
be too much for these here Flemingers--yon road's not wide enough for
them, you see. Look, here's a regiment o' them coming back!"

"Ah! poor fellows--we might be in the same situation," observed Gray;
"remember that their force is not strong in comparison with the French, by
the accounts that have been received; better to fall back at the first of
a fight than at the last."

"I say, Jack," said another, with his mouth full of biscuit, "did you ever
meet with such a devil of a roadster as the _carpolar_ there with the
glazed cocked hat?"

"Who do you mean?" said Jack.

"Why the dook, to be sure--how he _did_ give it us on the long road
through the forest."

"Ay--he's the lad; well, here's God bless his jolly old glazed hat any
way," cried the trooper, swallowing a horn of grog; "he's the boy what has
come from the Peninsula just to gi' 'em a leaf out of his book. He was a
dancing last night--riding like a devil all the morning--and I'll warrant
he'll be fighting all the afternoon by way of refreshing himself."

"He look'd serious enough this morning though, Master Tom, as he was
turning out."

"Serious! and so did you; hasn't he enough to make him look serious? Bony,
and all the flower of the French before him. I like to see him look
serious; he's just a thinking a bit, that's all. Look, look, look! where
he is now pelting away up the hill there. My eye! but he's a rum on'."

"Ay, just as he was in the ould ground," cried an Hibernian. "'Pon my
sowl, I think I'm in Spain agin. There he is, success to him!--an' the
smell o' the powther too so natural."

"The light troops are pushing on towards that wood," said Gray, fixing his
eyes on a particular spot.

"Sure enough they are. Ah! we'll soon have the boys up who will set them
off with a flea in their ear."

"Look--on the rising ground there, about half a mile away, how they are
moving about--that is a train of artillery--see the guns--there is a
regiment of infantry going to the left--do you see their bayonets? A fine
open place here for a battle."

"Not so good as that which we passed--the plain fields we crossed
immediately after we left the forest of Soignes," said Gray: "however,
that little wood on our right, in front, which runs along the road, is a
good flank, and the village before us is a strong point."

"Ay, but you see the Belgian troops couldn't keep it; the French have
pushed them out of it."

"We'll soon have it again, I'll warrant; our men have a fine open ground
here, to give the French a lesson in dancing," cried the corporal of the
party, throwing himself down on his back in the corn. "Here I'll lie and
rest myself; and I don't think I shall be disturb'd by the buzzing of the
blue flies! I'll have a snooze, until the Highlanders shall come up."

The party remained undisturbed, as the last speaker had intimated, until
about half-past one o'clock; nothing having been done in the way of attack
by the French. During the interval, Gray employed himself in watching
closely the scene around him, and mentally discussing the chances of the
now inevitably approaching fight.

The hour of struggle was near--the pibroch burst upon the ears of the
troopers, and up they started.

"Here they come," cried one.--"Here they come," cried another--"the
gallant 42nd; look at the petticoat-devils, how they foot it along!"

All stood on the highest part of the ground, to witness the arrival of the
troops, who were now within a quarter of a mile of them on the main road.
A hum arose. Belgian officers galloped down the road, and across the
fields in all directions; the duke was seen riding towards his expected
soldiers, and the scene was life at all points. The pibroch's sound grew
louder; and now the bands of the more distant regiments were heard; and
the harmonious bugles of the rifle corps, mingled their sounds with the
others. The long red line of Britons is fully before the sight, like a
giant stream of blood on the ripe and mellow bosom of the earth. Picton is
at its head, and the duke greets the heroic partner of his glory. The
first of the regiments passes close to the troopers, and receives a cheer
from them, which found a return in the relaxing muscles of the hardy
Scots.

"What corps is that?" inquired one of the group.

