  Can artist paint the fiery glints
    Of this quaint finger here beside it,
  With amber nail,--the lustrous tints,
    A thousand Partagas have dyed it?

  "And this old silver patched affair?"
    Well, sir, that meerschaum has its reasons
  For showing marks of time and wear;
    For in its smoke through fifty seasons

  My grandsire blew his cares away!
    And then, when done with life's sojourning,
  At seventy-five dropped dead one day,
    That pipe between his set teeth burning!

  "Killed him?" No doubt! it's apt to kill
    In fifty year's incessant using--
  Some twenty pipes a day. And still,
    On that ripe, well-filled, lifetime musing,

  I envy oft so bright a part,--
    To live as long as life's a treasure;
  To die of--not an aching heart,
    But--half a century of pleasure!

  Well, well! I'm boring you, no doubt;
    How these old memories will undo one--
  I see you've let your weed go out;
    That's wrong! Here, light yourself a new one!

CHARLES F. LUMMIS.


ODE TO TOBACCO.


  Thou, who when fears attack
  Bidst them avaunt, and Black
  Care, at the horseman's back
          Perching, unseatest;
  Sweet when the morn is gray;
  Sweet when they've cleared away
  Lunch; and at close of day
          Possibly sweetest!

  I have a liking old
  For thee, though manifold
  Stories, I know, are told
          Not to thy credit:
  How one (or two at most)
  Drops make a cat a ghost,--
  Useless, except to roast--
          Doctors have said it;

  How they who use fusees
  All grow by slow degrees
  Brainless as chimpanzees,
          Meagre as lizards,
  Go mad, and beat their wives,
  Plunge (after shocking lives)
  Razors and carving-knives
          Into their gizzards.

  Confound such knavish tricks!
  Yet know I five or six
  Smokers who freely mix
          Still with their neighbors,--
  Jones, who, I'm glad to say,
  Asked leave of Mrs. J.,
  Daily absorbs a clay
          After his labors.

  Cats may have had their goose
  Cooked by tobacco juice;
  Still, why deny its use
          Thoughtfully taken?
  We're not as tabbies are;
  Smith, take a fresh cigar!
  Jones, the tobacco jar!
          Here's to thee, Bacon!

C.S. CALVERLY.


ON RECEIPT OF A RARE PIPE.


  I lifted off the lid with anxious care,
    Removed the wrappages, stripe after stripe,
  And when the hidden contents were laid bare,
    My first remark was: "Mercy, what a pipe!"

  A pipe of symmetry that matched its size,
    Mounted with metal bright,--a sight to see;
  With the rich amber hue that smokers prize,
    Attesting both its age and pedigree.

  A pipe to make the royal Friedrich jealous,
    Or the great Teufelsdröckh with envy gripe!
  A man should hold some rank above his fellows
    To justify his smoking such a pipe!

  What country gave it birth? What blest of cities
    Saw it first kindle at the glowing coal?
  What happy artist murmured, "Nunc dimittis,"
    When he had fashioned this transcendent bowl?

  Has it been hoarded in a monarch's treasures?
    Was it a gift of peace, or prize of war?
  Did the great Khalif in his "House of Pleasures"
    Wager and lose it to the good Zaafar?

  It may have soothed mild Spenser's melancholy,
    While musing o'er traditions of the past,
  Or graced the lips of brave Sir Walter Raleigh,
    Ere sage King Jamie blew his "_Counterblast_."

  Did it, safe hidden in some secret cavern,
    Escape that monarch's pipoclastic ken?
  Has Shakespeare smoked it at the Mermaid Tavern,
    Quaffing a cup of sack with rare old Ben?

  Ay, Shakespeare might have watched his vast creations
    Loom through its smoke,--the spectre-haunted Thane,
  The Sisters at their ghostly invocations,
    The jealous Moor, and melancholy Dane.

  Round its orbed haze and through its mazy ringlets,
    Titania may have led her elfin rout,
  Or Ariel fanned it with his gauzy winglets,
    Or Puck danced in the bowl to put it out.

  Vain are all fancies,--questions bring no answer;
    The smokers vanish, but the pipe remains;
  He were indeed a subtle necromancer,
    Could read their records in its cloudy stains.

  Nor this alone. Its destiny may doom it
    To outlive e'en its use and history;
  Some ploughman of the future may exhume it
    From soil now deep beneath the Eastern sea.

  And, treasured by soma antiquarian Stultus,
    It may to gaping visitors be shown
  Labelled: "The symbol of some ancient cultus
    Conjecturally Phallic, but unknown."

  Why do I thus recall the ancient quarrel
    Twixt Man and Time, that marks all earthly things?
  Why labor to re-word the hackneyed moral
    [Greek: Hôs phyllôn geneê], as Homer sings?
    '[Omega][sigmaf] [phi][upsilon][lambda][lambda][omega][nu]
          [gamma][epsilon][nu][epsilon][eta], as Homer sings?

  For this: Some links we forge are never broken;
    Some feelings claim exemption from decay;
  And Love, of which this pipe is but the token,
    Shall last, though pipes and smokers pass away.

W.H.B.


MY LITTLE BROWN PIPE.


  I have a little comforter,
    I carry in my pocket:
  It is not any woman's face
    Set in a golden locket;
  It is not any kind of purse;
    It is not book or letter,
  But yet at times I really think
    That it is something better.

  Oh, my pipe, my little brown pipe!
    How oft, at morning early,
  When vexed with thoughts of coming toil,
    And just a little surly,
  I sit with thee till things get clear,
    And all my plans grow steady,
  And I can face the strife of life
    With all my senses steady.

  No matter if my temper stands
    At stormy, fair, or clearing,
  My pipe has not for any mood
    A word of angry sneering.
  I always find it just the same,
    In care, or joy, or sorrow,
  And what it is to-day I know
    It's sure to be to-morrow.

  It helps me through the stress of life;
    It balances my losses;
  It adds a charm to all my joys,
    And lightens all my crosses.
  For through the wreathing, misty veil
    Joy has a softer splendor,
  And life grows sweetly possible,
    And love more truly tender.

  Oh, I have many richer joys!
    I do not underrate them,
  And every man knows what I mean,
    I do not need to state them.
  But this I say,--I'd rather miss
    A deal of what's called pleasure,
  Than lose my little comforter,
    My little smoky treasure.

AMELIA E. BARR.


  Forsaken of all comforts but these two,--
    My fagot and my pipe--I sit to muse
    On all my crosses, and almost excuse
  The heavens for dealing with me as they do.
  When Hope steps in, and, with a smiling brow,
    Such cheerful expectations doth infuse
    As makes me think ere long I cannot choose
  But be some grandee, whatsoe'er I'm now.
    But having spent my pipe, I then perceive
    That hopes and dreams are cousins,--both deceive.
  Then mark I this conclusion in my mind,
    It's all one thing,--both tend into one scope,--
    To live upon Tobacco and on Hope:
  The one's but smoke, the other is but wind.

SIR ROBERT AYTON.


'TWAS OFF THE BLUE CANARIES.


  'Twas off the blue Canary isles,
    A glorious summer day,
  I sat upon the quarter deck,
    And whiffed my cares away;
  And as the volumed smoke arose,
    Like incense in the air,
  I breathed a sigh to think, in sooth,
    It was my last cigar.

  I leaned upon the quarter rail,
    And looked down in the sea;
  E'en there the purple wreath of smoke,
    Was curling gracefully;
  Oh! what had I at such a time
    To do with wasting care?
  Alas! the trembling tear proclaimed
    It was my last cigar.

  I watched the ashes as it came
    Fast drawing toward the end;
  I watched it as a friend would watch
    Beside a dying friend;
  But still the flame swept slowly on;
    It vanished into air;
  I threw it from me,--spare the tale,--
    It was my last cigar.

  I've seen the land of all I love
    Fade in the distance dim;
  I've watched above the blighted heart,
    Where once proud hope hath been;
  But I've never known a sorrow
    That could with that compare,
  When off the blue Canaries
    I smoked my last cigar.

JOSEPH WARREN FABENS.


LATAKIA.


I.

  When all the panes are hung with frost,
  Wild wizard-work of silver lace,
  I draw my sofa on the rug,
  Before the ancient chimney-place.
  Upon the painted tiles are mosques
  And minarets, and here and there
  A blind muezzin lifts his hands,
  And calls the faithful unto prayer.
  Folded in idle, twilight dreams,
  I hear the hemlock chirp and sing,
  As if within its ruddy core
  It held the happy heart of Spring.
  Ferdousi never sang like that,
  Nor Saadi grave, nor Hafiz gay;
  I lounge, and blow white rings of smoke,
  And watch them rise and float away.


II.

  The curling wreaths like turbans seem
  Of silent slaves that come and go,--
  Or Viziers, packed with craft and crime,
  Whom I behead from time to time,
  With pipe-stem, at a single blow.
  And now and then a lingering cloud
  Takes gracious form at my desire,
  And at my side my lady stands,
  Unwinds her veil with snowy hands,--
  A shadowy shape, a breath of fire!

  O Love, if you were only here
  Beside me in this mellow light,
  Though all the bitter winds should blow,
  And all the ways be choked with snow,
  'Twould be a true Arabian night!

T.B. ALDRICH.


MY AFTER-DINNER CLOUD.


  Some sombre evening, when I sit
    And feed in solitude at home,
  Perchance an ultra-bilious fit
    Paints all the world an orange chrome.

  When Fear and Care and grim Despair
    Flock round me in a ghostly crowd,
  One charm dispels them all in air,--
    I blow my after-dinner cloud.

  'Tis melancholy to devour
    The gentle chop in loneliness.
  I look on six--my prandial hour--
    With dread not easy to express.

  And yet for every penance done,
    Due compensation seems allow'd.
  My penance o'er, its price is won,--
    I blow my after-dinner cloud.

  My clay is _not_ a Henry Clay,--
    I like it better on the whole;
  And when I fill it, I can say,
    I drown my sorrows in the bowl.

  For most I love my lowly pipe
    When weary, sad, and leaden-brow'd;
  At such a time behold me ripe
    To blow my after-dinner cloud.

  As gracefully the smoke ascends
    In columns from the weed beneath,
  My friendly wizard, Fancy, lends
    A vivid shape to every wreath.

  Strange memories of life or death
    Up from the cradle to the shroud,
  Come forth as, with enchanter's breath,
    I blow my after-dinner cloud.

  What wonder if it stills my care
    To quit the present for the past,
  And summon back the things that were,
    Which only thus in vapor last?

  What wonder if I envy not
    The rich, the giddy, and the proud,
  Contented in this quiet spot
    To blow my after-dinner cloud?

HENRY S. LEIGH.


THE HAPPY SMOKING-GROUND.


  When that last pipe is smoked at last
    And pouch and pipe put by,
  And Smoked and Smoker both alike
    In dust and ashes lie,
  What of the Smoker? Whither passed?
    Ah, will he smoke no more?
  And will there be no golden cloud
    Upon the golden shore?
  Ah! who shall say we cry in vain
    To Fate upon his hill,
  For, howsoe'er we ask and ask,
    He goes on smoking still.
  But, surely, 'twere a bitter thing
    If other men pursue
  Their various earthly joys again
    Beyond that distant blue,
  If the poor Smoker might not ply
    His peaceful passion too.
  If Indian braves may still up there
    On merry scalpings go,
  And buried Britons rise again
    With arrow and with bow,
  May not the Smoker hope to take
    His "cutty" from below?
  So let us trust; and when at length
    You lay me 'neath the yew,
  Forget not, O my friends, I pray,
    Pipes and tobacco too!

RICHARD LE GALLIENNE.


SWEET SMOKING PIPE.


  Sweet smoking pipe; bright glowing stove,
    Companion still of my retreat,
  Thou dost my gloomy thoughts remove,
    And purge my brain with gentle heat.

  Tobacco, charmer of my mind,
    When, like the meteor's transient gleam.
  Thy substance gone to air I find,
    I think, alas, my life's the same!

  What else but lighted dust am I?
    Then shew'st me what my fate will be;
  And when thy sinking ashes die,
    I learn that I must end like thee.

ANON.


CIGARETTE RINGS.


  How it blows! How it rains! I'll not turn out to-night;
  I'm too sleepy to read and too lazy to write;
  So I'll watch the blue rings, as they eddy and twirl,
  And in gossamer wreathings coquettishly curl.
  In the stillness of night and the sparseness of chimes
  There's a fleetness in fancy, a frolic in rhymes;
  There's a world of romance that persistently clings
  To the azurine curving of Cigarette Rings!

  What a picture comes back from the passed-away times!
  They are lounging once more 'neath the sweet-scented limes;
  See how closely he watches the Queen of Coquettes,
  As her white hands roll deftly those small cigarettes!
  He believes in her smiles and puts faith in her sighs
  While he's dazzled by light from her fathomless eyes.
  Ah, the dearest of voices delightfully sings
  Through the wind intertwining of Cigarette Rings!

  How sweet was her song in the bright summer-time,
  When winds whispered low 'neath the tremulous lime!
  How sweet, too, that bunch of forget-me-nots blue--
  The love he thought lasting, the words he thought true!
  _Ah, the words of a woman concerning such things_
  _Are weak and unstable as Cigarette Rings!_

J. ASHBY-STERRY.


SMOKING SPIRITUALIZED.


    The following old poem was long ascribed, on apparently
    sufficient grounds, to the Rev. Ralph Erskine, or, as he
    designated himself, "Ralph Erskine, V.D.M." The peasantry
    throughout the North of England always called it "Erskine
    Song;" and not only is his name given as the author in
    numerous chap-books, but in his own volume of "Gospel
    Sonnets," from an early copy of which this version is
    transcribed. The discovery, however, by Mr. Collier of the
    First Part in a MSS. temp. James I., with the initials "G.W."
    affixed to it, has disposed of Erskine's claim to the honor of
    the entire authorship. G.W. is supposed to be George
    Wither; but this is purely conjectural, and it is not at
    all improbable that G.W. really stands for W.G., as it was
    a common practice among anonymous writers to reverse their
    initials.

    The history, then, of the poem seems to be this: that the
    First Part, as it is now printed, originally constituted the
    whole production, being complete in itself; that the Second
    Part was afterwards added by the Rev. Ralph Erskine, and that
    both parts came subsequently to be ascribed to him, as his
    was the only name published in connection with the song. See
    "Ballads of the Peasantry," Bell's edition. Variants of
    this song will be found on pages 86 and 150 of the present
    collection; the first is ascribed to George Wither, and
    the other is taken from the first volume of "Pills to purge
    Melancholy."


PART I.

  This Indian weed, now withered quite.
  Tho' green at noon, cut down at night,
        Shows thy decay,
        All flesh is hay:
  Thus think, and smoke tobacco.

  The pipe, so lily-like and weak,
  Does thus thy mortal state bespeak;
        Thou art e'en such--
        Gone with a touch:
  Thus think, and smoke tobacco.

  And when the smoke ascends on high,
  Then thou behold'st the vanity
        Of worldly stuff--
        Gone with a puff:
  Thus think, and smoke tobacco.

