I enjoyed myself very much lookin at the Egyptian mummays, the
Greek vasis, etc, but it occurd to me there was rayther too many
"Roman antiquitys of a uncertin date."  Now, I like the British
Mooseum, as I said afore, but when I see a lot of erthen jugs and
pots stuck up on shelves, and all "of a uncertin date," I'm at a
loss to 'zackly determin whether they are a thousand years old or
was bought recent.  I can cry like a child over a jug one
thousand years of age, especially if it is a Roman jug; but a jug
of a uncertin date doesn't overwhelm me with emotions.  Jugs and
pots of a uncertin age is doubtles vallyable property, but, like
the debentures of the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway, a man
doesn't want too many of them.

I was debarred out of the great readin-room.  A man told me I
must apply by letter for admission, and that I must get somebody
to testify that I was respectable.  I'm a little 'fraid I
shan't get in there.  Seein a elderly gentleman, with a
beneverlent-lookin face near by, I venturd to ask him if he would
certifythat I was respectable.  He said he certainly would not,
but he would put me in charge of a policeman, if that would do me
any good.  A thought struck me.  "I refer you to 'Mr. Punch'," I
said.

"Well," said a man, who had listened to my application, "you HAVE
done it now!  You stood some chance before."

I will get this infamus wretch's name before you go to press, so
you can denounce him in the present number of your excellent
journal.

The statute of Apollo is a pretty slick statute.  A young yeoman
seemed deeply imprest with it.  He viewd it with silent
admiration.  At home, in the beautiful rural districks where the
daisy sweetly blooms, he would be swearin in a horrible manner at
his bullocks, and whacking 'em over the head with a hayfork; but
here, in the presence of Art, he is a changed bein.

I told the attendant that if the British nation would stand the
expens of a marble bust of myself, I would willingly sit to some
talented sculpist.

"I feel," I said, "that this is a dooty I owe to posterity."

He said it was hily prob'l, but he was inclined to think that the
British nation wouldn't care to enrich the Mooseum with a bust of
me, altho' he venturd to think that if I paid for one myself it
would be accepted cheerfully by Madam Tussaud, who would give it
a prom'nent position in her Chamber of Horrers. The young man was
very polite, and I thankt him kindly.

After visitin the Refreshment room and partakin of half a chicken
"of a uncertin age," like the Roman antiquitys I have previsly
spoken of, I prepared to leave.  As I passed through the animal
room I observed with pane that a benevolint person was urgin the
stufft elephant to accept a cold muffin, but I did not feel
called on to remostrate with him, any more than I did with two
young persons of diff'rent sexes who had retired behind the
Rynosserhoss to squeeze each other's hands.  In fack, I rayther
approved of the latter proceedin, for it carrid me back to the
sunny spring-time of MY life.  I'm in the shear and yeller leaf
now, but I don't forgit the time when to squeeze my Betsy's hand
sent a thrill through me like fellin off the roof of a two-story
house; and I never squozed that gentle hand without wantin to do
so some more, and feelin that it did me good.

                                         Trooly yours,
                                                    Artemus Ward.