Produced by Stan Goodman, Virginia Paque, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


      [Ilustración: _JUAN EUGENIO HARTZENBUSCH_]


      Heath's Modern Language Series


      LOS AMANTES DE TERUEL

               POR

      JUAN EUGENIO HARTZENBUSCH


      _WITH INTRODUCTION, NOTES, AND VOCABULARY_

               BY

      G.W. UMPHREY, PH.D.

      ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES
      UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON

              1920.


PREFACE

The importance of Hartzenbusch in the history of the Spanish drama and
the enduring popularity in Spain of _Los Amantes de Teruel_, his
masterpiece, have assured this play a definite place in the work of
advanced students of Spanish literature in our universities. For such
students the many editions published in Spain and elsewhere have been
perhaps sufficient, but for the much larger number who never reach the
advanced literary classes an annotated edition is needed. That this play
offers excellent material for the work of more elementary courses in the
schools and colleges has long been the opinion of the present editor;
and that it has not already found a place among the Spanish texts
published in this country is difficult to understand. The old legend of
Teruel, the embodiment of pure and constant love, is one that might well
be expected to make a strong appeal to the youth of any country; the
simple and direct presentation given to the legend by Hartzenbusch and
the comparative freedom from textual difficulties, as the result of the
careful revisions of the play by its scholarly author, bring it within
the range of the understanding and appreciation of students who have
studied Spanish one year in college or two years in high school, if it
is put before them in a properly prepared edition.

The editor has kept in mind this class of students in the preparation of
the Introduction, Notes, and Vocabulary. To those who consider the
Introduction disproportionately long, the excuse is given that this will
be the first Romantic play read by many students, and that if they are
to understand it and appreciate its fine literary qualities, they must
be enabled to view it in its proper historical perspective. It is to be
hoped that this edition may serve as a safe approach to the systematic
study, of the Romantic Movement in Spanish literature.

The text of the play is that of the annotated edition of Dr. Adolf
Kressner, Leipsic, 1887 (_Bibliothek Spanischer Schriftsteller_), and is
the same as the one contained in the definitive collection of the plays
of Hartzenbusch, _Teatro_, Madrid, 1888-1892, Vol. I, pages 7-130
(_Colección de Escritores Castellanos_).

The indebtedness of the editor to Professor E.C. Hills of Indiana
University for many helpful suggestions is gratefully acknowledged.

G.W. UMPHREY

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE.


       TABLE OF CONTENTS


       PREFACE

       INTRODUCTION

    I. The Legend

   II. Authenticity of the Legend

  III. The Legend in Spanish Literature

   IV. Life of Hartzenbusch

    V. Hartzenbusch's Treatment of the Legend

   VI. Romanticism

  VII. Romanticism in _Los Amantes_

 VIII. Versification

       BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

       TEXT

       NOTES

       VOCABULARY


INTRODUCTION


#I. The Legend#. Constancy in love has inspired many writers and has
given undying fame to many legends and traditions. Among the famous
lovers that have passed into legend and that stand as the embodiment of
constant love in different ages and in different countries,--Pyramus and
Thisbe, Hero and Leander, Tristam and Isolde, Romeo and Juliet,--are to
be found Marsilla and Isabel. These _Lovers of Teruel_, as constant as
any of the others, are especially notable because of the purity of their
love and because of the absence of violence in their sudden departure
from this life. Disappointed love, desperate grief at separation, was
the only cause of their death.

The old city of Teruel, founded by the Aragonese in the latter half of
the twelfth century at the junction of the Guadalaviar and the Alfambra
as a stronghold in the territory recently recovered from the Moors, was
the fitting scene for the action of the legend.... The pioneer life of
the city, the depth of sentiment and singleness of purpose of its
Aragonese inhabitants, the crusading spirit that carried to victory the
armies of Peter II of Aragón and his more famous son, James the
Conqueror, lend probability to a legend that would ordinarily be
considered highly improbable from the point of view of historical
authenticity. Stripped of the fantastic details that have gathered about
it in the many literary treatments given to it by Spanish writers, the
legend may be briefly told. In Teruel, at the beginning of the
thirteenth century, lived Juan Diego Martínez Garcés de Marsilla and
Isabel de Segura. They had loved each other from childhood, but when it
became a question of marriage, Isabel's father opposed the union
because of the young man's lack of material resources and because a
wealthy suitor, Rodrigo de Azagra, had presented himself for the hand of
his daughter. All that the entreaties of the lovers could gain from him
was the promise that if Marsilla went to the wars, gained fame and
riches, and returned before a certain day, he would receive Isabel in
marriage. This Marsilla did; but unfortunately he was unable to return
until just after the expiration of the time set. When he reached Teruel,
he found Isabel married to the wealthy rival. Disappointed in their
hopes after so many years of constant love and continual struggle
against adversity, Marsilla died of grief, and Isabel soon followed him;
separated in life by cruel fate, they were united in death. Buried in
the same tomb, they were later disinterred, and their mummified remains
may now be seen in the old church of San Pedro in Teruel.

#II. Authenticity of the Legend#. The earliest references that have
yet been found to the legend belong to the middle of the sixteenth
century, that is, more than three centuries after the supposed death of
the lovers. In 1555, when the church of San Pedro in Teruel was
undergoing some repairs, two bodies, supposedly those of Marsilla and
Isabel, were discovered in one tomb in a remarkably good state of
preservation. They were reburied at the foot of the altar in the chapel
of Saints Cosme and Damian, and the story of the unfortunate lovers
began to spread far and wide. By the end of the century it was
apparently widely known and attracted considerable attention to the old
city of Teruel. When Philip III of Spain was journeying to Valencia in
1599 he was induced to turn aside to visit the church of San Pedro. In
the official account of his journey, "Jornada de Su Majestad Felipe III
y Alteza la Infanta Doña Isabel, desde Madrid, a casarse el Rey con la
Reyna Doña Margarita, y su Alteza con el Archiduque Alberto," the story
of the legend as then generally accepted is related so succinctly that
it may well be quoted here: "En la iglesia de San Pedro, en la capilla
de San Cosme y San Damián, de la dicha ciudad, está la sepultura de los
Amantes que llaman de Teruel; y dicen eran un mancebo y una doncella que
se querían mucho, ella rica y él al contrario; y como él pidiese por
mujer la doncella y por ser pobre no se la diesen, se determinó a ir por
el mundo a adquerir hacienda y ella aguardarle ciertos años, al cabo de
los cuales y dos o tres días más, volvió rico y halló que aquella noche
se casaba la doncella. Tuvo trazas de meterse debajo de su cama y a
media noche le pidió un abrazo, dándose a conocer; ella le dijo que no
podía por no ser ya suya, y él murió luego al punto. Lleváronle a
enterrar, y ella fué al entierro, y cuando le querían echar en la
sepultura, se arrimó a la ataúd y quedó allí muerta; y así los
enterraron juntos en una sepultura, sabido el caso."

Seventeen years later a long epic poem by the secretary of the city
council of Teruel, Juan Yagüe de Salas, aroused much discussion as to
the authenticity of the legend. In 1619 the bodies were again exhumed
and in the coffin of one of them were found written the words "Éste es
Don Diego Juan Martínez de Marsilla"; also a document, "papel de letra
muy antigua," giving the story in detail. This document disappeared, but
the copy that Juan Yagüe claimed to have made may be seen in the
archives of the church of San Pedro or in the transcription published in
the _Semanario Pintoresco_ for the week ending Feb. 5, 1837 (Vol. II,
pages 45-47). The genuineness of the document and its copy is very
doubtful. The first paragraph shows some linguistic peculiarities of old
Aragonese; but these gradually disappear, until there is little left in
the language to differentiate it from that of the good notary public and
poet, Juan Yagüe, who was so anxious to prove authenticity for the
legend treated in his poem. Although there is no reliable evidence that
the bodies exhumed in 1555 and again in 1619 were those of Marsilla and
Isabel, the church of San Pedro has held them in special reverence.
They attract many admirers to the old city on the Guadalaviar and the
tourist who expresses incredulity when shown the remains of the lovers
becomes thereby _persona non grata_ in Teruel.

For three centuries the controversy has continued and has resulted in
the spilling of much ink. The most complete and authoritative study of
the sources and growth of the legend is that of the eminent scholar
Cotarelo y Mori _(Sobre el origen y desarrollo de la leyenda de Los
Amantes de Teruel_, 2d edition, 1907). His conclusions support the
theory that the legend is the result of the localization in Teruel of
the story of the unfortunate Florentine lovers, Girolamo and Salvestra,
as related by Boccaccio in his _Decameron_, Book IV, Novel 8. He refutes
the arguments advanced by the supporters of the authenticity of the
legend, calls attention to the suspicious nature of all the documents,
and maintains the thesis that Boccaccio's story found its way into Spain
toward the end of the fourteenth century and took the form of the legend
of the _Lovers of Teruel_ about the middle of the sixteenth century, at
which time it first appeared definitely in Spanish literature. The
majority of literary critics and historians accept Cotarelo y Mori's
conclusions; others, however, refuse to give up the historic basis of
the legend. They cannot deny, of course, the evident similarity of the
stories; they explain it by saying that the story of the constant lovers
who died in Teruel in 1217 was carried to Italy by Aragonese soldiers or
merchants, was heard by the Italian novelist, and used by him as the
basis for his story of Girolamo and Salvestra.

#III. The Legend in Spanish Literature.# Very few of the famous
legends of the world rest upon documentary evidence, and the fact that
the legend of the _Lovers of Teruel_ lacks historic proof has had little
influence upon its popularity. It has been productive of much
literature, the extent of which is indicated by the two hundred or more
titles contained in the bibliography[l] published by Domingo Gascón y
Guimbao in 1907. Of the many poems, plays, and novels inspired by the
legend only the most noteworthy can be mentioned here. The oldest
literary treatment is apparently that of Pedro de Alventosa, written
about the middle of the sixteenth century, _Historia lastimosa y sentida
de los tiernos amantes Marcilla y Segura_. This was followed in 1566 by
a Latin poem of about five hundred lines by Antonio de Serón, published
in 1907 by Gascón y Guimbao, with a Spanish translation and an excellent
bibliography. In 1581 the legend was given dramatic treatment by Rey de
Artieda, who followed the story in its essential elements but modernized
the action by placing it in the time of Charles V, only forty-six years
earlier than the publication of the play. It has little literary value,
but is important because of its influence on later dramatists. Passing
over various treatments of the theme that serve merely to indicate its
growing popularity, we come to the pretentious epic poem of Juan Yagüe
de Salas in twenty-six cantos, _Los Amantes de Teruel, Epopeya trágica_,
in which, besides adding many fantastic details to the legend, the
author presented much extraneous matter bearing upon the general history
of Teruel. Because of this widely known poem and the growing popularity
of the _Lovers_, two dramatists of the Golden Age, Tirso de Molina and
Pérez de Montalbán, gave it their attention. _Los Amantes de Teruel_ of
the great Tirso de Molina, published in 1635, is disappointing,
considering the dramatic ability of the author; it contains passages of
dramatic effectiveness but is weak in construction. As in Rey de
Artieda's play, the action is placed in the sixteenth century; Marsilla
takes part in the famous expedition of Charles V against the Moors in
Tunis, saves the Emperor's life, and, richly rewarded, returns, too
late, to claim the promised bride. It is a better play than that of
Artieda, but is itself surpassed by Montalbán's play of three years
later. Although he was far from possessing the dramatic genius of Tirso,
Montalbán succeeded in giving the story the form that it was to maintain
on the stage for two centuries. Frequent performances and many editions
of his play, as well as many other literary treatments and references
that might be cited, attest the continued popularity of the legend.

[Footnote 1: _Los Amantes de Teruel, Bibliografía de los Amantes_.
Domingo Gascón y Guimbao, Madrid, 1907.]

Finally, in the early days of Romanticism, it assumed the dramatic form
that has remained most popular down to the present day. On the
nineteenth of January of the year 1837 the theatergoing people of Madrid
were moved to vociferous applause by a new treatment of the old theme,
and a new star of the literary firmament was recognized in the person of
Juan Eugenio Hartzenbusch. In his dramatic masterpiece Hartzenbusch
eclipsed all the other plays that have dealt with the legend, and more
than twenty editions stand as proof of its continued popularity. Besides
these many editions of the play, numerous novels, poems, and operas have
appeared from time to time. For the most complete bibliography down to
1907 the reader is again referred to that of the official historian of
Teruel, Gascón y Guimbao. We must now turn our attention to the author
of the best dramatic treatment of the legend.

#IV. Life of Hartzenbusch#. Juan Eugenio Hartzenbusch, born in 1806,
was the only son of a German cabinet-maker who had wandered to Spain
from his home near Cologne, married a Spanish girl, and opened up a shop
in Madrid. The son inherited from his German father and Spanish mother
traits of character that were exemplified later in his life and
writings. From his father he received a fondness for meditation,
conscientious industry in acquiring sound scholarship, and the patience
needed for the continual revision of his plays; from his mother came his
ardent imagination and love of literature. Childhood and youth were for
him a period of disappointment and struggle against adversity. Less than
two years old when his mother died after a short period of insanity
caused by the sight of bloodshed in the turbulent streets of Madrid in
1808, he was left to the care of a brooding father who had little
sympathy with his literary aspirations, but who did wish to give him the
best education he could afford. He received a common school education
and was permitted to spend the four years from 1818 to 1822 in the
College of San Isidro. As a result of the political troubles in Spain in
1823, the father's business, never very prosperous, fell away and the
son had to leave college to help in the workshop. He was thus compelled
to spend a large part of his time in making furniture, although his
inclination was toward literature.

His leisure was given to study and to the acquirement of a practical
knowledge of the dramatic art, gained for the most part from books,
because of his father's dislike of the theater and because of the lack
of money for any unnecessary expenditure. He translated several French
and Italian plays, adapted others to Spanish conditions, and recast
various _comedias_ of the _Siglo de Oro_, with a view to making them
more suitable for presentation. He tried his hand also at original
production and succeeded in getting some of his plays on the stage, only
to have them withdrawn almost immediately. Undiscouraged by repeated
failure, he continued studying and writing, more determined than ever to
become a successful dramatist and thus realize the ambition that was
kindled in him by the first dramatic performance that he had witnessed
when he had already reached manhood.

At the time of his marriage in 1830 he was still helping his ailing and
despondent father in the workshop; more interested undoubtedly in his
literary pursuits, but ever faithful to the call of duty. Until success
as a dramatist made it possible for him to gain a living for his family
by literature, he continued patiently his manual labor. At his father's
death he closed the workshop and for a short time became dependent for
a livelihood on stenography, with which he had already eked out the
slender returns from the labor of his hands.

Meanwhile, during these last years of apprenticeship in which
Hartzenbusch was gaining complete mastery of his art by continual study
and practice, the literary revolution known as Romanticism was making
rapid progress. The death of the despotic Ferdinand VII in 1833 removed
the restraint that had been imposed upon literature as well as upon
political ideas. The theories of the French and English Romanticists
were penetrating Spanish literary circles, to be taken up eagerly by the
younger dramatists; political exiles of high social and literary
prestige, such as Martínez de la Rosa and the Duque de Rivas, were
returning to Spain with plays and poems composed according to the new
theories; the natural reaction from the logical, unemotional ideals of
the Classicists was developing conditions favorable to the revolution.
The first year of the struggle between the two schools of literature,
1834, gave the Romanticists two important victories in the _Conjuración
de Venecia_ of Martinez de la Rosa, and the _Macías_ of José de Larra,
two plays that show clearly Romantic tendencies but that avoid an abrupt
break with the Classical theories. They served to prepare the way for
the thoroughly Romantic play of the Duque de Rivas, _Don Álvaro o la
fuerza del sino_, a magnificent, though disordered, drama that gained
for the Romanticists a decisive victory in 1835, a victory over
Classicism in Spain similar to that gained in Paris five years earlier
by the famous _Hernani_ of Victor Hugo, leader of the French
Romanticists. In 1836 the equally successful performance of _El
Trovador_, the Romantic play of García Gutiérrez, confirmed the victory
gained by the Romanticists with _Don Álvaro_, and gave clear indication
that the literary revolution was complete. The temper of the time was
decidedly Romantic, and the wholehearted applause that resounded through
the Teatro del Príncipe on the night of Jan. 19, 1837, at the first
performance of _Los Amantes de Teruel_ put an end to the long and
laborious apprenticeship of Hartzenbusch.

A few days later the warm reception given the play and its continued
popularity were justified in a remarkable piece of dramatic criticism by
the rival playwright and keen literary critic, José de Larra, known
better by his journalistic pen-name, Fígaro, and greatly feared by his
contemporaries for his mordant criticism and stinging satire. In the
opening words of his review of the play, we may see the highly favorable
attitude of the critic and realize the suddenness of the fame that came
to Hartzenbusch. "Venir a aumentar el número de los vivientes, ser un
hombre más donde hay tantos hombres, oír decir de sí: 'Es un tal
fulano,' es ser un árbol más en una alameda. Pero pasar cinco o seis
lustros oscuro y desconocido, y llegar una noche entre otras, convocar a
un pueblo, hacer tributaria su curiosidad, alzar una cortina, conmover
el corazón, subyugar el juicio, hacerse aplaudir y aclamar, y oír al día
siguiente de sí mismo al pasar por una calle o por el Prado: 'Aquél es
el escritor de la comedia aplaudida,' eso es algo; es nacer; es devolver
al autor de nuestros días por un apellido oscuro un nombre claro; es dar
alcurnia a sus ascendientes en vez de recibirla de ellos."[2] Other
contemporary reviews were just as favorable, and all expressed with
Fígaro great hopes in the career of a dramatist that had thus begun with
an acknowledged masterpiece. The _Semanario Pintoresco_, for example, a
literary magazine in its second year of publication, ended its review of
the play with these words: "El joven que, saliendo de la oscuridad del
taller de un artesano, se presenta en el mundo literario con los Amantes
de Teruel por primera prueba de su talento, hace concebir al teatro
español la fundada esperanza de futuros días de gloria, y de verse
elevado a la altura que un día ocupó en la admiración del mundo
civilizado." (Feb. 5, 1837.)

[Footnote 2: _Obras completas de Fígaro._ Paris, 1889. Vol. III, page
187.]

Thus encouraged by popular applause and by the enthusiastic praise of
literary critics, Hartzenbusch produced at varying intervals many
excellent plays, but none of them surpassed or even equaled his _Amantes
de Teruel_. Many of them, characterized by careful workmanship, dramatic
effectiveness, and fine literary finish, are well worth studying, and
deserve more attention than can be given them here. They offer all kinds
of drama: tragedies such as _Doña Mencía_, in which the exaggerations of
Romanticism are given free rein; historical plays, in which striking
incidents in Spanish history or legend are given dramatic treatment;
fantastic plays, such as _La redoma encantada_, in which magic plays an
important part; comedies of character and manners, such as _La coja y el
encogido_, in which contemporary life found humorous presentation. The
best of them may be read in the three volumes published in the
well-known series _Colección de Escritores Castellanos_. For literary
criticism the student is referred to the books mentioned later in the
bibliography.

The love of study grew stronger in Hartzenbusch as the opportunity to
devote himself to it became greater, so that after he had had several
plays presented with considerable success, scholarship began to absorb
more and more of his time and the intervals between plays began to
lengthen. Literary criticism, editorial work in connection with new
editions of the Spanish classics, his duties as assistant and, later,
chief librarian of the Biblioteca Nacional, these, with the production
from time to time of a new play, made him a well-known figure in the
literary life of Madrid. His was the quiet life of the modern man of
letters, to whom the incidents of greatest interest are of the
intellectual order: the production of a new play, the publication of a
new book of literary or scholarly value, the discovery of an old
manuscript or the announcement of a new theory, the admission of a new
member to the Spanish Academy. Serenely tolerant in his outlook upon
life, of gentle disposition and ready sympathy, unaffectedly modest,
indifferent to the accumulation of property beyond the needs of his
simple mode of living, conscientious in the performance of all his
duties, he retained to the end of his life the personal esteem of his
many friends. When death put an end in 1880 to the long illness that
saddened the last years of his life, his mortal remains were conducted
to the tomb with all due ceremony by the Spanish Academy, to which
membership had been granted him in 1847 as a recognition of his
excellent work as dramatist and scholar.

The productivity of Hartzenbusch, as well as his versatility, would be
remarkable in any country but Spain. The _Bibliografía de Hartzenbusch_,
prepared by his son and published in 1900,[3] stands as proof of the
great extent and diversity of his productions; four hundred pages are
needed for the bibliographical data connected with his many publications
and for a few extracts from his unpublished writings. Hundreds of titles
of dramas, poems, addresses, essays, literary criticism, scholarly
commentaries, indicate the versatility of his talent and his tireless
industry.

[Footnote 3: _Bibliografía de Hartzenbusch_. Eugenio Hartzenbusch.
Madrid, 1900.]

#V. Hartzenbusch's Treatment of the Legend.# Apparently Hartzenbusch
had given much study and thought to the famous legend of the _Lovers of
Teruel_. At first it was his intention to use it in an historical novel,
but only the first few pages of this have been preserved (_Bibliografía
de Hartzenbusch_). Believing that the legend could be better treated in
dramatic form, he applied himself enthusiastically to the construction
of the play in accordance with the new theories that were becoming
popular, and had it ready for production when a copy of José de Larra's
_Macías_ came into his hands. What was his astonishment to find that the
plot of his play was so similar to that of _Macías_ that no one would be
likely to accept the similarity as a mere coincidence. Patiently he
reconstructed it and had it published in 1836, if the date on the title
page of the oldest edition is to be accepted as accurate.[4] If
published in 1836, the author remained in obscurity until the first
performance of the play, January 19 of the following year, made him
famous.

[Footnote 4: _Los Amantes de Teruel_, drama en cinco actos en prosa y
verso por Juan Eugenio Hartzenbusch. Madrid. Imprenta de D. José María
Repullés. 1836.]

Many difficulties beset the dramatist in the construction of the play.
The legend that served as plot was already known to all, so that the
element of suspense could not be used to any great extent. Moreover, the
climax was not in itself dramatic; the death of two lovers through grief
at separation, pathetic though it be, lacked the tragic element of other
similar stories in which death resulted from violence. The _dénouement_,
the probability of which would not be generally accepted, had to be
retained in the treatment of a legend so widely known, a legend in which
the essential originality consisted in this very improbability. Careful
preparation throughout the whole play was needed, then, for this
improbable _dénouement_, pathetic, rather than tragic; dramatic
incidents had to be supplied by the author's own inventiveness, the
characters had to be carefully delineated, the motivation carefully
considered. How successfully the author was able to overcome these
difficulties, with what dramatic skill he was able to succeed where
dramatists such as Tirso de Molina and Montalbán were only partially
successful, careful study of the play will reveal.

The play as given in this edition differs in many ways from the play as
first presented in 1837. More than once the author returned to it, and
the numerous editions needed to supply the popular and continuous demand
gave him the opportunity to revise it and give it the most artistic
finish of which he was capable. Changed literary conditions after
Romanticism had run its course are reflected in the more sober dress of
the revised play; there are reflected in it, too, the greater
restraint, the more scholarly and critical attention to character
delineation and literary finish befitting a man who had passed from the
warm impulsiveness of youth to the calm rationality of middle age. The
student who takes the trouble to compare the text of this edition with
that of the first will see many changes: the five acts are reduced to
four; some of the prose scenes are now in poetic form; the diction is
much improved generally and obscure passages are made clear; some
changes in motivation are to be noted, especially in the scenes leading
up to the voluntary marriage of Isabel with Azagra; the mother's
character is notably ennobled. On the whole, the play has gained by
these revisions; what it has lost in freshness and spontaneity has been
more than counterbalanced by the more careful delineation of character,
improved motivation of action, correctness of diction, and literary
finish. The play in its first form is undoubtedly a better example of
Romanticism in all its phases, its tendencies toward exaggeration, its
crudities of thought and expression, combined with qualities unsurpassed
in any other period of literature; in its revised form it is a more
artistic production, is still a Romantic play, and one of the best in
Spanish literature.

#VI. Romanticism.# Generally speaking, an author belongs to his own
age and country, is moved by the prevalent ideas and sentiments; his
outlook upon life is similar to that of the majority of his
contemporaries. Ordinarily then, a piece of literature of a past age is
understood and fully appreciated only by the student who is able to view
it in its proper historical perspective, to see it through the eyes of
those for whom it was written. Especially is this true of Romantic
literature, the production of ardent and youthful enthusiasts who found
themselves suddenly emancipated from the rigid rules and formalism of
French pseudo-Classicism of the eighteenth century. The tendency in
literature, as in political and social life, is to pass in a pendulum
swing from one extreme to the other, so that to appreciate the fine and
enduring qualities of Romantic literature and to make due allowance for
its exaggerations and other apparent faults, the student must know
something of the Romantic movement and of the Classicism that
immediately preceded it. Moreover, his purpose in reading a literary
masterpiece is not merely to understand and appreciate it in itself, but
also to gain through it some understanding of the age or literary
movement of which it is a representative. In order, then, that _Los
Amantes de Teruel_ may be more fully appreciated as a dramatic
masterpiece, and in order that through it the student may come to a
fuller understanding of Romanticism, his attention is now directed to
the essential characteristics of this important literary movement.

Romanticism in Spanish literature is the name given to the literary
revolt that began about 1830 against pseudo-Classicism. A similar revolt
had already freed the other literatures of Europe, so that the many
Spanish exiles who had been forced to seek refuge for political reasons
in England or on the Continent there became familiar with the new ideas
in literature. Ardent converts to the new literary ideals, these
political exiles, when permitted to return to Spain at the death of the
despotic Ferdinand VII in 1833, became the leaders in a literary
revolution that soon swept away all opposition. The logical reaction
from the rigid rules and formalism, new ideas in political and social
life weakened opposition so rapidly and effectively that the Romantic
poetry and plays of the Duque de Rivas, Espronceda, García Gutiérrez,
Hartzenbusch, and others found a ready and enthusiastic welcome.

In the comparison that is to be made of Romanticism and Classicism,
_romantic_ and _classic_ are to be used in their technical, literary
sense. As ordinarily used, _romantic_ means the extreme opposite of
prosaic or commonplace; in literary history, Romantic is used to
describe the movement known as Romanticism. Classic, in its oldest and
ordinary acceptation, means the best of its class or kind; in its
literary sense, _classic_, or _classical_, is usually applied to the
type of literature that harmonized so completely with eighteenth century
rationalism, the Classicism, or rather pseudo-Classicism, which,
enthroned in France, ruled all literary Europe until the closing years
of the century. In the following comparison, Classic, Classicist, and
Classicism are the opposites of Romantic, Romanticist, and Romanticism.

Romanticism, in its general application to all kinds of literature and
to the literatures of all countries where it made itself effectively
felt, shows the following characteristics:

1. _Subjectivity_, the introduction of the personal note, the expression
by the author of his own individual feelings and ideas. The Classicist,
aiming at universality and completeness, considered only the typical and
eternal as suitable material for literature and carefully excluded
whatever seemed peculiar to himself; his ideal was to give perfect
literary form to ideas and sentiments acceptable to mankind generally,
truths of universal application. Originality of idea or sentiment was
not of prime importance with him; his aim was rather to give finished
form to "what oft was said, but ne'er so well expressed." The aim of the
Romanticist, on the other hand, was to turn to literary uses his own
individual experiences, to give forceful and effective, rather than
elegant, expression to his own peculiar feelings and ideas. This
subjectivity led naturally to many abuses; it also led to the production
of some of the masterpieces of literature. Lyric poetry, that had almost
died of inanition during the period of Classicism, took on new and
vigorous life and became again one of the most important literary
genres. The mere mention of such famous poets as Byron, Shelley, Heine,
Musset, Leopardi, Espronceda, indicates the extent and importance of
lyric poetry in the first half of the nineteenth century.

2. _Emotional appeal_. Classicism made its appeal to the intellect;
Romanticism to the emotions. The aim of the Classicist being to give
perfect literary expression to the accumulated wisdom of mankind or to
reform social, moral, or political conditions by means of ridicule, he
accepted logic as his guide. The Romanticist, whose aim it was to
express his individual sentiments and ideas, rebelled against the
restraints of logic and common sense; his purpose was not to persuade
his reader or hearer by logical reasoning, but rather to carry him off
his feet by the onrush of his passions and sentiments. The Classicist
mistrusted the imagination for fear that it might lead him away from
common sense and moderation; the Romanticist turned to it eagerly as the
most effective means of conveying to reader or hearer his ardent
sentiments and vague aspirations. For the reason then that the
Classicist made his appeal to the intellect, mistrusted the imagination,
and usually avoided all strong passions except that of indignation,
Classicism tended to become more and more prosaic. Romanticism, because
of its appeal to the emotions and to the imagination, put new life and
power into literature, and immeasurably widened its range. On the other
hand the tendency on the part of writers of little ability and less
judgment to go to absurd extremes in their efforts to express strange
and original ideas and sentiments, to get as far away as possible from
the logical and commonplace, led to the production of much absurd
writing. This and the attempt of many of them to apply the extreme
principles of Romanticism to daily life as well as to literature
resulted in the derogatory sense that the word _romantic_ came to have
in its ordinary acceptation. The results of Romanticism in its
exaggerated form may be seen in the satirical article written in 1837 by
Mesonero Romanos, _El Romanticismo y los Románticos_. This article,
highly recommended in this connection, may easily be found in his
collected writings _Obras_, Madrid, 1881, or, better still, it may be
studied in the excellent edition of Professor G.T. Northup, _Selections
from Mesonero Romanos_.

3. _Spiritual awakening_. The latter half of the eighteenth century was
a materialistic age. The realities of life were limited to such as could
be understood by the five senses and the reasoning faculty. Life and
literature for the Classicist meant reasoned submission to things as
they were; achievement was the accepted basis of judgment for his life
or literature. The Romanticist rebelled against this materialistic view
of life; for him the real truths lay beyond the apparent realities; he
grasped at the impalpable and infinite, and wished to have his life and
literature judged by his aspirations, rather than by his achievements.
Hence, too, the vague longings, the gentle melancholy or violent revolt,
the spiritual uplift. The new sense of the wonder and glory of the
universe, as well as the spiritual reality behind the material, has
suggested as a definition of Romanticism the "Renascence of Wonder."

4. _Revival of the Middle Ages and national traditions_. The
Romanticists were inclined to turn away from the prosaic present and to
seek material for their writings in the Middle Ages, the time of
unrestrained feelings and emotions, of chivalrous adventure and romance,
of strong religious faith, of miracles and superstition. The historical
novel, in which the powerful imagination of a Walter Scott made the past
live again, became popular throughout Europe; innumerable dramas sought
their plots in medieval history and legend. Spain, with her rich
literature of popular ballads and drama, a storehouse of picturesque
legends and traditions, attracted the attention of Romanticists
everywhere, so that for Spaniards the movement came to have a patriotic
significance. The best Romanticists did not limit themselves to the
Middle Ages; they broadened their vision to include the whole past of
the human race, whereas the Classicists, fixing their eyes steadily upon
ancient Greece and Rome, whenever they were inclined to turn away from
the present, ignored entirely the medieval period and the early modern.

5. _Picturesqueness_. Seeking to give polished expression to the
probable and typical, the Classicist abhorred exaggeration and violent
contrasts. The Romanticist, on the other hand, was attracted to the
grotesque, mingled the ugly and the beautiful, the commonplace and the
fantastic; he delighted in striking antitheses.

6. _Love of inanimate nature_. The Classicist, instead of going directly
to Nature for individual inspiration, was content to repeat in new ways
the generally accepted ideas regarding natural scenery. His interest lay
almost wholly in mankind, so that inanimate Nature usually served as a
merely conventional background. The Romanticist loved Nature for its own
sake, and many masterpieces of lyric poetry were due to its inspiration.
He loved Nature in all her aspects and moods; if these were grandiose or
violent, the greater was his admiration.

7. _Freedom from rule and conventionality in literary forms and
technique._ The foregoing characteristics, concerned mainly with the
content of Romantic literature, would naturally mean a corresponding
revolution in literary form and technique. Rules and conventions had
kept accumulating about literature, until by the middle of the
eighteenth century, when French Classicism dominated literary Europe,
they were so rigid that only a few of the many men of letters were able
to produce literature that was not wholly artificial and uninspired.
Each kind of literature was supposed to be written in a certain way;
narrative poetry had a certain prescribed meter; lyric poetry another;
tragedy and comedy should be carefully kept apart. The Romanticist
proceeded at once to throw overboard all these rules and
conventionalities. Each literary production was to be judged upon its
own merits as literature, not upon the closeness of its adherence to any
set of rules, and each author was to be at liberty to get his results in
any way that he might choose. Hence we find the mingling of literary
genres, the neglect of the dramatic unities, the invention of new meters
and the revival of old ones.

8. _Richness of language_. Because of the continual elimination of words
considered unsuitable for literary expression, the language of the
Classicists was becoming more and more impoverished, diction was
becoming more and more stereotyped and artificial. The Romanticists,
with their revolutionary ideas as to content, rebelled against any rule
or convention that would restrict their choice of words or diction;
seeking complete and effective self-expression, they turned to literary
use all the resources of the language of their own time and of any other
age as well. The result was a great enrichment of language through the
effective use of highly colored, picturesque words and diction, as fresh
and bright as newly coined pieces of gold.

Such are the general characteristics of the movement that had such a
profound effect upon the literatures of western Europe in the closing
years of the eighteenth century and the first half of the nineteenth.
All of them may be observed in the literature produced in Spain during
the twenty years from 1830 to 1850, although, naturally, they do not all
have the same importance there as in other countries. In a general way
it may be said that the movement was not so revolutionary as in France,
for example, where Classicism had taken deeper root. Moreover, in Spain,
Romanticism meant the revival of some of the literary ideals of the
_Siglo de Oro_, and to this extent at least could hardly be considered
revolutionary. The most complete representative of Romanticism in
Spanish dramatic literature is the _Don Álvaro_ of Angel de Saavedra,
better known as the Duque de Rivas; in this play are to be found all the
above-mentioned characteristics, even those that have to do more
naturally with lyric poetry, subjectivity and love of nature. Not only
does it present Romanticism in its most effective form; it also shows
the pitfalls of exaggeration and improbability that even the greatest
Romanticists failed to avoid when the check of common sense was removed
and free rein was given to the imagination. But since we are here
concerned mainly with _Los Amantes de Teruel_, a play that demands for
its understanding and appreciation much less familiarity with the
Spanish language than that required by _Don Álvaro_, the extent to which
the masterpiece of Hartzenbusch is representative of Romanticism will
now be briefly noted.[5]

[Footnote 5: In order that the student may discover for himself the
essential differences between the two schools of drama, it is
recommended that he read a classical play such as Moratin's _El Sí de
las Niñas_ before reading _Los Amantes de Teruel_. In comparing the two
plays he should bear in mind that, for the reason that they are both
artistic masterpieces, they avoid the extremes of Classicism and
Romanticism, and that they do not illustrate entirely the opposite
characteristics of the less artistic examples of the two kinds of
drama.]

#VII. Romanticism in _Los Amantes de Teruel._# That the appeal is
mainly to the emotions and imagination is quite evident. The plot is
based on a legend that owes its chief interest to the unusual and even
improbable ending; and the exceptional and improbable, if they are to be
effectively treated in literature, must appeal to the imagination, must
so stir the sentiments of the reader or hearer that the reasoning
faculty may be kept from becoming too active. Not only is the
_dénouement_ itself improbable; the somewhat melodramatic figure of
Zulima and the important part she plays in keeping apart the lovers
until it is too late, would hardly be convincing if the main appeal of
the play were to the intellect. These improbabilities are willingly
ignored by the reader or spectator as he allows himself to be carried
along in the current of passion to the final scene of deep emotion and
intense pathos. Melodious verse and poetic imagery help to make
effective this emotional appeal.

The spiritual appeal of the play is apparent. To Marsilla and Isabel
love is so spiritualized that materialism can find in it no place. Their
love for each other is the "encarnación del cariño anticipado al nacer,"
life means for them "seguir con el cuerpo amando, como el espíritu amó."
Love is life itself; and when no longer permitted to love each other in
this life for the reason that Isabel, believing her lover to be dead and
wishing to sacrifice herself in order that her mother's good name may be
preserved, has become the wife of Rodrigo de Azagra, they willingly
return to the spiritual world from which together _they had come into
the world of materiality_.

The dramatization of a medieval legend is typical of the newly awakened
interest in the Middle Ages. Five years before the beginning of the
supposed action of the play, shortly after Marsilla had left home to
gain name and fortune in the wars against the infidels, was fought at
Navas de Tolosa one of the most decisive battles between Christianity
and Mohammedanism. The year after his departure from Teruel there
ascended the throne of Aragón the boy that was to be known to history as
_Jaime el Conquistador_ because of his reconquest of southeastern Spain
for Christianity. In the lull that preceded the approaching storm the
Christians and Moslems in the eastern part of the peninsula were at
peace, so that in the play they mingle freely, treating each other with
the chivalrous respect that was characteristic of the Middle Ages. The
numerous references to contemporary historic personages and events and
the careful attention to local color bring vividly before us the life of
that part of Aragón recently recovered from the Moors. The _dénouement_
is made less improbable by placing the action of the play in that age of
deep convictions, exalted idealism, chivalrous customs, and in that part
of Spain where tenacity of purpose has always been regarded as a
characteristic trait.

Picturesqueness, in its literary sense is not very apparent in the play
as we now have it. In the first version there were examples of striking
contrasts, a mingling of the tragic and comic, the noble and base, but
these were toned down or eliminated by the author in his revisions of
the play. For an example of exaggerated picturesqueness, with its
violent contrasts, mingling of the sublime and vulgar, the grotesque and
beautiful, the student is referred to _Don Álvaro_.

The classical conventionality that each kind of literature should have
its prescribed form and that the various literary genres should be kept
apart was disregarded by Hartzenbusch. In this play we see a mingling of
scenes in prose with those in verse, we find the versification varied
according to the nature of the scenes, a mingling of dramatic dialogue
and lyrical expression of sentiment and passion. The action of the play
in its first form was impeded by the excessive lyricism of some of the
scenes; although notably reduced, this lyric element is still quite
apparent in the scene between Marsilla and Zulima in the first act, for
example; or between Marsilla and Isabel in the last. In the first
version Mari-Gómez, later changed to Teresa with the suppression of most
of her garrulity, was made to serve as a _graciosa_ and thus relieve the
tenseness of the serious scenes.

As to the three dramatic unities so dear to the Classicists, those of
time and place are disregarded. The action shifts from Valencia to
Teruel; the time occupied covers the last six days of the _plazo_ given
Marsilla in which to gain name and fortune and return home to claim
Isabel for wife. The unity of action, the one essential unity in any
work of art, is carefully preserved. In the first version could be seen
something of the Romantic tendency to complicate the plot by the
introduction of an excessive number of characters and needless episodes,
but in its final form the plot is simple and nothing is permitted to
interfere with its dramatic development.

In the first version there was also some tendency to abuse the new
freedom from conventionality in language, a tendency to seek out unusual
words and phrases for the sake of their picturesqueness, rather than for
their artistic appropriateness. In the polishing and toning-down
process, such words and phrases were eliminated, so that the play in its
final form serves as a good illustration of the permanent enrichment of
the literary language by the Romanticists. Likewise, in its
versification, it offers a good example of the metrical variety found in
the Spanish dramatists of the Golden Age and revived by the
Romanticists.

#VIII. Versification.# Only the fundamental principles of Spanish
versification will be noted here. For a more adequate treatment the
student is referred to such works as Andrés Bello's _Ortología y
métrica_ (Vol. IV of _Obras completas_, Madrid, 1890), or the _Prosodia
castellana y versificación_ of E. Benot; or to the more easily
accessible notes on Spanish versification in Hills and Morley's _Modern
Spanish Lyrics_ or Ford's _Spanish Anthology_.

Some knowledge of two of the essential differences between Spanish and
English versification is needed for the appreciation of the poetry of
this play. Whereas in English poetry the number of feet to the line is
essential, in Spanish the basis of meter is the number of syllables;
moreover, in syllable-counting there are certain rules (too complicated
to be given here) regarding the treatment of contiguous vowels as one
syllable or more than one. Another difference that should be noted is
that in Spanish poetry there are two kinds of rime, consonantal rime and
assonance. Consonantal rime is the same as that used in English poetry,
identity of the last stressed vowel sound as well as all following vowel
or consonant sounds in two or more verses; as for example, in lines
127-130, Act I, _clemencia, Valencia: favor, mejor_. Assonance is
identity in a series of verses of the last stressed vowel and of a
following unstressed vowel, if there be one, but not of a consonant; in
other words, assonance is the correspondence of the vowels, but not of
the consonants, in the riming syllables. Thus, in the first 110 lines of
the play, all the even verses have the same vowel in the last stressed
syllables: _volver, administré, fiel, pie, Adel, partiré, el, rey_, etc.
Only the strong vowel in a diphthong is recognized, so that in these 110
lines the assonance of the alternate verses is in _e_. In the first 148
lines of Act IV all the even verses have one and the same vowel in the
last accented syllable and one and the same vowel in the unaccented
syllable: _pueblo, bandoleros, prenderlos, tiempo, vinieron, provecho_,
etc. The assonance is, therefore, _é-o_.

Of the many verse-forms, _i.e._, definite combinations of line and rime,
to be found in Spanish poetry, we find the following in this play:
_romance, romance heroico, redondilla, quintilla, décima, copla de arte
mayor_, and _silva_.

The _romance_, or ballad meter, is the most thoroughly national of all
Spanish meters and has always been very popular with the dramatists. It
has, regularly, eight syllables to the line, with a regular rhythmic
accent on the seventh, and has assonance in the alternate lines. The
seventh syllable may or may not be followed by one or two unstressed
syllables, but the line is called octosyllabic; one unstressed syllable
is counted whether it be present or not. The first 110 lines of Act I,
for example, are in _romance_. Note that the regular rhythmic stress of
each line is on the seventh syllable; that the odd lines have seven or
eight syllables; that all the even lines have seven metrical syllables
each, and have assonance in _e_. In the first 148 lines of Act IV, all
of the even lines have eight syllables each, for the reason that each
seventh syllable is followed by an unaccented syllable, the assonance
being _é-o._ This is the normal _romance_ line, eight-syllabled and in
assonance.

The _romance heroico_ or _real_ differs from the ordinary _romance_ in
that the lines are hendecasyllabic (eleven-syllabled). Lines 269-474,
Act IV, are in _romance heroico_, with assonance in _á-a_.

The _redondilla_ consists of four octosyllabic lines, with consonantal
rime, usually arranged thus: _abba_. In Act I, for example, lines
111-458 consist of 87 _redondillas_.

The _quintilla_ consists of five octosyllabic lines, with two
consonantal rimes, arranged so that no more than two may come together:
_ababa, abbab, abaab_, etc. In Act III lines 62-226 consist of 33
_quintillas_. The last one has a very unusual combination of rimes:
_abbba_.

The _décima_ consists of ten octosyllabic lines, with four consonantal
rimes usually arranged as in lines 761-770, or 771-780, Act II:
_abbaaccddc_. The _décima_ is not properly considered as two
_quintillas_, since there should be a pause at the end of the fourth
line of a _décima_.

The _copla_ (stanza) _de arte mayor_ contains eight lines with three
consonantal rimes arranged thus: _abbaacca_. Each line is divided into
two hemistitches, with rhythmic stress on the fifth syllable of each
hemistich. The sixth syllable of either hemistich or of both may be
lacking, so that there may be a total of 10, 11, or 12 syllables in a
line. Lines 179-282, Act II, are made up of thirteen _coplas de arte
mayor_. Most of the lines have 11 or 12 syllables; note that verses 187,
200, 215, etc., have only ten each.

The _silva_ is usually composed of eleven-syllabled lines, intermingled
with lines of seven syllables. There is consonantal rime, but without
regularity; and many lines are left unrimed. An example of the _silva_
may be found in lines 309-437, Act III.


        SCHEME OF VERSIFICATION


    Act  I.    1-110 Romance (_e_)
             111-458 Redondillas
    Act II.    1-178 Romance (_a_)
             179-282 Coplas de arte mayor
             283-466 Redondillas
             467-573 Prose
             574-760 Romance _(é-a)_
             761-780 Décimas
    Act III.    1-61 Prose
              62-226 Quintillas
             227-308 Prose
             309-437 Silva
    Act IV.    1-148 Romance _(é-o)_
             149-268 Redondillas
             269-474 Romance heroico _(á-a)_


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The most important books and articles that treat of Hartzenbusch and the
legend of the _Amantes de Teruel_ have already been mentioned. In them
may be found many references and extensive bibliographical data. The
best of the writings of Hartzenbusch are contained in the five volumes
published in the well-known series _Colección de Escritores
Castellanos_. Three volumes contain his best plays: _Teatro_, Madrid,
1888-1892. The first volume, _Poesías_, 1887, contains a good study of
his life and writings by A. Fernández-Guerra. The Romantic movement in
Spain is treated at length in _El Romanticismo en España_, by Enrique
Pineyro, Paris, 1904; and in Vol. I, of _La Literatura Española en el
Siglo XIX_, by F. Blanco-García, 3d edition, 1909.


    LOS AMANTES DE TERUEL,

    DRAMA REFUNDIDO EN CUATRO ACTOS Y EN VERSO Y PROSA

    Estrenado en Madrid en el teatro del Príncipe a 19 de enero de 1837

    PERSONAS


    JUAN DIEGO MARTÍNEZ GARCÉS DE MARSILLA, O MARSILLA.
    ISABEL DE SEGURA.
    DOÑA MARGARITA.
    ZULIMA.
    DON RODRIGO DE AZAGRA.
    DON PEDRO DE SEGURA.
    DON MARTÍN GARCÉS DE MARSILLA.
    TERESA.
    ADEL.
    OSMÍN.

    Soldados moros, cautivos, damas, caballeros, pajes, criados, criadas.


_El primer acto pasa en Valencia, y los demás en Teruel.
Año de 1217_.


           LOS AMANTES DE TERUEL


           ACTO PRIMERO

Dormitorio morisco en el alcázar de Valencia. A la derecha del
espectador una cama, junto al proscenio; a la izquierda, una
ventana con celosías y cortinajes. Puerta grande en el fondo,
y otras pequeñas a los lados.


           ESCENA PRIMERA


ZULIMA, ADEL; JUAN DIEGO MARSILLA, adormecido en la cama:
sobre ella un lienzo con letras de sangre.

ZULIMA.    No vuelve en sí.

ADEL.      Todavía
           tardará mucho en volver.

ZULIMA.    Fuerte el narcótico ha sido.

ADEL.      Poco ha se lo administré.--
           Dígnate de oír, señora,
           la voz de un súbdito fiel,
           que orillas de un precipicio
           te ve colocar el pie.

ZULIMA.    Si disuadirme pretendes,
           no te fatigues, Adel.
           Partir de Valencia quiero,
           y hoy, hoy mismo partiré.

ADEL.     ¿Con ese cautivo?

ZULIMA.                    Tú
          me has de acompañar con él.

ADEL.     ¿Así al esposo abandonas?                               15
          ¡Un Amir, señora, un Rey!

ZULIMA.   Ese Rey, al ser mi esposo,
          me prometió no tener
          otra consorte que yo.
          ¿Lo ha cumplido? Ya lo ves.                             20
          A traerme una rival
          marchó de Valencia ayer.
          Libre a la nueva sultana
          mi puesto le dejaré.

ADEL.     Considera....

ZULIMA.                Está resuelto.                             25
          El renegado Zaén,
          el que aterra la comarca
          de Albarracín y Teruel,
          llamado por mí ha venido,
          y tiene ya en su poder                                  30
          casi todo lo que yo
          de mis padres heredé,
          que es demás para vivir
          con opulencia los tres.
          De la alcazaba saldremos                                35
          a poco de anochecer.

ADEL.     Y ese cautivo, señora,
          ¿te ama? ¿Sabes tú quién es?

ZULIMA.   Es noble, es valiente, en una
          mazmorra iba a perecer                                  40
          de enfermedad y de pena,
          de frío, de hambre y de sed:
          yo le doy la libertad,
          riquezas, mi mano: ¿quién
          rehusa estos dones? ¡Oh!                                45
          Si ofendiera mi altivez
          con una repulsa, caro
          le costara su desdén
          conmigo. Tiempo hace ya
          que este acero emponzoñé,                               50
          furiosa contra mi aleve
          consorte Zeit Abenzeit:
          quien es capaz de vengarse
          en el Príncipe, también
          escarmentara al esclavo,                                55
          como fuera menester.

ADEL.     ¿Qué habrá escrito en ese lienzo
          con su sangre? Yo no sé
          leer en su idioma; pero
          puedo llamar a cualquier                                60
          cautivo....

ZULIMA.             Él nos lo dirá,
          yo se lo preguntaré.

ADEL.     ¿No fuera mejor hablarle
          yo primero, tú después?

ZULIMA.   Le voy a ocultar mi nombre:                             65
          ser Zoraida fingiré,
          hija de Merván.

ADEL.                   ¡Merván!
          ¿Sabes que ese hombre sin ley
          conspira contra el Amir?

ZULIMA.   A él le toca defender                                   70
          su trono, en vez de ocuparse,
          contra la jurada fe,
          en devaneos que un día
          lugar a su ruina den.
          Mas Ramiro no recobra                                   75
          los sentidos: buscaré
          un espíritu a propósito.... (_Vase_.)


          ESCENA II


OSMÍN, por una puerta lateral.--ADEL, MARSILLA


OSMÍN.    ¿Se fué Zulima?

ADEL.                    Se fué.
          Tú nos habrás acechado.

OSMÍN.    He cumplido mi deber.                                   80
          Al ausentarse el Amir,
          con este encargo quedé.
          Es más cauto nuestro dueño
          que esa liviana mujer.--
          El lienzo escrito con sangre,                           85
          ¿dónde está?

ADEL.                 Allí. (_Señalando la cama_.)

OSMÍN.                       Venga.

ADEL.                               Ten.
               (_Le da el lienzo, y Osmín lee_.)
          Mira si es que dice, ya
          que tú lo sabes leer,
          dónde lo pudo escribir;
          porque en el encierro aquel                             90
          apenas penetra nunca
          rayo de luz: verdad es
          que rotas esta mañana
          puerta y cadenas hallé:
          debió, después de romperlas,                            95
          el subterráneo correr,
          y hallando el lienzo....

OSMÍN (_asombrado de lo que ha leído_.) ¡Es posible!

ADEL.     ¿Qué cosa?

OSMÍN.              ¡Oh, vasallo infiel!
          Avisar al Rey es fuerza,
          y al pérfido sorprender.                                100

ADEL.     ¿Es éste el pérfido? (_Señalando a Marsilla_.)

OSMÍN.                         No;
          ese noble aragonés
          hoy el salvador será
          de Valencia y de su Rey.

ADEL.     Zulima viene.

OSMÍN.                       Silencio                             105
          con ella, y al punto ve
          a buscarme. (_Vase_.)

ADEL.                      Norabuena.
          Así me harás la merced
          de explicarme lo que pasa.


          ESCENA III


ZULIMA.--ADEL, MARSILLA

ZULIMA.   Déjame sola.

ADEL.                   Está bien.    (_Vase_.)                   110


          ESCENA IV


ZULIMA, MARSILLA

ZULIMA.   Su pecho empieza a latir
          más fuerte; así que perciba....
             (_Aplícale un pomito a la nariz_.)

MARSILLA. ¡Ah!

ZULIMA.        Volvió.

MARSILLA (_incorporándose_.) ¡Qué luz tan viva!
          no la puedo resistir.

ZULIMA (_corriendo las cortinas de la ventana_).
          De aquella horrible mansión                             115
          está a las tinieblas hecho.

MARSILLA. No es esto piedra, es un lecho.
          ¿Qué ha sido de mi prisión?

ZULIMA.   Mira este albergue despacio,
          y abre el corazón al gozo.                              120

MARSILLA. ¡Señora!.... (_Reparando en ella_.)

ZULIMA.                 Tu calabozo
          se ha convertido en palacio.

MARSILLA. Di (porque yo no me explico
          milagro tal), di, ¿qué es esto?

ZULIMA.   Que eras esclavo, y que presto                          125
          vas a verte libre y rico.

MARSILLA. ¡Libre! ¡Oh divina clemencia!
          Y ¿a quién debo tal favor?

ZULIMA.   ¿Quién puede hacerle mejor
          que la Reina de Valencia?                               130
          Zulima te proporciona
          la sorpresa que te embarga
          dulcemente: ella me encarga
que cuide de tu persona:
          y desde hoy ningún afán                                 135
          permitiré que te aflija.

MARSILLA. ¿Eres?....

ZULIMA.              Dama suya, hija
          del valeroso Merván.

MARSILLA. ¿De Merván? (_Aparte_. ¡Ah! ¡qué
          recuerdo!) (_Busca y recoge el lienzo_.)

ZULIMA.   ¿Qué buscas tan azorado?                                140
          ¿Ese lienzo ensangrentado?

MARSILLA (_aparte_.) Si ésta lo sabe, me pierdo.

ZULIMA.   ¿Que has escrito en él?

MARSILLA.                         No va
          esto dirigido a ti;
          es para el Rey.

ZULIMA.                  No está aquí.                            145

MARSILLA. Para la Reina será.
          Haz, pues, que a mi bienhechora
          vea: por Dios te lo ruego.

ZULIMA.   Conocerás aquí luego
          a la Reina tu señora.                                   150

MARSILLA. ¡Oh!....

ZULIMA.              No estés con inquietud.
          Olvida todo pesar:
          trata solo de cobrar
          el sosiego y la salud.

MARSILLA. Defienda próvido el cielo                               155
          y premie con altos dones
          los piadosos corazones
          que dan al triste consuelo.
          Tendrá Zulima, tendrás
          tú siempre un cautivo en mí;                            160
          hermoso es el bien por sí,
          pero en una hermosa, más.
          Ayer, hoy mismo, ¿cuál era
          mi suerte? Sumido en honda
          cárcel, estrecha y hedionda,                            165
          sin luz, sin aire siquiera;
          envuelto en infecta nube
          que húmedo engendra el terreno;
          paja corrompida, cieno
          y piedras por cama tuve.                                170
          --Hoy ... si no es esto soñar,
          torno a la luz, a la vida,
          y espero ver la florida
          margen del Guadalaviar,
          allí donde alza Teruel,                                 175
          señoreando la altura,
          sus torres de piedra oscura,
          que están mirándose en él.
          No es lo más que me redima
          la noble princesa mora:                                 180
          el bien que me hace, lo ignora
          aun la propia Zulima.

ZULIMA.   Ella siempre algún misterio
          supuso en ti, y así espera
          que me des noticia entera                               185
          de tu vida y cautiverio.
          Una vez que en tu retiro
          las dos ocultas entramos,
          te oímos ... y sospechamos
          que no es tu nombre Ramiro.                             190

MARSILLA. Mi nombre es Diego Marsilla,
          y cuna Teruel me dió,
          pueblo que ayer se fundó,
          y es hoy poderosa villa,
          cuyos muros, entre horrores                             195
          de lid atroz levantados,
          fueron con sangre amasados
          de sus fuertes pobladores.
          Yo creo que al darme ser
          quiso formar el Señor,                                  200
          modelos de puro amor,
          un hombre y una mujer,
          y para hacer la igualdad
          de sus afectos cumplida,
          les dió un alma en dos partida,                         205
          y dijo: «Vivid y amad.»
          Al son de la voz creadora,
          Isabel y yo existimos,
          y ambos los ojos abrimos
          en un día y una hora.                                   210
          Desde los años más tiernos
          fuimos ya finos amantes;
          desde que nos vimos ... antes
          nos amábamos de vernos;
          porque el amor principió                                215
          a enardecer nuestras almas
          al contacto de las palmas
          de Dios, cuando nos crió:
          y así fué nuestro querer,
          prodigioso en niña y niño,                              220
          encarnación del cariño
          anticipado al nacer,
          seguir Isabel y yo,
          al triste mundo arribando,
          seguir con el cuerpo amando,                            225
          como el espíritu amó.

ZULIMA.   Inclinación tan igual
          sólo dichas pronostica.

MARSILLA. Soy pobre, Isabel es rica.

ZULIMA (_aparte_). Respiro.

MARSILLA.                        Tuve un rival.                   230

ZULIMA.   ¿Sí?

MARSILLA.      Y opulento.

ZULIMA.                     Y bien....

MARSILLA.                              Hizo
          alarde de su riqueza....

ZULIMA.   ¿Y qué? ¿rindió la firmeza
          de Isabel?

MARSILLA.            Es poco hechizo
          el oro para quien ama.                                  235
          Su padre, sí, deslumbrado....

ZULIMA.   ¿Tu amor dejó desairado,
          privándote de tu dama?

MARSILLA. Le ví, mi pasión habló,
          su fuerza exhalando toda,                               240
          y, suspendida la boda,
          un plazo se me otorgó,
          para que mi esfuerzo activo
          juntara un caudal honrado.

ZULIMA.   ¿Es ya el término pasado?                               245

MARSILLA. Señora, ya ves ... aun vivo.
          Seis años y una semana
me dieron: los años ya
          se cumplen hoy; cumplirá
          el primer día mañana.                                   250

ZULIMA.   Sigue.

MARSILLA.       Un adiós a la hermosa
          dí, que es de mis ojos luz,
          y combatí por la cruz
          en las Navas de Tolosa.
          Gané con brioso porte                                   255
          crédito allí de guerrero;
          luego, en Francia, prisionero
          caí del Conde Monforte.
          Huí, y en Siria un francés
          albigense, refugiado,                                   260
          a quien había salvado
          la vida junto a Besiés,
          me dejó, al morir, su herencia:
          volviendo con fama y oro
          a España, pirata moro                                   265
          me apresó y trajo a Valencia.
          Y en pena de que rompió
          de mis cadenas el hierro
          mi mano, profundo encierro
          en vida me sepultó,                                     270
          donde mi extraño custodio,
          sin dejarse ver ni oír,
          me prolongaba el vivir,
          o por piedad o por odio.
          De aquel horrendo lugar                                 275
          me sacáis: bella mujer,
          sentir sé y agradecer:
          di cómo podré pagar.

ZULIMA.   No borres de tu memoria
          tan debido ofrecimiento,                                280
          y haz por escuchar atento
          cierta peregrina historia.
          Un joven aragonés
          vino cautivo al serallo:
          sus prendas y nombre callo;                             285
          tú conocerás quién es.
          Toda mujer se lastima
          de ver padecer sonrojos
          a un noble: puso los ojos
          en el esclavo Zulima,                                   290
          y férvido amor en breve
          nació de la compasión:
          aquí es brasa el corazón;
          allá entre vosotros, nieve.
          Quiso aquel joven huir;                                 295
          fué desgraciado en su empeño:
          le prenden, y por su dueño
          es condenado a morir.
          Pero en favor del cristiano
          velaba Zulima; ciega,                                   300
          loca, le salva;--más, llega
          a brindarle con su mano.
          Respuesta es bien se le dé
          en trance tan decisivo:
          habla tú por el cautivo,                                305
          yo por la Reina hablaré.

MARSILLA. Ni en desgracia ni en ventura
          cupo en mi lenguaje dolo:
          este corazón es sólo
          para Isabel de Segura.                                  310

ZULIMA.   Medita, y concederás
          al tiempo lo que reclama.
          ¿Sabes tú si es fiel tu dama?
          ¿Sabes tú si la verás?

MARSILLA. Me matara mi dolor,                                     315
          si fuera Isabel perjura:
          mi constancia me asegura
          la firmeza de su amor.
          Con espíritu gallardo,
          si queréis, daré mi vida:                               320
          dada el alma y recibida,
          fiel al dueño se la guardo.

ZULIMA.   Mira que es poco prudente
          burlar a tu soberana,
          que tiene sangre africana,                              325
          y ama y odia fácilmente.
          Y si ella sabe que, cuando
          yo su corazón te ofrezco,
          por ella el dolor padezco
          de ver que le estás pisando,                            330
          volverás a tus cadenas
          y a tu negro calabozo,
          y allí yo, con alborozo
          que más encone tus penas,
          la nueva te llevaré                                     335
          de ser Isabel esposa.

MARSILLA. Y en prisión tan horrorosa
          ¿cuántos días viviré?

ZULIMA.   ¡Rayo del cielo! el traidor
          cuanto fabrico derrumba:                                340
          defendido con la tumba,
          se ríe de mi furor.
          Trocarás la risa en llanto.
          Cautiva desde Teruel
          me han de traer a Isabel....                            345

MARSILLA. ¿Quién eres tú para tanto?

ZULIMA.   Tiembla de mí.

MARSILLA. Furia vana.

ZULIMA.   ¡Insensato! La que ves,
          no es hija de Merván, es
          Zulima.

MARSILLA. ¡Tú la Sultana!                                         350

ZULIMA.   La Reina.

MARSILLA. Toma, con eso
            (_Dándole el lienzo ensangrentado_.)
          correspondo a tu afición:
          entrega sin dilación
          a hombre de valor y seso
          el escrito que te doy.                                  355
          Sálvete su diligencia.

ZULIMA.   ¡Cómo! ¿Qué riesgo?...

MARSILLA. A Valencia
          tu esposo ha de llegar hoy;
          y en llegando, tú y él y otros
          a sedicioso puñal                                       360
          perecéis.

ZULIMA.   ¿Qué desleal
          conspira contra nosotros?

MARSILLA. Merván, tu padre supuesto.
          Si tu cólera no estalla,
          mi labio el secreto calla,                              365
          y el fin os llega funesto.

ZULIMA.   ¿Cómo tal conjuración
          a ti!....

MARSILLA.          Frenético ayer,
          la puerta pude romper
          de mi encierro: la prisión                              370
          recorro, oigo hablar, atiendo....
          --Junta de aleves impía
          era, Merván presidía.--
          Allí supe que volviendo
          a este alcázar el Amir,                                 375
          trataban de asesinarle.
          Resuélvome a no dejarle
          pérfidamente morir,
          y con roja tinta humana
          y un pincel de mi cabello                               380
          la trama en un lienzo sello,
          y el modo de hacerla vana.
          Poner al siguiente día
          pensaba el útil aviso
          en la cesta que el preciso                              385
          sustento me conducía.
          Vencióme tenaz modorra,
          más fuerte que mi cuidado:
          desperté maravillado,
          fuera ya de la mazmorra.                                390
          Junta pues tu guardia, pon
          aquí un acero, y que venga
          con todo el poder que tenga
          contra ti la rebelión.

ZULIMA.   Dé a la rebelión castigo                                395
          quien tema por su poder;
          no yo, que al anochecer
          huir pensaba contigo.
          Poca gente, pero brava,
          que al marchar nos protegiera,                          400
          sumisa mi voz espera
          escondida en la alcazaba.
          Con ellos entre el rebato
          del tumulto, partiré;
          con ellos negociaré                                     405
          que me venguen de un ingrato.
          Teme la cuchilla airada
          de Zaén, el bandolero;
          tiembla, más que de su acero,
          de esta daga envenenada.                                410
          ¡Ay del que mi amor trocó
          en frenesí rencoroso!
          ¡Nunca espere ser dichoso
          quien de celos me mató!

MARSILLA. ¡Zulima!... ¡Señora !...                                415

(_Vase Zulima por la puerta del fondo, y cierra por dentro_.)


          ESCENA V

OSMÍN.--MARSILLA.

OSMÍN                             Baste
          de plática sin provecho.
          Al Rey un favor has hecho:
          acaba lo que empezaste.

MARSILLA. ¡Cómo! ¿tú?....

OSMÍN.                          El lienzo he leído
          que al Rey dirigiste: allí                              420
          le ofreces tu brazo.

MARSILLA.                       Sí,
          armas y riesgo le pido.

OSMÍN.    Pues bien, dos tropas formadas
          con los cautivos están:
          serás el un capitán,                                    425
          el otro Jaime Celladas.

MARSILLA. ¡Jaime está aquí! Es mi paisano,
          es mi amigo.

OSMÍN.                Si hay combate,
          así tendrá su rescate
          cada cautivo en la mano.                                430
          Con ardimiento lidiad.

MARSILLA. ¿Quién, de libertad sediento,
          no lidia con ardimiento
          al grito de libertad!

OSMÍN.    Cuanto a Zulima....

MARSILLA.                    También                              435
          Libre ha de ser.

OSMÍN.                     No debiera;
          pero llévesela fuera
          de nuestro reino Zaén.


          ESCENA VI


ADEL, SOLDADOS MOROS.--MARSILLA, OSMÍN

ADEL.     Osmín, a palacio van
          turbas llegando en tumulto,                             440
          y Zaén, que estaba oculto,
          sale aclamando a Merván.
          Zulima nos ha vendido.

OSMÍN.    Ya no hay perdón que le alcance.

MARSILLA. Después de correr el lance,                             445
          se dispondrá del vencido.
          Cuando rueda la corona
          entre la sangre y el fuego,
          primero se triunfa, luego....

OSMÍN.    Se castiga.

MARSILLA. Se perdona.                                             450

VOCES (_dentro_). ¡Muera el tirano!

MARSILLA.                                ¡Mi espada!
          ¡Mi puesto!

OSMÍN.                Ven, ven a él.
          Guarda el torreón, Adel.

ADEL.     Ten tu acero. (_Dásele a Marsilla_.)

MARSILLA.               ¡Arma anhelada!
          ¡Mi diestra te empuña ya!                               455
          Ella al triunfo te encamina.
          Rayo fué de Palestina,
          rayo en Valencia será.


           ACTO SEGUNDO


Teruel.--Sala en casa de don Pedro Segura


           ESCENA PRIMERA


DON PEDRO, entrando en su casa; MARGARITA, ISABEL y TERESA,
saliendo a recibirle


MARGARITA. ¡Esposo! (_Arrodillándose_.)

ISABEL.             ¡Padre! (_Arrodillándose_.)

TERESA.                     ¡Señor!

PEDRO.     ¡Hija! ¡Margarita! Alzad.

ISABEL.    Dadme a besar vuestra mano.

MARGARITA. Déjame el suelo besar
           que pisas.

TERESA (_a Margarita_). Vaya, señora,                             5
           ya es vicio tanta humildad.

PEDRO.     Pedazos del corazón,
           no es ese vuestro lugar.
           Abrazadme. (_Levanta y abraza a las dos_.)

TERESA.               Así me gusta.
           Y a mí luego.

PEDRO.                 Ven acá,                                   10
           fiel Teresa.

TERESA.                Fiel y franca,
           tengo en ello vanidad.

PEDRO.     Ya he vuelto, por fin.

MARGARITA.                        Dios quiso
           mis plegarias escuchar.

PEDRO.     Gustoso a Monzón partí,                                15
           comisionado especial
           para ofrecer a don Jaime
           las tropas que alistará
           nuestra villa de Teruel
           en defensa de la paz,                                  20
           que don Sancho y don Fernando
           nos quieren arrebatar:
           fué don Rodrigo de Azagra,
           obsequioso y liberal,
           acompañándome al ir,                                   25
           y me acompaña al tornar;
           mas yo me acordaba siempre
           de vosotras con afán.
           Triste se quedó Isabel;
           más triste la encuentro.

TERESA.                           Ya.                             30

MARGARITA. ¡Teresa!

ISABEL.            ¡Padre!

PEDRO.                      Hija mía,
           dime con sinceridad
           lo que ha pasado en mi ausencia.

TERESA.    Poco tiene que contar.

MARGARITA. ¡Teresa!

TERESA.             Digo bien. ¿Es                                35
           por ventura novedad
           que Isabel suspire, y vos (_a Margarita_)
           recéis, y ayunéis a pan
           y agua, y os andéis curando
           enfermos por caridad?                                  40
           Es la vida que traéis,
           lo menos, quince años ha....

MARGARITA. Basta.

TERESA.           Y hace seis cumplidos
           que no se ha visto asomar
           en los labios de Isabel                                45
           ni una sonrisa fugaz.

ISABEL (_aparte_). ¡Ay, mi bien!

TERESA.                               En fin, señor,
           del pobrecillo don Juan
           Diego de Marsilla, nada
           se sabe.

MARGARITA. Si no calláis,                                         50
           venid conmigo.

TERESA.                    Ir con vos
           fácil es; pero callar....

(_Vanse Margarita y Teresa. Don Pedro se quita la espada
y la pone sobre un bufete_.)


           ESCENA II


DON PEDRO, ISABEL

PEDRO.     Mucho me aflige, Isabel,
           tu pesadumbre tenaz;
           pero, por desgracia, yo                                55
           no la puedo remediar.
           Esclavo de su palabra
           es el varón principal;
           tengo empeñada la mía:
           la debo desempeñar.                                    60
           En el honor de tu padre
           no se vió mancha jamás:
           juventud honrada pide
           más honrada ancianidad.

ISABEL.    No pretendo yo....

PEDRO.                       Por otra                             65
           parte, parece que están
           de Dios ciertas cosas. Oye
           un lance bien singular,
           y di si no tiene traza
           de caso providencial.                                  70

ISABEL.    A ver.

PEDRO.           En Teruel vivió
           (no sé si te acordarás)
           un tal Roger de Lizana,
           caballero catalán.                                     75

ISABEL.    ¿El templario?

PEDRO.                   Sí. Roger
           paraba en Monzón. Allá
           es voz que penas y culpas
           de su libre mocedad
           trajéronle una dolencia
           de espíritu y corporal,                                80
           que vino a dejarle casi
           mudo, imbécil, incapaz.
           Pacífico en su idiotez,
           permitíanle vagar
           libre por el pueblo. Un día,                           85
           sobre una dificultad
           en mi encargo y sobre cómo
           se debiera de allanar,
           don Rodrigo y yo soltamos
           palabras de enemistad.                                 90
           Marchóse enojado, y yo
           exclamé al verle marchar:
           «¿Ha de ser este hombre dueño
           de lo que yo quiero más?
           Si la muerte puede sola                                95
           mi palabra desatar,
           lléveme el Señor, y quede
           Isabel en libertad.»

ISABEL.    ¡Oh padre!

PEDRO.               En esto, un empuje
           tremendo a la puerta dan,                              100
           se abre, y con puñal en mano
           entra....

ISABEL.             ¡Virgen del Pilar!
           ¿Quién?

PEDRO.            Roger. Llégase a mí,
           y en voz pronunciada mal,
           «Uno (dijo) de los dos                                 105
           la vida aquí dejará.»

ISABEL.    Y ¿qué hicisteis?

PEDRO.                      Yo, pensando
           que bien pudiera quizás
           mi muerte impedir alguna
           mayor infelicidad,                                     110
           crucé los brazos, y quieto
           esperé el golpe mortal.

ISABEL.    ¡Cielos! ¿Y Roger?

PEDRO.                       Roger
           parado al ver mi ademán,
           en lugar de acometerme,                                115
           se fué retirando atrás,
           mirándome de hito en hito,
           llena de terror la faz.
           Asió con entrambas manos
           el arma por la mitad,                                  120
           y señas distintas hizo
           de querérmela entregar.
           Yo no le atendí, guardando
           completa inmovilidad
           como antes; y él, con los ojos                         125
           fijos, y sin menear
           los párpados, balbuciente
           dijo: «Matadme, salvad
           en el hueco de mi tumba
           mi secreto criminal.»                                  130

ISABEL.   ¡Su secreto!

PEDRO.                En fin, de estarse
          tanto sin pestañear,
          él, cuyos sentidos eran
          la suma debilidad,
          se trastornó, cayó; dió                                 135
          la guarnición del puñal
          en tierra, le fué la punta
          al corazón a parar
          al infeliz, y a mis plantas
          rindió el aliento vital.                                140
          Huí con espanto: Azagra,
          viniéndose a disculpar
          conmigo, me halló; le dije
          que no pisaba el umbral
          de aquella casa en mi vida;                             145
          y él, próvido y eficaz,
          avisó al rey, y mandó
          el cadáver sepultar.--
          Ya ves, hija: por no ir
          yo contra tu voluntad,                                  150
          por no cumplir mi palabra,
          quise dejarme matar;
          y Dios me guardó la vida:
          su decreto celestial
          es sin duda que esa boda                                155
          se haga por fin ... --y se hará,
          si en tres días no parece
          tu preferido galán.

ISABEL (_aparte_). ¡Ay de él y de mí!


           ESCENA III


TERESA.--DON PEDRO, ISABEL

TERESA.                    Señor,
           acaba de preguntar                                     160
           por vos don Martín, el padre
           de don Diego.

ISABEL (_aparte_).    ¿Si sabrá?...

TERESA.    Como es enemigo vuestro,
           le he dejado en el zaguán.

PEDRO.     A enemigo noble se abren                               165
           las puertas de par en par.
           Que llegue. (_Vase Teresa_.) Ve con tu
           madre.

ISABEL (_aparte_). Ella a sus pies me verá
           llorando, hasta que consiga
           vencer su severidad. (_Vase_.)                         170


           ESCENA IV


           DON PEDRO

           Desafiados quedamos
           al tiempo de cabalgar
           yo para Monzón: el duelo
           llevar a cabo querrá.
           Bien.--Pero él ha padecido                             175
           una larga enfermedad.
           Si no tiene el brazo firme,
           conmigo no lidiará.


           ESCENA V


DON MARTÍN.--DON PEDRO

MARTÍN.   Don Pedro Segura, seáis bien venido.

PEDRO.    Y vos, don Martín Garcés de Marsilla,                   180
          seáis bien hallado: tomad una silla.

(_Siéntase don Martín, mientras don Pedro va a tomar su
espada_.)

MARTÍN.   Dejad vuestra espada.

PEDRO (_sentándose_).      Con pena he sabido
          la grave dolencia que habéis padecido.

MARTÍN.   Al fin me repuse del todo.
PEDRO.                               No sé....

MARTÍN.   Domingo Celladas....

PEDRO.                     ¡Fuerte hombre es, a fe!               185

MARTÍN.   Pues aun a la barra le gano el partido.

PEDRO.    Así os quiero yo. Desde hoy, elegid
          al duelo aplazado seguro lugar.

MARTÍN.   Don Pedro, yo os tengo primero que hablar.

PEDRO.    Hablad en buen hora: ya escucho. Decid.                 190

MARTÍN.   Causó nuestra riña....

PEDRO.                           La causa omitid:
          sabémosla entrambos. Por vos se me dijo
          que soy un avaro, y os privo de un hijo.
          De honor es la ofensa, precisa la lid.

MARTÍN.   ¿Tenéisme por hombre de aliento?

PEDRO.                                      Sí tal.               195
          Si no lo creyera, con vos no lidiara.

MARTÍN.   Jamás al peligro le vuelvo la cara.

PEDRO.    Sí, nuestro combate puede ser igual.

MARTÍN.    Será por lo mismo....

PEDRO.                          Sangriento, mortal.
           Ha de perecer uno de los dos.                          200

MARTÍN.    Oíd un suceso, feliz para vos...
           Feliz para entrambos.

PEDRO.                          Decídmele. ¿Cuál?

MARTÍN.    Tres meses hará que en lecho de duelo
           me puso la mano que todo lo guía.
           Del riesgo asustada la familia mía                     205
           quiso en vuestra esposa buscar su consuelo.
           Con tino infalible, con próvido celo
           salud en la villa benéfica vierte,
           y enfermo en que airada se ceba la muerte,
           le salva su mano, bendita del cielo.                   210
           Con vos irritado, no quise atender
           al dulce consejo de amante inquietud.
           «No cobre (decía) jamás la salud,
           si mano enemiga la debe traer.»
           Mayor mi tesón a más padecer,                          215
           la muerte en mi alcoba plantó su bandera.
           Por fin, una noche... ¡Qué noche tan fiera!
           Blasfemo el dolor hacíame ser;
           pedía una daga con furia tenaz,
           rasgar anhelando con ella mi pecho...                  220
           En esto a mis puertas, y luego a mi lecho,
           llegó un peregrino, cubierta la faz.
           Ángel parecía de salud y paz...
           Me habla, me consuela, benigno licor
           al labio me pone; me alivia el dolor,                  225
           y parte, y no quiere quitarse el disfraz.
La noche que tuve su postrer visita,
           ya restablecido, sus pasos seguí.
           Cruzó varias calles, viniendo hacia aquí,
           y entró en esa ruina de gótica ermita,                 230
           que a vuestros jardines términos limita.
           Detúvele entonces: el velo cayó,
           radiante la luna su rostro alumbró ...
           era vuestra esposa.

PEDRO.                        ¡Era Margarita!

MARTÍN.    Confuso un momento, cobréme después,                   235
           y vióme postrado la noble señora.
           --Con tal beneficio, no cabe que ahora
           provoque mi mano sangriento revés.
           Don Pedro Segura, decid a quien es
           deudor este padre de verse con vida,                   240
           que está la contienda por mí fenecida.
           Tomad este acero, ponedle a sus piés.

     (_Da su espada a don Pedro, que la coloca en el bufete_.)

PEDRO.     ¡Feliz yo, que logro el duelo excusar
           con vos, por motivo que es tan lisonjero!
           Si pronto me hallasteis, por ser caballero,            245
           cuidado me daba el ir a lidiar.
           Con tal compañera, ¿quién no ha de arriesgar
           con susto la vida que lleva dichosa?
           Ella me será desde hoy más preciosa,
           si ya vuestro amigo queréisme llamar.                  250

MARTÍN.    Amigos seremos. (_Danse las manos_.)

PEDRO.                    Siempre.

MARTÍN.                           Siempre, sí.

PEDRO.     Y al cabo, ¿qué nuevas tenéis de don Diego?
           En hora menguada, vencido del ruego
           de Azagra, la triste palabra le dí.
           Si antes vuestro hijo se dirige a mí,                  255
           ¡cuánto ambas familias se ahorran de llanto!
           No lo quiso Dios.

MARTÍN.                     Yo su nombre santo
           bendigo; mas lloro por lo que perdí.

PEDRO.     Pero, ¿qué...?

MARTÍN.                   Después de la de Maurel,
           donde cayó en manos del Conde Simón,                   260
           de nadie consigo señal ni razón,
           por más que anhelante pregunto por él.
           Cada día al cielo con súplica fiel
           pido que me diga qué punto en la tierra
           sostiénele vivo, o muerto le encierra:                 265
           mundo y cielo guardan silencio cruel.

PEDRO.     El plazo no tuvo su fin todavía.
           Piedad atesora inmensa el Eterno:
           y mucho me holgara si fuera mi yerno
           quien a mi Isabel tan fino quería.                     270
           Pero si no viene, y cúmplese el día,
           y llega la hora ... por más que me pesa,
           me tiene sujeto sagrada promesa:
           si fuera posible, no la cumpliría.

MARTÍN.    Diligencia escasa, fortuna severa                      275
           parece que en suerte a mi sangre cupo:
           quien a la desgracia sujetar no supo,
           sufrido se muestre cuando ella le hiera.
           Adiós.

PEDRO.             No han de veros de aquesa manera.
          Yo quiero esta espada; la mía tomad
                     (_Dásela_.)                                  280
          en prenda segura de fiel amistad.

MARTÍN.   Acepto: un monarca llevarla pudiera.

(_Vase don Martín, y don Pedro le acompaña_.)


           ESCENA VI


MARGARITA, ISABEL

MARGARITA (_aparte, siguiendo con la vista a los dos que se
                retiran_.)
           Aunque nada les oí,
           deben estar ya los dos
           reconciliados.

ISABEL (_que viene tras su madre_). Por Dios,                     285
           madre, haced caso de mí.

MARGARITA. No; que es repugnancia loca
           la que mostráis a un enlace,
           que de seguro nos hace
           a todos, merced no poca.                               290
           Noble sois; pero mirad
           que quien su amor os consagra
           es don Rodrigo de Azagra,
           que goza más calidad,
           más bienes: en Aragón                                  295
           le acatan propios y ajenos,
           y muestra, con vos al menos,
           apacible condición.

ISABEL.    Vengativo y orgulloso
           es lo que me ha parecido.                              300

MARGARITA. Vuestro padre le ha creído
           digno de ser vuestro esposo.
           Prendarse de quien le cuadre
           no es lícito a una doncella,
           ni hay más voluntad en ella                            305
           que la que tenga su padre.
           Hoy día, Isabel, así
           se conciertan nuestras bodas:
           así nos casan a todas,
           y así me han casado a mí.                              310

ISABEL.    ¿No hay a los tormentos míos
           otro consuelo que dar?

MARGARITA. No me tenéis que mentar
           vuestros locos amoríos.
           Yo por delirios no abogo.                              315
           Idos.

ISABEL.         En vano esperé.
            (_Sollozando al retirarse_.)

MARGARITA. ¡Qué! ¿lloráis?

ISABEL.                   Aun no me fué
           vedado este desahogo.

MARGARITA. Isabel, si no os escucho,
           no me acuséis de rigor.                                320
           Comprendo vuestro dolor,
           y le compadezco mucho;
           pero, hija ... cuatro años ha
           que a nadie Marsilla escribe.
           Si ha muerto....

ISABEL.                     ¡No, madre, vive!....                 325
           Pero ¿cómo vivirá?
           Tal vez, llorando, en Sion
           arrastra por mí cadenas,
           quizá gime en las arenas
           de la líbica región.                                   330
           Con aviso tan funesto
           no habrá querido afligirme.
           Yo trato de persuadirme,
           y sin cesar pienso en esto.
           Yo me propuse aprender                                335
           a olvidarle, sospechando
           que infiel estaba, gozando
           caricias de otra mujer.
           Yo escuché de su rival
           los acentos desabridos,                                340
           y logré de mis oídos
           que no me sonaran mal.
           Pero ¡ay! cuando la razón
           iba a proclamarse ufana
           vencedora soberana                                     345
           de la rebelde pasión,
           al recordar la memoria
           un suspiro de mi ausente,
           se arruinaba de repente
           la fortaleza ilusoria,                                 350
           y con ímpetu mayor,
           tras el combate perdido,
           se entraba por mi sentido
           a sangre y fuego el amor.
           Yo entonces a la virtud                                355
           nombre daba de falsía,
           rabioso llanto vertía,
           y hundirme en el ataúd
juraba en mi frenesí
           antes que rendirme al yugo                             360
           de ese hombre, fatal verdugo,
           genio infernal para mí.

MARGARITA. Por Dios, por Dios, Isabel,
           moderad ese delirio:
           vos no sabéis el martirio                              365
           que me hacéis pasar con él.

ISABEL.    ¡Qué! ¿mi audacia os maravilla?
           Pero estando ya tan lleno
           el corazón de veneno,
           fuerza es que rompa su orilla.                         370
           No a vos, a la piedra inerte
           de esa muralla desnuda,
           a esa bóveda que muda
           oyó mi queja de muerte,
           a este suelo donde mella                               375
           pudo hacer el llanto mío,
           a no ser tan duro y frío
           como alguno que le huella,
           para testigos invoco
           de mi doloroso afán;                                   380
           que, si alivio no le dan,
           no les ofende tampoco.

MARGARITA (_aparte_). ¿Quién con ánimo sereno
           la oyera?--El dolor mitiga;
           de una madre, de una amiga                             385
           ven al cariñoso seno.
           Conóceme, y no te ahuyente
           la faz severa que ves:
           máscara forzosa es,
           que dió el pesar a mi frente;                          390
           pero tras ella te espera,
           para templar tu dolor,
           el tierno, indulgente amor
           de una madre verdadera.

ISABEL.    ¡Madre mía! (_Abrázanse._)

MARGARITA.             Mi ternura                                 395
           te oculté ... porque debí...
           ¡Ha quince años que hay aquí
           guardada tanta amargura!
           Yo hubiera en tu amor filial
           gozado, y gozar no debo
           nada ya, desde que llevo                               400
           el cilicio y el sayal.

ISABEL.    ¡Madre!

MARGARITA.         Temí, recelé
           dar a tu amor incentivo,
           y sólo por correctivo                                  405
           severidad te mostré;
           mas oyéndote gemir
           cada noche desde el lecho,
           y a veces en tu despecho
           mis rigores maldecir,                                  410
           yo al Señor, de silencioso
           materno llanto hecha un mar,
           ofrecí mil veces dar
           mi vida por tu reposo.

ISABEL.    ¡Cielos! ¡Qué revelación                               415
           tan grata! ¡Qué injusta he sido!
           ¡Que tanto me habéis querido!
           ¡Madre de mi corazón!

           Perdonadme... ¡Qué alborozo
           siento, aunque llorar me veis!                         420
           Seis años ha, más de seis,
           que tanta dicha no gozo.
           Mi desgracia contemplad,
           cuando como dicha cuento
           que mis penas un momento                               425
           aplaquen su intensidad.
           Pero este rayo que inunda
           en viva luz mi alma yerta,
           ¿dejaréis que se convierta
           en lobreguez más profunda?                             430
           Madre, madre, a quien adoro,
           el labio os pongo en el pie;
           mi aliento aquí exhalaré,
           si no cedéis a mi lloro. (_Póstrase._)

MARGARITA. Levanta, Isabel; enjuga                                435
           tus ojos; confía.... Sí,
           cuanto dependa de mí....

ISABEL     Ya veis que en rápida fuga
           el tiempo desaparece.
           Si pasan tres días, ¡tres!,                            440
           todo me sobra después,
           toda esperanza fallece.
           Mi padre, por no faltar
           a la palabra tremenda,
           le rendirá por ofrenda                                 445
           mi albedrío en el altar.
           Vuestras razones imprimen
           en su alma la persuasión:
           en mí toda reflexión
fuera desacato, crimen.                                           450
           Y yo, señora, lo veo:
           podrá llevarme a casar;
           pero en vez de preparar
           las galas del himeneo,
           que a tenerme se limite                                455
           una cruz y una mortaja;
           que esta gala y esta alhaja
           será lo que necesite.

MARGARITA. No, no, Isabel: cesa, cesa.
           Yo en tu defensa, me empeño:                           460
           no será Azagra tu dueño.
           yo anularé la promesa.
           Me oirá tu padre, y tamaños
           horrores evitará.
           Hoy madre tuya será                                    465
           quien no lo fué tantos años.


           ESCENA VII


TERESA.--MARGARITA, ISABEL

TERESA.    Señoras, don Rodrigo de Azagra pide licencia
           para visitaros.

MARGARITA. Hazle entrar. A buen tiempo llega.
(_Vase Teresa_.)

ISABEL.    Permitid que yo me retire.                             470

MARGARITA. Quédate en la pieza inmediata, y escucha
           nuestra conversación.

ISABEL.    ¿Qué vais a decir?

MARGARITA. Óyelo, y acabarás de hacer justicia a tu
           madre. (_Vase Isabel_.)                                475


           ESCENA VIII


DON RODRIGO.--MARGARITA

MARGARITA. Ilustre don Rodrigo....

RODRIGO. Señora ... al fin nos vemos.

MARGARITA. Honrad mi estrado, ya que la prisa de
venir a mi casa no os ha dejado sosegar en la vuestra.

RODRIGO. Aquí vengo a buscar el sosiego que necesito.             480
(_Siéntase_.) ¿Qué me decís de mi desdeñosa?

MARGARITA. ¿Me permitiréis que hable con toda franqueza?

RODRIGO. Con franqueza pregunto yo.--Hablad.

MARGARITA. Mi esposo os prometió la mano de su                    485
hija única; y, por él, debéis contar de seguro con ella.
Pero la delicadeza de vuestro amor y la elevación de
vuestro carácter ¿se satisfarían con la posesión de una
mujer, cuyo cariño no fuese vuestro?

RODRIGO. El corazón de Isabel no es ahora mío, lo                 490
sé; pero Isabel es virtuosa, es el espejo de las doncellas:
cumplirá lo que jure, apreciará mi rendida fe, y será el
ejemplo de las casadas.

MARGARITA. Mirad que su afecto a Marsilla no se ha
disminuído.                                                       495

RODRIGO. No me inspira celos un rival, cuyo paradero
se ignora, cuya muerte, para mí, es indudable.

MARGARITA. ¿Y si volviese aún? ¿Y si antes de
cumplirse el término, se presentara tan enamorado como
se fué, y con aumentos muy considerables de hacienda?             500

RODRIGO. Mal haría en aparecer ni antes ni después de
mis bodas. Él prometió renunciar a Isabel, si no se
enriquecía en seis años; pero yo nada he prometido. Si
vuelve, uno de los dos ha de quedar solo junto a Isabel.
La mano que pretendemos ambos, no se compra con oro;              505
se gana con hierro, se paga con sangre.

MARGARITA. Vuestro lenguaje no es muy reverente
para usado en esta casa, y conmigo; pero os le perdono,
porque me perdonéis la pesadumbre que voy a daros.
Yo, noble don Rodrigo, yo que hasta hoy consentí en               510
vuestro enlace con Isabel, he visto por último que de él
iba a resultar su desgracia y la vuestra. Tengo, pues, que
deciros, como cristiana y madre; tengo que suplicaros por
nuestro Señor y nuestra Señora, que desistáis de un empeño,
ya poco distante de la temeridad.                                 515

RODRIGO. Ese empeño es público, hace muchos años
que dura, y se ha convertido para mí en caso de honor.
Es imposible que yo desista. No os opongáis a lo que
no podréis impedir.

MARGARITA. Aunque habéis desairado mi ruego, tal                  520
vez no le desaire mi esposo.

RODRIGO. Mucho alcanzáis con él: adora en vos, y lo
merecéis, porque ha quince años que os empleáis en la
caridad y la penitencia... Pero ... ¿os ha contado
ya la muerte de Roger de Lizana?                                  525

MARGARITA. ¡Cómo! ¿Roger ha muerto?

RODRIGO. Sí, loco y mudo, según estaba; desgraciadamente,
según merecía; y a los pies de don Pedro, como
era justo.

MARGARITA. ¡Cielos! Nada sabía de ese infeliz.                    530

RODRIGO. Ese infeliz era muy delincuente, era el
corruptor de una dama ilustre.

MARGARITA. ¡Don Rodrigo!

RODRIGO. La esposa más respetable entre las de
Teruel.                                                           535

MARGARITA. Por compasión.... Si Roger ha
muerto....

RODRIGO. Casi espiró en mis brazos. Yo tendí sobre
el féretro su cadáver, yo hallé sobre su corazón unas
cartas....                                                        540

MARGARITA. ¡Cartas!

RODRIGO. De mujer ... cinco ... sin firma todas.
Pero yo os las presentaré, y vos me diréis quién las ha
escrito.

MARGARITA. ¡Callad! ¡callad!                                      545

RODRIGO. Si no, acudiré a vuestro esposo: bien
conoce la letra.

MARGARITA. ¡No! ¡Dádmelas, rompedlas, quemadlas!

RODRIGO. Se os entregarán; pero Isabel me ha de
entregar a mí su mano primero.                                    550

MARGARITA. ¡Oh!

RODRIGO. Dios os guarde, señora.

MARGARITA. Deteneos, oídme.

RODRIGO. Para que os oiga, venid a verlas. (_Vase_.)

MARGARITA. Escuchad, escuchadme. (_Vase tras don                  555
Rodrigo_.)


          ESCENA IX


ISABEL, y después TERESA

ISABEL. ¿Qué es lo que oí? No lo he comprendido,
no quiero comprender ese misterio horrible: sólo entiendo
que de infeliz he pasado a más. (_Sale Teresa_.)

TERESA. Señora, un joven extranjero ha llegado a                  560
casa pidiendo que se le dejara descansar un rato....

ISABEL. Recíbele ... déjame.

TERESA. Ya se le recibió, y le han agasajado con vino
y magras; por señas que nada de ello ha probado, como
si fuera moro o judío. Aparte de esto, es muy lindo               563
muchacho: he trabado conversación con él, y dice que
viene de Palestina.

ISABEL. ¿De Palestina?

TERESA. Yo me acordé al punto del pobre don Diego.
--Como os figuráis que debe estar por allá....                    570

ISABEL. Sí. Llámale pronto. (_Vase Teresa_.) ¡Virgen
piadosa! ¡Que haya sido sueño lo que pienso que oí!
¡Oh! Pensemos en el que viene de Palestina.


           ESCENA X


ZULIMA, en traje de noble aragonés, TERESA.--ISABEL

ZULIMA.    El cielo os guarde.

ISABEL.                      Y a vos
           también.

ZULIMA (_aparte_.) Mi rival es ésta.

ISABEL.    Mejor podéis descansar                                 575
           en esta sala que fuera.

TERESA.    Este mancebo, señora,
           viene de lejanas tierras,
           de Jerusalem, de Jope,
           de Belén ... y de Judea.                               580

ISABEL.    ¿Cierto?

ZULIMA.            Sí.

TERESA.                Y ha conocido
           allá gente aragonesa.

ZULIMA.    Un caballero traté
           de Teruel.

ISABEL.              ¿Cuál? ¿Quién? ¿Quién era?
           ¿Su nombre?

ZULIMA.               Diego Marsilla.                             585

ISABEL.    ¡Os trajo Dios a mi puerta!--
           ¿Dónde le dejáis?

TERESA.                      Entonces,
           ¿era ya rico?

ZULIMA.                 Una herencia
           cuantiosa le dejaron
           allí.

ISABEL.         Pero ¿dónde queda?                                590

ZULIMA.    Hace poco era cautivo
           del Rey moro de Valencia.

ISABEL.    ¡Cautivo! ¡Infeliz!

ZULIMA.                       No tanto.
           La esposa del Rey, la bella
           Zulima, le amó.

ISABEL.                   ¿Le amó?                                595

ZULIMA.    ¡Sí! ¡mucho!

TERESA.                ¡Qué desvergüenza!

ISABEL.    Y ¿qué? ¿ No viene por eso
           Marsilla donde le esperan?

TERESA.    ¿Se ha vuelto moro quizá?

ZULIMA (_aparte_). Ya que padecí, padezca.                        600
           Finjamos.

ISABEL.             Hablad.

ZULIMA.                     No es fácil
           resistir a una princesa
           hermosa y amante: al fin
           Marsilla, para con ella,
           era un miserable.

TERESA.                     Pero
           vamos, acabad....                                      605

ISABEL (_aparte_.)     Apenas
           vivo.

ZULIMA.        El Rey llegó a saber
           lo que pasaba; la Reina
           pudo escapar, protegida
           por un bandido, cabeza                                 610
           de la cuadrilla temible
           que hoy anda por aquí cerca;
           y Marsilla....

ISABEL.                   ¿Qué?

ZULIMA.                         Rogad
           a Dios que le favorezca.

ISABEL.    ¡Ha muerto! ¡Jesús, valedme!                           615
                 (_Desmáyase_.)

TERESA.    ¡Isabel! ¡Isabel!--¡Buena
           la habéis hecho!
ZULIMA. (_aparte_.)    Sabe amar
           esta cristiana de veras;
           yo sé más, yo sé vengarme.

TERESA.    ¡Señora!--¡Paula! ¡Jimena!                             620
                 (_A Zulima_.)
           Buscad agua, llamad gente.

ZULIMA (_aparte_.)
           Salgamos.--Con esta nueva,
           se casará. (_Vase_.)

TERESA.    ¡Dios confunda
           la boca ruin que nos cuenta
           noticia tan triste!... Pero                            625
           un prójimo que no prueba
           cerdo ni vino, ¿qué puede
           dar de sí?

         (_Salen dos criadas que traen agua_.)

                     Pronto aquí, lerdas.
           ¿Dónde estabais? A ver: dadme
           el agua.

ISABEL.           ¡Ay, Dios! ¡Ay, Teresa!                         630


           ESCENA XI


MARGARITA.--ISABEL, TERESA, CRIADAS

MARGARITA. ¿Qué sucede?

ISABEL.                ¡Ay, madre mía!
           Ya no es posible que venga.
           Murió.

MARGARITA.      ¿Quién? ¿Marsilla?

TERESA.                            ¿Quién
           ha de ser?

ISABEL.             Y ha muerto en pena
           de serme infiel.

TERESA.                      Una mora,                            635
           que dicen que no era fea,
           la esposa del reyezuelo
           valenciano, buena pieza
           sin duda, nos le quitó.

ISABEL.    ¡En esto paran aquellas                                640
           ilusiones de ventura
           que alimentaba risueña!
           Conmigo nacieron ¡ay!...
           se van, y el alma se llevan.
           Ese infausto mensajero,                                645
           ¿dónde está? Dile que vuelva.

MARGARITA. Sí: yo le preguntaré....

TERESA.    Pues como nos dé respuestas
           por el estilo.... Seguidme.

            (_Vanse Teresa y las criadas_.)


           ESCENA XII


MARGARITA, ISABEL

ISABEL.    ¿Quién figurarse pudiera                               650
           que me olvidara Marsilla?
           ¡Qué sonrojo! ¡Qué vileza!
           Pero ¿cómo ha sido, cómo
           fué que no lo presintiera
           mi corazón? No es verdad:                              655
           imposible que lo sea.
           Se engañó, si lo creyó,
           la sultana de Valencia.
           Soló por volar a mí,
           quebrantando sus cadenas,                              660
           dejó soñar a la mora
           con esa falaz idea.
           Mártir de mi amor ha sido,
           que desde el cielo en que reina,
           de su martirio me pide                                 665
           la debida recompensa.
           Yo se la daré leal,
           yo defenderé mi diestra:
           viuda del primer amor
           he de bajar a la huesa.                                670
           Llorar libremente quiero
           lo que de vivir me resta,
           sin que pueda hacer ninguno
           de mis lágrimas ofensa.
           No he de ser esposa yo                                 675
           de Azagra: primero muerta.

MARGARITA. ¿Tendrás valor para?...

ISABEL.                            Sí,
           mi desgracia me le presta.

MARGARITA. ¿Y si te manda tu padre?...

ISABEL.    Diré que no.

MARGARITA.             Si te ruega....                            680

ISABEL.    No.

MARGARITA.    Si amenaza....

ISABEL.                       Mil veces
           no. Podrán en hora buena,
           de los cabellos asida,
           arrastrarme hasta la iglesia,
           podrán maltratar mi cuerpo,                            685
           cubrirle de áspera jerga,
           emparedarme en un claustro,
           donde lentamente muera:
           todo esto podrán, sí; pero
           lograr que diga mi lengua                              690
           un sí perjuro, no.

MARGARITA.                   Bien,
           bien. Tu valor ... me consuela.

(_Aparte_. Nada oyó: más vale así.
           La culpa, no la inocencia
           debe padecer.) Ten siempre                             695
           esa misma fortaleza,
           y no te dejes vencer,
           suceda lo que suceda.
           Matrimonio sin cariño
           crímenes tal vez engendra.                             700
           Yo sé de alguna infeliz
           que dió su mano violenta...
           y ... después de larga lucha ...
           desmintió su vida honesta.
           Muchos años lleva ya                                   705
           de dolor y penitencia...
           Y al fin le toca morir,
           de oprobrio justo cubierta.

ISABEL.    ¡Ah, madre! ¿Qué dije yo?
           Me olvidé, con esa nueva,                              710
           de otra desdicha tan grande
           que a mi desdicha supera.

MARGARITA. ¡No te cases, Isabel!

ISABEL.    Sí, madre: mi vida es vuestra:
           dárosla me manda Dios,                                 715
           lo manda naturaleza.

MARGARITA. ¡Hija!

ISABEL.          Por fortuna mía,
           Marsilla al morir me deja
           el corazón sin amor
           y sin lugar donde prenda.                              720
           Por más fortuna, Marsilla
           de mí se olvidó en la ausencia,
           y puso en otra mujer
           el amor que me debiera.
           Por dicha mayor, Azagra                                725
           es de condición soberbia,
           celoso, iracundo: así
           mis lágrimas y querellas
           insufribles le serán;
           querrá que yo las contenga;                            730
           no podré, se irritará,
           y me matará.

MARGARITA.             ¡Me aterras,
           hija, me matas a mí!

ISABEL.    Tengo yo cartas que lea:
           puede encontrármelas.

MARGARITA.                       ¡Oh!                             735
           Si como las tuyas fueran
           otras....

ISABEL.             Y tengo un retrato
           en esta joya. (_Saca un relicario_.)
                       ¿Son ésas
           sus facciones? Pues sabed
           que, sin estudio ni regla,                             740
           de amor guiada la mano,
           al primer ensayo diestra,
           yo supe dar a ese rostro
           semejanza tan perfecta.
           Me sirvió para suplir                                  745
           de Marsilla la presencia;
           no le necesito ya:
           más vale que no le vea.
           ¡Ah! dejadme que le bese
           una vez ... la última es ésta.                         750
           Tomad. ¿Veis? el sacrificio
           consumo, y estoy serena,
           tranquila ... como la tumba.
           Imitad vos mi entereza,
           mi calma ... y no me digáis                            755
           una palabra siquiera.
           De mí vuestra fama pende:
           la conservaréis ilesa.
           Yo me casaré: no importa,
           no importa lo que me cuesta. (_Vase_.)                 760


           ESCENA XIII


MARGARITA

MARGARITA. Y ¿debo yo consentir
           que la inocente Isabel,
           por mi egoísmo cruel,
           se ofrezca más que a morir?
           Pero ¿cómo he de sufrir                                765
           que, perdida mi opinión,
           me llame todo Aragón
           hipócrita y vil mujer?
           Mala madre me hace ser
           mi buena reputación.
           A todo me resignara
           con ánimo ya contrito,
           si al saberse mi delito,
           yo sola me deshonrara.
           Pero a mi esposo manchara                              775
           con ignominia mayor.
          ¡Hija infeliz en amor!
          ¡Hija desdichada mía!
          Perdona la tiranía
          de las leyes del honor.                                 780


          ACTO TERCERO


Retrete o gabinete de Isabel. Dos puertas.


          ESCENA PRIMERA


ISABEL, TERESA

Aparece ISABEL, ricamente vestida, sentada en un sillón junto a una
mesa, sobre la cual hay un espejo de mano, hecho de metal. TERESA
está acabando de adornar a su ama.

TERESA. ¿Qué os parece el tocado? Nada, ni me
oye. Que os miréis os digo; tomad el espejo. (_Se le da
a Isabel, que maquinalmente le toma, y deja caer la mano sin
mirarse_.) A esotra puerta. Miren ¡qué trazas éstas de
novia!--Ved ¡qué preciosa gargantilla voy a poneros!              5
(_Isabel inclina la cabeza_.) Pero alzad la cabeza, Isabel.
Si esto es amortajar a un difunto.

ISABEL. ¡Marsilla!

TERESA. (_Aparte._ Dios le haya perdonado.) Ea, se
concluyó. Bien estáis. Ello, sí, me habéis hecho perder           10
la paciencia treinta veces.

ISABEL. ¡Madre mía!

TERESA. Si echáis menos a mi señora, ya os he dicho
que no está en casa, porque para ella, la caridad es antes
que todo. El juez de este año, Domingo Celladas, tenía            15
un hijo en tierra de infieles: Jaime, ya le conocéis. Hoy,
sin que hubiese noticia de que viniera, se le han encontrado
en el camino de Valencia unos mercaderes, herido y
sin conocimiento. Por un rastro de sangre que iba a parar
a un hoyo, se ha comprendido que debieron echarle                 20
dentro; y se cree que hasta poder salir, habrá estado en
el hoyo quizá más de un día, porque las heridas no son
recientes. Vuestra madre ha sido llamada para asistirle;
me ha encargado que os aderece; os he puesto hecha una
imagen; y ni siquiera he logrado que deis una mirada al           25
vestido, para ver si os gusta.

ISABEL. Sí: es el último.

TERESA. ¡El dulcísimo nombre de Jesús! No lo
quiera Dios, Isabelita de mi alma: no lo querrá Dios;
antes os hará tan dichosa como vos merecéis. Pero                 30
salid de ese abatimiento: mirad que ya van a venir
los convidados a la boda, y es menester no darles que decir.

ISABEL (_con sobresalto_). ¿Qué hora es ya?

TERESA. No tardarán en tocar a vísperas ahí al lado,
en San Pedro. Es la hora en que salió de Teruel don               35
Diego; y hasta que pase, mi señor no se considera libre
de su promesa.

ISABEL. Sí, a esa hora, a esa hora misma partió ...
para nunca volver. En este aposento, allí, delante de ese
balcón estaba yo, llorando sobre mi labor, como ahora             40
sobre mis galas. Continuamente miraba a la calle por
donde había de pasar, para verle; ahora no miro: no
le veré. Por allí vino, dirigiendo el fogoso alazán, enseñado
a parase bajo mis balcones. Por allí vino, vestida
la cota, la lanza en la mano, al brazo la banda, último don       45
de mi cariño. «Hasta la dicha o hasta la tumba,» me dijo.
«Tuya o muerta,» le dije yo; y caí sin aliento en el balcón
mismo, tendidas las manos hacia la mitad de mi alma que
se ausentaba.--¡Suya o muerta! Y voy a dar la mano a
Rodrigo. ¡Bien cumplo mi palabra!                                 50

TERESA. Hija mía, desechad esas ideas. Yo ¿qué
os he de decir para consolaros? Que os he visto nacer,
que habéis jugado en mis brazos y en mis rodillas ... y
que diera yo porque recobraseis la paz del alma y fuerais
feliz ¡ay!, diera yo todos los días que me faltan que vivir,      55
menos uno para verlo.

ISABEL. ¿Feliz, Teresa? Con este vestido, ¿cómo
he de ser feliz? ¡Pesa tanto, me ahoga tanto!...
Quítamele, Teresa. (_Levantándose_.)

TERESA. Señora, que viene don Rodrigo.                            60

ISABEL. ¡Don Rodrigo! Busca pronto a mi madre.
(_Vase Teresa_.)


          ESCENA II

DON RODRIGO.--ISABEL

RODRIGO.  Mis ojos por fin os ven
          a solas, ángel hermoso.
          Siempre un amargo desdén
          y un recato rigoroso                                    65
          me han privado de este bien.
          --Trémula estáis: ocupad
          la silla.

ISABEL.            ¡Ante mi señor!

RODRIGO.  Esclavo diréis mejor.
          Soberana es la beldad                                   70
          en el reino del amor.

ISABEL.   ¡Mentida soberanía!

RODRIGO.  De mi rendimiento fiel,
          que dudarais no creía.
          ¡Si a conocer, Isabel,                                  75
          llegaseis el alma mía!...

ISABEL.   ¿Para qué? Señas ha dado
          que indican su índole bella.

RODRIGO.  Mi destino desastrado
          sólo mostrar me ha dejado                               80
          lo deforme que hay en ella.
          Un Azagra conocéis
          orgulloso y vengativo;
          y otro por fin hallaréis
          que en vuestro rigor esquivo                            85
          figuraros no podéis.
          El Azagra que os adora,
          el Azagra para vos,
          aun no le visteis, señora;
          y nos conviene a los dos                                90
          una explicación ahora.

ISABEL.   Mis padres pueden mandar,
          yo tengo que obedecer,
          nada pretendo saber:
          hiciera bien en callar                                  95
          quien ha logrado vencer.

RODRIGO.  El vencedor, que aparece
          lleno ante vos de amargura,
          manifestaros ofrece
          que sabe lo que merece                                  100
          doña Isabel de Segura.
          Os ví, y en vos admiré
          virtud y belleza rara:
          digno de vos me juzgué,
          y uniros a mí juré,                                     105
          costara lo que costara.
          Maldición más espantosa
          no pudo echarme jamás
          una lengua venenosa
          que decir: no lograrás                                  110
          hacer a Isabel tu esposa.
          Lidiaré, si es necesario,
          por ella con todo el orbe,
          clamaba yo de ordinario.
          ¡Infeliz el que me estorbe,                             115
          competidor o contrario!
          En mi celoso furor
          cabe hasta lo que denigre
          mi calidad y mi honor.
          Amo con ira de tigre ...                                120
          porque es muy grande mi amor.
          --No el vuestro, tan delicado,
          me pintéis para mi mengua:
          quizá no lo haya expresado
          en seis años vuestra lengua,                            125
          sin que me lo hayan contado.
          Cuantas cartas escribió
          Marsilla ausente, leí:
          él su retrato no vió,
          yo sí: junto a vos aquí                                 130
          siempre tuve un guarda yo.
          Ha sido mi ocupación
          observaros noche y día;
          y abandonaba a Monzón
          siempre que lo permitía                                 135
          la marcial obligación.
          Viéndoos al balcón sentada
          por las noches a la luna,
          mi fatiga era pagada:
          jamás fué mujer ninguna                                 140
          de amante más respetada.
          Para romper mis prisiones,
          para defectos hallaros,
          fueron mis indagaciones;
          y siempre para adoraros                                 145
          encontré nuevas razones.
          Seducido el pensamiento
          de lisonjeros engaños,
          un favorable momento
          espero hace ya seis años,                               150
          y aun llegado no lo cuento.
          Pero, por dicha, quizá
          no deba estar muy distante.

ISABEL.   ¡Qué! ¿Pensáis que cesará
          mi pasión, muerto mi amante?                            155
          No, lo que yo vivirá.

RODRIGO.  Pues bien, amad, Isabel,
          y decidlo sin reparo;
          que con ese amor tan fiel,
          aunque a mí me cueste caro,                             160
          nunca me hallaréis cruel.
          Mas si ese afecto amoroso,
          cuya expresión no limito,
          mantener os es forzoso,
          yo, mi bien, yo necesito                                165
          el nombre de vuestro esposo.
          No más que el nombre, y concluyo
          de desear y pedir:
          todas mis dichas incluyo
          en la dicha de decir:                                   170
          «Me tienen por dueño suyo.»
          Separada habitación,
          distinto lecho tendréis....
          ¿Queréis más separación?
          Vos en Teruel viviréis,                                 175
          yo en la corte de Aragón.
          ¿Teméis que la soledad
          bajo mi techo os consuma?
          Vuestros padres os llevad
          con vos: mudaréis en suma                               180
          de casa y de vecindad.
          Nunca sin vuestra licencia
          veré esos divinos ojos....
          ¡Ay! dádmela con frecuencia.
          Si os oprimen los enojos,                               185
          hablad, y mi diligencia
          ya un festín, ya una batida,
          ya un torneo dispondrá.
          Si lloráis.... ¡Prenda querida!
          cuando lloréis, ¿qué os dirá                            190
          quien no ha llorado en su vida?
          Míseros ambos, hacer
          con la indulgencia podemos
          menor nuestro padecer.
          Ahora, aunque nos casemos,                              195
          ¿me podréis aborrecer?

ISABEL.   ¡Don Rodrigo! ¡Don Rodrigo! (_Sollozando_.)

RODRIGO.  ¿Lloráis? ¿Es porque me muestro
          digno de ser vuestro amigo?
          ¿No sufrí del odio vuestro                              200
          bastante el duro castigo?

ISABEL.   ¡Oh! no, no: mi corazón
          palpitar de odio no sabe.

RODRIGO.  Ni al mirar vuestra aflicción
          hay fuerza en mí que no acabe                           205
          rindiéndose a discreción.
          Es ya el caso de manera
          que el infausto desposorio
          viene a ser obligatorio
          para ambos: lo demás fuera                              210
          dar escándalo notorio.
          Pero el amor que os consagro,
          se ha vuelto a vos tan propicio,
          que si Dios en su alto juicio
          quiere obrar hoy un milagro ...                         215
          contad con un sacrificio.
          Ayer, si resucitara
          mi aciago rival Marsilla,
          sin compasión le matara,
          y sin limpiar la cuchilla,                              220
          corriera con vos al ara.
          Hoy, resucitado o no,
          si antes que me deis el sí,
          viene ... que triunfe de mí.

ISABEL.   ¡Vos, sí que triunfáis así                              225
          de esta débil mujer!

(_El llanto le ahoga la voz por unos instantes; luego, al ver a
don Pedro y a los que le acompañan, se contiene, exclamando_:)

                                 ¡Oh!


ESCENA III


DON PEDRO, DON MARTÍN, DAMAS, CABALLEROS, PAJES.--
ISABEL, DON RODRIGO. Después, TERESA

PEDRO. Hijos, el sacerdote que ha de bendecir vuestra
unión, ya nos está esperando en la iglesia. Tanto mis
deudos como los de Azagra me instan a que apresure la
ceremonia; pero aun no ha fenecido el plazo que otorgué           230
a don Diego. Al toque de vísperas de un domingo, salió
de su patria el malogrado joven, seis años y siete días
hace: hasta que suene aquella señal en mi oído, no tengo
libertad para disponer de mi hija. (_A don Martín._)
Porque veáis de qué modo cumplo mi promesa, os he rogado          235
que vinierais aquí.

MARTÍN. ¡Inútil escrupulosidad! No os detengáis.
No romperá mi hijo el seno de la tierra para reconveniros.

ISABEL (_aparte_). ¡Infeliz!

PEDRO. Fiel a lo que juré me verá desde el túmulo,                240
cual me hallaría viviendo. (_Sale Teresa_.)

RODRIGO. Isabel deseará la compañía de su madre:
pudiéramos pasar por casa del Juez....

TERESA. Ahora empezaba el herido a volver en su
conocimiento. Si antes de vísperas no se halla mi señora          245
en la iglesia, es señal de que no puede asistir a los desposorios:
esto me ha dicho.

PEDRO. La esperaremos en el templo. (_A don Martín._)
Si la pesadumbre os permite acompañarnos, venid....

MARTÍN. Excusadme el presenciar un acto que debe                  250
serme tan doloroso.

PEDRO. Estad seguro de que mientras no oigáis las
campanas, no habrá dado su mano Isabel. Estos
caballeros podrán atestiguar que se esperó hasta el cabal
vencimiento del plazo. Marchemos.                                 255

ISABEL (_aparte_). ¡Morada de mi pasado bien, adiós
para siempre!

(_Vanse todos, menos don Martín._)


ESCENA IV


DON MARTÍN

MARTÍN. Con pena, con celos veo yo a Isabel dirigirse
al altar. Hubo un tiempo en que la tuve por hija: hoy
me quitan su filial cariño, y ella consiente. Pero ¿qué           260
falta hace al mísero cadáver de mi hijo la constancia de la
que él amó? Si su sombra necesita lágrimas, bien se
puede satisfacer con las mías.


ESCENA V


ADEL.--DON MARTÍN

ADEL. Cristiano, busco a Martín Marsilla, que está
aquí, según se me dice. ¿Eres tú?                                 265

MARTÍN. Yo soy.

ADEL. ¿Qué sabes de tu hijo?

MARTÍN. ¡Moro!... su muerte.

ADEL. Esa noticia ... ¿quién la ha traído?

MARTÍN. Un joven forastero.                                       270

ADEL. ¿En dónde para?

MARTÍN. Apenas se detuvo en Teruel: yo no pude
verle.

ADEL. ¿Qué ha pasado con Jaime Celladas?

MARTÍN. Le han herido gravemente al llegar a la villa:            275
en su lecho yace todavía sin voz ni conocimiento.

ADEL. Luego ¿tú nada sabes?

MARTÍN. ¿Qué vas a decirme?

ADEL. Acabo de averiguar que, disfrazada con traje
de hombre, ha entrado en Teruel Zulima, la esposa del             280
Amir de Valencia.

MARTÍN. ¿La que fué causa de la pérdida de mi hijo?

ADEL. Él la desdeñó, y ella se ha vengado mintiendo.

MARTÍN. ¿Mintiendo?

ADEL. ¡Anciano! Bendice al Señor: aun eres padre.                 285

MARTÍN. ¡Dios poderoso!

ADEL. Tu hijo libró de un asesinato pérfido al Amir
de Valencia, y el Amir le ha colmado de riquezas y honores.
Herido en un combate, no se le permitió caminar hasta reponerse.
Jaime venía delante para anunciar su vuelta.                      290
Sígueme, y no pararé hasta poner a Marsilla en tus brazos.
(_Vase_.)

MARTÍN (_alzando las manos al cielo, arrebatado de
júbilo_). ¡Señor! ¡Señor!


ESCENA VI


MARGARITA.--DON MARTÍN

MARGARITA (_dentro_). ¡Isabel! ¡Isabel! (_Sale y repara
en don Martín, que se retiraba con Adel_.) Don Martín....         295

MARTÍN (_deteniéndose_). Margarita, sabedlo....

MARGARITA. Sabedlo el primero. Jaime Celladas....

MARTÍN. Ese moro que veis....

MARGARITA. Ha vuelto en sí.

MARTÍN. Viene de Valencia.                                        300

MARGARITA. Jaime también.

MARTÍN. Vive mi hijo.

MARGARITA. Lo ha dicho Jaime. Corred, impedid
ese casamiento. (_Óyese el toque de vísperas_.)

MARTÍN. ¡Ah! ya es tarde.                                         305

MARGARITA. ¡Dios ha rechazado mi sacrificio!

MARTÍN. ¡Hijo infeliz!

MARGARITA. ¡Hija de mis entrañas! (_Vase_.)


ESCENA VII


Bosque inmediato a Teruel

MARSILLA, atado a un árbol

           Infames bandoleros,
           que me habéis a traición acometido,                    310
           venid y ensangrentad vuestros aceros:
           la muerte ya por compasión os pido.
           --Nadie llega, de nadie soy oído;
           vuelve el eco mis voces, y parece
           que goza en mi dolor y me escarnece.                   315
           Me adelanté a la escolta que traía:
           su lento caminar me consumía.
           Yo vengo con amor, ellos con oro.
           --Enemigos villanos,
           los ricos dones del monarca moro                       320
           no como yo darán en vuestras manos:
           tienen quien los defienda.
           Pero las horas pasan, huye el día.
           ¿Qué vas a imaginar, Isabel mía?
           ¿Qué pensarás, idolatrada prenda,                      325
           si esperando abrazar al triste Diego,
           corrido el plazo ves, y yo no llego?
           Mas por Jaime avisados
           en mi casa estarán: pronto, azorados
           con mi tardanza.... Sí, ya se aproxima                 330
           gente. ¿Quién es?


ESCENA VIII


ZULIMA, en traje de hombre.--MARSILLA

ZULIMA.                     Yo soy.

MARSILLA.                      ¡Cielos! ¡Zulima!
          ¡Tú aquí! (_Aparte._ ¡Presagio horrendo!)

ZULIMA.   Vecinos de Teruel vienen corriendo
          a quienes más que a mí toca librarte:
          yo sólo en esta parte                                   335
          me debo detener mientras te digo
          que Isabel es mujer de don Rodrigo.

MARSILLA. ¡Gran Dios!--Mas no: me engañas,
            impostora.

ZULIMA.   Zaén, que llega de Teruel ahora,
          Zaén ha visto dar aquella mano                          340
          tan ansiada por ti.

MARSILLA.                     Finges en vano.
          Tú ignoras que mi próxima llegada
          previno un mensajero.

ZULIMA.   Tú no sabes que un tirador certero
          supo dejar tu previsión burlada,                        345
          saliéndole al camino al mensajero.
          Yo hablé con Isabel, yo de tu muerte
          la noticia le dí, y a los bandidos
          encargué que tu viaje detuvieran.
          Yo, celebradas de Isabel las bodas,                     350
          te las vengo a anunciar.

MARSILLA.                      ¿Con que es ya tarde?

ZULIMA.   Mírame, bien, y dúdalo si puedes.
          Inútiles mercedes
          el Rey te prodigó: más he podido,
          prófuga yo, que mi real marido.                         355
          Yo mi amor te ofrecí, bienes y honores,
          y te inmolé mi fe y el ser que tengo;
          tú preferiste ingrato mis rencores:
          me ofendiste cruel, cruel me vengo.
          Adiós: en mi partida                                    360
          te dejo por ahora con la vida,
          mientras padeces en el duro potro
          de ver a tu Isabel en brazos de otro. (_Vase_.)


ESCENA IX


MARSILLA

MARSILLA. Monstruo, por cuya voz ruge el abismo,
          vuelve y di que es engaño                               365
          todo lo que te oí. (_Forceja para desatarse_.)
                              Lazos crueles,
          ¿cómo me resistís? ¡Ligan cordeles
          al que hierros quebró! ¿No soy el mismo?
          ¡Ah! no. Mujer fatal, cortos instantes
          me quedan que vivir, si no has mentido;                 370
          pero ¡permita Dios que mueras antes!


ESCENA X


ADEL, pasando por una altura.--MARSILLA

ADEL.     Rumor aquí he sentido.
          Atraviesan el valle bandoleros
          con Zulima a caballo.
          Yo, cueste lo que cueste,                               375
          la tengo de prender: voy a ver si hallo
          cerca mis compañeros.

MARSILLA. ¿Quién va?

ADEL.               Marsilla es éste. (_A voces_.)
          Aquí! ¡Por este lado, caballeros! (_Vase_.)


ESCENA XI


DON MARTÍN, CABALLEROS, CRIADOS.--MARSILLA

MARTÍN (_dentro_.) Él es.

MARSILLA.                     ¡Mi padre!

VOCES (_dentro_.)                  Él es.

MARSILLA.                                       ¡Padre!

MARTÍN (_dentro_.)                     ¡Hijo mío¡                 380
          Subid, corred, volad: libradle pronto.

           (_Salen caballeros y criados_.)
MARSILLA. Desatadme, decidme....

               (_Desatan a Marsilla_.)

MARTÍN (_saliendo_.)                  ¡Hijo querido!

MARSILLA. ¡Padre!

MARTÍN.           Por fin te hallé.

MARSILLA.                        Decid.... ¿Es tarde?
          Yo quisiera dudar ... mi mal ¿es cierto?

MARTÍN.   Respóndante las lágrimas que vierto.                    385
          Hijo del alma, a quien su hierro ardiente
          la desgracia al nacer marcó en la frente,
          tu triste padre, que por verte vive,
          con dolor en sus brazos te recibe.
          ¿Quién tu llegada ha retardado?

MARSILLA.                               El cielo ...              390
          el inferno ... no sé ... facinerosos ...
          una mujer ... dejadme.

MARTÍN.                         ¿La Sultana?
          ¿Esos bandidos que cobardes huyen
          de los guerreros que conmigo traje?--
          ¿Te han herido?

MARSILLA.                ¡Ojalá!

MARTÍN                           ¿Te han despojado?               395

MARSILLA. Nada he perdido: la esperanza sólo.

MARTÍN.   ¡Suerte cruel! Cuando el fatal sonido
          de la campana término ponía....

MARSILLA. ¡Esa tigre anunció la muerte mía!

MARTÍN.   ¿Lo sabes?

MARSILLA.           De ella.

MARTÍN.                     ¡Horror! Entonces era                 400
          cuando Jaime, el sentido recobrando,
          la traidora noticia desmentía.
          Corro al templo a saber.... Miro, enmudezco....
          ¡Eran esposos ya! Tu bien perdiste...
          Dios lo ha querido así... Pero aun te quedan            405
          padres que lloren tu destino triste.

MARSILLA. El ajeno dolor no quita el mío.
          ¿Con qué llenáis el hórrido vacío
          que el alma siente, de su bien privada?
          ¡Padre! sin Isabel, para Marsilla                       410
          no hay en el mundo nada.
          Por eso en mi doliente desvarío
          sed bárbara de sangre me devora.
          Verterla a ríos para hartarme quiero,
          y cuando más que derramar no tenga,                     415
          la de mis venas soltará mi acero.

MARTÍN.   Hijo, modera ese furor.

MARSILLA.                         ¿Quién osa
          hijo llamarme ya? ¡Fuera ese nombre!
          La desventura quiebra
          los vínculos del hombre con el hombre,                  420
          y con la vida y la virtud. Ahora,
          que tiemble mi rival, tiemble la mora.
          Breve será su victorioso alarde:
          para acabar con ambos aun no es tarde.

MARTÍN.   ¡Desgraciado! ¿qué intentas?

MARSILLA.                              Con el crimen              423
          el crimen castigar. Una serpiente
          se me enreda en los pies: mi pie destroce
          su garganta infernal. Un enemigo
          me aparta de Isabel: desaparezca.

MARTÍN.   Hijo....

MARSILLA.           Perecerá

MARTÍN.                      No....

MARSILLA.                          ¡Maldecido                     430
          mi nombre sea, si la sangre odiosa
          de mi rival no vierto!

MARTÍN.                         Es poderoso....

MARSILLA. Marsilla soy.

MARTÍN.                 Mil deudos le acompañan....

MARSILLA. Mi furia a mí.

MARTÍN.                  Merézcate respeto
          ese lazo....

MARSILLA.               Es sacrílego, es aleve.                   435

MARTÍN.   En presencia de Dios formado ha sido.

MARSILLA. Con mi presencia queda destruído.


          ACTO CUATRO


Habitación de Isabel en la casa de don Rodrigo. Dos puertas a la
izquierda del espectador, una en el fondo, y una ventana sin reja a la
derecha.


          ESCENA PRIMERA


DON PEDRO, DON MARTÍN

PEDRO.    Ya cesó la vocería.

MARTÍN.   Ya se tranquiliza el pueblo.
          Zaén en la cárcel queda
          con los demás bandoleros.

PEDRO.    Milagro ha sido salvarlos                               5
          mayor que lo fué prenderlos.

MARTÍN.   Y no los prenden quizá,
          si no acuden tan a tiempo
          los moros que de Valencia
          con los regalos vinieron                                10
          de su Rey para mi hijo.
          ¡Regalos ya sin provecho!
          ¡Castigue Dios a quien tiene
          la culpa!

PEDRO.                   ¡Oh! lo hará.--Primero
          que vayamos esta noche                                  15
          los dos al Ayuntamiento,
          donde ya deben hallarse
          juntos el Juez y mi yerno,
          ¿tendréis, don Martín, a bien
          que los dos conferenciemos                              20
          un rato?

MARTÍN.            Hablad.

PEDRO.                     Aquí está
          Zulima.

MARTÍN.            Bien me dijeron
          los moros.

PEDRO.              En esta calle
          arremetió con los presos
          un tropel de gente; y ella,                             25
          puesta en libertad en medio
          del tumulto, se arrojó
          por estas puertas adentro.

MARTÍN.   Confesad que don Rodrigo
          la salvó.

PEDRO.             No lo confieso ...                             30
          porque no lo ví.

MARTÍN                     Yo, en suma,
          no diré que fué mal hecho:
          él debe a la mora estar
          agradecido en extremo:
          por ella logra la mano                                  35
          de Isabel.

PEDRO.               Resentimiento
          justo mostráis; pero yo,
          que he sido enemigo vuestro,
          necesito de vos hoy.

MARTÍN.   Aquí me tenéis, don Pedro.                              40

PEDRO.    Sois quien sois.--Esa mujer
          nos pone en terrible aprieto.
          Ya veis, los moros reclaman
          su entrega con mucho empeño.

MARTÍN.   Y mientras el Juez resuelve,                            45
          cercada se ve por ellos
          esta casa.

PEDRO.    Y bien, ¿quisierais
          que entre vos y yo de un riesgo
          libráramos a Teruel?

MARTÍN.   Crimen fuera no quererlo.                               50

PEDRO.    Si en la junta de la villa
          negamos, como debemos,
          la entrega de la Sultana,
          va a ser enemigo nuestro
          el Rey de Valencia, y puede                             55
          gravísimo daño hacernos.

MARTÍN.   Y el que recibimos ambos
          de su mujer, ¿es pequeño?

PEDRO.    Pero es mujer, y nosotros
          cristianos y caballeros.                                60

MARTÍN.   Proseguid.

PEDRO.    El compromiso
          queda evitado, si hacemos
          que huya en el instante.

MARTÍN.   Hagámoslo.
          --Págueme Dios el esfuerzo
          que me cuesta no vengarme.                              65
          Disponed.

PEDRO.             Con un pretexto
          llevad los moros de aquí:
          de vos harán caso.

MARTÍN.                     Creo
          que sí.

PEDRO.            Lo demás es fácil.
          Puesta ya en salvo, diremos                             70
          que ella huyó por sí.

MARTÍN.                        Voy pues,
          y ya que la mano tiendo
          al uno de los autores
          de mi desventura, quiero
          dársela también al otro.                                75
          Decid al dichoso dueño
          de esta casa y de Isabel,
          que mire en estos momentos
          por su vida: que mi hijo
          va, loco de sentimiento                                 80
          y de furor, en su busca
          por Teruel; y, ¡vive el cielo
          que, doliente como está,
          valor le sobra al mancebo
          para vengar!... Perdonadme.                             85
          Adiós. Voy a complaceros,
          y a buscarle y conducirle
          esta noche misma lejos
          de unos lugares en donde
          vivimos los dos muriendo.                               90

(_Vase por la puerta de la izquierda, más cercana al proscenio_.)

PEDRO.     Id con Dios.--¡Padre infeliz!
           ¿Y nosotros? Me estremezco
           al pensar en Isabel,
           cuando de todo el suceso
           llegue a enterarse.


           ESCENA II


TERESA.--DON PEDRO

TERESA (_dentro_).      ¡Favor,                                   95
           que me vienen persiguiendo! (_Sale._)

PEDRO.     ¡Teresa! ¿Qué hay? ¿Quién te sigue?

TERESA.    Las ánimas del infierno...
           Las del purgatorio... No
           sé cuáles; pero las veo,                               100
           las oigo....

PEDRO.                  Mas ¿qué sucede?

TERESA.    ¡Ay! Muerta de susto vengo.
           ¡Ay!--Isabel me ha enviado
           por mi señora corriendo,
           que volvió, no sé por qué,                             105
           a la casa del enfermo;
           y antes de llegar, he visto
           en un callejón estrecho,
           junto a la ermita caída...
           ¡Jesús! convulsa me vuelvo                             110
           a casa.

PEDRO.           ¿Qué viste? Di.

TERESA.    Una fantasma, un espectro
           todo parecido, todo,
           al pobrecito don Diego.

PEDRO.     Calla: no te oiga Isabel.                              115
           Guarda con ella silencio.--
           Marsilla ha venido, y ella
           no lo sabe.

TERESA.                 Pero, ¿es cierto
           que vive?

PEDRO.              ¿No ha de ser?

TERESA.                            ¡Ay!
           Pues otra desgracia temo.                              120

PEDRO.     ¿Cuál?

TERESA.          No lo aseguraré,
           por si es aprensión del miedo;
           sin embargo, yo creí
           ver que se llevaba el muerto
           asido del brazo al novio.                              125

PEDRO.     ¿Qué dices?

TERESA.               Aun traigo el eco
           de su voz en los oídos.
           Con alarido tremendo
           decía: «Vas a morir,
           has de morir.»--«Lo veremos,»                          130
           replicaba don Rodrigo;
           y echando votos y retos,
           iban los dos como rayos
           camino del cementerio.
           Yo, señor, ya les recé                                 135
           la salve y el padre nuestro
           en latín.

PEDRO.              Se han encontrado,
           y van a tener un duelo.
           Esto es antes.


ESCENA III


ISABEL, por la segunda puerta del lado izquierdo.--DON PEDRO,
TERESA

ISABEL.          ¡ Padre!

PEDRO.                    Aguárdame
           aquí: pronto volveremos                                140
           tu madre, tu esposo y yo.
           Venid, Teresa. (_Vase los dos._)

ISABEL.                   ¿Qué es esto?
           ¡Mi padre me deja sola,
           cuando con tanto secreto
           un moro me quiere hablar!                              145
           Sin duda están sucediendo
           cosas extrañas aquí.

         (_Acércase a la segunda puerta._)

           Llegad. Al mirarle, tiemblo.


ESCENA IV


ADEL.--ISABEL

ADEL.      Cristiana, brillante honor
           de las damas de tu ley,                                150
           yo imploro, en nombre del Rey
           de Valencia, tu favor.

ISABEL.    ¿Mi favor?

ADEL.                Tendrás noticia
           de que salió de su corte
           Zulima, su infiel consorte,                            155
           huyendo de su justicia.

ISABEL.    Sí.

ADEL.         Mi señor decretó
           con rectitud musulmana
           castigar a la Sultana,
           ya que a Marsilla premió.                              160

ISABEL.    ¡Premiar!... ¿Ignoras, cruel,
           que le dió muerte sañuda?

ADEL.      Tú no le has visto, sin duda,
           entrar como yo en Teruel.

ISABEL.    ¡Marsilla en Teruel!

ADEL.                          Sí.

ISABEL.                           Mira                            165
           si te engañas.

ADEL.                     Mal pudiera.
           Infórmate de cualquiera,
           y mátenme, si es mentira.

ISABEL.    No es posible.--¡Ah! ¡sí! que siendo
           mal, no es imposible nada.                             170

ADEL.      Por la villa alborotada
           tu nombre va repitiendo.

ISABEL.    ¡Eterno Dios! ¡Qué infelices
           nacimos!--¿Cuándo ha llegado?
           ¿Cómo es que me lo han callado?                        175
           --Y tú, ¿por qué me lo dices?

ADEL.      Porque estás, a mi entender,
           en grave riesgo quizá.

ISABEL.    Perdido Marsilla, ya
           ¿qué bien tengo que perder?                            180

ADEL.      Con viva lástima escucho
           tus ansias de amor extremas;
           pero aunque tú nada temas,
           yo debo decirte mucho.
           Marsilla a mi Rey salvó                                185
           de unos conjurados moros,
           y el Rey vertió sus tesoros
           en él, y aquí le envió.
           El despreció la liviana
           inclinación de la infiel....                           190

ISABEL.    ¡Oh! ¡Sí!

ADEL.              Y airada con él
           vino, y se vengó villana
           contando su falso fin.

ISABEL.    ¡Ella!

ADEL.           Con una gavilla
           de bandidos, a Marsilla                                195
           detuvo, ya en el confín
           de Teruel, donde veloces
           corriendo en tropel armado,
           le hallamos a un tronco atado,
           socorro pidiendo a voces.                              200

ISABEL.    Calla, moro: no más.

ADEL.                         Pasa
           más, y es bien que te aperciba.
           --La Sultana fugitiva
           se ha refugiado en tu casa:
           en ésta.

ISABEL.           ¡Aquí mi rival!                                 205

ADEL.      Tu esposo la libertó.

ISABEL.    ¡Ella donde habito yo!

ADEL.      Guárdate de su puñal.
           Por celos allá en Valencia
           matar a Marsilla quiso.                                210

ISABEL.    A tiempo llega el aviso.

ADEL.      Confirma tú la sentencia
           que justo lanzó el Amir.
           Por esa mujer malvada
           para siempre separada                                  215
           de Marsilla has de vivir.
           Ella te arrastra al odioso
           tálamo de don Rodrigo.
           Envíala tú conmigo
           al que le apresta su esposo,                           220
           pena digna del ultraje
           que siente.

ISABEL.                Sí, moro; salga
           pronto de aquí, no le valga
           el fuero del hospedaje.
           Como perseguida fiera                                  225
           entró en mi casa: pues bien,
           al cazador se la den,
           que la mate donde quiera.
           Mostrarse de pecho blando
           con ella, fuera rayar                                  230
           en loca: voy a mandar
           que la traigan arrastrando.
           Sean de mi furia jueces
           cuantas pierdan lo que pierdo.
           ¡Jesús! Cuando yo recuerdo                             235
           que hoy pude... ¡Jesús mil veces!
           No le ha de valer el llanto,
           ni el ser mujer, ni ser bella,
           ni reina. ¡Si soy por ella
           tan infeliz! ¡tanto, tanto!...                         240
           Dime, pues, di: tu señor,
           ¿qué suplicio le impondrá?

ADEL.      Una hoguera acabará
           con su delincuente amor.

ISABEL.    ¡Su amor! ¡Amor desastrado!                            245
           Pero es amor....

ADEL.                       Y ¿es bastante
           esa razón?...

ISABEL.                 ¡Es mi amante
           tan digno de ser amado!
           Le vió, le debió querer
           en viéndole.--¡Y yo, que hacía                         250
           tanto que no le veía ...
           y ya no le puedo ver!
           --Moro, la víctima niego
           que me vienes a pedir:
           quiero yo darle a sufrir                               255
           castigo mayor que el fuego:
           ella con feroz encono
           mi corazón desgarró ...
           me asesina el alma ... yo
           la defiendo, la perdono. (_Vase._)                     260


           ESCENA V


ADEL

           He perdido la ocasión.
           Suele tener esta gente
           acciones, que de un creyente
           propias en justicia son.
           Yo dejara con placer                                   265
           este empeño abandonado;
           pero el Amir lo ha mandado,
           y es forzoso obedecer. (_Vase._)


           ESCENA VI


MARSILLA, por la ventana

           Jardín ... una ventana ... y ella luego.
           Jardín abierto hallé y hallé ventana;                  270
           mas ¿dónde está Isabel?--Dios de clemencia,
           detened mi razón, que se me escapa;
           detenedme la vida, que parece
           que de luchar con el dolor se cansa.
           Siete días hace hoy, ¡qué venturoso                    275
           era en aquel salón! Sangre manaba
           de mi herida, es verdad; pero agolpados
           al rededor de mi lujosa cama,
           la tierna historia de mi amor oían
           los guerreros, el pueblo y el Monarca,                 280
           y entre piadoso llanto y bendiciones
           «tuya será Isabel» juntos clamaban
           súbditos y señor. Hoy no me ofende
           mi herida, rayos en mi diestra lanza
           el damasquino acero... No le traigo...                 285
           ¡Y hace un momento que con dos me hallaba!
           --Salvo en Teruel y vencedor, ¿qué angustia
           viene a ser ésta que me rinde el alma,
           cuando, acabada la cruel ausencia,
           voy a ver a Isabel?


ESCENA VII


ISABEL.--MARSILLA

ISABEL.                       Por fin se encarga                  290
           mi madre de Zulima.

MARSILLA.                     ¡Cielo santo!

ISABEL.    ¡Gran Dios!

MARSILLA.            ¿No es ella?

ISABEL.                        ¡Él es!

MARSILLA.                            ¡Prenda adorada!

ISABEL.    ¡Marsilla!

MARSILLA.            ¡Gloria mía!

ISABEL.                          ¿Cómo ¡ay! cómo
           te atreves a poner aquí la planta?
           Si te han visto llegar... ¿A qué has venido?           295

MARSILLA.  Por Dios ... que lo olvidé. Pero ¿no basta,
           para que hacia Isabel vuele Marsilla,
           querer, deber, necesitar mirarla?
           ¡Oh! ¡qué hermosa a mis ojos te presentas!
           Nunca te ví tan bella, tan galana...                   300
           Y un pesar sin embargo indefinible
           me inspiran esas joyas, esas galas.
           Arrójalas, mi bien; lana modesta,
           cándida flor, en mi jardín criada,
           vuelvan a ser tu virginal adorno:                      305
           mi amor se asusta de riqueza tanta.

ISABEL. (_Aparte._ ¡Delira el infeliz! Sufrir no puedo
           su dolorida, atónita mirada.)
           ¿No entiendes lo que indica el atavío,
           que no puedes mirar sin repugnancia?                   310
           Nuestra separación.

MARSILLA.                     ¡Poder del cielo!
           Sí. ¡Funesta verdad!

ISABEL.                         Estoy casada.

MARSILLA.  Ya lo sé. Llegué tarde. Ví la dicha,
           tendí las manos, y voló al tocarla.

ISABEL.    Me engañaron: tu muerte supusieron                     315
           Y tu infidelidad.

MARSILLA.                   ¡Horrible infamia!

ISABEL.    Yo la muerte creí.

MARSILLA.                    Si tú vivías,
           y tu vida y la mía son entrambas
           una sola, no más, la que me alienta,
           ¿cómo de ti sin ti se separara?                        320
           Juntos aquí nos desterró la mano
           que gozo y pena distribuye sabia:
           juntos al fin de la mortal carrera
           nos toca ver la celestial morada.

ISABEL.    ¡Oh! ¡si me oyera Dios!...

MARSILLA.                            Isabel, mira,                325
           yo no vengo a dar quejas: fueran vanas.
           Yo no vengo a decirte que debiera
           prometerme de ti mayor constancia,
           cumplimiento mejor del tierno voto
           que invocando a la Madre inmaculada,                   330
           me hiciste amante la postrera noche
           que me apartó de tu balcón el alba.
           «Para ti (sollozando me decías),
           o si no, para Dios.»--¡Dulce palabra,
           consoladora fiel de mis pesares                        335
           en los ardientes páramos del Asia
           y en mi cautividad! Hoy ni eres mía,
           ni esposa del Señor. Di, pues, declara
           (esto quiero saber) de qué ha nacido
           el prodigio infeliz de tu mudanza.                     340
           Causa debe tener.

ISABEL.                     La tiene.

MARSILLA.                            Grande.

ISABEL.    Poderosa, invencible: no se casa
           quien amaba cual yo, sino cediendo
           a la fuerza mayor en fuerza humana.

MARSILLA.  Dímelo pronto, pues, dilo.

ISABEL.                               Imposible.                  345
           No has de saberlo.

MARSILLA.                     Sí.

ISABEL.                           No.

MARSILLA.                            Todo.

ISABEL.                                    Nada.
           Pero tú en mi lugar también el cuello
           dócil a la coyunda sujetaras.

MARSILLA.  Yo no, Isabel, yo no. Marsilla supo
           despreciar una mano soberana                           350
           y la muerte arrostrar por quien ahora
           la suya vende y el porqué le calla.

ISABEL.    (_Aparte._ ¡Madre, madre!)

MARSILLA.                                 Responde.

ISABEL.                        (_Aparte._ ¿Qué le digo?)
           Tendré que confesar ... que soy culpada.
           ¿Cómo no lo he de ser? Me ves ajena.                   355
           Perdóname... Castígame por falsa,
                  (_Llora._)

           mátame, si es tu gusto... Aquí me tienes
           para el golpe mortal arrodillada.

MARSILLA.  Ídolo mío, no; yo sí que debo
           poner mis labios en tus huellas. Alza.                 360
           No es de arrepentimiento el lloro triste
           que esos luceros fúlgidos empaña;
           ese llanto es de amor, yo lo conozco,
           de amor constante, sin doblez, sin tacha,
           ferviente, abrasador, igual al mío.                    365
           ¿No es verdad, Isabel? Dímelo franca:
           va mi vida en oírtelo.

ISABEL.                           ¿Prometes
           obedecer a tu Isabel?

MARSILLA.                       ¡Ingrata!
           ¿Cuándo me rebelé contra tu gusto?
           Mi voluntad, ¿no es tuya? Dispon, habla.               370

ISABEL.    Júralo.

MARSILLA.         Sí.

ISABEL.              Pues bien... Yo te amo.--Vete.

MARSILLA.  ¡Cruel! ¿Temiste que ventura tanta
           me matase a tus pies, si su dulzura
           con venenosa hiel no iba mezclada?
           ¿Cómo esas dos ideas enemigas                          375
           de destierro y de amor hiciste hermanas?

ISABEL.    Ya lo ves, no soy mía; soy de un hombre
           que me hace de su honor depositaria,
           y debo serle fiel. Nuestros amores
           mantuvo la virtud libres de mancha:                    380
           su pureza de armiño conservemos.--
           Aquí hay espinas, en el cielo palmas.
           Tuyo es mi amor y lo será: tu imagen
           siempre en el pecho llevaré grabada,
           y allí la adoraré: yo lo prometo,                      385
           yo lo juro; mas huye sin tardanza.
           Libértame de ti, sé generoso:
           libértame de mí....

MARSILLA.                      No sigas, basta.
           ¿Quieres que huya de ti? Pues bien, te dejo.
           Valor ... y separémonos.--En paga,                     390
           en recuerdo si no, de tantas penas
           con gozo por tu amor sobrellevadas,
           permite, Isabel mía, que te estrechen
           mis brazos una vez....

ISABEL.                          Deja a la esclava
           cumplir con su señor.

MARSILLA.                       Será el abrazo                    395
           de un hermano dulcísimo a su hermana,
           el ósculo será que tantas veces
           cambió feliz en la materna falda
           nuestro amor infantil.

ISABEL.                           No lo recuerdes.

MARSILLA.  Ven....

ISABEL.           No: jamás.

MARSILLA.                   En vano me rechazas.                  400

ISABEL.    Detente ... o llamo....

MARSILLA.                 ¿A quién? ¿A don Rodrigo?
           No te figures que a tu grito salga.
           No lisonjeros plácemes oyendo,
           su vanidad en el estrado sacia,
           no; lejos de los muros de la villa                     405
           muerde la tierra que su sangre baña.

ISABEL.    ¡Qué horror! ¿Le has muerto?

MARSILLA.                        ¡Pérfida! ¿te afliges?
           Si lo llego a pensar, ¿quién le librara?

ISABEL.    ¿Vive?

MARSILLA.        Merced a mi nobleza loca,
           vive: apenas cruzamos las espadas,                     410
           furiosa en él se encarnizó la mía:
           un momento después, hundido estaba
           su orgullo en tierra, en mi poder su acero.
           ¡Oh! ¡maldita destreza de las armas!
           ¡Maldito el hombre que virtudes siembra                415
           que le rinden cosecha de desgracias!
           No más humanidad, crímenes quiero.
           A ser cruel tu crueldad me arrastra,
           y en ti la he de emplear. Conmigo ahora
           vas a salir de aquí.

ISABEL.                        ¡No, no!

MARSILLA.                              Se trata                   420
           de salvarte, Isabel. ¿Sabes qué dijo
           el cobarde que lloras desolada,
           al caer en la lid? «Triunfante quedas;
           pero mi sangre costará bien cara.»

ISABEL.    ¿Qué dijo? ¿Qué?

MARSILLA.                  «Me vengaré en don Pedro,              425
           en su esposa, en los tres: guardo las cartas.»

ISABEL.    ¡Jesús!

MARSILLA.         ¿Qué cartas son?...

ISABEL.                       ¡Tú me has perdido!
           La desventura sigue tus pisadas.
           ¿Dónde mi esposo está? Dímelo pronto,
           para que fiel a socorrerle vaya,                       430
           y a fuerza de rogar venza sus iras.

MARSILLA.  ¡Justo Dios! Y ¡decía que me amaba!

ISABEL.    ¿Con su pasión funesta reconvienes
           a la mujer del vengativo Azagra?
           ¡Te aborrezco! (_Vase._)


ESCENA VIII


MARSILLA

MARSILLA.              ¡Gran Dios! Ella lo dice.                  435
           Con furor me lo dijo: no me engaña.
           Ya no hay amor allí. Mortal veneno
           su boca me arrojó, que al fondo pasa
           de mi seno infeliz, y una por una,
           rompe, rompe, me rompe las entrañas.                   440
           Yo con ella, por ella, para ella
           viví... Sin ella, sin su amor, me falta
           aire que respirar... ¡Era amor suyo
           el aire que mi pecho respiraba!
           Me le negó, me le quitó: me ahogo,                     445
           no sé vivir.

VOCES (_dentro._)    Entrad, cercad la casa.


ESCENA IX


ISABEL, trémula y precipitada.--MARSILLA

ISABEL.    Huye, que viene gente, huye.

MARSILLA (_todo trastornado_).    No puedo.

VOCES (_dentro_). ¡Muera, muera!

MARSILLA.                            Eso sí.

ISABEL.                                     Ven.

MARSILLA.               ¡Dios me valga!

(_Isabel le ase la mano y se entra con él por la puerta del
fondo._)


ESCENA X


ADEL, huyendo de varios CABALLEROS, con espadas desnudas;
DON PEDRO, MARGARITA, CRIADOS.--ISABEL y MARSILLA dentro.

CABALLEROS. ¡Muera, muera!

PEDRO Y MARGARITA.         Escuchad.

ADEL.                                Aragoneses,
           yo la sangre vertí de la Sultana;                      450
           pero el Rey de Valencia, esposo suyo,
           tras ella me envió para matarla.
           Consorte criminal, amante impía,
           la muerte de Marsilla maquinaba,
           la muerte de Isabel....

ISABEL (_dentro_).            ¡Ay!

ADEL.                                  Ved en prueba              455
           esta punta sutil envenenada.
           (_Muestra el puñal de Zulima._)
           Marsilla lo que digo corrobore:
           cerca de aquí ha de estar.

(_Ábrese la puerta del fondo, y sale por ella Isabel, que se
arroja en brazos de Margarita. Marsilla aparece caído
en un escaño._)


ESCENA XI


ISABEL.--DICHOS

ISABEL.            ¡Madre del alma!

ADEL.      Vedle allí....

MARGARITA.              ¡Santo Dios!

PEDRO.                             Inmóvil....

ISABEL.                                     ¡Muerto!

ADEL.      Cumplió Zulima su feroz venganza.                      460

ISABEL.    No le mató la vengativa mora.
           Donde estuviera yo, ¿quién le tocara?
           Mi desgraciado amor, que fué su vida ...
           su desgraciado amor es quien le mata.
           Delirante le dije: «Te aborrezco»:                     465
           él creyó la sacrílega palabra,
           y expiró de dolor.

MARGARITA.                   Por todo el cielo ...

ISABEL.    El cielo que en la vida nos aparta,
           nos unirá en la tumba.

PEDRO.                            ¡Hija!

ISABEL.                                  Marsilla
           un lugar a su lado me señala.                          470

MARGARITA. ¡Isabel!

PEDRO.             ¡Isabel!

ISABEL.                    Mi bien, perdona
           mi despecho fatal. Yo te adoraba.
           Tuya fuí, tuya soy: en pos del tuyo
           mi enamorado espíritu se lanza.

(_Dirígese adonde está el cadáver de Marsilla; pero antes de
llegar, cae sin aliento con los brazos tendidos hacia su
amante._)


FIN DEL DRAMA


NOTES


ACTO PRIMERO

7-8. #que ... el pie = que te ve colocar el pie orillas (a la orilla) de
un precipicio.#

17. #al ser#, _on becoming, when he became_.

33-34. #para vivir ... los tres = para que vivamos los tres con
opulencia.#

48. #costara#, an example of the frequent use of the imperfect
subjunctive for the conditional in this play.

57. #¿Qué habrá escrito...?# Note use of future to express
conjecture. _What can he have written...?_

87. #Mira ... dice#, _see whether it says_.

90. #en el encierro aquel = en aquel encierro.#

106-107. #ve a buscarme#; literally, _go to find me_; translate:
_come to me_.

113. #volvió = volvió en sí#, _he has come to himself, has regained
consciousness_.

115-116. #De aquella ... hecho = está hecho (acostumbrado) a las
tinieblas de aquella horrible mansión.#

135-136. #desde hoy ... aflija = desde hoy no permitiré que te aflija
ningún afán.#

140. #azorado#. Note that in poetry predicate adjectives or past
participles are frequently used instead of adverbs.

147. #Haz ... vea = haz que yo vea a mi bienhechora.#

155. #Defienda#, _may Heaven protect_, etc.

162. #más = es más hermoso.#

179-180. #No es ... mora = lo más (importante) no es que la noble
princesa mora me redima.#

191 et seq. In the first edition of the play Marsilla begins the account
of his adventures thus:

          Mi nombre es Diego Marsilla,
          y cuna Teruel me dió,
          ciudad que ayer se fundó
          del Turia en la fresca orilla.

In the interest of accuracy of detail the author changed this to the
reading of the present text. The river flowing past Teruel changes its
name from Guadalaviar to Turia only after it has left Teruel behind.
Moreover, Teruel was, strictly speaking, _villa_ at the time of the
supposed action of the play, and not _ciudad_: the title _ciudad_ was
not granted to it by the King of Aragon until the year 1347.

193. #Ayer se fundó.# Destroyed by the Moors, Teruel was rebuilt in
1171, forty-six years earlier. In the life of a city, a generation seems
but a day.

195-197. #cuyos muros ... pobladores = cuyos muros, levantados entre
horrores de lid atroz, fueron amasados con la sangre de sus fuertes
pobladores.#

199-226. In these lines the idea of "predestined love" is exemplified.

204. #sus#, _their_ (#del hombre y de la mujer#).

213-214. #antes ... vernos = antes de vernos, nos amábamos.#

219-222. A similar idea was expressed in the corresponding four lines of
the first edition thus:

          Y parecía un querer
          tan firme en alma de niño,
          recuerdo de otro cariño
          tenido antes de nacer.

223-226. These four lines may be translated thus: _the love that united
Isabel and me_ (#nuestro querer#) _when we came into this sad world
was merely the continuance_ (#seguir#) _in the physical world of the
love that already existed in the spiritual_. Compare idea expressed by
"marriages are made in heaven."

246. #aun vivo#; if the time were up, either I should have succeeded
or should now be dead.

254. #Navas de Tolosa#, village in the Province of Jaén, in the south
of Spain, famous in history because of the decisive victory gained
there, July 16, 1212, by the allied kings of Christian Spain over the
Moslems. In the first edition, at the mention of this disastrous defeat
of the Moors, Zulima interrupts Marsilla's narrative with an outburst of
feeling quite appropriate in a Mohammedan:

          ¡Lugar maldito del cielo,
          donde la negra fortuna
          postró de la media luna
          la pujanza por el suelo!

258 et seq. In the early years of the 13th century a religious sect in
the south of France, the Albigenses, rebelled against the authority of
the Church of Rome. Pope Innocent III proclaimed a crusade against them
in 1208, and a bloody war began in which the crusaders were led by the
ruthless Simon de Montfort until his death at the siege of Toulouse
(1218). During this Albigensian War (1208-1229) Beziers and other
important cities in the south of France were almost destroyed.

267-270. #Y en pena ... sepultó = y en pena de que mi mano rompió el
hierro de mis cadenas, profundo encierro me sepultó en vida.#

281. #haz por escuchar atento#, _try to listen attentively to_ ...

293. #aquí#, in the land of the Moors.

303. #Respuesta ... dé = es bien que se le dé a ella respuesta.#

311-312. #Medita ... reclama#, _consider it well and you will grant
to time what it demands as its due_. If you take into consideration the
length of time that has passed since you have seen Isabel, you will
realize that she has probably forgotten you, and will become reconciled
to changed conditions because of the lapse of time.

321. #dada ... recibida#, _having given my love and having received
hers_; or, _having given my heart in exchange for hers_.

330. #le = su corazón.#

335-336. #la nueva de ser Isabel esposa#, _the news of Isabel's
marriage_.

340. #cuanto fabrico derrumba = derrumba cuanto (todo lo que) yo
fabrico.#

345. #han de traer = traerán.# Note that _Isabel_ is direct object of
_traer_.

346. #para tanto = para hacer tanto.#

356. #Sálvete su diligencia#, _let his efforts save you from danger_.

361. #perecéis = pereceréis.# Present instead of future for greater
vividness.

364-366. #estallo = hubiera estallado; calla = habría callado; llega =
habría llegado.#

392. #que venga.# Subject of _venga_ is _la rebelión,_ line 394.

395-396. Note that _quien_ is subject of both _lema_ and _dé_.

425. #el un capitán = uno de los capitanes.#

444. #Ya no hay perdón que le alcance#, _she is beyond the reach of
pardon_.

445-446. #después de correr ... vencido# = _after the struggle is
over, disposition will be made of the conquered_.


ACTO SEGUNDO

17. #don Jaime#, James the Conqueror, King of Aragon from 1213 to
1276, son and successor of Pedro II. He gained the title, _El
Conquistador_, by his conquest of the Balearic Islands (1228-1232) and
Valencia (1258) from the Moors.

21. #Sancho VII#, King of Navarre (1194-1234), known as _El Fuerte_.
He played an important part in the defeat of the Moors at Navas de
Tolosa in 1212.

21. #Fernando III#, King of Castile (1217-1252), known as _El Santo_.
He reconquered Cordova, Seville, Jaén, etc,. from the Moors.

87-88. #sobre como ... allanar#, _as to how it should be smoothed,
overcome_.

102. #¡Virgen del Pilar!# _Our Lady of the Sacred Pillar protect us!_
In the church of _Nuestra Señora del Pilar_, Saragossa, is the sacred
pillar on which the Holy Virgin is believed to have appeared to Saint
James during his missionary journey through Spain. This pillar, with its
wooden image of the Virgin and Child, is the magnet that has drawn
countless pilgrims to Saragossa.

131-132. #de estarse ... pestañear#, _from standing so long with
staring, unblinking, eyes_.

137-139. #le fué ... al infeliz = la punta le fué a parar al corazón del
infeliz.#

144. #pisaba = pisaría.#

162. #¿Si sabrá?# ... _I wonder if he knows_...

174. #querrá.# Future to denote probability.

186. #Pues ... partido#, _well, even in throwing the bar I can win
the game from him_. _Barra_, was a game in which the contestants strove
to outdo each other in throwing a heavy iron bar. It was therefore a
test of strength.

197. #Jamás ... cara#, _never from danger do I turn my face_.

204. #la mano que todo lo guía#, _the hand that directs the
universe_, the hand of God.

208-209. #benéfica, airada#. Note that adjectives are frequently used
instead of adverbs, especially in poetry.

212. #de amante inquietud#, _inspired by loving solicitude_, that of
his own family.

213. #no cobre#..., _may I never recover_...

215. #Mayor mi tesón a más padecer#, _my obstinacy increasing with my
suffering_. Compare _mi tesón crecía con mi padecer_, of the first
edition.

239-240. #decid ... vida#, _tell her to whom this father_ (Martin
himself) _owes the privilege of seeing himself alive_.

247-248. Compare with these the two corresponding lines of the first
edition:

        Con tal compañera, ¿quién no ha de temblar
        de perder la vida que lleva dichosa?

255-256. #dirige = hubiese dirigido; ahorran = habrían ahorrado; cuánto
de llanto = ¡cuántas lágrimas!#

259. #la de Maurel#, the battle of Muret in southern France, 1213, in
which the Albigenses and their allies, the Aragonese, were defeated by
the Crusaders under Simon de Montfort. King Pedro of Aragon lost his
life in the battle and many Aragonese were killed or taken prisoners.

275-276. #Diligencia escasa ... cupo = parece que diligencia escasa,
fortuna severa, cupo en suerte a# (_fell to the lot of_) #mi sangre
(familia).#

278. #se muestre#, _let him show himself_. Freely translated: _one
who has been unable to overcome adverse fortune should at least be
patient when it wounds him_.

279. #de aquesa manera#, _in that condition_, that is, without a
sword.

296. #le acatan propios y ajenos#, _all respect him, those of his
own family_ (#propios#) _and those of others_ (#ajenos#).

341. #logré ... mal#, _I succeeded in convincing my ears that they_
(#los acentos desabridos#) _did not have a disagreeable sound for
me_.

347. #al recordar mi memoria#, _when memory would bring to mind_.

371 et seq. Note that _vos, piedra, bóveda, suelo_ are all direct
objects of _invoco_, line 379. _Not you, but rather the inanimate stone
... that vaulted ceiling ... that pavement ... do I call upon as
witnesses_....

377. #a no ser ... huella#, _if it were not as hard and cold as the
one that walks upon it_.

381. #que# = _for_; #le = al afán.#

384. #oyera = pudiera, podría, oírla.#

413. #ofrecí dar#, _I would gladly have given_.

423-426. Compare corresponding lines in first edition:

          Cuanto padezco mirad
          pues ya como dicha cuento
          que mis penas un momento
          suspendan su intensidad.

447-450. #Vuestras razones ... crimen#, _your words of intercession
carry conviction to his heart; any hesitation or reluctance on my part
would be (considered) disrespect, sinful_.

455. #que ... mortaja = que él se limite a tenerme una cruz y una
mortaja#, _he need do no more than provide me a cross and a shroud_.

559. #de infeliz ... más#, _from an unhappy state I have passed to
one still more wretched_.

564-565. #por señas que ... judío.# Teresa's meaning is clear; he
must be either a Jew or a Moor, she thinks, since he refused to partake
of the slices of pork and wine that she had offered him. She might have
expressed herself more logically thus: _por señas que_ (as proof that)
_debe ser moro o judío, nada de ello (magras y vino) ha probado_.

572. #¡Que haya ... oí!# _If it were only a dream what I believe that
I heard!_

600. #Ya que padecí, padezca (ella).#

603-605. #al fin ... miserable#, _after all, compared with her,
Manilla was of little account_.

616-617. See _buena_ in Vocabulary.

664. #en que reina#, _where he now dwells_.

673-674. #sin que ... ofensa#, _without any one's being able to take
offense at my tears_.

734. #que lea#, _that he may read_.

735. #encontrármelas.# _Me_, dative of interest or concern, may be
translated: _for all I care_.

764. #se ofrezca ... morir#, _consent to worse than death_.


ACTO TERCERO

7. #Si esto ... difunto = esto es como si yo amortajase a un
difunto.#

34. #No tardarán ... San Pedro#, _the call to vespers will not be
long in sounding over there in Saint Peter's_. San Pedro is the name of
the old parochial church in Teruel connected with the legend of _Los
Amantes_.

73-74. #Yo no creía que dudarais de mi rendimiento fiel.#

84-86. #y al fin hallaréis otro que no podéis figuraros en vuestro rigor
esquivo.#

89. #aun no le visteis#, _him you have not yet seen_.

107-109. #una lengua venenosa no pudo jamás echarme maldición más
espantosa que decir#....

142-144. #Para romper ... indagaciones#, _in order to break my
bondage (free myself from love of you), in order to find defects in you,
my investigations were undertaken._

156. #lo que yo vivirá = lo que# (_as long as_) #yo viva, vivirá#.

167-168. #concluyo de desear y pedir#, _I desire and ask for no
more_.

180-181. #mudaréis en suma de casa y de vecindad#, _you will move
into another house and neighborhood, nothing more_.

210-211. #lo demás ... notorio#, _otherwise it would give cause for
notorious scandal_.

217. #resucitara = hubiera resucitado.#

219. #matara = habría matado.#

221. #corriera = habría corrido.#

346. #saliéndole al camino = saliéndole al encuentro.#

354. #más ... marido = yo, prófuga, he podido (hacer) más que mi real
marido.#

364. #monstruo ... abismo#, _inhuman creature, in whose voice is
heard the wrath of hell_.

386-387. #a quien ... frente#, _whose forehead evil fate branded at
birth with burning iron_.

388. #que por verte vive#, _who receives new life on seeing you_.

434. #merézcate ... lazo#, _respect as you should that marriage
bond_.

437. #Con mi presencia queda destruído.# "Sublime respuesta de la
pasión, tan sublime por lo menos como el famoso _Qu'il mourût_ de
Corneille, porque para la pasión no hay obstáculo, no hay mundo, no hay
hombres, no hay más Dios, en fin, que ella misma. Sacrilegio sublime
como el de Ayax en Homero." (José de Larra, _Colección de artículos_,
page 194.)


ACTO CUATRO

7. #prenden = habrían prendido.#

8. #acuden = hubiesen acudido.#

41. #sois quien sois#, _you are true to yourself_; or, _one can
always count upon you_.

48. #entre vos y yo#, _we two, you and I_.

119. #¿No ha de ser?# _Why not?_

122. #por si es#, _lest it be; in case it may be_.

139. #Esto es antes.# Teresa thought that the spirit of Marsilla was
conducting Rodrigo to the cemetery. Pedro, after giving the real
explanation, adds _Esto es antes_, meaning, _rather is this it_, i.e.,
the true explanation.

165-166. #mira si te engañas#, _you are surely mistaken_.

166. #mal pudiera = mal podría (engañarme).#

201-202. #Pasa más#, _more has happened; there is still more to
tell_. Note that _yo_ is the subject understood of _aperciba_ in line
202.

220. #al = al tálamo.#

222-224. #salga ... hospedaje#, _let her leave here at once, let not
the law of hospitality serve her (as protection)_.

230-231. #fuera rayar en loca#, _would be little removed from folly;
would border on madness_.

233-234. #sean ... pierdo = sean jueces de mi furia todas las mujeres
que pierdan lo que yo pierdo.#

250-251. #que ... veía#, _who had not seen him for such a long
time_....

263-264. #que ... son#, _that rightly belong to a true believer_. In
this case _creyente_ means Moslem, a follower of Mohammed. Isabel's
magnanimity arouses Adel's admiration.

Escena VI. Read #que entra# after #Marsilla#.

286. #dos#, his own sword and that of Rodrigo. The explanation will
be found in lines 401-413.

317. #si tú vivías#, _seeing that you were still alive_.

319-320. #la que ... separara? = ¿Cómo podría separarse de ti sin ti la
(vida) que me alienta?#

321. #desterró#, _banished, exiled (from Heaven)_; = #Juntos aquí nos
desterró (del cielo) la mano (de Dios) que distribuye sabia-(mente)
gozos y penas.#

327-328. #debiera prometerme = habría debido prometerme#, _you ought
to have offered me_...; or, _I should have expected_....

342-344. #no se casa ... humana#, _one that loved as I did does not
marry, unless compelled to do so by the strongest force within the power
of mankind_.

348. #sujetaras = habrías sujetado.#

352. #la suya = su mano.#

355. #me ves ajena#, _you see me the wife of another_.

367. #va mi vida en oírtelo#, _to hear you say it is a matter of life
or death to me_.

391. #en recuerdo si no#, _in memory at least_.

408. #si lo llego ... librara?# _Should I ever believe that, who
could protect him?_

440. #las entrañas = el corazón. Una por una# in the preceding line
might be translated _little by little_.

473-474. #en pos de ... lanza#, _my lovelorn spirit hastens away in
pursuit of thine_.

A comparison of the closing lines of the play with those of the first
version shows a decided gain in dramatic effectiveness.

ISABEL.      ¿Conque ya es muerto?

TODOS.     ¡Muerto!

ISABEL.              Yo le maté; quise alejarle ...
           que le odiaba le dije ... el sentimiento,
           el espanto ... ¡Y mentí!...
           Pero también de mí se apiada el cielo.
           Ya de la eternidad me abre la puerta
           y de mis ojos huye el mundo entero,
           y una tumba diviso solamente
           con un cadáver, y a su lado un hueco.
           Marsilla, yo te amé, siempre te amaba ...
           tú me lloraste ajena ... tuya muero.

Cotarelo y Mori, in his scholarly study of the origin and development of
the legend, uses as an argument against its historical authenticity the
improbable ending; skeptically, he asks the question: "¿No es
verdaderamente pasmoso que en el siglo XIII hubiese ni en Teruel ni en
parte alguna dos personas de sensibilidad tan exquisita a quienes
simultáneamente pudiera causar la muerte el verse privadas una de otra?"
This rhetorical question was answered many years before it was thus
formulated. José de Larra in his review of the play a few days after its
first performance and only a few days before his own tragic death,
speaking for those who believe that death may be caused by grief alone,
urged the author to pay no heed to critics who scoffed at the
_dénouement_ of his play: "Si óyese repetir a sus oídos un cargo vulgar
que a los nuestros ha llegado, y que ni mentar hemos querido en este
artículo; si óyese decir que el final de su obra es inverosímil, que el
amor no mata a nadie, puede responder que es un hecho consignado en la
historia; que los cadáveres se conservan en Teruel, y la posibilidad en
los corazones sensibles; que las penas y las pasiones han llenado más
cementerios que los médicos y los necios; que el amor mata (aunque no
mate a lodo el mundo) como matan la ambición y la envidia; que más de
una mala nueva al ser recibida ha matado a personas robustas,
instantáneamente y como un rayo; y aun será en nuestro entender mejor
que a ese cargo no responda, porque el que no lleve en su corazón la
respuesta, no comprenderá ninguna. Las teorías, las doctrinas, los
sistemas se explican; los sentimientos se sienten." (_Colección de
artículos_, page 197.)


VOCABULARY


The purpose of this vocabulary is to give English equivalents for the
words and locutions as used in this play, in order to help the student
understand the text or translate it into clear, idiomatic English. In
some cases, therefore, the English equivalent is not a literal
translation of the Spanish and may not give the usual meaning of the
word or phrase. Moreover, words that the student is reasonably certain
to know and those that have the same or almost the same form and meaning
in Spanish and English are omitted, as well as inflected forms, except
in the case of those that seem to offer special difficulty.


#A#

#abandonar# leave, abandon

#abatimiento# despondency, dejection

#abierto# _p.p. of_ #abrir# open

#abismo# abyss, gulf; hell

#abogar# plead, intercede for; defend

#aborrecer# hate, detest

#abrasador, -a# burning, ardent

#abrazar# embrace

#abrazo# embrace

#abrir, -se# open

#acá# here, hither, this way

#acabar# end, finish; come to an end; weaken; #-- con# put an end to;
#-- de# finish with, have finished, have just; #acabarás de hacer
justicia# you will do justice in the end

#acatar# respect, honor, do homage to

#acción# action, impulse

#acechar# spy upon

#acento# accent; #-s# words

#acercarse# approach

#acero# steel; blade, sword, dagger

#aciago# bitter; fatal

#aclamar# acclaim

#acometer# attack

#acompañar# accompany; #fué acompañándome# he went with me, kept me
company

#acordarse# (de) remember

#activo# vigorous

#acudir# come up, hasten (to help); #-se a# have recourse to, go to

#adelantarse a# go ahead of, outrun

#ademán# _m._ gesture; attitude

#adentro# within; off the stage

#aderezar# dress, get ready

#adiós# good-bye, farewell

#administrar# administer; give

#adonde# where, to the place where

#adorar (en)# adore

#adormecer# put to sleep

#adormecido# sleeping

#adorno# adornment

#afán# _m._ anxiety, trouble, sorrow; #con --# solicitously

#afecto# love, affection; #-- amoroso# feeling of love

#afición# love, fondness

#afligir# afflict, grieve

#agasajar# regale; entertain

#agolpados# crowding

#agradecer# be grateful, thankful (for)

#agradecido# grateful

#agua# water

#aguardar# wait for

#ahogar# smother, oppress; #-se# be stifled _or_ suffocated

#ahora# now; nowadays; #por --# for the present

#ahorrar# save, spare; #-se# be spared

#ahuyentar# frighten, drive away

#airado# angry, wrathful

#aire# _m._ air

#ajeno# belonging to another, of another, another's

#alameda# avenue, grove (_of poplars_)

#alarde# _m._ boast, boasting; #hacer --# be proud of, boast

#alarido# cry, shout

#alazán# _m._ sorrel horse

#alba# dawn

#Albarracín# _small town and mountainous district a short distance west
of the city of Teruel_

#albedrío# will, free will

#albergue# _m._ lodging, room

#albigenses# Albigenses (_see note, Act I_, 258); #un francés --# an
Albigensian Frenchman

#alborotado# excited, agitated

#alborozo# joy

#alcanzar# reach, overtake; obtain; #-- con# have influence with

#alcazaba# stronghold, fortress, donjon

#alcázar# _m._ castle, royal palace

#alcoba# bedroom

#alcurnia# ancestry; family name

#alentar# give breath; animate

#aleve# faithless, perfidious; traitor

#alguno# any, any one, the one

#alhaja# jewel

#aliento# breath, courage; #-- vital# breath of life; #sin --# lifeless,
unconscious; #mi --# my last breath

#alimentar# nourish; #-- risueña# encourage with smiling hopes

#alistar# enlist, recruit

#aliviar# assuage, relieve

#alivio# alleviation, consolation

#alma# soul, spirit, heart, love; #de mi --# dearest

#Alteza# Highness

#altivez# _f._ pride

#alto# high; great

#altura# height, elevation; #una --# high ground

#alumbrar# illuminate, light

#alzar# raise; rise, arise

#allá# there, yonder; #por --# thereabouts, along there

#allanarse# be smoothed out, be overcome; be worked out

#allí# there, in it

#ama# mistress

#amante# loving; lover

#amar# love; #-se# love each other

#amargo# bitter, cruel

#amargura# bitterness, sorrow

#amasar# knead; cement

#ambos# both; as

#amenazar# threaten

#amigo# friend

#Amir# ameer (_Mohammedan ruler_)

#amistad# friendship

#amor# _m._ love

#amorío# love-making; #-s# love affairs

#amortajar# shroud, prepare for burial

#anciandad# _f._ old age

#anciano# old; old man

#andar# go; #-- por aquí# go about in this vicinity; #-se# go about

#ángel# _m._ angel

#angustia# anguish

#anhelado# longed for, coveted

#anhelante# anxious; anxiously

#anhelar# long, yearn for

#ánima# spirit

#animar# encourage

#ánimo# mind, spirit

#anochecer# grow dark; #al --# at nightfall; #a poco de --# shortly
after nightfall

#ansia# anguish

#ansiar# long for, desire eagerly

#ante# before; in the presence of

#antes# before, first; rather; on the contrary; #-- de# before; #-- que#
before; rather than; #-- que todo# before everything else

#anticipar# anticipate; #anticipado al nacer# present before birth,
prenatal

#anular# annul

#anunciar# announce

#año# year

#apacible# peaceful, friendly

#aparecer# appear, be seen

#apartar# separate, take away

#aparte# aside; #-- de# aside from

#apellido# name

#apenas# scarcely, barely

#apercibir# inform

#aplacar# mitigate, lessen, appease, allay

#aplazado# postponed

#aplicar# apply; hold

#aposento# room

#apreciar# appreciate

#aprender# learn

#aprensión# illusion, delusion

#apresar# capture

#aprestar# prepare

#apresurar# hurry up

#aprieto# embarrassment, difficult position

#aproximarse# approach

#aquese, aquesa# that

#aquí# here; on earth

#ara# altar

#aragonés, -esa# Aragonese

#árbol# _m._ tree

#ardiente# hot, burning

#ardimiento# boldness

#arena# sand; #-s# sands, desert

#arma# arm, weapon

#armiño# ermine; #de --# ermine-like

#arrastrar# drag, force into; #traerla arrastrando# drag her here

#arrebatar# take away by force

#arrebato# carried away with, beside himself with

#arremeter con# make an attack upon

#arrepentimiento# repentance, remorse

#arribar# arrive

#arriesgar# risk

#arrimarse# lean against

#arrodillado# kneeling

#arrodillarse# kneel

#arrojar# cast off; #-se# rush, escape, cast oneself upon

#arrostrar# face

#arruinarse# fall in ruins

#artesano# artisan, mechanic

#ascendiente# ancestor, forefather

#asegurar# assure, assert, state definitely

#asesinar# assassinate, murder

#asesinato# assassination

#así# so, thus; #-- que# as soon as

#asido de# grasped, seized by

#asir# grasp, seize

#asistir a# be present at, witness, attend

#asomar# appear

#asombrado# astonished, amazed

#áspero# rough

#asustar# frighten; #-se de# be frightened at

#atar# tie

#ataúd# _m._ coffin

#atavío# fine attire

#atender# heed, pay attention to, listen attentively to

#atento# attentive; attentively

#aterrar# ravage, lay waste; appall, terrify

#atesorar# store up; possess

#atestiguar# testify

#atónito# amazed, troubled

#atrás# back, backward

#atravesar# pass through

#atreverse# dare

#atroz# atrocious, fierce

#aumentar# increase

#aumento# increase

#aun, aún# still, even, yet; #-- no# not yet

#aunque# although, even though

#ausencia# absence

#ausentarse# depart, go away, be absent; #al --# in the absence of

#ausente# absent; absent one

#autor# author, agent

#avaro# miser

#averiguar# find out

#avisar# warn, notify, inform

#aviso# warning; news

#¡ay!# alas; #-- de# alas for, woe betide

#ayer# yesterday; recently

#ayunar# fast

#ayuntamiento# town council; town hall, city hall

#azorado# anxious, restless


#B#

#bajar# descend

#bajo# under

#balbuciente# stammering

#balcón# _m._ balcony

#banda# band, scarf

#bandera# banner, standard

#bandolero# bandit, robber

#bañar# bathe

#barra# metal bar; #tirar la --# throw the bar (_a popular game in
Spain_)

#bastante# enough; long enough

#bastar# suffice, be enough; #basta# enough; #basta de plática# enough
talk

#batida# hunting party

#beldad# beauty

#Belén# Bethlehem

#bello# beautiful

#bendecir# bless

#bendición# blessing

#bendito# blessed

#beneficio# benefit; #con tal --# under such obligation

#benéfico# beneficent, charitable

#benigno# beneficent, benign

#besar# kiss

#Besiés# Béziers _(city of about fifty thousand inhabitants in the south
of France_)

#bien# well, very, indeed, already; #-- está# very well, all right;
#tener a --# consider proper _or_ advisable; please

#bien# _m_. good, goodness, happiness, blessing, favor; object of love;
#mi --# my love, beloved; #¿qué --?# what good, what of any value? #-s#
wealth

#bienhechor, -a# benefactor, benefactress

#blando# soft, tender

#blasfemo# blasphemous

#boca# mouth; tongue

#boda# marriage, wedding; #-s# wedding; #celebradas las# --#s# the
wedding being over, after the marriage

#borrar# erase, efface

#bosque# _m_. wood, forest

#bóveda# arch, vault; vaulted ceiling

#brasa# live coal

#brazo# arm

#breve# brief; #en --# in a little time, quickly

#brillante# bright, shining

#brindar con# offer

#brioso# bold, spirited

#bueno# good; #buena la habéis hecho# you have done it now

#bufete# _m_. sideboard; table

#burlar# mock; disappoint, frustrate; #dejar burlada# make ineffective,
frustrate

#busca# search; #en su --# in search of him

#buscar# seek, look for, find; go to find, get; fetch


#C#

#cabal# complete

#cabalgar# take horse, ride away

#caballo# horse; #a --# on horseback

#caballero# gentleman; knight

#cabello# hair

#caber# be contained in; find a place _or_ entrance; be room for; #no
cabe# it is impossible _or_ unthinkable; #-- en suerte a# be decreed by
fate, be predestined

#cabeza# head; chief; captain

#cabo# end; #llevar a --# carry out; #al --# at last

#cada# each

#cadáver# _m_. body, corpse

#cadena# chain

#caer# fall; #-- prisionero de# fall into the hands of

#caído# fallen; lying; ruined

#calabozo# prison, dungeon

#calidad# quality, nobility; #más --# higher rank

#callar# be silent, keep quiet, refuse to tell, conceal; leave
unspoken; keep from saying, not to say; pass over in silence; preserve

#calle# _f._ street

#callejón# _m_. narrow street, alley

#cama# bed

#cambiar# change, exchange

#caminar# travel, journey

#camino# road; #-- de# in the direction of, on the way to; #salir al --#
go out to meet

#campana# bell

#candido# pure, white

#cansarse# become tired, grow weary

#capaz# capable

#capilla# chapel

#capitán# captain

#cara# face

#carácter# _m_. character

#cárcel,# _f._ prison, dungeon

#cargo# charge; accusation

#caricia# caress

#caridad# charity

#cariño# love, affection

#cariñoso# loving

#caro# dear; dearly

#carrera# road, journey; career; #mortal --# journey of life

#carta# letter

#casa# house; #a --# home

#casado, -a# married man _or_ woman

#casamiento# marriage

#casar# marry, give in marriage; #-se# marry, get married

#casi# almost

#caso case; situation; event; #hacer -- de# give heed to, listen to; #--
providencial# act of providence.

#castigar# punish

#castigo# punishment

#catalán# Catalan, of Catalonia

#caudal# _m_. capital, fortune

#cautiverio# captivity

#cautividad# captivity

#cautivo# captive

#cauto# cautious, wary, cunning, clever

#cazador# pursuer, hunter

#cebarse# feed, prey upon

#ceder yield#

#celebrar# celebrate; #celebradas las bodas# the wedding being over

#celestial# divine

#celo# zeal, devotion; #-s# jealousy

#celosía# Venetian blind; latticework

#celoso# jealous

#cerca# near

#cercano# near

#cercar# surround, besiege

#cerdo# pork

#cerrar# close, lock

#certero# sure

#cesar# cease; #sin --# incessantly

#cesta# basket

#ciego# blind; blind with love, carried away by passion

#cielo# heaven; #vive el --# by heavens

#cieno# mire, slime

#cierto# certain, a certain; indeed

#cilicio# cilice (_garment made of coarse cloth or hair, worn as
penance_)

#cinco# five

#ciudad# city

#clamar# cry, exclaim

#claustro# cloister, convent

#clemencia# mercy

#cobrar# recover

#colera# anger, rage

#colmar# bestow liberally upon, overwhelm

#colocar# place, set

#comarca# district, territory

#combate# _m._ fight, battle

#combatir# fight

#comisionado# agent

#como# as; if; since; provided that

#compadecer# pity, sympathize with

#compañero# companion

#compasión# pity, mercy; #por --# in the name of mercy

#competidor, -a# rival

#complacer# please do a favor to

#comprar# buy

#comprender# understand

#compromiso# compromise; predicament

#con# with; with respect to; #-- que# and so, so then

#conceder# yield

#concertarse# be arranged

#concluir# finish, conclude; #se concluyó# it is all done

#conde# count

#condenar# condemn

#conducir# take, bring

#condición# character, disposition

#conferenciar# take counsel

#confesar# confess, admit

#confiar# have confidence

#confín# _m._ boundary, limit; #ya en el --# in the very outskirts

#confundir# confound, punish

#confuso# confused

#conjuración# conspiracy

#conjurado# conspirator

#conmigo# with me, along with me

#conocer# know, meet, recognize

#conocimiento# knowledge; #sin --# unconscious

#consagrar# consecrate, dedicate

#conseguir# succeed in, obtain

#consejo# advice, counsel

#conservar# preserve

#consignado# deposited, set down

#consolador -a# comforter

#consolar# console

#consorte# consort; husband, wife

#constancia# constancy

#consuelo# consolation

#consumar# complete, consummate

#consumir# consume, wear out, wear upon

#contacto# contact, touch; #al --# at the first touch

#contar# relate, report, tell about; consider; #-- con# count upon,
expect; #cuento como# I count it as a

#contemplar# consider

#contener# contain, repress; #-se# contain oneself; stop

#contienda# quarrel

#continuamente# continually

#contra# counter, contrary to, against; #ir --# oppose

#contrario# enemy, opponent

#contrito# contrite, penitent

#convenir# be fitting, be in place

#convertir# convert, change; #-se# change, be converted

#convidado# guest

#convulso# convulsed

#corazón# _m._ heart

#cordel# _m._ cord

#corona# crown

#corporal# physical

#correctivo# corrective; expiation

#correr# run, hasten; pass; draw; run through; #corrido el plazo# the
time having expired, at the expiration of the time set

#corresponder con# repay

#corriendo# running; quickly

#corroborar# corroborate, confirm

#corrompido# foul, putrid

#corte# _f._ court

#cortina# curtain

#cortinaje# _m._ curtain; set of curtains

#corto# short, brief

#cosa# thing; #¿qué --?# what is it?

#cosecha# harvest

#costar# cost; #costara lo que costara# cost what it might; #cueste lo
que cueste# cost what it may

#cota# coat of mail; #vestida la --# with his coat of mail on

#coyunda# yoke

#creador, -a# creative

#crédito# credit; reputation

#creer# believe, think

#creyente# true believer (_Moslem or Christian, according to point of
view_)

#criado# servant

#criar# create; grow

#crimen# _m._ crime, offence

#cruz# _f._ cross

#cruzar# cross; pass through; fold

#cuadrilla# band

#cual# which; as

#cuadrar# suit; please; #de quien le cuadre# with any one that pleases
her

#cualquiera# any one; some or other

#cuando# when; since; seeing that

#cuantioso# numerous, large

#cuanto# how much, how many; as much as; all that; #-- a# as for; #-s#
all those that

#cuatro# four

#cubierto# covered

#cubrir# cover

#cuchilla# knife, poniard, sword

#cuello# neck

#cuerpo# body; #con el --# in the body, in this life

#cuidado# care, worry, anxiety, solicitude; #dar --# fill with regret

#cuidar# care for, look after

#culpa# blame, guilt, sin; #tener la --# be to blame

#culpado# guilty

#cumplido# full, complete

#cumplimiento# fulfilment, performance

#cumplir# fulfil; carry out; keep one's promise; expire; #-se# fall due,
expire, terminate; be fulfilled; fulfil one's duty toward, be faithful
to

#cuna# cradle; place of birth; #dar --# be birthplace

#cupo# _pret. 3d per. of_ #caber#

#curar# heal, look after, take care of

#custodio# guard, custodian

#cuyo# whose, of which, _etc_.


#D#

#daga# dagger, poniard

#dama# lady, lady of honor (at court)

#damasquino# Damascene; of Damascus (_ancient city of Syria, famous for
the excellence of its steel_); #el acero --# the Damascus blade

#daño# injury

#dar# give; make; #-- en# fall into; strike against; #-- que decir# give
occasion for censure _or_ gossip; #¿qué puede -- de sí?# what can you
expect of him? #se le den# let them give her to him

#de# of, by, _etc_.

#deber# owe, must, ought, be obliged, have to; #debió correr# he must
have run; #debieron echarle dentro# they must have thrown him into it;
#le debió querer# could not help loving him

#deber# _m._ duty, obligation

#debido# just, rightful, due

#débil# weak

#debilidad# weakness; #ser la suma --# be quite powerless, be
excessively weak

#decir# tell; #digo bien# I speak the truth; #diré que no# I shall
refuse; #según se me dice# according to what they tell me

#decisivo# decisive; #en trance tan --# in such a critical situation

#decreto# decree

#defender# defend, protect

#defensa# defence, protection

#deforme# hideous

#dejar# leave, leave alone; #-- abandonado# give up; #-- burlada# make
fun of, render ineffective; #-- caer# drop; #que vino a --le# that left
him at last; #-se matar# let oneself be killed

#delante# before, ahead; #-- de# in front of

#delicadeza# delicacy, fineness

#delicado# slight, weak; fine, perfect

#delincuente# guilty

#delirante# delirious, beside oneself

#delirar# be delirious

#delirio# frenzy; #-s# foolish caprices

#delito# crime, guilt, sin; #al saberse mi --# when my sin became known

#demás# other, remaining; #lo --# the rest; #los --# the others, the
rest; #lo -- fuera dar# otherwise it would give cause for; #-- (_for_
demasiado)# more than enough

#denigrar# blacken

#dentro# within; off the stage; #echar --# throw into it

#depender de# depend on

#depositorio# depositary; trustee

#derecho# right; #a la derecha# at the right

#derramar# shed

#derrumbar# overthrow, throw to the ground, destroy

#desabrido# insipid, distasteful

#desacato# disrespect

#desafiar# challenge; #desafiados quedamos# we had challenged each
other; we were to fight a duel

#desahogo# alleviation, relief

#desairado# disregarded, unrewarded; #dejar --# disregard; refuse _or_
fail to reward

#desairar# disregard; refuse

#desaparecer# disappear, pass away

#desastrado# ill-starred, unfortunate

#desatar# untie, undo; dissolve; #-se# free oneself

#descansar# rest

#desde# from; #-- hoy# from now on, from to-day; this very day; #-- que#
since; from the moment that

#desdén# _m._ disdain, scorn

#desdeñar# disdain

#desdeñoso# disdainful

#desdichado# unhappy

#desechar# cast away, put aside

#desempeñar# redeem; carry out

#desgarrar# rend, break

#desgracia# unhappiness, misfortune; evil fate, adversity; #por --#
unfortunately

#desgraciadamente# unfortunately

#desgraciado# unfortunate, unhappy, unsuccessful

#deshonrarse# be dishonored

#desleal# disloyal; traitor

#deslumbrar# dazzle

#desmayarse# faint, swoon

#desmentir# give the lie to, belie, contradict; deviate from

#desnudo# bare, naked; drawn

#desolado# desolate; disconsolately

#despacio# slowly, deliberately; #mira --# take a good look at

#despecho# anger, ill-will; despair

#despertar# awaken

#despojar# rob

#desposorio# marriage;#-s# marriage

#despreciar# scorn

#después# afterwards; #-- de# after

#desterrar# exile, banish; send (_from heaven to earth_)

#destierro# exile; absence

#destino# destiny

#destreza# dexterity

#destrozar# destroy, mangle

#destruir# destroy

#desvarío# raving, delirium

#desventura# unhappiness, misfortune

#desvergüenza# shamelessness

#detener# detain, delay, hold back, check; preserve; #-se# stop, delay,
desist

#deudo# relative

#deudor# indebted; #-- de verse con vida# indebted for the privilege of
seeing himself alive

#devaneo# caprice, fancy; #-s# idle pursuits

#devolver# return

#di# (_2d sing, imper. of_ #decir#) say, tell me

#dí# (_1st pers. pret. of_ #dar#)

#día# _m._ day; #un --# some day; #hoy --# in these days

#dicha# happiness, blessing, felicity; #por --# happily; #por -- mayor#
most fortunately; #-s# happiness

#dicho# aforesaid

#dichoso# happy, fortunate

#diestra# right hand

#diestro# skilful

#dificultad# difficulty, difficult task

#difunto# dead

#dignarse# deign, condescend

#digno# worthy

#dilación# delay

#diligencia# diligence, assiduity, solicitous care, endeavor

#Dios# God; #a --# good-bye, farewell, God keep you; #por --# in the
name of God, in Heaven's name

#dirigir# direct, address; intend for; guide; #-se# apply to, turn, go
toward, make one's way

#discreción# discretion; #a --# at will; without conditions

#disculparse con# apologize

#disfraz# _m._ disguise.

#disfrazado# disguised

#disminuir# diminish

#disponer# dispose of, arrange for, provide, make arrangements

#distinto# distinct, evident; different

#distribuir# distribute

#disuadir# dissuade, deter

#doblez# _m._ duplicity, wile

#dócil# docile, yielding

#dolencia# disease, infirmity, illness

#doliente# suffering, aching; sad; #-- desvarío# delirium of grief

#dolo# fraud, deceit

#dolor# _m._ sorrow, regret, grief, pain

#dolorido# doleful

#doloroso# grievous, sad

#domingo# Sunday

#don# _m._ gift

#doncella# maiden, young girl

#donde# where; in _or_ on which; #por --# through which; #-- quiera#
wherever he pleases

#dormitorio# bedroom

#dos# two

#duda# doubt; #sin --# doubtless, surely

#dudar# doubt, suspect

#duelo# duel; pain

#dueño# master, owner, possessor; mistress

#dulce# sweet

#dulcemente# sweetly; #embargar --# hold in sweet suspense

#dulcísimo# very sweet; most loving, most blessed

#dulzura# sweetness

#durar# last

#duro# hard, harsh, cruel


#E#

#ea# well

#echar# throw, throw at, cast, fling; utter; put lower; #-- menos# miss

#eficaz# efficient, practical

#egoísmo# selfishness

#ejemplo# model, example

#elegir# select, choose

#elevación# nobility

#ello# it; as for that; #-- si# the fact is

#embargar# suspend; #-- dulcemente# hold in sweet suspense

#embargo# restraint; #sin --# however, nevertheless

#empañar# dim

#emparedar# confine, shut up

#empeñar# pledge; #-se# pledge oneself, intercede

#empeño# pledge, engagement; undertaking; effort; earnest desire;
resolution, firmness; insistence

#empezar# begin

#emplear# employ; #-se# devote oneself

#emponzoñar# poison

#empuje# _m._ push; pressure

#empuñar# grasp

#émulo# rival, emulator

#enamorado# enamored; #tan --# as much in love

#enardecer# kindle, inflame

#encaminar# guide

#encargar# charge; #-se de# take charge of

#encargo# charge, duty; commission; #en mi --# assigned to me

#encarnación# incarnation

#encarnizarse en# be fleshed in, wound

#encerrar# enclose, confine

#encierro# enclosure, prison

#enconar# irritate, aggravate, increase

#encono# rancor, malevolence

#encontrar# find, meet

#enemigo# enemy; hostile, unfriendly

#enemistad# enmity; #palabras de --# angry words

#enero# January

#enfermedad# illness, sickness

#enfermo# sick; sick man, patient; #los -s# the sick

#engañar# deceive; #-se# be deceived, be mistaken

#engaño# deception, mistake; #-s# illusion

#engendrar# engender, generate, produce

#enjugar# dry

#enlace# _m._ union, marriage

#enmudecer# remain silent

#enojado# angry, in anger

#enredarse# turn, coil about

#enriquecerse# become rich

#ensangrentado# bloody, bloodstained

#ensangrentar# stain with blood

#ensayo# trial, effort, attempt

#enseñado# taught, trained

#entender# understand; #a mi --# in my opinion

#enterarse de# find out, know

#entereza# fortitude

#entero# entire, complete

#entonces# then, at that time

#entrambos# both

#entrañas# entrails, vital organs; heart

#entrar# enter

#entre# between, in the midst of; #-- vos y yo# we two, you and I

#entrega# delivery, surrender

#entregar# give, deliver, hand over

#envenenado# poisoned

#enviar# send

#envuelto# enveloped

#ermita# hermitage

#escándalo# scandal

#escaparse# escape

#escarmentar# punish severely

#escarnecer# mock

#escaso# scarce; vain, fruitless

#esclavo# slave

#escolta# escort, guard

#escondido# hidden; hiding

#escribir# write

#escrito# writing

#escrupulosidad# conscientiousness

#escuchar# listen to, heed, answer

#esfuerzo# effort, efforts

#eso# that; #por --# therefore, for that reason

#esotro, -a# that other; #a esotra puerta# try the other door
(_meaning_, she hears nothing)

#espada# sword

#espanto# terror

#espantoso# terrible

#espectador# spectator

#espectro# specter, ghost

#espejo# mirror; model; #-- de mano# handmirror

#esperanza# hope

#esperar# hope, expect, wait for, await

#espina# thorn

#espíritu# _m._ spirit, soul, mind; liquor, liquid; #de --# mental

#esposa wife; #-- del Señor# bride of Christ, nun

#esposo# husband; #-s# husband and wife

#esquivo# reserved, cold

#estallar# burst, break forth

#estar# be; #-se# remain; #-- de Dios# be in God's power

#estilo# style; #por el --# like this, of this sort

#esto# this; #en --# thereupon

#estorbar# hinder, get in one's way

#estrado# drawing-room

#estrechar# press, embrace

#estrecho# narrow, small

#estremecerse# shudder

#estrenar# present for the first time

#estudio# study

#eterno# eternal; #el --# God

#evitar# avoid

#excusar# excuse; avoid; #excusadme el presenciar# excuse my not
witnessing

#exhalar# breathe forth, give expression to

#existir# exist, live; be born

#explicación# explanation

#explicar# explain

#expresar# give expression to

#extranjero# foreign; foreigner

#extraño# strange


#F#

#fabricar# build up, contrive, devise

#facción# feature

#fácil# easy

#fácilmente# easily

#facineroso# wicked, criminal

#falaz# false, deceptive

#falda# lap; #la materna --# in our mothers' arms

#falsía# falsity, deceit

#falso# spurious, unreal

#falta# lack; ¿#qué -- hace a#? what need has ... of?

#faltar# lack, fail, be lacking; #los días que me faltan que vivir# the
days that are left to me of life

#fallecer# fail; die

#fama# good name

#fantasma# phantom, spirit

#fatigar# weary

#favor# _m._ favor, help

#favorecer# have mercy upon

#faz# _f._ face

#fe# _f._ faith, religion; loyalty; promise; #a --# by my faith

#feliz# fortunate

#fenecer# end, expire

#fenecido# ended, at an end

#feo# ugly

#féretro# coffin, bier

#feroz# cruel, ferocious

#férvido# fervid, ardent

#ferviente# fervent

#festín# _m._ banquet, entertainment

#fiel# faithful, sincere, true

#fiera# wild animal, savage beast

#fiero# cruel

#figurarse# imagine, believe

#fijo# fixed; staring

#fin _m._ end; death; #al --# at last, after all; #en --# at last, in
short; #por --# at last, in the end; #tener su --# terminate, expire

#final# _m._ end

#fingir# feign, pretend, dissemble

#fino# fine, perfect; perfectly, faithfully

#firma# signature

#firme# strong

#firmeza# constancy, stability

#flor# _f._ flower

#florido# flowery

#fogoso# spirited

#fondo# bottom; background, back of stage

#forastero# stranger

#forcejar# struggle

#formar# form, make up

#fortaleza# fortitude, firmness

#fortuna# fortune; #por -- mía# fortunately for me; #por más--# still
more fortunately

#forzoso# forced, obligatory; #ser --# be necessary

#francés, -esa# French

#franco# frank, outspoken; frankly

#franqueza# frankness

#frenesí# _m._ frenzy, fury

#frenético# frantic

#frente# _f._ forehead, face

#frío# cold

#fuego# fire; death at the stake; #a sangre y a --# with fire and sword

#fuera# outside; away with; #-- de# away from

#fuera# _imp. subj. of_ #ser# _or_ #ir#

#fuero# right, law

#fuerte# strong, vigorous, brave

#fuerza# force, power, strength; #a -- de# by dint of; #-- es# it is
necessary, it must perforce

#fuga# flight

#fugaz# fleeting

#fulano# such a one; #un tal --# Mr. So-and-so

#fúlgido# bright, resplendent

#fundado# well founded

#fundar# found, base

#funesto# fatal, sad; #el fin os llega --# a disastrous end awaits you

#furia# fury, rage

#furioso# furious, raging

#furor# _m._ fury, rage, passion


#G#

#gabinete# _m._ private room; boudoir

#gala# wedding dress; #-s# fine clothes, gala attire; #-- del himeneo#
bridal trousseau

#galán# _m._ lover

#galano# gallant; splendidly dressed

#gallardo# brave, gallant, daring

#ganar# gain, win

#garganta# neck

#gargantilla# necklace

#gavilla# gang, band

#gemir# groan

#genio# genius; spirit; #-- infernal# evil spirit

#gente# _f._ people, company, retinue; family; #-- aragonesa# people
from Aragón; #llamad --# call some one

#golpe# _m._ blow

#gótico# Gothic

#gozar# enjoy, take pleasure in

#gozo# joy; #con --# joyfully, gladly

#grabar# engrave

#grande# great, large; effective

#grato# pleasing; welcome

#gravemente# seriously

#gravísimo# most grievous, serious

#grito# cry

#Guadalaviar# _or_ #Turia# _river rising in the Province of Teruel and
flowing into the Mediterranean at Valencia_

#guarda# _m., f._ guard

#guardar# keep, preserve, guard, maintain

#guardia# guard

#guarnición# guard, hilt

#guerrero# warrior, soldier

#guiar# guide, direct, control

#gustar# please

#gusto# pleasure

#gustoso# joyful, glad; joyously


#H#

#haber# have; #-- de# have to, be going to, be to, must, _etc._; #me has
de acompañar# you are to accompany me; #no han de veros# you must not be
seen; ¿#quién ha de ser#? who else should it be? ¿#qué hay#? what is
wrong? #poco ha# a short time ago; #quince años ha# fifteen years ago

#habitación# room

#habitar# live, dwell

#hablar# speak

#hacer# make, do; be (_in expressions of time_); #-- caso de# give heed
to, listen to; #-- vano# frustrate, render harmless; #-- por# try, make
an effort to; #hazle entrar# show him in; #haz que vea# let me see;
#hace poco# a short time ago; #hacía tanto# for so long; #hará tres
meses# about three months ago; #-se# take place

#hacia# toward; #-- aquí# in this direction

#hacienda# property, wealth, riches

#hallar# find; #bien hallado# I am glad to see you; #-se# find oneself;
be; #-se con# have, possess

#hambre# _f._ hunger

#hartar# satiate; #para -me# until I am satiated

#hasta# until; even; #-- que# until

#hecha# _p.p. fem. of_ #hacer#; #poner -- una imagen# make pretty as a
picture

#hechizo# charm, fascination

#hecho# fact

#hecho# _p.p. of_ #hacer#; accustomed, used; turned into; becoming

#hediondo# fetid, foul

#heredar# inherit

#herencia# inheritance; wealth

#herida# wound

#herido# wounded; wounded man

#herir# wound, strike

#hermano, -a# brother, sister

#hermoso# beautiful; #hermosa# beautiful woman

#hiciera# _imp. subj. of_ #hacer#

#hiel# _f._ gall, bitterness

#hierro# iron; steel; brandiron; #-s# chains

#hijo, -a# son, daughter

#himeneo# marriage; #galas del --# bridal trousseau

#historia# story

#hito# fixed; #de -- en# fixedly

#hoguera# fire; #una --# death at the stake

#holgar# please; #me holgara# (_for_ #holgaría#) it would please me

#hollar# tread upon

#hombre# man

#hondo# deep

#honesto# virtuous

#honrado# honorable, respectable

#honrar# honor

#hora# hour; time; #en buen --, en -- buena# indeed; well and good; and
welcome

#horrendo# frightful, horrible

#horroroso# horrible, terrible

#hospedaje# _m._ lodging; hospitality

#hoy# to-day; now; #desde --# this very day, from now on; #--mismo# this
very day, even to-day; #-- día# in these days

#hoyo# hole, pit

#hubo# (_3d pret. of_ #haber#) there was

#hueco# hollow; depths

#huella# footprint

#huesa# grave

#huir# flee, fly, slip away

#humanidad# humaneness, kindness

#húmedo# damp, humid

#humildad# humility

#hundir# hurl, throw, beat down; #-se# sink


#I#

#idioma# _m._ language

#idiotez# idiocy

#idolatrar# idolize

#iglesia# church

#ignorar# ignore; not to know; #-se# be unknown

#igual# equal; alike

#igualdad# equality

#ileso# sound; without blemish

#ilusorio# illusory, deceptive

#ilustre# noble, illustrious

#imagen# _f._ image, picture

#imbécil# imbecile; simple

#impedir# prevent, stop

#ímpetu# _m._ impetus; impetuosity

#impío# faithless; wicked

#imponer# impose

#importar# be important; #no importa# no matter

#imprimir# impress, stamp

#incapaz# incompetent, unfit

#incentivo# encouragement

#inclinación# inclination, love

#inclinar# bend, bow

#incluir# include

#incorporarse# sit up in bed

#indagación# investigation

#indicar# mean, indicate

#índole# _f._ temper; nature

#indudable# indubitable, certain

#indulgencia# indulgence, toleration

#inerte# inanimate, lifeless

#infalible# infallible, sure

#infame# infamous

#infantil# childish; #amor --# love of childhood

#infausto# unlucky, ill-fated, ill-starred

#infecto# infected, tainted

#infelicidad# misfortune

#infeliz# unfortunate; unfortunate man; #alguna --# an unhappy woman

#infiel# disloyal, faithless; infidel

#infierno# hell

#informarse# inquire, ask

#ingrato# ungrateful

#inmaculado# immaculate

#inmediato# adjoining, next

#inmolar# sacrifice

#inmóvil# motionless

#inmovilidad# immobility

#inquietud# solicitude, anxiety, worry; #estar con --# worry, be anxious

#insensato# foolish; fool

#inspirar# inspire, inspire in

#instante# _m._ instant, moment; #en el --# at once, immediately

#instar# urge

#insufrible# intolerable

#intensidad# intensity

#intentar# try; intend to do

#inundar# inundate, flood

#inútil# vain, useless

#inverosímil# improbable

#invocar# invoke, call

#ir# go, be, _etc_.; #-- a# be about to; #-- a parar# lead to, come to
an end; pierce; #van llegando# they keep arriving _or_ continue to
arrive; #se fué retirando atrás# kept drawing back; #va mi vida# my life
is at stake; #-se# go away, disappear

#ira# fury, rage, passion; #-s# anger

#iracundo# passionate

#irritado# angry

#irritarse# get angry, become furious

#izquierdo# left; #a la izquierda# at the left


#J#

#jamás# ever, never

#jardín# _m._ garden

#jerga# coarse cloth

#Jesús# Heavens; Heaven help me

#Jope, Japa# Joppa (_ancient seaport of Jerusalem and important
commercial center in the time of the Crusades. Modern Jaffa_)

#jornada# journey

#joven# young; young man

#joya# jewel, piece of jewelry

#júbilo# joy

#judío# Jew

#juez# judge

#jugar# play

#juicio# judgment

#junta# council, meeting

#juntar# assemble, amass, get together; summon

#junto (a)# near, at the side of; #-s# together

#jurar# swear, vow

#justicia# justice; #en --# rightly

#juventud# youth

#juzgarse# consider oneself


#L#

#labio# lip; tongue

#labor# _f._ needlework, embroidery

#lado# side; #por este --# this way

#lágrima# tear

#lana# wool; garment of wool

#lance# _m._ incident, happening; conflict, struggle; critical moment

#lanzar# hurl, throw; give off, reflect; utter violently

#largo# long

#lástima# pity

#lastimarse# be sorry, grieve, regret

#lateral# at the side (_of the stage_)

#latir# beat, palpitate

#lazo# bond

#leal# loyal; loyally

#lecho# bed

#leer# read

#lejano# distant

#lejos de# far from

#lengua# tongue

#lenguaje# _m._ language, speech, manner of speech

#lentamente# slowly

#lento# slow

#lerdo# slow, heavy; #lerdas# dawdlers

#letra# letter; writing, handwriting

#levantar# raise; #-se# arise

#ley# _f._ law, religion, loyalty; #sin --# faithless, treacherous

#liberal# generous

#libertad# liberty

#libertar# free, rescue, set free

#líbico# Libyan; #líbica región# Northern Africa (_Libya was the ancient
name of Northern Africa_)

#librar# free, save, protect.

#libre# free; at will; released; libertine, licentious

#licencia# permission

#lícito# permissible

#lid# _f._ fight, struggle, conflict, duel

#lidiar# fight

#lienzo# linen cloth, piece of linen

#ligar# bind

#limitar# limit; #-se a# do no more than; #-- términos a# form
boundaries of, bound

#limpiar# wipe, cleanse

#lindo# pretty

#lisonjero# flattening, complimentary

#liviano# light; fickle, faithless

#lo que# what; how much; as long as

#lobreguez# darkness

#loco# mad, insane; foolish

#lograr# gain, succeed, be able to; #-- de# convince, persuade; #-- que
diga mi lengua# get my tongue to say; #-- vencer# have gained the
victory; #no he logrado que deis# I have not succeeded in getting you to
give

#lucero# morning star; #-s# eyes (_poetical_)

#lucha# struggle

#luchar# struggle

#luego# then, soon, next

#lugar# _m._ place; village; stead; #dar -- a# result in

#lujoso# luxurious

#luna# moon; moonlight; #la -- media# crescent (_device on the
Mohammedan standard_)

#lustro# lustrum (_period of five years_)

#luz# _f._ light


#LL#

#llamar# call, summon

#llanto# weeping; tears

#llegada# arrival

#llegar# arrive, reach, come, enter, _etc._; #-se# approach; #-- a
brindar# go so far as to offer, even offer; #-- a enterarse# come to
know, find out at last; #-- a saber# find out, discover; #si lo llego a
pensar# should I ever think that; #si llegaseis a conocer# if you could
only know; #os llega funesto# a disastrous end awaits you; #en llegando#
on his arrival

#lleno# full, filled

#llevar# take, carry, bear; lead: wear; live; get away; #-- de# live,
spend in; #-se# carry away, lead along; #-- me a casar# take me to the
marriage altar; #-- a cabo# carry out; #el alma se llevan# they take my
spirit with them

#llorar# weep, weep for, lament; #llorando# in tears

#lloro# weeping, tears


#M#

#madre# mother; Virgin Mary

#magra# rasher, slice of ham, pork

#mal# _m._ evil; misfortune

#mal# _adv._ bad, badly; hardly, scarcely

#maldecido# accursed

#maldecir# execrate, imprecate, curse

#maldición# curse, malediction

#maldito# accursed

#malogrado# unfortunate

#maltratar# maltreat, abuse

#malvado# wicked

#manar# flow

#mancebo# youth, young man

#mancha# stain, blot, blemish

#manchar# stain

#mandar# order, command; cause; #-- sepultar# have buried

#manera# manner; #de aquesa --# like that, in that condition; #de --
que# such that

#manifestar# prove

#mano#, _f._ hand

#mansión# abode, place of habitation

#mantener# keep, maintain, retain

#mañana# morning, to-morrow

#maquinalmente# mechanically

#maquinar# plan, contrive

#mar# _m._ sea #maravillado# amazed, filled with wonder

#maravillar# surprise

#marcar# impress, brand

#marcial# military

#marchar# go away, depart, leave, #-se# go away, go off

#margen# _m., f._ margin, bank

#marido# husband

#martirio# torture, martyrdom

#mas# but

#más# more, most; higher; moreover; still more; #no --# no longer; #--
que, -- de# more than; #no hay --# there is no other; #por -- que#
however, however much

#máscara# mask

#matar# kill; #-- de celos# afflict with jealousy

#materno# maternal

#mayor# greater, greatest

#mazmorra# dungeon

#médico# doctor

#medio# middle, midst

#meditar# meditate, reflect

#mejor# better; greater

#mella# indentation, impression

#menear# move, stir

#menester# _m._ need, necessity; #ser --# be necessary

#mengua# shame

#menguado# diminished; unhappy; #hora menguada# in a fatal moment

#menor# lesser, smaller

#menos# less; except; #lo --, al --# at least

#mensajero# messenger

#mentar# mention, relate

#mentido# false

#mentir# lie

#mentira# lie; #es --# it is not true

#mercader# _m._ merchant

#merced# mercy; favor, kindness; #-- a# thanks to; #hacer --# benefit

#merecer# merit, deserve, claim

#mesa# table

#mezclar# mix

#miedo# fear

#mientras# while, whilst; as long as

#milagro# miracle

#mirad# (_imper. 2d pl. of_ #mirar#) bear in mind, consider

#mirada# glance, look, gaze

#mirar# see, look at; bear in mind, remember; #-- por# look out for;
#miren# just look; #-se# look at oneself, be reflected

#miserable# wretch, miserable fellow

#mísero# wretched

#mismo# same; very; #por lo --# therefore

#misterio# mystery

#mitad# middle, half

#mitigar# mitigate, appease

#mocedad# youth

#moderar# moderate

#modo# way, means; #¿de qué --?# in what way, how?

#modorra# drowsiness

#monstruo# monster, wicked person

#Monzón# _small town in Catalonia, between Saragossa and Barcelona_

#morada# abode, dwelling

#morder# bite; #-- la tierra# bite the dust

#morir# die; kill; #más que a --# far worse than death

#morisco# Moorish; Morisco

#moro# Moor, Moorish

#mortaja# shroud

#mostrar# show

#muchacho# boy

#mudanza# change (_of mind or purpose_)

#mudar# change; #-- de casa# move into another house

#mudo# dumb, mute

#muerte# _f_. death; #de --# mortal

#muerto# dead; #el --# the dead man

#mujer# _f._ woman, wife

#mundo# world

#muralla# wall; rampart

#muriendo# _(ger. of_ #morir#) dying, in mortal pain

#muro# wall

#musulmán, -a#, Mohammedan


#N#

#nacer# be born, come into the world; spring; grow; #al --# at birth;
#anticipado al --# present before birth, prenatal; #¿de qué ha nacido?#
what has been the cause of?

#nada# nothing

#nadie# no one

#narcótico# narcotic, sleeping potion

#nariz# _f._ nose

#naturaleza# nature

#necesitado# needy; one in need of

#necesitar# need, have need of

#necio# foolish; fool

#negar# deny, refuse

#negociar# negotiate; #-- con# induce

#negro# black, dark; sad, gloomy; hostile

#ni# neither, either; even; #-- ... --# neither ... nor; #-- siquiera#
not even

#nieve# _f._ snow

#niño, -a# boy, girl

#noble# noble; nobleman

#nobleza# nobility, generosity

#noche# _f._ night; #esta --# to-night; #esta -- misma# this very night

#nombre# _m._ name

#norabuena (en hora buena)# all right; good!

#noticia# news, account, information, announcement

#notorio# notorious

#novedad# novelty; news; #¿es --?# is it unusual? #¿es -- que?# is it a
secret that?

#novio, -a# bridegroom, bride; #¿qué trazas éstas de novias?# isn't she
a fine bride? (_ironical_)

#nube# _f._ cloud, mist

#nueva# news, tidings

#nuevo# new

#nunca# never, ever


#O#

#o# or, either

#obedecer# obey

#obligación# obligation, duties

#obra# work

#obrar# work; bring about

#obsequioso# obliging, courteous

#ocasión# chance, opportunity

#ocultar# hide, conceal

#oculto# hidden; secretly

#ocupar# occupy; #-se de# busy oneself with, give oneself up to; #ocupad
la silla# sit down, be seated

#odiar# hate

#odio# hate, hatred

#odioso# hateful

#ofender# insult, outrage; be offensive; trouble

#ofensa# offence, insult; #hacer -- de# feel offended by

#ofrecer# offer; be willing

#ofrecimiento# offer; promise

#ofrenda# votive offering; sacrifice

#oído# ear

#oír# hear, listen to

#¡ojalá!# would that they had!

#ojo# eye

#olvidar# forget

#opinión# reputation, good name

#oponerse a# oppose

#oprobio# shame

#opulencia# opulence, luxury

#opulento# wealthy

#orbe# _m._ world

#ordinario# ordinary; #de --# regularly

#orgullo# pride

#orgulloso# proud

#orilla# bank, shore; edge, brink; bounds; #-s# on the edge, brink (of)

#osar# dare

#ósculo# kiss

#oscuro# dark

#otorgar# grant

#otro# other


#P#

#pacífico# peaceful

#padecer# suffer, endure

#padecer# _m._ suffering, sorrow

#padre# father; #-s# parents; #el -- nuestro# the Lord's Prayer

#paga# payment

#pagar# pay; repay; pay for

#paisano# countryman; fellow countryman

#paja# straw

#paje# _m._ page

#palabra# word; promise

#palma# palm; hand; #-s# palm leaves; hands

#palpitar# beat, palpitate

#pan# _m._ bread; #a --# on bread

#par# even; #abrirse de -- en --# be thrown wide open

#para# for; in order to; as; #-- con# compared with; #--siempre#
forever; #-- que# in order that

#paradero# whereabouts

#parado# standing still, stopped short

#páramo# desolate plain, desert

#parar# stop; be; reside, live; #-se# stop; #ir a --# pierce; #en esto
paran# this is the end of

#parecer# seem; appear; #¿qué os parece#? how do you like?

#parecido# resembling; #todo --# closely resembling, very much like

#párpado# eyelid

#parte# _f._ part; place; #por otra --# moreover

#partida# parting, departure

#partido# match, game

#partir# depart, leave, set out; split, divide

#pasar# pass, happen; suffer; #-- con# happen to; #-- por# pass by; call
at; #lo que pasa# what is going on

#pasión# passion, love

#paso# step

#patria# native country _or_ place

#paz# _f._ peace

#pecho# breast; heart; #de -- blando# tender-hearted

#pedazo# piece; #-s del corazón# beloved ones

#pedir# ask for, call for, demand; #pidiendo a voces# calling loudly for

#peligro# danger

#pena# pain, sorrow, grief, suffering, affliction, regret; #-s#
distress; #en -- de# in punishment for

#pender de# depend on

#pensamiento# thought, mind

#pensar# think, intend, expect

#pequeño# little, small

#percibir# perceive, feel; smell

#perder# lose; destroy, ruin; #-se# be lost

#pérdida# loss

#perdonar# pardon

#perecer# perish, die

#peregrino# strange; pilgrim

#pérfidamente# perfidiously, through _or_ by treason

#pérfido# perfidious, unfaithful; traitor

#perjuro# perjured; disloyal, unfaithful

#permitir# permit; #permita Dios# God grant

#perseguir# pursue

#persona# person; #-s# cast, characters (_in a play_); #tu --# you

#persuadirse# be persuaded _or_ convinced

#pesadumbre# _f._ sadness, sorrow, grief; displeasure

#pesar# weigh, be heavy, grieve

#pesar# _m._ sorrow, grief

#pestañear# blink

#piadoso# pitiful, merciful

#pie# _m._ foot

#piedad# pity, mercy

#piedra# stone

#pieza# piece; room; #buena -- a# shameless creature

#pincel# _m._ brush

#pintar# paint; describe

#pisada# footstep

#pisar# tread upon, trample; despise; cross

#pláceme# _m._ congratulation

#planta# sole of the foot; foot

#plantar# set up

#plática# talk; #-- sin provecho# idle, useless talk

#plazo# term, time set; #corrido el --# the expiration of the time set

#plegaria# prayer

#poblador# founder, settler

#pobre# poor

#pobrecillo# poor fellow

#pobrecito# poor fellow

#poco# little, small, few; #-- ha# a short time ago

#poder# be able, can, may, _etc._, be able to do; #hasta -- salir# until
he was able to get out

#poder# _m._ power

#poderoso# powerful, strong; wealthy

#pomito# small flask, vial

#poner# put, set, fix, put on; #-- en# give, offer; #-- término#
terminate; #-- hecha una imagen# make pretty as a picture; #pon aquí#
give me

#por# for, because of, out of, as, by way of, in order to, in the name
of, through, in; #-- ahora# for the present; #-- allá# thereabouts; --
#allí# along there; #-- aquí cerca# in this vicinity; #-- dentro#
within, from within; off the stage; #-- este lado# this way; #-- él# as
far as he is concerned; #-- sí# in itself; through his own efforts; #--
la noche# at night; #-- ser# because I am; #-- más que# however, however
much

#porque# because, for, in order that

#¿por qué?# why

#porqué# _m._ cause, reason

#porte# _m._ conduct, bearing

#pos: en -- de# after, in pursuit of

#postrado# prostrate; #-- por el suelo# humbled to the dust

#postrar# prostrate, cast down; #-- por el suelo# overthrow, make bite
the dust

#postrero# last

#potro# rack, torture

#precioso# precious

#precipitado# precipitate, hasty

#preciso# necessary

#preferir# prefer

#preguntar# ask, ask about, question

#premiar# reward

#prenda# pledge, token; treasure; beloved one, sweetheart; #-s#
qualities, appearance; #idolatrada --# object of worship; #-- querida#
beloved one, dearest

#prendarse de# fall in love with

#prender# take, capture; take root

#presagio# omen

#presenciar# witness, be present at

#presentarse# appear

#presentir# have a presentiment _or_ foreboding of

#presidir# preside

#preso# prisoner

#prestar# lend, give

#presto# soon, quickly

#pretender# solicit, seek, desire; try, endeavor

#prevenir# announce

#previsión# foresight

#primero# first; rather; #-- que# before

#princesa# princess

#principal# noble; #varón --# gentleman, man of honor

#príncipe# _m._ prince

#principiar# begin

#prisa# haste

#prisión# prison; #prisiones# bonds

#privar# deprive

#probar# taste; take

#procurar# try, endeavor

#prodigar# lavish upon

#prodigio# marvel

#prodigioso# marvelous; remarkable

#prófugo# fugitive from justice, outlaw

#profundo# deep

#prójimo# fellow man; person; fellow

#prometer# promise, offer

#pronosticar# predict

#pronto# ready; quickly, at once

#pronunciar# pronounce, speak

#propicio# propitious, favorable

#propio# proper; #la propia Zulima# Zulima herself

#proponerse# resolve

#proporcionar# provide with, furnish

#propósito# purpose; #a --# for the purpose, suitable

#proscenio# proscenium, front of stage (_that part of stage between the
curtain and the orchestra_)

#proseguir# continue

#proteger# protect

#provecho# profit; #sin --# idle, useless

#providencial# providential; #acto --# act of providence

#próvido# provident; providently

#provocar# cause

#próximo# next, near; approaching

#prueba# proof

#pudiera# (_imp. subj. of_ #poder#) might, might well; #mal --# I could
hardly be so....

#pueblo# people; town

#puerta# door; #a esotra --# try the other door (she hears nothing)

#pues# then, well, well then; #-- bien# well then, very well

#puesto# (_p.p. of_ #poner#) set; #puesta ya en salvo# as soon as she has
escaped

#puesto# place, post

#pujanza# power, might

#punta# point

#punto# point; place; #al --# at once

#puñal# _m._ poniard, dagger

#pureza# purity


#Q#

#que# that, who; in order that; for; when; #diré -- no# I shall refuse

#¿qué?# what; how? #¿A qué?# why?

#quebrantar# break

#quebrar# break, burst

#quedar# remain; be left; be; #-- con# retain, be left with; #-se#
remain; #se quedó triste# she was sad when I left

#queja# complaint; #dar -s# make complaints, complain

#quemar# burn

#querella# complaint

#querer# wish; love; wish to keep; #dondequiera# wherever he pleases;
#no lo quiera Dios# God forbid; #Dios quiso# it was God's will; #quiso#
she tried

#quien# who; he who, the one who, she who; #tienen -- los#

#defienda# they have some one to defend them

#quieto# quiet; quietly

#quince# fifteen

#quiso# _see_ #querer#

#quitar# take off _or_ away _or_ from

#quizá# perchance, perhaps


#R#

#rabioso# furious; passionate

#radiante# radiant, brilliant

#rasgar# rend, cut open, pierce

#rastro# trail

#rato# short time, while

#rayar# border on

#rayo# ray, flash of light, lightning, thunderbolt; #-- del cielo# by
the power of Allah

#razón# _f._ reason, reasoning; account, information; #razones#
intercession

#real# royal

#rebato# excitement, commotion

#rebelarse# revolt, resist

#rebelde# rebellious

#rebelión# rebellion

#recato# modesty

#recelar# fear, dread

#recibir# receive, admit, let in

#reclamar# claim as one's due, demand

#recobrar# recover

#recoger# pick up, take up, find

#reconvenir con# reproach for

#recordar# recall, remind; remember

#recorrer# run through, hurry through

#recuerdo# memory, recollection, remembrance; recognition

#rechazar# repulse

#rededor# _m._ surroundings; #al -- de# around

#redimir# redeem, liberate

#reflexión# reflection; hesitation, reluctance

#refugiado# refugee

#refugiarse# take refuge

#refundir# recast, rearrange

#regalo# present

#regla# rule, precept

#rehusar# refuse

#reina# queen

#reinar# reign; predominate; dwell, be

#reino# kingdom

#reír# laugh; #-se de# laugh at

#reja# grating

#relicario# locket

#remediar# remedy, help

#rencor# _m._ hatred; #-es# hatred, enmity

#rencoroso# rancorous, spiteful

#rendido# devoted

#rendimiento# submission

#rendir# give up, surrender, deliver, give in; return; overcome; #-se#
surrender

#renegado# renegade, deserter, traitor

#renunciar# renounce, give up

#reparar en# notice, observe

#reparo# criticism, censure

#repente# _m._ sudden movement; #de --# suddenly

#replicar# reply

#reponerse# recover

#repulsa# refusal

#rescate# _m._ ransom

#resentimiento# resentment, grudge

#resistir# resist, endure, stand

#resolver# determine, make up one's mind; #-se# resolve

#respirar# breathe, breathe again

#respuesta# answer

#restablecido# restored

#restar# remain; #lo que de vivir me resta# the rest of my life

#resucitado# returning from the dead

#resucitar# come to life

#resuelto# resolved, decided

#retardar# delay, detain

#retirarse# retreat, withdraw; go away; #se fué retirando atrás# kept
drawing back

#retiro# secluded place; prison

#reto# challenge

#retrato# portrait, picture

#retrete# _m._ boudoir, dressing room

#revelación# revelation; #qué -- tan grata# what a welcome revelation

#revelar# reveal, show; #-se contra# oppose

#reverente# respectful

#revés# _m._ reverse, misfortune

#rey# _m._ king

#reyezuelo# petty king, kinglet

#rezar# pray, say in prayer, recite

#ricamente# richly

#rico# rich

#riesgo# danger, peril; dangerous situation, place of danger

#rigor# _m._ severity; disdain; #-es# severity, harshness

#rigoroso# austere

#riña# quarrel

#río# river, stream; #a -s# in floods

#riqueza# riches, wealth; #-s# riches

#risa# laughter

#risueño# smiling, pleasant; #que alimentaba risueña# that nourished
with smiling hopes

#rodar# roll; be tossed about

#rodilla# knee

#rogar# ask, beseech, pray

#rojo# red

#romper# break, break open, break down, rend, destroy, tear up

#rostro# face

#roto# broken

#ruego# prayer, entreaty

#rugir# rage, roar

#ruin# base, depraved

#rumor# _m._ noise


#S#

#saber# know, know how to, be able, learn, be informed, find out; #-se#
be known; #al -se# on becoming known; #al -se mi delito# when my sin
became known

#sabio# wise; wisely

#sacar# draw, bring forth, take, take out

#sacerdote# _m._ priest

#saciar# satiate

#sacrílego# sacrilegious

#sagrado# sacred

#sala# room

#salir# go out, leave; get out; cast off; come out; go forth _or_ about;
enter (_stage_); #-- al camino# go out to meet

#salón# _m._ large hall

#salud# health

#salvador# _m._ savior

#salvar# save, rescue; conceal

#salve# _f. prayer to the Virgin Mary, beginning: Salve Regina_

#salvo# safe; safety; #puesta ya en --# as soon as she has escaped

#sangre# _f._ blood; race; family; #a -- y fuego# with fire and sword

#sangriento# bloody

#santo# holy

#sañudo# furious, wrathful

#satisfacer# satisfy

#sayal# _m._ sackcloth

#sé# _2d per. imper. of_ #ser#

#secreto# secrecy

#sed# _f._ thirst

#sedicioso# seditious

#sediento de# thirsting for

#seducir# charm, captivate

#seguir# follow, pursue; continue

#según# as, according to, just as; #-- se me dice# according to what
they tell me

#segundo# second

#seguro# safe, secure

#seis# six

#sellar# seal, stamp; outline

#sembrar# sow

#semejanza# likeness

#seno# breast, bosom, heart; cavity, enclosure

#sensible# sensitive

#sentado# seated

#sentarse# sit down

#sentido# sense; mind, consciousness; sentient being

#sentimiento# grief

#sentir# feel; hear

#seña# sign, proof; #por -s que# as proof that; for the reason that,
seeing that

#señal# _m._ indication, trace, proof, signal

#señalar# indicate, point to, show

#señor# _m._ master; Lord; sir, sire

#señora# lady, mistress; madam; #Nuestra --# Virgin Mary

#señorear# dominate; overtop

#separado# separate

#sepultar# bury

#sepultura# tomb

#ser# be; #el -- mujer# the fact that she is a woman; #-- propias de#
belong to; #-- de# belong to; #no soy mía# I do not belong to myself;
#siendo mal#, if it is evil; #¿qué ha sido de?# what has become of?

#ser# _m._ life, being, state

#sereno# serene, undisturbed

#servir# serve

#seso# sense, prudence; #hombre de --# prudent man

#severo# cruel

#si# if, whether; why; #por -- es# lest it be; #-- no# only, at least

#sí# yes, indeed, truly; #creo que --# I believe it, so; #-- que# I know
well that; #-- tal# of course; #ello --# the fact is

#sí# himself, herself, itself, _etc._; #por --# in itself

#siempre# always; #para --# forever; #-- que# whenever

#siete# seven

#siguiente# following

#silla# chair

#sillón# _m._ large chair, armchair

#sinceridad# sincerity

#singular# strange

#Sion# Zion, Jerusalem

#siquiera# even

#Siria# Syria

#soberana# queen, sovereign

#soberanía# sovereignty

#soberano# supreme

#soberbio# proud

#sobrar# exceed, be more than enough; #todo me sobra# all the rest is
superfluous; #valor le sobra# he has more than enough courage

#sobre# on, upon; in regard to, as to, because of

#sobrellevar# endure

#sobresalto# start, sudden surprise

#socorro# help

#soldado# soldier

#soledad# loneliness

#soler# be wont, be accustomed to

#solo# alone, only; #a solas# alone

#sólo# only

#soltar# discharge, give vent to, let loose

#sollozar# weep, sob

#sombra# spirit

#son# _m._ sound

#sonar# sound

#sonido# sound

#sonrisa# smile

#sonrojo# blush; shame; indignity; insult

#soñar# dream; #-- con# dream of; flatter oneself with

#sorprender# take by surprise

#sorpresa# surprise

#sosegar# rest

#sosiego# calm, peace of mind

#sospechar# suspect

#sostener# sustain, hold

#súbdito# subject

#subir# ascend

#subterráneo# underground passage

#suceder# happen; #¿qué sucede?# what's wrong? what is it? #suceda lo
que suceda# come what may

#suceso# event, incident; #todo el --# all that has happened

#suelo# floor, pavement, ground

#sueño# dream

#suerte# _f._ fate; condition; #en --# by fate; #caber en -- a# be
decreed by fate for, be predestined for

#sufrido# patient, resigned

#sufrir# endure, suffer

#sujetar# dominate, overcome; bow, bend; ward off

#sujeto# subject, bound

#sultana# sultana (_wife of a sultan or Mohammedan ruler_)

#suma# sum, conclusion; #en --# in short, after all; nothing more

#sumido# sunk; buried

#sumiso# submissive, compliant

#sumo# excessive, extreme

#supe# (_pret. of_ #saber#) I found out _or_ learned

#superar# surpass

#súplica# prayer

#suplicar# beg, pray

#suplicio# punishment

#suplir# take the place of

#suponer# suppose, accept, take for granted

#supuesto# supposed

#suspender# postpone

#suspirar# sigh

#suspiro# sigh

#sustento# food

#susto# fear, fright

#sutil# sharp


#T#

#tacha# spot, blemish

#tal# certain, such a; #-- vez# perhaps

#tálamo# bridal bed, bride chamber; #-- de# marriage with

#taller# _m._ shop, workshop

#tamaño# such, so great

#también# also

#tampoco# neither, either

#tan# so; #-- ... como# as ... as

#tanto# so much; so long; #hacía --# for so long; #-- ... como# as well
as

#tardanza# delay

#tardar# delay; #-- mucho en# be long in

#tarde# late, too late

#teatro# theatre; stage

#techo# roof

#temblar# tremble with fear

#temer# fear

#temeridad# rashness; #ya poco distante de la --# that borders on
rashness

#temible# terrible, dreaded

#templar# temper, appease

#templario# Templar (_member of the military order founded 1118 for the
defence of the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem_)

#templo# church

#tenaz# tenacious, obstinate; profound

#tender# stretch, extend, lay out

#tener# have, take, receive; provide; consider; #-- de, -- que# have to;
#-- a bien# consider proper to, grant, be good enough to; #-- la culpa#
be to blame; #-- noticia# hear, learn; #-- por# consider as; #-- trazas
de# manage, succeed in; #ten# here it is

#término# term, limited time, time set; boundary; #poner --# terminate;
#limitar -s# form the boundaries of, bound

#ternura# tenderness, love

#terreno# ground, earth

#Teruel# _capital of the Province of Teruel, Aragón, on the left bank of
the Guadalaviar, 72 miles northwest of Valencia. Pop. in 1910, 11,035_

#tesón# _m._ tenacity, obstinacy

#tesoro# treasure

#testigo# witness

#tiempo# occasion; circumstances; #a --# in time; #tan a --# so
opportunely; #a buen --# opportunely; #-- hace que# some time ago

#tierno# tender, loving; young

#tierra# land, ground; floor; #morder la --# bite the dust

#tigre# tiger, tigress

#tiniebla# darkness; #-s# utter darkness

#tino# skill; skilful touch

#tinta# ink

#tirador# _m._ sharpshooter, marksman

#tiranía# tyranny

#tirano# tyrant

#tocado# coiffure, arrangement of the hair

#tocar# touch; behoove, befit, be befitting; fall to the lot of; #a él
le toca# it is his place; #-- a vísperas# ring for vespers

#todavía# still, yet; #no ...# not yet.

#todo# all; quite; #del --# entirely

#tomar# take, get; #toma# here

#toque# _m._ ringing of bells; #al -- de vísperas# at the call to
vespers

#tormento# torment, sorrow

#tornar# turn, return

#torneo# tournament

#torre#, _f._ tower

#torreón# _m._ fortified tower

#trabar# join; enter into

#traer# bring, carry, fetch; lead; cause, produce; #-- la arrastrando#
drag her here

#traición# treason; #a --# treacherously

#traidor, -a# false; traitor; wretch

#traje# _m._ dress; #en -- de# dressed as; #con -- de hombre# in male
attire

#traje, trajo# _pret. of_ #traer#

#trama# plot, conspiracy

#trance# _m._ peril, critical moment; #en -- tan decisivo# in such a
critical moment _or_ situation

#tranquilizarse# become quiet, be calm

#tras# after, behind, in the wake of

#trastornado# dazed

#trastornarse# be dazed, be overcome

#tratar# try; plan to; be acquainted with; #-- de# try; #-se de# be a
question of

#traza# aspect, appearance; #tener -- de# resemble, seem to be; ¿#qué -s
éstas de novia#? isn't she a fine bride? (_sarcastic_)

#treinta# thirty

#tremendo# terrible, fatal, violent

#trémulo# trembling

#tres# three; #los --# all three of us

#triste# sad, unfortunate; unhappy man

#triunfante# victor

#triunfar# triumph; #-- de# triumph over; #se triunfa# victory is
achieved

#triunfo# triumph

#trocar# change, commute, convert; #-- en# exchange for

#tronco# trunk, tree

#trono# throne

#tropa# troop, company

#tropel# _m._ crowd; confusion

#túmulo# grave

#tumulto# tumult, commotion

#turba# crowd

#Turia# _or_ #Guadalaviar# _river rising in the Albarracin range in the
Province of Teruel and flowing into the Mediterranean at Valencia_


#U#

#ufano# arrogant, boastful; arrogantly

#último# last; #por --# finally

#ultraje# _m._ outrage

#umbral# _m._ threshold

#único# only

#unir# join, unite; #-os a mí# marry you

#usar# use; #para usado# when used, considering that it is used

#útil# useful


#V#

#vacío# emptiness

#vagar# wander

#Valencia# _important seaport on the Mediterranean at the month of the
Guadalaviar or Turia. Pop, about 250,000. In 1021 it became the capital
of an independent Moorish kingdom. It was finally reconquered by James
of Aragon, El Conquistador, in 1238_

#valer# be worth; avail, help, protect; #más vale# it is better

#valeroso# valiant

#valor# _m._ courage

#valle# _m._ valley

#vamos# well, come, come now

#vanidad# vanity, pride

#vano# vain, useless

#vanse# exeunt; they go off the stage

#varón# man; #-- principal# man of honor, gentleman

#vasallo# vassal, subject

#vase# exit

#vaya# come

#ve# _imper. 2d sing, of_ #ir#

#vecindad# vicinity

#vecino# citizen

#vedar# forbid

#velar# be watchful

#velo# veil

#veloz# swift, fleet

#vena# vein

#vencedor# conqueror, victor

#vencer# conquer, overcome

#vencimiento# expiration

#vender# sell

#veneno# poison

#venenoso# poisonous, venomous

#vengar# avenge, give vengeance; #-se# take vengeance

#vengativo# revengeful, vindictive

#venir# come; be; #bien venido# welcome; #viene a ser ésta# can this be;
#que vino a dejarle# that left him at last; #venga# let me have it

#ventana# window

#ventura# good fortune, happiness; #por --# perchance

#venturoso# happy

#ver# see; #-se# see each other; be; #-se con vida# be still living; #a
--# tell me; come now; #ya ves# you see for yourself

#veras# reality, truth; #de --# in truth

#verdad# truth

#verdadero# real, genuine

#verdugo# executioner

#verter# shed, spread; #-- en# exceed, abound in; show up

#vestido# dress

#vestir# dress; put on; #vestida la cota# wearing his coat of mail

#vete# _imper. 2d sing. of_ #irse#

#vez# _f._ time; #en -- de# instead of; #una --# once; #tal --# perhaps;
#a veces# at times

#viaje# _m._ journey

#vicio# weakness

#vida# life; kind of life; #en --# while still living

#vileza# baseness

#villa# town, countryseat (_Because of certain privileges granted to it,
the_ #villa# _was thereby distinguished from_ #aldeas# _and_ #lugares#)

#villano# base, infamous; basely

#vínculo# bond

#vino# _3d per. pret. of_ #venir#

#violenta# against her will

#víspera# evening _or_ day before; #-s# vespers

#vista# sight; eyes

#visteis# _2d pl. pret. of_ #ver#

#vital# living; of life

#viuda# widow

#vivir# live, be alive, feel new life; #vive el cielo# by heavens

#vivir# _m._ life

#vivo# living; deep, keen, bright

#vocería# clamor, cries

#volar# fly, fly away

#voluntad# will, wishes

#volver# return; #-- a# turn away from; #-- a ser# be again; #-- en sí#
return to consciousness

#vos, vosotros# _less formal than_ #Usted# _and more courteous than_
#tú# _when used in addressing one person_

#voto# vow; imprecation

#voz# _f._ voice; words; word of command; #es --# it is said, it is well
known; #a voces# shouting; loudly

#vuelta# return

#vuelto# _p.p. of_ #volver#

#vulgar# commonplace


#Y#

#ya# indeed, of course, at last, already, now, surely; and so, so then;
#-- ... no# no longer; #-- lo ves# you see for yourself; #-- en el
confín# in the very outskirts; #-- que# seeing that, since, now that,
just as

#yacer# lie

#yerno# son-in-law

#yerto# tense, rigid

#yugo# yoke


#Z#

#zaguán# _m._ entrance, hall