Produced by Charlene Taylor, Jonathan Ingram, Keith Edkins
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Library of Early
Journals.)


{469} NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 185.]
Saturday, May 14, 1853.
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                            Page
    English Books of Emblems, by the Rev. Thomas Corser                469
    Author of Tract on "Advantages of the East India
      Trade, 1720, 8vo.," by James Crossley                            471
    "Ake" and "Ache," by Thomas Keightley                              472
    Localities mentioned in Anglo-Saxon Charters, by B.
      Williams                                                         473
    Inedited Letter                                                    473
    A Shaksperian Book                                                 474
    MINOR NOTES:--Shakspeare's Monument--Archbishop
      Leighton and Pope: Curious Coincidence Of Thought
      and Expression--Grant of Slaves--Sealing-wax                     475

  QUERIES:--
    Walmer Castle, by C. Waymor                                        475
    Scotchmen in Poland, by Peter Cunningham                           475
    Bishop Juxon and Walton's Polyglott Bible                          476
    MINOR QUERIES:--Was Andrew Marvell poisoned?--Anonymous
      Pamphlet by Dr. Wallis--Mrs. Cobb's
      Diary--Compass Flower--Nuns of the Hotel Dieu--
      Purlieu--Jennings Family--Latimer's Brothers-in-
      Law--Autobiographical Sketch--Schonbornerus--Symbol
      of Globe and Cross--Booth Family--Ennui--Bankruptcy
      Records--Golden Bees--The Grindstone
      Oak--Hogarth--Adamsons of Perth--Cursitor Barons
      of the Exchequer--Syriac Scriptures                              476

  REPLIES:--
    Psalmanazar, by Rev. Dr. Maitland                                  479
    Consecrated Roses, &c., by William J. Thoms                        480
    Campbell's Imitations                                              481
    "The Hanover Rat"                                                  481
    Font Inscriptions                                                  482
    Irish Rhymes: English Provincialisms: Lowland Scotch               483
    Pictures by Hogarth                                                484
    PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Washing Collodion
      Process--Colouring Collodion Pictures--Wanted, a
      simple Test for a good Lens--Photographic Tent:
      Restoration of Faded Negatives                                   484
    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Gibbon's Library--Robert
      Drury--Grub Street Journal--Wives of Ecclesiastics--Blanco
      White--Captain Ayloff--General
      Monk and the University of Cambridge--The Ribston
      Pippin--Cross and Pile--Ellis Walker--Blackguard--
      Talleyrand--Lord King and Sclater--"Beware the
      Cat"--"Bis dat qui cito dat"--High Spirits a Presage
      of Evil--Colonel Thomas Walcott--Wood of the
      Cross: Mistletoe--Irish Office for Prisoners--Andries
      de Græff: Portraits at Brickwall House--"Qui facit
      per alium, facit per se"--Christian Names--Lamech's
      War-song--Traitor's Ford                                         485

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, &c.                                                489
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                       490
    Notices to Correspondents                                          490
    Advertisements                                                     490


       *       *       *       *       *


Notes.

ENGLISH BOOKS OF EMBLEMS.

It is a remarkable circumstance that whilst the emblems of Alciatus Vent
through almost innumerable editions, and were translated into most of the
continental languages, no version of these Emblems should ever have been
printed in this country, although we believe that MS. translations of them
are in existence. It is remarkable also that more than half century should
have elapsed after their appearance, before any English publication on this
subject should have been committed to the press. Our English authors of
Books of Emblems were not only late in their appearance, but are few in
number, and in their embellishments not very original, the plates being for
the most part mere copies of those already published abroad by Herman Hugo,
Rollenhagius, and others. The notices of the English writers on this
entertaining subject are also but meagre and imperfect, and restricted to a
very few works; both Dibdin, in his slight and rapid sketch on Books of
Emblems in the _Bibliogr. Decam._, vol. i. p. 254., and the writer in the
_Retrosp. Rev._, vol. ix. p. 123., having confined their remarks to some
one or two of the leading writers only, Arwaker, Peacham, Quarles, Whitney,
and Wither. With the exception of an occasional article in the _Bibl. Ang.
Poet._, _Cens. Liter. Restituta_, and similar bibliographical volumes, we
are not aware that any other notice has been taken of this particular
branch of our literature[1], nor does there exist, {470} that we know of,
any complete, separate, and distinct catalogue of such works.

Being anxious, therefore, to obtain a correct account of what may be termed
the English Series of Books of Emblems, I inclose a list of all those in my
own possession, and of the titles of such others as I have been able to
collect; and I shall be glad if any of your readers can make any additions
to the series, confining them at the same time strictly to Books of
Emblems, and not admitting fables, heraldic works, or older publications
not coming within the same category. A good comprehensive work on this
subject of Books of Emblems, not confined merely to the English series, but
embracing the whole foreign range, giving an account both of the writers of
the verses, and also of the engravers, and the different styles of art in
each, is still a great desideratum in our literary history; and if ably and
artistically done, with suitable illustrations of the various engravings
and other ornaments, would form a very interesting, instructive, and
entertaining volume; and I sincerely hope that the time will not be far
distant when such a volume will be found in our libraries.

I conclude with a Query of inquiry, whether anything is known of the
present resting-place of a _Treatise on Emblems_, which the late Mr. Beloe
informs us, at the close of his _Literary Anecdotes_, vol. vi. p. 406., he
had written at "considerable length," from communications furnished him by
the Marquis of Blandford, whose collection of Emblems was at that time one
of the richest and most extensive in the kingdom, and whose treatise, if
published, might perhaps prove a valuable addition to our information on
this portion of our literature.

I would also inquire who was Thomas Combe, and what did he write, who is
thus mentioned by Meres in his _Palladis Tamia: Wits Treasury_, Lond. 1598,
8vo., as one of our English writers of Emblems: "As the Latines have those
emblematists, Andreas Alciatus, Reusnerus, and Sambucus, so we have these,
Geffrey Whitney, Andrew Willet, and _Thomas Combe_." Is anything known of
the latter, or of his writings?

THOMAS CORSER.

Stand Rectory.

_List of English Writers of Books of Emblems._

A. (H.) Parthenia Sacra, of the Mysterious and Delicious Garden of the
Sacred Parthenis: Symbolically set forth and enriched with Pious Devises
and Emblems for the entertainment of devout Soules, &c. By H. A. Plates.
8vo. Printed by John Cousturier, 1633.

Abricht (John A. M.). Divine Emblems. Embellished with Etchings of Copper
after the fashion of Master Francis Quarles. 12mo. Lond. 1838.

Arwaker (Edmund). Pia Desideria, or Divine Addresses in Three Books. With
47 Copper Plates by Sturt. 8vo. Lond. 1686.

Ashrea: or the Grove of Beatitudes. Represented in Emblemes: and by the Art
of Memory to be read on our Blessed Saviour Crucified, &c. 12mo. Lond.
1665.

Astry (Sir James). The Royal Politician represented in One Hundred Emblems.
Written in Spanish by Don Diego Saavedra Faxardo, &c. Done into English
from the Original. By Sir James Astry. In Two Vols. With Portrait of
William Duke of Gloucester, and other Plates. 8vo. Lond. 1700. Printed for
Matthew Gylliflower.

Ayres (Philip). Emblemata Amatoria. Emblems of Love in Four Languages.
Dedicated to the Ladys. By Ph. Ayres, Esq. With 44 Plates on Copper. 8vo.
Lond. 1683.

Barclay (Alexander).[2] The Ship of Fooles, wherein is shewed the folly of
all States, &c. Translated out of Latin into Englishe. With numerous
Woodcuts. Imprinted by John Cawood. Folio, bl. letter, Lond. 1570.

Blount (Thomas). The Art of making Devises: treating of Hieroglyphicks,
Symboles, Emblemes, Ænigmas, &c. Translated from the French of Henry
Estienne. 4to. Lond. 1646.

Bunyan (John). Emblems by J. Bunyan. [I have not seen this work, but
suspect it is only a common chap-book. A copy was in one of Lilly's
Catalogues.]

Burton (R.). Choice Emblems, Divine and Moral, Ancient and Modern; or
Delights for the Ingenious in above Fifty Select Emblems, Curiously
Ingraven upon Copper Plates. With engraved Frontispiece, &c. 12mo. Lond.
1721. Printed for Edmund Parker.

Castanoza (John). The Spiritual Conflict, or The Arraignment of the Spirit
of Selfe-Love and Sensuality at the Barre of Truth and Reason. First
published in Spanish by the Reverend Father John Castanoza, afterwards put
into the Latin, Italian, German, French, and English Languages. With
numerous Engravings. 12mo. at Paris, 1652.

Choice Emblems, Natural, Historical, Fabulous, Moral, and Divine. 12mo.
Lond. 1772.

Colman (W.). La Dance Machabre, or Death's Duell, by W. C. With engraved
Frontispiece by Cecil, and Plate. 8vo. Lond. 163--.

Compendious Emblematist; or Writing and Drawing made easy. With many
Plates. 4to. Lond.

Emblems Divine, Moral, Natural, and Historical, Expressed in Sculpture, and
applied to the several Ages, Occasions, and Conditions of the Life of Man.
By a Person of Quality. With Woodcut Engravings and Metrical Illustrations.
8vo. Lond. 1673. Printed by J. C. for Will. Miller.

Emblems for the Entertainment and Improvement of Youth, with Explanations,
on 62 Copper Plates. White Knights. 8vo. n. d., Part I.

Emblems of Mortality. With Holbein's Cuts of the Dance of Death, modernized
and engraved by Bewick. Three Editions. 8vo. Lond. 1789.

Farlie (Robert). Lychnocausia, sive Moralia Facum Emblemata. Lights Morall
Emblems. Kalendarium {471} Humanæ Vitæ. The Kalendar of Man's Life. With
Frontispiece and numerous Woodcuts. 8vo. Lond. 1638.

Fransi (Abrahami). Insignium Armorum Emblematum Hieroglyphicorum et
Symbolorum Explicatio. No Plates. 4to. Lond. 1588.

G. (H.). The Mirrour of Majestie: or the Badges of Honour conceitedly
emblazoned. With Emblems annexed. 4to. 1618. [This is the rarest of the
English series; only two copies known, one perfect _penes_ me, and another
imperfect.]

Gent (Thomas). Divine Entertainments; of Penitential Desires, Sighs, and
Groans of the Wounded Soul. In Two Books, adorned with suitable Cuts. In
Verse. With numerous Woodcuts. 12mo. Lond. 1724.

