It was with curiously conflicting emotions that he watched the
ensuing Hazards of Hortense. He had to remind himself that the slim
little girl with the wistful eyes was not only not performing
certain feats of daring that the film exposed, but that she was Mrs.
Sigmund Rosenblatt and crazy about her husband. Yet the magic had
not wholly departed from this wronged heroine. He thought perhaps
this might be because he now knew, and actually liked, that
talkative Montague girl who would be doing the choice bits of this
drama. Certainly he was loyal to the hand that fed him.

Black Steve and his base crew, hirelings of the scoundrelly guardian
who was "a Power in Wall Street," again and again seemed to have
encompassed the ruin, body and soul, of the persecuted Hortense.
They had her prisoner in a foul den of Chinatown, whence she escaped
to balance precariously upon the narrow cornice of a skyscraper,
hundreds of feet above a crowded thoroughfare. They had her, as the
screen said, "Depressed by the Grim Menace of Tragedy that Impended
in the Shadows." They gave her a brief respite in one of those
gilded resorts "Where the Clink of Coin Opens Wide the Portals of
Pleasure, Where Wealth Beckons with Golden Fingers," but this was
only a trap for the unsuspecting girl, who was presently, sewed in a
plain sack, tossed from the stern of an ocean liner far out at sea
by creatures who would do anything for money--who, so it was said,
were Remorseless in the Mad Pursuit of Gain.

At certain gripping moments it became apparent to one of the
audience that Mrs. Sigmund Rosenblatt herself was no longer in
jeopardy. He knew the girl who was, and profoundly admired her
artistry as she fled along the narrow cornice of the skyscraper. For
all purposes she was Beulah Baxter. He recalled her figure as being-
-not exactly stubby, but at least not of marked slenderness. Yet in
the distance she was indeed all that an audience could demand. And
she was honest, while Mrs. Rosenblatt, in the Majestic Theatre at
Peoria, Illinois, had trifled airily with his faith in women and
deceived him by word of mouth.

He applauded loudly at the sensational finish, when Hortense,
driving her motor car at high speed across the great bridge, ran
into the draw, that opened too late for her to slow down, and
plunged to the cruel waters far below.

Mrs. Rosenblatt would possibly have been a fool to do this herself.
The Montague girl had been insistent on that point; there were
enough things she couldn't avoid doing, and all stars very sensibly
had doubles for such scenes when distance or action permitted. At
the same time, he could never again feel the same toward her.
Indeed, he would never have felt the same even had there been no
Rosenblatt. Art was art!

It was only five o'clock when he left the picture theatre, but he
ate again at the luxurious cafeteria. He ate a large steak, drank an
immense quantity of milk, and bought another box of candy on his way
to the Patterson home. Lights were on there, and he went in to face
the woman he had so long kept out of her money. She would probably
greet him coldly and tell him she was surprised at his actions.

Yet it seemed that he had been deceived in this society woman. She
was human, after all. She shook hands with him warmly and said they
were glad to see him back; he must have been out on location, and
she was glad they were not to lose him, because he was so quiet and
regular and not like some other motion-picture actors she had known.

