  DISTRESSING ACCIDENT.--Last evening, about six o'clock, as Mr.
  William Schuyler, an old and respectable citizen of South Park,
  was leaving his residence to go down-town, as has been his usual
  custom for many years with the exception only of a short interval
  in the spring of 1850, during which he was confined to his bed by
  injuries received in attempting to stop a runaway horse by
  thoughtlessly placing himself directly in its wake and throwing
  up his hands and shouting, which, if he had done so even a single
  moment sooner, must inevitably have frightened the animal still
  more instead of checking its speed, although disastrous enough to
  himself as it was, and rendered more melancholy and distressing
  by reason of the presence of his wife's mother, who was there and
  saw the sad occurrence, notwithstanding it is at least likely,
  though not necessarily so, that she should be reconnoitring in
  another direction when incidents occur, not being vivacious and
  on the lookout, as a general thing, but even the reverse, as her
  own mother is said to have stated, who is no more, but died in
  the full hope of a glorious resurrection, upward of three years
  ago, aged eighty-six, being a Christian woman and without guile,
  as it were, or property, in consequence of the fire of 1849,
  which destroyed every single thing she had in the world. But such
  is life. Let us all take warning by this solemn occurrence, and
  let us endeavor so to conduct ourselves that when we come to die
  we can do it. Let us place our hands upon our heart, and say with
  earnestness and sincerity that from this day forth we will beware
  of the intoxicating bowl.--_First edition of the Californian._

The head editor has been in here raising the mischief, and tearing
his hair and kicking the furniture about, and abusing me like a
pickpocket. He says that every time he leaves me in charge of the
paper for half an hour, I get imposed upon by the first infant or
the first idiot that comes along. And he says that that distressing
item of Mr. Bloke's is nothing but a lot of distressing bosh, and
has no point to it, and no sense in it, and no information in it,
and that there was no sort of necessity for stopping the press to
publish it.

Now all this comes of being good-hearted. If I had been as
unaccommodating and unsympathetic as some people, I would have told
Mr. Bloke that I wouldn't receive his communication at such a late
hour; but no, his snuffling distress touched my heart, and I jumped
at the chance of doing something to modify his misery. I never read
his item to see whether there was anything wrong about it, but
hastily wrote the few lines which preceded it, and sent it to the
printers. And what has my kindness done for me? It has done nothing
but bring down upon me a storm of abuse and ornamental blasphemy.

Now I will read that item myself, and see if there is any
foundation for all this fuss. And if there is, the author of it
shall hear from me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have read it, and I am bound to admit that it seems a little
mixed at a first glance. However, I will peruse it once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have read it again, and it does really seem a good deal more
mixed than ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have read it over five times, but if I can get at the meaning of
it, I wish I may get my just deserts. It won't bear analysis. There
are things about it which I cannot understand at all. It don't say
what ever became of William Schuyler. It just says enough about him
to get one interested in his career, and then drops him. Who is
William Schuyler, anyhow, and what part of South Park did he live in,
and if he started down-town at six o'clock, did he ever get there,
and if he did, did anything happen to him? Is _he_ the individual
that met with the "distressing accident"? Considering the elaborate
circumstantiality of detail observable in the item, it seems to me
that it ought to contain more information than it does. On the
contrary, it is obscure--and not only obscure, but utterly
incomprehensible. Was the breaking of Mr. Schuyler's leg, fifteen
years ago, the "distressing accident" that plunged Mr. Bloke into
unspeakable grief, and caused him to come up here at dead of night
and stop our press to acquaint the world with the circumstance? Or
did the "distressing accident" consist in the destruction of
Schuyler's mother-in-law's property in early times? Or did it consist
in the death of that person herself three years ago (albeit it does
not appear that she died by accident)? In a word, what _did_ that
"distressing accident" consist in? What did that drivelling ass of a
Schuyler stand _in the wake_ of a runaway horse for, with his
shouting and gesticulating, if he wanted to stop him? And how the
mischief could he get run over by a horse that had already passed
beyond him? And what are we to take "warning" by? And how is this
extraordinary chapter of incomprehensibilities going to be a "lesson"
to us? And, above all, what has the intoxicating "bowl" got to do
with it, anyhow? It is not stated that Schuyler drank, or that his
wife drank, or that his mother-in-law drank, or that the horse
drank--wherefore, then, the reference to the intoxicating bowl? It
does seem to me that if Mr. Bloke had let the intoxicating bowl alone
himself, he never would have got into so much trouble about this
exasperating imaginary accident. I have read this absurd item over
and over again, with all its insinuating plausibility, until my head
swims, but I can make neither head nor tail of it. There certainly
seems to have been an accident of some kind or other, but it is
impossible to determine what the nature of it was, or who was the
sufferer by it. I do not like to do it, but I feel compelled to
request that the next time anything happens to one of Mr. Bloke's
friends, he will append such explanatory notes to his account of it
as will enable me to find out what sort of an accident it was and whom
it happened to. I had rather all his friends should die than that I
should be driven to the verge of lunacy again in trying to cipher out
the meaning of another such production as the above.

[Illustration: "I HAVE READ THIS ABSURD ITEM OVER"]


How I Edited an Agricultural Paper


I did not take temporary editorship of an agricultural paper
without misgivings. Neither would a landsman take command of a ship
without misgivings. But I was in circumstances that made the salary
an object. The regular editor of the paper was going off for a
holiday, and I accepted the terms he offered, and took his place.

The sensation of being at work again was luxurious, and I wrought
all the week with unflagging pleasure. We went to press, and I
waited a day with some solicitude to see whether my effort was
going to attract any notice. As I left the office, towards sundown,
a group of men and boys at the foot of the stairs dispersed with
one impulse, and gave me passageway, and I heard one or two of them
say, "That's him!" I was naturally pleased by this incident. The
next morning I found a similar group at the foot of the stairs, and
scattering couples and individuals standing here and there in the
street, and over the way, watching me with interest. The group
separated and fell back as I approached, and I heard a man say,
"Look at his eye!" I pretended not to observe the notice I was
attracting, but secretly I was pleased with it, and was purposing
to write an account of it to my aunt. I went up the short flight of
stairs, and heard cheery voices and a ringing laugh as I drew near
the door, which I opened, and caught a glimpse of two young
rural-looking men, whose faces blanched and lengthened when they
saw me, and then they both plunged through the window with a great
crash. I was surprised.

In about half an hour an old gentleman, with a flowing beard and a
fine but rather austere face, entered, and sat down at my invitation.
He seemed to have something on his mind. He took off his hat and set
it on the floor, and got out of it a red silk handkerchief and a copy
of our paper.

He put the paper on his lap, and while he polished his spectacles
with his handkerchief, he said, "Are you the new editor?"

I said I was.

"Have you ever edited an agricultural paper before?"

"No," I said; "this is my first attempt."

"Very likely. Have you had any experience in agriculture
practically?"

"No; I believe I have not."

"Some instinct told me so," said the old gentleman, putting on his
spectacles, and looking over them at me with asperity, while he
folded his paper into a convenient shape. "I wish to read you what
must have made me have that instinct. It was this editorial.
Listen, and see if it was you that wrote it:

  "Turnips should never be pulled, it injures them. It is much
  better to send a boy up and let him shake the tree."

"Now, what do you think of that--for I really suppose you wrote
it?"

"Think of it? Why, I think it is good. I think it is sense. I have
no doubt that every year millions and millions of bushels of
turnips are spoiled in this township alone by being pulled in a
half-ripe condition, when, if they had sent a boy up to shake the
tree--"

"Shake your grandmother! Turnips don't grow on trees!"

"Oh, they don't, don't they! Well, who said they did? The language
was intended to be figurative, wholly figurative. Anybody that
knows anything will know that I meant that the boy should shake the
vine."

Then this old person got up and tore his paper all into small
shreds, and stamped on them, and broke several things with his
cane, and said I did not know as much as a cow; and then went out
and banged the door after him, and, in short, acted in such a way
that I fancied he was displeased about something. But not knowing
what the trouble was, I could not be any help to him.

Pretty soon after this a long cadaverous creature, with lanky
locks hanging down to his shoulders, and a week's stubble bristling
from the hills and valleys of his face, darted within the door, and
halted, motionless, with finger on lip, and head and body bent in
listening attitude. No sound was heard. Still he listened. No
sound. Then he turned the key in the door, and came elaborately
tiptoeing towards me till he was within long reaching distance of
me, when he stopped and, after scanning my face with intense
interest for a while, drew a folded copy of our paper from his
bosom, and said:

"There, you wrote that. Read it to me--quick! Relieve me. I
suffer."

[Illustration: "A LONG CADAVEROUS CREATURE"]

I read as follows; and as the sentences fell from my lips I could see
the relief come, I could see the drawn muscles relax, and the anxiety
go out of the face, and rest and peace steal over the features like
the merciful moonlight over a desolate landscape:

  "The guano is a fine bird, but great care is necessary in rearing
  it. It should not be imported earlier than June or later than
  September. In the winter it should be kept in a warm place, where
  it can hatch out its young.

  "It is evident that we are to have a backward season for grain.
  Therefore it will be well for the farmer to begin setting out his
  corn-stalks and planting his buckwheat-cakes in July instead of
  August.

  "Concerning the pumpkin.--This berry is a favorite with the
  natives of the interior of New England, who prefer it to the
  gooseberry for the making of fruit-cake, and who likewise give it
  the preference over the raspberry for feeding cows, as being more
  filling and fully as satisfying. The pumpkin is the only esculent
  of the orange family that will thrive in the North, except the
  gourd and one or two varieties of the squash. But the custom of
  planting it in the front yard with the shrubbery is fast going
  out of vogue, for it is now generally conceded that the pumpkin
  as a shade tree is a failure.

  "Now, as the warm weather approaches, and the ganders begin to
  spawn"--

The excited listener sprang towards me to shake hands, and said:

"There, there--that will do. I know I am all right now, because
you have read it just as I did, word for word. But, stranger, when
I first read it this morning, I said to myself, I never, never
believed it before, notwithstanding my friends kept me under watch
so strict, but now I believe I _am_ crazy; and with that I fetched
a howl that you might have heard two miles, and started out to kill
somebody--because, you know, I knew it would come to that sooner or
later, and so I might as well begin. I read one of them paragraphs
over again, so as to be certain, and then I burned my house down
and started. I have crippled several people, and have got one
fellow up a tree, where I can get him if I want him. But I thought
I would call in here as I passed along and make the thing perfectly
certain; and now it _is_ certain, and I tell you it is lucky for
the chap that is in the tree. I should have killed him sure, as I
went back. Good-bye, sir, good-bye; you have taken a great load off
my mind. My reason has stood the strain of one of your agricultural
articles, and I know that nothing can ever unseat it now.
_Good_-bye, sir."

I felt a little uncomfortable about the cripplings and arsons this
person had been entertaining himself with, for I could not help
feeling remotely accessory to them. But these thoughts were quickly
banished, for the regular editor walked in! [I thought to myself,
Now if you had gone to Egypt, as I recommended you to, I might have
had a chance to get my hand in; but you wouldn't do it, and here
you are. I sort of expected you.]

The editor was looking sad and perplexed and dejected.

He surveyed the wreck which that old rioter and these two young
farmers had made, and then said: "This is a sad business--a very
sad business. There is the mucilage-bottle broken, and six panes of
glass, and a spittoon, and two candlesticks. But that is not the
worst. The reputation of the paper is injured--and permanently, I
fear. True, there never was such a call for the paper before, and
it never sold such a large edition or soared to such celebrity; but
does one want to be famous for lunacy, and prosper upon the
infirmities of his mind? My friend, as I am an honest man, the
street out here is full of people, and others are roosting on the
fences, waiting to get a glimpse of you, because they think you are
crazy. And well they might after reading your editorials. They are
a disgrace to journalism. Why, what put it into your head that you
could edit a paper of this nature? You do not seem to know the first
rudiments of agriculture. You speak of a furrow and a harrow as being
the same thing; you talk of the moulting season for cows; and you
recommend the domestication of the polecat on account of its
playfulness and its excellence as a ratter! Your remark that clams
will lie quiet if music be played to them was superfluous--entirely
superfluous. Nothing disturbs clams. Clams _always_ lie quiet. Clams
care nothing whatever about music. Ah, heavens and earth, friend! if
you had made the acquiring of ignorance the study of your life, you
could not have graduated with higher honor than you could to-day. I
never saw anything like it. Your observation that the horse-chestnut
as an article of commerce is steadily gaining in favor, is simply
calculated to destroy this journal. I want you to throw up your
situation and go. I want no more holiday--I could not enjoy it if I
had it. Certainly not with you in my chair. I would always stand in
dread of what you might be going to recommend next. It makes me lose
all patience every time I think of your discussing oyster-beds under
the head of 'Landscape Gardening.' I want you to go. Nothing on earth
could persuade me to take another holiday. Oh! why didn't you _tell_
me you didn't know anything about agriculture?"

"_Tell_ you, you cornstalk, you cabbage, you son of a
cauliflower? It's the first time I ever heard such an unfeeling
remark. I tell you I have been in the editorial business going on
fourteen years, and it is the first time I ever heard of a man's
having to know anything in order to edit a newspaper. You turnip!
Who write the dramatic critiques for the second-rate papers? Why, a
parcel of promoted shoemakers and apprentice apothecaries, who know
just as much about good acting as I do about good farming and no
more. Who review the books? People who never wrote one. Who do up
the heavy leaders on finance? Parties who have had the largest
opportunities for knowing nothing about it. Who criticise the
Indian campaigns? Gentlemen who do not know a warwhoop from a
wigwam, and who never have had to run a foot-race with a tomahawk,
or pluck arrows out of the several members of their families to
build the evening campfire with. Who write the temperance appeals,
and clamor about the flowing bowl? Folks who will never draw
another sober breath till they do it in the grave. Who edit the
agricultural papers, you--yam? Men, as a general thing, who fail in
the poetry line, yellow-colored novel line, sensation-drama line,
city-editor line, and finally fall back on agriculture as a
temporary reprieve from the poor-house. _You_ try to tell _me_
anything about the newspaper business! Sir, I have been through it
from Alpha to Omaha, and I tell you that the less a man knows the
bigger the noise he makes and the higher the salary he commands.
Heaven knows if I had but been ignorant instead of cultivated, and
impudent instead of diffident, I could have made a name for myself
in this cold selfish world. I take my leave, sir. Since I have been
treated as you have treated me, I am perfectly willing to go. But I
have done my duty. I have fulfilled my contract as far as I was
permitted to do it. I said I could make your paper of interest to
all classes--and I have. I said I could run your circulation up to
twenty thousand copies, and if I had had two more weeks I'd have
done it. And I'd have given you the best class of readers that ever
an agricultural paper had--not a farmer in it, nor a solitary
individual who could tell a watermelon-tree from a peach-vine to
save his life. _You_ are the loser by this rupture, not me,
Pie-plant. Adios."

I then left.


The Killing of Julius Cæsar "Localized"

    _Being the only true and reliable account ever published; taken from
    the "Roman Daily Evening Fasces," of the date of that tremendous
    occurrence._


Nothing in the world affords a newspaper reporter so much
satisfaction as gathering up the details of a bloody and mysterious
murder, and writing them up with aggravating circumstantiality. He
takes a living delight in this labor of love--for such it is to
him, especially if he knows that all the other papers have gone to
press, and his will be the only one that will contain the dreadful
intelligence. A feeling of regret has often come over me that I was
not reporting in Rome when Cæsar was killed--reporting on an
evening paper, and the only one in the city, and getting at least
twelve hours ahead of the morning-paper boys with this most
magnificent "item" that ever fell to the lot of the craft. Other
events have happened as startling as this, but none that possessed
so peculiarly all the characteristics of the favorite "item" of the
present day, magnified into grandeur and sublimity by the high
rank, fame, and social and political standing of the actors in it.

However, as I was not permitted to report Cæsar's assassination in
the regular way, it has at least afforded me rare satisfaction to
translate the following able account of it from the original Latin
of the _Roman Daily Evening Fasces_ of that date--second edition.

  "Our usually quiet city of Rome was thrown into a state of wild
  excitement yesterday by the occurrence of one of those bloody
  affrays which sicken the heart and fill the soul with fear, while
  they inspire all thinking men with forebodings for the future of
  a city where human life is held so cheaply, and the gravest laws
  are so openly set at defiance. As the result of that affray, it
  is our painful duty, as public journalists, to record the death
  of one of our most esteemed citizens--a man whose name is known
  wherever this paper circulates, and whose fame it has been our
  pleasure and our privilege to extend, and also to protect from
  the tongue of slander and falsehood, to the best of our poor
  ability. We refer to Mr. J. Cæsar, the Emperor-elect.

  "The facts of the case, as nearly as our reporter could
  determine them from the conflicting statements of eyewitnesses,
  were about as follows:--The affair was an election row, of
  course. Nine-tenths of the ghastly butcheries that disgrace the
  city nowadays grow out of the bickerings and jealousies and
  animosities engendered by these accursed elections. Rome would be
  the gainer by it if her very constables were elected to serve a
  century; for in our experience we have never even been able to
  choose a dog-pelter without celebrating the event with a dozen
  knockdowns and a general cramming of the station-house with
  drunken vagabonds overnight. It is said that when the immense
  majority for Cæsar at the polls in the market was declared the
  other day, and the crown was offered to that gentleman, even his
  amazing unselfishness in refusing it three times was not
  sufficient to save him from the whispered insults of such men as
  Casca, of the Tenth Ward, and other hirelings of the disappointed
  candidate, hailing mostly from the Eleventh and Thirteenth and
  other outside districts, who were overheard speaking ironically
  and contemptuously of Mr. Cæsar's conduct upon that occasion.

  "We are further informed that there are many among us who think
  they are justified in believing that the assassination of Julius
  Cæsar was a put-up thing--a cut-and-dried arrangement, hatched by
  Marcus Brutus and a lot of his hired roughs, and carried out only
  too faithfully according to the programme. Whether there be good
  grounds for this suspicion or not, we leave to the people to
  judge for themselves, only asking that they will read the
  following account of the sad occurrence carefully and
  dispassionately before they render that judgment.

  "The Senate was already in session, and Cæsar was coming down
  the street towards the Capitol, conversing with some personal
  friends, and followed, as usual, by a large number of citizens.
  Just as he was passing in front of Demosthenes & Thucydides'
  drug-store, he was observing casually to a gentleman, who, our
  informant thinks, is a fortune-teller, that the Ides of March
  were come. The reply was, 'Yes, they are come, but not gone yet.'
  At this moment Artemidorus stepped up and passed the time of day,
  and asked Cæsar to read a schedule or a tract or something of the
  kind, which he had brought for his perusal. Mr. Decius Brutus
  also said something about an 'humble suit' which _he_ wanted
  read. Artemidorus begged that attention might be paid to his
  first, because it was of personal consequence to Cæsar. The
  latter replied that what concerned himself should be read last,
  or words to that effect. Artemidorus begged and beseeched him to
  read the paper instantly.[1] However, Cæsar shook him off, and
  refused to read any petition in the street. He then entered the
  Capitol, and the crowd followed him.

  "About this time the following conversation was overheard, and we
  consider that, taken in connection with the events which
  succeeded it, it bears an appalling significance: Mr. Papilius
  Lena remarked to George W. Cassius (commonly known as the 'Nobby
  Boy of the Third Ward'), a bruiser in the pay of the Opposition,
  that he hoped his enterprise to-day might thrive; and when
  Cassius asked, 'What enterprise?' he only closed his left eye
  temporarily and said with simulated indifference, 'Fare you
  well,' and sauntered towards Cæsar. Marcus Brutus, who is
  suspected of being the ringleader of the band that killed Cæsar,
  asked what it was that Lena had said. Cassius told him, and
  added, in a low tone, '_I fear our purpose is discovered._'

  "Brutus told his wretched accomplice to keep an eye on Lena,
  and a moment after Cassius urged that lean and hungry vagrant,
  Casca, whose reputation here is none of the best, to be sudden
  for _he feared prevention_. He then turned to Brutus, apparently
  much excited, and asked what should be done, and swore that
  either he or Cæsar _should never turn back_--he would kill
  himself first. At this time Cæsar was talking to some of the
  back-country members about the approaching fall elections, and
  paying little attention to what was going on around him. Billy
  Trebonius got into conversation with the people's friend and
  Cæsar's--Mark Antony--and under some pretence or other got him
  away, and Brutus, Decius, Casca, Cinna, Metellus Cimber, and
  others of the gang of infamous desperadoes that infest Rome at
  present, closed around the doomed Cæsar. Then Metellus Cimber
  knelt down and begged that his brother might be recalled from
  banishment, but Cæsar rebuked him for his fawning conduct, and
  refused to grant his petition. Immediately, at Cimber's request,
  first Brutus and then Cassius begged for the return of the
  banished Publius; but Cæsar still refused. He said he could not
  be moved; that he was as fixed as the North Star, and proceeded
  to speak in the most complimentary terms of the firmness of that
  star and its steady character. Then he said he was like it, and
  he believed he was the only man in the country that was;
  therefore, since he was 'constant' that Cimber should be
  banished, he was also 'constant' that he should stay banished,
  and he'd be hanged if he didn't keep him so!

  "Instantly seizing upon this shallow pretext for a fight,
  Casca sprang at Cæsar and struck him with a dirk. Cæsar grabbing
  him by the arm with his right hand, and launching a blow straight
  from the shoulder with his left that sent the reptile bleeding to
  the earth. He then backed up against Pompey's statue, and squared
  himself to receive his assailants. Cassius and Cimber and Cinna
  rushed upon him with their daggers drawn, and the former
  succeeded in inflicting a wound upon his body; but before he
  could strike again, and before either of the others could strike
  at all, Cæsar stretched the three miscreants at his feet with as
  many blows of his powerful fist. By this time the Senate was in
  an indescribable uproar; the throng of citizens in the lobbies
  had blockaded the doors in their frantic efforts to escape from
  the building, the sergeant-at-arms and his assistants were
  struggling with the assassins, venerable senators had cast aside
  their encumbering robes, and were leaping over benches and flying
  down the aisles in wild confusion towards the shelter of the
  committee-rooms, and a thousand voices were shouting 'Po-lice!
  Po-lice!' in discordant tones that rose above the frightful din
  like shrieking winds above the roaring of a tempest. And amid it
  all, great Cæsar stood with his back against the statue, like a
  lion at bay, and fought his assailants weaponless and hand to
  hand, with the defiant bearing and the unwavering courage which
  he had shown before on many a bloody field. Billy Trebonius and
  Caius Legarius struck him with their daggers and fell, as their
  brother-conspirators before them had fallen. But at last, when
  Cæsar saw his old friend Brutus step forward armed with a
  murderous knife, it is said he seemed utterly overpowered with
  grief and amazement, and dropping his invincible left arm by his
  side, he hid his face in the folds of his mantle and received the
  treacherous blow without an effort to stay the hand that gave it.
  He only said, '_Et tu, Brute?_' and fell lifeless on the marble
  pavement.

  "We learn that the coat deceased had on when he was killed was
  the same one he wore in his tent on the afternoon of the day he
  overcame the Nervii, and that when it was removed from the corpse
  it was found to be cut and gashed in no less than seven different
  places. There was nothing in the pockets. It will be exhibited at
  the coroner's inquest, and will be damning proof of the fact of
  the killing. These latter facts may be relied on, as we get them
  from Mark Antony, whose position enables him to learn every item
  of news connected with the one subject of absorbing interest of
  to-day.

  [Illustration: "THERE WAS NOTHING IN THE POCKETS"]

  "LATER.--While the coroner was summoning a jury, Mark Antony and
  other friends of the late Cæsar got hold of the body, and lugged
  it off to the Forum, and at last accounts Antony and Brutus were
  making speeches over it and raising such a row among the people
  that, as we go to press, the chief of police is satisfied there
  is going to be a riot, and is taking measures accordingly."


[Footnote 1: Mark that: It is hinted by William Shakespeare, who
saw the beginning and the end of the unfortunate affray, that this
"schedule" was simply a note discovering to Cæsar that a plot was
brewing to take his life.]




THE END