We told you in a recent number about the unsuccessful result of the
attempt to land an expedition in Cuba; this result was largely due, no
doubt, to the fact that the Spaniards were advised in advance, through
Spanish spies in this country, of the intended departure of the
expedition. On May 31st, the steamer _Florida_ returned to Key West,
after having successfully landed an important expedition on the island.
This time they succeeded in taking their departure without it being
known to any one. The expedition, consisting of about four hundred men,
with a pack-train and a large quantity of arms and ammunition, sailed
for Guantanamo on the night of May 21st. The expedition was under
command of Colonel Lacret, with whom was Captain J. A. Dorst, of the
United States army. The men were equipped with canvas uniforms furnished
by the Government, and had rations sufficient for fifteen days after
landing; the pack-train consisted of seventy-five mules and twenty-five
horses; the expedition landed on the coast of Cuba, Thursday morning,
May 26th. The _Florida_, escorted by the gunboat _Osceola_, drew up
close to the shore, and first landed scouts to ascertain if all was
clear; these scouts were met by a band of 1,500 insurgents, under
Captains Vereira and Rojas. There was absolutely no interruption to the
unloading of the _Florida_, as no sign of a Spaniard was seen. This is
the largest expedition which has ever been landed in Cuba in aid of the
insurgents.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a very interesting account of the origin of the Red Cross
Society in _The Churchman_. About forty years ago, M. Henry Dimont, a
native of Switzerland, having witnessed the unnecessary suffering of the
wounded, from lack of care, at the battle of Solferino, was so much
impressed that he published a book, pointing out the necessity of
forming a corporation of nurses to work in the cause of humanity in time
of war, regardless of nationality of the injured, and who should be
permitted to aid the wounded on the battle-field, under the protection
of a flag which should be recognized as neutral.

So much interest was taken in the idea that the outcome was a convention
held at Geneva in 1864, which was attended by representatives from
sixteen of the great nations of the world, who signed an agreement that
they would protect members of the association when caring for the
wounded on the field of battle. The society adopted for its colors the
Swiss cross, as a compliment to its birthplace; they, however, reversed
the colors, and the flag is therefore a red cross on a white field, and
is the only military hospital flag of civilized warfare; it protects
persons from molestation who work under the emblem performing services
in aid of the wounded. Great care is used in granting permission to
persons to wear this emblem; and in order that it shall not be taken
advantage of to spy in the enemies' camp, private marks are added to
prevent imitation. The headquarters of the International Committee is at
Geneva; the president of the society is M. Gustav Moynier.

In 1882, Miss Clara Barton was delegated by the President of the United
States to represent this country at the Congress of the Red Cross
Committee, and was made a member of the International Board of Managers
when the United States signed the international treaty.

It was decided that the work of the Red Cross Society should not be
confined to times of war, but that in case of disasters and calamities,
which were always to be apprehended, the organization was to provide
aid. During the past seventeen years the American Red Cross Society has
served in fifteen disasters and famines, and Russians, Armenians, and
Cubans have received aid from this society.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friday, June 3d, Samuel Plimsoll, known as the "sailors' friend," died
in England. Plimsoll was the originator of the famous "Plimsoll mark,"
and this is what caused him to be called the sailors' friend. Many
years ago it was the custom of unprincipled ship-owners to send their
vessels to sea very much overloaded; this was done to save the expense
of a double voyage, for in those days there were few steam merchantmen,
and sailing-vessels oftentimes took months for their voyages. The
Plimsoll mark is painted on the vessel to indicate how much cargo she
should carry. When a vessel has her full cargo the Plimsoll mark is at
the water-line; laws were passed making it illegal to load vessels so
deeply as to sink this mark below the surface of the water, and in
consequence sailors' lives are not risked in overloaded vessels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some very interesting questions have arisen in reference to the
difference of time between Manila and New York. The difference between
Manila and New York is about eleven hours; when it is five in the
morning in Manila, it is four in the afternoon with us. In order to
change Manila time to our time we must deduct about eleven hours. This
is all very simple so far as hours are concerned; but when we try to
find out what day it is we run against a more complicated matter, for
there is a certain place, or rather a certain mysterious line, which the
great nations have agreed upon as the international date line. This date
line is supposed to be the 180th meridian longitude reckoning from
Greenwich; but this meridian is not actually followed, for in the case
of the Philippine Islands it takes a long sweep, and passes to the west
of them, and, in consequence, there is a difference of nearly a whole
day between Manila and Hong-Kong, although the actual difference of time
is but about half an hour. This difference causes all kinds of
complications there, in that Hong-Kong and Manila are so near each
other. A telegram dated at Hong-Kong, say, the 1st of May at one
o'clock, will reach us April 30th; if sent direct to Manila it would
reach there apparently nearly twenty-four hours before it was sent, for
when it is Monday in Manila it is Tuesday in Hong-Kong. This will
account for the receipt of the despatch in reference to Commodore
Dewey's victory dated Hong-Kong, May 2d, stating that the bombardment
was then taking place, whereas it was really Sunday, May 1st, in Manila.
The necessity for having an international date line can best be
understood if you will imagine yourself travelling around the world in
some sort of a conveyance which enables you to keep pace with the sun;
say, for instance, your start is on a Monday, with the sun directly over
your head. If it were not for the international date line it would
always be Monday to you; instead of this, each time that you cross the
180th meridian the day changes.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: A NATIVE OF THE PHILIPPINES.]

A report has been received from Hong-Kong that the insurgent chief
Aguinaldo, at the Philippines, has issued a proclamation that would seem
to show that he hopes to make himself leader or dictator over the
island. The report goes on to say that he has issued orders that the
lives and property of Europeans and all Spanish non-combatants are to be
protected. It is said that his treatment of the captives has been very
fair, and that he is conducting the campaign against Spain in a very
able manner. Since he has taken charge of affairs the Spanish soldiers
have lost battle after battle, and it is said that there are now in
Aguinaldo's hands over two thousand prisoners, including many officers.
Aguinaldo reports that the Governor of Cavite (cä-v[=e]-t[=a]) has
surrendered to him. One of the American captains has written to
Hong-Kong, stating that it is his opinion "that the rebels have
undergone a radical change since the arrival of Aguinaldo; the Spaniards
have lost every engagement, and if our people do not hurry, there will
be no Spanish army left."

The American vessels have taken no part in the fight between Spain and
the insurgents; Admiral Dewey has contented himself with superintending
and insisting upon proper conduct of affairs. The news he sends is
exceedingly cheerful, and he seems to be quite confident that he can
hold out until reinforcements arrive; he anticipates no trouble in
capturing the city of Manila.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Carranza's missing letter has been found. You will remember
we told in our last number of the arrest of a Montreal detective who had
been arrested and accused of stealing it. It was not taken by the
Montreal detective, but by a secret service officer of our Government.
It seems that the Spanish officials at Montreal have been very carefully
watched for some time, for it was known that they were spying upon our
Government. The detectives had followed Minister Polo and his staff ever
since they left Washington, and had secured absolute proof that Du Bosc
and Carranza were collecting information and forwarding it to the
Spanish Government. On the pretext of purchasing the house, they were
shown all over it, and succeeded in securing a number of important
letters, cablegrams, maps, etc., which were forwarded to the Government.
The letter which Carranza has made so much fuss about was stolen in a
very clever way. The detective took a sheet of fly paper, and in a
careless way dropped it over the letter; then took up the fly paper and
the letter attached to it, and passed it to another detective, who at
once forwarded it to Washington. Part of the letter has been published.
It is addressed to his Excellency Don Jose Gomez Imay. In it Carranza
expresses his regret that Imay was not appointed to command the Cadiz
fleet; he speaks disparagingly of Camara and highly of Cervera; most of
this part of the letter is in reference to his personal employment by
the Government, and he expresses great anxiety to be away to the front
and in active service on the fleet.

Speaking of his spy system, he says: "We have had bad luck because they
have captured our two best spies. The Americans are showing the most
extraordinary vigilance. I shall be extremely gratified to have a ship
or a torpedo-boat to run the blockade, or anything rather than playing
second fiddle." These quotations go to show that Carranza was not
over-pleased with the work of conducting the spy department in Canada.
He takes the trouble to criticize Cervera's actions, and he alludes to
him as "Don Pasquale," and says that he cannot believe that the Admiral
would do such a stupid thing as to get caught in Santiago, his purpose
being to attack the American fleet and delay the invasion of Cuba. This
letter demonstrates very clearly the wisdom of the Government in keeping
carefully guarded all knowledge of the movements of our army and navy,
for Carranza has taken advantage of the statements published and
information easily obtained heretofore, and has kept his Government
informed, and has also personally been advising Admiral Cervera whenever
opportunity offered: he speaks of having cabled to Cervera on 20th of
May. Our Government has made application to the English Government for
the expulsion of the Spanish spies from British territory.

Kellert, the Montreal detective, has caused the arrest of both Du Bosc
and Carranza, in a civil suit for damages for false imprisonment; so the
Spaniards are in hotter water than ever, especially as all of their
money in the Bank of Montreal has been seized as security.

       *       *       *       *       *

A very interesting account of life in Skaguay, Alaska, has recently been
received. The account is written by a Wisconsin woman who, with her
husband, went to Alaska to open a restaurant and hotel in Skaguay. She
writes: "I never felt so lonesome in my life; I never worked so hard,
but have never been so happy; money comes in so fast that we do not know
what to do with it. At first, when there was no bank, we were obliged to
hide the money in all parts of the house, and we were in constant
terror. We had paper money, silver money, gold money, gold dust, and
every form of currency that can be imagined hidden all over the house;
and as the town was full of people who were without money, and who would
not hesitate to cut one's throat for a dollar, we did not have a single
moment free from anxiety. Early in the winter we did succeed in sending
a number of thousands of dollars to Seattle, and were very much relieved
when we received a receipt from the bank.

"The transportation companies are swindlers. They are persuading
thousands of people to come to this awful country who will never be able
to go back, and all for the sake of making the profit on
transportation.

[Illustration]

"Flour that we had shipped from Seattle, and which cost over $5 per
barrel, cost as much more for freight to this place. But as we sold it
for over $40 a barrel before it left the dock, we had nothing to
complain of; and it was very poor flour at that, not fit for bread, and
hardly suitable for the plainest kind of cooking.

"As for our restaurant, we started it with the idea of giving people
good home cooking, and we can hardly serve the people, they come so
fast. The restaurant is open day and night, and the tables always full.
At first we got a good price for our meals, that is, from $1.50 to $2.50
for a dinner. But there is more competition now, and prices have gone
down.

"The town is still filled with gamblers, and is a mining town in every
sense of the word, although the troops keep the rough element in fairly
good order. The town is particularly lonely for refined women, as there
are very few here, and very little in the way of amusement for them.

"It is not so very cold. I have seen as severe weather in the States;
and the thermometer rarely goes below 15 degrees below zero, and that is
not so bad. But there is very little sun, and this we miss the most. We
work by lamplight day and night.

"Whatever people may say about the Klondike, there is still plenty of
gold there; and although we are making a barrelful of money here at this
business, we will very probably 'up stakes' and go to the diggings.
Every boat that arrives is loaded with gold-hunters, and Skaguay is
crowded. Hundreds of people are camped between here and Chilkoot Pass,
and are scattered all along the trail. This year will bring many
improvements in the line of travelling, and, in consequence, there will
be less hardship."

       *       *       *       *       *

Much interest has been awakened by the report of an interview with Señor
Moret, ex-Secretary of the Colonies of Spain. He is reported to have
said that "the Government does not know where it is going. There is no
person in Spain who can tell the outcome of the present situation. The
Government is not a fixed one, and allows matters to run in their own
course heedless of the effect; in other words, matters are allowed to
drift their own way. It is useless to conceal the fact that the Cabinet
is not solid. Its members are working at cross purposes, the ministers
lack energy, and, in fact, are absolutely incompetent, and simply trust
to chance to get out of their present troubles.

"A campaign in favor of peace has been begun, and is progressing among
the people. I am convinced that if the people were allowed to state
their wishes, even the soldiers would advocate peace.

"It is difficult to say whether the regency will be overthrown, nor can
I say what will happen to a country that is without guidance and with a
foreign war on its hands. If the regency is overthrown it will be an
immense misfortune to Spain. The affairs of Spain are in complete
disorder."

This report comes by way of London, and would seem to confirm reports
previously published as to the condition of matters in Spain.

       *       *       *       *       *

A bill for the removal of all political disabilities arising from the
Civil War, recently presented in Congress, has passed and is now a law,
as President McKinley has formally approved it. This bill refers to
Section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.

This amendment made it impossible for any person to hold a political
position in the United States who had taken up arms against the
Government, if he had previously held a political position and had
declared his allegiance to the United States. The law that has just been
passed declares that "disabilities imposed by Section 3, Amendment 14,
of the Constitution, heretofore incurred, are hereby removed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the survivors of the terrible massacre at Sierra Leone reached
New York during the past week. The story of their escape is a very
thrilling one. It seems that among the natives in that part of Africa
there is a secret society. When the natives feel that they have any
grievance against a particular tribe or people, they send word to all
members of the society that "pura" is declared against the offenders;
this means that they are condemned to death.

As a result of the hut tax, which we told you about in a recent number,
"pura" was declared against all English people in Africa. News soon
reached the different missionary stations that this had been done; but
the attack on the Rotufunk mission came almost without warning. Mr.
Ward, who is the only one of these missionaries left alive, went in the
latter part of April to Freetown for supplies, and at that time there
was not any sign of danger. Through natives the story of the massacre
has been obtained. It seems that early on the morning of May 3d native
women came running to the mission house and cried that an armed force
was coming to capture the place. The missionaries had no means of
defence; their only hope of safety was in flight; but, unfortunately,
they were too late. When the tribesmen arrived and found that the whites
had left, they started through the bush, and soon captured all of the
unfortunate missionaries. The tortures to which they put these poor men
and women are too terrible to repeat. Death put a welcome end to their
sufferings.

[Illustration: GOVERNMENT HOUSE AT BONTHE ON SHERBO ISLAND, SIERRA
LEONE]

In the mean time, the colony of Americans at Shengeh received news that
the natives had rebelled. A friendly native visited the mission and told
Dr. Burtner that the tribes had declared "pura" against this mission,
and that he had better fly. Immediately the work of getting boats in
readiness was begun, and the missionaries, together with the friendly
natives, finally succeeded in reaching Freetown.

Miss Mullins, whose station was at Momliga, where she was the only white
person, had a very narrow escape. April 29th, a band of natives came
there shouting and singing. Miss Mullins ran to the river in the hope of
finding a boat in which she could escape. The boats had all been taken
by the natives, who had either fled or gone to join the war tribes.
Knowing that there was no chance of her hiding in the bush, the brave
girl decided that if she was to die she would die at her post.

She turned back from the river into the clearing, where the
superstitious natives stood aside to let her pass. One of them seized
her as she was passing, and asked her what she was going to do. She
said: "I am going inside; I cannot escape you, you are too many for me.
Leave me to myself for a short time." The man brandished a spear in her
face, and said: "See, that is the blood of your friends; yours will soon
cover it." But she did not falter, and the savages probably left her
untouched for this reason. They are very superstitious, and must have
thought that there was something supernatural about her. Shortly after
this she heard the tramp of feet outside, and an English voice calling
to ask if there was anybody inside; running out, she found that the
British commissioner and a large force had arrived. And with them she
made her escape.

When the Americans arrived at Freetown, a large force of volunteers had
been concentrated, and it is hoped that the uprising will soon be at an
end.

       *       *       *       *       *

          In our previous number we mentioned the name of
          one of the missionaries killed at the massacre as
          "Kane"; it should have been "Cain."

       *       *       *       *       *

One of our subscribers has asked why the flag of Hawaii has eight
stripes and three crosses. There is a very interesting story told in
reference to this peculiar flag. It seems that about twenty-five years
ago, when the country was still a monarchy, it was quite frequently
visited by war-ships of different nations. It is said that one morning
the King discovered a French war-ship anchored safely in the harbor of
Honolulu, and fearing that the French were there for purpose of seizing
the island, sent for his Prime Minister, who advised him to raise a
flag, and in this way advise the visitors that the islands belonged to
some one. But the island did not possess a flag of its own; the only one
the King could find at first was an old British flag. This he had run up
to the top of the highest flag-pole. The flag had hardly been raised,
when one of his chief advisers came running to him, and told him he must
take the flag down immediately, for a British man-of-war was expected,
and would be sure to claim ownership of the islands if the British flag
was seen flying over the palace. So the King started on another flag
hunt. This time he found an American flag, and, with great ingenuity,
took the two flags, cut them up, and made a combination. Therefore the
first Hawaiian flag had thirteen red and white stripes, and the English
jack in the corner. Later, it was decided that eight stripes, to
represent the eight islands of the nation, would be more appropriate;
therefore the extra stripes were cut off, and now the flag has eight
stripes, four red and four white, and still carries the St. George's,
St. Andrew's, and St. Patrick's crosses, the same as the English flag.

The superstitious natives believe that the ascendency of the white
people over the colored is due to the fact that the white stripe was
left uppermost on the flag. They have frequently tried to have the flag
changed for this reason, for they believe that, if the red is given
prominence, the natives will again have the ascendency.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morning of June 8th, the first definite confirmation of the news
of an engagement off Santiago was published. The vessels which are
reported to have taken part in the engagement were the _Brooklyn_,
_Marblehead_, _Texas_, and _Massachusetts_ forming the first division;
the _New York_, _New Orleans_, _Yankee_, _Iowa_, and _Oregon_ the second
division. Very early on the morning of the 6th, they steamed in toward
the entrance of the harbor in double column, the first division to the
left, the second to the right, the vessels being in the order named
above. When about three thousand yards off shore the first division
turned toward the west and the second division toward the east; the
little vessels _Vixen_ and _Swanee_ remaining far out on the left of the
first division to watch the riflemen on shore, and the _Dolphin_ and
_Porter_ occupying similar positions on the right for the same purpose.
The fight was started by a 12-inch shell from the _Iowa_, which struck
the base of the Estrella battery and tore up the works. This was a
signal for all of the vessels to begin firing, and from that time until
the firing ceased the bombardment was terrific. The vessels had run up
in the beginning at the point where the range of the forts and batteries
was known, and, in consequence, although the smoke hung so thickly
about the ships that the forts could not be seen, the shots were very
effective. The vessels of the first division had been instructed to
concentrate their fire at the fortifications at the left or west side of
the entrance to the harbor; those of the second division attacking Morro
Castle and fortifications to the right, and the Spanish vessels in the
harbor which were within range. The Spanish gunners on shore replied
promptly, but their marksmanship was of no better quality than in
previous engagements, and it is reported that practically no damage was
done to our fleet. It is reported that one Spanish shell struck the
military mast of the _Massachusetts_, but nobody was hurt. One man on
the _Swanee_ was slightly wounded, and it is said that he is the only
one who was hurt on our side. As the bombardment proceeded, Commodore
Schley's ships moved nearer to the shore, and the effect of their fire
at such short range was tremendous: earthworks were simply blown to
pieces, and the Spanish gunners soon forced to stop firing. The Estrella
fortification, which was probably the strongest one there, was given
particular attention by Schley's column. The fort offered great
resistance, but when the vessels had moved to closer range the heavy
guns of the _Texas_ and _Marblehead_ were turned upon it. The Spanish
guns were soon silenced and the fortification set on fire. The Cayo
battery was silenced by the _New York_ and _New Orleans_ after a
terrific fire of about half an hour. Many of the American shells were
wasted for the reason that the fortified points on the shore could not
be accurately located in the thick weather. There was a heavy rain and
fog at the time, and this made marksmanship much less accurate. Shortly
after nine o'clock the firing from shore ceased, and a signal was
hoisted by Admiral Sampson to cease firing. It was then seen that the
earthworks and the Estrella and Catalina fortifications were so damaged
that it is doubtful whether the Spaniards will be able to use them
again.

[Illustration: CHART OF SANTIAGO HARBOR.]

Reports of the engagement make particular mention of the good showing
made by the naval militia on the _Yankee_. They worked like old
blue-jackets, pouring a savage fire into the enemy, and it was accurate
too. They kept close in shore and paid particular attention to the
batteries near the beach. This was their first experience under fire,
and they showed the stuff they are made of. Indeed, they proved
themselves so fond of that sort of thing, that when orders were given to
stop the engagement, there was a great deal of amusement on board the
larger vessels when it was seen that they hammered away with their stern
guns as long as they were within range; even after the order had been
signalled to cease firing, they turned slowly and reluctantly away, as
if they were sorry to leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: =Latest News=]

June 10th, "Old Glory" was raised on Cuban soil, and the welcome sight
was Deceived with rousing cheers by the marines, who had landed.

On Thursday, the 9th, orders were given to a number of the vessels to go
to Guantanamo Bay and assist in a landing there.

On Friday, under cover of the guns of the _Oregon_, _Marblehead_,
_Yankee_, _Yosemite_, _Porter_, _Dolphin_, and _Vixen_, six hundred
marines of the first battalion landed with small boats near Caimanera in
Guantanamo Bay. This place had been shelled several days before, in
order that the Spaniards should have no fortifications to aid them in
preventing this landing.

No Spaniards appeared, however, and our men had soon landed tents and
the necessary implements with which to make an encampment. The site
chosen was the hill where the blockhouse had been, as this high spot was
considered the most healthful position.

Orders were given to destroy the few houses and huts, to prevent all
possibility of catching yellow fever from any germs which might have
been lingering there. These hovels made a fine bonfire, as they were
built of light materials with thatched roofs.

The men were glad enough to get ashore, for they have been cooped on the
transports most of the time since April 22d, knocking about on the
ocean. In that hot climate it is not over-agreeable to be on ship-board,
even with ample room to move about in; but when crowded as the men on
transports are, there is no end of discomfort.

All Friday afternoon and evening the men worked away at their camp, and
were tired enough when they were ordered to turn in for the night.

Every precaution was taken to guard against a surprise, although no
attack was expected. Saturday the men continued their work, which was
getting along finely and almost completed, when late in the afternoon,
while a large number of men were hauling water up the hill, and others,
who had been working hard all day, were taking a swim in the bay, there
was suddenly heard the sharp crack of Mauser rifles, and the men knew
that the Spaniards were there.

As a matter of course, the attack came from the thick underwood
surrounding the rear of the camp, and soon the air was filled with
bullets whistling around the heads of our men.

As soon as the shots were heard the men came running to aid their
comrades. Many of them who had been swimming grabbed up their rifles and
cartridge-belts, and began firing, without waiting to dress.

With great coolness the men were formed and soon repulsed the Spanish
force. Firing was kept up until midnight. In the darkness the Spaniards
became bolder and attacked the camp, the white tents making a good mark.
If their marksmanship had been better, our losses must have been
serious. As it was, however, but four men were killed--Assistant Surgeon
J. B. Gibbs, Sergeant C. H. Smith, and two privates, William Dunphy and
James McColgan. During the night the vessels off shore kept their
powerful searchlights turned upon the heights, and this greatly
interfered with the Spaniards, who could not leave the woods without
exposing themselves to the fire of our men.

The first news of this, our first land encounter with the Spanish, was
published on Monday of this week.

News of the fall of Manila, received Monday, the 13th, came by way of
London from our ambassador there. But particulars were not given, and we
do not know whether the city was surrendered to the rebels or to Admiral
Dewey.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECTED LIST OF NEW BOOKS

       *       *       *       *       *

=FRENCH= =WITHOUT A MASTER.
          ENTIRELY NEW=

          =Pitman's Practical French Grammar=

=and Conversation for Self-Instruction.= The latest and most successful
method for learning and teaching HOW TO SPEAK FRENCH, with IMITATED
PRONUNCIATION and copious VOCABULARIES. =Price, paper boards, 40 cents;
cloth, 50 cents, postpaid.=

          "A book of great value to those who would master
          French without a teacher."--Prof. J. H. GROVE,
          A.M., Pres. Howard Payne College, Brownwood, Tex.
          ADDRESS

=ISAAC PITMAN & SONS, THE PHONOGRAPHIC DEPOT, 33 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK=

  _Take Lessons at Metropolitan Shorthand School, 170 Fifth Avenue._

       *       *       *       *       *

The Educational Courier

          W. I. THAMES, Editor

         Is the oldest School Journal published in
         Mississippi. Devoted to the general cause of
         education. Keeps in close touch with educational
         matters in MISSISSIPPI. Publishes STATE BOARD
         QUESTIONS and educational news from everywhere. A
         splendid ADVERTISING MEDIUM. Subscription Fifty
         Cents per Annum. Advertising rate card sent on
         application. . . . . . THE EDUCATIONAL COURIER
                                Poplarville, Miss.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Great Round World REFERENCE ATLAS=

New maps by W. & A. K. JOHNSTON, Edinburgh, Scotland. Specially adapted
for ready reference, and invaluable in tracing geographically the
current of events. Sent postpaid upon receipt of 25 cts. Address

   =THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUB. CO., 5 West 18th Street, New York City=

       *       *       *       *       *

  BOUND
  VOLUMES

  =THE GREAT ROUND WORLD=
         is bound four parts to the year. Part V.,
         containing January 1 to March 31 (13 numbers) is
         now ready :: ::

Numbers in good condition may be exchanged for bound parts on payment of
35 cents for binding and 10 cents for return carriage.

=Price of Bound Part, $1.00.= May be had in Red, Blue, or Green Binding.

_=THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUB. CO., 5 West 18th St., New York City.=_

       *       *       *       *       *

=Patriotic Songs=

          =Words and Music=
          =10 Cents a Copy=

JUST READY


_ADDRESS:_

          THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
               5 West 18th Street, New York

       *       *       *       *       *

.CLUB RATES.

"The Great Round World"

       *       *       *       *       *

          _Subscription
          Price..
          52 numbers.._

          $1.50

          _per year_

          _Address_

          _The Great
          Round World
          Publishing Co._

          _3 and 5 West
          18th Street

          New York City_

