The following letters were yesterday discovered among the private papers
of the late Emperor--L.N. BONAPARTE. They were instantly forwarded to
us by our special correspondent. They will be used to-morrow in a
mutilated form by less enterprising journals, such as the _Tribune_ and
its partners of the Associated Press.

"NEW YORK, May 10, 1860.

"DEAR EMPEROR: I am thinking of writing a biography of you, in the same
style as my biography of your Uncle. I shall want to prove that you were
never in New York, that you behaved with perfect propriety while you
were here, and that you are humble, unambitious, and deeply religious.
This will not be a difficult matter, after the success I have made in
the case of your Uncle. Still, I shall want a fact or two in the book.
Can you not supply me with them? Any small favor you may think fit to
send me may be directed to my usual address.

"Yours for truth and justice, J.S.C.A.B.B.O.T.T."

       *       *       *       *       *

"CLICHY PRISON.

"VILLAIN AND USURPER! Your minions have incarcerated me in this vile den
on a pretence that I owe a debt which I have not paid. They lie,
wilfully and malignantly. I always pay my debts. Ask SEWARD if I do not.
He remembers how I paid him the little debt I owed him, when I defeated
his Presidential aspirations. Release me at once, or the _Tribune_ will
show your rotten Empire no mercy. If I am at liberty this evening I will
send you a prize strawberry plant, and a copy of my work on political
economy. If I am not at liberty by the time mentioned, beware. SMALLEY
shall be sent to Paris as the _Tribune's_ special correspondent, and
you'll see the sort of news about your infamous court that he'll be
instructed to send home.

"Yours Profanely, H.G."

       *       *       *       *       *

"BERLIN, July 1, 1870.

"To THE EMPEROR OF THE FRENCH: His Majesty, the King, instructs me to
say that he shall do just as he pleases in all affairs public and
private. He advises you to attend to your own affairs, and if you have
any more propositions for stealing other people's territory, to address
them to Russia, or the United States. Prussia is not at present in that
line of business. BISMARCK."

       *       *       *       *       *

"BUREAU OF POLICE, Jan. 1, 1870.

TO HIS MAJESTY, THE EMPEROR--SIRE: I beg leave to report that M.
ROCHEFORT demands the sum of 1,000,000 francs, to be paid at once.
Otherwise be will continue to be a patriot, and will abuse Her Majesty,
the Empress, with more violence than ever. Both M. ROCHEFORT and M.
FLOURENS are much enraged since their annual stipend has been
discontinued.

PIETRI, _Chief of Police_."

Other selections from the Imperial correspondence will be shortly laid
before our readers. Remember, the only genuine letters are those in
PUNCHINELLO. All others are garbled forgeries.

       *       *       *       *       *

Roma! Roma! non e plu com' ora Prima.

With the downfall of the Pope's temporal power, comes the report that
several newspapers have been established in the Eternal City. Thus the
"great world spins forever down the ringing grooves of change." For
Papal Infallibility, the Romans will have that of the editorial WE; for
the canons of the Church Militant they will have ubiquitous reporters
discharging themselves in the public ear; the testimony of the pillars
of the Church will be replaced by the assertions of the editorial
columns; the Inquisition will become a press club-house for Reporters
and Interviewers, and the Propaganda an office where 'extras' are
concocted and forced on the unsuspecting public. At least let us hope
that the change will offer a reputable business for the army of beggars
which has formerly been licensed by the church. A chance will now be
offered them to become newspaper agents, thus making a living
respectably by selling accounts of other people's deformities, instead
of disreputably by exhibiting their own.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CAPITOL MOVE.

The immediate probability of the formation of the United States of
Europe, suggests how wise we were not to change the location of the
Capitol to some facetiously distant western metropolis of the future.
The Capitol buildings are quite large enough to receive the delegates
who will of course come on here to study the art of log-rolling, while
the Chesapeake, being navigable almost to the Capitol steps, will save
them the fatigue of a luxurious journey in the palace sleeping cars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sublunary Observations of the Sun.

From a careful analysis of the daily appearance of the _Sun_, it has
been satisfactorily settled that it is completely enveloped in gas. By
the application of the literary spectrum, it is also shown that this
gaseous vaporization is the result of brass in a high state of
incandescence, while the indications of alkalies, and, in fact, all
kinds of lies, are no less distinct.

       *       *       *       *       *

Forethought.

One reason why this country is so earnestly opposed to the Napoleonic
dynasty, is that there is no probability that the descendants of the
Prince Imperial would give us any assistance in settling the Alabama
Question.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prompt.

The Methodists recently opened a school for young ladies in Salt Lake
City, and BRIGHAM'S third son is courting it already.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERDICT ON A BARBER'S WHISKERS.--Dyed by his own hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

[Illustration: 'S']

Solemn and severe German tragedy reigns in the Fourteenth Street
theatre. Once it was called the French theatre, and was devoted to the
witty comedies of SCRIBE, and the luxurious legs of OFFENBACH. But a woe
has been denounced against the SCRIBES and OFFENBACHS--(there is
considerable difference between the latter and the Pharisees)--of that
once gay theatre. Like many other French frivolities, it has lately
yielded to Teutonic tragedy. The cold and calculating German
"MEPHISTOPHELES" treads the stage where once tripped the light feet of
Parisian beauty. The burlesque Germans of the Grand Duchy of Gerolstein
have vanished before the grim and earnest countrymen of grand and simple
old King WILLIAM. It will be long before the French players find heart
to burlesque anew the German soldiery. It will be some time, let us
hope, before the German players at the Fourteenth Street theatre give
way to the shameless antics of French Opera-Bouffe buffoons.

PUNCHINELLO gives a glad farewell--with no thought of saying _au
revoir_--to the French follies that have given the French theatre so
unenviable a reputation; and he waves his pointed hat in joyful welcome
to SEEBACH and her German friends who have made the Fourteenth Street
theatre a temple of the classic drama. Like other places which can
properly be called dramatic temples, the theatre now partakes of the
solemnity of a religious temple. One goes to see SEEBACH, not to laugh,
but to test one's ability to suppress the desire to weep over the woes
of MARGARET, and to mourn with MARY STUART. Fortify yourself, O reader,
with a substantial dinner and much previous sleep, and come with me for
a night of German tragedy. Come to the Fourteenth Street theatre, not to
look back regretfully at departed opera-bouffe, but to SEEBACH. It is
with such reckless puns as the foregoing, that I endeavor to brace your
spirits for the exhausting struggle with six hours of tragedy played in
the most tragic and awful of modern languages. You are to hear _Faust_
in German. No man who has accomplished this feat can wonder at the
stolid bravery of the German infantry. It is said that the new recruit
is forced to hear _Faust_ once a week during his first year of service.
This terrible discipline has the natural effect of giving him that
steadiness under fire, at which the world marvels. He will stand with
his regiment for hours under the merciless fire of the mitrailleuse with
no thought of flight. What terrors can shot or shell have for him who
has been taught to listen unmoved to the dialogue of "FAUST" and
"MEPHISTOPHELES" in the first thirty-two acts of _Faust_?

We find the theatre full of Germans, wearing that grave and earnest
expression of countenance wherewith the German takes his legitimate
tragedy. Sprinkled among the Germans are several Americans, more grave
and more in earnest than even their Teutonic neighbors, for they are
straining their attention to detect a familiar German word--such as
"Mein Herr," or "Ach." When once they have heard the expected syllables,
they smile a placid smile of contentment, and remark, one to another, "I
can understand pretty nearly everything that is said,--with the
exception, of course, of an occasional word."

We take our seats and wait for the entrance of SEEBACH. The curtain
rises upon "FAUST" pursuing his studies in middle-age, respectability,
and a dressing-gown. To him, after hours of soliloquy, enters
"MEPHISTOPHELES." We observe, with surprise, that those estimable
gentlemen, Col. THOMAS W. KNOX and Hon. ERASTUS BROOKS, have been
engaged to play "FAUST" and "MEPHISTOPHELES" respectively, To be sure
the programme informs us that these parts are taken by two newly
imported German actors, but we prefer the evidence of our senses to the
assertions of the programme. Have KNOX and BROOKS been copied in German?
If not, they are now playing in Fourteenth Street. Don't tell me that it
is merely an accidental resemblance. Haven't I played billiards with the
gallant COLONEL, and gone to sleep when the Honorable EDITOR was
speaking in Congress? And shall I now be told that I don't know them
when I see them? But this is irrelevant.

Hours of dialogue succeed to the previous hours of soliloquy. At
intervals of fifteen minutes the curtain is dropped to enable the actors
to discuss mugs of beer and the audience to discuss the actors. During
these intervals we hear such remarks as these:

1ST GERMAN. "Subjectively considered, _Faust_ is a tragedy. Objectively,
we might regard it as a comedy. To the subjective-objective view, it is
certainly a ballet pantomime. Ach! he was many-sided, our GOETHE. Here
in this drama he has accomplished everything. There is food for our
laughter and our tears. It excites us and calms us."

1ST AMERICAN. "I should think it did calm us. That's why the old fellow
went to sleep and snored all through the last twelve acts. I think it's
the heaviest and stupidest play that was ever put on the stage. Of
course it's the greatest thing ever written, but then I prefer DALY'S
_Gaslight_, myself."

2ND GERMAN. "Ah, my friend, how this sublime creation stirs the inner
depths of our spiritual natures. Ach, Himmel! it is the poem of
Humanity. Let us go out for beer."

2D AMERICAN. "When are we going to see SEEBACH?"

USHER. "She don't appear until the twenty-third act, sir. That will be
on about three hours from now."

2D AMERICAN. "Come, TOM, let's go and have supper. I am getting
exhausted."

USHER. "Step this way, sir. Mr. GRAU has some refreshments at your
service."

And they go in search of the cold ham and beer which the beneficent GRAU
has kindly provided. Refreshed by much beer, and enlivened by the cheery
influence of the genial sandwich, they return for a few more hours of
soliloquy and dialogue.

Time passes slowly, but surely. At last we reach an act in which SEEBACH
walks quietly across the stage. The curtain instantly drops amid the
sobs of the excited audience.

1ST GERMAN. "Lend me your handkerchief, my friend, that I may wipe away
my tears. I have a sausage wrapped up in mine, but what are sausages
compared with art! How divinely SEEBACH walks. To me, she seems like an
incarnation of Pure Reason, an Avatar of the spirit of transcendental
philosophy. Come, we will pledge her in beer."

1ST AMERICAN. "What are they making all that row about--just because
SEEBACH walked across the stage? Why, she never said a word."

2D AMERICAN. "Let's go round to the hotel and take a quiet sleep till
she comes on again. I've got my night-clothes with me. Always bring 'em
when I go to see German tragedy."

Then ensue other hours of dialogue, interspersed with soliloquies of
half an hour each. Interspersed also with perpetual dropping of the
curtain, whereby the play is made to last some eight or ten hours longer
than would otherwise be the case. Most of the German music that has been
written during the last three centuries is played by the orchestra
during these intermissions. But in course of time SEEBACH gives us the
Garden scene, winning our frantic admiration by her inimitable
tenderness and grace, and finally we reach that grandest scene ever
written by dramatist, that most pathetic poem ever conceived by
poet--the meeting of "FAUST" and "MARGARET" in prison. At last we are
more than repaid for the dreary hours that have gone before. We have
seen SEEBACH'S "MARGARET"--the most powerful, the most pathetic, the
most beautiful, the most perfect creation of the stage.

And as we pass slowly up the tortuous, steep stairways of the theatre,
while the Germans, all talking at once, burden the air with
unintelligible gutturals, you say to me--if you are the intelligent
person that you ought to be--"SEEBACH is the greatest actress of this
century--greater than RISTORI, subtler and more tender than RACHEL."

With which opinion the undersigned concurs with all the emphasis of
conviction; and over our late breakfast, to which we immediately sit
down, we discuss the question, Which is the greatest--the poet who drew
"MARGARET," or the actress who made the poet's picture warm with
passionate life?

MATADOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Absolutely True.

For the last fifty years or so the metaphysical thinkers of Germany have
been engaged in seeking for the Absolute. From present indications it
would seem as though they are about to find it--where perhaps they least
expected it--in the imperial reign of King WILLIAM, aided and abetted by
Count VON BISMARCK.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE RIGHT PARTY."

A few days ago PUNCHINELLO officially announced his adhesion to the
Right Party.

PUNCHINELLO hadn't the slightest idea which party was the right one, but
thought that, as some party must be right, he could not go very for
wrong. But mark the _denouement_. Every party imagines itself the right
party, and welcomes him joyfully to its bosom. Republicans love him,
Independents worship him, while Democrats would endure even the
Fifteenth Amendment for his sake. In order to reciprocate their
sentiments Mr. P. would have to resolve himself into a kind of
Demo-Independent-Republican, which he has no idea of doing. Here's what
some of the "organs" say of him:

_The Sun_.

"We hail with joy the accession of PUNCHINELLO to the ranks of
independent journalism as embodied in the _Sun_, with a circulation of
over 100,000, CHAS. B. DANA Editor, price two cents. Reinforced by this
powerful journal, we shall continue with renewed vigor to demand of
HORACE GREELEY his reasons why J.C. BANCROFT DAVIS should not be removed
from the Assistant Secretaryship of State. We shall persevere in our
attempts to make Gen. GRANT understand that to move four and a half
inches from the White House is an infraction of the Constitution.
Regardless of the tears of the thousands of advertisers who carry their
announcements to our office, we shall devote our entire space to the
vilifying of BORIE, FISH, the _Disreputable Times and False Reporting
Tribune_. Those elaborate attacks upon moral corruption and the Erie
Ring, for which we have become famous, will remain specialties with us.
All this by PUNCHINELLO'S aid. Bully for PUNCHINELLO."

_The Tribune_.

"The moral influence of this paper, which retains the only correspondent
at the seat of war, and whose dispatches, procured at a cost of over
$2,000,000, are copied by the _Herald_, _Sun_ and _World_,--(and whoever
denies it lies damnably, with intent to malign, etc.,)--the moral
influence of this paper is rapidly extending itself throughout the
country. As a late instance, we note that PUNCHINELLO has given in its
adhesion to the only true and pure republican agricultural party, which
it appropriately names the "Right Party." PUNCHINELLO was once a
frivolous, good-for-nothing sheet, devoted to low jokes and witticisms.
The conversion of its editor to the temperance cause is the reason of
the recent change in its tenets. We bid it God speed."

_The World_.

"As the irrefutable and all-enduring truths of Democracy receive
exemplification in contemporaneous events, the reflecting and refined
masses of this city purchase the _World_ in preference to that decrepit
and fast decaying sheet, the _Herald_. PUNCHINELLO, recognizing with
ethereal foresight the exigencies of the situation, proclaims itself for
the "Right Party"--our party. We welcome with acclamation this valuable
addition to the Democratic ranks."

_The Star_.

"PUNCHINELLO has joined the Right Party, by which he obviously means the
_Star_, whose circulation last Sunday exceeded 375,005 copies.

"But this has nothing to do with the domestic policy of the Peruvians,
as expounded by the first CAESAR.

"PUNCHINELLO will prove a pillar of strength to Tammany Hall, unless the
siege of Paris should prove disastrous to the consumption of lager-bier,
as set forth in 'Boiled for her Bones' and other tales by the best
authors."

But Personals, my dear _Star_, Personals are the things that pay. If
thus, why not? As thus:

"EDITOR OF PUNCHINELLO. The Editor of PUNCHINELLO has an income of about
$500,000. He usually dines at the Hoffman House when out of State's
Prison. He owns some fine lots somewhere underneath the East River,
besides a brown stone front in Alaska."

"PUBLISHER OF PUNCHINELLO. This gentleman's income does not exceed
$350,000 per annum. He expends it principally in beautifying his
delightful summer residence in Mackerelville. It has been his misfortune
to pass many years of his life in a lunatic asylum, the unhappy result
of organizing plans for American Comic Papers. All is joy and peace with
him now, however; he looks hopefully forward to the time when
PUNCHINELLO shall have attained to his legitimate rank of the Foremost
Journal in the Nation. Meanwhile he lunches daily at a leading
restaurant on thirteen oysters, (a dozen and one over) with vinegar,
pepper and a bottle of Bass."

       *       *       *       *       *

"ONE MORE UNFORTUNATE."

MR. PUNCHINELLO: I fancy myself a victim of imposition, and I wish to
place my case before you. Having, for a period of six months, "honorably
and persistently," (to use the language of my friends,) held the office
of third Deputy-Assistant Register of Caramels, in and for the city and
county of New York, my associates in office and my friends in general
have determined to present me with a testimonial of their distinguished
regards. Accordingly, they have ordered a massive and handsomely
engraved pair of silver tongs, and a splendid silver fire-shovel. This
is all very well, so far, but the committee informed me yesterday that
the shovel and tongs would cost four hundred and twenty-five dollars,
and that, as only eight dollars and a half had been collected, it was
considered highly important that I should immediately hand over the
balance of the price, in order that the presentation and banquet, (to
take place at my house on next Saturday evening,) might not be
postponed, to the great disappointment of my associates in office and my
friends in general.

Now, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, is not this a little hard on me? I know very well
that it is customary for the recipients of testimonials to pay
three-quarters of the cost of the present, and I am perfectly willing to
abide by this custom; but forty-nine fiftieths is, I think, rather too
heavy, especially as my house is heated by a furnace in the cellar and I
have no use for a shovel and tongs--particularly silver ones.

Yours perturbedly, A. DOANE KNEA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Roaming Troops.

The Italians in this country are very jubilant over the occupation of
Rome by the army of Italy. But people of other nations hereabouts are
not so much elated about the occupation of Roam in which the numerous
troops of Italian organ-grinders are engaged.

       *       *       *       *       *

Subject for a Debating Society.

Can a couple who have contracted a clandestine marriage be properly said
to be carrying out their clandestiny?

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: A CHEERFUL PROSPECT.

THE MORNING HAVING BEEN BRIGHT AND CLEAR, MR. DEBOOTS DECIDED TO AVAIL
HIMSELF OF AN INVITATION TO SPEND THE DAY IN THE COUNTRY. HE ARRIVES AT
THE STATION, AND HAS A MILE TO WALK.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: COMFORTING ASSURANCES.

_H. Greeley and G. W. Curtis, together._ "OHO! LITTLE WOODFORD; AIN'T
YOU GOING TO BE LICKED, NEITHER!--WON'T YOU GET YOUR EYES BLACKED, AND
YOUR NOSE SMASHED, AND YOUR TEETH BROKE!--AIN'T I GLAD I AIN'T THE ONE
AS HAS GOT TO FIGHT BIG JOHNNY HOFFMAN!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AGRICULTURAL RHYME.

NOT BY H. G.

    Plough deep--two feet, at least--for corn or rye.
    You can't, in stony land? Sir, that's a lie;
    A sub-soil plough will do it; then manure,
    And put on plenty; if the land is poor,
    Get muck and plaster; buy them by the heap,
    No matter what they cost, you'll find them cheap.
    I've tried them often, and I think I know,
    Then plough again two feet before you sow.

    Potatoes get on best in sandy soil,
    I'm sure of _that_--but plant before you boil;
    Then put in strawberries; that's what I do--
    Confound you for a blockhead! Why don't you
    Get modern works and read them? No, you'd rather
    Go creeping on just like your stupid father.
    That patch is good for melons. Why the deuce
    Don't you convert those swamps to better use?

    Beets are a paying crop, and don't cost much
    To raise; so's cabbage, pumpkins, squash, and such;
    They'll always sell and bring you back your money--
    No bees? The mischief! What d'ye do for honey?
    Sir, let me tell you plainly you're an ass--
    Just look at those ten acres gone to grass!
    Put turnips in 'em. Timothy don't pay--
    Can't cattle feed on anything but hay?

    I don't consider hogs a first-class crop;
    Give me my own free choice, sir, and I'd swap
    The best of 'em for strawberries or sheep--
    But let me say again, you must plough deep;
    The trouble with our farmers is, that they
    Can't be induced to look beyond to-day;
    Let them get sub-soil ploughs and turn up sand
    And hang it, sir! let them manure their land.

       *       *       *       *       *

SALVATION FOR EUROPE.

Some hope that the great Powers of Europe may yet be saved from a fate
similar to that of the Kilkenny Cats, is to be found in the fact that
General BURNSIDE, favorably known in Rhode Island, is making
arrangements for bringing about peace between France and Germany. It has
already been said by journalists of mark, that, unless Providence
interfered, and that soon, all Europe would shortly be deluged with the
blood of her peoples. General BURNSIDE is the direct representative of
Providence, and he has gone specially to Europe to interfere. He was
born in Providence, (R.I.); he believes in Providence; his portrait is
the special pride of Providence; and there is a "Providence that shapes
his ends." Thus it will be seen that BURNSIDE is the very man for the
situation. It may be asked, (there are cavillers who ask impertinent
questions about everything,) what business BURNSIDE has to meddle with
European affairs? Pshaw!--one might as well ask what business Colorado
JEWETT has to meddle with everybody's affairs, or GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN,
or PAUL PRY, or WIKOFF. BURNSIDE against BISMARCK for diplomacy any
time. Probably he aims at the throne of France for himself, and having
Providence (R.I.,) to back him, he may sit on it yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

What bad habit does a man contract when he falls into a way of praising
everything and everybody?

He takes to laud'n'm.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: ORPHEUS GREELEY, CHARMING WITH THE STRAINS OF THE
REPUBLICAN LYRE THE CERBERUS, (O'BRIEN, MORRISSEY, AND FOX,) ON GUARD AT
THE ENTRANCE TO THE DREAD ABODE OF THE JOHN REAL DEMOCRACY.]

       *       *       *       *       *

HIRAM GREEN AT THE BOSTON WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

Old Time Agitators again on their Muscle.--Thanks to Henry
Wilson.--Advice to Charles Sumner.--Left-Handers to Wendell
Phillips.

    Oho! ye gods and little fishes,
      Beggars 'd ride, if hosses was wishes;
    Wimmen would have a millenium day,
      And all through the land the "deuce be to pay."

The Masserchewsetts Woman's _Suffering_ Society pulled off their cote
and vest and struck a beligerent attitood, at Bosting, a few days since.

Yes, sir! I was there, and I still live to tell my tale.

E-x-z-a-ckt-ly!

As usual, on all such occasions, the women wore the bre-b-bifurcated
garments, while the _softer_ sex shone transparently, in silk, satins,
and black and bloo spots.

Like jumpin' jacks, they danced when the _strong-minded_ pulled the
strings, while their ears were pinned back and greased, ready to be
swallered at a minnit's warnin'.

JEWLEIR WARD HOW was chosen President, and S.E. Sewell, ABBI KELLY
FOSTIR, MARY E. SARGINT, the Rev. J. Freman Klark, LIDIA MARIAR CHILDE
and Frank B. Sanborne, Vice Presidents.

THE REV. HON. JUDGE AGUSTY J. CHAPIN, ESQ., L.L.D., opened the dance
with a prologue.

Mrs. How then rose and got up, and said:

"Feller citizens: We've got together, as usual, without any plan of
operation, except to howl and make faces at the critter man, ontil he is
ready to give up his liberties and endow us _angelic_ beeins with the
privilege of fillin' up with benzine on eleckshun day; to vote and rool
the destinies of the land." (Cheers.)

"No woman who desires the ballit, shall desist from hen-peckin her
husband, ontil, in his agony, he cries: 'Peace! be still! there's my
harness, get into it.'"

Mrs. LIVERMOOR, H.B. Blackwell, MARGARET CAMBELL, M. Fiske, and SARY E.
WILKINS, committee on resolutions, reported the follerin:

_Whereas:_ When our anshient relative, Adam, had the monopoly of the
ballit box, it was diskivered that it was not ment for man to vote
alone, and enjoy too much of a good thing. Consekently EVE was sent to
stir him up.

_Whereas:_ When Mother EVE got there, she made it slightly warm for
Adam, by assertin' her rites. Like many of our members, she made Adam
"walk chalk." On eleckshun day she took him by the ear and walked him to
the poles, and for the first time in his life he voted the woman's rites
ticket, and Mr. SATIN was elected by a unanimous vote.

Therefore, we recognize in EVE the pioneer of woman's rites, with ST.
NICKOLAS as our patron saint. (Great applause, with "3 cheers for OLD
NICK, the first candidate elected by femail suffrage.")

It was then resolved to send committees to the Democratic and Republican
conventions, to see if any LOONATICS had been nominated, who were in
favor of femail soopremiosity.

If any such persons were found, they should be requested to announce it
through the columns of the _Woman's Journal_, and let the world know the
fools wasent all dead yet.

Should the candidates be opposed to our cause, it was recommended that
when the Woman's Convention Committee meet, on the 18th of October, that
ten talented talkers be appointed to surround the candidates and talk
them to death as a warnin to futer candidates.

Congratulatory speeches, endorsin' these last resolutions, was made by
the wimmen, and I gess they would have kept talkin' ontil doomsday, if
the chokin-off committee hadn't been sent around with copies of
_Harper's Bazaar_, full of pictures of the new fall fashions. (Between
you and I, Mister PUNCHINELLO, the only thing which our wives goes
heavier on than their rites, so called, is fashions.) The convention
then thanked Hon. Hank Wilson for blowin' their trumpet, and voted to
present him with a new hoop skirt and a pound of spruce gum as a token
of their appreciation.

Charles Sumner was then trotted, out, viz.:

_Whereas:_ Charles Sumner has, somehow or other, got one foot kerslop on
our platform;

_Whereas:_ He must go the hul hog or none;

_Be it resolved:_ We can't take any stock in Charly, ontil he wears his
hair parted in the middle and done up in a waterfall, pledgin' himself
to go his entire length, next winter, for the 16th Commendment.
(Enthusiastic applause. Cries of "them's um!" "Kor-rect!" "Selah!'"
etc.; "Bully boy with the glass eye!" etc., etc.)

Mrs. How then got up and said thusly: "My friends: I'me down onto
colleges like a 1000 of brick. They are the mad puddles of artificial
ignorance. If a red-headed woman was alowed to shed her lite, the
proffessors would be throwed into the shades rite lively. The result
would be, the blind would lead the near-sited by the nose. Them's my
sentiments."

Stephen L. Fostir got up and said:

"He woulden't go to the poles on eleckshun without his wife as his ekal
a hangin' on his arm."

Mrs. LIVERMORE sprung quickly to her feet and said: "She'd bet $4.00 if
she was Steve's wife, he'd go to the poles under diffikilties, then, for
she wasen't the woman who thought the man lived that was the ekal of any
woman; and that hain't all," said she. "When we get hold of the ballit,
man has got to get up early in the mornin' to fool _us_ much. All the
koketting with the Democrats, Republicans, Prohibitionists, and Labor
Reformers in the offis of the _Woman's Journal_, last summer, don't
amount to shucks. Prominent politicians had entreeted her to go slow and
not mash things. I can only say," said Mrs. L., "as John Bunyan once
said:

    'When woman will, she will.
      And you can jest bet on't;
    When she won't, she won't,
      And there's an end on't.'"

An aged individual named Jenking, from Andover, said: "When he was in
his first childhood, he was drest in peticotes. He was now over 75 years
old, and believed an old man would feel better in caliker than satinett.
Hereafter they could count on him to wear out their old dresses."

A few left-handed compliments were paid to Wendil Fillips, and altho'
Wendil had allers went heavy on Wimmen's Rites, his bein' endossed by
his own sex was a squelcher on him. He wasen't endossed, but, like
Jonah, went overboard, to be hove up agin onto dry land in a few days,
for a whale has got to have a pretty good stomack to keep Mister Fillips
down a great while. That's so.

