The story of Shortshanks may be taken as a fair, and even a favorable
example of the tone of these Norse tales. Shortshanks and King Sturdy
are twin brothers, who set out to seek their fortunes within a few
minutes of their birth, driven thereto by a precocious perception of the
_res angustæ domi_. They part at two roads almost immediately, and the
story follows the fortunes of Shortshanks, the younger; for in these
miniature romances the elder is, as usual, continually snubbed, and the
younger is always the great man. Shortshanks has not gone far before he
meets "an old crook-backed hag," who has only one eye; and he commences
his career by gouging out or "snapping up" the single comfort of this
helpless creature. To get her eye back again, she gives Shortshanks a
sword that will put a whole army to flight; and he, charmed with the
result of his first manoeuvre, puts it in practice successively upon two
other decrepit, half-blind women, who, to get their eyes again, give
him, one, a ship that can sail over fresh water and salt water and over
high hills and deep dales, the other, the art how to brew a hundred
lasts of malt at one strike. The ship takes him to the king's palace, on
arriving at which he puts his vessel in his pocket, when he summons his
craft to his aid, and gets a place in the king's kitchen to carry wood
and water for the maid. The king's daughter has for some inscrutable
reason been promised to three ogres, who come successively to fetch her;
and a certain Ritter Red professes to be man enough to rescue her, but
on the approach of the first ogre proves to be a coward and climbs a
tree. But Shortshanks slips off from his scullery; and having a weapon
which can put a whole army to flight by a single stroke, he is very
brave, and keeps a remarkably good face to the foe, giving him with his
tongue as good as he sends, and, laughing the ogres' dubs to scorn, cuts
off the ogrous heads, (there are five on the first individual, ten on
the second, and fifteen on the third,) and carries off much treasure
from the ships in which his foes came to fetch their victim. Ritter Red
descends, and takes the lungs and the tongues of the ogres, (though, as
the latter were thirty in number and of gigantic size, he must have had
trouble in carrying them,) and wishes to pass them off as evidence that
he is the deliverer of the princess, of which they would seem to have
been very satisfactory proof: but the gold, silver, and diamonds carry
the day; Shortshanks has the princess and half the kingdom, and Ritter
Red is thrown into a pit full of snakes,--on the French general's
principle, we suppose, who hung his cowards "_pour encourager les
autres_." But the king has another daughter, whom an ogre has carried
off to the bottom of the sea. Shortshanks discovers her while the ogre
is out looking for a man who can brew a hundred lasts of malt at one
strike. He finds the man at home, of course, and puts him to his task.
Shortshanks gets the ogre and all his kith and kin to help the brew, and
brews the wort so strong, that, on tasting it, they all fall down dead,
except one, an old woman, "who lay bed-ridden in the chimney-corner,"
and to her our hero carries his wort and kills her too. He then carries
off the treasure of the ogres, and gives this princess and the other
half of the kingdom to his brother Sturdy.

Now we have no particular fault to find with such stories as these, when
they are produced as characteristic specimens of the folk-lore of a
people; as such, they have a value beside their intrinsic interest;--but
when we are asked to receive them as part of the evidence that that
people is an honest and manly race, and as an acceptable addition to our
stock of household tales, we demur. The truth is, that the very worth of
these tales is to be found not only in the fact that they form a part of
the stock from which our own are derived, but in the other fact that
they represent that stock as it existed at an earlier and ruder stage of
humanitarian development. They were told by savage mothers to savage
children; and although some of them teach the few virtues common to
barbarism and civilization, they are filled with the glorification of
savage vice and crime;--deceit, theft, violence, even ruthless vengeance
upon a cruel parent, are constantly practised by the characters which
they hold up to favor. Such humor as they have, too, is of the coarsest
kind, and is expressed chiefly in rude practical jokes, or the bloody
overreaching of the poor thick-headed Trolls, who are the butts of the
stories and the victims of their heroes. There is good ethnological and
mythological reason why the Trolls should be butts and victims, it is
true; but that is not to the present purpose.

But although this judgment must be passed upon the collection,
considered merely as tales to be told and read at this stage of the
world's progress, there are several notable exceptions to it,--tales
which are based upon healthy instincts, and which appeal to sympathies
that are never entirely undeveloped in the breasts of human beings above
the grade of Bushmen, or in which the fun does not depend upon the
exhibition of unexpected modes of inflicting death, pain, or discomfort.
It is not, however, in these that we are to look for the chief
attraction and compensating value of the collection. Those are to be
found, as we have already hinted, in the relative aspects of the tales,
which the general reader might consider for a long time fruitlessly,
save for the help of Mr. Dasent's Introductory Essay. This is at once an
acute and learned commentary upon the tales themselves, and a thoroughly
elaborated monograph upon mythology in its ethnological relations. We
know no other essay upon this subject that is so comprehensive, so
compact, so clear, and so well adapted to interest intelligent readers
who have little previous knowledge on the subject, as Mr. Dasent's,
although, of necessity, it presents us with results, not processes. A
perusal of this Essay will give the intelligent and attentive reader so
just a general notion of the last results of philological and
ethnological investigation into the history of the origin and progress
of the Indo-European races, that he can listen with understanding to the
conversation of men who have made that subject their special study, and
appreciate, in a measure at least, the value of the many references to
it which he meets in the course of his miscellaneous reading. And should
he be led by the contagion of Mr. Dasent's intelligent enthusiasm to
desire a more intimate acquaintance with a topic which rarely fails to
fascinate those whose tastes lead them to enter at all upon it, he may
start from this Essay with hints as to the plan and purpose of his
reading which will save him much otherwise blind and fruitless labor.

This, however, is not all. It is but right also to say that the readers
whose religion is one of extreme orthodoxy, that is, who deem it their
bounden duty to believe exactly and literally as somebody else believed
before them,--such readers will find their orthodoxy often shocked by
the tales which Mr. Dasent has translated, and yet oftener and more
violently by conclusions which Mr. Dasent draws from a comparison of
these stories with others that bear the same relation to other races
which these do to the Norsemen. The man who believes that Hell is a
particular part of the universe, filled with flames and melted
brimstone, into which actual devils, with horns, hoofs, and tails, dip,
or are to dip, wicked people, whom, for greater convenience, they have
previously perforated with three-tined pitchforks,--such a man will be
puzzled by the story, "Why the Sea is Salt," and horrified with this
comment in Mr. Dasent's Essay:--

    "The North had its own notion on this point. Its mythology
    was not without its own dark powers; but though they, too,
    were ejected and dispossessed, they, according to that
    mythology, had rights of their own. To them belonged all the
    universe that had not been seized and reclaimed by the
    younger race of Odin and Æsir; and though this upstart
    dynasty, as the Frost-Giants in Æschylean phrase would have
    called it, well knew that Hel, one of this giant progeny, was
    fated to do them all mischief, and to outlive them, they took
    her and made her queen of Niflheim, and mistress over nine
    worlds. There, in a bitterly cold place, she received the
    souls of all who died of sickness or old age; care was her
    bed, hunger her dish, starvation her knife. Her walls were
    high and strong, and her bolts and bars huge. 'Half blue was
    her skin, and half the color of human flesh. A goddess easy
    to know, and in all things very stern and grim.' But though
    severe, she was not an evil spirit. She only received those
    who died as no Norseman wished to die. For those who fell on
    the gory battle-field, or sank beneath the waves, Valhalla
    was prepared, and endless mirth and bliss with Odin. Those
    went to Hel who were rather unfortunate than wicked, who died
    before they could be killed. But when Christianity came in
    and ejected Odin and his crew of false divinities, declaring
    them to be lying gods and demons, then Hel fell with the
    rest,--but, fulfilling her fate, outlived them. From a person
    she became a place; and all the Northern nations, from the
    Goth to the Norseman, agreed in believing Hell to be the
    abode of the Devil and his wicked spirits, the place prepared
    from the beginning for the everlasting torments of the
    damned. One curious fact connected with this explanation of
    Hell's origin will not escape the reader's attention. The
    Christian notion of Hell is that of a place of heat; for in
    the East, whence Christianity came, heat is often an
    intolerable torment,--and cold, on the other hand, everything
    that is pleasant and delightful. But to the dweller in the
    North heat brings with it sensations of joy and comfort, and
    life without fire has a dreary outlook; so their Hel ruled in
    a cold region, over those who were cowards by implication,
    while the mead-cup went round, and huge logs blazed and
    crackled, for the brave and beautiful who had dared to die on
    the field of battle. But under Christianity the extremes of
    heat and cold have met, and Hel, the cold, uncomfortable
    goddess, is now our Hell, where flames and fires abound, and
    where the devils abide in everlasting flame."

Still more will orthodoxy be shocked by Mr. Dasent's neglect to except
Christianity from the conclusion, (no new one, it need hardly be said,
to those who know anything of the subject,) that the mythologies or
personal histories of all religions have been evolved the one from the
other, or grafted the one upon the other,--and by his intimation, that
Christianity, keeping pure in its spirit and undiverted from its
purpose, has yet not hesitated to adapt its outward forms to the tough
popular traditions which it found deeply rooted in the soil where it
sought to grow, thus making itself "all things to all men, that it might
by all means save some."

It will be seen that this book is not milk for babes, but meat for
strong men. Among the tales are some--and those, perhaps, the most
interesting--which Mr. Dasent justly characterizes as "intensely
heathen," and yet in which the Saviour of the world or his apostles
appear as interlocutors or actors, which alone unfits the volume for the
book-table of the household room. We are led to insist upon this trait
of the collection the more, because the translator's choice of language
often seems to be the result of a desire to adapt himself to very
youthful readers,--though why should even they be led to believe that
such phrases as the following are correct by seeing them in
print?--"Tore it up like nothing"; "ran away like anything"; "it was no
good" [_i.e._ of no use]; "in all my born days"; "after a bit" [_i.e._ a
little while]; "she had to let him in, and when he was, he lay," etc.;
"the Giant got up cruelly early." These, and others like them, are
profusely scattered through the tales, apparently from the mistaken
notion that they have some idiomatic force. They jar upon the ear of the
reader who comes to them from Mr. Dasent's admirably written
Introductory Essay.

The book is one which we can heartily recommend to all who are
interested in popular traditions for their own sake, or in their
ethnological relations.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Love_, From the French of M.J. Michelet. Translated from the Fourth
Paris Edition, by J.W. Palmer, M.D., Author of "The New and The Old,"
"Up and Down the Irawaddi," etc.

M. Michelet perhaps longs, like Anacreon, to tell the story of the
Atrides and of Cadmus, but here we find him singing only of Love. It is
a surprise to us that the historian should have chosen this
subject;--the book itself is another surprise. It starts from a few
facts which it borrows from science, and out of them it builds a
poem,--a drama in five acts called _Books_, to disguise them. Two
characters figure chiefly on the stage,--a husband and a wife. The unity
of time is not very strictly kept, for the pair are traced from youth to
age, and even beyond their mortal years. Moral reflections and
occasional rhapsodies are wreathed about this physiological and
psychological love-drama.

Here, then, is a book with the most taking word in the language for its
title, and one of the most distinguished personages in contemporary
literature for its author. It has been extensively read in France, and
is attracting general notice in this country. Opinions are divided among
us concerning it; it is extravagantly praised, and hastily condemned.

On the whole, the book is destined, we believe, to do much more good
than harm. Admit all its high-flown sentimentalism to be
half-unconscious affectation, such as we pardon in writers of the Great
Nation,--admit that the author is wild and fanciful in many of his
statements, that he talks of a state of society of which it has been
said that the law is that a man shall hate his neighbor and love his
neighbor's wife,--admit all this and what lesser faults may be added to
them, its great lessons are on the side of humanity, and especially of
justice to woman, founded on a study of her organic and spiritual
limitations.

_Woman is an invalid_. This is the first axiom, out of which flow the
precepts of care, bodily and mental, of tenderness, of consideration,
with which the book abounds. To show this, M. Michelet has recourse to
the investigations of the physiologists who during the present century
have studied the special conditions which according to the old axiom
make woman what she is. As nothing short of this can by any possibility
enable us to understand the feminine nature, we must not find fault with
some details not commonly thought adapted to the general reader. They
are given delicately, but they are given, and suggest a certain reserve
in introducing the book to the reading classes. Not only is woman an
invalid, but the _rhythmic character of her life_, "as if scanned by
Nature," is an element not to be neglected without total failure to read
her in health and in disease. There is a great deal relating to this
matter, some of it seeming fanciful and overwrought, but not more so
than the natures of many women. For woman herself is an hyperbole, and
the plainest statement of her condition is a figure of speech. Some of
those chapters that are written, as we might say, in hysteric
paragraphs, only more fitly express the extravagances which belong to
the nervous movements of the woman's nature.

_The husband must create the wife_. Much of the book is taken up with
the precepts by which this new birth of the woman is to be brought
about, M. Michelet's "entire affection" hateth those "nicer hands" winch
would refuse any, even the humblest offices. The husband should be at
once nurse and physician. He should regulate the food of the body, and
measure out the doses of mental nourishment. All this is kind and good
and affectionate; but there is just a suspicion excited that _Madame_
might become slightly _ennuyée_, if she were subjected to this minute
surveillance over her physical and spiritual hygiene. Everything must
depend on individual tendencies and aptitudes; we have known husbands
that were born for nurses,--and others, not less affectionate, that
worried more than they helped in that capacity.

We cannot follow M. Michelet through his study of the reaction of the
characters of the husband and wife upon each other, of the influence of
maternity on conjugal relations, of the languishing of love and its
rejuvenescence. Still less can we do more than remotely allude to those
chapters in which his model woman is represented as ready on the
slightest occasion to prove the name of her sex synonymous with frailty.
We really do not know what to make of such things. The cool calculations
of temptation as certain, and failure as probable,--the serious advice
not to strike a wife under any circumstances,--such words have literally
no meaning to most of our own American readers. Our women are educated
to self-reliance,--and our men are, at least, too busy for the trade of
tempters.

In a word, this book was written for French people, and is adjusted to
the meridian of Paris. We must remember this always in reading it, and
also remember that a Frenchman does not think English any more than he
_talks_ it. We sometimes flatter ourselves with the idea that we as a
people are original in our tendency to extravagance of thought and
language. It is a conceit of ours. Remember Sterne's _perruquier_.

"'You may immerge it,' replied he, 'into the ocean, and it will stand.'

"'What a great scale is everything upon, in this city!' thought I. 'The
utmost stretch of an English periwig-maker's ideas could have gone no
farther than to have dipped it into a pail of water.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

How much such experiences as the following amount to we must leave to
the ecclesiastical bodies to settle.

"The Church is openly against her, [woman,] owing her a grudge for the
sin of Eve."

"It is very easy for us, educated in the religion of the indulgent God
of Nature, to look our common destiny in the face. But she, impressed
with the dogma of eternal punishment, though she may have received other
ideas from you, still, in her suffering and debility, has painful
foreshadowings of the future state."

But here are physiological statements which we take the liberty to
question on our own responsibility.

"A French girl of fifteen is as mature as an English one of eighteen."
What will Mr. Roberton of Manchester, who has exploded so many of our
fancies about the women of the East, say to this?

"A wound, for which the German woman would require surgical aid, in the
French woman cures itself." We must say of such an unproved assertion as
the French General said of the charge at Balaklava,--"_C'est magnifique,
mais ce n'est pas la_"--_médecine_.

"Generally, she [woman] is sick from love,--man, from indigestion." What
a pity Nature never makes such pretty epigrams with her facts as wits do
with their words!

We have enough, too, of that self-assertion which Carlyle and Ruskin and
some of our clerical neighbors have made us familiar with, and which
gives flavor to a work of genius. "I was worth more than my writings,
more than my discourses. I brought to this teaching of philosophy and
history a soul as yet entire,--a great freshness of mind, under forms
often subtle,--a true simplicity of heart," etc.

M. Michelet does not undervalue the importance of his work. He thinks he
has ruined the dancing-gardens by the startling revelations respecting
woman contained in his book. He announces a still greater triumph:--"I
believe I have effectually suppressed old women. They will no longer be
met with." M. Michelet has not seen the columns of some of our weekly
newspapers.

These are scales from the husk of his book, which, with all its
fantasies, is a generous plea for woman. Wise persons may safely read
it, though they be not Parisians.

The translation is, and is generally considered, excellent. We notice
two errors,--_Jerres_, instead of _Serres_,--and _would_, for _should_,
after the Scotch and Southern provincial fashion;--with some
questionable words, as _reliable_, for which we have Sir Robert Peel's
authority, which cannot make it as honest a word as _trustworthy_,--
_masculize_, which is at least intelligible,--and _fast_, used as
college-boys use it in their loose talk, but not with the meaning which
sober scholars are wont to give it. With these slight exceptions, the
translation appears to us singularly felicitous, notwithstanding the
task must have been very difficult, which Dr. Palmer has performed with
such rare success.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Farm-Drainage_. The Principles, Processes, and Effects of Draining
Land, with Wood, Stones, Ploughs, and Open Ditches, and especially with
Tiles; including Tables of Rainfall, Evaporation, Filtration,
Excavation, Capacity of Pipes; Cost, and Number to the Acre, of Tiles,
etc., etc.; and more than One Hundred Illustrations. By HENRY E. FRENCH.
New York: A.O. Moore & Co. 1859. 8vo. pp. 384.

We remember standing, thirty years ago, upon the cupola of a court-house
in New Jersey, and, while enjoying the whole panorama, being
particularly impressed with the superior fertility and luxuriance of one
farm on the outskirts of the town. We recollect further, that, on
inquiry, we found this farm to belong to a Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas, who also exercised the trade of a potter, and underdrained his
land with tile-drains. His neighbors attributed the improvement in his
farm to manure and tillage, and thought his attempts to introduce
tile-drains into use arose chiefly from his desire to make a market for
his tiles. Thirty years have made a great change; and a New Hampshire
Judge of the Court of Common Pleas gives us a book on Farm-Drainage
which tells us that in England twenty millions of dollars have been
loaned by the government to be used in underdraining with tile!

We believe that Judge French has given the first practical guide in
draining to the American farmer,--indeed, the first book professing to
be a complete practical guide to the farmers of any country. His right
to speak is derived from successful experiments of his own, from a visit
to European agriculturists, and from a personal correspondence with the
best drainage-engineers of England and America, as well as from the
study of all available magazines and journals. No one could handle the
subject in a more pleasant and lucid style; flashes of wit, and even of
humor, are sparkling through every chapter, but they never divert the
mind of the reader from the main purpose of elucidating the subject of
deep drainage. The title-page does not promise so much as the book
performs; and we feel confident that its reputation will increase, as
our farmers begin to understand the true effects of deep drainage on
upland, and seek for a guide in the improvement of their farms.

The rain-tables, furnished by Dr. E. Hobbs, of Waltham, afford some very
interesting statistics, by which our climate may be definitely compared
with that of our mother country. In England, they have about 156 rainy
days _per annum_, and we but 56. In England, one inch in 24 hours is
considered a great rain; but in New England six inches and seven-eighths
(6.88) has been known to fall in 24 hours. In England, the annual fall
is about 21,--in New England, 42 inches. The experiments on the
retention of water by the soil are also interesting; showing that
ordinary arable soil is capable of holding nearly six inches of water in
every foot of soil.

Not the least valuable portion of the book is a brief discussion of some
of the legal questions connected with drainage; the rights of
land-owners in running waters, and in reference to the water in the
soil; the rights of mill-owners and water-power companies; and the
subject of flowage, by which so many thousand acres of valuable arable
land are ruined to support unprofitable manufacturing companies. The
rights of agriculturists, and the interests of agriculture, demand the
care of our governments, and the hearty aid of our scientific men; and
we are glad to find a judge who, at least when off the bench, speaks
sound words in their behalf.

Agriculture in the Atlantic States is beginning to attract the attention
which its great importance demands. Thorough draining is, as yet, little
used among us, but a beginning has been made; and Judge French's book
will, doubtless, be of value in extension of the practice. If any reader
has not yet heard what thorough draining is, we would say, in brief,
that it consists in laying tile-pipes, from one and a half to three
inches in diameter, four feet under ground, at from twenty to sixty feet
apart, so inclined as to drain out of your ground all the water that may
be within three feet of the surface. This costs from $30 to $60 per
acre, and is in almost all kinds of arable land an excellent investment
of capital,--making the spring earlier, the land warmer, rain less
injurious, drought less severe, the crops better in quality and greater
in quantity. In short, thorough draining is, as our author says,
following Cromwell's advice, "trusting in Providence, but keeping the
powder dry."

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Novels of James Fenimore Cooper_. Illustrated with Steel Engravings
from Drawings by Darley. New York: W.A. Townsend & Co.

The British Museum, it is said, has accumulated over twenty-seven
thousand novels written since the publication of "Waverley." With the
general diffusion of education the ambition of authorship has had a
corresponding increase; and people who were not inspired to make rhymes,
nor learned enough to undertake history, philosophy, or science, as well
as those who despaired of success in essays, travels, or sermons, have
all thought themselves capable of representing human life in the form of
fiction. Very few of the twenty-seven thousand, probably, are wholly
destitute of merit. Each author has drawn what he saw, or knew, or did,
or imagined; and so has preserved something worthy, for those who live
upon his plane and see the world with his eyes. The difficulty is, that
the vision of most men is limited; they observe human nature only in a
few of its many aspects; they cannot so far lift themselves above the
trivial affairs around them as to take in the whole of humanity at a
glance. Even when rare types of character are presented to view, it is
only a genius who can for the time assimilate himself to them, and so
make their portraits life-like upon his canvas. In every old-fashioned
town there are models for new Dogberrys and Edie Ochiltrees; our
seaports have plenty of Bunsbys; every great city has its Becky Sharpe
and Major Pendennis. One has only to listen to a group of Irish laborers
in their unrestrained talk to find that the delicious _non sequitur_,
which is the charm of the grave-diggers' conversation in "Hamlet," is by
no means obsolete. But who can write such a colloquy? It would be
easier, we fancy, for a clever man to give a sketch of Lord Bacon, with
all his rapid and profound generalization, than to follow the slow and
tortuous mental processes of a clodhopper.

To secure the attention of his readers, the novelist must construct a
plot and create the characters whose movements shall produce the
designed catastrophe, and, by the incidents and dialogue, exhibit the
passions, the virtues, the aspirations, the weaknesses, and the villany
of human nature. It is needless to say that most characters in fiction
are as shadowy as Ossian's ghosts; the proof is, that, when the
incidents of the story have passed out of memory, the persons are
likewise forgotten. Of all the popular novelists, not more than half a
dozen have ever created characters that survive,--characters that are
felt to be "representative men." After Shakspeare and Scott, Dickens
comes first, unquestionably; although, in analysis, philosophy, force,
and purity of style, he is far inferior to Thackeray. Parson Adams will
not be forgotten, nor that gentle monogamist, the good Vicar of
Wakefield. But as for Bulwer, notwithstanding his wonderful art in
construction and the brilliancy of his style, who remembers a character
out of his novels, unless it be Doctor Riccabocca?

After this rather long preamble, let us hasten to say, that Cooper, in
spite of many and the most obvious faults, has succeeded in portraying a
few characters which stand out in bold relief,--and that his works,
after years of criticism and competition, still hold their place, on
both continents, among the most delightful novels in the language. Other
writers have appeared, with more culture, with more imagination, with
more spiritual insight, with more attractiveness of style; but
Leatherstocking, in the virgin forest, with the crafty, painted savage
retreating before him, and the far-distant hum of civilization following
his trail, is a creation which no reader ever can or would forget,--a
creation for which the merely accomplished writer would gladly exchange
all the fine sentences and word-pictures that he had ever put on paper.
It is also due to Cooper to say, that "The Pilot" was the first, and
still is the best, of nautical novels; we say this in fell recollection
of its trace of stupid heroines. The very air of the book is salt. As
you read, you hear the wind in the rigging,--a sound that one never
forgets. The form and motion of waves, the passing of distant ships, the
outlines of spars and cordage against the sky, the blue above and the
blue below, all the scenery of the sea, here for the first time found an
appreciative artist.

We have not space to mention these novels separately. We are glad to see
an edition which is worthy of the author's genius,--each volume graced
with the designs of Darley. The style in which the work has been issued
is creditable to the publishers, and cannot fail to be remunerative.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Ettore Fieramosca; or, the Challenge of Barletta_. The Struggles of an
Italian against Foreign Invaders and Foreign Protectors. By MASSIMO D'
AZEGLIO. Boston: Phillips, Sampson, & Co. 16mo.

The recent war led to the publication of a great number of books upon
the state of Italy and the relative positions of the contending powers;
now that the wave has receded, all these are left high and dry. This
novel, however, does not depend upon any transient interest in the
affairs of Italy for its success. As the production of an eminent
author, who is also one of the first of Italian statesmen, it demands a
respectful consideration. The condition of the country in the sixteenth
century presents a striking counterpart to that of the present year: two
foreign monarchs were at war in the Peninsula; and then, as now, it was
a question whether unhappy Italy had not as much to fear from her allies
as from her invaders.

The scene of the story is laid in the little town of Barletta, on the
Adriatic coast, in the present kingdom of Naples. The action turns upon
the fortunes of the day in a contest _à l'outrance_, wherein a dozen
French knights, the flower of the invading army, were met and vanquished
by an equal number of Italians, of whom the hero, Ettore Fieramosca, was
the chief. The English reader will not expect to find in this book any
of the traits with which he is familiar in the novels of our own
authors. There is little scenery-painting, few wayside reflections, and
no attempt at portraying the comic side of human nature, or even the
ordinary gayety of domestic life. The times did not suggest such topics;
and if they did, we suspect that the Italian novelists would turn from
such commonplace affairs to the more stirring events with which History
has been heretofore concerned. But the story before us has no lack of
incident. When the persons of the drama are fairly brought upon the
stage, the action begins at once; surprise follows surprise, plot is
matched by plot, until the fortunes of the actors are entwined
inextricably. The portraits of the famous Colonna and of the infamous
Cæsar Borgia (the latter being the arch "villain" of the story) are
drawn in sharp and decisive lines. The tournament which forms the scene
of the catastrophe is a brilliant picture, though not a pleasing one for
a Friend or a member of the Peace Society.

Of course the element of Love is not wanting; two golden threads run
through the crimsoned web; but whether they meet before Atropos comes
with the fatal shears, it is not best to say. When the modern
novel-reader can answer the momentous question, "Did they marry?" the
charm of the most exciting story, for him, is gone.

Aside from the interest which one feels in the changing fortunes of the
hero, the book is especially valuable for the light it throws upon that
period of Italian history, and upon the subtilties of Italian character.


RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS.


The Goodness of God. Sermons by Charles Kingsley. New York. Burt,
Hutchinson, & Abbey. 12mo. pp. 370. $1.00.

Theodore Parker's Experience as a Minister; with some Account of his
Early Life and Education for the Ministry. Contained in a Letter from
him to the Members of the Twenty-Eighth Congregationalist Society of
Boston. Boston. Rufus Leighton, Jr. 16mo. pp. 182. 50 cts.

The Roman Question. By E. About. Translated from the French, by H.C.
Coape. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 219. 60 cts.

Tent and Harem. Notes of an Oriental Trip. By Caroline Paine. New York.
D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 300. $1.00.

The French Revolution of 1789, as viewed in the Light of Republican
Institutions. By J.S.C. Abbott. With One Hundred Engravings. New York.
Harper & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 439. $2.50.

Popular Tales from the Norse. By George Webbe Dasent, D.C.L. With an
Introductory Essay on the Origin and Diffusion of Popular Tales. New
York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 379. $1.00.

Personal Recollections of the American Revolution. A Private Journal.
Prepared from Authentic Domestic Records. Together with Reminiscences of
Washington and Lafayette. Edited by Sidney Barclay. New York. Rudd &
Carleton. 12mo. pp. 251. $1.00.

Hartley Norman. A Tale of the Times. By Allen Hampden. New York. Rudd &
Carleton. 12mo. pp. 429. $1.25.

The Science of Education and Art of Teaching. In Two Parts. By John
Ogden, A.M. Cincinnati. Moore, Wilstach, & Keys. 12mo. pp. 478. $1.25.

Observations on the Growth of the Mind. By Sampson Reed. Fifth Edition.
Boston. Crosby, Nichols, & Co. 16mo. pp. 99. 50 cts.

Italy and the War of 1859. With Biographical Notices of Sovereigns,
Statesmen, and Military Commanders; Description and Statistics of the
Country; Causes of the War, etc. By Julia de Marguerittes. With an
Introduction, by Dr. R. Shelton Mackenzie. With Map and Portraits.
Philadelphia. Geo. G. Evans. 12mo. pp. 359. $1.25.

Here and Beyond; or, The New Man, the True Man. By Hugh Smith Carpenter.
New York. Mason Brothers. 12mo. pp. 345. $1.00.

Temper. A Novel. By Miss Marryatt. (Daughter of Captain Marryatt.) New
York. Dick and Fitzgerald. 12mo. pp. 365. $1.00.

Shelley Memorials: from Authentic Sources. Edited by Lady Shelley. To
which is added an Essay on Christianity, by Percy Bysshe Shelley: now
first Printed. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 308. 75 cts.

Sparks from a Locomotive; or, Life and Liberty in Europe. By the Author
of "Belle Brittan." New York. Derby & Jackson. 12mo. pp. 305. $1.00.

The Life of General Garibaldi. Written by Himself. With Sketches of his
Companions in Arms. Translated by his Friend and Admirer, Theodore
Dwight. Embellished with a Fine Portrait, engraved on Steel. New York.
A.S. Barnes & Burr. 12mo. pp. 820. $1.00.

Ettore Fieramosca; or, The Challenge of Barletta. The Struggles of an
Italian against Foreign Invaders and Foreign Protectors. By Massimo
d'Azeglio. Boston. Phillips, Sampson, & Co. 16mo. pp. 356. $1.00.

Idyls of the King. By Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L., Poet Laureate. Boston.
Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 227. 75 cts.

Lectures for the People. By the Rev. Hugh Stowell Brown, of Liverpool.
First Series. With a Biographical Introduction, by Dr. Shelton
Mackenzie. Authorized Edition. Philadelphia. G.G. Evans. 12mo. pp. 414.
$1.26.

The Roman Question. Translated from the French of Edmund About, by Mrs.
Annie T. Wood. Edited, with an Introduction, by Rev. E.N. Kirk, D.D.
Boston. J.E. Tilton & Co. 16mo. pp. 308. 60 cts.

The Pilot. A Tale of the Sea. By J. Fenimore Cooper. Illustrated from
Drawings by F.O.C. Darley. New York. W.A. Townsend & Co. crown 8vo. pp.
486. $1.50.

The Mathematical Monthly for July and August. Cambridge. John Bartlett.

From Dawn to Daylight; or, The Simple Story of a Western Home. By a
Minister's Wife. New York. Derby & Jackson. 12mo. pp. 339. $1.00.

A System of Surgery; Pathological, Diagnostic, Therapeutic, and
Operative. By Samuel D. Gross, M.D., Professor of Surgery in the
Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia, etc. Illustrated by Nine
Hundred and Thirty-Six Illustrations, a Large Number of which are from
Original Drawings. Philadelphia. Blanchard & Lea. 2 vols. 8vo. pp. 1162,
1198. $12.00.