[NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the
file for those who may wish to sample the author's ideas before making an
entire meal of them.  D.W.]


THE MAY-FLOWER AND HER LOG

July 15, 1620--May 6, 1621
Chiefly from Original Sources

By AZEL AMES, M.D.
Member of Pilgrim Society, etc.


BOOK 6.


CHAPTER IX

THE JOURNAL OF THE SHIP MAY-FLOWER

Thomas Jones, Master, from London, England, towards "Hudson's River" in
Virginia

     [The voyage of the MAY-FLOWER began at London, as her consort's did
     at Delfshaven, and though, as incident to the tatter's brief career,
     we have been obliged to take note of some of the happenings to the
     larger ship and her company (at Southampton, etc.), out of due
     course and time, they have been recited only because of their
     insuperable relation to the consort and her company, and not as part
     of the MAY-FLOWER'S own proper record]


SATURDAY, July 15/25, 1620
                              Gravesend.  Finished lading.  Got
                              passengers aboard  and got under way for
                              Southampton.  Dropped down the Thames to
                              Gravesend with the tide.

     [Vessels leaving the port of London always, in that day, "dropped
     down with the tide," tug-boats being unknown, and sail-headway
     against the tide being difficult in the narrow river.]

                              Masters Cushman and Martin, agents of the
                              chartering--party, came aboard at London.

SUNDAY, July 16/26
                              Gravesend.  Channel pilot aboard.  Favoring
                              wind.

MONDAY, July 17/27
                              In Channel.  Course D.W. by W.  Favoring
                              wind.

TUESDAY, July 18/28
                              In Channel.  Southampton Water.

WEDNESDAY, July 19/29
                              Southampton Water.  Arrived at Southampton
                              and came to anchor.

     [Both ships undoubtedly lay at anchor a day or two, before hauling
     in to the quay.  The MAY-FLOWER undoubtedly lay at anchor until
     after the SPEEDWELL arrived, to save expense]

THURSDAY, July 20/30
                              Lying at Southampton off north end of "West
                              Quay."

FRIDAY, July 21/31
                              Lying at Southampton.  Masters Carver,
                              Cushman, and Martin, three of the agents
                              here.  Outfitting ship, taking in lading,
                              and getting ready for sea.

SATURDAY, July 22/Aug 1
                              Lying off Quay, Southampton.

SUNDAY, July 23/Aug 2
                              Lying off Quay, Southampton.

MONDAY, July 24/Aug 3
                              Lying off Quay, Southampton.

TUESDAY, July 25/Aug 4
                              Lying off Quay, Southampton.  Waiting for
                              consort to arrive from Holland.

WEDNESDAY, July 26/Aug 5
                              Lying off Quay, Southampton.  Pinnace
                              SPEEDWELL, 60 tons, Reynolds, Master, from
                              Delfshaven, July 22, consort to this ship,
                              arrived in harbor, having on board some 70
                              passengers and lading for Virginia.  She
                              came to anchor off north end "West Quay."

THURSDAY, July 27/Aug. 6
                              Lying at Quay, Southampton, SPEEDWELL
                              warped to berth at Quay near the ship, to
                              transfer lading.

     [Some of the cargo of the SPEEDWELL is understood to have been here
     transferred to the larger ship; doubtless the cheese, "Hollands,"
     and other provisions, ordered, as noted, by Cushman]

FRIDAY, July 28/Aug. 7
                              Lying at Quay, Southampton, Much parleying
                              and discontent among the passengers.

     [Bradford gives an account of the bickering and recrimination at
     Southampton, when all parties had arrived.  Pastor Robinson had
     rather too strenuously given instructions, which it now began to be
     seen were not altogether wise.  Cushman was very much censured, and
     there was evidently some acrimony.  See Cushman's Dartmouth letter
     of August 17 to Edward Southworth, Bradford's Historie, Mass. ed.
     p. 86.]

SATURDAY, July 29/Aug. 8
                              Lying at Quay, Southampton. Some of the
                              passengers transferred from SPEEDWELL and
                              some to her.  Master Christopher Martin
                              chosen by passengers their "Governour" for
                              the voyage to order them by the way, see to
                              the disposing of their pro visions, etc.
                              Master Robert Cushman chosen "Assistant."
                              The ship ready for sea this day, but
                              obliged to lie here on account of leakiness
                              of consort, which is forced to retrim. Ship
                              has now 90 passengers and consort 30.

SUNDAY, July 30/Aug. 9
                              Lying at Southampton.

MONDAY, July 31/Aug. 10
                              Lying at Southampton.  Letters received for
                              passengers from Holland.  One from the
                              Leyden Pastor [Robinson] read out to the
                              company that came from that place.

TUESDAY, Aug. 1/Aug. 11
                              Lying at anchor at Southampton.  SPEEDWELL
                              retrimmed a second time to overcome
                              leakiness.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 2/Aug. 12
                              Lying at anchor at Southampton. Master
                              Weston, principal agent of the Merchants
                              setting out the voyage, came up from Lon
                              don to see the ships dispatched,  but, on
                              the refusal of the Planters to sign certain
                              papers, took offence and returned to London
                              in displeasure, bidding them "stand on
                              their own legs," etc.

     [The two "conditions" which Weston had changed in the proposed
     agreement between the Adventurers and Planters, the Leyden leaders
     refused to agree to.  Bradford, op  cit.  p. 61.  He says: "But they
     refused to sign, and answered him that he knew right well that these
     were not according to the first Agreement."  Dr. Griffis has made
     one of those little slips common to all writers--though perfectly
     conversant with the facts--in stating as he does (The Pilgrims in
     their Three Homes, etc.  p.  158), with reference to the new
     "conditions" which some blamed Cushman for assenting to, as "more
     fit for thieves and slaves than for honest men," that, "nevertheless
     they consented to them;" while on p. 169 he says "The SPEEDWELL
     people [i.e.  the Leyden leaders would not agree with the new
     conditions, without the consent of those left behind in Leyden."

     The fact is that the Pilgrims did not assent to the new conditions,
     unwarrantably imposed by Weston, though of small consequence in any
     view of the case, until Cushman came over to New Plymouth in the
     FORTUNE, in 1621, and by dint of his sermon on the "Sin and Danger
     of Self-Love," and his persuasion, induced them (they being also
     advised thereto by Robinson) to sign them.  All business up to this
     time had been done between the Adventurers and the Pilgrims,
     apparently, without any agreement in writing.  It was probably felt,
     both by Robinson and the Plymouth leaders, that it was the least
     reparation they could make Cushman for their cruel and unjust
     treatment of him, realizing at length that, through all
     vicissitudes, he had proven their just, sagacious, faithful, and
     efficient friend.  There does not appear to be any conclusive
     evidence that any articles of agreement between the Adventurers and
     colonists were signed before the MAY-FLOWER Sailed.]

THURSDAY, Aug. 3/Aug. 13
                              Lying at anchor at Southampton.  After
                              Master Weston's departure, the Planters had
                              a meeting and resolved to sell some of such
                              stores as they could best spare, to clear
                              port charges, etc., and to write a general
                              letter to the Adventurers explaining the
                              case, which they did.  Landed some three
                              score firkins of butter,  sold as
                              determined.

FRIDAY, Aug. 4/Aug. 14
                              Lying at anchor at Southampton.  Consort
                              nearly ready for sea.  Heard that the
                              King's warrant had issued to Sir James
                              Coventry, under date of July 23, to prepare
                              a Patent for the Council for the Affairs of
                              New England to supersede the Plymouth
                              Virginia Company, Sir Ferdinando Gorges and
                              Sir Robert Rich the Earl of Warwick among
                              the Patentees.

SATURDAY, Aug. 5/Aug. 15
                              Weighed anchor, as did consort, and in
                              company dropped down Southampton Water.
                              Took departure from Cowes, Isle of Wight,
                              and laid course down the Solent to Channel.
                              Winds baffling. General course S.W. by S.

SUNDAY, Aug. 6/Aug. 16
                              Head winds.  Beating out Channel.
                              SPEEDWELL In Company.  Passed Bill of
                              Portland.

MONDAY, Aug. 7/Aug. 17
                              Wind contrary.  Beating out Channel.
                              SPEEDWELL In company.

TUESDAY, Aug. 8/Aug. 18
                              Wind still contrary.  Beating out Channel.
                              SPEEDWELL in company.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 9/Aug. 19
                              Wind ahead.  Beating down Channel.  Consort
                              in company.

THURSDAY, Aug. 10/20
                              Wind fair.  All sail set.  SPEEDWELL in
                              company.  Signalled by consort, which hove
                              to.  Found to be leaking badly. On
                              consultation of Masters and chief of
                              passengers of both ships, it was concluded
                              that both should put into Dartmouth, being
                              nearest port.  Laid course for Dartmouth
                              with wind ahead.

THURSDAY, Aug. 11/21
                              Wind ahead.  Bearing up to Dartmouth.

SATURDAY, Aug. 12/22
                              Made port at Dartmouth.  SPEEDWELL in
                              company, and came to anchor in harbor.

     [Bradford, op. cit.  Deane's ed. p. 68, note.  Russell (Pilgrim
     Memorials, p. 15) says: "The ships put back into Dartmouth, August
     13/23."  Goodwin (op. cit.  p. 55) says: "The port was reached
     about August 23:  Captain John Smith strangely omits the return of
     the ships to Dartmouth, and confuses dates, as he says "But the next
     day after leaving Southampton the lesser ship sprung a leak that
     forced their return to Plymouth," etc.  Smith, New England's Trials,
     2d ed.  1622.  Cushman's letter, written the 17th, says they had
     then lain there "four days," which would mean, if four full days,
     the 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th.]

SUNDAY, Aug. 13/23
                              Lying at anchor with SPEEDWELL leaking
                              badly in Dartmouth harbor.  No passengers,
                              except leaders, allowed ashore.

     [Cushman in his letter to Edward Southworth, written at Dartmouth,
     August 17, says that Martin, the "governour" of the passengers in
     the MAY-FLOWER, "will not suffer them the passengers to go, ashore
     lest they should run away."  This probably applied especially to
     such as had become disaffected by the delays and disasters, the
     apprenticed ("bound") servants, etc.  Of course no responsible
     colonist would be thus restrained for the reason alleged.]

MONDAY, Aug. 14/24
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.
                              SPEEDWELL at Quay taking out lading for
                              thorough overhauling.

TUESDAY, Aug. 15/25
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 16/26
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.
                              SPEEDWELL being thoroughly overhauled for
                              leaks.  Pronounced "as open and leaky as a
                              sieve."  Much dissatisfaction between the
                              passengers, and discontent with the ship's
                              "governour" Master Martin, between whom
                              and Mr. Cushman, the "assistant," there is
                              constant disagreement.

     [Cushman portrays the contemptible character and manner of Martin
     very sharply, and could not have wished to punish him worse for his
     meannesses than he has, by thus holding him up to the scorn of the
     world, for all time.  He says, 'inter alia': "If I speak to him, he
     flies in my face and saith no complaints shall be heard or received
     but by himself, and saith: 'They are froward, and waspish,
     discontented people, and I do ill to hear them.'"]

THURSDAY, Aug. 17/27
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.  Consort
                              being searched and mended. Sailors offended
                              at Master Martin because of meddling.

     [Cushman's letter, Dartmouth, August 17.  He says: "The sailors also
     are so offended at his ignorant boldness in meddling and controling
     in things he knows not what belongs to, as that some threaten to
     mischief him .  .  .  .  But at best this cometh of it, that he
     makes himself a scorn and laughing stock unto them."]

FRIDAY, Aug. 18/28
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.  Consort
                              still repairing.  Judged by workmen that
                              mended her sufficient for the voyage.

SATURDAY, Aug. 19/29
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.
                              SPEEDWELL relading.

SUNDAY, Aug. 20/30
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor.

MONDAY, Aug. 21/31
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor. Consort
                              relading.

TUESDAY, Aug. 22/Sept. 1
                              Lying at anchor, Dartmouth harbor. Both
                              ships ready for sea.

     [Bradford, Historie, Deane's ed.  p. 68.  He says: "Some leaks were
     found and mended and now it was conceived by the workmen and all,
     that she was sufficient, and they might proceed without either fear
     or danger."  Bradford shows (op. cit.  p. 69, note that they must
     have left Dartmouth "about the 21st" of August.  Captain John Smith
     gives that date, though somewhat confusedly.  Arber (the Story of
     the Pilgrim Fathers, p. 343 says: "They actually left on 23 August."
     Goodwin (Pilgrim Republic, p. 55) says : "Ten days were spent in
     discharging and re-stowing the SPEEDWELL and repairing her from stem
     to stern," etc.)]

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 23/Sept. 2
                              Weighed anchor, as did consort.  Laid
                              course W.S.W.  Ships in company.  Wind
                              fair.

THURSDAY, Aug. 24/Sept. 3
                              Comes in with wind fair.  General course
                              W.S.W.  Consort in company.

FRIDAY, Aug. 25/Sept. 4
                              Comes in with wind fair.  Course W.S.W.
                              SPEEDWELL in company.

SATURDAY, Aug. 26/Sept. 5
                              Observations showed ship above 100 leagues
                              W.S.W.  of Land's End.  SPEEDWELL signalled
                              and hove to.  Reported leaking dangerously.
                              On consultation between Masters and
                              carpenters of both ships, it was concluded
                              to put back into Plymouth--Bore up for
                              Plymouth.  Consort in company.

SUNDAY, Aug. 27/Sept. 6
                              Ship on course for Plymouth.  SPEEDWELL in
                              company.

MONDAY, Aug. 28/Sept. 7
                              Made Plymouth harbor, and came to anchor in
                              the Catwater, followed by consort.

TUESDAY, Aug. 29/Sept. 8
                              At anchor in roadstead.  At conference of
                              officers of ship and consort and the chief
                              of the Planters, it was decided to send the
                              SPEEDWELL back to London with some 18 or 20
                              of her passengers, transferring a dozen or
                              more, with part of her lading, to the MAY-
                              FLOWER.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 30/Sept. 9
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead off the
                              Barbican.  Transferring passengers and
                              lading from consort, lying near by.
                              Weather fine.

     [Goodwin notes (Pilgrim Republic, p. 57) that "it was fortunate for
     the overloaded MAY-FLOWER that she had fine weather while lying at
     anchor there, .  .  .  for the port of Plymouth was then only a
     shallow, open bay, with no protection.  In southwesterly gales its
     waters rose into enormous waves, with such depressions between that
     ships while anchored sometimes struck the bottom of the harbor and
     were dashed in pieces."]

THURSDAY, Aug. 31/Sept. 10
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead.
                              Transferring cargo from SPEEDWELL.

FRIDAY, Sept. 1/Sept. 11
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead.
                              Transferring passengers and freight to and
                              from consort.  Master Cushman and family,
                              Master Blossom and son, William Ring, and
                              others with children, going back to London
                              in SPEEDWELL.  All Of SPEEDWELL'S
                              passengers who are to make the voyage now
                              aboard.  New "governour" of ship and
                              assistants chosen. Master Carver
                              "governour."

     [We have seen that Christopher Martin was made "governour" of the
     passengers on the MAY-FLOWER for the voyage, and Cushman
     "assistant."  It is evident from Cushman's oft-quoted letter (see
     ante) that Martin became obnoxious, before the ship reached
     Dartmouth, to both passengers and crew.  It is also evident that
     when the emigrants were all gathered in the MAY-FLOWER there was a
     new choice of officers (though no record is found of it), as Cushman
     vacated his place and went back to London, and we find that, as
     noted before, on November 11 the colonists "confirmed" John Carver
     as their "governour," showing that he had been such hitherto.
     Doubtless Martin was deposed at Southampton (perhaps put into
     Cushman's vacant place, and Carver made "governour" in his stead.)]

SATURDAY, Sept. 2/Sept. 12
                              At anchor, Plymouth roadstead.  Some of
                              principal passengers entertained ashore by
                              friends of their faith.  SPEEDWELL sailed
                              for London.  Quarters assigned, etc.

SUNDAY, Sept. 3/Sept. 13
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead.

MONDAY, Sept. 4/Sept. 14
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead.  Some Of
                              company ashore.

TUESDAY, Sept. 5/Sept. 15
                              At anchor in Plymouth roadstead.  Ready for
                              sea.

WEDNESDAY, Sept. 6/Sept. 16
                              Weighed anchor.  Wind E.N.E., a fine gale.
                              Laid course W.S.W.  for northern coasts of
                              Virginia.

THURSDAY, Sept. 7/Sept. 17
                              Comes in with wind E.N.E.  Light gale
                              continues.  Made all sail on ship.

FRIDAY, Sept. 8/Sept. 18
                              Comes in with wind E.N.E.  Gale continues.
                              All sails full.

SATURDAY, Sept. 9/Sept. 19
                              Comes in with wind E.N E.  Gale holds.
                              Ship well off the land.

SUNDAY, Sept. 10/Sept. 20
                              Comes in with wind E.N.E.  Gale holds.
                              Distance lost, when ship bore up for
                              Plymouth, more than regained.

MONDAY, Sept. 11/Sept. 21
                              Same; and so without material change, the
                              daily record of wind, weather, and the
                              ship's general course--the repetition of
                              which would be both useless and wearisome--
                              continued through the month and until the
                              vessel was near half the seas over.  Fine
                              warm weather and the "harvest-moon."  The
                              usual equinoctial weather deferred.

SATURDAY, Sept. 23/Oct. 3
                              One of the seamen, some time sick with a
                              grievous disease, died in a desperate manner.
                              The first death and burial at sea of the
                              voyage.

     [We can readily imagine this first burial at sea on the MAY FLOWER,
     and its impressiveness.  Doubtless the good Elder "committed the
     body to the deep" with fitting ceremonial, for though the young man
     was of the crew, and not of the Pilgrim company, his reverence for
     death and the last rites of Christian burial would as surely impel
     him to offer such services, as the rough, buccaneering Master (Jones
     would surely be glad to evade them).

     Dr. Griffis (The Pilgrims in their Three Homes, p. 176) says "The
     Puritans [does this mean Pilgrims ?] cared next to nothing about
     ceremonies over a corpse, whether at wave or grave."  This will
     hardly bear examination, though Bradford's phraseology in this case
     would seem to support it, as he speaks of the body as "thrown
     overboard;" yet it is not to be supposed that it was treated quite
     so indecorously as the words would imply.  It was but a few years
     after, certainly, that we find both Pilgrim and Puritan making much
     ceremony at burials.  We find considerable ceremony at Carver's
     burial only a few months later.  Choate, in his masterly oration at
     New York, December 22, 1863, pictures Brewster's service at the open
     grave of one of the Pilgrims in March, 1621.]

                              A sharp change.  Equinoctial weather,
                              followed by stormy westerly gales;
                              encountered cross winds and continued
                              fierce storms.  Ship shrewdly shaken and
                              her upper works made very leaky.  One of
                              the main beams in the midships was bowed
                              and cracked.  Some fear that the ship could
                              not be able to perform the voyage.  The
                              chief of the company perceiving the
                              mariners to fear the sufficiency of the
                              ship (as appeared by their mutterings) they
                              entered into serious consultation with the
                              Master and other officers of the ship, to
                              consider, in time, of the danger, and
                              rather to return than to cast themselves
                              into a desperate and inevitable peril.

                              There was great distraction and difference
                              of opinion amongst the mariners themselves.
                              Fain would they do what would be done for
                              their wages' sake, being now near half the
                              seas over; on the other hand, they were
                              loath to hazard their lives too
                              desperately. In examining of all opinions,
                              the Master and others affirmed they knew
                              the ship to be strong and firm under water,
                              and for the buckling bending or bowing of
                              the main beam, there was a great iron scrue
                              the passengers brought out of Holland which
                              would raise the beam into its place.  The
                              which being done, the carpenter and Master
                              affirmed that a post put under it, set firm
                              in the lower deck, and otherwise bound,
                              would make it sufficient.  As for the decks
                              and upper works, they would caulk them as
                              well as they could; and though with the
                              working of the ship they would not long
                              keep staunch, yet there would otherwise be
                              no great danger if they did not overpress
                              her with sails.  So they resolved to
                              proceed.

                              In sundry of these stormes, the winds were
                              so fierce and the seas so high, as the ship
                              could not bear a knot of sail, but was
                              forced to hull drift under bare poles for
                              divers days together.  A succession of
                              strong westerly gales.  In one of the
                              heaviest storms, while lying at hull, [hove
                              to  D.W.] a lusty young man, one of the
                              passengers, John Howland by name, coming
                              upon some occasion above the gratings
                              latticed covers to the hatches, was with
                              the seel [roll] of the ship thrown into the
                              sea, but caught hold of the topsail
                              halliards, which hung overboard and ran out
                              at length; yet he held his hold, though he
                              was sundry fathoms under water, till he was
                              hauled up by the same rope to the brim of
                              the water, and then with a boathook and
                              other means got into the ship again and his
                              life saved.  He was something ill with it.

                              The equinoctial disturbances over and the
                              strong October gales, the milder, warmer
                              weather of late October followed.

                              Mistress Elizabeth Hopkins, wife of Master
                              Stephen Hopkins, of Billericay, in Essex,
                              was delivered of a son, who, on account of
                              the circumstances of his birth, was named
                              Oceanus, the first birth aboard the ship
                              during the voyage.

                              A succession of fine days, with favoring
                              winds.

MONDAY Nov. 6/16
                              William Butten; a youth, servant to Doctor
                              Samuel Fuller, died.  The first of the
                              passengers to die on this voyage.

MONDAY Nov. 7/17
                              The body of William Butten committed to the
                              deep.  The first burial at sea of a
                              passenger, on this voyage.

MONDAY Nov. 8/18
                              Signs of land.

MONDAY Nov. 9/19
                              Closing in with the land at nightfall.
                              Sighted land at daybreak.  The landfall
                              made out to be Cape Cod the bluffs [in what
                              is now the town of Truro, Mass.].  After a
                              conference between the Master of the ship
                              and the chief colonists, tacked about and
                              stood for the southward.  Wind and weather
                              fair.  Made our course S.S.W., continued
                              proposing to go to a river ten leagues
                              south of the Cape Hudson's River.  After
                              had sailed that course about half the day
                              fell amongst dangerous shoals and foaming
                              breakers [the shoals off Monomoy] got out of
                              them before night and the wind being
                              contrary  put round again for the Bay of
                              Cape Cod.  Abandoned efforts to go further
                              south and so announced to passengers.

     [Bradford (Historie, Mass.  ed. p. 93) says: "They resolved to bear
     up again for the Cape."  No one will question that Jones's assertion
     of inability to proceed, and his announced determination to return
     to Cape Cod harbor, fell upon many acquiescent ears, for, as Winslow
     says: "Winter was come; the seas were dangerous; the season was
     cold; the winds were high, and the region being well furnished for a
     plantation, we entered upon discovery."  Tossed for sixty-seven days
     on the north Atlantic at that season of the year, their food and
     firing well spent, cold, homesick, and ill, the bare thought of once
     again setting foot on any land, wherever it might be, must have been
     an allurement that lent Jones potential aid in his high-handed
     course.]

SATURDAY Nov. 11/21
                              Comes in with light, fair wind.  On course
                              for Cape Cod harbor, along the coast.  Some
                              hints of disaffection among colonists, on
                              account of abandonment of location

     [Bradford (in Mourt's Relation) says: "This day before we come to
     harbor Italics the author's, observing some not well affected to
     unity and concord, but gave some appearance of faction, it was
     thought good there should be an Association and Agreement that we
     should combine together in one body; and to submit to such
     Government and Governors as we should, by common consent, agree to
     make and choose, and set our hands to this that follows word for
     word."  Then follows the Compact. Bradford is even more explicit in
     his Historie (Mass. ed.  p. 109), where he says: "I shall a little
     returne backe and begin with a combination made by them before they
     came ashore, being ye first foundation of their governments in this
     place; occasioned partly by ye discontent & mutinous speeches that
     some of the strangers amongst them [i.e.  not any of the Leyden
     contingent had let fall from them in ye ship--That when they came
     ashore they would use their owne libertie: for none had power to
     command them, the patents they had being for Virginia, and not for
     New-England which belonged to another Government, with which ye
     London [or First Virginia Company had nothing to doe, and partly
     that such an acte by them done .  .  .  might be as firm as any
     patent, and in some respects more sure."  Dr. Griffis is hardly
     warranted in making Bradford to say, as he does (The Pilgrims in
     their Three Homes, p. 182), that "there were a few people I
     'shuffled' in upon them the company who were probably unmitigated
     scoundrels."  Bradford speaks only of Billington and his family as
     those "shuffled into their company," and while he was not improbably
     one of the agitators (with Hopkins) who were the proximate causes of
     the drawing up of the Compact, he was not, in this case, the
     responsible leader. It is evident from the foregoing that the
     "appearance of faction" did not show itself until the vessel's prow
     was turned back toward Cape Cod Harbor, and it became apparent that
     the effort to locate "near Hudson's River" was to be abandoned, and
     a location found north of 41 degrees north latitude, which would
     leave them without charter rights or authority of any kind.  It is
     undoubtedly history that Master Stephen Hopkins,--then "a lay-
     reader" for Chaplain Buck,--on Sir Thomas Gates's expedition to
     Virginia, had, when some of them were cast away on the Bermudas,
     advocated just such sentiments--on the same basis--as were now
     bruited upon the MAY-FLOWER, and it could hardly have been
     coincidence only that the same were repeated here.  That Hopkins
     fomented the discord is well-nigh certain.  It caused him, as
     elsewhere noted, to receive sentence of death for insubordination,
     at the hands of Sir Thomas Gates, in the first instance, from which
     his pardon was with much difficulty procured by his friends.  In the
     present case, it led to the drafting and execution of the Pilgrim
     Compact, a framework of civil self-government whose fame will never
     die; though the author is in full accord with Dr. Young (Chronicles,
     p. 120) in thinking that "a great deal more has been discovered in
     this document than the signers contemplated,"--wonderfully
     comprehensive as it is.  Professor Herbert B. Adams, of Johns
     Hopkins University, says in his admirable article in the Magazine of
     American History, November, 1882 (pp--798 799): "The fundamental
     idea of this famous document was that of a contract based upon the
     common law of England,"--certainly a stable and ancient basis of
     procedure.  Their Dutch training (as Griffis points out) had also
     led naturally to such ideas of government as the Pilgrims adopted.
     It is to be feared that Griffis's inference (The Pilgrims in their
     Three Homes, p. 184), that all who signed the Compact could write,
     is unwarranted.  It is more than probable that if the venerated
     paper should ever be found, it would show that several of those
     whose names are believed to have been affixed to it "made their
     'mark.'"  There is good reason, also, to believe that neither
     "sickness" (except unto death) nor "indifference" would have
     prevented the ultimate obtaining of the signatures (by "mark," if
     need be) of every one of the nine male servants who did not
     subscribe, if they were considered eligible.  Severe illness was, we
     know, answerable for the absence of a few, some of whom died a few
     days later.

     The fact seems rather to be, as noted, that age--not social status
     was the determining factor as to all otherwise eligible.  It is
     evident too, that the fact was recognized by all parties (by none so
     clearly as by Master Jones) that they were about to plant themselves
     on territory not within the jurisdiction of their steadfast friends,
     the London Virginia Company, but under control of those formerly of
     the Second (Plymouth) Virginia Company, who (by the intelligence
     they received while at Southampton) they knew would be erected into
     the "Council for the Affairs of New England."  Goodwin is in error
     in saying (Pilgrim Republic, p. 62), "Neither did any other body
     exercise authority there;" for the Second Virginia Company under Sir
     Ferdinando Gorges, as noted, had been since 1606 in control of this
     region, and only a week before the Pilgrims landed at Cape Cod (i.e.
     on November 3) King James had signed the patent of the Council for
     New England, giving them full authority over all territory north of
     the forty-first parallel of north latitude, as successors to the
     Second Virginia Company. If the intention to land south of the
     forty-first parallel had been persisted in, there would, of course,
     have been no occasion for the Compact, as the patent to John Pierce
     (in their interest) from the London Virginia Company would have been
     in force.  The Compact became a necessity, therefore, only when they
     turned northward to make settlement above 41 deg. north latitude.
     Hence it is plain that as no opportunity for "faction"--and so no
     occasion for any "Association and Agreement"--existed till the MAY-
     FLOWER turned northward, late in the afternoon of Friday, November
     to, the Compact was not drawn and presented for signature until the
     morning of Saturday, November 11.  Bradford's language, "This day,
     before we came into harbour," leaves no room for doubt that it was
     rather hurriedly drafted--and also signed--before noon of the 11th.
     That they had time on this winter Saturday--hardly three weeks from
     the shortest day in the year--to reach and encircle the harbor;
     secure anchorage; get out boats; arm, equip, and land two companies
     of men; make a considerable march into the land; cut firewood; and
     get all aboard again before dark, indicates that they must have made
     the harbor not far from noon.  These facts serve also to correct
     another error of traditional Pilgrim history, which has been
     commonly current, and into which Davis falls (Ancient Landmarks of
     Plymouth, p. 60), viz.  that the Compact was signed "in the harbor
     of Cape Cod."  It is noticeable that the instrument itself simply
     says, "Cape Cod," not "Cape Cod harbour," as later they were wont to
     say.  The leaders clearly did not mean to get to port till there was
     a form of law and authority.]

                              for settlement on territory under the
                              protection of the patent granted in their
                              interest to John Pierce, by the London
                              Virginia Company.

     [The patent granted John Pierce, one of the Merchant Adventurers,
     by the London Virginia Company in the interest of the Pilgrims,
     was signed February 2/12, 1619, and of course could convey no rights
     to, or upon, territory not conveyed to the Company by its charter
     from the King issued in 1606, and the division of territory made
     thereunder to the Second Virginia Company.  By this division the
     London Company was restricted northward by the 41st parallel, as
     noted, while the Second Company could not claim the 38th as its
     southern bound, as the charter stipulated that the nearest
     settlements under the respective companies should not be within one
     hundred miles of each other.]

                              Meeting in main cabin of all adult male
                              passengers except their two hired seamen,
                              Trevore and Ely, and those too ill--to make
                              and sign a mutual 'Compact"

     [The Compact is too well known to require reprinting here (see
     Appendix); but a single clause of it calls for comment in this
     connection.  In it the framers recite that, "Having undertaken to
     plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia," etc.
     From this phraseology it would appear that they here used the words
     "northern parts of Virginia" understandingly, and with a new
     relation and significance, from their connection with the words "the
     first colony in," for such declaration could have no force or truth
     except as to the region north of 41 deg. north latitude.  They knew,
     of course, of the colonies in Virginia under Gates, Wingfield,
     Smith, Raleigh, and others (Hopkins having been with Gates), and
     that, though there had been brief attempts at settlements in the
     "northern plantations," there were none there then, and that hence
     theirs would be in a sense "the first," especially if considered
     with reference to the new Council for New England.  The region of
     the Hudson had heretofore been included in the term "northern parts
     of Virginia," although in the southern Company's limit; but a new
     meaning was now designedly given to the words as used in the
     Compact, and New England was contemplated. ]

                              to regulate their civil government.  This
                              done, they confirmed Master Carver their
                              "governour" in the ship on the voyage,
                              their "governour" for the year.  Bore up
                              for the Cape, and by short tacks made the
                              Cape [Paomet, now Provincetown] Harbor,
                              coming to an anchorage a furlong within the
                              point.  The bay so circular that before
                              coming to anchor the ship boxed the compass
                              [i.e.  went clear around all points of it].

                              Let go anchors three quarters of an English
                              mile off shore, because of shallow water,
                              sixty-seven days from Plymouth (Eng.),
                              eighty-one days from Dartmouth, ninety-nine
                              days from Southampton, and one hundred and
                              twenty from London.  Got out the long-boat
                              and set ashore an armed party of fifteen or
                              sixteen in armor, and some to fetch wood,
                              having none left, landing them on the long
                              point or neck, toward the sea.

     [The strip of land now known as Long Point, Provincetown (Mass.)
     harbor.]
                              Those going ashore were forced to wade a
                              bow-shot or two in going aland.  The party
                              sent ashore returned at night having seen
                              no person or habitation, having laded the
                              boat with juniper wood.

SUNDAY, Nov. 12/22
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  All hands
                              piped to service.  Weather mild.

MONDAY, Nov. 13/23
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor, unshipped the
                              shallop and drew her on land to mend and
                              repair her.

     [Bradford (Historie, Mass. ed. p. 97) says: "Having brought a large
     shallop with them out of England, stowed in quarters in ye ship they
     now gott her out and sett their carpenters to worke to trime her up:
     but being much brused and shatered in ye ship with foule weather,
     they saw she sould be longe in mending."  In 'Mourt's Relation' he
     says: "Monday, the 13th of November, we unshipped our shallop and
     drew her on land to mend and repair her, having been forced to cut
     her down, in bestowing her betwixt the decks, and she was much
     opened, with the peoples lying in her, which kept us long there: for
     it was sixteen or seventeen days before the Carpenter had finished
     her."  Goodwin says she was "a sloop-rigged craft of twelve or
     fifteen tons."  There is an intimation of Bradford that she was
     "about thirty feet long."  It is evident from Bradford's account
     (Historie, Mass. ed. p. 105) of her stormy entrance to Plymouth
     harbor that the shallop had but one mast, as he says "But herewith
     they broake their mast in 3 pieces and their saill fell overboard in
     a very grown sea."]


                              Many went ashore to refresh themselves, and
                              the women to wash.

TUESDAY, Nov. 14/24
                              Lying at anchor.  Carpenter at work on
                              shallop.  Arms and accoutrements being got
                              ready for an exploring party inland.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 15/25
                              Lying at anchor in harbor.  Master and
                              boat's crew went ashore, followed in the
                              afternoon by an armed party of sixteen men
                              under command of Captain Myles Standish.
                              Masters William Bradford, Stephen Hopkins,
                              and Edward Tilley being joined to him for
                              council.  The party to be gone from the
                              ship a day or two. Weather mild and ground
                              not frozen.

THURSDAY, Nov. 16/26
                              Lying at anchor in harbor.  Exploring party
                              still absent from ship.  Weather continues
                              open.

FRIDAY, Nov. 17/27
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Weather open.
                              Saw signal-fire on the other side of bay
                              this morning, built by exploring party as
                              arranged.  The Master, Governor Carver, and
                              many of the company ashore in afternoon,
                              and met exploring party there on their
                              return to ship.  Hearing their signal-guns
                              before they arrived at the shore, sent
                              long-boat to fetch them aboard.  They
                              reported seeing Indians and following them
                              ten miles without coming up to them the
                              first afternoon out, and the next day found
                              store of corn buried, and a big ship's
                              kettle, which they brought to the ship with
                              much corn.  Also saw deer and found
                              excellent water.

SATURDAY, Nov. 18/28
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Planters
                              helving tools, etc.  Carpenter at work on
                              shallop, which takes more labor than at
                              first supposed.  Weather still moderate.
                              Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Nov. 19/29
                              At anchor, Gape Cod harbor.  Second Sunday
                              in harbor.  Services aboard ship.  Seamen
                              ashore.  Change in weather. Colder.

MONDAY, Nov. 20/30
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter and
                              others at work on shallop, getting out
                              stock for a new shallop, helving tools,
                              making articles needed, etc.

TUESDAY, Nov. 21/Dec. 1
                              At anchor in harbor.  Much inconvenienced
                              in going ashore.  Can only go and come at
                              high water except by wading, from which
                              many have taken coughs and colds.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 22/Dec. 2
                              At anchor in harbor.  Weather cold and
                              stormy, having changed suddenly.

THURSDAY, Nov. 23/Dec. 3
                              At anchor in harbor.  Cold and stormy.
                              Work progressing on shallop.

FRIDAY, Nov. 24/Dec. 4
                              At anchor in harbor.  Continues cold and
                              stormy.

SATURDAY, Nov. 25/Dec. 5
                              At anchor in harbor.  Weather same.  Work
                              on shallop pretty well finished and she can
                              be used, though more remains to be done.
                              Another exploration getting ready for
                              Monday.  Master and crew anxious to unlade
                              and return for England.  Fetched wood and
                              water.

SUNDAY, Nov. 26/Dec. 6
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Third Sunday
                              here.  Master notified Planters that they
                              must find permanent location and that he
                              must and would keep sufficient supplies for
                              ship's company and their return.

     [Bradford, Historie, Mass.  ed. p. 96.  The doubt as to how the
     ship's and the colonists' provisions were divided and held is again
     suggested here.  It is difficult, however, to understand how the
     Master "must and would" retain provisions with his small force
     against the larger, if it came to an issue of strength between Jones
     and Standish.]

MONDAY, Nov. 27/Dec. 7
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Rough weather
                              and cross winds.  The Planters determined
                              to send out a strong exploring party, and
                              invited the Master of the ship to join them
                              and go as leader, which he agreed continued
                              to, and offered nine of the crew and the
                              long-boat, which were accepted.  Of the
                              colonists there were four-and-twenty,
                              making the party in all four-and-thirty.
                              Wind so strong that setting out from the
                              ship the shallop and long-boat were obliged
                              to row to the nearest shore and the men to
                              wade above the knees to land.  The wind
                              proved so strong that the shallop was
                              obliged to harbor where she landed.  Mate
                              in charge of ship.  Blowed and snowed all
                              day and at night, and froze withal.
                              Mistress White delivered of a son which is
                              called "Peregrine."  The second child born
                              on the voyage, the first in this harbor.

TUESDAY, Nov. 28/Dec. 8
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Cold.  Master
                              Jones and exploring party absent on shore
                              with long-boat and colonists' shallop.  The
                              latter, which beached near ship yesterday
                              in a strong wind and harbored there last
                              night, got under way this morning and
                              sailed up the harbor, following the course
                              taken by the long-boat yesterday, the wind
                              favoring.  Six inches of snow fell
                              yesterday and last night.  Crew at work
                              clearing snow from ship.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 29/Dec. 9
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Cold. Foul
                              weather threatening.  Master Jones with
                              sixteen men in the long-boat and shallop
                              came aboard towards night (eighteen men
                              remaining ashore), bringing also about ten
                              bushels of Indian corn which had been found
                              buried.  The Master reports a long march,
                              the exploration of two creeks, great
                              numbers of wild fowl, the finding of much
                              corn and beans,' etc.

     [This seems to be the first mention of beans (in early Pilgrim
     literature) as indigenous (presumably) to New England.  They have
     held an important place in her dietary ever since.]

THURSDAY, Nov. 30/Dec. 10
                              At anchor in harbor.  Sent shallop to head
                              of harbor with mattocks and spades, as
                              desired by those ashore, the seamen taking
                              their muskets also.  The shallop came
                              alongside at nightfall with the rest of the
                              explorers--the tide being out--bringing a
                              lot of Indian things, baskets, pottery,
                              wicker-ware, etc., discovered in two graves
                              and sundry Indian houses they found after
                              the Master left them.  They report ground
                              frozen a foot deep.

FRIDAY, Dec. 1/11
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter
                              finishing work on shallop. Colonists
                              discussing locations visited, as places for
                              settlement.

SATURDAY, Dec. 2/12
                              At anchor in harbor.  Much discussion among
                              colonists as to settlement, the Master
                              insisting on a speedy determination.
                              Whales playing about the ship in
                              considerable numbers.  One lying within
                              half a musket-shot of the ship, two of the
                              Planters shot at her, but the musket of the
                              one who gave fire first blew in pieces both
                              stock and barrel, yet no one was hurt.
                              Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Dec. 3/13
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  The fourth
                              Sunday here.  Scarce any of those aboard
                              free from vehement coughs, some very ill.
                              Weather very variable.

MONDAY, Dec. 4/14
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  Carpenter
                              completing repairs on shallop. Much
                              discussion of plans for settlement.  The
                              Master urging that the Planters should
                              explore with their shallop at some
                              distance, declining in such season to stir
                              from the present anchorage till a safe
                              harbor is discovered by them where they
                              would be and he might go without danger.
                              This day died Edward Thompson, a servant of
                              Master William White, the first to die
                              aboard the ship since she anchored in the
                              harbor.  Burying-party sent ashore after
                              services to bury him.

TUESDAY, Dec. 5/15
                              At anchor in harbor.  Francis Billington, a
                              young son of one of the passengers, put the
                              ship and all in great jeopardy, by shooting
                              off a fowling-piece in his father's cabin
                              between decks where there was a small
                              barrel of powder open, and many people
                              about the fire close by.  None hurt.
                              Weather cold and foul.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 6/16
                              At anchor in harbor.  Very cold, bad
                              weather.  This day died Jasper More, a lad
                              bound to Governor Carver.  The second death
                              in the harbor.  The third exploring party
                              got away from the ship in the afternoon in
                              the shallop, intent on finding a harbor
                              recommended by the second mate, Robert
                              Coppin, who had visited it.  Captain
                              Standish in command, with whom were
                              Governor Carver, Masters Bradford, Winslow,
                              John Tilley and Edward Tilley, Warren and
                              Hopkins, John Howland, Edward Dotey, and
                              two of the colonists' seamen, Alderton and
                              English, and of the ship's company, the
                              mates Clarke and Coppin, the master-gunner
                              and three sailors, eighteen in all.  The
                              shallop was a long time getting clear of
                              the point, having to row, but at last got
                              up her sails and out of the harbor.  Sent
                              burying-party ashore with body of little
                              More boy, after services aboard.

THURSDAY, Dec. 7/17
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  This day
                              Mistress Dorothy Bradford, wife of Master
                              Bradford, who is away with the exploring
                              party to the westward, fell over board and
                              was drowned.

FRIDAY, Dec. 8/18
                              At anchor in harbor.  A strong south-east
                              gale with heavy rain, turning to snow and
                              growing cold toward night, as it cleared.
                              This day Master James Chilton died aboard
                              the ship.  The third passenger, and first
                              head of a family; to die in this harbor.

SATURDAY, Dec. 9/19
                              At anchor in harbor.  Burying-party sent
                              ashore after services aboard, to bury
                              Chilton.  Fetched wood and water.


     [The death of Chilton was the first of the head of a family, and it
     may readily be imagined that the burial was an especially affecting
     scene, especially as following so closely upon the tragic death of
     Mrs. Bradford (for whom no funeral or burial arrangements are
     mentioned??  D.W.)]

SUNDAY, Dec. 10/20
                              At anchor in Cape Cod harbor.  The fifth
                              Sunday in this harbor.  The exploring party
                              still absent.  Four deaths one by drowning;
                              very severe weather; the ship's narrow
                              escape from being blown up; and the absence
                              of so many of the principal men, have made
                              it a hard, gloomy week.

MONDAY, Dec. 11/21
                              At anchor in harbor.  Clear weather.

TUESDAY, Dec. 12/22
                              At anchor in harbor.  Exploration party
                              still absent.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 13/23
                              At anchor in harbor.  Exploration party
                              returned to ship, where much sad
                              intelligence met them (especially Master
                              Bradford), as to his wife's drowning.  The
                              exploring party report finding a
                              considerable Indian burying-place; several
                              Indian houses; a fierce attack on them by
                              Indians on Friday morning, but without
                              harm; a severe gale on the same afternoon,
                              in which their rudder-hinges broke,  their
                              mast was split in three pieces, their sail
                              fell over board in a heavy sea, and they
                              were like to have been cast away in making
                              a harbor which Master Coppin thought he
                              knew, but was deceived about.  They landed
                              on an island at the mouth of the harbor,
                              which they named for Master Clarke, the
                              first mate, and spent Saturday and Sunday
                              there, and on Monday examined the harbor
                              they found, and are agreed that it is the
                              place for settlement.  Much satisfaction
                              with the report among the colonists.

THURSDAY, Dec. 14/24
                              At anchor, Cape Cod harbor.  The colonists
                              have determined to make settlement at the
                              harbor they visited, and which is
                              apparently, by Captain John Smith's chart
                              of 1616, no other than the place he calls
                              "Plimoth" thereon.  Fetched wood and water.

FRIDAY, Dec. 15/25
                              Weighed anchor to go to the place the
                              exploring party discovered.  Course west,
                              after leaving harbor.  Shallop in company.
                              Coming within two leagues, the wind coming
                              northwest, could not fetch the harbor, and
                              was faine to put round again towards Cape
                              Cod.  Made old anchorage at night.  The
                              thirty-fifth night have lain at anchor
                              here.  Shallop returned with ship.

SATURDAY, Dec. 16/26
                              Comes in with fair wind for Plymouth.
                              Weighed anchor and put to sea again and made
                              harbor safely.  Shallop in company.  Within
                              half an hour of anchoring the wind changed,
                              so if letted [hindered] but a little had
                              gone back to Cape Cod.  A fine harbor.
                              Let go anchors just within a long spur of
                              beach a mile or more from shore. The end of
                              the outward voyage; one hundred and two days
                              from Plymouth (England to Plymouth New
                              England). One hundred and fifty-five days
                              from London.


                  THE SHIPS JOURNAL WHILE SHE LAY IN
                            PLYMOUTH HARBOR

SUNDAY, Dec. 17/27
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Services on
                              ship.  This harbor is a bay greater than
                              Cape Cod, compassed with goodly land. It is
                              in fashion like a sickle or fish-hook.

MONDAY, Dec. 18/28
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor: The Master of
                              the ship, with three or four of the sailors
                              and several of the Planters, went aland and
                              marched along the coast several miles.
                              Made careful examination of locality. Found
                              many brooks of fine water, abundant wood,
                              etc.  The party came aboard at night weary
                              with marching.

TUESDAY, Dec. 19/29
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  A party from
                              the ship went ashore to discover, some
                              going by land and some keeping to the
                              shallop.  A creek was found leading up
                              within the land and followed up three
                              English miles, a very pleasant river at
                              full sea.  It was given the name of "Jones
                              River" in compliment to the Master of the
                              ship.  A bark of thirty tons may go up at
                              high tide, but the shallop could scarcely
                              pass at low water.  All came aboard at
                              night with resolution to fix, to-morrow,
                              which of the several places examined they
                              would settle upon.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 20/30
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor, many ill. Dec.
                              After service the colonists decided to go
                              ashore this morning and determine upon one
                              of two places which were thought most
                              fitting for their habitation.  So a
                              considerable party went ashore and left
                              twenty of their number there to make a
                              rendezvous, the rest coming on board at
                              night.  They reported that they had chosen
                              by the most voices the site first looked at
                              by the largest brook, near where they
                              landed on the 11th on a large rock
                              [Plymouth Rock].

     [The "Rock" seems to have become the established landing place of
     the Pilgrims, from the time of the first visit of the third
     exploring party on December 11/21.  The absurdity of the claims of
     the partisans of Mary Chilton, in the foolish contention which
     existed for many years as to whether she or John Alden was the first
     person to set foot upon the "Rock," is shown by the fact that, of
     course, no women were with the third exploring party which first
     landed there, while it is also certain that Alden was not of that
     exploring party.  That Mary Chilton may have been the first woman to
     land at Cape Cod harbor is entirely possible, as it is that she or
     John Alden may have been the first person to land on the "Rock"
     after the ship arrived in Plymouth harbor.  It was a vexatious
     travesty upon history (though perpetuated by parties who ought to
     have been correct) that the Association for building the Pilgrim
     Monument at Plymouth should issue a pamphlet giving a picture of the
     "Landing of the Pilgrims, December 21, 1620," in which women are
     pictured, and in which the shallop is shown with a large fore-and-
     aft mainsail, while on the same page is another picture entitled,
     "The Shallop of the MAY-FLOWER," having a large yard and square-
     sail, and a "Cuddy" (which last the MAY-FLOWER'S shallop we know did
     not have).  The printed description of the picture, however, says:
     "The cut is copied from a picture by Van der Veldt, a Dutch painter
     of the seventeenth century, representing a shallop," etc.  It is
     matter of regret to find that a book like Colonel T. W. Higginson's
     'Book of American Explorers', intended for a text-book, and bearing
     the imprint of a house like Longmans, Green & Co. should actually
     print a "cut" showing Mary Chilton landing from a boat full of men
     (in which she is the only woman) upon a rock, presumably Plymouth
     Rock.]

THURSDAY, Dec. 21/31
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  Wet and
                              stormy, so the Planters could not go ashore
                              as planned, having blown hard and rained
                              extremely all night.  Very uncomfortable
                              for the party on shore.  So tempestuous
                              that the shallop could not go to land as
                              soon as was meet, for they had no victuals
                              on land.  About eleven o'clock the shallop
                              went off with much ado with provision, but
                              could not return, it blew so strong.  Such
                              foul weather forced to ride with three
                              anchors ahead.  This day Richard
                              Britteridge, one of the colonists, died
                              aboard the ship, the first to die in this
                              harbor.

FRIDAY, Dec. 22/Jan. 1
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  The storm
                              continues, so that no one could go ashore,
                              or those on land come aboard.  This morning
                              goodwife Allerton was delivered of a son,
                              but dead-born. The third child born on
                              board the ship since leaving England,--the
                              first in this harbor.

SATURDAY, Dec. 23/Jan. 2
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Sent body of
                              Britteridge ashore for burial, the storm
                              having prevented going before, and also a
                              large party of colonists to fell timber,
                              etc.  Left a large number on shore at the
                              rendezvous.  Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Dec. 24/Jan. 3
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  Second Sunday
                              here.  This day died Solomon Prower, one of
                              the family of Master Martin, the treasurer
                              of the colonists, being the sixth death
                              this month, and the second in this harbor.
                              A burying-party went ashore with Prower's
                              body, after services aboard.

MONDAY, Dec. 25/Jan. 4
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Christmas
                              Day, but not observed by these colonists,
                              they being opposed to all saints' days,
                              etc.  The men on shore Sunday reported that
                              they "heard a cry of some savages," as they
                              thought, that day.  A large party went
                              ashore this morning to fell timber and
                              begin building.  They began to erect the
                              first house about twenty feet square for
                              their common use, to receive them and their
                              goods.  Another alarm as of Indians this
                              day.  All but twenty of the Planters came
                              aboard at night, leaving the rest to keep
                              court of guard.  The colonists began to
                              drink water, but at night the Master caused
                              them to have some beer.

TUESDAY, Dec. 26/Jan. 5
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  A violent
                              storm of wind and rain.  The weather so
                              foul this morning that none could go
                              ashore.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 27/Jan. 6
                              At anchor in harbor.  Sent working party
                              ashore.  All but the guard came aboard at
                              night.

THURSDAY, Dec. 28/Jan. 7
                              At anchor.  All able went ashore this
                              morning to work on a platform for ordnance
                              on the hill back of the settlement,
                              commanding the harbor.  The Planters this
                              day laid out their town-site and allotted
                              ground to the several families.  Many of
                              the colonists ill from exposure.  All but
                              the guard came off to the ship at night.

FRIDAY, Dec. 29/Jan. 8
                              At anchor in harbor.  No working-party went
                              aland.  The Planters fitting tools, etc.,
                              for their work.  The weather wet and cold.

SATURDAY, Dec. 30/Jan. 9
                              At anchor in harbor.  Very stormy and cold.
                              No working-party sent aland.  The Planters
                              fitting tools, etc.  Great smokes of fires
                              visible from the ship, six or seven miles
                              away, probably made by Indians.

SUNDAY, Dec. 31/Jan. 10
                              At anchor in harbor.  The third Sunday in
                              this harbor.  Sailors given leave to go
                              ashore.  Many colonists ill.

MONDAY, Jan. 1/Jan. 11
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  This day
                              Degory Priest, one of the colonists, died
                              aboard the ship. A large party went ashore
                              early to work.  Much time lost between ship
                              and shore, the ship drawing so much water
                              as obliged to anchor a mile and a half off.
                              The working-party came aboard at nightfall.
                              Fetched wood and water.

TUESDAY, Jan. 2/Jan. 12
                              At anchor in harbor.  Sent burying-party
                              ashore with Priest's body.  Weather good.
                              Working-party aland and returned to ship at
                              night.

WEDNESDAY, Jan. 3/Jan. 13
                              At anchor in harbor.  Working-party aland,
                              returned at night.  They report seeing
                              great fires of the Indians.  Smoke seen
                              from the ship.  Have seen no savages since
                              arrival.

THURSDAY, Jan. 4/Jan. 14
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Captain
                              Standish, with four or five men, went to
                              look for savages, and though they found
                              some of their old houses "wigwams" could
                              not meet with any of them.

FRIDAY, Jan. 5/Jan. 15
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Working-
                              party went aland early.  One of the sailors
                              found a live herring upon the shore, which
                              the Master had to his supper.  As yet have
                              caught but one cod.

SATURDAY, Jan. 6/Jan. 16
                              At anchor in harbor.  In judgment of
                              Masters Brewster, Bradford, and others,
                              Master Martin, the colonists' treasurer,
                              was so hopelessly ill that Governor Carver,
                              who had taken up his quarters on land, was
                              sent for to come aboard to speak with him
                              about his accounts. Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Jan. 7/Jan. 17
                              At anchor in harbor.  Fourth Sunday here.
                              Governor Carver came aboard to talk with
                              Master Martin, who was sinking fast.

MONDAY, Jan. 8/Jan. 18
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  A very fan
                              fair day.  The working-party went aland
                              early.  The Master sent, the shallop for
                              fish.  They had a great tempest at sea and
                              were in some danger.  They returned to the
                              ship at night, with three great seals they
                              had shot, and an excellent great cod.
                              Master Martin died this day.  He had been a
                              "governour" of the passengers on the ship,
                              and an "assistant," and was an Adventurer.
                              One of the Master-mates took a musket, and
                              went with young Francis Billington to find
                              the great inland sea the latter had seen
                              from the top of a tree, and found a great
                              water, in two great lakes [Billington Sea,]
                              also Indian houses.

TUESDAY, Jan. 9/Jan. 19
                              At anchor in harbor.  Fair day.  Sent
                              burying-party ashore after services aboard,
                              with the body of Master Martin, and he was
                              buried with some ceremony on the hill near
                              the landing-place.  The settlers drew lots
                              for their meersteads and garden-plots.  The
                              common-house nearly finished, wanting only
                              covering.

WEDNESDAY, Jan. 10/Jan. 20
                              At anchor in harbor.  Party went aland from
                              ship.  Frosty.

THURSDAY, Jan. 11/Jan. 21
                              At anchor in harbor.  A fair day.  Party
                              ashore from ship and coming off at night,
                              reported Master William Bradford very ill:
                              Many ill aboard.

FRIDAY, Jan. 12/Jan. 22
                              At anchor in harbor.  Began to rain at noon
                              and stopped all work.  Those coming aboard
                              ship at night reported John Goodman and
                              Peter Browne, two of the colonists,
                              missing, and fears entertained that they
                              may have been taken by Indians.  Froze and
                              snowed at night.  The first snow for a
                              month. An extremely cold night.

SATURDAY, Jan. 13/Jan. 23
                              At anchor in harbor.  The Governor sent out
                              an armed party of ten or twelve to look for
                              the missing men, but they returned without
                              seeing or hearing anything at all of them.
                              Those on shipboard much grieved, as deeming
                              them lost.  Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Jan. 14/Jan. 24
                              At anchor in harbor.  About six o'clock in
                              the morning, the wind being very great, the
                              watch on deck spied the great new
                              rendezvous on shore on fire and feared it
                              fired by Indians, but the tide being out,
                              men could not get ashore for three quarters
                              of an hour, when they went armed.  At the
                              landing they heard that the lost men were
                              returned, some frost-bitten, and that the
                              thatch of the common-house only was burnt
                              by a spark, but no other harm done the
                              roof.  The most loss was Governor Carver's
                              and Master Bradford's, both of whom lay
                              sick in bed, and narrowly missed being
                              blown up with powder.  The meeting was to
                              have been kept ashore to-day, the greater
                              number of the people now being there, but
                              the fire, etc., prevented.  Some of those
                              sick in the common-house were fain to
                              return aboard for shelter.  Fifth Sunday in
                              this harbor.

MONDAY, Jan. 15/Jan. 25
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Rained much
                              all day.  They on shipboard could not go
                              ashore nor they on shore do any labor, but
                              were all wet.

TUESDAY, Jan. 16/Jan. 26
                              At anchorage.  A fine, sunshining day like
                              April.  Party went aland betimes.  Many ill
                              both on ship and on shore.

WEDNESDAY, Jan. 17/Jan. 27
                              At anchorage.  Another fine, sunshining
                              day.  Working-party went aland early. Set
                              on shore some of the Planters' goods.

     [Mourt's Relation, Dexter's ed. p. 77.  Bradford states (op. cit.
     Mass.  ed.  p. 110) that they were hindered in getting goods ashore
     by "want of boats," as well as sickness.  Mention is made only of
     the "long-boat" and shallop.  It is possible there were no others,
     except the Master's skiff]

THURSDAY, Jan. 18/Jan. 28
                              At anchorage.  Another fine, bright day.
                              Some of the common goods [i.e.  belonging
                              to all] set on shore.

FRIDAY, Jan. 19/Jan. 29
                              At anchorage.  A shed was begun on shore to
                              receive the goods from the ship. Rained at
                              noon but cleared toward night.

     [Cleared toward evening (though wet at noon), and John Goodman went
     out to try his frozen feet, as is recorded, and had his encounter
     with wolves.]

SATURDAY, Jan. 20/Jan. 30
                              At anchorage.  Shed made ready for goods
                              from ship.  Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Jan. 21/Jan. 31
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Sixth Sunday
                              in this harbor.  Many ill.  The Planters
                              kept their meeting on land to-day for the
                              first time, in the common-house.

MONDAY, Jan. 22/Feb. 1
                              At anchorage.  Fair day.  Hogsheads of meal
                              sent on shore from ship and put in
                              storehouse.

TUESDAY, Jan. 23/Feb. 2
                              At anchorage.  The general sickness
                              increases, both on shipboard and on land.

WEDNESDAY, Jan. 24/Feb. 3
                              At anchor in harbor.  Fair weather.  Party
                              on shore from ship and returned at night.

THURSDAY, Jan. 25/Feb. 4
                              At anchorage.  Weather good.  Party set
                              ashore and came aboard at night.

FRIDAY, Jan. 26/Feb. 5
                              At anchorage.  Weather good.  Party set
                              ashore.  The sickness increases.

SATURDAY, Jan. 27/Feb. 6
                              At anchorage.  Weather fair.  Good working
                              weather all the week, but many sick.
                              Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Jan. 28/Feb. 7
                              At anchorage, Plymouth harbor.  Seventh
                              Sunday in this harbor.  Meeting kept on
                              shore.  Those of Planters on board who were
                              able, and some of the ship's company, went
                              ashore, and came off after service.

MONDAY, Jan. 29/Feb. 8
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  Morning cold,
                              with frost and sleet, but after reason ably
                              fair.  Both long-boat and shallop carrying
                              Planters' goods on shore.  Those returning
                              reported that Mistress Rose Standish, wife
                              of Captain Standish, died to-day.


TUESDAY, Jan. 30/Feb. 9
                              At anchorage.  Cold, frosty weather, so no
                              working-party went on shore from ship. The
                              Master and others of the ship's company saw
                              two savages that had been on the island
                              near the ship [Clarke's Island].  They were
                              gone so far back again before they were
                              discovered that could not speak with them.
                              The first natives actually seen since the
                              encounter on the Cape.

WEDNESDAY, Jan. 31/Feb. 10
                              At anchor in harbor.  Still cold and
                              frosty, with sleet.  No party went on
                              shore. Eight of the colonists have died
                              this month on the ship and on shore.

THURSDAY, Feb. 1/Feb. 11
                              At anchor in harbor.  Weather better, and
                              some of those on board the ship went on
                              shore to work, but many ill.

FRIDAY, Feb. 2/Feb. 12
                              At anchorage.  The same.

SATURDAY, Feb. 3/13
                              At anchorage.  Weather threatening. Fetched
                              wood and water.

SUNDAY, Feb. 4/14
                              At anchor, Plymouth harbor.  The eighth
                              Sunday in this harbor, and now inexpedient
                              to think of getting away, till both Planters
                              and crew in better condition as to health.

     [Bradford, Historie, p. 92; Young, Chronicler, p. 198.  Bradford
     says (op. cit.  Mass. ed, pp. 120, 121): "The reason on their parts
     why she stayed so long was ye necessitie and danger that lay upon
     them, for it was well toward ye ende of December before she could
     land anything here, or they able to receive anything ashore.  After
     wards, ye 14 of January the house which they had made for a general
     randevoze by casulty fell afire, and some were faine to retire
     aboard for shelter.  Then the sickness begane to fall sore amongst
     them, and ye weather so bad as they could not make much sooner
     dispatch.  Againe, the Governor & chiefe of them seeing so many dye,
     and fall down sick dayly, thought it no wisdom to send away the
     ship, their condition considered, and the danger they stood in from
     ye Indians, till they could procure some shelter; and therefore
     thought it better to draw some more charge upon themselves & friends
     ["demurrage?"] than hazard all.  The Mr. and sea-men likewise;
     though before they hasted ye passengers a shore to be goone [gone],
     now many of their men being dead, and of ye ablest of them [as is
     before noted, and of ye rest many lay sick & weake, ye Mr, durst not
     put to sea till he saw his men begine to recover, and ye hart of
     winter over."]]

                              A very rainy day with the heaviest gusts of
                              wind yet experienced.  The ship in some
                              danger of oversetting, being light and
                              unballasted.

MONDAY, Feb. 5/15
                              At anchor in harbor.  Clearing weather.

TUESDAY, Feb. 6/16
                              At anchor in harbor.  Cold and clear.

WEDNESDAY, Feb. 7/17
                              At anchor in harbor.  Much colder.

THURSDAY, Feb. 8/18
                              At anchorage.  Hard, cold weather.

FRIDAY, Feb. 9/19
                              At anchorage.  Cold weather continues.
                              Little work possible.  The little house for
                              the sick people on shore took fire this
                              afternoon, by a spark that kindled in the
                              roof.  No great harm done.  The Master
                              going ashore, killed five geese, which he
                              distributed among the sick people.  He also
                              found a good deer the savages had killed,
                              having also cut off his horns.  A wolf was
                              eating him.  Cannot conceive how he came
                              there.

SATURDAY, Feb. 10/20
                              At anchor in harbor.  Getting goods on
                              shore, but sickness makes both Planters and
                              crew shorthanded.  Fetched wood and water.

SUNDAY, Feb. 11/21
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Ninth Sunday
                              in this harbor.

MONDAY, Feb. 12/22
                              At anchorage.  Getting goods on shore.

TUESDAY, Feb. 13/23
                              At anchorage.  Rainy.

WEDNESDAY, Feb. 14/24
                              At anchorage.  More sickness on ship and on
                              shore than at any time, and more deaths.
                              Rainy, clearing.

     [The sickness and mortality had rapidly increased and was now at its
     height]

THURSDAY, Feb. 15/25
                              At anchorage.  Northerly wind and frost.

FRIDAY, Feb. 16/26
                              At anchorage.  Northerly wind continues,
                              which continues the frost.  Those from
                              shore reported that one of the Planters,
                              being out fowling and hidden in the reeds,
                              about a mile and a half from the
                              settlement, saw twelve Indians marching
                              toward the plantation and heard many more.
                              He hurried home with all speed and gave the
                              alarm, so all the people in the woods at
                              work returned and armed themselves, but saw
                              nothing of the Indians.  Captain Standish's
                              and Francis Cooke's tools also stolen by
                              Indians in woods.  A great fire toward
                              night seen from the ship, about where the
                              Indians were discovered.

SATURDAY, Feb. 17/27
                              At anchorage.  All the colonists on the
                              ship able to go on shore went this morning
                              to attend the meeting for the establishment
                              of military orders among them.  They chose
                              Captain Standish their captain, and gave
                              him authority of command in affairs.  Two
                              savages appeared on the hill, a quarter of
                              a mile from the plantation, while the
                              Planters were consulting, and made signs
                              for Planters to come to them.  All armed
                              and stood ready, and sent two towards them,
                              Captain Standish and Master Hopkins, but
                              the natives would not tarry.  It was
                              determined to plant the great ordnance in
                              convenient places at once.  Fetched wood
                              and water.

SUNDAY, Feb. 18/28
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The Feb.
                              tenth Sunday in this harbor.  Many sick,
                              both on board the ship and on shore.

MONDAY, Feb. 19/Mar. 1
                              At anchorage.  Got one of the great guns on
                              shore with the help of some of the
                              Planters.

TUESDAY, Feb. 20/Mar. 2
                              At anchorage.  Getting cannon ashore and
                              mounted.

WEDNESDAY, Feb. 21/Mar. 3
                              At anchorage.  The Master, with many of the
                              sailors, went on shore, taking one of the
                              great pieces called a minion, and with the
                              Planters drew it up the hill, with another
                              piece that lay on the shore, and mounted
                              them and a saller and two bases--five guns--
                              on the platform made for them.  A hard
                              day's work.  The Master took on shore with
                              him a very fat goose he had shot, to which
                              the Planters added a fat crane, a mallard,
                              and a dried neat's tongue (ox tongue), and
                              Planters and crew feasted together.  When
                              the Master went on shore, he sent off the
                              Governor to take the directions of Master
                              Mullens as to his property, as he was lying
                              near to death,--as also Master White.
                              Master Mullens dictated his will to the
                              Governor, which  he noted down, and  Giles
                              Heale, the chirurgeon, and Christopher
                              Joanes, of the crew, witnessed, they being
                              left aboard to care for the sick, keep the
                              ship, etc.  Master Mullens and Master White
                              both died this day.  Two others also died.
                              Got the men aboard about nightfall.

THURSDAY, Feb. 22/Mar. 4
                              At anchorage.  Large burial-party went
                              ashore with bodies of Masters Mullens and
                              White, and joined with those on shore made
                              the chief burial thus far had.  The service
                              on shore, the most of the people being
                              there, Master Mullens being one of the
                              chief subscribing Adventurers, as well as
                              one of the chief men of the Planters, as
                              was Master White.  Their deaths much
                              deplored.

FRIDAY, Feb. 23/Mar. 5
                              At anchorage.  Party from the ship went on
                              shore to help finish work on the ordnance.

SATURDAY, Feb. 24/Mar. 6
                              At anchorage.  Same.  Fetched wood and
                              water.

SUNDAY, Feb. 25/Mar. 7
                              At anchorage in Plymouth harbor.  Eleventh
                              Sunday in this harbor.  Mistress Mary
                              Allerton, wife of Master Isaac Allerton,
                              one of the chief men of the colonists, died
                              on board this day, not having mended well
                              since the birth of her child, dead-born
                              about two months agone.

MONDAY, Feb. 26/Mar. 8
                              At anchor in harbor.  Burying-party went
                              ashore to bury Mistress Allerton, services
                              being held there.

TUESDAY, Feb. 27/Mar. 9
                              At anchorage.  The sickness and deaths of
                              the colonists on shore have steadily
                              increased, and have extended to the ship,
                              which has lost several of its petty
                              officers, including the master gunner,
                              three quarter-masters, and cook, and a
                              third of the crew, many from scurvy.

     [There can be no doubt that both planters and ship's crew suffered
     severely from scurvy.  The conditions all favored it, the sailors
     were familiar with it, and would not be likely to be mistaken in
     their recognition of it, and Dr. Fuller, their competent physician,
     would not be likely to err in his diagnosis of it.  Tuberculosis was
     its very natural associate.]

WEDNESDAY, Feb. 28/Mar. 10
                              At anchorage.  The last day of the month.
                              The fifty-third day the ship has lain in
                              this harbor, and from the present rate of
                              sickness and death aboard, no present
                              capacity or prospect of getting away, those
                              better being yet weak.  The Planters have
                              lost seventeen this month, their largest
                              mortality.

THURSDAY, Mar. 1/11
                              At anchorage.  Blustering but milder
                              weather.

FRIDAY, Mar. 2/12

                              At anchorage.  Same.

SATURDAY, Mar. 3/13
                              At anchorage.  Wind south.  Morning misty
                              [foggy].  Towards noon warm and fine
                              weather.  At one o'clock it thundered.  The
                              first heard.  It rained sadly from two
                              o'clock till midnight.  Fetched wood and
                              water.

SUNDAY, Mar. 4/14
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The twelfth
                              Sunday in this harbor.  Cooler.  Clear
                              weather.

MONDAY, Mar. 5/15
                              At anchorage.  Rough weather.

TUESDAY, Mar. 6/16
                              At anchorage.  Same.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 7/17
                              At anchor in harbor.  Wind full east, cold
                              but fair.  The Governor went this day with
                              a party of five, to the great ponds,
                              discovered by one of the ship's mates and
                              Francis Billington.  Some planting done in
                              the settlement.

THURSDAY, Mar. 8/18
                              At anchor in harbor.  Rough easterly
                              weather.

FRIDAY, Mar. 9/19
                              At anchorage.  Same.  Many sick aboard.

SATURDAY, Mar. 10/20
                              At anchorage.  Same.  Fetched wood and
                              water.

SUNDAY, Mar. 11/21
                              At anchorage, Plymouth harbor.  The
                              thirteenth Sunday the ship has lain in this
                              harbor.  Many of crew yet ill, including
                              boatswain.

MONDAY, Mar. 12/22
                              At anchorage.  Easterly weather.

TUESDAY, Mar. 13/23
                              At anchorage.  The sickness and mortality
                              on ship and on shore continue.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 14/24
                              At anchorage.  Same.

THURSDAY, Mar. 15/25
                              At anchorage.  Same.

FRIDAY, Mar. 16/26
                              At anchorage.  A fair, warm day, towards
                              noon.  The Master and others went ashore to
                              the general meeting.  The plantation was
                              startled this morning by a visit from an
                              Indian who spoke some English and bade
                              "Welcome."  He is from Monhiggon, an island
                              to the eastward some days' sail, near where
                              Sir Ferdinando Gorges had a settlement.  He
                              was friendly, and having had much
                              intercourse with Englishmen who came to
                              fish in those parts, very comfortable with
                              them.  He saw the ship in the harbor from a
                              distance and supposed her to be a fishing
                              vessel.  He told the Governor that the
                              plantation was formerly called "Patuxet"
                              [or Apaum], and that all its inhabitants
                              had been carried off by a plague about four
                              years ago.  All the afternoon was spent in
                              communication with him.  The Governor
                              purposed sending him aboard the ship at
                              night, and he was well content to go and
                              went aboard the shallop to come to the
                              ship, but the wind was high and water scant
                              [low], so that the shallop could not go to
                              the ship.  The Governor sent him to Master
                              Hopkins's house and set a watch over him.

SATURDAY, Mar. 17/27
                              At anchor in harbor.  The Master and others
                              came off to the ship.  Samoset the Indian
                              went away back to the Massasoits whence he
                              came.  A reasonably fair day.  Fetched wood
                              and water.

SUNDAY, Mar. 18/28
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The
                              fourteenth Sunday the ship has lain at this
                              anchorage.  A fair day.  The sickness
                              stayed a little.  Many went on shore to the
                              meeting in the common-house.  Samoset the
                              savage came again, and brought five others
                              with him.

     [This Sunday visit was doubtless very much to the dislike of the
     good brethren, or at least of the leaders, but policy dictated every
     possible forbearance.  Their consciences drew the line at trade,
     however, and they got rid of their untimely visitors as soon as
     possible without giving offense.  Massasoit's men seem to have
     shown, by leaving their peltry with them, a confidence in their new
     white neighbors that is remarkable in view of the brevity of their
     friendship.]

                              They left their bows and arrows a quarter
                              of a mile from the town, as instructed.
                              The Planters gave them entertainment, but
                              would not truck with them.

     ["Truck--to trade."  All early and modern lexicographers give the
     word, which, though now obsolete, was in common use in parts of New
     England fifty years ago.]

                              They sang and danced after their manner,
                              and made semblance of amity and friendship.
                              They drank tobacco and carried pounded corn
                              to eat.  Their faces were painted.  They
                              brought a few skins which they left with
                              the Planters, and returned the tools which
                              Captain Standish and Francis Cooke left in
                              the woods.  The Planters dismissed them
                              with a few trifles as soon as they could,
                              it being Sunday, and they promised soon to
                              return and trade.  Samoset would not go
                              with them, feigning sick, and stayed.
                              Those on shore from the ship came off to
                              her at night.

MONDAY, Mar. 19/29
                              At anchorage.  A fair day.  The Planters
                              digging and sowing seeds.

TUESDAY, Mar. 20/30
                              At anchorage.  A fine day.  Digging and
                              planting of gardens on shore.  Those sick
                              of the crew mending.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 21/31
                              At anchorage.  A fine warm day.  Beginning
                              to put ship in trim for return voyage.
                              Bringing ballast, etc.  Some, includ ing
                              the Masters-mates, went on shore, who on
                              return reported that the Planters sent the
                              Indian Samoset away.  A general meeting of
                              the Planters was held at the common-house,
                              to conclude laws and orders, and to confirm
                              the military orders formerly proposed, and
                              twice broken off by the savages coming, as
                              happened again.  After the meeting had held
                              an hour or so, two or three savages
                              appeared on the hill over against the town,
                              and made semblance of daring the Planters.
                              Captain Standish and another, with their
                              muskets, went over to them, with the two
                              Masters-mates of the ship, who were ashore,
                              also armed with muskets.  The savages made
                              show of defiance, but as our men drew near
                              they ran away.  This day the carpenter, who
                              has long been ill of scurvy, fitted the
                              shallop to carry all the goods and
                              furniture aboard the ship, on shore.

THURSDAY, Mar. 22/Apr. 1
                              At anchorage.  A very fair, warm day.
                              At work on ship getting ready for sea,
                              bringing ballast aboard, etc.  Another
                              general meeting of the Planters which all
                              able attended.  They had scarce been an
                              hour together when Samoset the Indian came
                              again with one Squanto, the only native of
                              Patuxet (where the Planters now inhabit)
                              surviving, who was one of the twenty captives
                              carried away from this place by Captain Hunt,
                              to England.  He could speak a little English.
                              They brought three other Indians with them.
                              They signified that their great Sagamore,
                              Masasoyt, was hard by, with Quadequina his
                              brother, and all their men.  They could not
                              well express what they would in English,
                              but after an hour the king came to the top
                              of the hill, over against the plantation,
                              with his train of about sixty men.  Squanto
                              went to him and brought a message that one
                              should be sent to parley with him, and Master
                              Edward Winslow went, to know hisnmind, and
                              signify the wish of the Governor to have
                              trading and peace with him, the Governor
                              sending presents to the king and his brother,
                              with something to eat and drink.

     [Edward Winslow gives us here another proof of that rare self-
     sacrifice, that entire devotion to his work, and that splendid
     intrepidity which so signally characterized his whole career.  At
     this most critical moment, the fate of the little colony trembling
     in the balance, when there was evident fear of treachery and
     surprise on the part of both the English and the savages; though the
     wife of his youth lay at the point of death (which came but two days
     later), and his heart was heavy with grief; forgetting all but the
     welfare of his little band of brethren, he goes forward alone, his
     life in his hand, to meet the great sachem surrounded by his whole
     tribe, as the calm, adroit diplomatist, upon whom all must depend;
     and as the fearless hostage, to put himself in pawn for the savage
     chief.]

                              The king, leaving Master Winslow with
                              brother, came over the brook, with some
                              twenty of his men, leaving their bows and
                              arrows behind them, and giving some six or
                              seven of their men as hostages for Master
                              Winslow.  Captain Standish, with Master
                              Williamson, the ship's-merchant, as
                              interpreter,

     [It would seem from the frequent mention of the presence of some of
     the ship's company, Master Jones, the "Masters-mates," and now the
     "ship's-merchant," that the ship was daily well represented in the
     little settlement on shore.  The presence of Master Williamson on
     this occasion is perhaps readily accounted for.  Every other meeting
     with the Indians had been unexpected, the present one was
     anticipated, and somewhat eagerly, for upon its successful issue
     almost everything depended.  By this time Standish had probably
     become aware that Tisquantum's command of English was very limited,
     and he desired all the aid the ship's interpreter could give.  By
     some means, the sachem and the colonists succeeded in establishing
     on this day a very good and lasting understanding.]

                              and a guard of half a dozen musketeers, met
                              the king at the brook,

     [The guard was probably made thus small to leave the body of the
     colonists as strong a reserve force as possible to meet any surprise
     attack on the part of the Indians.  Colonel Higginson, in his Book
     of American Explorers, gives a cut of this meeting of Massasoit and
     his pineses with Standish and his guard of honor, but it is
     defective in that the guard seems to have advanced to the hill
     ("Strawberry," or later "Watson's") to meet the sachem, instead of
     only to "the brook;" and more especially in that there are but two
     officers with the "six musketeers," where there ought to be three,
     viz.  Standish, in command, Edward Window, as the envoy and hostage
     (in full armor), and "Mr. Williamson," the ship's-merchant or
     purser, as interpreter, perhaps acting as lieutenant of the guard.
     It is always matter of regret when books, especially text-books,
     written by authors of some repute, and published by reputable
     houses, fail, for want of only a little care in the study of the
     available history of events they pictorially represent, to make
     their pictures and the known facts correspond.]

                              and they saluted each other, and the guard
                              conducted the Sagamore to one of the new
                              houses then building, where were placed a
                              green rug and three or four cushions.  Then
                              came the Governor with drum and trumpet,
                              and a guard of musketeers, and they drank
                              to each other in some strong waters, and
                              the Governor gave the king and his
                              followers meat, and they made a treaty in
                              King James's name, and drank tobacco
                              together. His face was painted a sad red,
                              and his head and face were oiled, which
                              made him look greasy.  All his followers
                              were more or less painted.  So after all
                              was done, the Governor conducted him to the
                              brook, and his brother came, and was also
                              feasted, and then conveyed him to the
                              brook, and Master Winslow returned.
                              Samoset and Squanto stayed in the town and
                              the Indians stayed all night in the woods
                              half a mile away.  The last of the
                              colonists on board the ship went ashore to
                              remain to-day.

FRIDAY, Mar. 23/Apr. 2
                              At anchor.  A fair day.  Some of the ship's
                              company went on shore.  Some of the Indians
                              came again, and Captain Standish and Master
                              Allerton went to see the king, and were
                              welcomed by him.  This morning the Indians
                              stayed till ten or eleven of the clock, and
                              the Governor, sending for the king's
                              kettle, filled it with pease, and they went
                              their way?  Making ready for sea, getting
                              ballast, wood, and water from the shore,
                              etc.  The Planters held a meeting and
                              concluded both of military orders and some
                              laws, and chose as Governor, for the coming
                              year, Master John Carver, who was
                              "governor" on the ship.

SATURDAY, Mar. 24/April 3
                              At anchorage.  The ship's company busy with
                              preparations for the return voyage,
                              bringing ballast, wood, and water from the
                              shore, etc., the ship having no lading for
                              the return.  This day died, on shore,
                              Mistress Elizabeth Winslow, wife of Master
                              Winslow.  Many still sick.  More on the
                              ship than on shore.

SUNDAY, Mar. 25/April 4
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The
                              fifteenth Sunday in this port.  Many of the
                              crew dead and some still sick, but the
                              sickness and mortality lessening.

MONDAY, Mar. 26/April 5
                              At anchor.  Bringing ballast from shore and
                              getting ship in trim.

TUESDAY, Mar. 27/April 6
                              At anchorage.  Getting ballast, overhauling
                              rigging, getting wood, water, etc., from
                              shore.

WEDNESDAY, Mar. 28/April 7
                              At anchorage.  Same.

THURSDAY, Mar. 29/April 8
                              At anchorage.  The Master offered to take
                              back any of the colonists who wished to
                              return to England, but none desired to go.
                              Getting in stores and ballast.

FRIDAY, Mar. 30/April 9
                              At anchorage.  Hastening all preparations
                              for sailing.  Getting ballast, etc.  Water
                              butts filled.

SATURDAY, Mar. 31/April 10
                              At anchorage.  Setting up rigging, bending
                              light sails, etc.  Getting ballast and wood
                              from the beach and island.  The colonists
                              have lost thirteen by death the past month,
                              making in all half of their number.

SUNDAY, April 1/11
                              At anchor in Plymouth harbor.  The
                              sixteenth Sunday the ship has lain at
                              anchor here, and to be the last, being
                              nearly ready to sail.  Most of the crew
                              ashore on liberty. In the sixteen weeks the
                              ship has lain here, half of her crew (but
                              none of her officers) have died, and a few
                              are still weak.  Among the petty officers
                              who have died have been the master gunner,
                              boatswain, and three quartermasters, beside
                              the cook, and more than a third of the
                              sailors.  A bad voyage for the owner,
                              Adventurers, ship, and crew.

MONDAY, April 2/12
                              Still at anchor, but making last
                              preparations for voyage.  Ship's officers
                              made farewells on shore.  Governor Carver
                              copied out, and Giles Heale and Chris.
                              Jones witnessed, Master Mullens's will, to
                              go to England.

TUESDAY, April 3/13
                              Still at anchorage, but (near) ready to
                              sail with a fair wind.  Master Williamson,
                              the ship's-merchant [purser], appointed by
                              Master Mullens an overseer of his will,
                              takes copy of same to England for probate,
                              with many letters, keepsakes, etc., etc.,
                              to Adventurers and friends.  Very little
                              lading, chiefly skins and roots.  Make
                              adieus to Governor Carver and company.

WEDNESDAY, April 4/14
                              Still at anchor in Plymouth harbor.  Sails
                              loosened and all ready for departure except
                              Governor's letters.  Last visits of shore
                              people to ship.  Sail with morning tide, if
                              wind serves.  One hundred and ten days in
                              this harbor.

THURSDAY, April 5/15
                              Got anchors, and with fair wind got
                              underway at full tide.  Many to bid adieu.
                              Set colors and gave Planters a parting
                              salute with the ensign and ordnance.
                              Cleared the harbor without hindrance, and
                              laid general course E.S.E.  for England
                              with a fine wind.  Took departure from Cape
                              Cod early in the day, shook off the land
                              and got ship to rights before night.  All
                              sails set and the ship logging her best.


And so the MAY-FLOWER began her speedy, uneventful, homeward run,
of but thirty-one days, arriving in England May 6, 1621, having been
absent, on her "round voyage," from her sailing port, two hundred and
ninety-six days.


                         THE END OF THE VOYAGE
                              AND OF THIS
                                JOURNAL


AUTHOR'S NOTE.  Of the "Log" Of the MAY-FLOWER, the author is able to
repeat the assurance given as to the brief Journal of the SPEEDWELL, and
is able to say, in the happy phrase of Griffis, "I have tried to state
only recorded facts, or to give expression to well grounded inferences."


                                 APPENDIX


In view of the natural wish of many of "restricted facilities," to consult
for themselves the full text of certain of the principal letters and
documents which have imparted much of the most definite and valuable
information concerning the Pilgrim movement, it has been thought well to
include certain of them here verbatim, that they may be of ready
availability to the reader. The list comprises copies of--

I.  The Agreement of the Merchant Adventurers and Planters;

II.  The Letter of the Leyden Leaders to John Carver and Robert Cushman
(at London), May 31/June 10, 1620;

III.  The Letter of Robert Cushman to John Carver (then at Southampton),
Saturday, June 10/20, 1620;

IV.  The Letter of Robert Cushman to the Leyden Leaders, June 10/20,
1620;

V.  The Letter of Robert Cushman to the Leyden Leaders, Sunday, June
11/21, 1620;

VI.  The Letter of Rev. John Robinson to John Carver at London, June
14/24, 1620;

VII.  The Letter of the Planters to the Merchant Adventurers from
Southamp ton, August 3, 1620;

VIII.  The Letter of Robert Cushman (from Dartmouth) to Edward
Southworth, Thursday, August 17,1620;

IX.  The MAY-FLOWER Compact;

X.  The Nuncupative Will of Master William Mullens; and

XI.  The Letter of "One of the Chiefe of ye Companie" (The Merchant
Adventurers), dated at London, April 9, 1623--

Many other early original documents frequently referred to in this volume
are of no less interest than those here given, but most of them have
either had such publication as to be more generally known or accessible,
or involve space and cost disproportionate to their value in this
connection.


                                   I
         THE AGREEMENT OF THE MERCHANT ADVENTURERS AND PLANTERS

Anno: 1620, July 1.

1.  The adventurers & planters doe agree, that every person that goeth
being aged 16. years & upward, be rated at 10li., and ten pounds to be
accounted a single share.

2.  That he goeth in person, and furnisheth him selfe out with 10li.
either in money or other provisions, be accounted as haveing 20li. in
stock, and in ye devission shall receive a double share.

3.  The persons transported & ye adventurers shall continue their joynt
stock & partnership togeather, ye space of 7 years, (excepte some
unexpected impedimente doe cause ye whole company to agree otherwise,)
during which time, all profits & benifits that are gott by trade,
traffick, trucking, working, fishing, or any other means of any person or
persons, remaine still in ye comone stock untill ye division.

4.  That at their coming ther, they chose out such a number of fitt
persons, as may furnish their ships and boats for fishing upon ye sea;
imploying the rest of their severall faculties upon ye land; as building
houses, tilling, and planting ye ground, & makeing shuch comodities as
shall be most usefull for ye collonie.

5.  That at ye end of ye 7 years, ye capitall & profits, viz.  the
houses, lands, goods and chatels, be equally devided betwixte ye
adventurers, and planters; wch done, every man shall be free from other
of them of any debt or detrimente concerning this adventure.

6.  Whosoever cometh to ye colonie hereafter, or putteth any into ye
stock, shall at the ende of ye 7. years be alowed proportionably to ye
time of his so doing.

7.  He that shall carie his wife & children, or servants, shall be alowed
for everie person now aged 16. years & upward, a single share in ye
devision, or if he provid them necessaries, a duble share, or if they be
between 10. year old and 16., then 2. of them to be reconed for a person,
both in trasportation and devision.

8.  That such children as now goe, & are under ye age of ten years, have
noe other shar in ye devision, but 50. acers of unmanured land.

9.  That such persons as die before ye 7. years be expired, their
executors to have their parte or sharr at ye devision, proportionably to
ye time of their life in ye collonie.

10.  That all such persons as are of this collonie, are to have their
meate, drink, apparell, and all provissions out of ye comon stock & goods
of ye said collonie.


Governor Bradford adds:--

"The chief and principal differences betwene these & the former
[original] conditions, stood in those 2. points; that ye houses, & lands
improved, espetialy gardens & home lotts should remaine undevided wholy
to ye planters at ye 7. years end.  2ly, yt they should have had 2. days
in a weeke for their owne private imploymente, for ye more comforte of
themselves and their families, espetialy such as had families."

[Apparently, as has been noted, neither these articles of agreement, nor
their predecessors which received the approval of the Leyden leaders,
were ever signed by the contracting parties, until Robert Cushman brought
the later draft over in the FORTUNE, in 1621, and the planter body
(advised thereto by Pastor Robinson, who had previously bitterly opposed)
signed them.  Much might be truly said on either side of this
controversy--indeed was said at the time; but if the Pilgrims were to
abandon their contention, whatever its merits, in a year's time, as they
did, it would seemingly have been much better not to have begun it, for
it undoubtedly cost them dear.]


                                   II
            LETTER OF THE LEYDEN LEADERS TO JOHN CARVER AND
                       ROBERT CUSHMAN, AT LONDON

May 31/June 10, 1620.

To their loving freinds John Carver and Robart Cushman, these, &c.

Good bretheren, after salutations, &c.  We received diverse letters at ye
coming of Mr. [Thomas] Nash & our pilott, which is a great incouragmente
unto us, and for whom we hop after times will minister occasion of
praising God; and indeed had you not sente him, many would have been
ready to fainte and goe backe.  Partly in respecte of ye new conditions
which have bene taken up by you, which all men are against, and partly in
regard of our owne inabillitie to doe any one of those many waightie
bussineses you referr to us here.  For ye former wherof, wheras Robart
Cushman desirs reasons for our dislike, promising therupon to alter ye
same, or els saing we should thinke he hath no brains, we desire him to
exercise them therin, refering him to our pastors former reasons, and
them to ye censure of ye godly wise.  But our desires are that you will
not entangle your selvs and us in any such unreasonable courses as those
are, viz. yt the marchants should have ye halfe of mens houses and lands
at ye dividente; and that persons should be deprived of ye 2. days in a
weeke agreed upon, yea every momente of time for their owne perticuler;
by reason wherof we cannot conceive why any should carie servants for
their own help and comfort; for that we can require no more of them than
all men one of another.  This we have only by relation from Mr. Nash, &
not from any writing of your owne, & therfore hope you have not proceeded
farr in so great a thing without us.  But requiring you not to exseed the
bounds of your comission, which was to proceed upon ye things or
conditions agred upon and expressed in writing (at your going over it),
we leave it, not without marveling, that your selfe, as you write,
knowing how smale a thing troubleth our consultations, and how few,
as you fear, understands the busnes aright, should trouble us with such
matters as these are, &c. Salute Mr. Weston from us, in whom we hope we
are not deceived; we pray you make known our estate unto him, and if you
thinke good shew him our letters, at least tell him (yt under God) we
much relie upon him & put our confidence in him; and, as your selves well
know, that if he had not been an adventurer with us, we had not taken it
in hand; presuming that if he had not seene means to accomplish it, he
would not have begune it; so we hope in our extremitie he will so farr
help us as our expectation be no way made frustrate concerning him.
Since therfor, good brethren, we have plainly opened ye state of things
with us in this matter, you will, &c.  Thus beseeching ye Allmightie, who
is allsufficiente to raise us out of this depth of difficulties, to
assiste us herin; raising such means by his providence and fatherly care
for us, his pore children & servants, as we may with comforte behould ye
hand of our God for good towards us in this our bussines, which we
undertake in his name & fear, we take leave & remaine
                              Your perplexed, yet hopful
                                   bretheren,
June 10, New Stille
Ano: 1620.  SAMUEL FULLER, EDWARD WINSLOW,
            WILLIAM BRADFORD, ISAAC ALLERTON.


                                  III
             THE LETTER OF ROBERT CUSHMAN (AT LONDON), TO
                     JOHN CARVER (AT SOUTHAMPTON)

Saturday, June 10/20, 1620.

To his loving freind Mr. John Carver, these, &c.

Loving freind, I have received from you some letters, full of affection &
complaints, & what it is you would have of me I know not; for your
crieing out, Negligence, negligence, negligence, I marvell why so
negligente a man was used in ye bussines: Yet know you yt all that I have
power to doe hear, shall not be one hower behind, I warent you.  You have
reference to Mr. Weston to help us with money, more then his adventure;
wher he protesteth but for his promise, he would not have done any thing.
He saith we take a heady course, and is offended yt our provissions are
made so farr of; as also that he was not made aquainted with our
quantitie of things; and saith yt in now being in 3. places, so farr
remote, (i.e.  Leyden, London, and Southampton) we will, with going up &
downe, and wrangling & expostulating, pass over ye sourer before we will
goe.  And to speake ye trueth, they is fallen already amongst us a flatt
schisme; and we are redier to goe to dispute, then to sett forwarde a
vaiage.  I have received from Leyden since you wente (to Southampton) 3.
or 4. letters directed to you, though they only conscerne me.  I will not
trouble you with them.  I always feared ye event of ye Amsterdamers
(members of Rev. Henry Ainsworth's church there) striking in with us.
I trow you must excomunicate me, or els you must goe without their
companie, or we shall wante no quareling; but let them pass.

We have reckoned, it should seeme, without our host; and, count upon a
150. persons, ther cannot be founde above 1200li. & odd moneys of all ye
venturs you can reckone, besids some cloath, stockings, & shoes, which
are not counted; so we shall come shorte at least 3. or 400li.  I would
have had some thing shortened at first of beare (beer) & other
provissions in hope of other adventurs, & now we could have, both in
Amsterd & Kente, beere inough to serve our turne, but now we cannot
accept it without prejudice.  You fear we have begune to build & and
shall not be able to make an end; indeed, our courses were never
established by counsell, we may therfore justly fear their standing.
Yea, then was a schisme amongst us 3. at ye first.  You wrote to Mr.
Martin, to prevente ye making of ye provissions in Kente, which he did,
and sett downe his resolution how much he would have of every thing,
without respecte to any counsell or exception.  Surely he yt is in a
societie & yet regards not counsell, may better be a king then a
consorte.  To be short, if then be not some other dispossition setled
unto then yet is, we yt should be partners of humilitie and peace, shall
be examples of jangling & insulting.  Yet your money which you ther
[Southampton] must have, we will get provided for you instantly.  500li.
you say will serve; for ye rest which hear & in Holand is to be used, we
may goe scratch for it.  For Mr. Crabe,  of whom you write, he hath
promised to goe with us, yet I tell you I shall not be without feare till
I see him shipped, for he [i.e.  his going] is much opposed, yet I hope
he will not faile. Thinke ye best of all, and bear with patience what is
wanting, and ye Lord guid us all.
                         Your loving freind,
                                   ROBART CUSHMAN.
London June 10.
Ano: 1620.


                                  IV
          THE LETTER OF ROBERT CUSHMAN TO THE LEYDEN LEADERS

(Probably written at London, Saturday, June 10/20, 1620.)

Brethern, I understand by letters & passagess yt have come to me, that
ther are great discontents, & dislike of my proceedings amongst you.
Sorie I am to hear it, yet contente to beare it, as not doubting but yt
partly by writing, and more principally by word when we shall come
togeather, I shall satisfie any reasonable man.  I have been perswaded by
some, espetialy this bearer, to come and clear things unto you; but as
things now stand I cannot be absente one day, excepte I should hazard all
ye viage.  Neither conceive I any great good would come of it.  Take
then, brethern, this as a step to give you contente.  First, for your
dislike of ye alteration of one clause in ye conditions, if you conceive
it right, ther can be no blame lye on me at all.  For ye articles first
brought over by John Carver were never seene of any of ye adventurers
hear, excepte Mr. Weston, neither did any of them like them because of
that clause; nor Mr. Weston him selfe, after he had well considered it.
But as at ye first ther was 500li. withdrawne by Sr. Georg Farrer and his
brother upon that dislike, so all ye rest would have withdrawne (Mr.
Weston excepted) if we had not altered yt clause.  Now whilst we at
Leyden conclude upon points, as we did, we reckoned without our host,
which was not my faulte.  Besids, I shewed you by a letter ye equitie of
yt condition, & our inconveniences, which might be sett against all Mr.
Rob: [Robinson's] inconveniences, that without ye alteration of yt
clause, we could neither have means to gett thither, nor supplie wherby
to subsiste when we were ther.  Yet notwithstanding all those reasons,
which were not mine, but other mens wiser than my selfe, without answer
to any one of them, here cometh over many quirimonies, and complaints
against me, of lording it over my brethern, and making conditions fitter
for theeves & bondslaves then honest men, and that of my owne head I did
what I list.  And at last a paper of reasons, framed against yt clause in
ye conditions, which as yey were delivered me open, so my answer is open
to you all.  And first, as they are no other but inconveniences, such as
a man might frame 20. as great on ye other side, and yet prove nor
disprove nothing by them, so they misse & mistake both ye very ground of
ye article and nature of ye project.

For, first, it is said, that if ther had been no divission of houses &
lands, it had been better for ye poore.  True, and yt showeth ye
inequalitie of ye condition; we should more respect him yt ventureth both
his money and his person, then him yt ventureth but his person only.

2.  Consider whereaboute we are, not giveing almes, but furnishing a
store house; no one shall be porer then another for 7. years, and if any
be rich, none can be pore.  At ye least, we must not in such bussines
crie, Pore, pore, mercie, mercie.  Charitie hath it[s] life in wraks, not
in venturs; you are by this most in a hopefull pitie of makeing,
therefore complaine not before you have need.

3.  This will hinder ye building of good and faire houses, contrarie to
ye advise of pollitiks.  A.  So we would have it; our purpose is to build
for ye presente such houses as, if need be, we may with litle greefe set
a fire, and rune away by the lighte; our riches shall not be in pompe,
but in strength; if God send us riches, we will imploye them to provid
more men, ships, munition, &c.  You may see it amongst the best
pollitiks, that a comonwele is readier to ebe then to flow, when once
fine houses and gay cloaths come up.

4.  The Govet may prevente excess in building.  A.  But if it be on all
men beforehand resolved on, to build mean houses, ye Govet laboure is
spared.

5.  All men are not of one condition.  A.  If by condition you mean
wealth, you are mistaken; if you mean by condition, qualities, then I say
he that is not contente his neighbour shall have as good a house, fare,
means, &c.  as him selfe, is not of a good qualitie.  2ly.  Such retired
persons, as have an eie only to them selves, are fitter to come wher
catching is, then closing; and are fitter to live alone, then in any
societie, either civil or religious.

6.  It will be of litle value, scarce worth 5li.  A.  True, it may not be
worth halfe 5li.  If then so smale a thing will content them, (the
Adventurers) why strive we thus aboute it, and give them occasion to
suspecte us to be worldly & covetous?  I will not say what I have heard
since these complaints came first over [from Leyden].

7.  Our freinds with us yt adventure mind not their owne profite, as did
ye old adventurers.  A.  Then they are better than we, who for a little
matter of profite are readie to draw back, and it is more apparente,
brethern looke too it, that make profit your maine end; repente of this,
els goe not least you be like Jonas to Tarshis.  Though some of
them mind not their profite, yet others doe mind it; and why not as well
as we?  venturs are made by all sorts of men, and we must labour to give
them all contente, if we can.

8.  It will break ye course of comunitie, as may be showed by many
reasons.  A.  That is but said, and I say againe, it will best foster
comunion, as may be showed by many reasons.

9.  Great profite is like to be made by trucking, fishing, &c.  A. As it
is better for them, so for us; for halfe is ours, besids our living still
upon it, and if such profite in yt way come, our labour shall be ye less
on ye land, and our houses & lands will be of less value.

10.  Our hazard is greater than theirs.  A.  True, but doe they put us
upon it?  doe they urge or egg us?  hath not ye motion & resolution been
always in our selves? doe they any more then in seeing us resolute if we
had means, help us to means upon equall termes & conditions!  If we will
not goe, they are content to keep their moneys.

Thus I have pointed at a way to loose those knots, which I hope you will
consider seriously, and let me have no more stirr about them.

Now furder, I hear a noise of slavish conditions by me made; but surly
this is all I have altered, and reasons I have sent you.  If you mean it
of ye 2. days in a week for perticuler, as some insinuate, you are
deceived; you may have 3. days in a week for me if you will.  And when I
have spoken to ye adventurers of times of working, they have said they
hope we are men of discretion & conscience, and so fitt to be trusted our
selves with that.  But indeed ye ground of our proceedings at Leyden was
mistaken, and so here is nothing but tottering every day, &c.

As for them of Amsterdam, [i.e.  the members of Rev. Henry Ainsworth's
church there] I had thought they would as soon gone to Rome as with us;
for our libertie is to them as ratts bane, and their riggour as bad to us
as ye Spanish Inquisition.  If any practise of mine discourage them, let
them yet draw back; I will undertake they shall have their money againe
presently paid hear.  Or if the Company think me to be ye Jonas, let them
cast me of before we goe; I shall be content to stay with good will,
having but ye cloaths on my back; only let us have quietnes, and no more
of these clamors; full little did I expect these things which are now
come to pass, &c.
                              Yours,
                                        R.  CUSHMAN.


                                   V
      THE LETTER OF ROBERT CUSHMAN TO THE LEYDEN LEADERS, LONDON

                                   (Sunday, June 11/21, 1620.)

Salutations, &c.  I received your letter [of May 31/June 10] yesterday,
by John Turner, with another ye same day from Amsterdam by Mr. W.
savouring of ye place whenc it came.  And indeed the many discouragements
I find her,[London] togeather with ye demurrs and retirings ther,[Leyden]
had made me to say, I would give up my accounts to John Carver, & at his
comeing aquainte him fully with all courses, and so leave it quite, with
only ye pore cloaths on my back. But gathering up my selfe by further
consideration, I resolved yet to make one triall more, and to acquainte
Mr. Weston with ye fainted state of our bussines; and though he hath been
much discontented at some thing amongst us of late, which hath made him
often say, that save for his promise, he would not meadle at all with ye
bussines any more, yet considering how farr we were plunged into maters,
& how it stood both on our credits & undoing, at ye last he gathered up
him selfe a litle more, & coming to me 2. hours after, he tould me he
would not yet leave it.  And so advising togeather we resolved to hire a
ship, and have tooke liking of one till Monday, about 60. laste, for a
greater we cannot gett, excepte it be tow great; but a fine ship it is.
And seeing our neer freinds ther are so streite lased, we hope to assure
her without troubling them any further; and if ye ship fale too small, it
fitteth well yt such as stumble at strawes already, may rest them ther a
while, least worse blocks come in ye way ere 7. years be ended.  If you
had beaten this bussines so throuly a month agoe, and write to us as now
you doe, we could thus have done much more conveniently.  But it is as it
is; I hope our freinds they, if they be quitted of ye ship hire, will be
indusced to venture ye more.  All yt I now require is yt salt and netts
may ther be boughte, and for all ye rest we will here provid it; yet if
that will not be, let them but stand for it a month or tow, and we will
take order to pay it all.  Let Mr. Reinholds tarie ther, and bring ye
ship to Southampton.  We have hired another pilote here, one Mr. Clarke,
who went last year to Virginia with a ship of kine.

You shall here distinctly by John Turner, who I thinke shall come hence
on tewsday night.  I had thought to have come with him, to have answered
to my complaints; but I shal lerne to pass litle for their censurs; and
if I had more minde to goe & dispute & expostulate with them, then I have
care of this waightie bussines, I were like them who live by clamours &
jangling.  But neither my mind nor my body is at libertie to doe much,
for I am fettered with bussines, and had rather study to be quiet, then
to make answer to their exceptions.  If men be set on it, let them beat
ye eair; I hope such as are my sinceire freinds will not thinke but I can
give some reason of my actions.  But of your mistaking aboute ye mater,
     & other things tending to this bussines, I shall nexte informe you
more distinctly.  Mean space entreate our freinds not to be too bussie in
answering matters, before they know them.  If I doe such things as I
canot give reasons for, it is like you have sett a foole aboute your
bussines, and so turne ye reproofe to your selves, & send an other, and
let me come againe to my Combes.  But setting aside my naturall
infirmities, I refuse not to have my cause judged, both of God, & all
indifferent men; and when we come togeather I shall give accounte of my
actions hear.  The Lord, who judgeth justly without respect of persons,
see into ye equitie of my cause, and give us quiet, peacable, and patient
minds, in all these turmoils, and sanctifie unto us all crosses
whatsoever.  And so I take my leave of you all, in all love & affection.
         I hope we shall gett all hear ready in 14. days.
                       Your pore brother,
                                 ROBART CUSHMAN.
[London]
June 11. 1620 [O.S.].


                                  VI
             A LETTER OF MR. JOHN ROBINSON TO JOHN CARVER,
                         JUNE 14. (N.S.), 1620

     [Professor Arber ("The Story of the Pilgrim Fathers," p. 317) has
     apparently failed to notice that in the original MS. of Bradford,
     this letter is dated "June 14, 1620, N. Stile," which would make it
     June 4., O.S., while Arber dates it "14/24 June," which is
     manifestly incorrect.  A typographical error in Arber (p. 317)
     directs the letter to "Leyden" instead of to London. ]


                                        June 14.  1620.  N. Stile.

My dear freind & brother, whom with yours I alwaise remember in my best
affection, and whose wellfare I shall never cease to comend to God by my
best & most earnest praires.  You doe throwly understand by our generall
letters ye estate of things hear, which indeed is very pitifull;
espetialy by wante of shiping, and not seeing means lickly, much less
certaine, of having it provided; though withall ther be great want of
money & means to doe needfull things.  Mr. [Edward] Pickering, you know
before this, will not defray a peny hear; though Robert Cushman presumed
of I know not how many 100li. from him, & I know not whom. Yet it seems
strange yt we should be put to him to receive both his & his partners
[William Greene's] adventer, and yet Mr. Weston write unto him, yt in
regard of it, he hath drawne upon him a 100li. more.  But they is in this
some misterie, as indeed it seems ther is in ye whole course.  Besids,
wheras diverse are to pay in some parts of their moneys yet behinde, they
refuse to doe it, till they see shiping provided, or a course taken for
it.  Neither doe I thinke is ther a man hear would pay anything, if he
had againe his money in his purse.  You know right well we depended on
Mr. Weston alone, and upon such means as he would procure for this
commone bussines; and when we had in hand an other course with ye
Dutchmen, broke it of at his motion, and upon ye conditions by him
shortly after propounded. He did this in his love I know, but things
appeare not answerable from him hitherto.  That he should have first have
put in his moneys, is thought by many to have been but fitt, but yt I can
well excuse, he being a marchante and haveing use of it to his benefite;
whereas others, if it had been in their hands, would have consumed it.
But yt he should not but have had either shipping ready before this time,
or at least certaine means, and course, and ye same knowne to us for it,
or have taken other order otherwise, cannot in my conscience be excused.
I have heard yt wen he hath been moved in the bussines, he hath put it of
from him selfe, and referred it to ye others; and would come to Georg
Morton [in London] & enquire news of him aboute things, as if he had
scarce been some accessarie unto it. Wlether he hath failed of some helps
from others which he expected, and so be not well able to goe through
with things, or whether he hath feared least you should be ready too
soone & so encrease ye charge of shiping above yt is meete, or whether he
hath thought by withhoulding to put us upon straits, thinking yt therby
Mr. Brewer and Mr. Pickering would be drawne by importunitie to doe more,
or what other misterie is in it, we know not; but sure we are yt things
are not answerable to such an occasion.  Mr. Weston maks himselfe mery
with our endeavors aboute buying a ship, [the SPEEDWELL], but we have
done nothing in this but with good reason, as I am perswaded, nor yet
that I know in any thing els, save in those tow: ye one, that we imployed
Robart Cushman, who is known (though a good man & of spetiall abilities
in his kind, yet) most unfitt to deale for other by reason of his
singularitie, and too great indifferancie for any conditions, and for (to
speak truly) that we have had nothing from him but termes & presumptions.
The other, yt we have so much relyed, by implicite faith as it were, upon
generalities, without seeing ye perticuler course & means for so waghtie
an affaire set down unto us.  For shiping, Mr. Weston, it should seeme,
is set upon hireing, which yet I wish he may presently effecte; but I see
litle hope of help from hence if so it be.  Of Mr. [Thomas] Brewer, you
know what to expecte.  I doe not thinke Mr. Pickering will ingage,
excepte in ye course of buying [ships?] in former letters specified.
Aboute ye conditions, you have our reason for our judgments of what is
agreed.  And let this spetially be borne in minde, yt the greatest pane
of ye Collonie is like to be imployed constantly, not upon dressing they
perticuler land & building houses, but upon fishing, trading, &c.  So as
ye land & house will be but a trifell for advantage to ye adventurers,
and yet the devission of it a great discouragmente to ye planters, who
would with singuler care make it comfortable with borowed houres from
their sleep.  The same consideration of comone imploymente constantly by
the most is a good reason not to have ye 2, daies in a week denyed ye few
planters for private use, which yet is subordinate to comone good.
Consider also how much unfite that you & your liks must serve a new
prentishipe of 7. years, and not a daies freedome from taske.  Send me
word what persons are to goe, who of usefull faculties, & how many, &
perticulerly of every thing.  I know you wante not a minde.  I am sorie
you have not been at London all this while, but ye provissions could not
want you.  Time will suffer me to write no more; fare, you & yours well
allways in ye Lord, in whom I rest.
                                   Yours to use,
                                             JOHN' ROBINSON.


                                  VII
                   THE LETTER OF THE PLANTERS TO THE
                MERCHANT ADVENTURERS (FROM SOUTHAMPTON)

                                        Aug. 3.  Ano.  1620.

Beloved freinds, sory we are that ther should be occasion of writing at
all unto you, partly because we ever expected to see ye most of you hear,
but espetially because ther should any difference at all be conceived
betweene us.  But seing it faleth out that we cannot conferr togeather,
we thinke it meete (though brefly) to show you ye just cause & reason of
our differing from those articles last made by Robert Cushman, without
our comission or knowledg.

And though he might propound good ends to himselfe, yet it no way
justifies his doing it.  Our maine diference is in ye 5.& 9. article,
concerning ye deviding or holding of house and lands; the injoying
whereof some of your selves well know, was one spetiall motive, amongst
many other, to provoke us to goe.  This was thought so reasonable, yt
when ye greatest of you in adventure (whom we have much cause to
respecte), when he propounded conditions to us freely of his owne
accorde, he set this downe for one; a coppy wherof we have sent unto you,
with some additions then added by us; which being liked on both sids, and
a day set for ye paimente of moneys, those in Holland paid in theirs.
After yt, Robert Cushman, Mr. [John] Pierce, & Mr. [Christopher] Martine,
brought them into a better forme, & write them in a booke now extante;
and upon Robarts [Cushmans] shewing them and delivering Mr. [William]
Mullins a coppy thereof under his hand (which we have), he payed in his
money.  And we of Holland had never seen other before our coming to
Hamton, but only as one got for him selfe a private coppy of them; upon
sight wherof we manyfested uter dislike, but had put of our estats & were
ready to come, and therfore was too late to rejecte ye vioage.  Judge
therefore we beseech you indifferently of things, and if a faulte have
bene comited, lay it where it is, & not upon us, who have more cause to
stand for ye one, then you have for ye other.  We never gave Robart
Cushman comission to make any one article for us, but only sent him to
receive moneys upon articles before agreed on, and to further ye
provissions till John Carver came, and to assiste him in it.  Yet since
you conceive your selves wronged as well as we, we thought meete to add a
branch to ye end of our 9. article, as will allmost heale that wound of
it selfe, which you conceive to be in it.  But that it may appeare to all
men yt we are not lovers of our selves only, but desire also ye good &
inriching of our freinds who have adventured your moneys with our
persons, we have added our last article to ye rest, promising you againe
by leters in ye behalfe of the whole company, that if large profits
should not arise within ye 7. years, yt we will continue togeather longer
with you, if ye Lord give a blessing.--[Bradford adds in a note, "It is
well for them yt this was not accepted."]--This we hope is sufficente to
satisfie any in this case, espetialy freinds, since we are asured yt if
the whole charge was devided into 4. parts, 3. of them will not stand
upon it, nether doe regarde it, &c.  We are in shuch a streate at
presente, as we are forced to sell away 60li. worth of our provissions to
cleare ye Haven [Southampton & withall put our selves upon great
extremities, scarce haveing any butter, no oyle, not a sole to mend a
shoe, nor every man a sword to his side, wanting many muskets, much
armoure, etc. And yet we are willing to expose our selves to shuch
eminente dangers as are like to insue, & trust to ye good providence of
God, rather then his name & truth should be evill spoken of for us.  Thus
saluting all of you in love, and beseeching ye Lord to give a blesing to
our endeavore, and keepe all our harts in ye bonds of peace & love, we
take leave & rest,
                         Yours, &c

Aug.  3. 1620.

     ["It was subscribed with many names of ye cheefest of ye company."
     --Bradford, "Historie," Mass.  ed.  p. 77.]


                                  VIII
            THE LETTER OF ROBERT CUSHMAN (FROM SOUTHAMPTON)
                          TO EDWARD SOUTHWORTH

To his loving friend Ed[ward] S[outhworth] at Henige House, in ye Duks
Place [London], these, &c.

                         Dartmouth [Thursday] Aug. 17, [Anno 1620.]

Loving friend, my most kind remembrance to you & your wife, with loving
E. M. &c.  whom in this world I never looke to see againe.  For besids ye
eminente dangers of this viage, which are no less then deadly, an
infirmitie of body Hath seased me, which will not in all licelyhoode
leave me till death.  What to call it I know not, but it it is a bundle
of lead, as it were, crushing my harte more & more these 14. days, as
that allthough I doe ye acctions of a liveing man, yet I am but as dead;
but ye will of God be done.  Our pinass [the SPEEDWELL] will not cease
leaking, els I thinke we had been halfe way at Virginia, our viage hither
hath been as full of crosses, as our, selves have been of crokednes.  We
put in hear to trime her, & I thinke, as others also, if we had stayed at
sea but 3. or 4. howers more, shee would have sunke right downe.  And
though she was twice trimed at Hamton, yet now shee is open and lekie as
a seine; and ther was a borde, a man might have puld of with his fingers,
2 foote longe, wher ye water came in as at a mole hole.  We lay at Hamton
7. days, in fair weather, waiting for her, and now we lye hear waiting
for her in as faire a wind as can blowe, and so have done these 4. days,
and are like to lye 4. more, and by yt time ye wind will happily turne as
it did at Hamton.  Our victualls will be halfe eaten up, I thinke, before
we goe from the coaste of England, and if our viage last longe, we shall
not have a months victialls when we come in ye countrie.  Near 700li.
hath bene bestowed at Hamton upon what I know not.  Mr. Martin saith he
neither can nor will give any accounte of it, and if he be called upon
for accounts he crieth out of unthankfulness for his paines & care, that
we are susspitious of him, and flings away, and will end nothing.  Also
he so insulteh over our poore people with shuch scorne and contempte, as
if they were not good enough to wipe his shoes.  It would break your hart
to see his dealing, and ye mourning of our people.  They complaine to me,
& alass!  I can doe nothing for them; if I speake to him, he flies in my
face, as mutinous, and saith no complaints shall be heard or received but
by him selfe, and saith they are forwarde, & waspish, discontented
people, & I doe ill to hear them.  Ther are others yt would lose all they
have put in, or make satisfaction for what they have had, that they might
departe; but he will not hear them, nor suffer them to goe ashore, least
they should rune away. The sailors also are so offended at his ignorante
bouldnes, in medling & controuling in things he knows not what belongs
too, as yt some threaten to misscheefe him, others say they will leave ye
shipe & goe their way.  But at ye best this cometh of it, yt he maks him
selfe a scorne & laughing stock unto them.  As for Mr. Weston, excepte
grace doe greatly swaye with him, he will hate us ten times more then
ever he loved us, for not confirming ye conditions.  But now, since some
pinches have taken them, they begine to reveile ye trueth, and say Mr.
Robinson was in ye falte who charged them never to consente to those
conditions, nor chuse me into office, but indeede apointed them to chose
them they did chose.  But he and they will rue too late, they may now
see, & all be ashamed when it is too late, that they were so ignorante,
yea, & so inordinate in their courses.  I am sure as they were resolved
not to seale those conditions, I was not so resolute at Hamton to have
left ye whole bussines, excepte they would seale them, and better ye
vioage to have bene broken of then, then to have brought such miserie to
our selves, dishonour to God, & detrimente to our loving freinds, as now
it is like to doe.  4. or 5. of ye cheefe of them which came from Leyden,
came resolved never to goe on those conditions.  And Mr. Martine, he said
he never received no money on those conditions, he was not beholden to ye
marchants, for a pine [pennie], they were bloudsuckers, & I know not
what.  Simple man, he indeed never made any conditions wth the marchants,
nor ever spake with them.

But did all that money flie to Hamton, or was it his owne?  Who will goe
lay out money so rashly & lavishly as he did, and never know how he comes
by it, or on what conditions?  I tould him of ye alteration longe
agoe, & he was contente; but now he dominires, & said I had betrayed them
into ye hands of slaves; he is not beholden to them, he can set out 2
ships him selfe to a viage.  When, good man?  He hath but 50li. in, & if
he should give up his accounts he would not have a penie left him,--
["This  was  found  true  afterwards.   W(illiam]  B"[radford]]--as I
am persuaded, &c.  Freind, if ever we make a plantation, God works a
mirakle; especially considering how scante we shall be of victualls, and
most of all ununited amongst our selves, & devoyd of good tutors and
regimente.  Violence will break all.  Wher is ye meek & humble spirite of
Moyses? & of Nehemiah who reedified ye wals of Jerusalem, and ye state of
Israell?  Is not ye sound of Rehoboams braggs daly hear amongst us?  Have
not ye philosophers and all wise men observed yt, even in setled comone
welths, violente governours bring either them selves, or people, or
boath, to ruine; how much more in ye raising of comone wealths, when ye
mortar is yet scarce tempered yt should bind ye wales [walls].  If I
should write to you of all things which promiscuously forerune our ruine,
I should over charge my weake head and greeve your tender hart; only
this, I pray you prepare for evill tidings of us every day.  But pray for
us instantly, it may be ye Lord will be yet entreated one way or other to
make for us.  I see not in reason how we shall escape even ye gasping of
hunger starved persons; but God can doe much, & his will be done.  It is
better for me to dye, then now for me to bear it, which I doe daly, &
expect it howerly; haveing received ye sentance of death, both within me
& with out me.  Poore William Ring & my selfe doe strive who shall be
meate first for ye fishes; but we looke for a glorious resurrection,
knowing Christ Jesus after ye flesh no more, but looking unto ye joye yt
is before us, we will endure all these things and accounte them light in
comparison of ye joye we hope for.  Remember me in all love to our
freinds as if I named them, whose praiers I desire earnestly, & wish
againe to see, but not till I can with more comforte looke them in ye
face.  The Lord give us that true comforte which none can take from us.
I had a desire to make a breefe relation of our estate to some freind.
I doubte not but your wisdome will teach you seasonably to utter things
as here after you shall be called to it.  That which I have writen is
treue, & many things more which I have for borne.  I write it as upon my
life, and last confession in England.  What is of use to be spoken of
presently, you may speake of it, and what is fitt to conceile, conceall.
Pass by my weake maner, for my head is weake, and my body feeble, ye Lord
make me strong in him, and keepe both you & yours.
                              Your loving freind,
                                        ROBART CUSHMAN.

Dartmouth, Aug. 17, 1620.


                                  IX
                        THE MAY-FLOWER COMPACT

In ye name of God, Amen.  We whose names are underwriten, the loyall
subjects of our dread soveraigne Lord, King James, by ye grace of God, of
Great Britaine, Franc, & Ireland king, defender of ye faith, &c., haveing
under taken, for ye glorie of God, and advancemente of ye Christian
faith, and honour of our king & countrie, a voyage to plant ye first
colonie in ye Northerne parts of Virginia, doe by these presents solemnly
& mutualy in ye presence of God, and one of another, covenant & combine
our selves together into a civill body politick, for our better ordering
& preservation & furtherance of ye ends aforesaid: and by vertue hearof
to enacte, constitute, and frame such just & equall lawes, ordinances,
actes, constitutions, & offices, from time to time, as shall be thought
most meete & convenient for ye generall good of ye Colonie, unto which we
promise all due submission and obedience.  In witnes wherof we have here
under subscribed our names at Cape-Codd ye 11. of November, in ye year of
ye raigne of our soveraigne lord, King James, of England, France, &
Ireland ye eighteenth, and of Scotland ye fiftie fourth.  Ano. Dom. 1620


                                   X
       A COPY OF THE NUNCUPATIVE WILL OF MASTER WILLIAM MULLENS

     [Undoubtedly taken by Governor Carver on board the MAY-FLOWER.]

     [Although the dictation must, apparently, have been taken on the day
     of Master Mullens's death, February 21/March 3, 1620, Governor
     Carver evidently did not write out his notes, and have them
     witnessed, till April 2, 1621, some weeks later.]

                                                       "April, 1621.

In the name of God, Amen: I comfit my Soule to God that gave it and my
bodie to the earth from whence it came. Alsoe I give my goodes as
followeth: That fforty poundes wch is in the hand of good-man Woodes I
give my wife tenn poundes, my sonne Joseph tenn poundes, my daughter
Priscilla tenn poundes, and my eldest sonne tenn poundes. Alsoe I give to
my eldest sonne all my debtes, bonds, bills (onelye yt forty poundes
excepted in the handes of goodman Wood) given as aforesaid wth all the
stock in his owne handes.  To my eldest daughter I give ten shillinges to
be paied out of my sonnes stock Furthermore that goodes I have in
Virginia as followeth To my wife Alice halfe my goodes.  2. to Joseph and
Priscilla the other halfe equallie to be devided betweene them.  Alsoe I
have xxi dozen of shoes, and thirteene paire of bootes wch I give into
the Companies handes for forty poundes at seaven years end if they like
them at that rate.  If it be thought to deare as my Overseers shall
thinck good.  And if they like them at that rate at the devident I shall
have nyne shares whereof I give as followeth twoe to my wife, twoe to my
sonne William, twoe to my sonne Joseph, towe to my daughter Priscilla,
and one to the Companie.  Allsoe if my sonne William will come to
Virginia I give him my share of land furdermore I give to my two
Overseers Mr. John Carver and Mr. Williamson, twentye shillinges apeece
to see this my will performed desiringe them that he would have an eye
over my wife and children to be as fathers and freindes to them, Allsoe
to have a speciall eye to my man Robert wch hathe not so approved
himselfe as I would he should have done."

This is a Coppye of Mr. Mullens his Will of all particulars he hathe
given.  In witnes whereof I have sette my hande John Carver, Giles Heale,
Christopher Joanes."


                                   XI
           THE LETTER OF "ONE OF THE CHIEFE OF YE COMPANIE"
                      [THE MERCHANT ADVENTURERS]
                    DATED AT LONDON, APRIL 9, 1623

Loving friend, when I write my last leter, I hope to have received one
from you well-nigh by this time.  But when I write in Des: I little
thought to have seen Mr. John Pierce till he had brought some good
tidings from you.  But it pleased God, he brought us ye wofull tidings of
his returne when he was half-way over, by extraime tempest, werin ye
goodnes & mercie of God appeared in sparing their lives, being 109.
souls.  The loss is so great to Mr. Pierce &c., and ye companie put upon
so great charge, as veryly, &c. Now with great trouble & loss, we have
got Mr. John Pierce to assigne over ye grand patente to ye companie,
which he had taken in his owne name, and made quite voyd our former
grante.  I am sorie to writ how many hear thinke yt the hand of God was
justly against him, both ye first and 2. time of his returne; in regard
he, whom you and we so confidently trusted, but only to use his name for
ye com pany, should aspire to be lord over us all, and so make you & us
tenants at his will and pleasure, our assurance or patente being quite
voyd & disanuled by his means.  I desire to judg charitably of him.  But
his unwillingness to part with his royall lordship, and ye high rate he
set it at, which was 500li.  which cost him but 50li., maks many speake
and judg hardly of him.  The company are out for goods in his ship, with
charge aboute ye passengers, 640li., &c.

We have agreed with 2 merchants for a ship of 140 tunes, caled ye Anne,
which is to be ready ye last of this month, to bring 60 passengers &
60 tune of goods, &c--[Bradford, Historie, Mass.  ed.  p. 167.]


ADDENDA

Governor Winslow, in his "Hypocrisie Unmasked" (pp. 89,90), indicates
that the representatives of the Leyden congregation (Cushman and Carver)
sought the First (or London) Virginia Company as early as 1613.  It is
beyond doubt that preliminary steps toward securing the favor, both of
the King and others, were taken as early as 1617, and that the Wincob
Patent was granted in their interest, June 9/19, 1619.  But the Leyden
people were but little advanced by the issue of this Patent.  They became
discouraged, and began early in 1620 (perhaps earlier) negotiations with
the Dutch, which were in progress when, at the instance of Sir Ferdinando
Gorges, Thomas Weston undertook (February 2/12, April 1/11, 1620) to
secure the Leyden party, avowedly for the London Virginia Company, but
really for its rival, the Second Virginia Company, soon to be merged in
the "Council of Affairs for New England."  It was then, and under these
influences, that the Leyden leaders "broke off," as Bradford puts it,
their negotiations with the Dutch authorities, who, however, apparently
about the same time, determined to reject their propositions.  While the
renewal of the Leyden leaders' negotiations, through Weston, were, "on
their face" (and so far as the Pilgrims were concerned), with the First
Virginia Company, with whom, through Sir Edwin Sandys and other friends,
their original efforts were made, they were, as stated, subverted by
Gorges's plans and Weston's cooperation, in the interest of the Second
Virginia Company.  The Merchant Adventurers were represented, in the
direct negotiations for the Patent only, by John Pierce, who, at that
time, was apparently dealing honestly, and was not, so far as appears,
in Gorges's confidence, though later he proved a traitor and a consummate
rascal, albeit he always acted, apparently, alone.  The so-called "Pierce
Patent" (which displaced the Wincob) was rendered worthless by the
landing of the Pilgrims north of 41 deg. north latitude.  The third
Patent (Pierce's second) was from the Council for New England to Pierce,
for the colonists, but was exchanged by him for a "deed-pole" to himself,
though at last surrendered to the colony under stress.




ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

All business without any agreement in writing
Borowed houres from their sleep
Not to be too bussie in answering matters, before they know them
Redier to goe to dispute, then to sett forwarde
Sorie I am to hear it, yet contente to beare it
Thinke ye best of all, and bear with patience what is wanting