    But as the first step is COLLECTION--and that step is the one in which
    the SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES can best move, we trust that the present
    year, in which this Society celebrates the centenary of its chartered
    existence, will be signalised by its promotion of such a Record of
    Existing Monuments as is here proposed; which cannot be otherwise
    regarded--(and we use the words of the Society's Charter)--than as
    "good, useful, honest, and necessary for the encouragement,
    advancement, and furtherance of the study and knowledge of Antiquities
    and the History of this Country."

       *       *       *       *       *


Notes

ILLUSTRATIONS OF CHAUCER, NO. IV.

_The Pilgrimage to Canterbury._

 "Whanne that April with his shoures sote
  The droughte of March hath perced to the rote,
  And bathed every veine in swiche licour
  Of which vertue engendred is the flour;
  When Zephyrus eke with his sote brethe
  Enspired hath in every holt and hethe
  The tendre croppes--and the yonge Sonne
  Hath in the Ram his halfe cours yronne;
      *    *    *    *
  Than longen folk to gon on pilgrimages--
      *    *    *    *
      *    *    *    *
  Befelle, that in that seson, on a day."--_Prologue._

I quote these lines because I wish to show that Tyrwhitt, in taking them as
indicative of the very day on which the journey to Canterbury was
performed, committed a great mistake.

The whole of the opening of the prologue, down to the line last quoted, is
descriptive, not of any particular day, but of the usual season of
pilgrimages; and Chaucer himself plainly declares, by the words "in _that_
seson, on _a_ day"--that the day is _as yet_ indefinite. {316}

But because Tyrwhitt, who, although an excellent literary critic, was by no
means an acute reader of his author's meaning, was incapable of
appreciating the admirable combination of physical facts by which Chaucer
has not only identified the real day of the pilgrimage, but has placed it,
as it were, beyond the danger of alteration by any possible corruption in
the text, he set aside these physical facts altogether, and took in lieu of
them the seventh and eighth lines of the prologue quoted above, which, I
contend, Chaucer did not intend to bear any reference to the day of the
journey itself, but only to the general season in which it was undertaken.

But Tyrwhitt, having seized upon a favourite idea, seems to have been
determined to carry it through, at any cost, even at that of altering the
text from "_the Ram_" into "_the Bull_:" and I fear that he can scarcely be
acquitted of unfair and intentional misquotation of Chaucer's words, by
transposing "his halfe cours" into "half his course," which is by no means
an equivalent expression. Here are his own words:

    "When he (Chaucer) tells us that 'the shoures of April had _perced to
    the rote_ the drought of March' (ver. 1, 2.), we must suppose, in order
    to allow due time for such an operation, that April was far advanced;
    while, on the other hand, the place of the sun, 'having just run _half
    his course in the Ram_' (ver. 7, 8.), restrains us to some day in the
    very latter end of March. This difficulty may, and, I think, should, be
    removed by reading in ver. 8. the BULL, instead of the RAM. All the
    parts of the description will then be consistent with themselves, and
    with another passage (ver. 4425.), where, in the best MSS., the _eighte
    and twenty_ day of April is named as the day of the journey to
    Canterbury."--_Introductory Discourse._

Accordingly, Mr. Tyrwhitt did not hesitate to adopt in his text the
twenty-eighth of April as the true date, without stopping to examine
whether that day would, or would not, be consistent with the subsequent
phenomena related by Chaucer.

Notwithstanding Tyrwhitt's assertion of a difficulty only removable by
changing the Ram into the Bull, there are no less than two ways of
understanding the seventh and eighth lines of the prologue so as to be
perfectly in accordance with the rest of the description. One of these
would be to suppose the sign Aries divided into two portions (not
necessarily _equal_ in the phraseology of the time), one of which would
appertain to March, anal the other to April--and that Chaucer, by the
"halfe cours yronne," meant the _last_, or _the April_, half of the sign
Aries. But I think a more probable supposition still would be to imagine
the month of April, of which Chaucer was speaking, to be divided into two
"halfe cours," in one of which the sun would be in Aries, and in the other
in Taurus; and that when Chaucer says that "the yonge Sonne had in the Ram
his halfe cours yronne," he meant that the _Aries half of the month of
April_ had been run through, thereby indicating _in general terms_ some
time approaching to the middle of April.

Both methods of explaining the phrase lead eventually to the same result,
which is also identical with the interpretation of Chaucer's own
contemporaries, as appears in its imitation by Lydgate in the opening of
his "Story of Thebes:"

 "Whan bright Phebus passed was the Ram,
  Midde of Aprill, and into the Bull came."

And it is by no means the least remarkable instance of want of perception
in Tyrwhitt, that he actually cites these two lines of Lydgate's _as
corroborative of his own interpretation_, which places the sun _in the
middle of Taurus_.

I enter into this explanation, not that I think it necessary to examine too
curiously into the consistency of an expression which evidently was
intended only in a general sense, but that the groundlessness of Tyrwhitt's
alleged necessity for the alteration of "the Ram" into "the Bull" might
more clearly appear.

I have said that Tyrwhitt was not a competent critic of Chaucer's practical
science, and I may perhaps be expected to point out some other instance of
his failure in that respect than is afforded by the subject itself. This I
may do by reference to a passage in "The Marchante's Tale," which evinces a
remarkable want of perception not only in Tyrwhitt, but in all the editors
of Chaucer that I have had an opportunity of consulting.

The morning of the garden scene is said in the text to be "er that dayes
eight were passed of the month of _Juil_"--but, a little further on, the
same day is thus described:

 "Bright was the day and blew the firmament,
  Phebus of gold his stremes doun hath sent
  To gladen every flour with his warmnesse;
  He was that time in Geminis, I gesse,
  But litel fro his declination
  In Cancer."

How is it possible that any person could read these lines and not be struck
at once with the fact that they refer to the 8th of _June_ and not to the
8th of _July_? The sun would leave Gemini and enter Cancer on the 12th of
June; Chaucer was describing the 8th, and with his usual accuracy he places
the sun "but litel fro" _the summer solstice_!

Since "Juil" is an error common perhaps to all previous editions, Tyrwhitt
might have been excused for repeating it, if he had been satisfied with
only that: but he must signalise _his edition_ by inserting in the Glossary
attached to it--"JUIL, _the month of July_," referring, as the sole {317}
authority for the word, to this very line in question of "The Marchante's
Tale!"

Nor does the proof, against him in particular, end even there; he further
shows that his attention must have been especially drawn to this garden
scene by his assertion that Pluto and Proserpine were the prototypes of
Oberon and Titania; and yet he failed to notice a circumstance that would
have added some degree of plausibility to the comparison, namely, that
Chaucer's, as well as Shakspeare's, was a _Midsummer Dream_.

It is, perhaps, only justice to Urry to state that _he_ appears to have
been aware of the error that would arise from attributing such a situation
of the sun to the month of July. The manner in which the lines are printed
in _his_ edition is this:--

                 "ere the dayis eight
  Were passid, er' the month July befill."

It is just possible to twist the meaning of this into _the eighth of the
Kalends of July_, by which the blunder would be in some degree lessened;
but such a reading would be as foreign to Chaucer's astronomy as the lines
themselves are to his poetry.

A. E. B.

Leeds, April 8. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ACADEMIES OF SIR FRANCIS KYNASTON AND SIR BALTHAZAR GERBIER.

Among the many interesting associations connected with old Covent Garden
and its neighbourhood, we ought not to overlook Sir Francis Kynaston's
"Museum Minervæ."

In the year 1635, King Charles the First granted his letters patent to Sir
Francis Kynaston, "Esquire of the body to his Majesty," whereby a house in
Covent Garden, which Sir Francis had purchased, and furnished with books,
manuscripts, musical and mathematical instruments, paintings, statues,
antiques, &c., was appropriated for ever as a college for the education of
the young, nobility, and others, under the name of the "Museum Minervæ."
Sir Francis Kynaston was made the governor with the title of "regent;"
Edward May, Thomas Hunt, Nicholas Phiske, John Spidell, Walter Salter,
Michael Mason, fellows and professors of philosophy and medicine, music,
astronomy, geometry, languages, &c. They had power to elect professors also
of horsemanship, dancing, painting, engraving, &c.; were made a body
corporate, were permitted to use a common seal, and to possess goods and
lands in mortmain. (Pat. 11 Car. pt. 8. No. 14.) In the following year,
1636, was published, dedicated to the "Regent and Professors," _The
Constitutions of the Museum Minervæ; giving an Account of an Academy for
teaching chiefly Navigation, Riding, Fortification, Architecture, Painting,
and other useful Accomplishments_.

The "Museum" seems to have been highly patronised, for we find that on the
27th February, 1635 (the year of its foundation), Prince Charles, the Duke
of York, and the Lady Mary their sister, honoured it with their presence to
witness a masque, entitled "Corona Minervæ," which was written and prepared
for the occasion by Sir Francis Kynaston. This masque was, I believe,
printed in the year of its production, but I do not find it mentioned in
the last edition of the _Biographia Dramatica_.

Mr. Cunningham, in his _Handbook of London_, mentions (p. 42.) that

    "Sir Francis Kynaston, the poet, was living in Covent Garden in 1636,
    on the east side of the street towards Berrie" (Bedfordbury).

And again, in his notice of Bedford Street (p. 44.), he says, Sir Francis
resided "on the west side in 1637." Both these entries refer to the same
residence--a noble mansion, built in the year 1594, which, after being
inhabited by several important families, finally passed into the possession
of Sir Francis Kynaston, who altered and adapted it (rebuilding some
portions) as the college of the "Museum Minervæ." The ground plan, which is
now before me, exhibits a well-arranged and commodious building with two
fronts, one in what is now Bedfordbury, and the other (probably added by
Sir Francis) in the street now called Bedford Street. The building, when
Sir Francis Kynaston purchased it in 1634, stood in the centre of a large
garden. The surrounding streets,--King Street, New Street, Bedford Street,
Chandos Street, Henrietta Street, and Bedfordbury, were not commenced
building until the year 1637.

The "Museum Minervæ" is not named in Mr. Cunningham's excellent _Handbook_;
but when we take into consideration the enormous amount of information
required for a work of the kind, we ought not to blame the author for a few
trifling omissions.

Sir Balthazar Gerbier, an enterprising projector of the same century, by
profession a painter and an architect, but now scarcely remembered as
either, seems to have imitated the "Museum Minervæ" in an academy opened at
Bethnal Green in 1649. Here, in addition to the more common branches of
education, he professed to teach astronomy, navigation, architecture,
perspective, drawing, limning, engraving, fortification, fireworks,
military discipline, the art of well speaking and civil conversation,
history, constitutions and maxims of state, and particular dispositions of
nations, "riding the great horse," &c. Once in each week, at three o'clock
in the afternoon, Sir Balthazar gave a public lecture gratis on the various
sciences. The lectures were {318} generally advertised in the _Perfect
Diurnal_, and a few curious specimens of these advertisements may be seen
in Lysons' _Environs of London_, ed. 1795, vol. ii. p. 30.

Balthazar Gerbier was born at Antwerp about 1591, came young into England,
and was a retainer of the Duke of Buckingham as early as 1613. Upon the
accession of Charles the First, he was employed in Flanders to negociate
privately a treaty with Spain. In 1628 he was knighted at Hampton Court;
and, as he says himself in one of his books, was promised by the king the
office of surveyor-general of the works, after the death of Inigo Jones. In
1637 he was employed in some private transactions of state; and on the 13th
of July, 1641, he took the oaths of allegiance and supremacy, having a bill
of naturalisation. In 1648 he appears to have projected the above-named
academy, the failure of which very soon happened. Sir Balthazar then went
to America, where he seems to have been very ill treated by the Dutch, and
narrowly escaped with his life. He afterwards returned to England, and
designed the triumphal arch for the reception of Charles the Second. He
died at Hempsted-marshal, in 1667, whilst engaged in superintending the
mansion of Lord Craven, and was buried in the chancel of that church.

In conclusion, it may be as well to mention, that, prior to the
establishment of the "Museum Minervæ," a committee had been appointed in
the House of Lords, consisting of the Duke of Buckingham and others, for
taking into consideration the state of the public schools, and method of
education. What progress was made in this inquiry is not known, but in all
probability the academies of Sir Francis Kynaston and Sir Balthazar Gerbier
owed their origin to the meetings of this committee.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE AND FLETCHER.

I feel greatly obliged to your correspondent C. B. for the attention he has
bestowed on the question of Fletcher's connexion with _Henry VIII._, as it
is only through the concurrent judgments of those who think the subject
worthy of their full and impartial consideration, that we can hope to
arrive at the truth. His remarks (Vol. iii., p. 190.) are the more
valuable, as they coincide with a doubt in my own mind, which has, to a
great extent, ripened since I last communicated with you on the subject;
and, indeed, I have no need to hesitate in saying, that I had more
difficulty in coming to a conclusion with regard to the scene (Act III. Sc.
2.) in which the passages occur quoted by C. B., than with any other scene
in the whole play. The suggestions, that Shakspeare might have touched
scenes of which the mass had been written by Fletcher, is a point which I
had not overlooked, and which indeed, to some extent, might be said to
follow from the view I took of the relation of Shakspeare and Fletcher as
master and scholar. Yet this suggestion is especially valuable regarding
this scene, and may account for that which, without it, is not so easily
explained.

If, however, there be any lurking notion in your correspondent's mind, that
the scene in _Antony and Cleopatra_ (Act III. Sc. 1) referred to by X. Z.
(Vol. iii., p. 139.) is, judging from certain coincidences of expression,
an interpolation, and not by Shakspeare, I beg at once to be allowed to
express my total dissent from such a view. Whether, also, there may have
been any secondary allusion to some known event of the day, as X. Z.
supposes, and as is by no means improbable, I cannot say; but I protest
against its being said that the scene referred to is "totally unconnected
with what goes before, and what follows." Antony is the hero of the play;
and this scene shows the culminating point of Antony's fortunes, when his
very successes turn against him.

To return to _Henry VIII._, the compliment to the Queen, to which your
correspondent refers, is, as he very justly observes, brought in in a very
forced manner. This, to my mind, is very strong evidence; otherwise I
should not think it unworthy of Shakspeare. And it still has to be borne in
mind, that he would have had to accommodate his characters and
circumstances to the views of another writer. Shakspeare's spirit was too
catholic, too universal, to have allowed, in a work entirely his own, even
his Wolsey to have made use of the term "a spleeny Lutheran;" yet neither
in the passage in which this expression occurs, nor in the one above
referred to, is the versification characteristic of Fletcher. For my own
part, however, I cannot recognise Shakspeare's spirit in this antagonism of
creeds, which is, perhaps, even more strongly displayed in the prophetic
speech of Cranmer's in the last scene, wherein he says, "God shall be truly
known!" It may be said, that in both these instances the expressions are
true to the characters of Wolsey and Cranmer. It may be so; for both are
wanting in that ideal elevation which Shakspeare never fails to give. That,
with this reservation, he becomes the mouth-piece of each character, is
most true; and a curious instance of the writer's utter forgetfulness of
his assumed character of contemporary with the events he is relating,
occurring in Act. IV. Sc. 2 where Griffiths says--

 "He was most princely: ever witness for him
  Those twins of learning, that he rais'd in you,
  Ipswich and Oxford! _one of which fell with him_,
  Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;
  The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,
  So excellent in art, _and still so rising_,"--

{319} has no parallel in Shakspeare's works. To John Fletcher, indeed, at
the close of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, these things were known; but
scarcely to the attendant of Queen Katherine, who has but just narrated the
circumstances, then newly happened, of Wolsey's fall. On maturer
consideration, then, I am inclined to think that the whole of the scene
(Act III. Sc. 2.) to which your correspondent refers, was originally
written by Fletcher, although, as it now stands, it is strongly marked by
the hand of Shakspeare. In the same category, also, I am inclined to place
Scenes 3. and 4. of Act II. It will be observed that these changes are not
inconsistent with the view I had previously taken; the effect being merely,
that I am inclined to ascribe a little more than in the first instance to
the hitherto unsuspected participator in the work. I am not sure, too, that
I shall not be coming nearer to MR. SPEDDING; as, if I am not mistaken, it
is in some of these scenes that he imagines he detects "a third hand;" a
theory which, though I do not adopt, I certainly have not confidence enough
to reject altogether. But this view affects so very small a portion of the
play, that it is of very little consequence.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ILLUSTRATIONS OF TENNYSON.

That great poets are sometimes obscure, needs no proof. That the greatest
poets will necessarily be so to the ordinary reader, seems to me equally
indisputable.

Not without effort can one enter into the spontaneous thought of another,
or even of himself in another mood. How much more when that other is
distinguished from his fellows by the _greatness_ and _singularity_ of his
thoughts, and by the extreme subtilty of their connecting links. Obscurity
is not a blemish but an excellence, if the pains of seeking are more than
compensated by the pleasures of finding, the luxury of [Greek: mathêsis],
where the concentrated energy of a passage, when once understood, gives it
a hold on the imagination and memory such as were ill sacrificed to more
diluted clearness.

_Grandis præfatio tenui incepto_--a sort of apology to Tennyson for
implying that he needs illustration. Some time ago I made a few notes on
particular passages in _Locksley Hall_, which I now enclose. Some of them
are, I dare say, superfluous--some, possibly, erroneous. If so, they will
stand a fair chance of being corrected in your valuable publication.

By the bye, if a "NOTES AND QUERIES" had existed in the days of Æschylus,
we might have been saved from many a recourse to "corrupt text" and "lacunæ
admodum deflendæ."

_Notes on Locksley Hall._

Stanza 2. "Dreary gleams:" in apposition with "curlews." I know the
construction of this line has puzzled a good many readers.

Stanza 23. "Yet it shall be." Yet "decline" thou certainly wilt.

Stanza 28. "He will answer," &c. With an oath, it may be--at the least with
a coarse rebuff.

Stanza 29. "The heart's disgrace." The disgrace, the injury, and
degradation the heart has suffered--its prostitution to a mercenary service
by a marriage of interest.

Stanza 34. "Never." Alas! I never can.

Stanza 35. "In division of the records of the mind." In dividing my
recollections of her into two groups, and erasing the one.

Stanza 38. "The poet is" (as I think has been already pointed out) Dante.

Stanza 40. "He hunts," &c. He--thy husband.

Stanza 42. "Never, never," &c. Never again! (joys never to return) sung by
the ghosts of years departed.

Stanza 51. "I have but an angry fancy"--my only _qualification_.

Stanza 53. "But the jingling of the guinea," &c. But there is no fighting
now: the nations get over their quarrels in another way--by the jingling of
the guinea, instead of the clang of arms.

Stanzas 54. "Mother-age."; 93. "Mother-age, for mine I know not."

This mother-age is a great difficulty. At first I took it for _the past of
history_, but now understand by it _the past of his own life_, at least its
earliest and brightest period--that age which had been as a mother, the
only mother he ever knew.

Stanza 70. "Youthful joys." The bright hopes of his youth. (?)

Stanza 75. "Blinder motions," Less rational, less well-guided emotions.

Stanza 91. "The distance." The distant future, the "good time coming."

There are some lines in _In Memoriam_ (I have not the book at hand, but any
reader thereof will instantly recollect them), which indicate Tennyson's
acquaintance with and appreciation of Jeremy Taylor, who thus expresses the
thoughts of the "wild fellow in Petronius," suggested by the sight of a
floating corpse.

    "That peradventure this man's wife, in some part of the Continent, safe
    and warm, looks next month for the good man's return or, it may be, his
    son knows nothing of the tempest: or his father thinks of that
    affectionate kiss which is still warm upon the good old man's cheek
    ever since he took a kind farewell; and he weeps with joy to think how
    blessed he shall be when his beloved boy returns into the circle of his
    father's arms."--_Holy Dying._

Compare with "Sure never moon to evening," &c., in the same poem, and I
think the same place: {320}

 "Nec nox ulla diem, neque noctem aurora secuta est,
  Quæ non audierit mistos vagitibus ægris
  Ploratus mortis comites, et funeris atri."--_Lucretius_, ii. 579.

G. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

_Sacramental Wine_ (Vol. iii., p. 179.).--From a note by MR. ALBERT WAY, on
the use of sacramental wine, one would be led to infer that it was
recommended on account of some superstitious belief in its superior
excellency from having been used in religious worship; but I would suggest
that the same reasons which recommend Teynt wine, the kind generally used
for the Sacrament, are those which have established for it a reputation in
cases of sickness: these are its rich red colour, and sweet and agreeable
flavour.

Weakness is popularly supposed to be caused by a thinness and want of
blood; if wine be recommended for this, there is a deeply rooted prejudice
in favour of red wine because the blood is red, and upon no better
principle than that which prescribes the yellow bark of the barberry for
the yellow state of jaundice; the nettle, for the nettle-rash; and the
navel-wort (_Cotyledon umbilicus_), for weakness about the umbilical
region. The truth is, that rustic practice is much influenced by the
doctrine of similitudes, the principle of "_similia similibus curantur_"
having been more extensively recognised in the olden time than since the
days of Hahnemann.

The sweetness of Teynt wine would recommend it for children, to whom a
stronger wine is generally distasteful; but Port is generally prescribed as
a tonic for adults.

It may further be remarked, that the recommendation to give Sacramental
wine might arise from the fact, that, as in some parishes more wine is
provided than is required, the remainder is put by to be given to the poor
who may require it at the hands of the clergyman.

In sending these remarks, I am led to request that your correspondents
would make Notes upon such old wives' remedies as are employed upon the
principles I have mentioned.

JAMES BUCKMAN.

Cirencester, April 12.

_Cure of Disease by means of Sheep._--A child in my parish has been for
some time afflicted with disease of some of the respiratory organs. The
mother was recommended to have it carried through a flock of sheep as they
were let out of the fold in the morning. The time was considered to be of
importance.

[Hebrew: B].

L---- Rectory, Somerset.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT INEDITED BALLADS, NO. IV.

I next transcribe the following lines from the same MS. as my last. It is
another epitaph on the Mr. Browne that I mentioned in No. II. It contains a
curious illustration of a passage in Shakspeare, which has been often
debated in the pages of "NOTES AND QUERIES," and so deserves preservation.

    "Vpon the death of that right worthye man, MR. BROWNE, late of Caius
    and Gonville Colledge disceased. Epicedion."--(_Harl. MSS._, No. 367.
    fol. 155.)

 "If vowes or teares from heartes or eyes,
  Could pearce the unpenitrable skyes,
  Then might he live, that now heere lyes.

  But teares are tonguelesse, vowes are vaine,
  T' recall what fate calls; els how faine                       5
  What death hath seis'd, wold I regaine.

  But sure th' immortal one belaves
  This wished soule in 's blissfull waves:
  Ill comes too oft, when no man craves.

  Rest, therefore, vrne, rest quietlye,                         10
  And when my fates shall call on me,
  So may I rest, as I wish the.
                     "R. CONSTABLE,
                          Caio-Gonvillensis."

I need hardly point out the striking similarity between the expression in
Shakspeare--

                 "and the delighted spirit
  To bathe in fiery floods,"--

and the third stanza of this poem.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETICAL COINCIDENCES, ETC.

_Byron._

In the _Jealous Lovers_ of Thomas Randolph, the following passage occurs,
which may possibly have suggested to Lord Byron the fearful curse he has
put into the mouth of Eve, in "the grand and tremendous drama of
_Cain_."[1]

                 "May perpetual jealousie
  Wait on their beds, and poison their embraces
  With just suspitions; may their children be
  Deform'd, and fright the mother at the birth:
  May they live long and wretched; all men's hate,
  And yet have misery enough for pity:
  May they be long a-dying--of diseases
  Painful and loathsome," &c.

That exquisite stanza in the Third Canto of _Childe Harold_, "Even as a
broken mirror," &c., has been often admired. In Carew's poem, _The Spark_,
I find the following lines, which contain similar image:

{321}

 "And as a looking-glass, from the aspect,
  Whilst it is whole, doth but one face reflect,
  But being crack'd, or broken, there are shown
  Many half faces, which at first were one;
  So Love," &c.

To the coincidences which have been already pointed out regarding that
exquisite line in the _Bride of Abydos_:

 "The mind, the music breathing from her face,"

the following from Carew may perhaps be added:

 "The harmony of colours, features, grace,
  Resulting airs (the magic of a face)
  Of musical sweet tunes, all which combin'd,
  To crown one sovereign beauty, lie confined
  To this dark vault."--_Epitaph on the Lady S._

All will recollect the wonderful description of the shipwreck in _Don
Juan_; and more particularly the incidents so graphically related in
stanzas 52 and 53 of the Second Canto: to a part of which, the following
passage fro Lee's _Oedipus_ bears some resemblance:

             "Methought I heard a voice,
  Now roaring like the ocean, when the winds
  Fight with the waves; now in a still small tone
  Your dying accents fell, as wrecking ships,
  After the dreadful yell, sink murm'ring down,
  And bubble up a noise."

I have now before me a print of John, the first Lord Byron, engraved from a
painting in the collection of Lord Delaware; in which he is pourtrayed in
armour, with a truncheon in the left hand, and the _right arm bare_ to
above the elbow. Can this have suggested to Lord Byron the idea of
describing "Alp the renegade" as fighting with "the white arm bare," in the
_Siege of Corinth_?

Byron refers to Smollett as an authority for "blatant beast," apparently
forgetting that the figure originated with Spenser. Again, in a note to
_Don Juan_ respecting his use of the phrase "reformadoes," he remarks:

    "The Baron Bradwardine, in _Waverley_, is authority for the word."

It occurs, however, in Ben Jonson, and may be found in Blount's
_Glossographia_; Phillips's _World of Words_, and other old dictionaries of
the same period.

T. C. SMITH.

[Footnote 1: Sir Walter Scott.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO.

Amidst the Apennines, far removed from the ordinary track of tourists, is
the diminutive republic of San Marino, which boasts never to have been
subjugated. Whether it has escaped invasion because it has escaped notice,
or because burglars never attack an empty cottage, is a point which I shall
not stop to discuss. Few travellers visit it, but the trouble of doing so
would be amply repaid. The situation is highly romantic; and the view from
the summit of the bold escarpment, upon which the town is perched, extends
over a wilderness of mountains.

The population of the territory is said not to exceed 6,000 or 7,000 souls.
Its whole income is derived from a moderate duty on tobacco; and its
standing army (for it possesses this indispensable incident to political
independence) is chiefly employed in vain attempts to prevent the evasion
of that duty.

Among the greatest and most highly esteemed curiosities of the place, is a
statue of Christ on the cross, with a head of real hair, which is cut twice
a year, and always grows again! This faculty of reproduction is as
profitable as it is wonderful; for, besides the resort of pious visitors,
drawn by the capillary attractions of such a miraculous piece of sculpture,
the locks that are cut off are stated, by the ecclesiastical functionaries
in charge of the statue, to be a sure preservative against all harm to the
wearer, and are of course in request as an article of commerce. My object
in communicating to you these notes, is to introduce to you a copy, which I
transcribed myself, of one of the state papers preserved in the archives of
the republic. It appears to be a letter of encouragement, addressed by the
Priors and Gonfaloniere of the republic of Florence to that of S. Marino,
during a siege that the latter was undergoing. Perhaps some of your readers
may be able to point out the precise occasion that called for the letter.

SYDNEY SMIRKE.

    "Magnifici viri amici ñri car^{mi}, Habbiamo vedato la lettera vi
    scrive il Governatore, et habbiamo inteso la voluntà dello exercito
    della Chiesa. Dovete essere di buono animo et stare constanti et fermi:
    et perdere la vita insieme con la libertà che è meglo allo huomo uso a
    essere libero, essere morto che essere servo. Iddio a chi piace la
    libertà vi aiutera difenderai: et noi et la ñra lega non vi manchera:
    havete inteso le provisioni facte et di denari et di gente ad Arimino;
    et faremo delle altre tante che saranno abastanza. Valete. Ex palatio
    ñro die viij. Junij, M.CCCCLXVIIIj.

     "Priores libertatis et }
      Vexillifer Justitiæ   }  Populi Florentinj.

    "Barth. Scala.

    "Magnificis Viris hominibus terræ S[=a] Marini amicis ñris car^{mis}."

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. FRANCIS.

I think Mrs. Jameson, in her _Legends of the Monastic Orders_, has left
unnoticed the very remarkable book of the _Conformity of St. Francis's Life
with that of Jesus Christ_, a work, the blasphemy of which is only equalled
by its absurdity.

The book was written by Bartholomew of Pisa, a monk of the order, and
licensed in 1399 by the general of the Minorites.

    "Approbatum est a fr. Henrico ord. frat. Minorum generali ministro et
    servo et cæteris ministris et diffinitoribus capituli generalis apud
    Sacrum locum de Assisio die 2 Augusti A.D. 1399."

{322}

The title of the first edition, which is very rare, is as follows:

    "Liber Conformitatum Vitæ S. Francisci ad Vitam Jesu Christi. Authore
    Fr. Bartholomæo degli Albizzi, ex recens. Fran. Zenonis. Impressum
    Mediolani per Gotardum Ponticum apud templum Sancti Satyri. Anno
    M.CCCCCX. die 18 mensis Septembris. In fol. literis quadratis."

The Second edition:

    "Opus aur. et inexplicabilis bonitatis et continentiæ, Conformitatum
    scilicet vitæ Beati Fr[=a]. ad vit[=a] D[=i]. [=n]ri Jesu x[=p]i.
    Mediolani, in edibus Zanoti castilionei 1513. in fol. goth."

The third edition, also in folio, appeared at Bologne (1590) as "Liber
aureus, inscriptus liber Conformitatum, etc., per Hierem Bucchium," with
some alterations in the text.

Fourth edition:

    "Vita S. Fra[=n]. conf. ad vit. Xti., per S. Bonaventuram Conscriptu ab
    Henr. Sedulio Co[=m]. illustrata, 4to., Antr. 1597."

Another edition, by Jer. Bacch, in folio, appeared at Bologne in 1620; and
an abridged edition in octavo, by Phil. Bosquier, at Cologne, under the
title of _Antiquitates Franciscanæ_, a very good edition of the _Liber
Conform._, "Et ex Annalibus Madingi collecta per Tibur. Navarrum," was
published in 4to. at Rome in 1670.

The late Dr. Elrington had a very fine copy of the following French
translation:--

    "Traite des Conformités du Disciple avec son Maitre, c'est à dire, de
    Saint François avec J. C., etc., le tout recueilli par un frere mineur
    récollect. (Valentin Marée.) Liege, 1658-60. 4 part en 3 vol. in 4to."

In 1542 a small volume was put forth, containing choice passages from the
_Liber Conformitatum_, with a preface and letter to the reader, purporting
to be from Martin Luther. It was accordingly by many attributed to him; the
real compiler was Erasmus Alberus. The title of the first edition is

    "Alcoranus Franciscorum, etc., ex libro conformitatum: Francof. 1542,
    parv. 8vo."

It was reprinted, with a French translation, by Conrad Badius, at Geneva,
1560 or 1578; so says Brunet.

The best edition of this work was that published at Amsterdam in 1734, in
two vols. 12 mo., with some capital plates by Picart. The title is--

    "L'Alcoran des Cordeliers, tant en Latin qu'en François; c'est à dire,
    Recueil des plus notables bourdes et blasphemes de ceux qui ont osé
    comparer Sainet François à Jesus Christ; tiré du grand livre des
    _Conformités_, jadis composé par frere Barthelemi de Pise, Cordelier en
    son vivant. Nouvelle edition, ornée de figures dessinées par B. Picart.
    A Amsterdam. Aux Defens de la Compagnie. MDCCXXXIV."

Another work, printed the same year, is often found with this:--

    "Legende Dorée, ou Sommaire de l'Histoire des Freres-mendians de
    l'ordre de Saint François. (Par Nic. Vignier.) Amsterdam, 1734. 12mo.
    Réimpr. sur l'ed. de Leyde, 1608 in 8vo."

Thomas of Celano, the friend and scholar of St. Francis, and the author of
the famous _Dies Iræ_, after the saint's death composed a brief account of
his life, which he afterwards greatly enlarged, and which even now is the
most authentic we possess. I should be glad to know the best, as well as
the latest editions of this life.

    "Francis," said Luther, "was no doubt an honest and just man. He little
    thought that such superstition and unbelief should proceed out of his
    life."--_Tischreden._

Berington says of St. Francis:

    "In an age of less intemperance in religion, miracles and the fancied
    intervention of peculiar favours from heaven, would not have been
    deemed necessary to stamp worth and admiration on a character which in
    itself possessed the purest excellences that fall to the lot of man.
    But this circumstance, and more than this, the reception which an
    institute so peculiarly framed met with, serve to manifest the singular
    taste of the age."--_Berington's Henry II._, p. 629.

"It is scarcely possible," says Mr. Massingberd, "to read the history of
St. Francis of Assisi, without believing that there was in him a sincere
and self-devoted, however ill-directed, piety." We must not let the foolish
legends afterwards written of him lower him in our estimation, nor cease to
regard him as a sincere and devoted Christian.

MARICONDA.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Charles Lamb's Epitaph._--Perhaps the following lines, which I have copied
from the gravestone of Charles Lamb, who lies in the churchyard at
Edmonton, may be interesting to those of your readers who are among the
admirers of the witty and gentle Elia:--

 "Farewell, dear friend; that smile, that harmless mirth,
  No more shall gladden our domestic hearth;
  That rising tear, with pain forbid to flow,
  Better than words, no more assuage our woe;
  That hand outstretch'd from small but well-earn'd store,
  Yield succour to the destitute no more.

  Yet art thou not all lost; thro' many an age
  With sterling sense and humour shall thy page
  Win many an English bosom, pleased to see
  That old and happier vein revived in thee.
  This for our earth, and if with friends we share
  Our joys in heav'n, we hope to meet thee there."

I have heard it conjectured that the above were written by Wordsworth. I
shall feel obliged if any of your readers will inform me whether the late
laureate was the author of them or not?

MARIA S.

Edmonton.

{323}

