A list of these would be curious. With a passing reference to the familiar
instance of the Crucifixion, as connected with all history, we may note, as
more strictly belonging to the class, those storms that occurred at the
deaths of "The Great Marquis" of Montrose, 21st May, 1650; Cromwell, 3rd
September, 1658; Elizabeth Gaunt, who was burnt 23rd October, 1685, and
holds her reputation as the last female who suffered death for a political
offence in England; and Napoleon, 5th May, 1821; as well as that which
solemnised {494} the burial of Sir Walter Scott, 26th September, 1832.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

_Motto or Wylcotes' Brass._--In the brass of Sir John Wylcotes, Great Tew
Church, Oxfordshire, the following motto occurs:

 "IN . ON . IS . AL."

I shall feel obliged if any one of your numerous correspondents will
enlighten my ignorance by explaining it to me.

W. B. D.

Lynn.

_"Trail through the leaden sky," &c._--

 "Trail through the leaden sky their bannerets of fire."

Where is this line to be found, as applied to the spirits of the storm?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

_Lord Audley's Attendants at Poictiers._--According to the French historian
Froissart, four knights or esquires, whose names he does not supply,
attended the brave Lord Audley at the memorable battle of Poictiers, who,
some English historians say, were Sir John Delves of Doddington, Sir Thomas
Dutton of Dutton, Sir Robert Fowlehurst of Crewe (all these places being in
Cheshire), and Sir John Hawkstone of Wrinehill in Staffordshire; whilst
others name Sir James de Mackworth of Mackworth in Derbyshire, and Sir
Richard de Tunstall _alias_ Sneyde of Tunstall in Staffordshire, as _two of
such knights or esquires_. The accuracy of Froissart as an historian has
never been questioned; and as he expressly names only _four_ attendants on
Lord Audley at the battle of Poictiers, it is extremely desirable it should
be ascertained if possible which of the six above-named knights really were
the companions of Lord Audley Froissart alludes to; and probably some of
your learned correspondents may be able to clear up the doubts on the point
raised by our historians.

T. J.

Worcester.

_Roman Catholic Bible Society._--About the year 1812, or 1813, a Roman
Catholic Bible Society was established in London, in which Mr. Charles
Butler, and many other leading gentlemen, took a warm part. How long did it
continue? Why was it dissolved? Did it publish any annual _reports_, or
issue any book or tract, besides an edition of the New Testament in 1815?
Where can the fullest account of it be found?

Will any gentleman be kind enough to _sell_, or even to _lend_, me Blair's
_Correspondence on the Roman Catholic Bible Society_, a pamphlet published
in 1813, which I have not been able to meet with at a bookseller's shop,
and am very desirous to see.

HENRY COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_"Vox Populi Vox Dei."_--Lieber, in the last chapter of his _Civil
Liberty_, treating of this dictum, ascribes its origin to the Middle Ages,
acknowledging, however, that he is unable to give anything very definite.
Sir William Hamilton, in his edition of the _Works_ of Thomas Reid, gives
the concluding words of Hesiod's _Works and Days_ thus:

    "The word proclaimed by the concordant voice of mankind fails not; for
    in man speaks God."

And to this the great philosopher adds:

 "Hence the adage (?), 'Vox Populi vox Dei.'"

The sign of interrogation is Sir William Hamilton's, and he was right to
put it; for whatever the psychological connexion between Hesiod's dictum
and V. P. V. D. may be, there is surely no historical. "Vox Populi vox Dei"
is a different concept, breathing the spirit of a different age.

How far back, then, can the dictum in these very words be traced?

Does it, as Lieber says, originally belong to the election of bishops by
the people?

Or was it of Crusade origin?

America begs Europe to give her facts, not speculation, and hopes that
Europe will be good enough to comply with her request. Europe has given the
serious "V. P. V. D." to America, so she may as well give its history to
America too.

AMERICUS.

    [As this Query of AMERICUS contains some new illustration of the
    history of this phrase, we have given it insertion, although the
    subject has already been discussed in our columns. The writer will,
    however, find that the earliest known instances of the use of the
    sayings are, by William of Malmesbury, who, speaking of Odo yielding
    his consent to be Archbishop of Canterbury, A.D. 920, says: "Recogitans
    illud Proverbium, _Vox Populi Vox Dei_;" and by Walter Reynolds,
    Archbishop of Canterbury, who, as we learn from Walsingham, took it as
    his text for the sermon which he preached when Edward III. was called
    to the throne, from which the people had pulled down Edward II.
    AMERICUS is farther referred to Mr. G. Cornewall Lewis' _Essay on the
    Influence of Authority in Matters of Opinion_ (pp. 172, 173., and the
    accompanying notes) for some interesting remarks upon it. See farther,
    "N. & Q.," Vol. i., pp. 370. 419. 492.; Vol. iii., pp. 288. 381.]

_"Lanquettes Cronicles."_--Of what date is the earliest printed copy of
these Chronicles? The oldest I am acquainted with is 1560, in quarto
(continued up to 1540 by Bishop Cooper). Is this edition rare?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

    [The earliest edition is that printed by T. Berthelet, 4to., 1549. The
    first two parts of this Chronicle, {495} and the beginning of the
    third, as far as the seventeenth year after Christ, were composed by
    Thomas Lanquet, a young man of twenty-four years of age. Owing to his
    early death, Bishop Cooper finished the work; and his part, which is
    the third, contains almost thrice as much as Lanquet's two parts, being
    taken from Achilles Pyrminius. When it was finished, a surreptitious
    edition appeared in 1559, under the title of Lanquet's _Chronicle_;
    hereupon the bishop protested against "the vnhonest dealynge" of this
    book, edited by Thomas Crowley, in the next edition, entitled Cooper's
    _Chronicle_, "printed in the house late Thomas Berthelettes," 1560. The
    running title to the first and second parts is, "Lanquet's Chronicle;"
    and to the third, "The Epitome of Chronicles." The other editions are,
    "London, 1554," 4to., and "London, 1565," 4to. We should think the
    edition of 1560 rare: it was in the collections of Mr. Heber and Mr.
    Herbert. In this work the following memorable passage occurs, under the
    year 1542:--"One named Johannes Faustius fyrste founde the crafte of
    printynge in the citee of Mens in Germanie."]

_"Our English Milo."_--Bishop Hall extols in his _Heaven upon Earth_ the
valour of a countryman in a Spanish bull-fight (see p. 335., collected ed.
_Works_, 1622). Of whom does he speak?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

    [If we may offer a conjecture, in the passage cited the bishop seems to
    refer to that "greatest scourge of Spain" Sir Walter Raleigh, and not
    so much to a bull-fight as to the Spanish Armada. The bishop is
    prescribing Expectation as a remedy for Crosses, and says, "Is it not
    credible what a fore-resolved mind can do--can suffer? Could our
    English Milo, of whom Spain yet speaketh, since their last peace, have
    overthrown that furious beast, made now more violent through the rage
    of his baiting, if he had not settled himself in his station, and
    expected?" Sir Walter's "fore-resolved and expectant mind" was shown in
    the publication of his treatise, _Notes of Directions for the Defence
    of the Kingdom_, written three years before the Spanish invasion of
    1588.]

_"Delights for Ladies."_--I lately picked up a small volume entitled--

    "Delights for Ladies; to adorn their Persons, Tables, Closets, and
    Distillatories, with Beauties, Bouquets, Perfumes, and Waters. Reade,
    practise, and censure." London, Robert Young. 1640.

Who is the author of this interesting little work? Some one has written on
the fly-leaf, "See Douce's _Illustrations of Shakspeare_, vol. i. p. 69.,
where there is a reference to this curious little book;" but as I cannot
readily lay my hand on Douce, I will feel obliged for the information
sought for from any of your valued correspondents.

GEORGE LLOYD.

Dublin.

    [The author was Sir Hugh Plat, who, says Harte, "not to mention his
    most excellent talents, was the most ingenious husbandman of the age he
    lived in. In a word, no man ever discovered, or at least brought into
    use, so many new sorts of manure." The _Delights for Ladies_ first
    appeared in 1602, and passed through several editions. Douce merely
    quotes this work. Plat was the author of several other works: see Watt
    and Lowndes.]

_Burton's Death._--Did Burton, author of _Anatomy of Melancholy_, commit
suicide?

C. S. W.

    [The supposition that Robert Burton committed suicide originated from a
    statement found in Wood's _Athenæ_, vol. ii. p. 653. (Bliss). Wood
    says, "He, the said R. Burton, paid his last debt to nature in his
    chamber in Christ Church, at or very near that time which he had some
    years before foretold from the calculation of his own nativity; which,
    being exact, several of the students did not forbear to whisper among
    themselves that, rather than there should be a mistake in the
    calculation, he sent up his soul to heaven through a slip about his
    neck."]

_Joannes Audoënus._--I shall be obliged by any notices of the personal or
literary history of John Owen, the famous Latin epigrammatist, in addition
to those furnished by the _Athenæ Oxonienses_. Wood remarks, that "whereas
he had made many epigrams on several people, so few were made on or written
to him. Among the few, one by Stradling, and another by Dunbar, a Scot," I
have met with one allusion to him among the epigrams of T. Bancroft, 4to.,
Lond. 1639, signat. A 3.:

             "_To the Reader._

  Reader, till Martial thou hast well survey'd,
  Or Owen's wit with Jonson's learning weighed,
  Forbeare with thanklesse censure to accuse
  My writ of errour, or condemne my Muse."

As translators of Audoënus, Wood mentions, in 1619, Joh. Vicars, usher of
Christ's Hospital school, as having rendered some select epigrams, and
Thomas Beck six hundred of Owen's, with other epigrams from Martial and
More, under the title of _Parnassi Puerperium_, 8vo., Lond. 1659. In
addition to these I find, in a catalogue of Lilly, King Street, Covent
Garden, No. 4., 1844:

    "HAYMAN, Robert. Certaine Epigrams out of the First Foure Bookes of the
    excellent Epigrammatist Master John Owen, translated into English at
    Harbor Grace in Bristol's Hope, anciently called Newfoundland, 4to.,
    unbound; a rare poetical tract, 1628, 10s. 6d."

BALLIOLENSIS.

    [The personal and literary history of John Owen (_Audoënus_) is given
    in the _Biographia Britannica_, vol. v., and in Chalmers' and Rose's
    Biographical Dictionaries.]

_Hampden's Death._--Was the great patriot Hampden actually slain by the
enemy on Chalgrove Field? or was his death, as some have asserted, {496}
caused by the bursting of his own pistol, owing to its having been
incautiously overcharged?

T. J.

Worcester.

