        And Ulfius and Brastias answer'd, "Ay."
      Then Bedivere, the first of all his knights,
      Knighted by Arthur at his crowning, spake--
      For bold in heart and act and word was he,
      Whenever slander breathed against the King--

        "Sir, there be many rumors on this head:
      For there be those who hate him in their hearts,
      Call him base-born, and since his ways are sweet,
      And theirs are bestial, hold him less than man:
      And there be those who deem him more than man,
      And dream he dropt from heaven: but my belief
      In all this matter--so ye care to learn--
      Sir, for ye know that in King Uther's time
      The prince and warrior Gorloïs, he that held
      Tintagil castle by the Cornish sea,
      Was wedded with a winsome wife, Ygerne:
      And daughters had she borne him--one whereof,
      Lot's wife, the Queen of Orkney, Bellicent,
      Hath ever like a loyal sister cleaved
      To Arthur--but a son she had not borne.
      And Uther cast upon her eyes of love:
      But she, a stainless wife to Gorloïs,
      So loathed the bright dishonor of his love,
      That Gorloïs and King Uther went to war:
      And overthrown was Gorloïs and slain.
      Then Uther in his wrath and heat besieged
      Ygerne within Tintagil, where her men,
      Seeing the mighty swarm about their walls,
      Left her and fled, and Uther enter'd in,
      And there was none to call to but himself.
      So, compass'd by the power of the King,
      Enforced she was to wed him in her tears,
      And with a shameful swiftness: afterward,
      Not many moons, King Uther died himself,
      Moaning and wailing for an heir to rule
      After him, lest the realm should go to wrack.
      And that same night, the night of the new year,
      By reason of the bitterness and grief
      That vext his mother, all before his time
      Was Arthur born, and all as soon as born
      Deliver'd at a secret postern-gate
      To Merlin, to be holden far apart
      Until his hour should come; because the lords
      Of that fierce day were as the lords of this,
      Wild beasts, and surely would have torn the child
      Piecemeal among them, had they known; for each
      But sought to rule for his own self and hand,
      And many hated Uther for the sake
      Of Gorloïs. Wherefore Merlin took the child,
      And gave him to Sir Anton, an old knight
      And ancient friend of Uther; and his wife
      Nursed the young prince, and rear'd him with her own;
      And no man knew. And ever since the lords
      Have foughten like wild beasts among themselves,
      So that the realm has gone to wrack: but now,
      This year, when Merlin (for his hour had come)
      Brought Arthur forth, and set him in the hall,
      Proclaiming, 'Here is Uther's heir, your king,'
      A hundred voices cried, 'Away with him!
      No king of ours! A son of Gorloïs he,
      Or else the child of Anton and no king,
      Or else base-born.' Yet Merlin thro' his craft,
      And while the people clamor'd for a king,
      Had Arthur crown'd; but after, the great lords
      Banded, and so brake out in open war."

        Then while the King debated with himself
      If Arthur were the child of shamefulness,
      Or born the son of Gorloïs, after death,
      Or Uther's son, and born before his time,
      Or whether there were truth in anything
      Said by these three, there came to Cameliard,
      With Gawain and young Modred, her two sons,
      Lot's wife, the Queen of Orkney, Bellicent;
      Whom as he could, not as he would, the King
      Made feast for, saying, as they sat at meat:

        "A doubtful throne is ice on summer seas.
      Ye come from Arthur's court. Victor his men
      Report him! Yea, but ye--think ye this king--
      So many those that hate him, and so strong,
      So few his knights, however brave they be--
      Hath body enow to hold his foemen down?"

        "O King," she cried, "and I will tell thee: few,
      Few, but all brave, all of one mind with him;
      For I was near him when the savage yells
      Of Uther's peerage died and Arthur sat
      Crown'd on the daïs, and his warriors cried,
      'Be thou the king, and we will work thy will,
      Who love thee.' Then the King in low deep tones,
      And simple words of great authority,
      Bound them by so strait vows to his own self,
      That when they rose, knighted from kneeling, some
      Were pale as at the passing of a ghost.
      Some flush'd, and others dazed, as one who wakes
      Half-blinded at the coming of a light.

        "But when he spake and cheer'd his Table Round
      With large, divine and comfortable words,
      Beyond my tongue to tell thee--I beheld
      From eye to eye thro' all their Order flash
      A momentary likeness of the King:
      And ere it left their faces, thro' the cross
      And those around it and the Crucified,
      Down from the casement over Arthur, smote
      Flame-color, vert, and azure, in three rays,
      One falling upon each of three fair queens,
      Who stood in silence near his throne, the friends
      Of Arthur, gazing on him, tall, with bright
      Sweet faces, who will help him at his need.

        "And there I saw mage Merlin, whose vast wit
      And hundred winters are but as the hands
      Of loyal vassals toiling for their liege.

        "And near him stood the Lady of the Lake,
      Who knows a subtler magic than his own--
      Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful.
      She gave the King his huge cross-hilted sword,
      Whereby to drive the heathen out: a mist
      Of incense curl'd about her, and her face
      Well-nigh was hidden in the minster gloom;
      But there was heard among the holy hymns
      A voice as of the waters, for she dwells
      Down in a deep, calm, whatsoever storms
      May shake the world, and when the surface rolls,
      Hath power to walk the waters like our Lord.

        "There likewise I beheld Excalibur
      Before him at his crowning borne, the sword
      That rose from out the bosom of the lake,
      And Arthur row'd across and took it--rich
      With jewels, elfin Urim, on the hilt,
      Bewildering heart and eye--the blade so bright
      That men are blinded by it--on one side,
      Graven in the oldest tongue of all this world,
      'Take me,' but turn the blade and ye shall see,
      And written in the speech ye speak yourself,
      'Cast me away!' And sad was Arthur's face
      Taking it, but old Merlin counsel'd him,
      'Take thou and strike! the time to cast away
      Is yet far-off.' So this great brand the king
      Took, and by this will beat his foemen down."

        Thereat Leodogran rejoiced, but thought
      To sift his doubtings to the last, and ask'd,
      Fixing full eyes of question on her face,
      "The swallow and the swift are near akin,
      But thou art closer to this noble prince,
      Being his own dear sister"; and she said,
      "Daughter of Gorloïs and Ygerne am I";
      "And therefore Arthur's sister?" asked the King.
      She answer'd, "These be secret things," and sign'd
      To those two sons to pass and let them be.
      And Gawain went, and breaking into song
      Sprang out, and follow'd by his flying hair
      Ran like a colt, and leapt at all he saw:
      But Modred laid his ear beside the doors,
      And there half heard; the same that afterward
      Struck for the throne, and striking found his doom.

        And then the Queen made answer, "What know I?
      For dark my mother was in eyes and hair,
      And dark in hair and eyes am I; and dark
      Was Gorloïs, yea and dark was Uther too,
      Well-nigh to blackness; but this King is fair
      Beyond the race of Britons and of men.
      Moreover, always in my mind I hear
      A cry from out the dawning of my life,
      A mother weeping, and I hear her say,
      'O that ye had some brother, pretty one,
      To guard thee on the rough ways of the world.'"

        "Ay," said the King, "and hear ye such a cry?
      But when did Arthur chance upon thee first?"

        "O King!" she cried, "and I will tell thee true:
      He found me first when yet a little maid:
      Beaten I had been for a little fault
      Whereof I was not guilty; and out I ran
      And flung myself down on a bank of heath,
      And hated this fair world and all therein,
      And wept and wish'd that I were dead; and he--
      I know not whether of himself he came,
      Or brought by Merlin, who, they say, can walk
      Unseen at pleasure--he was at my side,
      And spake sweet words, and comforted my heart,
      And dried my tears, being a child with me.
      And many a time he came, and evermore
      As I grew greater grew with me; and sad
      At times he seem'd, and sad with him was I,
      Stern too at times, and then I loved him not,
      But sweet again, and then I loved him well.
      And now of late I see him less and less,
      But those first days had golden hours for me,
      For then I surely thought he would be king.

       "But let me tell thee now another tale:
      For Bleys, our Merlin's master, as they say,
      Died but of late, and sent his cry to me,
      To hear him speak before he left his life.
      Shrunk like a fairy changeling lay the mage;
      And when I enter'd told me that himself
      And Merlin ever served about the King,
      Uther, before he died; and on the night
      When Uther in Tintagil past away
      Moaning and wailing for an heir, the two
      Left the still King, and passing forth to breathe,
      Then from the castle gateway by the chasm
      Descending thro' the dismal night--a night
      In which the bounds of heaven and earth were lost--
      Beheld, so high upon the dreary deeps
      It seem'd in heaven, a ship, the shape thereof
      A dragon wing'd, and all from stem to stern
      Bright with a shining people on the decks,
      And gone as soon as seen. And then the two
      Dropt to the cove, and watch'd the great sea fall,
      Wave after wave, each mightier than the last,
      Till last, a ninth one, gathering half the deep
      And full of voices, slowly rose and plunged
      Roaring, and all the wave was in a flame:
      And down the wave and in the flame was borne
      A naked babe, and rode to Merlin's feet,
      Who stoopt and caught the babe, and cried 'The King!
      Here is an heir for Uther!' And the fringe
      Of that great breaker, sweeping up the strand,
      Lash'd at the wizard as he spake the word,
      And all at once all round him rose in fire,
      So that the child and he were clothed in fire.
      And presently thereafter followed calm,
      Free sky and stars: 'And this same child,' he said,
      'Is he who reigns: nor could I part in peace
      Till this were told.' And saying this the seer
      Went thro' the strait and dreadful pass of death,
      Not ever to be questioned any more
      Save on the further side; but when I met
      Merlin, and ask'd him if these things were truth--
      The shining dragon and the naked child
      Descending in the glory of the seas--
      He laugh'd as is his wont, and answer'd me
      In riddling triplets of old time, and said:

        "'Rain, rain, and sun! a rainbow in the sky!
      A young man will be wiser by and by;
      An old man's wit may wander ere he die.

        "'Rain, rain, and sun! a rainbow on the lea!
      And truth is this to me, and that to thee;
      And truth or clothed or naked let it be.

        "'Rain, sun, and rain! and the free blossom blows:
      Sun, rain, and sun! and where is he who knows?
      From the great deep to the great deep he goes.'

        "So Merlin riddling anger'd me; but thou
      Fear not to give this King thine only child,
      Guinevere: so great bards of him will sing
      Hereafter; and dark sayings from of old
      Ranging and ringing thro' the minds of men,
      And echo'd by old folk beside their fires
      For comfort after their wage-work is done,
      Speak of the King; and Merlin in our time
      Hath spoken also, not in jest, and sworn
      Tho' men may wound him that he will not die,
      But pass, again to come; and then or now
      Utterly smite the heathen under foot,
      Till these and all men hail him for their king."

        She spake and King Leodogran rejoiced,
      But musing "Shall I answer yea or nay?"
      Doubted and drowsed, nodded and slept, and saw,
      Dreaming, a slope of land that ever grew,
      Field after field, up to a height, the peak
      Haze-hidden, and thereon a phantom king,
      Now looming, and now lost: and on the slope
      The sword rose, the hind fell, the herd was driven,
      Fire glimpsed; and all the land from roof and rick,
      In drifts of smoke before a rolling wind,
      Stream'd to the peak, and mingled with the haze
      And made it thicker; while the phantom king
      Sent out at times a voice; and here or there
      Stood one who pointed toward the voice, the rest
      Slew on and burnt, crying, "No king of ours,
      No son of Uther, and no king of ours";
      Till with a wink his dream was changed, the haze
      Descended, and the solid earth became
      As nothing, but the king stood out in heaven
      Crown'd. And Leodogran awoke, and sent
      Ulfius, and Brastias, and Bedivere,
      Back to the court of Arthur answering yea.

        Then Arthur charged his warrior whom he loved
      And honored most, Sir Lancelot, to ride forth
      And bring the Queen;--and watch'd him from the gates;
      And Lancelot past away among the flowers,
      (For then was latter April) and return'd
      Among the flowers, in May, with Guinevere.
      To whom arrived, by Dubric the high saint,
      Chief of the church in Britain, and before
      The stateliest of her altar-shrines, the King
      That morn was married, while in stainless white,
      The fair beginners of a nobler time,
      And glorying in their vows and him, his knights
      Stood round him, and rejoicing in his joy.
      Far shone the fields of May thro' open door,
      The sacred altar blossom'd white with May,
      The Sun of May descended on their King,
      They gazed on all earth's beauty in their Queen,
      Roll'd incense, and there past along the hymns
      A voice as of the waters, while the two
      Sware at the shrine of Christ a deathless love:
      And Arthur said, "Behold, thy doom is mine.
      Let chance what will, I love thee to the death!"
      To whom the Queen replied with drooping eyes,
      "King and my lord, I love thee to the death!"
      And holy Dubric spread his hands and spake,
      "Reign ye, and live and love, and make the world
      Other, and may thy Queen be one with thee,
      And all this Order of thy Table Round
      Fulfil the boundless purpose of their King!"

        So Dubric said; but when they left the shrine
      Great Lords from Rome before the portal stood,
      In scornful stillness gazing as they past;
      Then while they paced a city all on fire
      With sun and cloth of gold, the trumpets blew,
      And Arthur's knighthood sang before the King:--

        "Blow trumpet, for the world is white with May;
      Blow trumpet, the long night hath roll'd away!
      Blow thro' the living world--'Let the King reign.'

        "Shall Rome or heathen rule in Arthur's realm?
      Flash brand and lance, fall battle-axe upon helm,
      Fall battle-axe, and flash brand! Let the King reign.

        "Strike for the King and live! his knights have heard
      That God hath told the King a secret word.
      Fall battle-axe, and flash brand! Let the King reign.

        "Blow trumpet! he will lift us from the dust.
      Blow trumpet! live the strength and die the lust!
      Clang battle-axe, and clash brand! Let the King reign.

        "Strike for the King and die! and if thou diest,
      The King is King, and ever wills the highest.
      Clang battle-axe, and clash brand! Let the King reign.

        "Blow, for our Sun is mighty in his May!
      Blow, for our Sun is mightier day by day!
      Clang battle-axe, and clash brand! Let the King reign.

        "The King will follow Christ, and we the King,
      In whom high God hath breathed a secret thing.
      Fall battle-axe, and clash brand! Let the King reign."

        So sang the knighthood, moving to their hall.
      There at the banquet those great Lords from Rome,
      The slowly-fading mistress of the world,
      Strode in, and claim'd their tribute as of yore.
      But Arthur spake, "Behold, for these have sworn
      To wage my wars, and worship me their King;
      The old order changeth, yielding place to new;
      And we that fight for our fair father Christ,
      Seeing that ye be grown too weak and old
      To drive the heathen from your Roman wall,
      No tribute will we pay": so those great lords
      Drew back in wrath, and Arthur strove with Rome.

        And Arthur and his knighthood for a space
      Were all one will, and thro' that strength the King
      Drew in the petty princedoms under him,
      Fought, and in twelve great battles overcame
      The heathen hordes, and made a realm and reign'd.


THE PASSING OF ARTHUR

      That story which the bold Sir Bedivere,
      First made and latest left of all the knights,
      Told, when the man was no more than a voice
      In the white winter of his age, to those
      With whom he dwelt, new faces, other minds.

        For on their march to westward, Bedivere,
      Who slowly paced among the slumbering host,
      Heard in his tent the moanings of the King:

        "I found Him in the shining of the stars,
      I mark'd Him in the flowering of His fields,
      But in His ways with men I find Him not.
      I waged His wars, and now I pass and die.
      O me! for why is all around us here
      As if some lesser god had made the world,
      But had not force to shape it as he would,
      Till the High God behold it from beyond,
      And enter it, and make it beautiful?
      Or else as if the world were wholly fair,
      But that these eyes of men are dense and dim,
      And have not power to see it as it is:
      Perchance, because we see not to the close;--
      For I, being simple, thought to work His will,
      And have but stricken with the sword in vain;
      And all whereon I lean'd in wife and friend
      Is traitor to my peace, and all my realm
      Reels back into the beast, and is no more.
      My God, thou hast forgotten me in my death:
      Nay--God my Christ--I pass but shall not die."

        Then, ere that last weird battle in the west,
      There came on Arthur sleeping, Gawain kill'd
      In Lancelot's war, the ghost of Gawain blown
      Along a wandering wind, and past his ear
      Went shrilling, "Hollow, hollow all delight!
      Hail King! tomorrow thou shalt pass away.
      Farewell! there is an isle of rest for thee.
      And I am blown along a wandering wind,
      And hollow, hollow, hollow all delight."
      And fainter onward, like wild birds that change
      Their season in the night and wail their way
      From cloud to cloud, down the long wind the dream
      Shrill'd; but in going mingled with dim cries
      Far in the moonlit haze among the hills,
      As of some lonely city sack'd by night,
      When all is lost, and wife and child with wail
      Pass to new lords! and Arthur woke and call'd,
      "Who spake? A dream. O light upon the wind,
      Thine, Gawain, was the voice--are these dim cries
      Thine? or doth all that haunts the waste and wild
      Mourn, knowing it will go along with me?"

        This heard the bold Sir Bedivere and spake:
      "O me, my King, let pass whatever will,
      Elves, and the harmless glamour of the field;
      But in their stead thy name and glory cling
      To all high places like a golden cloud
      For ever: but as yet thou shalt not pass.
      Light was Gawain in life, and light in death
      Is Gawain, for the ghost is as the man;
      And care not thou for dreams from him, but rise--
      I hear the steps of Modred in the west,
      And with him many of thy people, and knights
      Once thine, whom thou hast loved, but grosser grown
      Than heathen, spitting at their vows and thee.
      Right well in heart they know thee for the King.
      Arise, go forth and conquer as of old."

        Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere:
      "Far other is this battle in the west
      Whereto we move, than when we strove in youth,
      And brake the petty kings, and fought with Rome,
      Or thrust the heathen from the Roman wall,
      And shook him thro' the north. Ill doom is mine
      To war against my people and my knights.
      The king who fights his people fights himself.
      And they my knights, who loved me once, the stroke
      That strikes them dead is as my death to me.
      Yet let us hence, and find or feel a way
      Thro' this blind haze, which ever since I saw
      One lying in the dust at Almesbury,
      Hath folded in the passes of the world."

        Then rose the King and moved his host by night,
      And ever push'd Sir Modred, league by league,
      Back to the sunset bound of Lyonnesse--
      A land of old upheaven from the abyss
      By fire, to sink into the abyss again;
      Where fragments of forgotten peoples dwelt,
      And the long mountains ended in a coast
      Of ever-shifting sand, and far away
      The phantom circle of a moaning sea.
      There the pursuer could pursue no more,
      And he that fled no further fly the King;
      And there, that day when the great light of heaven
      Burn'd at his lowest in the rolling year,
      On the waste sand by the waste sea they closed.
      Nor ever yet had Arthur fought a fight
      Like this last dim, weird battle of the west.
      A death-white mist slept over sand and sea:
      Whereof the chill, to him who breathed it, drew
      Down with his blood, till all his heart was cold
      With formless fear; and ev'n on Arthur fell
      Confusion, since he saw not whom he fought,
      For friend and foe were shadows in the mist,
      And friend slew friend not knowing whom he slew;
      And some had visions out of golden youth,
      And some beheld the faces of old ghosts
      Look in upon the battle; and in the mist
      Was many a noble deed, many a base,
      And chance and craft and strength in single fights,
      And ever and anon with host to host
      Shocks, and the splintering spear, the hard mail hewn,
      Shield-breakings, and the clash of brands, the crash
      Of battle-axes on shatter'd helms, and shrieks
      After the Christ, of those who falling down
      Look'd up for heaven, and only saw the mist:
      And shouts of heathen and the traitor knights,
      Oaths, insult, filth, and monstrous blasphemies,
      Sweat, writhing, anguish, laboring of the lungs
      In that close mist, and cryings for the light,
      Moans of the dying, and voices of the dead.

        Last, as by some one death-bed after wail
      Of suffering, silence follows, or thro' death
      Or deathlike swoon, thus over all that shore,
      Save for some whisper of the seething seas,
      A dead hush fell; but when the dolorous day
      Grew drearier toward twilight falling, came
      A bitter wind, clear from the North, and blew
      The mist aside, and with that wind the tide
      Rose, and the pale King glanced across the field
      Of battle: but no man was moving there;
      Nor any cry of Christian heard thereon,
      Nor yet of heathen; only the wan wave
      Brake in among dead faces, to and fro
      Swaying the helpless hands, and up and down
      Tumbling the hollow helmets of the fallen,
      And shiver'd brands that once had fought with Rome,
      And rolling far along the gloomy shores
      The voice of days of old and days to be.

        Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere,
      And whiter than the mist that all day long
      Had held the field of battle was the King:
        "Hearest thou this great voice that shakes the world
      And wastes the narrow realm whereon we move,
      And beats upon the faces of the dead,
      My dead, as tho' they had not died for me?--
      O Bedivere, for on my heart hath fall'n
      Confusion, till I know not what I am,
      Nor whence I am, nor whether I be King.
      Behold, I seem but King among the dead."

        Then spake the bold Sir Bedivere: "My King,
      King everywhere! and so the dead have kings,
      There also will I worship thee as King.
      Yet still thy life is whole, and still I live
      Who love thee; but who hates thee, he that brought
      The heathen back among us, yonder stands,
      Modred, unharm'd, the traitor of thine house."

        Then spake the King: "My house had been my doom,
      But call not thou this traitor of my house
      Who hath but dwelt beneath one roof with me.
      My house are rather they who sware my vows,
      Yea, even while they brake them, own'd me King.
      And well for thee, saying in my dark hour,
      When all the purport of my throne hath fail'd,
      That quick or dead thou holdest me for King.
      King am I, whatsoever be their cry;
      And one last act of kinghood shalt thou see
      Yet, ere I pass." And uttering this the King
      Made at the man: then Modred smote his liege
      Hard on that helm which many a heathen sword
      Had beaten thin; while Arthur at one blow,
      Striking the last stroke with Excalibur,
      Slew him, and but slain himself, he fell.

        So all day long the noise of battle roll'd
      Among the mountains by the winter sea;
      Until King Arthur's Table, man by man,
      Had fall'n in Lyonnesse about their lord,
      King Arthur. Then, because his wound was deep,
      The bold Sir Bedivere uplifted him,
      And bore him to a chapel nigh the field,
      A broken chancel with a broken cross,
      That stood on a dark strait of barren land:
      On one side lay the Ocean, and on one
      Lay a great water, and the moon was full.

        Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere:
      "The sequel of today unsolders all
      The goodliest fellowship of famous knights
      Whereof this world holds record. Such a sleep
      They sleep--the men I loved. I think that we
      Shall never more, at any future time,
      Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds,
      Walking about the gardens and the halls
      Of Camelot, as in the days that were.
      I perish by this people which I made,--
      Tho' Merlin sware that I should come again
      To rule once more; but, let what will be, be,
      I am so deeply smitten thro' the helm
      That without help I cannot last till morn.
      Thou therefore take my brand Excalibur,
      Which was my pride: for thou rememberest how
      In those old days, one summer noon, an arm
      Rose up from out the bosom of the lake,
      Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,
      Holding the sword--and how I row'd across
      And took it, and have worn it, like a king;
      And, wheresoever I am sung or told
      In after-time, this also shall be known:
      But now delay not: take Excalibur,
      And fling him far into the middle mere:
      Watch what thou seest, and lightly bring me word."

        To him replied the bold Sir Bedivere:
      "It is not meet, Sir King, to leave thee thus,
      Aidless, alone, and smitten thro' the helm--
      A little thing may harm a wounded man:
      Yet I thy hest will all perform at full,
      Watch what I see, and lightly bring thee word."

        So saying, from the ruin'd shrine he stept,
      And in the moon athwart the place of tombs,
      Where lay the mighty bones of ancient men,
      Old knights, and over them the sea-wind sang
      Shrill, chill, with flakes of foam. He, stepping down
      By zigzag paths, and juts of pointed rock,
      Came on the shining levels of the lake.

        There drew he forth the brand Excalibur,
      And o'er him, drawing it, the winter moon,
      Brightening the skirts of a long cloud, ran forth
      And sparkled keen with frost against the hilt:
      For all the haft twinkled with diamond sparks,
      Myriads of topaz-lights, and jacinth-work
      Of subtlest jewellery. He gazed so long
      That both his eyes were dazzled as he stood,
      This way and that dividing the swift mind,
      In act to throw: but at the last it seem'd
      Better to leave Excalibur conceal'd
      There in the many-knotted water-flags,
      That whistled stiff and dry about the marge.
      So strode he back slow to the wounded King.

        Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere:
      "Hast thou perform'd my mission which I gave?"
      What is it thou hast seen? or what hast heard?

        And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere:
      "I heard the ripple washing in the reeds,
      And the wild water lapping on the crag."

        To whom replied King Arthur, faint and pale:
      "Thou hast betray'd thy nature and thy name,
      Not rendering true answer, as beseem'd
      Thy fealty, nor like a noble knight:
      For surer sign had follow'd, either hand,
      Or voice, or else a motion of the mere.
      This is a shameful thing for men to lie.
      Yet now, I charge thee, quickly go again,
      As thou art lief and dear, and do the thing
      I bade thee, watch, and lightly bring me word."

        Then went Sir Bedivere the second time
      Across the ridge, and paced beside the mere,
      Counting the dewy pebbles, fix'd in thought;
      But when he saw the wonder of the hilt,
      How curiously and strangely chased, he smote
      His palms together, and he cried aloud:

        "And if indeed I cast the brand away,
      Surely a precious thing, one worthy note,
      Should thus be lost for ever from the earth,
      Which might have pleased the eyes of many men.
      What good should follow this, if this were done?
      What harm, undone? Deep harm to disobey,
      Seeing obedience is the bond of rule.
      Were it well to obey then, if a king demand
      An act unprofitable, against himself?
      The King is sick, and knows not what he does.
      What record, or what relic of my lord
      Should be to after-time, but empty breath
      And rumors of a doubt? But were this kept,
      Stored in some treasure-house of mighty kings,
      Some one might show it at a joust of arms,
      Saying, 'King Arthur's sword, Excalibur,
      Wrought by the lonely maiden of the Lake.
      Nine years she wrought it, sitting in the deeps
      Upon the hidden bases of the hills.'
      So might some old man speak in the after-time
      To all the people, winning reverence.
      But now much honor and much fame were lost."

        So spake he, clouded with his own conceit,
      And hid Excalibur the second time,
      And so strode back slow to the wounded King.

        Then spoke King Arthur, breathing heavily:
      "What is it thou hast seen? or what hast heard?"

        And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere:
      "I heard the water lapping on the crag,
      And the long ripple washing in the reeds."

        To whom replied King Arthur, much in wrath:
      "Ah, miserable and unkind, untrue,
      Unknightly, traitor-hearted! Woe is me!
      Authority forgets a dying king,
      Laid widow'd of the power in his eye
      That bow'd the will. I see thee what thou art,
      For thou, the latest-left of all my knights,
      In whom should meet the offices of all,
      Thou wouldst betray me for the precious hilt;
      Either from lust of gold, or like a girl
      Valuing the giddy pleasure of the eyes.
      Yet, for a man may fail in duty twice,
      And the third time may prosper, get thee hence:
      But, if thou spare to fling Excalibur,
      I will arise and slay thee with my hands."

        Then quickly rose Sir Bedivere, and ran,
      And, leaping down the ridges lightly, plunged
      Among the bulrush beds, and clutch'd the sword,
      And strongly wheel'd and threw it. The great brand
      Made lightnings in the splendor of the moon,
      And flashing round and round, and whirl'd in an arch,
      Shot like a streamer of the northern morn,
      Seen where the moving isles of winter shook
      By night, with noises of the Northern Sea.
      So flash'd and fell the brand Excalibur:
      But ere he dipt the surface, rose an arm
      Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,
      And caught him by the hilt, and brandish'd him
      Three times, and drew him under in the mere.
      And lightly went the other to the King.

        Then spoke King Arthur, drawing thicker breath:
      "Now see I by thine eyes that this is done.
      Speak out: what is it thou hast heard, or seen?"

        And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere:
      "Sir King, I closed mine eyelids, lest the gems
      Should blind my purpose, for I never saw,
      Nor shall see, here or elsewhere, till I die,
      Not tho' I live three lives of mortal men,
      So great a miracle as yonder hilt.
      Then with both hands I flung him, wheeling him;
      But when I look'd again, behold an arm,
      Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,
      That caught him by the hilt and brandish'd him
      Three times, and drew him under in the mere."

        And answer made King Arthur, breathing hard:
      "My end draws nigh; 't is time that I were gone.
      Make broad thy shoulders to receive my weight,
      And bear me to the margin; yet I fear
      My wound hath taken cold, and I shall die."

        So saying, from the pavement he half rose,
      Slowly, with pain, reclining on his arm,
      And looking wistfully with wide blue eyes
      As in a picture. Him Sir Bedivere
      Remorsefully regarded thro' his tears,
      And would have spoken, but he found not words;
      Then took with care, and kneeling on one knee,
      O'er both his shoulders drew the languid hands,
      And rising bore him thro' the place of tombs.

        But, as he walk'd, King Arthur panted hard,
      Like one that feels a nightmare on his bed
      When all the house is mute. So sigh'd the King,
      Muttering and murmuring at his ear, "Quick, quick!
      I fear it is too late, and I shall die."
      But the other swiftly strode from ridge to ridge,
      Clothed with his breath, and looking, as he walk'd,
      Larger than human on the frozen hills.
      He heard the deep behind him, and a cry
      Before. His own thought drove him like a goad.
      Dry clash'd his harness in the icy caves
      And barren chasms, and all to left and right
      The bare black cliff clang'd round him, as he based
      His feet on juts of slippery crag that rang
      Sharp-smitten with the dint of armed heels
      And on a sudden, lo! the level lake,
      And the long glories of the winter moon.

        Then saw they how there hove a dusky barge,
      Dark as a funeral scarf from stem to stern,
      Beneath them; and descending they were ware
      That all the decks were dense with stately forms,
      Black-stoled, black-hooded, like a dream--by these
      Three Queens with crowns of gold: and from them rose
      A cry that shiver'd to the tingling stars,
      And, as it were one voice, an agony
      Of lamentation, like a wind that shrills
      All night in a waste land, where no one comes,
      Or hath come, since the making of the world.

        Then murmur'd Arthur, "Place me in the barge."
      So to the barge they came. There those three Queens
      Put forth their hands, and took the King, and wept.
      But she, that rose the tallest of them all
      And fairest, laid his head upon her lap,
      And loosed the shatter'd casque, and chafed his hands,
      And call'd him by his name, complaining loud,
      And dropping bitter tears against a brow
      Striped with dark blood: for all his face was white
      And colorless, and like the wither'd moon
      Smote by the fresh beam of the springing east;
      And all his greaves and cuisses dash'd with drops
      Of onset; and the light and lustrous curls--
      That made his forehead like a rising sun
      High from the daïs-throne--were parch'd with dust;
      Or, clotted into points and hanging loose,
      Mix'd with the knightly growth that fringed his lips.
      So like a shatter'd column lay the King;
      Not like that Arthur who, with lance in rest,
      From spur to plume a star of tournament,
      Shot thro' the lists at Camelot, and charged
      Before the eyes of ladies and of kings.

        Then loudly cried the bold Sir Bedivere:
      "Ah! my Lord Arthur, whither shall I go?
      Where shall I hide my forehead and my eyes?
      For now I see the true old times are dead,
      When every morning brought a noble chance,
      And every chance brought out a noble knight.
      Such times have been not since the light that led
      The holy Elders with the gift of myrrh.
      But now the whole Round Table is dissolved
      Which was an image of the mighty world
      And I, the last, go forth companionless,
      And the days darken round me, and the years,
      Among new men, strange faces, other minds."

        And slowly answer'd Arthur from the barge:
      "The old order changeth, yielding place to new,
      And God fulfils himself in many ways,
      Lest one good custom should corrupt the world.
      Comfort thyself: what comfort is in me?
      I have lived my life, and that which I have done
      May He within himself make pure! but thou,
      If thou shouldst never see my face again,
      Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer
      Than this world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice
      Rise like a fountain for me night and day.
      For what are men better than sheep or goats
      That nourish a blind life within the brain,
      If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer
      Both for themselves and those who call them friend?
      For so the whole round earth is every way
      Bound by gold chains about the feet of God.
      But now farewell. I am going a long way
      With these thou seest--if indeed I go
      (For all my mind is clouded with a doubt)--
      To the island-valley of Avilion;
      Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
      Nor ever wind blows loudly; but it lies
      Deep-meadow'd, happy, fair with orchard lawns
      And bowery hollows crown'd with summer sea,
      Where I will heal me of my grievous wound."

        So said he, and the barge with oar and sail
      Moved from the brink, like some full-breasted swan
      That, fluting a wild carol ere her death,
      Ruffles her pure cold plume, and takes the flood
      With swarthy webs. Long stood Sir Bedivere
      Revolving many memories, till the hull
      Look'd one black dot against the verge of dawn,
      And on the mere the wailing died away.

        But when that moan had past for evermore,
      The stillness of the dead world's winter dawn
      Amazed him, and he groan'd, "The King is gone."
      And therewithal came on him the weird rhyme,
      "From the great deep to the great deep he goes."

        Whereat he slowly turn'd and slowly clomb
      The last hard footstep of that iron crag;
      Thence mark'd the black hull moving yet, and cried,
      "He passes to be King among the dead,
      And after healing of his grievous wound
      He comes again; but--if he come no more--
      O me, be yon dark Queens in yon black boat,
      Who shriek'd and wail'd, the three whereat we gazed
      On that high day, when, clothed with living light,
      They stood before his throne in silence, friends
      Of Arthur, who should help him at his need?"

        Then from the dawn it seem'd there came, but faint,
      As from beyond the limit of the world,
      Like the last echo born of a great cry,
      Sounds, as if some fair city were one voice
      Around a king returning from his wars.

        Thereat once more he moved about, and clomb
      Ev'n to the highest he could climb, and saw,
      Straining his eyes beneath an arch of hand,
      Or thought he saw, the speck that bare the King,
      Down that long water opening on the deep
      Somewhere far off, pass on and on, and go
      From less to less and vanish into light.
      And the new sun rose bringing the new year.


THE GREAT KNIGHT SIEGFRIED


Once upon a time there lived in the Netherlands, in Xante, a wonderful
castle on the river Rhine, a mighty king and queen. Siegmund and
Sieglinde were their names, and far and wide were they known. Yet
their son, the glorious hero Siegfried, was still more widely
celebrated. Even as a boy he performed so many daring feats that his
bravery was talked of in all German lands.

The two most remarkable of these feats were the slaying of a frightful
monster known as the "Dragon of the Linden-tree" and the capture of
the rich treasure of the Nibelungs. The hoard was an ancient one and
had this wonderful property--that no matter how much was taken from it
the quantity was never less.

All this happened before Siegfried reached the age of manhood. When it
was time for the youth to be knighted, King Siegmund sent invitations
far and wide throughout the country, and a great celebration took
place. Siegfried was solemnly girded with a sword and permitted to
take his place among the warriors of the kingdom. Then there was a
great tournament, a wonderful occasion for Siegfried, who came off
victor in every encounter, although many tried warriors matched their
skill against his. Altogether the festivities lasted seven whole days.

After the guests had departed, Siegfried asked permission of his
parents to travel into Burgundy to seek as bride for himself
Kriemhild, the maiden of whose great beauty and loveliness he had
heard.

[Illustration: SIEGFRIED CAME OFF VICTOR IN EVERY ENCOUNTER]

Gunther, the king of Burgundy, recognizing the young hero, went out
to meet him and politely inquired the cause of his visit. Imagine his
dismay when Siegfried proposed a single combat, in which the victor
might claim the land and allegiance of the vanquished. Neither Gunther
nor any of his knights would accept the challenge; but Gunther and his
brother hastened forward with proffers of unbounded hospitality.

Siegfried lingered a year in Gunther's palace, and though he never
caught a glimpse of the fair maid Kriemhild, she often admired his
strength and manly beauty from behind the palace windows.

One day a herald arrived from King Ludeger of Saxony and King Ludegast
of Denmark, announcing an invasion. Gunther was dismayed; but the
brave Siegfried came to the rescue, saying that if Gunther would give
him only one thousand brave men he would repel the enemy. This was
done and the little army marched into Saxony and routed the twenty
thousand valiant soldiers of the enemy's force. All the men did brave
work, but Siegfried was the bravest of them all.

When the hero returned, a great celebration was held in his honor, and
Kriemhild, Ute and all the ladies of the court were invited to be
present at the tournament. It was there that Siegfried first saw the
fair maiden. Her beauty was more wonderful than he had ever been able
to imagine. What was his delight, then, to learn that he had been
appointed her escort.

On the way to the tournament Kriemhild murmured her thanks for the
good work Siegfried had done for her, and Siegfried vowed that he
would always serve her brothers because of his great love for her.

Soon after the tournament Gunther announced his intention of winning
for his wife, Brunhild, the princess of Issland, who had vowed to
marry no man but the one who could surpass her in jumping, throwing a
stone and casting a spear. Gunther proposed that Siegfried go with
him, promising him, in return for his services, the hand of Kriemhild.
Such an offer was not to be despised, and Siegfried immediately
consented, advising Gunther to take only Hagen and Dankwart with him.

Gunther and the three knights set out in a small vessel. Siegfried
bade his companions represent him as Gunther's vassal only; but
Brunhild, seeing his giant figure and guessing its strength, imagined
that he had come to woo her. She was dismayed, therefore, when she
heard that he had held the stirrup for Gunther to dismount. When he
entered her hall, she advanced to meet him; but he drew aside, saying
that honor was due to his master Gunther.

Brunhild ordered preparations for the evening contest, and Gunther,
Hagen and Dankwart trembled when they saw four men staggering under
the weight of Brunhild's shield and three more staggering under the
weight of her spear. Siegfried, meantime, had donned his magic cloud
cloak and bade Gunther rely upon his aid.

The combat opened. Brunhild poised her spear and flung it with such
force that both heroes staggered; but before she could cry out her
victory Siegfried had caught the spear and flung it back with such
violence that the princess fell and was obliged to acknowledge defeat.

Undaunted, she caught up a huge stone, flung it far into the distance,
and then leaping, alighted beside it. No sooner had she done this than
Siegfried seized the stone, flung it still farther, and lifting
Gunther by his broad girdle bounded through the air with him and
alighted beyond the stone. Then Brunhild knew that she had found her
master.

"Come hither all my kinsmen and followers," she said, "and acknowledge
my superior. I am no longer your mistress. Gunther is your lord."

The wedding was fitly celebrated and then Gunther and his bride were
escorted back to Issland by a thousand Nibelung warriors whom
Siegfried had gathered for the purpose. A great banquet was given upon
their return, at which the impatient Siegfried ventured to remind
Gunther of his promise. Brunhild protested that Gunther should not
give his only sister to a menial, but Gunther gave his consent and the
marriage took place immediately. The two bridal couples then sat side
by side. Kriemhild's face was very happy; Brunhild's was dark and
frowning.

You see, Brunhild was not pleased with the husband she had gained and
preferred Siegfried. Alone with her husband the first night she bound
him with her girdle and suspended him from a corner of her apartment.
There she let him hang till morning. Released, Gunther sought out
Siegfried and told him of the disgraceful affair.

The following evening Siegfried again donned his cloud cloak and
entered the apartments of Gunther and Brunhild. As he entered he blew
out the lights, caught Brunhild's hands and wrestled with her until
she pleaded for mercy.

"Great king, forbear," she said. "I will henceforth be thy dutiful
wife. I will do nothing to anger thee. Thou art my lord and master."

Having accomplished his purpose, Siegfried left the room, but first he
took Brunhild's girdle and her ring. These he carried with him when
after the festivities he and Kriemhild returned to Xante on the Rhine.

Siegmund and Sieglinde abdicated in favor of their son, and for ten
years Siegfried and Kriemhild reigned happily. Then they were invited
to pay a visit to Gunther and Brunhild. They accepted, leaving their
little son Gunther in the care of the Nibelungs.

Brunhild received Kriemhild graciously, but at heart she was jealous
and wanted Kriemhild to acknowledge her as superior. One day they had
a hot dispute, Kriemhild declaring that her husband was without peer
in the world, and Brunhild retorting that since he was Gunther's
vassal he must be his inferior. Kriemhild made an angry avowal that
she would publicly assert her rank.

Both queens parted in a rage and proceeded to attire themselves in the
most gorgeous costumes they possessed. Accompanied by their
ladies-in-waiting they met at the church door. Brunhild bade Kriemhild
stand aside while she entered, and Kriemhild would not. A storm of
words followed. Finally Kriemhild insulted the other queen by
declaring that Brunhild was not a faithful wife.

"You loved Siegfried better than Gunther," she declared. "Here are
your girdle and ring which my husband gave to me." So saying, she
displayed the girdle and ring which Siegfried had unwisely given her
when he confided to her the story of Gunther's wooing.

Brunhild summoned Gunther to defend her, and he sent for Siegfried.
The latter publicly swore that his wife had not told the truth and
that Brunhild had never loved him or he her.

"This quarrel is disgraceful," he said. "I will teach my wife better
manners for the future." Gunther promised to do likewise.

The guests departed, but Brunhild still smarted from the insult and
longed for revenge. Hagen, finding her in tears, undertook to avenge
her. He continually reminded Gunther of the insult his wife had
received. The king at first paid no attention to the insinuations, but
at last he consented to an assault on Siegfried.

He asked the great hero to help him in a war which he pretended his
old enemy Ludeger was about to bring upon him. Siegfried consented,
and Kriemhild, because she loved her husband very deeply, was much
troubled. In her distress she confided to Hagen that Siegfried was
invulnerable except in one spot, between the shoulder blades, where a
lime leaf had rested and the dragon's blood had not touched him.

"Never fear," said Hagen, "I myself will help to protect him. You sew
a tiny cross on Siegfried's doublet, just over the vulnerable spot,
that I may be the better able to shield him."

Kriemhild promised to obey his instructions, and Hagen departed, well
pleased, to carry the news to Gunther.

At last the day came for Siegfried to leave his queen. He talked to
her and comforted her and kissed her rosy lips.

"Dear heart," he said, "why all these tears? I shall not be gone
long."

But she was thinking of what she had told Hagen, and wept and wept and
would not be comforted.

When Siegfried joined Gunther's party he was surprised to learn that
the rebellion had been quelled and that he was invited to join in a
hunt instead of a fray.

So he joined the hunting party. Now Siegfried was as great a hunter as
he was a warrior, and while the noonday meal was being prepared he
scoured the forest, slew several wild boars, caught a bear alive and
in a spirit of mischief turned him loose among the guests. Then, tired
and thirsty, he sat down, calling for a drink.

Not a bit of wine was at hand; it had all been carried to another part
of the forest. Hagen pointed out a spring near by and Siegfried
proposed a race, offering to run in full armor while the others ran
without armor or weapons. In spite of the handicap, Siegfried reached
the spring first.

Always polite, Siegfried bade his host, Gunther, drink first, while he
himself disarmed. Siegfried then stooped over the spring to drink, and
as he stooped, Hagen, gliding behind him, drove his spear into his
body at the exact spot where Kriemhild had embroidered the fatal mark.

Siegfried struggled to avenge himself, but found nothing but his
shield within reach. This he flung with such force at his murderer
that it knocked him down. Exhausted by the effort, the hero fell back
upon the grass, cursing the treachery of Gunther and Hagen.

Curses soon gave way to thoughts of Kriemhild, however, and overcoming
his anger he recommended her to the care of her brother Gunther. Then
the great hero died.

The hunting party agreed to carry the body back to Worms and say that
they had found it in the forest. But Hagen, bolder than the rest,
ordered the bearers to deposit the corpse at Kriemhild's door, where
she would see it when she went out for early mass the next morning. As
he expected, Kriemhild discovered her dead lord and fell senseless
upon him. Recovering, she cried out that he had been murdered: no
foeman in a fair fight could have killed the glorious knight.

A great funeral took place and Siegfried's body was laid in state in
the cathedral at Worms. Thither many came to view it and to express
their sympathy for the widow Kriemhild. The latter, suspecting
treachery, refused to listen to Gunther until he promised that all of
those present at the hunt should touch the body.

"Blood will flow afresh at the murderer's touch," he said.

One by one the hunters advanced, and when Hagen touched the great
warrior's form, lo, the blood flowed again from his wounds. At this
the Nibelung warriors wanted to avenge the dead, but Kriemhild would
not permit them to interrupt the funeral. So the ceremonies were
concluded and Siegfried's body was laid to rest.


LOHENGRIN AND ELSA THE BEAUTIFUL


The young Duchess of Brabant, Elsa the Beautiful, had gone into the
woods hunting, and becoming separated from her attendants, sat down to
rest under a wide-branching linden-tree.

She was sorely troubled, for many lords and princes were asking for
her hand in marriage. More urgent than all the others was the
invincible hero, Count Telramund, her former guardian, who since the
death of her father had ruled over the land with masterly hand. Now
the duke, her father, on his death-bed had promised Telramund that he
might have Elsa for wife, should she be willing; and Telramund was
continually reminding her of this. But Elsa blushed with shame at the
mere thought of such a union, for Telramund was a rough warrior, as
much hated for his cruelty as he was feared for his strength. To make
matters worse he was now at the court of the chosen King Henry of
Saxony, threatening her with war and even worse calamities.

In the shade of the linden Elsa thought of all this, and pitied her
own loneliness in that no brother or friend stood at her side to help
her. Then the sweet singing of birds seemed to comfort her, and she
dropped into a gentle sleep. As she dreamed it seemed to her that a
young knight stepped out of the depths of the forest. Holding up a
small silver bell, he spoke in friendly tones:

"If you should need my help, just ring this."

Elsa tried to take the trinket, but she could neither rise nor reach
the outstretched hand. Then she awoke.

Thinking over the apparition Elsa noted a falcon circling over her
head. It came nearer and finally settled on her shoulder. Around his
neck hung a bell exactly like that she had seen in the dream. She
loosened it, and as she did so the bird rose and flew away. But she
still held the little bell in her hand, and in her soul was fresh hope
and peace.

When she returned to the castle she found there a message, bidding her
appear before the king in Cologne on the Rhine. Filled with confidence
in the protection of higher powers, she did not hesitate to obey. In
gorgeous costume, with many followers, she set out.

King Henry was a man who loved justice and exercised it, but his
kingdom was in constant danger from inroads by wild Huns, and for this
reason he wished to do whatever would win the favor of the powerful
Count Telramund. When, however, he saw Elsa in all her beauty and
innocence he hesitated in his purpose.

The plaintiff brought forward three men who testified that the duchess
had entered into a secret union with one of her vassals. Only two of
these men were shown to be perfidious; the testimony of the other
seemed valid, though this was not enough to condemn her.

Then Telramund seized his sword, crying out that God Himself should be
the judge, and that a duel should decide the matter. So a duel was
arranged to take place three days later.

Elsa cast her eyes around the circle of nobles, but saw no one grasp
his sword in defense of her innocence. Fear of the mighty warrior
Telramund filled them all.

Remembering the little bell, she drew it forth from her pocket and
rang it. The clear tones broke the stillness, grew louder and louder
until they reached even the distant mountains.

"My champion will appear in the contest," she said; whereupon the
count let forth such a mocking laugh that the hearts of all were
filled with intense fear.

The day of the contest was at hand. The king sat on his high throne
and watched the majestic river that sent its mighty waters through the
valley. Princes and brave knights were gathered together. Before them
stood Telramund, clad in armor, and at his side the accused Elsa,
adorned with every grace that Nature can bestow.

Three times the mighty hero challenged some one to come forward as a
champion for the accused girl, but no one stirred. Then arose from the
Rhine the sound of sweet music; something silvery gleamed in the
distance, and as it came nearer it was plain that it was a swan with
silver feathers. With a silver chain he was pulling a small ship, in
which lay sleeping a knight clad in bright armor.

When the bark landed, the knight awoke, rose, and blew three times on
a golden horn. This was the signal that he took up the challenge.
Quickly he strode into the lists.

"Your name and descent?" cried the herald.

"My name is Lohengrin," answered the stranger, "my origin royal: more
it is not necessary to tell."

"Enough," broke in the king, "nobility is written on your brow."

Trumpets gave the signal for the fight to begin. Telramund's strokes
fell thick as hail, but suddenly the stranger knight rose and with one
fearful stroke split the count's helmet and cut his head.

"God has decided," cried the king. "His judgment is right; but you,
noble knight, will help us in the campaign against the barbarian
hordes and will be the leader of the detachment which the fair duchess
will send from Brabant."

Gladly Lohengrin consented, and amid cries of delight from the
assembled people he rode over to Elsa, who greeted him as her
deliverer.

Lohengrin escorted Elsa back to Brabant, and on the way love awoke in
their hearts, and they knew that they were destined for each other. In
the castle of Antwerp they were pledged, and a few weeks later the
marriage took place. As the bridal couple were leaving the cathedral,
Lohengrin said to Elsa:

"One thing I must ask of you, and that is that you never inquire
concerning my origin, for in the hour that you put that question must
I surely part from you."

It was not long after the ceremony that the cry to arms came from King
Henry, and Elsa accompanied her husband and his troops to Cologne,
where all the counts of the kingdom were assembled. Here there were
many inquiries concerning Lohengrin, and when none seemed to know of
his origin, some jealously claimed that he was the son of a heathen
magician, and that he gained his victories by the power of black arts.

Elsa, who had heard rumors of these charges, was deeply grieved; for
she knew the noble heart of her husband. He had even relieved her
fears for his safety by the assurance that he was under the protection
of powers higher than human.

But she could not banish the evil rumors from her mind, and forgetting
the warning her husband had given her on the day of her marriage, she
dropped to her knees and asked him concerning his birth.

"Dear wife," he cried in great distress, "now will I tell to you and
to the king and to all the assembled princes, what up to this time I
have kept secret; but know that the time of our parting is at hand."

Then the hero led his trembling wife before the king and his nobles
who were assembled on the banks of the Rhine.

"The son of Parsifal am I," he said, "the son of Parsifal, the keeper
of the Holy Grail. Gladly would I have helped you, O King, in your
fight against the barbarians, but an unavoidable fate calls me away.
You will, however, be victorious, and under your descendants will
Germany become a powerful nation."

When he finished speaking there was a deep silence, and then, as upon
his arrival, there rose the sound of music--not joyful this time, but
solemn, like a chant at the grave of the dead. It came nearer and
again the swan and the boat appeared.

"Farewell, dear one," Lohengrin cried, folding his wife in his arms.
"Too dearly did I hold you and your pleasant land of earth; now a
higher duty calls me."

Weeping, Elsa clung to him; but the swan song sounded louder, like a
warning. He tore himself free and stepped into the boat. Was it the
ship of death and destruction, or only the ship that carried the
blessed to the sacred place of the Grail? No one knew.

Elsa, lonely and sad, did not live long after the separation. Her only
hope was that she would be reunited to her dear husband; and she
parted willingly with her own life, as other children of earth have
done when they have lost all that they held most precious.


FRITHIOF THE BOLD


Frithiof was a Norwegian hero, grandson of Viking, who was the largest
and strongest man of his time. Viking had sailed the sea in a dragon
ship, meeting with many adventures, and Thorsten, Frithiof's father,
had likewise sailed abroad, capturing many priceless treasures and
making a great name for himself.

Frithiof was entrusted to the care of Hilding, his foster father, and
in his care, also, were Halfdan and Helgé, King Bélé's sons, and, some
years later, their little sister, Ingeborg. Frithiof and Ingeborg
became firm friends, and as the lad increased in bravery and strength,
the girl increased in beauty and loveliness of soul. Hilding, noticing
how each day they became fonder of each other, called Frithiof to him
and bade him remember that he was only a humble subject and could
never hope to wed Ingeborg, the king's only daughter, descended from
the great god Odin. The warning, however, came too late, for Frithiof
already loved the fair maiden, and vowed that he would have her for
his bride at any cost.

Soon after this the king died, leaving his kingdom to his two sons and
giving instructions that his funeral mound should be erected in sight
of that of his dear friend Thorsten, so that their spirits might not
be separated even in death. Then Ingeborg went to live with her
brothers, the Kings of Sogn, while Frithiof retired to his own home at
Framnas, closed in by the mountains and the sea.

Frithiof was now one of the wealthiest and most envied of land-owners.
His treasures were richer by far than those of any king.

In the spring he held a great celebration, which the kings of Sogn
and their sister Ingeborg, among many other guests, attended. Frithiof
and Ingeborg were much together, and Frithiof was very happy to learn
that Ingeborg returned his affection.

Great was his grief when the time came for her to sail away. Not long
had she been gone, however, when he vowed to Björn, his chief
companion, that he would follow after her and ask for her hand. His
ship was prepared and soon he touched the shore near the temple of the
god Balder.

His request was not granted and Helgé dismissed him contemptuously. In
a rage at the insult Frithiof lifted his sword; but remembering that
he stood on consecrated ground near Bélé's tomb, he spared the king,
only cutting his heavy shield in two to show the strength of his
blade.

Soon after his departure another suitor, the aged King Ring of Norway
sought the hand of Ingeborg in marriage, and being refused, collected
an army and prepared to make war on Helgé and Halfdan.

Then the two brothers were glad to send a messenger after Frithiof,
asking his aid. The hero, still angry, refused; but he hastened at
once to Ingeborg. He found her in tears at the shrine of Balder, and
although it was considered a sin for a man and woman to exchange words
in the sacred temple, he spoke to her, again making known his love.

The kings, her brothers, were away at war, but Frithiof stayed near
Ingeborg, and when they returned, promised to free them from the
oppression of Sigurd Ring if in return they would promise him the hand
of their sister. But the kings had heard of how Frithiof had spoken to
Ingeborg in the temple, and although they feared Sigurd they would not
grant the request. Instead he was condemned in punishment to sail away
to the Orkney Islands to claim tribute from the king Angantyr.

Frithiof departed in his ship Ellida, and Ingeborg stayed behind,
weeping bitterly. And as soon as the vessel was out of sight the
brothers sent for two witches--Heid and Ham--bidding them stir up such
a tempest on the sea that even the god-given ship Ellida could not
withstand its fury.

But no tempest could frighten the brave Frithiof. Singing a cheery
song he stood at the helm, caring nothing for the waves that raged
about the ship. He comforted his crew, and then climbed the mast to
keep a sharp lookout for danger.

From there he spied a huge whale, upon which the two witches were
seated, delighted at the tempest they had stirred up. Speaking to his
good ship, which could both hear and obey, he bade it run down the
whale and the witches.

This Ellida did. Whale and witches sank; the sea grew red with their
blood; the waves were calmed. Again the sun smiled over the hardy
sailors. But many of the crew were worn out by the battle with the
elements and had to be carried ashore by Frithiof and Björn when they
reached the Orkney Islands.

Now the watchman at Angantyr's castle had reported the ship and the
gale, and Angantyr had declared that only Frithiof and Ellida could
weather such a storm. One of his vassals, Atlé, caught up his weapons
and hurried forth to challenge the great hero.

Frithiof had no weapons, but with a turn of his wrist he threw his
opponent.

"Go and get your weapons," Atlé said, when he saw that Frithiof would
have killed him.

Knowing that Atlé was a true soldier and would not run away, Frithiof
left him in search of his sword; but when he returned and found his
opponent calmly awaiting death, he was generous, and bade him rise and
live.

Angantyr vowed that he owed no tribute to Helgé, and would pay him
none, but to Frithiof he gave a vast treasure, telling him that he
might dispose of it as he would.

So Frithiof sailed back to the kings of Sogn, confident that he could
win Ingeborg. What was his dismay, therefore, to learn that Helgé and
Halfdan had already given their sister in marriage to Sigurd Ring. In
a rage he bade his men destroy all the vessels in the harbor, while he
strode toward the temple of Balder where Helgé and his wife were. He
flung Angantyr's purse of gold in Helgé's face, and seeing the ring he
had given to Ingeborg on the hand of Helgé's wife snatched it roughly
from her. In trying to get it back she dropped the image of the god,
which she had just been anointing, into the fire. It was quickly
consumed, while the rising flames set fire to the temple.

Horror-stricken, Frithiof tried to stop the blaze, and when he could
not, hurried away to his ship.

So Frithiof became an exile, and a wanderer on the face of the earth.
For many years he lived the life of a pirate or viking, exacting
tribute from other ships or sacking them if they would not pay
tribute; for this occupation in the days of Frithiof was considered
wholly respectable. It was followed again and again by the brave men
of the North.

But Frithiof was often homesick, and longed to enter a harbor, and
lead again a life of peace.

At last he decided to visit the court of Sigurd Ring and find out
whether Ingeborg was really happy. Landing, he wrapped himself in an
old cloak and approached the court. He found a seat on a bench near
the door, as beggars usually did; but when one insulting courtier
mocked him he lifted the offender in his mighty hand and swung him
high over his head.

At this Sigurd Ring invited the old man to remove his mantle and take
a seat near him. With surprise Sigurd and his courtiers saw step from
the tattered mantle a handsome warrior, richly clad; but only Ingeborg
knew who he was.

"Who are you who comes to us thus?" asked Sigurd Ring.

"I am Thiolf, a thief," was the answer, "and I have grown to manhood
in the Land of Sorrow."

Sigurd invited him to remain, and he soon became the almost constant
companion of the king and queen.

One spring day Sigurd and Frithiof had ridden away on a hunting
expedition, and the old king being tired from the chase lay down on
the ground to rest, feigning sleep. The birds and beasts of the forest
drew near and whispered to Frithiof that he should slay the king and
have Ingeborg for his own wife. But Frithiof was too fine and loyal to
listen to such suggestions.

Awaking, Sigurd Ring called Frithiof to him.

"You are Frithiof the Bold," he said, "and from the first I knew you.
Be patient now a little longer and you shall have Ingeborg, for my end
is near."

Soon after this Sigurd died, commending his wife to the young hero's
loving care. And at his own request the funeral feast was closed by
the public betrothal of Ingeborg and Frithiof.

The people, admiring his bravery, wanted to make Frithiof king, but he
would not listen to their pleadings. Instead he lifted the little son
of Sigurd upon his shield.

"Behold your king," he cried, "and until he is grown to manhood I will
stand beside him."

So Frithiof married his beloved Ingeborg, and later, so the story
runs, he returned to his own country and built again the temple of
Balder, more beautiful by far than any before.

[Illustration: FRITHIOF AND INGEBORG IN THE TEMPLE OF BALDER]


WAYLAND THE SMITH


King Nidung had one daughter and three sons. The oldest son, Otvin,
was away from court, guarding the outposts of the country; the other
two sons were still children.

One day the two boys came with their bows to the great smith Wayland,
asking him to make arrows for them.

"Not today," the smith answered. "I have not time; and besides, even
though you are the sons of the king, I may not work for you without
the wish and consent of your father. If he is willing, you may come
again; but you must promise to do exactly as I tell you."

"What is that?" one of the boys ventured.

"You must," said Wayland, "come on a day when snow has freshly fallen,
and you must walk facing backward all the way."

The children cared little whether they walked backward or forward, as
long as they got their arrows, and so they promised. To their delight
next morning they found that snow had fallen. Quickly they set out for
the smithy, walking backward all the way.

"O Wayland, make us the arrows," they cried. "The king, our father,
has said that we might have them."

But Wayland had no intention of making the arrows, for the king had
treated him unjustly and cruelly, and he saw the opportunity for
revenge. With his mighty hammer he struck the two children on the head
and killed them. Then he threw their bodies into a cave adjoining the
smithy.

When the children did not return the castle messengers were sent out
to find them. They inquired at the smithy.

"The boys have gone," said Wayland. "I made arrows for them, and no
doubt they have gone into the woods to shoot birds."

Returning to the castle the messengers saw the footprints in the snow,
and since they pointed toward home, decided that the children must
have gone back. But they were not there. Then Nidung sent his servants
far and wide throughout the country, and when the boys were nowhere to
be found, he concluded that they must have been devoured by wild
animals.

When all the searches were over, Wayland brought forth the bodies of
the two children, stripped the bones of flesh, whitened them, and made
them into goblets and vessels for the king's table, mounting them with
silver and gold. The king was delighted with them, and had them placed
upon his board whenever there were guests of honor present.

A long time later, Badhild, the king's daughter, while playing with
her companions in the garden one day, broke a costly ring that Nidung
had given her. She was greatly vexed and feared to tell her father.

"Why not take it to Wayland to mend?" suggested one of her trusted
maidens.

So Badhild gave the trinket to the girl and bade her take it to
Wayland. She brought it back with her.

"Without the command of the king he will not mend it," she said,
"unless the king's daughter herself will come to him."

Badhild set out immediately for the smithy. There Wayland substituted
for her ring his own, which had the curious magic power of making its
wearer fall in love with the smith.

The smith slipped the jewel on her finger, gazed into her eyes and
said, "This ring you shall keep as well as your own, if you will be my
bride."

The maiden could not refuse, and so the two were married, agreeing to
keep their union a secret.

About this time Eigil, the brother of Wayland, came to the court of
Nidung. He was a celebrated man and the most skilful master of the bow
to be found anywhere in the world. The king welcomed him, and he
remained a long time at the court. One day Nidung proposed that, since
he was such a skilful bowman, he should try shooting an apple from the
head of his own son. Eigil agreed.

"You may have only one trial," the king said.

So an apple was placed on the head of Eigil's three-year-old son, and
Eigil, taking his bow, aimed, and with the first arrow struck the
apple in the center, so that it fell from the child's head.

"Why did you have three arrows?" the king asked.

"Sire," replied Eigil, "I will not lie to you. If I had pierced my son
with the first arrow, the other two would have pierced you."

The king, strange to say, did not take offense at this speech, but on
the contrary showed Eigil still greater favor than he had in the past.

The archer frequently visited his brother Wayland, but Badhild came
but seldom to her husband's house. One day the two came together at
Wayland's special request. When they were leaving Wayland embraced
Badhild and said to her:

"You will be the mother of a boy--your child and mine. It may be that
I shall go away from here and never see his face; but you must tell
him that I have made for him worthy weapons and stowed them in safety
in the place where the water enters and the wind goes out (the
forge)."

The next time Wayland saw Eigil he bade him bring to him all kinds of
feathers, large and small.

"I wish to make for myself a doublet of feathers," he explained.

Then Eigil shot many birds of prey and brought their feathers to
Wayland. From them he made a flying shirt, clad in which he looked
more like an eagle than a man.

Eigil admired the workmanship and Wayland asked him to try it.

"How shall I rise, how fly, and how alight?" asked Eigil.

"You must rise against the wind, and fly first low and then high, but
you must alight with the wind."

Eigil did as he was told, and had a good deal of trouble in alighting.
Finally he knocked his head with such force on the ground that he lost
consciousness. When he came to himself Wayland spoke:

"Tell me, brother Eigil, do you like the shirt?"

"If it were as easy to alight as it is to fly," was the answer, "I
should fly away and you would never see me again."

"I will alter what is wrong," said the smith, making a slight change
in the shirt. Then with Eigil's help he put on the feathers, flapped
his wings and rose into the air. He lighted on a turret of the castle
and called down to Eigil.

"I did not tell you the truth when I said that you should alight
_with_ the wind, for I knew that if you found out how easy it was to
fly you would never give me the shirt back again. You can see for
yourself that all birds rise against the wind and alight in the same
way. I am going home to my own country, but first I must have a few
words with Nidung. And, remember, if he bids you shoot me, shoot under
the left wing, for there I have fastened a bladder filled with blood."

With these words Wayland flew to the highest tower of the king's
castle and called to the king as he passed with his courtiers.

[Illustration: WAYLAND THE SMITH, WEARING THE WINGS HE HAD FASHIONED]

"Are you a bird, Wayland?" asked the king.

"Sometimes I am a bird and sometimes a man," was the reply; "but now I
am going away from here and never again will you have me in your
power. Listen while I speak. You promised once to give me your
daughter and the half of your kingdom, but you made of me instead an
outcast--because I defended myself and killed the wretches who would
have taken my life.

"You surprised me while I slept and stole my arms and my treasures;
and not satisfied with that you laid a net for my feet and made of me
a cripple. But I have had my revenge. Do you know where your sons
are?"

"My sons!" cried Nidung. "Oh, tell me what you know of them."

"I will tell you, but first you must swear to me by the deck of the
ship and the edge of the shield, by the back of the horse and the
blade of the sword that you will do no harm to my wife and child."

Nidung swore and Wayland began his speech:

"Go to my smithy, and there in the cave you will find the remains of
your sons. I killed them, and of their bones made vessels for your
table. Your daughter Badhild is my wife. So have I repaid evil with
evil, and our connection is ended."

With these words he flew away, while Nidung in great anger cried:
"Eigil, shoot at Wayland."

"I cannot harm my own brother," replied Eigil.

"Shoot," cried the king, "or I will kill you."

Then Eigil laid an arrow in his bow and shot Wayland as he had been
instructed, under his left arm, until the blood flowed and everyone
thought that the great smith had received his death wound.

But Wayland, unharmed, flew away to Zealand and made his home there in
his father's land.

Nidung, meantime, was sad and unhappy, and it was not long before he
died and Otvin, his son, succeeded to the throne.

Otvin was soon loved and honored throughout the kingdom because of his
great justice and kindness. His sister lived with him at court, and
there her son, Widge, was born.

One day Wayland sent messengers to Otvin, asking for peace and pardon,
and when these were granted he traveled again to Jutland and was
received with great honor.

The mighty smith was very glad to see his wife again and very proud of
his three-year-old son; but he would not yield to Otvin's request that
he remain in Jutland. Instead he returned to Zealand with Badhild and
Widge, and there they lived happily for many years.

Wayland was known throughout all the world for his knowledge and
skill, and his son Widge was a powerful hero, whose praises were much
celebrated in song.

So ends the story of Wayland, the great smith of the northern
countries.


TWARDOWSKI, THE POLISH FAUST


Toward the close of the eighteenth century there was pointed out to
visitors in the old town of Krakau the house of the magician
Twardowski, who quite properly was called the Faust of Poland, because
of his dealings with the Evil One.

In his youth Twardowski had followed the study of medicine, and with
such industry, such eagerness and such a clear mind did he practice
his profession that it was not long before he was the most celebrated
doctor in all Poland. But Twardowski was not satisfied with this. He
craved greater and still greater power.

At last one day, as he was reading, he found in an old book of magic
that for which he had long been seeking--the formula for summoning the
devil. When night came a storm had risen, but caring not for that he
hurried away to the lonely mountain Kremenki. There, in a rudely
constructed hut, he began his incantations.

Before long there was an earthquake; great rocks were loosened, the
ground opened at Twardowski's feet and flames leaped out; and in the
flames appeared the Evil One himself, in the form of a man, clad in a
red cloak with the well-known pointed red cap.

"What do you wish?" the devil asked.

"The power of your most secret wisdom," was the answer.

"And how is this to be done?"

"You shall make me the most celebrated of all the learned men of the
century, and shall besides give me such happiness as no man has ever
enjoyed upon this earth before."

"So be it," said the devil. "But on condition that at the end of
seven years I gain possession of your soul."

"You may take me," answered Twardowski, "but only in Rome may you have
power over me. Thither, at the end of seven years, will I go."

The devil hesitated over this clause, but thinking of the fun he could
have in the holy city, finally agreed. Leaning against the wall of
stone he wrote the compact, which Twardowski, making a slight wound in
his arm, signed with his own blood.

When Twardowski descended from the mountain and made his way, book
under arm, through the valley, he heard the bells in all the towers of
the city ringing out clearly and solemnly on the still night air. He
listened, wondering at the unaccustomed noise, then hurried into the
town, inquiring from every one he met what the occasion was. But no
one seemed to have heard the sound.

Then a deep feeling of sadness came over him as he realized the
meaning of the bells. They were the funeral knell of his own soul.

When morning came, however, doubts were forgotten, and Twardowski was
glad to have the devil at his command. The first thing that he
demanded was to have all the silver of Poland gathered together in one
place and covered over with great mounds of sand.

Similar requests followed, and it was not long before the devil
repented of his bargain. One day it would please Twardowski to fly
without wings through the air; on another, to the delight of the
crowd, to gallop backward on a cock; on another to float in a boat
without a rudder or sail, accompanied by some maiden who for the
moment had inflamed his heart. One day, by the use of his magic
mirror, he set fire to the castle of an enemy a mile away. This last
feat made him greatly feared by people far and wide.

At last the seven years were up. The devil appeared to Twardowski and
said:

"Twardowski, the time of our pact is over, and I command you to
fulfill your promise and go to Rome."

"What shall I do there?"

"Give me your immortal soul," was the answer.

"Do you think I am a fool?" asked Twardowski.

"You gave me your promise to go to Rome after seven years."

"That I have already done," said Twardowski, "and I did not promise to
stay in Rome."

"Noble deceiver!" exclaimed the Evil One.

"Stupid devil!" cried Twardowski.

Then after a struggle the devil vanished and Twardowski returned home.

For over a year he pored incessantly over his books of magic, until at
last he found a formula for warding off death. Then he called his
disciple Famulus to him and explained that he was going to test the
formula.

"You have always obliged me without question," said Twardowski, "and I
expect you to now. Take this knife and thrust it into my heart."

"God forbid!" cried Famulus.

"Why are you frightened? I know what I am doing. Take the knife and
kill me, as the parchment directs."

"I cannot."

"You must," insisted Twardowski.

"It is impossible!"

"No more exclamations. Do as I tell you."

"Oh, oh, oh!" wailed Famulus.

"Strike!" thundered Twardowski, "or I will kill you this instant."

Then Famulus did as he was bid and forced the blade into his master's
heart.

Twardowski uttered a low cry, fell, and was soon dead.

Famulus dropped trembling into a chair and covered his face with his
hands. Then he remembered that he must read the remainder of the
parchment in order to find out what he must do to restore the body to
life.

Then he set about the task, severed the limbs of the dead body, and
worked and brewed and distilled until the elixir described in the
parchment was prepared.

With the elixir he rubbed the members of the master's body, put them
together, and laid the corpse in a coffin. This he buried on the
following night, explaining to Twardowski's friends that such had been
the master's wish.

Now the parchment stated that the body must remain in the grave seven
years, seven months, seven days and seven hours; so Famulus could do
nothing but wait. At last the time had expired, and on a snowy, cold
December night he found his way to the grave. He dug out the coffin,
brushed off the snow and earth, opened the casket and found--not the
body of Twardowski, but that of a child who lay sleeping in a bed of
fragrant violets.

"The child is like Twardowski," Famulus thought, and he gathered him
up under his cloak and carried him home. The next morning the child
was the size of a twelve-year old; and after seven weeks he was a
full-grown man.

Twardowski, who now seemed quite himself, only younger, and stronger,
thanked Famulus and resumed again his study of magic. He desired,
above all things, to be freed forever from his compact with the devil.
This, he read in one of the books, he might do if he would brave the
terrors of the underworld.

So Twardowski determined to enter the gates of hell. At his magic
speech the ground opened and he began the path of descent. Blue flames
lighted the way. Deeper and deeper he went through dark and winding
passages. At last he reached the underworld itself, and many awful
sights did he behold.

And the farther he went the more frightened did he become. He could
not help feeling that the devil had plotted something against him.
Finally he found himself in a small room, and cast a hasty glance
around, looking for a means of escape.

Seeing a child in a cradle in one corner of the room he seized it
hastily, threw his cloak around it, and was about to leave when the
door opened and the Evil One entered.

He made a respectful bow and said, "Will you be good enough to go with
me now?"

"Why so?" asked Twardowski, obstinately.

"Because of our agreement."

"But," said the magician, "only in Rome have you power over me."

"Yes," replied the devil, "and Rome is the name of this house."

"You think to trick me by a pun; but you cannot. I carry this talisman
of innocence," and throwing aside his cloak, he disclosed the sleeping
child.

Anger showed in the face of the devil; but he stepped nearer to
Twardowski and said softly:

"What are you thinking of, Twardowski? Have you forgotten your
promise? The nobleman's word is sacred to him."

Pride awoke in the breast of the magician.

"I must keep my word," he said, laying the child back in the crib, and
surrendering himself.

On the shoulders of the devil two wings appeared, like the wings of a
bat. He seized Twardowski and flew away with him, mounting higher and
higher into the night. The magician was so terrified and suffered
such anguish in the clutches of the Evil One that in a few moments he
was changed into an old man, but he did not lose consciousness. At
last so high were they that cities appeared like flies and Krakau with
its mighty turrets like two spiders. Deeply moved, Twardowski looked
down upon the scene of all his struggles and all his joys.

But higher and higher they went--higher than any eagle has ever
flown--and more lonely and more fearful did it seem to Twardowski.
Only occasionally bright stars passed by them, or fiery meteors,
leaving a long streak of light behind.

At last they came to the moon, which stared at them with dead eyes.
Then a song that Twardowski had read in his mother's hymn book rose to
his lips. And as he repeated mechanically the prayer his mother had
taught him an angel suddenly appeared and said:

"Satan, let Twardowski go; and you, Twardowski, hang you there between
heaven and earth, to atone for your sin until the Last Judgment. Then
will you be reunited with your mother in heaven. The prayer which you
remembered in your hour of need has saved you."

And so, according to the story, Twardowski is suspended in the vault
of heaven to this very day.

[Illustration: TWARDOWSKI IN THE ARMS OF THE EVIL ONE]


ILIA MUROMEC OF RUSSIA


When we think of Russia we think of a great dark country--a country of
long winters and abundant snow and ice. It was here, long ago, in the
city of Kiev, that the hero Ilia Muromec was born.

There was at that time a great castle in the city, and this was well
protected by Ilia Muromec and his twelve armed knights. For thirty
long years had they kept watch at their post and no stranger had ever
passed by them.

But one morning Dobrnja, the knight after Ilia Muromec most powerful,
perceived on the ground the imprint of a horse's hoof. Then he said to
the knights:

"Now is the mighty Zidovin in the neighborhood of our castle. What is
your will?"

The knights with one accord agreed that Dobrnja should ride out
against the stranger. So Dobrnja mounted his war-horse and galloped
forth to meet Zidovin, calling to him in a deep, gruff voice:

"Here, my insolent sir, you have come all the way to our castle and
have omitted to send greeting to our captain Ilia Muromec, or to
inform him of your approach."

When Zidovin heard these words he turned quickly and rode toward
Dobrnja with such force that springs and lakes appeared wherever the
hoofs of his black horse touched the ground. And the trembling of the
earth caused great waves to rise on the sea.

Dobrnja was so frightened that he jerked his horse about and with the
swiftness of a cyclone galloped back to the castle. When he entered,
almost exhausted, he told in great excitement of his encounter.

Immediately Ilia decided to go forth himself against the enemy, and
all the entreaties of his knights could not restrain him. So he rode
out to a high point where he could see Zidovin, watch him as he threw
his hundred-weight club up into the clouds, caught it with one hand,
and swung it around in the air as if it had been a feather.

Then Ilia spurred his horse and rode toward Zidovin. A horrible fight
ensued. Swords clashed and deep fissures were made in the earth, but
neither knight fell. It seemed as if both heroes had grown fast to
their saddles, so unshakeable were they.

At last they jumped from their horses and fought hand to hand with
lances. All day long and all night long they struggled, until Ilia
finally fell wounded to the ground. Zidovin kneeled on his breast,
drew out his sharp knife, and was about to cut off the head of his
enemy.

Ilia meantime was thinking, "Surely the holy fathers did not lie to me
when they said that I should not lose my life in battle."

Then suddenly he felt his strength redoubled, and he hurled Zidovin
from him with such force that his body touched the clouds before it
fell again in the moist earth at his feet. Cutting off the warrior's
head, he mounted his horse and rode back to the castle. To his knights
he said:

"Thirty years have I ridden in the field and thirty years have I
fought with heroes and tested my strength; but such a mighty man as
Zidovin have I in all that time never met."

[Illustration: ZIDOVIN THREW THE IRON CLUB INTO THE AIR AND CAUGHT IT
WITH ONE HAND]


KRALEWITZ MARKO OF SERVIA


Kralewitz Marko was the son of a Servian king who lived many, many
years ago. He was very fond of hunting, and one day he rode forth on
his horse Saria to the mountain Sargau. Being tired, he dismounted,
tied his horse to a tree, sat down in its shade and fell asleep.

And as he slept it happened that Arbanes Neda with his seven brothers
rode by. They all dismounted, lifted Kralewitz, bound him to his
horse, and rode away with him to Jedrena, where they presented him to
the vizier.

Highly pleased over the gift, the vizier took the king's son and threw
him into prison. Two long years Kralewitz lay there, longing for
liberty and home. Then he learned that in a few days he was to be
executed.

Immediately he wrote a letter to his friend, Milos Obilis, asking for
help. This important message he entrusted to his only companion, a
white falcon. Tying the letter under the bird's wing he set it free.

The falcon easily found its way, alighted on Milos' window, and was
admitted. Scarcely had Milos read the letter, when he and two of his
friends were ready to set out for Jedrena. They reached there the day
before the execution.

In the morning the gate of the city was opened and Marko was led out.
Milos and his companions accompanied the mournful procession to an
open field in which the execution was to take place. Two Arabs stood
up with gleaming swords prepared to cut off Marko's head.

"Hold on, brothers," cried Milos. "I will give you a sharper sword
with which to cut off the malicious head of the noble Piam. See, with
this sword did the good-for-nothing treacherously slay my father.
Cursed be his hand!"

With these words he rushed to Marko's side; then with one swift stroke
he cut off the head of one Arab, and with another the head of the
other.

With still another stroke he severed the chains that bound Marko, and
Marko, seizing a sword, swung himself into his saddle, and with his
friends began to attack the horde of Turks. Frightened, the Turks fled
before them, and Marko and his companions returned to their own
country.

Marko waited for and soon found the opportunity of showing his
gratitude to his friend, for Milos and two of his brothers were thrown
into prison in Varadin. Milos wrote with his own blood a letter to
Marko, asking for help.

Then the king's son sprang to his horse Saria and rode to Varadin.
Outside of the city he dismounted, stuck his spear in the earth, tied
Saria and began drinking the black wine which he had brought with him.
He poured it into huge beakers, half of which he drank himself, and
half of which he gave to Saria.

At the same time a beautiful maiden, the daughter-in-law of the
general, passed by. When she saw the king's son she was frightened and
ran and told her father-in-law.

Then the general sent out his son Velimir with three hundred men to
take Marko prisoner. The knights encircled Kralewitz Marko, but he
continued drinking his wine and paid no attention to them. But Saria
noticed them, and drawing near her master began beating the ground
with her hoofs.

At this Marko looked up and saw himself surrounded. He emptied his
beaker, threw it to the ground, and sprang to his horse.

[Illustration: THEY GAGGED MARKO AND BOUND HIM TO HIS HORSE]

Like a falcon among doves Marko charged against the enemy. He cut off
the heads of some and drove the rest before him into the Danube.
Velimir tried to flee, but Marko threw him from his horse, tied his
hands and feet and bound him to Saria. Then again he began to drink
his wine.

All this the maiden watched and reported to her father. He gathered
together three thousand knights and rode forth against the stranger.
They surrounded Marko, but he was undismayed. Bravely he charged
against them, his sword in his right hand, his spear in his left, and
the reins held between his teeth.

Every knight he touched with either sword or spear fell instantly to
the ground, and when Vuca, the general, wholly dismayed, tried to
escape on his fiery Arabian horse, Marko followed him, threw him,
bound him, and led him to the place where his son lay. Then he bound
the two together, tossed them on the saddle of the Arabian horse and
rode home. There he put them in prison.

Hearing this, the wife of the general wrote a letter to Marko, begging
for mercy for her husband and son. Marko promised to release them on
condition that she release Milos and his brothers. This she did,
honoring them and making them rich presents.

"Now, for the love of Heaven," said she, "see that my husband and my
son return to me."

"Never fear," answered Milos. "Give me the general's black horse;
adorn him as the general adorned him; give me a golden chariot with
twelve horses, such as the general rides in when he journeys to the
emperor in Vienna; and give me the robe that the general wears on
state occasions."

The wife provided all that he asked, and gave the prisoners for
themselves a thousand ducats. Then they rode away.

Marko welcomed them, released the general and his son and provided
them with a strong body-guard back to Varadin. Then Milos and his
brothers divided the ducats among them, kissed the hand of the king's
son, and rode away into their own country.


THE DECISION OF LIBUSCHA


There dwelt once in the neighborhood of Grünberg Castle in Bohemia two
brothers--Staglow and Chrudis, of the distinguished family of
Klemowita--and these two had fallen into a fierce dispute over the
inheritance of their father's lands. The older son Chrudis thought
that he should inherit all of the estate--and that is the custom in
some countries, you know--while the younger son, Staglow, declared
that the property should be equally divided.

Now it happened that a sister of the princess Libuscha Vyched lived at
the court. She entreated the princess to settle the quarrel according
to law.

The princess yielded to her wish, and decided that the brothers should
either inherit their father's estate jointly or divide it into equal
shares.

All the lords of the country assembled to hear the rendering of the
decision--brave knights from far and near. Chrudis and Staglow, of
course, were present, very curious to hear what their princess would
decide. Pungel of Hadio, proclaimed far and wide as the bravest of all
the knights of Bohemia, was also among the company.

The princess herself rendered the decision, standing in white robes
before her people. The two brothers stood near, and scarcely had the
last word been uttered when the knight Chrudis, who, as first-born,
claimed the estate for himself, sprang excitedly to his feet, mocking
and insulting the princess. "Poor people," he said, addressing the
assembly, "I am sorry for you who have to be ruled over by a girl."

[Illustration: LIBUSCHA INSULTED BY CHRUDIS]

Deeply grieved, the maiden-princess Libuscha rose, explaining that
she would no longer rule alone. She commanded the people to choose her
a husband.

"No matter whom you choose," she declared, "I will abide by your
decision."

Thereupon the assembled subjects cried out that they would have Pungel
of Hadio as prince; and Libuscha, stepping toward him, extended her
hand to him in token of her agreement.

Thus did Pungel become the liege lord of the Bohemian nobles.

No one knows how long ago all this happened, for the manuscript that
tells the story was very old when it was discovered in the year 1817.
It had lain for many, many years among other old documents in the
great chests that lined the walls of the courtroom in the ancient
Castle Grünberg in Bohemia. The manuscript is now in a great museum in
Prague, and perhaps, some day, when you go there, you will see it for
yourself.


COUNT ROLAND OF FRANCE


The trumpets sounded and the army went on its way to France. The next
day King Charles called his lords together. "You see," said he, "these
narrow passes. Whom shall I place to command the rear-guard? Choose
you a man yourselves."

Said Ganelon, "Whom should we choose but my son-in-law, Count Roland?
You have no man in your host so valiant. Of a truth he will be the
salvation of France."

The King said when he heard these words, "What ails you, Ganelon? You
look like to one possessed."

When Count Roland knew what was proposed concerning him, he spake out
as a true knight should speak: "I am right thankful to you,
father-in-law, that you have caused me to be put in this place. Of a
truth the King of France shall lose nothing by my means, neither
charger, nor mule, nor pack-horse, nor beast of burden."

Then Roland turned to the King and said, "Give me twenty thousand
only, so they be men of valor, and I will keep the passes in all
safety. So long as I shall live, you need fear no man."

Then Roland mounted his horse. With him were Oliver, his comrade, and
Otho and Berenger, and Gerard of Roussillon, an aged warrior, and
others, men of renown. And Turpin the Archbishop cried, "By my head, I
will go also." So they chose twenty thousand warriors with whom to
keep the passes.

Meanwhile King Charles had entered the valley of Roncesvalles. High
were the mountains on either side of the way, and the valleys were
gloomy and dark. But when the army had passed through the valley,
they saw the fair land of Gascony, and as they saw it they thought of
their homes and their wives and daughters. There was not one of them
but wept for very tenderness of heart. But of all that company there
was none sadder than the King himself, when he thought how he had left
his nephew Count Roland behind him in the passes of Spain.

And now the Saracen King Marsilas began to gather his army. He laid a
strict command on all his nobles and chiefs that they should bring
with them to Saragossa as many men as they could gather together. And
when they were come to the city, it being the third day from the
issuing of the King's command, they saluted the great image of
Mahomet, the false prophet, that stood on the topmost tower. This done
they went forth from the city gates. They made all haste, marching
across the mountains and valleys of Spain till they came in sight of
the standard of France, where Roland and Oliver and the Twelve Peers
were ranged in battle array.

The Saracen champions donned their coats of mail, of double substance
most of them, and they set upon their heads helmets of Saragossa of
well-tempered metal, and they girded themselves with swords of Vienna.
Fair were their shields to view; their lances were from Valentia;
their standards were of white, blue, and red. Their mules they left
with the servants, and, mounting their chargers, so moved forwards.
Fair was the day and bright the sun, as their armor flashed in the
light, and the drums were beaten so loudly that the Frenchmen heard
the sound.

Said Oliver to Roland, "Comrade, methinks we shall soon do battle with
the Saracens."

"God grant it," answered Roland. "'Tis our duty to hold the place for
the King, and we will do it, come what may. As for me, I will not set
an ill example."

Oliver climbed to the top of a hill, and saw from thence the whole
army of the heathen. He cried to Roland his companion, "I see the
flashing of arms. We men of France shall have no small trouble
therefrom. This is the doing of Ganelon the traitor."

"Be silent," answered Roland, "till you shall know; say no more about
him."

Oliver looked again from the hilltop, and saw how the Saracens came
on. So many there were that he could not count their battalions. He
descended to the plain with all speed, and came to the array of the
French, and said, "I have seen more heathen than man ever yet saw
together upon the earth. There are a hundred thousand at the least. We
shall have such a battle with them as has never before been fought. My
brethren of France, quit you like men, be strong; stand firm that you
be not conquered." And all the army shouted with one voice, "Cursed be
he that shall fly."

Then Oliver turned to Roland, and said, "Sound your horn; my friend,
Charles will hear it, and will return."

"I were a fool," answered Roland, "so to do. Not so; but I will deal
these heathen some mighty blows with Durendal, my sword. They have
been ill-advised to venture into these passes. I swear that they are
condemned to death, one and all."

After a while, Oliver said again, "Friend Roland, sound your horn of
ivory. Then will the King return, and bring his army with him, to our
help." But Roland answered again, "I will not do dishonor to my
kinsmen, or to the fair land of France. I have my sword; that shall
suffice for me. These evil-minded heathen are gathered together
against us to their own hurt. Surely not one of them shall escape from
death."

"As for me," said Oliver, "I see not where the dishonor would be. I
saw the valleys and the mountains covered with the great multitude of
Saracens. Theirs is, in truth, a mighty array, and we are but few."

"So much the better," answered Roland. "It makes my courage grow. 'Tis
better to die than to be disgraced. And remember, the harder our blows
the more the King will love us."

Roland was brave, but Oliver was wise. "Consider," he said, "comrade.
These enemies are over-near to us, and the King over-far. Were he
here, we should not be in danger; but there are some here today who
will never fight in another battle."

Then Turpin the Archbishop struck spurs into his horse, and rode to a
hilltop. Then he turned to the men of France, and spake: "Lords of
France, King Charles has left us here; our King he is, and it is our
duty to die for him. Today our Christian Faith is in peril: do ye
fight for it. Fight ye must; be sure of that, for there under your
eyes are the Saracens. Confess, therefore, your sins, and pray to God
that He have mercy upon you. And now for your soul's health I will
give you all absolution. If you die, you will be God's martyrs, every
one of you, and your places are ready for you in His Paradise."

Thereupon the men of France dismounted, and knelt upon the ground, and
the Archbishop blessed them in God's name. "But look," said he, "I set
you a penance--smite these pagans." Then the men of France rose to
their feet. They had received absolution, and were set free from all
their sins, and the Archbishop had blessed them in the name of God.
After this they mounted their swift steeds, and clad themselves in
armor, and made themselves ready for the battle.

Said Roland to Oliver, "Brother, you know that it is Ganelon who has
betrayed us. Good store he has had of gold and silver as a reward;
'tis the King Marsilas that has made merchandise of us, but verily it
is with our swords that he shall be paid." So saying, he rode on to
the pass, mounted on his good steed Veillantif. His spear he held with
the point to the sky; a white flag it bore with fringes of gold which
fell down to his hands. A stalwart man was he, and his countenance was
fair and smiling. Behind him followed Oliver, his friend; and the men
of France pointed to him, saying, "See our champion!" Pride was in his
eye when he looked towards the Saracens; but to the men of France his
regard was all sweetness and humility. Full courteously he spake to
them:

"Ride not so fast, my lords," he said; "verily these heathen are come
hither, seeking martyrdom. 'Tis a fair spoil that we shall gather from
them today. Never has King of France gained any so rich." And as he
spake, the two hosts came together.

Said Oliver, "You did not deem it fit, my lord, to sound your horn.
Therefore you lack the help which the King would have sent. Not his
the blame, for he knows nothing of what has chanced. But do you, lords
of France, charge as fiercely as you may, and yield not one whit to
the enemy. Think upon these two things only--how to deal a straight
blow and to take it. And let us not forget King Charles' cry of
battle."

Then all the men of France with one voice cried out, "Mountjoy!" He
that heard them so cry had never doubted that they were men of valor.
Proud was their array as they rode on to battle, spurring their horses
that they might speed the more. And the Saracens, on their part, came
forward with a good heart. Thus did the Frenchmen and the heathen meet
in the shock of battle.

Full many of the heathen warriors fell that day. Not one of the Twelve
Peers of France but slew his man. But of all none bore himself so
valiantly as Roland. Many a blow did he deal to the enemy with his
mighty spear, and when the spear was shivered in his hand, fifteen
warriors having fallen before it, then he seized his good sword
Durendal, and smote man after man to the ground. Red was he with the
blood of his enemies, red was his hauberk, red his arms, red his
shoulders, aye, and the neck of his horse. Not one of the Twelve
lingered in the rear, or was slow to strike, but Count Roland was the
bravest of the brave. "Well done, sons of France!" cried Turpin the
Archbishop, when he saw them lay on in such sort.

Next to Roland for valor and hardihood came Oliver, his companion.
Many a heathen warrior did he slay, till at last his spear was
shivered in his hand. "What are you doing, comrade?" cried Roland,
when he was aware of the mishap. "A man wants no staff in such a
battle as this. 'Tis the steel and nothing else that he must have.
Where is your sword Hautclere, with its hilt of gold and its pommel of
crystal?"

"On my word," said Oliver, "I have not had time to draw it; I was so
busy with striking." But as he spake he drew the good sword from its
scabbard, and smote a heathen knight, Justin of the Iron Valley. A
mighty blow it was, cleaving the man in twain down to his saddle--aye,
and the saddle itself with its adorning of gold and jewels, and the
very backbone also of the steed whereon he rode, so that horse and man
fell dead together on the plains. "Well done!" cried Roland; "you are
a true brother of mine. 'Tis such strokes as this that make the King
love us."

Nevertheless, for all the valor of Roland and his fellows the battle
went hard with the men of France. Many lances were shivered, many
flags torn, and many gallant youths cut off in their prime. Never more
would they see mother and wife. It was an ill deed that the traitor
Ganelon wrought when he sold his fellows to King Marsilas!

And now there befell a new trouble. King Almaris, with a great host
of heathen, coming by an unknown way, fell upon the rear of the host
where there was another pass. Fiercely did the noble Walter that kept
the same charge the newcomers, but they overpowered him and his
followers. He was wounded with four several lances, and four times did
he swoon, so that at the last he was constrained to leave the field of
battle, that he might call the Count Roland to his aid. But small was
the aid which Roland could give him or any one. Valiantly he held up
the battle, and with him Oliver, and Turpin the Archbishop, and others
also; but the lines of the men of France were broken, and their armor
thrust through and their spears shivered, and their flags trodden in
the dust. For all this they made such slaughter among the heathen that
King Almaris, who led the armies of the enemy, scarcely could win back
his way to his own people, wounded in four places and sorely spent. A
right good warrior was he; had he but been a Christian, but few had
matched him in battle.

Count Roland saw how grievously his people had suffered and spake thus
to Oliver his comrade: "Dear comrade, you see how many brave men lie
dead upon the ground. Well may we mourn for fair France, widowed as
she is of so many valiant champions. But why is our King not here? O
Oliver, my brother, what shall we do to send him tidings of our
state?" "I know not," answered Oliver. "Only this I know--that death
is to be chosen rather than dishonor."

After a while Roland said again, "I shall blow my horn; King Charles
will hear it, where he has encamped beyond the passes, and he and his
host will come back."

"That would be ill done," answered Oliver, "and shame both you and
your race. When I gave you this counsel you would have none of it. Now
I like it not. 'Tis not for a brave man to sound the horn and cry for
help now that we are in such case."

"The battle is too hard for us," said Roland again, "and I shall
sound my horn, that the King may hear."

And Oliver answered again, "When I gave you this counsel, you scorned
it. Now I myself like it not. 'Tis true that had the King been here,
we had not suffered this loss. But the blame is not his. 'Tis your
folly, Count Roland, that has done to death all these men of France.
But for that we should have conquered in this battle, and have taken
and slain King Marsilas. But now we can do nothing for France and the
King. We can but die. Woe is me for our country, aye, and for our
friendship, which will come to a grievous end this day."

The Archbishop perceived that the two friends were at variance, and
spurred his horse till he came where they stood. "Listen to me," he
said, "Sir Roland and Sir Oliver. I implore you not to fall out with
each other in this fashion. We, sons of France, that are in this
place, are of a truth condemned to death, neither will the sounding of
your horn save us, for the King is far away, and cannot come in time.
Nevertheless, I hold it to be well that you should sound it. When the
King and his army shall come, they will find us dead--that I know full
well. But they will avenge us, so that our enemies shall not go away
rejoicing. And they will also recover our bodies, and will carry them
away for burial in holy places, so that the dogs and wolves shall not
devour them."

"You say well," cried Roland, and he put his horn to his lips, and
gave so mighty a blast upon it, that the sound was heard thirty
leagues away. King Charles and his men heard it, and the King said,
"Our countrymen are fighting with the enemy." But Ganelon answered,
"Sire, had any but you so spoken, I had said that he spoke falsely."

Then Roland blew his horn a second time; with great pain and anguish
of body he blew it, and the red blood gushed from his lips; but the
sound was heard yet farther than at first. Again the King heard it,
and all his nobles, and all his men. "That," said he, "is Roland's
horn; he never had sounded it were he not in battle with the enemy."
But Ganelon answered again: "Believe me, Sire, there is no battle. You
are an old man, and you have the fancies of a child. You know what a
mighty man of valor is this Roland. Think you that any one would dare
to attack him? No one, of a truth. Ride on, Sire; why halt you here?
The fair land of France is yet far away."

Roland blew his horn a third time, and when the King heard it he said,
"He that blew that horn drew a deep breath." And Duke Naymes cried
out, "Roland is in trouble; on my conscience he is fighting with the
enemy. Some one has betrayed him; 'tis he, I doubt not, that would
deceive you now. To arms, Sire! utter your war-cry, and help your own
house and your country. You have heard the cry of the noble Roland."

Then King Charles bade all the trumpets sound, and forthwith all the
men of France armed themselves, with helmets, and hauberks, and swords
with pommels of gold. Mighty were their shields, and their lances
strong, and the flags that they carried were white and red and blue.
And when they made an end of their arming they rode back with all
haste. There was not one of them but said to his comrade, "If we find
Roland yet alive, what mighty strokes will we strike for him!"

But Ganelon the King handed over to the knaves of his kitchen. "Take
this traitor," said he, "who has sold his country." Ill did Ganelon
fare among them. They pulled out his hair and his beard and smote him
with their staves; then they put a great chain, such as that with
which a bear is bound, about his neck, and made him fast to a
pack-horse.

This done, the King and his army hastened with all speed to the help
of Roland. In the van and the rear sounded the trumpets as though they
would answer Roland's horn. Full of wrath was King Charles as he rode;
full of wrath were all the men of France. There was not one among them
but wept and sobbed; there was not one but prayed, "Now, may God keep
Roland alive till we come to the battle-field, so that we may strike a
blow for him." Alas! it was all in vain; they could not come in time
for all their speed.

Count Roland looked round on the mountain-sides and on the plains.
Alas! how many noble sons of France he saw lying dead upon them! "Dear
friends," he said, weeping as he spoke, "may God have mercy on you and
receive you into His Paradise! More loyal followers have I never seen.
How is the fair land of France widowed of her bravest, and I can give
you no help. Oliver, dear comrade, we must not part. If the enemy slay
me not here, surely I shall be slain by sorrow. Come then, let us
smite these heathen."

Thus did Roland again charge the enemy, his good sword Durendal in his
hand; as the stag flies before the hounds, so did the heathen fly
before Roland. "By my faith," cried the Archbishop when he saw him,
"that is a right good knight! Such courage, and such a steed, and such
arms I love well to see. If a man be not brave and a stout fighter, he
had better by far be a monk in some cloister where he may pray all day
long for our sins."

Now the heathen, when they saw how few the Frenchmen were, took fresh
courage. And the Caliph, spurring his horse, rode against Oliver and
smote him in the middle of his back, making his spear pass right
through him. "That is a shrewd blow," he cried; "I have avenged my
friends and countrymen upon you."

Then Oliver knew he was stricken to death, but he would not fall
unavenged. With his great sword Hautclere he smote the Caliph on his
head and cleft it to the teeth. "Curse on you, pagan. Neither your
wife nor any woman in the land of your birth shall boast that you have
taken a penny's worth from King Charles!" But to Roland he cried,
"Come, comrade, help me; well I know that we two shall part in great
sorrow this day."

Roland came with all speed, and saw his friend, how he lay all pale
and fainting on the ground and how the blood gushed in great streams
from his wound. "I know not what to do," he cried. "This is an ill
chance that has befallen you. Truly France is bereaved of her bravest
son." So saying he went near to swoon in the saddle as he sat. Then
there befell a strange thing. Oliver had lost so much of his blood
that he could not any more see clearly or know who it was that was
near him. So he raised up his arm and smote with all his strength that
yet remained to him on the helmet of Roland his friend. The helmet he
cleft in twain to the visor; but by good fortune it wounded not the
head.

Roland looked at him and said in a gentle voice, "Did you this of set
purpose? I am Roland your friend, and have not harmed you."

"Ah!" said Oliver, "I hear you speak, but I cannot see you. Pardon me
that I struck you; it was not done of set purpose."

"It harmed me not," answered Roland; "with all my heart and before God
I forgive you." And this was the way these two friends parted at the
last.

And now Oliver felt the pains of death come over him. He could no
longer see nor hear. Therefore he turned his thoughts to making his
peace with God, and clasping his hands lifted them to heaven and made
his confession. "O Lord," he said, "take me into Paradise. And do Thou
bless King Charles and the sweet land of France." And when he had
said thus he died. And Roland looked at him as he lay. There was not
upon earth a more sorrowful man than he. "Dear comrade," he said,
"this is indeed an evil day. Many a year have we two been together.
Never have I done wrong to you; never have you done wrong to me. How
shall I bear to live without you?" And he swooned where he sat on his
horse. But the stirrup held him up that he did not fall to the ground.

When Roland came to himself he looked about him and saw how great was
the calamity that had befallen his army. For now there were left alive
to him two only, Turpin the Archbishop and Walter of Hum. Walter had
but that moment come down from the hills where he had been fighting so
fiercely with the heathen that all his men were dead; now he cried to
Roland for help. "Noble Count, where are you? I am Walter of Hum, and
am not unworthy to be your friend. Help me therefore. For see how my
spear is broken and my shield cleft in twain. My hauberk is in pieces,
and my body sorely wounded. I am about to die; but I have sold my life
at a great price."

When Roland heard him cry he set spurs to his horse and galloped to
him. "Walter," said he, "you are a brave warrior and a trustworthy.
Tell me now where are the thousand valiant men whom you took from my
army. They were right good soldiers, and I am in sore need of them."

"They are dead," answered Walter; "you will see them no more. A sore
battle we had with the Saracens yonder on the hills; they had the men
of Canaan there and the men of Armenia and the Giants; there were no
better men in their army than these. We dealt with them so that they
will not boast themselves of this day's work. But it cost us dear; all
the men of France lie dead on the plain, and I am wounded to the
death. And now, Roland, blame me not that I fled; for you are my lord,
and all my trust is in you."

"I blame you not," said Roland, "only as long as you live help me
against the heathen." And as he spake he took his cloak and rent it
into strips and bound up Walter's wounds therewith. This done he and
Walter and the Archbishop set fiercely on the enemy. Five-and-twenty
did Roland slay, and Walter slew six, and the Archbishop five. Three
valiant men of war they were; fast and firm they stood one by the
other; hundreds there were of the heathen, but they dared not come
near to these three valiant champions of France. They stood far off,
and cast at the three spears and darts and javelins and weapons of
every kind. Walter of Hum was slain forthwith; and the Archbishop's
armor was broken, and he wounded, and his horse slain under him.
Nevertheless he lifted himself from the ground, still keeping a good
heart in his breast. "They have not overcome me yet," said he; "as
long as a good soldier lives, he does not yield."

Roland took his horn once more and sounded it, for he would know
whether King Charles were coming. Ah me! it was a feeble blast that he
blew. But the King heard it, and he halted and listened. "My lords!"
said he, "things go ill for us, I doubt not. Today we shall lose, I
fear me much, my brave nephew Roland. I know by the sound of his horn
that he has but a short time to live. Put your horses to their full
speed, if you would come in time to help him, and let a blast be
sounded by every trumpet that there is in the army." So all the
trumpets in the host sounded a blast; all the valleys and hills
re-echoed with the sound; sore discouraged were the heathen when they
heard it.

"King Charles has come again," they cried; "we are all as dead men.
When he comes he shall not find Roland alive." Then four hundred of
them, the strongest and most valiant knights that were in the army of
the heathen, gathered themselves into one company, and made a yet
fiercer assault on Roland.

Roland saw them coming, and waited for them without fear. So long as
he lived he would not yield himself to the enemy or give place to
them. "Better death than flight," said he, as he mounted his good
steed Veillantif, and rode towards the enemy. And by his side went
Turpin the Archbishop on foot. Then said Roland to Turpin, "I am on
horseback and you are on foot. But let us keep together; never will I
leave you; we two will stand against these heathen dogs. They have
not, I warrant, among them such a sword as Durendal."

"Good," answered the Archbishop. "Shame to the man who does not smite
his hardest. And though this be our last battle, I know well that King
Charles will take ample vengeance for us."

When the heathen saw these two stand together they fell back in fear
and hurled at them spears and darts and javelins without number.
Roland's shield they broke and his hauberk; but him they hurt not;
nevertheless they did him a grievous injury, for they killed his good
steed Veillantif. Thirty wounds did Veillantif receive, and he fell
dead under his master. At last the Archbishop was stricken and Roland
stood alone, for the heathen had fled from his presence.

When Roland saw that the Archbishop was dead, his heart was sorely
troubled in him. Never did he feel a greater sorrow for comrade slain,
save Oliver only. "Charles of France," he said, "come as quickly as
you may! Many a gallant knight have you lost in Roncesvalles. But King
Marsilas, on his part, has lost his army. For one that has fallen on
this side there have fallen full forty on that." So saying he turned
to the Archbishop; he crossed the dead man's hands upon his breast and
said, "I commit thee to the Father's mercy. Never has man served God
with a better will, never since the beginning of the world has there
lived a sturdier champion of the faith. May God be good to you and
give you all good things!"

Now Roland felt that his own death was near at hand. In one hand he
took his horn, and in the other his good sword Durendal, and made his
way the distance of a furlong or so till he came to a plain, and in
the midst of the plain a little hill. On the top of the hill in the
shade of two fair trees were four marble steps. There Roland fell in a
swoon upon the grass. There a certain Saracen spied him. The fellow
had feigned death, and had laid himself down among the slain, having
covered his body and his face with blood. When he saw Roland, he
raised himself from where he was lying among the slain and ran to the
place, and, being full of pride and fury, seized the Count in his
arms, crying aloud, "He is conquered, he is conquered, he is
conquered, the famous nephew of King Charles! See, here is his sword;
'tis a noble spoil that I shall carry back with me to Arabia."
Thereupon he took the sword in one hand, with the other he laid hold
of Roland's beard.

But as the man laid hold, Roland came to himself, and knew that some
one was taking his sword from him. He opened his eyes but not a word
did he speak save this only, "Fellow, you are none of ours," and he
smote him a mighty blow upon his helmet. The steel he brake through
and the head beneath, and laid the man dead at his feet. "Coward," he
said, "what made you so bold that you dared lay hands on Roland?
Whosoever knows him will think you a fool for your deed."

[Illustration: ROLAND'S OWN DEATH WAS VERY NEAR]

And now Roland knew that death was near at hand. He raised himself and
gathered all his strength together--ah me! how pale his face was!--and
took in his hand his good sword Durendal. Before him was a great rock
and on this in his rage and pain he smote ten mighty blows. Loud
rang the steel upon the stone; but it neither brake nor splintered.
"Help me," he cried, "O Mary, our Lady! O my good sword, my Durendal,
what an evil lot is mine! In the day when I must part with you, my
power over you is lost. Many a battle I have won with your help; and
many a kingdom have I conquered, that my lord Charles possesses this
day. Never has any one possessed you that would fly before another. So
long as I live, you shall not be taken from me, so long have you been
in the hands of a loyal knight."

Then he smote a second time with the sword, this time upon the marble
steps. Loud rang the steel, but neither brake nor splintered. Then
Roland began to bemoan himself. "O my good Durendal," he said, "how
bright and clear thou art, shining as shines the sun! Well I mind me
of the day when a voice that seemed to come from heaven bade King
Charles give thee to a valiant captain; and forthwith the good King
girded it on my side. Many a land have I conquered with thee for him,
and now how great is my grief! Can I die and leave thee to be handled
by some heathen?" And the third time he smote a rock with it. Loud
rang the steel, but it brake not, bounding back as though it would
rise to the sky. And when Count Roland saw that he could not break the
sword, he spake again but with more content in his heart. "O
Durendal," he said, "a fair sword art thou, and holy as fair. There
are holy relics in thy hilt, relics of St. Peter and St. Denis and St.
Basil. These heathen shall never possess thee; nor shalt thou be held
but by a Christian hand."

And now Roland knew that death was very near to him. He laid himself
down with his head upon the grass, putting under him his horn and his
sword, with his face turned towards the heathen foe. Ask you why he
did so? To show, forsooth, to Charlemagne and the men of France that
he died in the midst of victory. This done, he made a loud confession
of his sins, stretching his hand to heaven, "Forgive me, Lord," he
cried, "my sins, little and great, all that I have committed since the
day of my birth to this hour in which I am stricken to death." So he
prayed; and, as he lay, he thought of many things, of the countries
which he had conquered, and of his dear fatherland France, and of his
kinsfolk, and of the good King Charles. Nor, as he thought, could he
keep himself from sighs and tears; yet one thing he remembered beyond
all others--to pray for forgiveness of his sins. "O Lord," he said,
"who art the God of truth, and didst save Daniel Thy prophet from the
lions, do Thou save my soul and defend it against all perils!" So
speaking he raised his right hand, with the gauntlet yet upon it, to
the sky, and his head fell back upon his arm and the angels carried
him to heaven. So died the great Count Roland.


THE CID

[Illustration: THE YOUTHFUL CID AVENGING THE DEATH OF HIS FATHER]


Unlike some of the other heroes told about in this book, the Cid was a
real man, whose name was Rodrigo Diaz, or Ruydiez. He was born in
Burgos in the eleventh century and won the name of "Cid," which means
"Conqueror," by defeating five Moorish kings. This happened after
Spain had been in the hands of the Arabs for more than three hundred
years, so it is small wonder that the Spaniards looked upon their hero
as a very remarkable man.

When Rodrigo was still a youth, his father, Diego Laynez, was grossly
insulted by Don Gomez. The custom in those days was to avenge such an
insult by slaying the offender; but Diego was too old and feeble to
bear arms. When he finally told his son of the wrong, Rodrigo sought
out Don Gomez and challenged him to fight. So bravely and skilfully
did Rodrigo manage his weapons that he slew his father's enemy. Then
he cut off the head and carried it to Diego.

Soon after this Diego bade his son do homage at King Ferdinand's
court. Rodrigo appeared before the king, but his bearing was so
defiant that Ferdinand was frightened, and banished him.

Rodrigo departed with three hundred followers, encountered some Moors,
who were invading Castile, defeated them and took five of their kings
captive, releasing them only after they had promised to pay tribute
and to refrain from further warfare. It was these kings who first
called him "Cid."

In return for his brave service Rodrigo was restored to favor and
given place among the king's courtiers.

One day Dona Ximena, daughter of Don Gomez, appeared and demanded
justice from the king. Recognizing Rodrigo among the courtiers, she
called to him to slay her also. But both demand and cry were unheeded,
for the king had been too well served by Rodrigo to listen to any
accusation against him.

Three times the maiden returned with the same request, and each time
she came she heard greater praise of the young hero. At last she
decided to alter her demand. A fourth time she returned, consenting to
forego all thoughts of vengeance if the king would order the young
hero to marry her. The Cid was very willing, for he had learned to
love the girl, admiring her beauty and spirit.

The marriage was celebrated with great pomp and the king gave Rodrigo
four cities as a marriage portion. Rodrigo, vowing that he would not
be worthy of his wife until he had won five battles, after a pious
pilgrimage to the shrine of the patron saint, hastened off to
Calahorra, a frontier town claimed by two kings--the kings of Castile
and Oregon.

It had been decided that the dispute over the town should be settled
by combat. Rodrigo became the champion of Ferdinand of Castile. The
other champion, Martin Gonzalez, began, as soon as the combat opened,
to taunt the Cid.

"Never again will you mount your favorite steed Babieça," he said,
"never will you return to your castle; never will you see your beloved
Ximena again."

But the Cid was undaunted, and had soon laid his enemy low. Great
praise then was given to the Cid--so great that the knights of Castile
were jealous and plotted to kill him. But the Moorish kings whom he
had captured and released warned him in time to avert the danger.

Then the Cid aided Ferdinand in defeating the hostile Moors in
Estremadura, after a siege of Coimbra lasting seven months. Several
other victories over his country's enemies were added to this, and
then Rodrigo returned to his beloved wife.

But not for long was he permitted to remain in the quiet of home.
Henry III, Emperor of Germany, complained to the Pope that King
Ferdinand had refused to acknowledge his superiority. The Pope sent a
message to Ferdinand, demanding homage and tribute. The demand angered
both Ferdinand and the Cid.

"Never yet have we done homage," cried the Cid, "and shall we now bow
to a stranger?"

A proud refusal was then sent to the Pope, and he, knowing of no
better way to settle the dispute, bade Henry send a champion to meet
Rodrigo. The emperor's champion was, of course, defeated, and all of
Ferdinand's enemies were so awed by the outcome of the fight that none
ever again demanded homage or tribute. Rodrigo was, indeed, a very
useful subject. When Ferdinand died, he was succeeded by his son, Don
Sancho. The latter, planning a visit to Rome, selected the Cid to
accompany him. Arriving, they found that in the preparations that had
been made for their reception a lower seat had been prepared for Don
Sancho than for the King of France. The Cid would not suffer such a
slight, and became so violent that the Pope excommunicated him.
Nevertheless, the seats were made of equal height, and the Cid, who
was a good Catholic, humbled himself before the Pope and was forgiven.

It was an age of great wars, and the Cid aided his king in many a
brave fight. At last, in the siege of Zamora, the king was
treacherously murdered, and, as he had no sons, Don Alfonso, his
brother, succeeded. When he arrived at Zamora the Cid refused to
acknowledge Alfonso until he should swear that he had no part in the
murder. The king, angered by the Cid's attitude, plotted revenge.
Opportunity came during a war with the Moors, and the Cid was banished
upon a slight pretext.

"I obey, O king," replied the Cid, when he heard the decree. "I am
more ready to serve you than you are to reward me. I pray that you may
never more in battle need the right arm and sword that so often served
your father."

Then the Cid rode away, through a crowd of weeping people, and camped
outside of the city until he could make definite plans. The people
longed to bring him food or offer him shelter, but they feared the
displeasure of the king. One old man, however, crept outside of the
city with food, declaring that he cared "not a fig" for Alfonso's
commands.

The Cid needed money, and to get it he pledged two locked coffers to
some Jews. The Jews in those days were much despised by the
Christians, though usually very wealthy. The men, thinking that the
boxes contained vast treasures, when in reality they were filled with
sand, advanced the Cid 600 marks of gold. Then the hero bade farewell
to his wife and children and rode away, vowing that he would return,
covered with glory and carrying with him rich spoils.

Within two weeks' time the Cid and his little band of followers had
captured two Moorish strongholds and carried off much spoil. The Cid
then prepared a truly royal present and sent it to the king. Alfonso,
upon receiving the gift, pardoned the Cid, and published an edict
permitting all who wished to join in the fight against the Moors to
join Rodrigo and his band.

Toledo, thanks to the valor of the Cid, soon fell into the hands of
Alfonso, but a misunderstanding arose and the king insulted the Cid.
The latter, in great rage, left the army and made a sudden raid on
Castile. Then the Moors, knowing that the Cid had departed, took
courage and captured Valencia. But the Cid, hearing of the disaster,
promptly returned, recaptured the city, and sent a message to Alfonso
asking for his wife and daughters. At the same time he sent more than
the promised sum of money to the Jews, who up to this time had not
learned that the coffers were filled with sand. To the messenger he
said:

"Tell them, that although they can find nothing in the coffers but
sand, they will find that the pure gold of my truth lies beneath the
sand."

As the Cid was now master of Valencia, and of vast wealth, his
daughters were sought in marriage by many suitors, and the marriage of
both girls was celebrated with great splendor. But the Counts of
Carrion, their husbands, were not brave men like the Cid, and after
lingering at Valencia in idleness for two years, their weakness was
clearly shown.

One evening while the Cid was sleeping, a lion broke loose from his
private menagerie and entered the room where he lay. The two princes,
who were playing in the room, fled, one in his haste falling into an
empty vat, and the other taking refuge behind the Cid's couch. The
roaring of the lion wakened the Cid, and jumping up he seized his
sword, caught the lion by the mane, led it back to its cage, and
calmly returned to his place.

The cowardly conduct of the Counts of Carrion roused the anger of the
Cid's followers, and in the siege of Valencia that followed their
conduct brought only contempt. When the Moors were finally driven away
the counts asked permission to return home with their brides and
gifts.

So the Cid parted from his daughters, weeping at the loss. The
procession started. The first morning the counts sent their escorts
ahead, and, left alone with their wives, stripped them of their
garments, beat them and kicked them, and left them for dead. But Felez
Muñoz, a loyal follower of the Cid's, riding back, found the two
wives, bound up their wounds and obtained shelter for them in the
house of a poor man whose wife and daughters promised to nurse them.
Then he rode on to tell the Cid. The Cid swore that he would be
avenged, and as Alfonso was responsible for the marriage, he applied
to him for redress.

The king, who had long since forgiven the Cid and learned to value his
services, was very angry. A battle was finally arranged. The Counts of
Carrion and their uncle were defeated and banished, and the Cid
returned in triumph to Valencia. Here his daughters' second marriage
took place.

The Moors returned five years later, and the Cid was prepared to meet
them when he received a vision of St. Peter, predicting that he would
die within thirty days, but that even though dead he would triumph
over his enemy. He accordingly made preparations for his death, and
after appointing a successor, he gave instructions that none should
weep over his death, and that his body when embalmed should be set
upon his horse, Babieça, and that, with his sword Tizona in his hand,
he should be led on a certain day against the enemy.

The hero died and his successor together with his wife Ximena strove
to carry out his instructions. A battle was planned, and the Cid,
strapped upon his war horse, rode in the van. The Moors, filled with
terror, fled before him.

After the victory the body was placed in the Church of San Pedro de
Cardeña, where for ten years it remained seated, in plain view of all.


Transcriber's Notes:

Minor printer errors (omitted or incorrect punctuation) have been
amended without note. Minor inconsistencies in hyphenation have been
resolved where possible, or retained where there was no way to
determine which was correct, again without note. Other errors have
been amended, and are listed below.

Illustrations have been shifted slightly so that they do not fall in
the middle of paragraphs. The frontispiece illustration has been moved
to follow the title page, and the cover illustration has had the
caption from the List of Illustrations added. Minor punctuation
variations between the List of Illustrations and illustration captions
have been made consistent without note.

Some of the earlier tales use Greek mythological names, while others
use the Roman equivalent (for example, Poseidon or Neptune, Ares or
Mars). Some Greek names use a Latin spelling (for example, Thermiscira
rather than Thermiscyra), or have differing spelling in different
tales (for example Hera and Heré). These have been left unchanged,
except where there was an obvious error.

OE/oe ligatures have not been retained in this version.


List of Amendments:

Page 11--Delhi amended to Delphi--"So he traveled to Delphi ..."

Page 35--Petraus amended to Petraeus--"... pierced a mighty Centaur,
Petraeus, ..."

Page 102--stomaches amended to stomachs--"... furnaces in their
stomachs had likewise been extinguished, ..."

Page 134--Agammenon amended to Agamemnon--"Then said King Agamemnon,
"But how ...""

Page 219--Brunhild amended to Kriemhild--"Kriemhild promised to obey
his instructions, ..."