Taking a deep breath, Ralph advanced with cat-like tread and flashing
eyes upon his adversary. Knowing from painful experience what to expect,
the latter circled cautiously away, covering his face with his hands.
But Ralph, realising that time was short, determined not to be baffled.
Combining the agility of the chamois with the ponderous strength of the
hippopotamus, he crouched low and sprang like a tiger through the air
upon the unhappy Mauler, striking him full on the solar plexus. White to
the lips, the Mauler fell squirming to the floor, while Ralph
nonchalantly adjusted a lock of hair which had floated loose.

"_One--two--three ..._" the voice of the referee was like the voice of
inexorable Fate ... "_four--five--six ..._" Lady Margaret gripped her
brother's arm till his hair stood on end ... "_seven--eight ..._" The
Countess of Snecks fainted with a loud shriek ... "_nine--Out_"!

The great fight was won. The House of Tamerton was saved.

Clad in his claret-coloured dressing-gown, the new champion pressed his
_fiancée_ against the yellow facings and stroked her fair hair fondly
with his boxing-gloves.

"My little wife!" he whispered.

And the vast area of Corinthia rang with emotional cheers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: _Sentry (suddenly appearing)._ "HALT! WHO GOES THERE?"

_Brown._ "ER--SEASON!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks._)

Far too rarely does the conscientious reviewer enjoy such a chance as
has come to me now, a chance to let himself go in the matter of praise
without stint or reservation. As a reward doubtless for some of my many
unrecorded good deeds, there has come into my hands a slender volume
called _Naval Occasions_ (BLACKWOOD), which seems to me to be the most
entirely satisfactory and, indeed, fascinating thing of its kind that
ever I read. The writer chooses for his own sufficient reasons to
disguise himself as "BARTIMEUS," and under that name I have to ask him
to accept my very sincere gratitude. The little book contains
twenty-five sketches, mostly quite short, relating to (I quote its text,
taken from the Articles of War) "the Navy, whereon, under the good
Providence of God, the wealth, safety, and strength of the Kingdom
chiefly depend." Never surely did a book appear so aptly. At a moment
like this, when the dullest collection of naval facts can stir the
pulse, such pages as these, full of the actual life and work of the men
who are safeguarding us all, deserve a public as vast as the Empire
itself. The appeal of them is amazing, for their art is of so concealed
a quality that the writing seems simplicity itself. To say that they
bring the atmosphere of salt winds and the tang of the sea, is nothing;
a skilful novel about Margate sands would deserve this praise; it is in
their humanity that the charm lies, the sense of courage and comradeship
and high endeavour that is in every one of them. You will laugh often as
you read; and sometimes, quite suddenly, you will find yourself with a
prickly feeling at the back of the eyes, because of the tears that are
in these things; but they are the proud kind, never the sloppily
sentimental. And at the end I am mistaken in you if you do not close the
book with the rare and moving sensation that you have found something of
which you can say, as I myself did, "This is absolutely It!"

       *       *       *       *       *

