_Flax_ is not uncommon in the greenhouses about Philadelphia, but
we have not heard of any experiments with it in the open
air.--_Encyclopaedia Americana._

_The Schoolmaster wanted in the East._--Mr. Madden, in his travels
in Turkey, Egypt, Nubia, and Palestine, says:--"In all my travels, I
could only meet one woman who could read and write, and that was in
Damietta; she was a Levantine Christian, and her peculiar talent was
looked upon as something superhuman."

La Fontaine had but one son, whom, at the age of 14, he placed in the
hands of Harlay, archbishop of Paris, who promised to provide for him.
After a long absence, La Fontaine met this youth at the house of a
friend, and being pleased with his conversation, was told that it was
his own son. "Ah," said he, "I am very glad of it."

_Universal Genius._--Rivernois thus describes the character of
Fontenelle: "When Fontenelle appeared on the field, all the prizes
were already distributed, all the palms already gathered: the prize of
universality alone remained, Fontenelle determined to attempt it, and
he was successful. He is not only a metaphysician with Malebranche, a
natural philosopher with Newton, a legislator with Peter the Great, a
statesman with D'Argenson; he is everything with everybody."

_Forest Schools._--There are a number of forest academies in Germany,
particularly in the small states of central Germany, in the Hartz,
Thuringia, &c. The principal branches taught in them are the
following:--forest botany, mineralogy, zoology, chemistry; by which
the learner is taught the natural history of forests, and the mutual
relations, &c. of the different kingdoms of nature. He is also
instructed in the care and chase of game, and in the surveying and
cultivation of forests, so as to understand the mode of raising all
kinds of wood, and supplying a new growth as fast as the old is taken
away. The pupil is too instructed in the administration of the forest
taxes and police, and all that relates to forests considered as a
branch of revenue.

_The Weather._--Meteorological journals are now given in most
magazines. The first statement of this kind was communicated by Dr.
Fothergill to the Gentleman's Magazine, and consisted of a monthly
account of the weather and diseases of London. The latter information
is now monopolized by the parish-clerks.

_Goethe._--The wife of a Silesian peasant, being obliged to go to
Saxony, and hearing that she had travelled (on foot) more than half
the distance to Goethe's residence, whose works she had read with the
liveliest interest, continued her journey to Weimar for the sake of
seeing him. Goethe declared that the true character of his works had
never been better understood than by this woman. He gave her his
portrait.

_Liverpool and Manchester Railway._--The Company has reported the
following result:

  Passengers entered in the Company's
  books during the half-year
  ending June 30, 1831                               £188,726

  Ditto, ditto, ending December
  31, 1831                                            256,321

               Increase                               £67,595

Being upwards of 33 per cent. increase of the first six months of the
year, and upwards of 135 per cent. increase on the travellers between
the two towns during the corresponding months, previously to opening
the railway.--_Gordon, on Steam Carriages._

