  "What I am going to bequeath
  When this frail part submits to death--
  But still I hope the spark divine,
  With its congenial stars shall shine,
  My good executors fulfill,
  And pay ye fairly my last will,
  With first and second codicil.
  And first I give to dear Lord Hinton,
  At Twyford school now, not at Winton,
  One hundred guineas and a ring,
  Or some such memorandum thing,
  And truly much I should have blunder'd,
  Had I not given another hundred
  To dear Earl Paulett's second son,
  Who dearly loves a little fun.
  Unto my nephew, Stephen Langdon,
  Of whom none says he e'er has wrong done,
  The civil laws he loves to hash,
  I give two hundred pounds in cash.
  One hundred pounds to my niece, Tudor,
  (With luring eyes one Clark did view her,)
  And to her children just among 'em,
  A hundred more--and not to wrong 'em,
  In equal shares I freely give it,
  Not doubting but they will receive it.
  To Betsy Mudford and Mary Lee,
  If they with Mrs. Mudford be,
  Because they round the year did dwell
  In Davies-street, and serv'd full well.
  The first ten pounds, the other twenty,
  And girls, I hope that will content ye.
  In seventeen hundred and sixty-nine,
  This with my hand I write and sign,
  The sixteenth day of fair October,
  In merry mood, but sound and sober.
  Past my threescore and fifteenth year,
  With spirits gay and conscience clear--
  Joyous and frolicksome, though old,
  And like this day, serene, but cold;
  To foes well wishing, and to friends most kind,
  In perfect charity with all mankind.
  For what remains I must desire,
  To use the words of Matthew Prior.
  Let this my will be well obey'd,
  And farewell all, I'm not afraid,
  For what avails a struggling sigh.
  When soon, or later, all must die?
    M. DARLEY."

Joshua West, who was known in his sphere "as the poet of the Six Clerks'
Office," made his will in rhyme; it is dated 13th December, 1804:

   "Perhaps I die not worth a groat,
    But should I die worth somewhat more,
  Then I give that, and my best coat,
    And all my manuscripts in store,
  To those who will the goodness have
    To cause my poor remains to rest,
  Within a decent shell and grave,
    This is the will of JOSHUA WEST."

In 1654, Henry Phillips published the "Purchasers' Pattern," in which he
gives advice to purchasers of estates of inheritance, in verse.

There is also a long article in verse, "On the Distribution of Intestates'
Effects: it begins--

   "By the laws of the land,
    It is settled and planned,
  That intestates' effects shall be spread,
    At the end of the year,
    When the debts are all clear,
  'Mong the kindred as here may be read."

Before the conclusion, the author says,

   "To the rest that succeed,
    We need not proceed,
  Enough has already been penn'd,
    And now it's high time,
    For our doggrel rhyme
  To come, lest it err, to an end."

This hint I shall apply to myself, lest my article become as dry and
uninteresting as my subject, and conclude with a declaration in which I
heartily concur:

   "Fee simple, and a simple fee,
    And all the fees in tail,
  Are nothing when compared to thee,
    Thou best of fees--female."

W.A.R.

       *       *       *       *       *


FINE ARTS

THE NINTH EXHIBITION OF THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH ARTISTS.

