--and a Sketch of the Irish Exchequer Court. A description of the
University, with a Vignette view, and ground plan, is perhaps, the most
interesting of the whole Number; but as dramatic critics sometimes say
of a new performer, we had rather see him in another character before we
form an estimate of his talents--so we wait for better things from the
London University Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE EDINBURGH JOURNAL OF NATURAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL SCIENCE, No. 1.


We expected much from the announcement of this work, and are not
disappointed in its first Number. It contains original
papers--scientific Reviews--geographical and natural History
Collections--and an abundance of scientific intelligence--somewhat on
the plan of Mr. Loudon's excellent Magazines. We have not at present
room for extract; but the Number before us will furnish several
interesting Notes for a portion of our next publication. _A Tour in the
Island of Jersey_ is one of the most amusing articles we have read for
some time, and we hope to abridge it for our columns.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE FOREIGN REVIEW.


The Eighth Number of this valuable Journal is just published, and its
table of contents is exceedingly attractive. Among these are
Phrenology--a characteristic article on Germany--the French and Italian
Drama--anecdotical papers on Napoleon and General Jackson and the United
States of America, and the History of the Cid. Ours will be a pleasing
task to "note" through this Number.

       *       *       *       *       *


UNPUBLISHED LINES ON DR. JOHNSON.

_By the late Dr. Wolcot. (Peter Pindar.)_


  I own I like not Johnson's turgid style,
  That gives an inch the importance of a mile;
  Casts of manure a wagon-load around
  To raise a simple daisy from the ground;
  Uplifts the club of Hercules--for what?--
  To crush a butterfly or brain a gnat;
  Creates a whirlwind from the earth to draw
  A goose's feather or exalt a straw;
  Sets wheels on wheels in motion--such a clatter!
  To force up one poor nipperkin of water;
  Bids ocean labour with tremendous roar,
  To heave a cockle-shell upon the shore.
  Alike in every theme his pompous art,
  Heaven's awful thunder, or a rumbling cart!

_New Monthly Magazine._

       *       *       *       *       *


GAS LIGHTS.


We have now been so long accustomed to this new light in the streets,
that, like all other terrene goods, we have almost become insensible to
its blessings. Yet let him who desires to know what he owes to chemistry
and "Old Murdoch," turn into any of the streets still lighted with oil,
and then come back to the nocturnal day of the Strand or Pall Mall. The
parish oil lamps were like light-houses on the ocean; guides, not
lights; the gas has become a perpetual full moon; and it may assuredly
be pronounced one of the most splendid and valuable applications of
chemistry. Why has not old Murdoch his statue? He deserves it even
better than his master; for the master was well paid in solid pudding.
In other days, that statue would have equalled the Colossus at Rhodes,
and the demi-philosopher would have breathed flame like the Chimera; in
the fabulous ages before that, he would have come down to us a god, or a
demi-god, the rival of Prometheus, Hercules, and Atlas. Why not cast him
in Achillean brass, the rival of the great hero of gunpowder and
Waterloo, and make him breathe gas like the Dragon of Wantley, to
illuminate the triumphal arch. Ingrata Patria!

The new light! yes, much has been heard of its power and influence; but
what has the new light of all the preachers done for the morality and
order of London, compared to what has been effected by this new light.
Old Murdoch alone, has suppressed more vice than the Suppression
Society; and has been a greater police officer into the bargain than old
Colquhoun and Sir Richard Birnie united. It is not only that men are
afraid to be wicked when light is looking at them, but they are ashamed
also; the reformation is applied to the right place. Where does vice
resort? Where it can hide; in darkness, says the preacher, because its
deeds are deeds of darkness. Seek it in Pudding-lane, and Dyot-street,
and the abysses of Westminster. Why was not this new light preached to
them long ago: twenty bushels of it would have been of more value than
as many chaldrons of sermons, and taking even the explosions of the
inspector into the bargain. But it is well, that this is at length to be
compulsory; since it is never too late. Thieves and rogues are like
moths in blankets: bring the sun to shine on them, and they can neither
live nor breed. Let the Duke of Wellington place a gas-lamp at every
door of these infernal abodes; and since they cannot be smoked out, make
their houses as much like glass, on the principle of the old Roman, as
we can compass. This is the remedy; at least till common sense will
condescend to the better expedient of pulling down and laying open all
these retreats of misery and vice; the disgrace and the nuisance of
London, and not less a standing inhumanity to the poor
themselves.--_Westminster Review._

       *       *       *       *       *


CAPE WINES.


The commerce at the Cape is wine; and the vine has already increased
tenfold, since the colony became British. But unfortunately more
attention has been hitherto paid to quantity than to quality, except on
the farms which yield Constantia. The latter have an eastern exposure,
and are sheltered from the south-west, the only injurious blast. The
soil being a deposit from the neighbouring mountains, is light, but
enriched by manure. The subsoil, which is even more important, is still
lighter, being mixed with sand and broken stone; on the contrary, in
Drachenstein, where the chief vineyards are at present, the subsoil
being clay, the wine receives an unpleasant flavour, the idea of which
is inseparably associated with the very name of Cape wine. It is
unnecessary to enter into the subject of its manufacture. If the subsoil
be bad, so will the wine be. The vine does not require a rich subsoil.
In Italy, flags are laid to prevent the roots from penetrating into
clay; and in England, rubbish is thrown in to make a subsoil that shall
not be so rich as to produce leaves, instead of fruit. It would be
advantageous were premiums offered for wine that had not been produced
from clay of subsoil, but had been reared in trellis, as requiring less
labour than the standard, and made on a pure and good system, instead of
being mixed with Cape brandy, or sulphuric acid, &c. Notwithstanding all
these disadvantages, Cape wine is generally sold in England under the
names, and at the prices, of Madeira, Sherry, Teneriffe, Stem, Pontac,
and above all, Hock.--_Gill's Repository._

       *       *       *       *       *


A VIEW OF LONDON.


The finest view in London is from the top of Whitehall Place, looking
towards the river; but then you must see it as I did, at the same hour,
and under similar circumstances.

It was about a fortnight since I beheld that memorable spectacle. I was
on my way home, having dined with a friend, who, though not an habitual
votary of Bacchus, occasionally sacrifices to the god with intense and
absorbing zeal. After dinner we adjourned to the Opera, having only
determined to renew at supper our intimacy with certain flasks of
Champagne, which lay in their icy baths coolly expecting our return. We
carried our determination into effect to the fullest extent; and at
half-past three o'clock we parted, deeply impressed with a sense of each
other's good qualities, and with as keen and lively an appetite for the
sublime and beautiful as an X of Champagne[2] usually imparts to its
warm-hearted admirers. My way led me through Whitehall, at least I found
myself there, as "Charles," the guardian of the night, was announcing
the fourth hour. As my good fortune would have it, I happened to look
towards the river, and never, while memory holds her seat, shall I
forget the sight which presented itself. Six distinct St. Pauls lifted
themselves through the cloudless morning air (so pure, that the smoke of
a single cigar would defile it: I extinguished mine in awe) towards the
blue transparent sky; nearer, and beneath this stately city of temples,
were four Waterloo Bridges, piling their long arcades in graceful and
harmonious regularity one above the other, with the chaste and lofty
symmetry of a mighty aqueduct; while far away, in the dim distance, a
dome of gigantic dimensions was faintly visible, as if presiding over
the scene, linking shadow and substance, uniting the material with the
intellectual world, like the realization of a grand architectural dream.
Talk not to me of the Eternal City--in her proudest days of imperial
magnificence she could not furnish such a view--thrice be that Champagne
lauded!--_Monthly Magazine._

    [2] _Reader_--What does he mean by an X of Champagne?

    _Editor_--An unknown quantity, you fool.

       *       *       *       *       *


NEW YORK.


The distant view of New York, almost free from smoke, is singularly
bright and lively; in some respects it refreshes a recollection of the
sea-bound cities of the Mediterranean. The lower parts of the interior,
next to the warehouses, resemble Liverpool; but the boast of the city is
Broadway, a street that, for extent and beauty, the Trongate of Glasgow,
which it somewhat resembles in general effect, alone excels. The style
of the Trongate is, if the expression may be used, of a more massy and
magnificent character, but there is a lightness in that of Broadway
which most people will prefer. Those who compare the latter with
Oxford-street, in London, do it injustice; for, although the shops in
Oxford-street display a richer show of merchandize, the buildings are
neither of equal consequence nor magnitude. Regent-street in London, is
of course always excepted from comparisons of this kind.

The portico of the Bowery Theatre is immeasurably the finest _morçeau_
of architecture in the city. It resembles that of Covent-Garden, but
seems to be nobler and greater; and yet I am not sure if, in point of
dimensions, it is larger, or so large as that of Covent-Garden. The only
objection to it--and my objection is stronger against the London
theatre--is the unfitness. In both cases, the style and order are of the
gravest Templar character, more appropriate to the tribunals of criminal
justice, than to the haunts of Cytherea and the Muses.--_New Monthly
Mag._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE TRUE FORNARINA.


The account of a journey which was taken in the year 1664, by Cosmo, the
son of Ferdinand II. de Medici, was written at the time, by Philip
Pizzichi, his travelling chaplain. This work was published for the first
time at Florence, about seven months ago. It contains some curious
notices of persons and things, and among them, what will interest every
lover of the fine arts. It is this--speaking of Verona, he mentions the
Curtoni gallery of paintings, and says, "The picture most worthy of
attention is the lady of Raffaello, so carefully finished by himself,
and so well preserved that it surpasses every other." The editor of
these travels has satisfactorily shown that Raffaelo's lady here
described is the true Fornarina; so that of the three likenesses of her
said to be executed by this eminent artist, the genuine one is the
Veronese, belonging to the Curtoni gallery, now in the possession of a
lady Cavellini Brenzoni, who obtained it by inheritance.--_Monthly
Magazine._

       *       *       *       *       *


ITALIAN SCENERY.


Happy is the man, who, leaving the Alps behind him, has the plains of
Lombardy on his right hand and on his left, the Apennines in view, and
Florence as the city towards which he directs his steps. His way is
through a country where corn grows under groves of fruit trees, whose
tops are woven into green arcades by thickly-clustering garlands of
vines; the dark masses of foliage and verdure which every where appear,
melt insensibly, as he advances, into a succession of shady bowers that
invite him to their depths; the scenery is monotonous, and yet ever
various from the richness of its sylvan beauty, possessing all the
softness of forest glades without their gloom. Towards Bologna, the
landscape roughens into hills, which grow into Apennines, but Arcadia
still breathes from slopes and lawns of tender green, which take their
rise in the low stream-watered valleys, and extend up the steep ascent
till met midway by the lofty chestnut groves which pale them in. To
these gentler features succeeds the passage of the Apennines, which
here, at least, are not as the author of "Italy as it Is," describes
them, "the children of the Alps--smiling and gentle and happy as
children should be," but, as we remember them, their summits form
themselves into a wild, dreary region, sown with sterile mountain-tops,
and torn to pieces by wind and storm; the only glimpse of peace is
derived from the view on either side of the sea, which sometimes shows
itself on the horizon, a misty line, half silver, half ether. This
barren wilderness again softens into gracefully-swelling hills turned
towards Florence. The fair olive tree and the dark cypress mingle their
foliage with the luxuriant chestnut boughs, and the frequent marble
villa flashes a white gleam from amid its surrounding laurel bowers. The
sky is more beautiful than earth, and each symbolize peace and serene
enjoyment.--_Westminster Review._

       *       *       *       *       *


MUSICAL MARVEL.


One of the most amusing stories in ancient history, of the successful
and happy use of fine music, is told of Arion, who, when about to be
thrown overboard by some mutinous sailors, begged leave to sing to his
lute one funeral strain before his death. Having obtained leave, he
stood upon the prow with his instrument, chanted with a loud voice his
sweetest elegy, and then threw himself into the sea. A dolphin, as the
story goes, charmed with his music, swam to him while floating on the
waves, bore him on his back, and carried him safely to Cape Taenarus, in
Sparta, from whence he went to Corinth. It would have been well for the
mutineers if their taste for music had been as great as the dolphin's,
for the history not only affords a grand instance of the power of music,
but of retributive justice, as the sailors accidentally going to
Corinth, paid the penalty of their evil intentions with their lives.

       *       *       *       *       *


POPULATION OF AUSTRALIA.


Mr. Martin mentions a very curious fact. The increase of population, he
says, has been most rapid, and is to be accounted for by the number of
females born, the proportion being, with regard to males, as three to
one! The great preponderating number of females brought forth among
domesticated animals, will account for the countless herds of cattle
which overspread the colony.--_New Monthly Magazine._

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE BLACK LADY OF ALTENÖTTING.

