Produced by David Clarke, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


       UNCANNY TALES


           LONDON
 C. ARTHUR PEARSON, LIMITED
   HENRIETTA STREET, W.C.
            1916


Transcriber's Note:

    Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note. Dialect
    spellings have been retained. The oe ligature has been transcribed
    as [oe].


CONTENTS


                                          PAGE

    I. THE UNKNOWN QUANTITY                  7

   II. THE ARMLESS MAN                      19

  III. THE TOMTOM CLUE                      33

   IV. THE CASE OF SIR ALISTER MOERAN       43

    V. THE KISS                             63

   VI. THE GOTH                             73

  VII. THE LAST ASCENT                      88

 VIII. THE TERROR BY NIGHT                  97

   IX. THE TRAGEDY AT THE "LOUP NOIR"      113


UNCANNY STORIES


I

THE UNKNOWN QUANTITY


Professor William James Maynard was in a singularly happy and contented
mood as he strolled down the High Street after a long and satisfactory
interview with the solicitor to his late cousin, whose sole heir he was.

It was exactly a month by the calendar since he had murdered this
cousin, and everything had gone most satisfactorily since. The fortune
was proving quite as large as he had expected, and not even an inquest
had been held upon the dead man. The coroner had decided that it was not
necessary, and the Professor had agreed with him.

At the funeral the Professor had been the principal mourner, and the
local paper had commented sympathetically on his evident emotion. This
had been quite genuine, for the Professor had been fond of his relative,
who had always been very good to him. But still, when an old man remains
obstinately healthy, when his doctor can say with confidence that he is
good for another twenty years at least, and when he stands between you
and a large fortune which you need, and of which you can make much
better use in the cause of science and the pursuit of knowledge, what
alternative is there? It becomes necessary to take steps. Therefore, the
Professor had taken steps.

Looking back to-day on that day a month ago, and the critical preceding
week, the Professor felt that the steps he had taken had been as
judicious as successful. He had set himself to solve a problem in higher
mathematics. He had found it easier to solve than many he was obliged to
grapple with in the course of his studies.

A policeman saluted as the Professor passed, and he acknowledged it with
the charming old world courtesy that made him so popular a figure in the
town. Across the way was the doctor who had certified the cause of
death. The Professor, passing benevolently on, was glad he had now
enough money to carry out his projects. He would be able to publish at
once his great work on "The Secondary Variation of the Differential
Calculus," that hitherto had languished in manuscript. It would make a
sensation, he thought; there was more than one generally accepted theory
he had challenged or contradicted in it. And he would put in hand at
once his great, his long projected work, "A History of the Higher
Mathematics." It would take twenty years to complete, it would cost
twenty thousand pounds or more, and it would breathe into mathematics
the new, vivid life that Bergson's works have breathed into
metaphysics.

The Professor thought very kindly of the dead cousin, whose money would
provide for this great work. He wished greatly the dead man could know
to what high use his fortune was designed.

