"

"That is our business, not yours," said Winter, gruffly decisive. "I
cannot expose you two gentlemen to any personal risk in this affair.
Kindly--"

"You do not understand," broke in the jute merchant, addressing the
burly representative of the Criminal Investigation Department as if he
were a fractious child who must be informed as to the why and
wherefore of a disagreeable duty. "What will you do? Surround the
house with policemen, break in the doors, and fight? You may, or may
not succeed. Some, plenty, of your men will certainly be killed. That
is not good. We do not wish it. Give me those skulls. I and my friend
will go there. You come at one o'clock, tap so on the door, and we
will admit you. Then you take Wong Li Fu and all the others. There
will be no fight."

The Chinaman's manner was singularly impressive as he tapped three
times on a high desk to emphasize, as it were, his instructions. The
sound, too, was curious. He did not use his knuckles, but bunched the
fingers of his right hand together, and rapped on the wood with the
long nails which are a mark of distinction in his race.

"We make things easy and certain for you," he added, more by way of
painstaking argument than because any further explanation was really
necessary. "You do not wish to fail, no? You want to be sure that Wong
Li Fu's evil deeds shall be stopped? Good. We do that-- I and my
friend. We can pass the door-keepers. Can you? No. At one o'clock we
open the door and the Young Manchus will be wholly in your power, to
do with them what you will. I promise that, and my word is always
taken in the city."

Winter turned troubled eyes on Furneaux.

"What do you say?" he muttered irresolutely.

"I think the plan is a good one, and should be adopted," was the
instant reply.

Nevertheless, Winter was perplexed. He hemmed and hawed a good deal.
Seldom did he hesitate in this fashion. As a rule, he was quick to
decide and quicker to act.

"I might entertain your scheme if I were told more about it," he said
dubiously, gazing with troubled eyes at the Chinaman's blandly
inscrutable face. "Please believe me when I say that I trust your good
faith, but I am not sure that even you understand fully the nature of
the adventure you have in mind. Wong Li Fu has already committed one
murder in London. He has attempted others, and is absolutely careless
of consequences. How can I have any guarantee that you and this other
gentleman may not be his next victims? He is a person who displays a
somewhat forced humor. We might enter the Charlotte Street house at
one o'clock and find your corpses there, with labels and ivory skulls
neatly attached."

"That will not be so," was the grave answer.

"If I agree, what time do you propose going there?"

"About midnight."

"And do you expect the police to leave the whole neighborhood severely
alone for another hour?"

"Not unless you wish it. If you so desire you can occupy both ends of
the street, and arrest every Chinaman coming away from No. 412, but
let those pass who go towards it."

"Will others go there-- friends of yours, I mean?"

" Oh, yes. We will overpower the Young Manchus by taking them unaware.
We will act quietly, but there will be no mistake. It is you who will
err if you do not accept our help."

Then Winter yielded, though not with a good grace. The implied
suggestion that the London police could not handle a set of Mongolian
ruffians was utterly distasteful, yet he admitted, though unwillingly,
that he did not want to sacrifice some of his best men in rushing the
place.

