  "How oft we saw him tread the _Milky Way_
  Which to the Glorious _Throne of Mercy_ lay!

  "Come from the _Mount_ he shone with ancient Grace,
  Awful the _Splendor_ of his Aged Face.

  "He _Liv'd_ and to vast age no Illness knew,
  Till _Times_ Scythe waiting for him Rusty grew.

  "He _Liv'd_ and _Wrought_; His Labours were Immense,
  But ne'r _Declined_ to _Præter-perfect Tense_."


He closes this eulogy with an epitaph in Latin.

Mr. Cheever's will, found in the Suffolk probate office, was offered by
his son Thomas and his daughter Susanna, August 26, 1708, a few days
after his death. He wrote it two years previous, when he was ninety-one
years old, a short time before his "dear wife," whom he mentions, died.
In it his estate is appraised at £837:19:6. One handles reverently this
old piece of yellow paper, perhaps ten by twelve inches in size, with
red lines, on which is written in a clear handwriting the last will of
this dear old man. He characteristically begins it thus:--

  "In nomine Domini Amen, I Ezekiel Cheever of the Towne of Boston in the
  County of Suffolk in New England, Schoolmaster, living through great
  mercy in good health and understanding wonderfull in my age, do make and
  ordain this as my last Will & Testament as Followeth: I give up my soule
  to God my Father in Jesus Christ, my body to the earth to be buried in a
  decent manner according to my desires in hope of a Blessed part in y'e
  first resurrection & glorious kingdom of Christ on earth a thousand
  years."

He then gives all his household goods "& of my plate y'e two-ear'd Cup,
my least tankard porringer a spoon," to his wife; "all my books saving
what Ezekiel may need & what godly books my wife may desire," to his son
Thomas; £10 to Mary Phillips; £20 to his grandchild, Ezekiel Russel; and
£5 to the poor. The remainder of the estate he leaves to his wife and
six children, Samuel, Mary, Elizabeth, Ezekiel, Thomas, and Susanna.

One handles still more reverently a little brown, stiff-covered book,
kept in the safe in the Athenæum, of about one hundred and twenty
pages, yellow with age, on the first of which is the year "1631," and on
the second, "Ezekiel Cheever, his booke," both in his own handwriting.
Then come nearly fifty pages of finely-written Latin poems, composed and
written by himself, probably in London; then, there are scattered over
some of the remaining pages a few short-hand notes which have been
deciphered as texts of Scripture. On the last page of this quaint little
treasure--only three by four inches large--are written in English some
verses, one of which can be clearly read as, "Oh, first seek the kingdom
of God and his Righteousness, and all things else shall be added unto
you."

Another MS. of Mr. Cheever's is in the possession of the Massachusetts
Historical Society. It is a book six by eight inches in size, of about
four hundred pages, all well filled with Latin dissertations, with
occasionally a mathematical figure drawn. One turns over the old leaves
with affectionate interest, even if the matter written upon them is
beyond his comprehension. It certainly is a pleasure to read on one of
them the date May 18, 1664.

Verily, New England should treasure the memory of Ezekiel Cheever, the
man who called himself "Schoolmaster," for she owes much to him.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE POET OF THE BELLS.

By E.H. Goss.


Longfellow may well be called the Poet of the Bells; for who has so
largely voiced their many uses as he, or interpreted the part they have
taken in the world's history. That he was a great lover of bells and
bell music is evinced by the many times he chose them as themes for his
poems; nearly a dozen of which are about them, containing some of the
sweetest of his thoughts; and allusions to them, like this from
Evangeline,--

  Anon from the belfry
  Softly the Angelus sounded,"--


are sprinkled all through his longer poems, as well as his prose. The
Song of the Bell, beginning,--

  "Bell! thou soundest merrily
  When the bridal party
  To the church doth hie!"


was among his earliest writings; and The Bells of San Blas was his last
poem, having been written March 15, 1882, nine days only before he
died:--

  "What say the Bells of San Blas
  To the ships that southward pass
  From the harbor of Mazatlan?"


And this last stanza must contain the last words that came from his
pen:--

  "O Bells of San Blas, in vain
  Ye call back the Fast again!
    The Past is deaf to your prayer:
  Out of the shadows of night
  The world rolls into light;
    It is daybreak everywhere."


One of his latest sonnets is entitled Chimes.

  "Sweet chimes! that in the loneliness of night
  Salute the passing hour, and in the dark
  And silent chambers of the household mark
  The movements of the myriad orbs of light!"


This was sung of the beautiful clock that

  "Half-way up the stairs it stands"


in his mansion at Cambridge, by so many thought to be the one referred
to in The Old Clock on the Stairs. But no; that one was in the "Gold
House" at Pittsfield, and is now in disuse; while this one is a fine
piece of mechanism, striking the coming hour on each half hour, and on
the hour itself sweet carillons are played for several moments, so
familiar to the poet that it is no wonder that to hear it he says,--

  "Better than sleep it is to lie awake."


And who has not been entranced by the melody of his

  "In the ancient town of Bruges
  In the quaint old Flemish city,
  As the evening shades descended,
  Low and loud and sweetly blended,
  Low at times and loud at times,
  And changing like a poet's rhymes,
  Rang the beautiful wild chimes
  From the belfry in the market
  Of the ancient town of Bruges."


In the prologue to The Golden Legend, we have the attempt of Lucifer and
the Powers of the Air to tear down the cross from the spire of the
Strasburg Cathedral, with the remonstrance of the bells interwoven:


  "Laudo Deum verum!        Funera plango!
  Plebem voco!              Fulgura frango!
  Congrego clerum!          Sabbata pango!

  "Defunctus ploro!         Excito lentos!
  Pestem fugo!              Dissipo ventos!
  Festa decoro!             Paco cruentos!"

  "I praise the true God, call the people, convene  the clergy;
  I mourn the dead, dispel the pestilence, and grace festivals;
  I mourn at the burial, abate the lightnings, announce the Sabbath;
  I arouse the indolent, dissipate the winds, and appease the avengeful."


Another rendering of the two last lines reads:--

  "Men's death I tell, by doleful knell;
  Lightnings and thunder I break asunder;
  On Sabbath all to church I call;
  The sleepy head, I raise from bed;
  The winds so fierce I do disperse;
  Men's cruel rage, I do assuage."


And in the Legend itself, an historical account of mediæval
bell-ringing is given by Friar Cuthbert, as he preaches to a crowd from
a pulpit in the open air, in front of the cathedral:--

  "But hark! the bells are beginning to chime;...
  For the bells themselves are the best of preachers;
  Their brazen lips are learned teachers,
  From their pulpits of stone, in the upper air,
  Sounding aloft, without crack or flaw,
  Shriller than trumpets under the Law,
  Now a sermon and now a prayer."...


In the Tales of the Wayside Inn occurs the pretty legend of The Bell of
Atri, "famous for all time"; and from his summer home in Nahant, from
across the waters he listens to

  "O curfew of the setting sun! O bells of Lynn!
  O requiem of the dying day! O bells of Lynn!"

