Much the same.  She spoke of him with respect abroad, and with contempt
in her closet.  She watched his conduct and conversation, and found
that he had by travelling, acquired the wickedness of Lovelace without
his wit, and the politeness of Sir Charles Grandison without his
generosity.  The ruddy youth, who washed his face at the cistern every
morning, and swore and looked eternal love and constancy, was now
metamorphosed into a flippant, palid, polite beau, who devotes the
morning to his toilet, reads a few pages of Chesterfield's letters, and
then minces out, to put the infamous principles in practice upon every
woman he meets.


CHARLOTTE

But, if she is so apt at conjuring up these sentimental bugbears, why
does she not discard him at once?

LETITIA

Why, she thinks her word too sacred to be trifled with.  Besides, her
father, who has a great respect for the memory of his deceased friend,
is ever telling her how he shall renew his years in their union, and
repeating the dying injunctions of old Van Dumpling.


CHARLOTTE

A mighty pretty story!  And so you would make me believe that the
sensible Maria would give up Dumpling manor, and the all-accomplished
Dimple as a husband, for the absurd, ridiculous reason, forsooth,
because she despises and abhors him.  Just as if a lady could not be
privileged to spend a man's fortune, ride in his carriage, be called
after his name, and call him her nown dear lovee when she wants money,
without loving and respecting the great he-creature.  Oh!  my dear
girl, you are a monstrous prude.


LETITIA

I don't say what I would do; I only intimate how I suppose she wishes
to act.


CHARLOTTE

No, no, no!  A fig for sentiment.  If she breaks, or wishes to break,
with Mr. Dimple, depend upon it, she has some other man in her eye.  A
woman rarely discards one lover until she is sure of another.  Letitia
little thinks what a clue I have to Dimple's conduct.  The generous man
submits to render himself disgusting to Maria, in order that she may
leave him at liberty to address me.  I must change the subject.
[Aside, and rings a bell.


Enter SERVANT.

Frank, order the horses to.--Talking of marriage, did you hear that
Sally Bloomsbury is going to be married next week to Mr. Indigo, the
rich Carolinian?


LETITIA

Sally Bloomsbury married!--why, she is not yet in her teens.

CHARLOTTE

I do not know how that is, but you may depend upon it, 'tis a done
affair.  I have it from the best authority.  There is my aunt Wyerly's
Hannah.  You know Hannah; though a black, she is a wench that was never
caught in a lie in her life.  Now, Hannah has a brother who courts
Sarah, Mrs. Catgut the milliner's girl, and she told Hannah's brother,
and Hannah, who, as I said before, is a girl of undoubted veracity,
told it directly to me, that Mrs. Catgut was making a new cap for Miss
Bloomsbury, which, as it was very dressy, it is very probable is
designed for a wedding cap.  Now, as she is to be married, who can it
be to but to Mr. Indigo?  Why, there is no other gentleman that visits
at her papa's.


LETITIA

Say not a word more, Charlotte.  Your intelligence is so direct and
well grounded, it is almost a pity that it is not a piece of scandal.


CHARLOTTE

Oh!  I am the pink of prudence.  Though I cannot charge myself with
ever having discredited a tea-party by my silence, yet I take care
never to report any thing of my acquaintance, especially if it is to
their credit,--discredit, I mean,--until I have searched to the bottom
of it.  It is true, there is infinite pleasure in this charitable
pursuit.  Oh! how delicious to go and condole with the friends of some
backsliding sister, or to retire with some old dowager or maiden aunt
of the family, who love scandal so well that they cannot forbear
gratifying their appetite at the expense of the reputation of their
nearest relations!  And then to return full fraught with a rich
collection of circumstances, to retail to the next circle of our
acquaintance under the strongest injunctions of secrecy,--ha, ha,
ha!--interlarding the melancholy tale with so many doleful shakes of
the head, and more doleful "Ah!  who would have thought it! so amiable,
so prudent a young lady, as we all thought her, what a monstrous pity!
well, I have nothing to charge myself with; I acted the part of a
friend, I warned her of the principles of that rake, I told her what
would be the consequence; I told her so, I told her so."--Ha, ha, ha!


LETITIA

Ha, ha, ha!  Well, but, Charlotte, you don't tell me what you think of
Miss Bloomsbury's match.


CHARLOTTE

Think! why I think it is probable she cried for a plaything, and they
have given her a husband.  Well, well, well, the puling chit shall not
be deprived of her plaything: 'tis only exchanging London dolls for
American babies.--Apropos, of babies, have you heard what Mrs.
Affable's high-flying notions of delicacy have come to?


LETITIA

Who, she that was Miss Lovely?


CHARLOTTE

The same; she married Bob Affable of Schenectady.  Don't you remember?

Enter SERVANT.


SERVANT.

Madam, the carriage is ready.


LETITIA

Shall we go to the stores first, or visiting?


CHARLOTTE

I should think it rather too early to visit, especially Mrs. Prim; you
know she is so particular.


LETITIA

Well, but what of Mrs. Affable?


CHARLOTTE

Oh, I'll tell you as we go; come, come, let us hasten.  I hear Mrs.
Catgut has some of the prettiest caps arrived you ever saw.  I shall
die if I have not the first sight of them.                  [Exeunt.


[page intentionally blank]


[illustration omitted]


SCENE II.

A Room in VAN ROUGH'S House

MARIA sitting disconsolate at a Table, with Books, &c.


SONG.


  I.

  The sun sets in night, and the stars shun the day;
  But glory remains when their lights fade away!
  Begin, ye tormentors! your threats are in vain,
  For the son of Alknomook shall never complain.


  II.

  Remember the arrows he shot from his bow;
  Remember your chiefs by his hatchet laid low:
  Why so slow?--do you wait till I shrink from the pain?
  No--the son of Alknomook will never complain.


  III.

  Remember the wood where in ambush we lay,
  And the scalps which we bore from your nation away:
  Now the flame rises fast, you exult in my pain;
  But the son of Alknomook can never complain.


  IV.

  I go to the land where my father is gone;
  His ghost shall rejoice in the fame of his son:
  Death comes like a friend, he relieves me from pain;
  And thy son, Oh Alknomook! has scorn'd to complain.


There is something in this song which ever calls forth my affections.
The manly virtue of courage, that fortitude which steels the heart
against the keenest misfortunes, which interweaves the laurel of glory
amidst the instruments of torture and death, displays something so
noble, so exalted, that in despite of the prejudices of education I
cannot but admire it, even in a savage.  The prepossession which our
sex is supposed to entertain for the character of a soldier is, I know,
a standing piece of raillery among the wits.  A cockade, a lapell'd
coat, and a feather, they will tell you, are irresistible by a female
heart.  Let it be so.  Who is it that considers the helpless situation
of our sex, that does not see that we each moment stand in need of a
protector, and that a brave one too?  Formed of the more delicate
materials of nature, endowed only with the softer passions, incapable,
from our ignorance of the world, to guard against the wiles of mankind,
our security for happiness often depends upon their generosity and
courage.  Alas!  how little of the former do we find!  How
inconsistent! that man should be leagued to destroy that honour upon
which solely rests his respect and esteem.  Ten thousand temptations
allure us, ten thousand passions betray us; yet the smallest deviation
from the path of rectitude is followed by the contempt and insult of
man, and the more remorseless pity of woman; years of penitence and
tears cannot wash away the stain, nor a life of virtue obliterate its
remembrance.  Reputation is the life of woman; yet courage to protect
it is masculine and disgusting; and the only safe asylum a woman of
delicacy can find is in the arms of a man of honour.  How naturally,
then, should we love the brave and the generous; how gratefully should
we bless the arm raised for our protection, when nerv'd by virtue and
directed by honour!  Heaven grant that the man with whom I may be
connected--may be connected!  Whither has my imagination transported
me--whither does it now lead me?  Am I not indissolubly engaged, "by
every obligation of honour which my own consent and my father's
approbation can give," to a man who can never share my affections, and
whom a few days hence it will be criminal for me to disapprove--to
disapprove! would to heaven that were all--to despise.  For, can the
most frivolous manners, actuated by the most depraved heart, meet, or
merit, anything but contempt from every woman of delicacy and sentiment?


[VAN ROUGH without.  Mary!]

Ha! my father's voice--Sir!--

[Enter VAN ROUGH.

VAN ROUGH

What, Mary, always singing doleful ditties, and moping over these
plaguy books.


MARIA

I hope, Sir, that it is not criminal to improve my mind with books, or
to divert my melancholy with singing, at my leisure hours.


VAN ROUGH

Why, I don't know that, child; I don't know that.  They us'd to say,
when I was a young man, that if a woman knew how to make a pudding, and
to keep herself out of fire and water, she knew enough for a wife.
Now, what good have these books done you?  have they not made you
melancholy? as you call it.  Pray, what right has a girl of your age to
be in the dumps? haven't you everything your heart can wish; an't you
going to be married to a young man of great fortune; an't you going to
have the quit-rent of twenty miles square?


MARIA

One-hundredth part of the land, and a lease for life of the heart of a
man I could love, would satisfy me.


VAN ROUGH

Pho, pho, pho! child; nonsense, downright nonsense, child.  This comes
of your reading your storybooks; your Charles Grandisons, your
Sentimental Journals, and your Robinson Crusoes, and such other
trumpery.  No, no, no! child; it is money makes the mare go; keep your
eye upon the main chance, Mary.


MARIA

Marriage, Sir, is, indeed, a very serious affair.


VAN ROUGH

You are right, child; you are right.  I am sure I found it so, to my
cost.


MARIA

I mean, Sir, that as marriage is a portion for life, and so intimately
involves our happiness, we cannot be too considerate in the choice of
our companion.


VAN ROUGH

Right, child; very right.  A young woman should be very sober when she
is making her choice, but when she has once made it, as you have done,
I don't see why she should not be as merry as a grig; I am sure she has
reason enough to be so.  Solomon says that "there is a time to laugh,
and a time to weep." Now, a time for a young woman to laugh is when she
has made sure of a good rich husband.  Now, a time to cry, according to
you, Mary, is when she is making choice of him; but I should think that
a young woman's time to cry was when she despaired of getting one.
Why, there was your mother, now: to be sure, when I popp'd the question
to her she did look a little silly; but when she had once looked down
on her apron-strings, as all modest young women us'd to do, and drawled
out ye-s, she was as brisk and as merry as a bee.


MARIA

My honoured mother, Sir, had no motive to melancholy; she married the
man of her choice.


VAN ROUGH

The man of her choice!  And pray, Mary, an't you going to marry the man
of your choice--what trumpery notion is this?  It is these vile books
[throwing them away].  I'd have you to know, Mary, if you won't make
young Van Dumpling the man of your choice, you shall marry him as the
man of my choice.


MARIA

You terrify me, Sir.  Indeed, Sir, I am all submission.  My will is
yours.


VAN ROUGH

Why, that is the way your mother us'd to talk.  "My will is yours, my
dear Mr. Van Rough, my will is yours"; but she took special care to
have her own way, though, for all that.


MARIA

Do not reflect upon my mother's memory, Sir--


VAN ROUGH

Why not, Mary, why not?  She kept me from speaking my mind all her
life, and do you think she shall henpeck me now she is dead too?  Come,
come; don't go to sniveling; be a good girl, and mind the main chance.
I'll see you well settled in the world.


MARIA

I do not doubt your love, Sir, and it is my duty to obey you.  I will
endeavour to make my duty and inclination go hand in hand.


VAN ROUGH

Well, Well, Mary; do you be a good girl, mind the main chance, and
never mind inclination.  Why, do you know that I have been down in the
cellar this very morning to examine a pipe of Madeira which I purchased
the week you were born, and mean to tap on your wedding day?--That pipe
cost me fifty pounds sterling.  It was well worth sixty pounds; but I
over-reach'd Ben Bulkhead, the supercargo.  I'll tell you the whole
story.  You must know that--

Enter SERVANT.

SERVANT.

Sir, Mr. Transfer, the broker is below.      [Exit.


VAN ROUGH

Well, Mary, I must go.  Remember, and be a good girl, and mind the main
chance.             [Exit.


MARIA, alone.

How deplorable is my situation!  How distressing for a daughter to find
her heart militating with her filial duty!  I know my father loves me
tenderly; why then do I reluctantly obey him?  Heaven knows!  with what
reluctance I should oppose the will of a parent, or set an example of
filial disobedience; at a parent's command, I could wed awkwardness and
deformity.  Were the heart of my husband good, I would so magnify his
good qualities with the eye of conjugal affection, that the defects of
his person and manners should be lost in the emanation of his virtues.
At a father's command, I could embrace poverty.  Were the poor man my
husband, I would learn resignation to my lot; I would enliven our
frugal meal with good humour, and chase away misfortune from our
cottage with a smile.  At a father's command, I could almost submit to
what every female heart knows to be the most mortifying, to marry a
weak man, and blush at my husband's folly in every company I visited.
But to marry a depraved wretch, whose only virtue is a polished
exterior; who is actuated by the unmanly ambition of conquering the
defenceless; whose heart, insensible to the emotions of patriotism,
dilates at the plaudits of every unthinking girl; whose laurels are the
sighs and tears of the miserable victims of his specious
behaviour,--can he, who has no regard for the peace and happiness of
other families, ever have a due regard for the peace and happiness of
his own?  Would to heaven that my father were not so hasty in his
temper?  Surely, if I were to state my reasons for declining this
match, he would not compel me to marry a man, whom, though my lips may
solemnly promise to honour, I find my heart must ever despise.
[Exit.


END OF THE FIRST ACT.


ACT II.  SCENE I.

Enter CHARLOTTE and LETITIA.

CHARLOTTE [at entering].

BETTY, take those things out of the carriage and carry them to my
chamber; see that you don't tumble them.  My dear, I protest, I think
it was the homeliest of the whole.  I declare I was almost tempted to
return and change it.


LETITIA

Why would you take it?


CHARLOTTE

Didn't Mrs. Catgut say it was the most fashionable?


LETITIA

But, my dear, it will never fit becomingly on you.

CHARLOTTE

I know that; but did you not hear Mrs. Catgut say it was fashionable?


LETITIA

Did you see that sweet airy cap with the white sprig?


CHARLOTTE

Yes, and I longed to take it; but, my dear, what could I do?  Did not
Mrs. Catgut say it was the most fashionable; and if I had not taken it,
was not that awkward, gawky, Sally Slender, ready to purchase it
immediately?


LETITIA

Did you observe how she tumbled over the things at the next shop, and
then went off without purchasing anything, nor even thanking the poor
man for his trouble?  But, of all the awkward creatures, did you see
Miss Blouze endeavouring to thrust her unmerciful arm into those small
kid gloves?


CHARLOTTE

Ha, ha, ha, ha!


LETITIA

Then did you take notice with what an affected warmth of friendship she
and Miss Wasp met? when all their acquaintance know how much pleasure
they take in abusing each other in every company.


CHARLOTTE

Lud!  Letitia, is that so extraordinary?  Why, my dear, I hope you are
not going to turn sentimentalist.  Scandal, you know, is but amusing
ourselves with the faults, foibles, follies, and reputations of our
friends; indeed, I don't know why we should have friends, if we are not
at liberty to make use of them.  But no person is so ignorant of the
world as to suppose, because I amuse myself with a lady's faults, that
I am obliged to quarrel with her person every time we meet: believe me,
my dear, we should have very few acquaintance at that rate.

SERVANT enters and delivers a letter to CHARLOTTE, and--[Exit.


CHARLOTTE

You'll excuse me, my dear.

[Opens and reads to herself.


LETITIA

Oh, quite excusable.


CHARLOTTE

As I hope to be married, my brother Henry is in the city.


LETITIA

What, your brother, Colonel Manly?


CHARLOTTE

Yes, my dear; the only brother I have in the world.


LETITIA

Was he never in this city?


CHARLOTTE

Never nearer than Harlem Heights, where he lay with his regiment.


LETITIA

What sort of a being is this brother of yours?  If he is as chatty, as
pretty, as sprightly as you, half the belles in the city will be
pulling caps for him.


CHARLOTTE

My brother is the very counterpart and reverse of me: I am gay, he is
grave; I am airy, he is solid; I am ever selecting the most pleasing
objects for my laughter, he has a tear for every pitiful one.  And
thus, whilst he is plucking the briars and thorns from the path of the
unfortunate, I am strewing my own path with roses.


LETITIA

My sweet friend, not quite so poetical, and a little more particular.


CHARLOTTE

Hands off, Letitia.  I feel the rage of simile upon me; I can't talk to
you in any other way.  My brother has a heart replete with the noblest
sentiments, but then, it is like--it is like--Oh! you provoking girl,
you have deranged all my ideas--it is like--Oh! I have it--his heart is
like an old maiden lady's bandbox; it contains many costly things,
arranged with the most scrupulous nicety, yet the misfortune is that
they are too delicate, costly, and antiquated for common use.


LETITIA

By what I can pick out of your flowery description, your brother is no
beau.


CHARLOTTE

No, indeed; he makes no pretension to the character.  He'd ride, or
rather fly, an hundred miles to relieve a distressed object, or to do a
gallant act in the service of his country; but should you drop your fan
or bouquet in his presence, it is ten to one that some beau at the
farther end of the room would have the honour of presenting it to you
before he had observed that it fell.  I'll tell you one of his
antiquated, anti-gallant notions.  He said once in my presence, in a
room full of company,--would you believe it?--in a large circle of
ladies, that the best evidence a gentleman could give a young lady of
his respect and affection was to endeavour in a friendly manner to
rectify her foibles.  I protest I was crimson to the eyes, upon
reflecting that I was known as his sister.


LETITIA

Insupportable creature! tell a lady of her faults! if he is so grave, I
fear I have no chance of captivating him.


CHARLOTTE

His conversation is like a rich, old-fashioned brocade,--it will stand
alone; every sentence is a sentiment.  Now you may judge what a time I
had with him, in my twelve months' visit to my father.  He read me such
lectures, out of pure brotherly affection, against the extremes of
fashion, dress, flirting, and coquetry, and all the other dear things
which he knows I doat upon, that I protest his conversation made me as
melancholy as if I had been at church; and heaven knows, though I never
prayed to go there but on one occasion, yet I would have exchanged his
conversation for a psalm and a sermon.  Church is rather melancholy, to
be sure; but then I can ogle the beaux, and be regaled with "here
endeth the first lesson," but his brotherly here, you would think had
no end.  You captivate him!  Why, my dear, he would as soon fall in
love with a box of Italian flowers.  There is Maria, now, if she were
not engaged, she might do something.  Oh! how I should like to see that
pair of pensorosos together, looking as grave as two sailors' wives of
a stormy night, with a flow of sentiment meandering through their
conversation like purling streams in modern poetry.


LETITIA

Oh! my dear fanciful--


CHARLOTTE

Hush!  I hear some person coming through the entry.


Enter SERVANT.

SERVANT.

Madam, there's a gentleman below who calls himself Colonel Manly; do
you chuse to be at home?


CHARLOTTE

Shew him in.  [Exit Servant.]  Now for a sober face.

Enter Colonel MANLY.


MANLY

My dear Charlotte, I am happy that I once more enfold you within the
arms of fraternal affection.  I know you are going to ask (amiable
impatience!) how our parents do,--the venerable pair transmit you their
blessing by me.  They totter on the verge of a well-spent life, and
wish only to see their children settled in the world, to depart in
peace.


CHARLOTTE

I am very happy to hear that they are well.  [Coolly.] Brother, will
you give me leave to introduce you to our uncle's ward, one of my most
intimate friends?


MANLY [saluting Letitia].

I ought to regard your friends as my own.


CHARLOTTE

Come, Letitia, do give us a little dash of your vivacity; my brother is
so sentimental and so grave, that I protest he'll give us the vapours.


MANLY

Though sentiment and gravity, I know, are banished the polite world,
yet I hoped they might find some countenance in the meeting of such
near connections as brother and sister.

CHARLOTTE

Positively, brother, if you go one step further in this strain, you
will set me crying, and that, you know, would spoil my eyes; and then I
should never get the husband which our good papa and mamma have so
kindly wished me--never be established in the world.


MANLY

Forgive me, my sister,--I am no enemy to mirth; I love your
sprightliness; and I hope it will one day enliven the hours of some
worthy man; but when I mention the respectable authors of my
existence,--the cherishers and protectors of my helpless infancy, whose
hearts glow with such fondness and attachment that they would willingly
lay down their lives for my welfare,--you will excuse me if I am so
unfashionable as to speak of them with some degree of respect and
reverence.


CHARLOTTE

Well, well, brother; if you won't be gay, we'll not differ; I will be
as grave as you wish.  [Affects gravity.] And so, brother, you have
come to the city to exchange some of your commutation notes for a
little pleasure?


MANLY

Indeed you are mistaken; my errand is not of amusement, but business;
and as I neither drink nor game, my expenses will be so trivial, I
shall have no occasion to sell my notes.


CHARLOTTE

