He was a sour, small, bilious man, with a long face and very dark eyes;
fifty-six years old, sound and active in body, and with an air somewhat
between that of a shepherd and that of a man following the sea.  He never
laughed, that I heard; read long at the Bible; prayed much, like the
Cameronians he had been brought up among; and indeed, in many ways, used
to remind me of one of the hill-preachers in the killing times before the
Revolution.  But he never got much comfort, nor even, as I used to think,
much guidance, by his piety.  He had his black fits when he was afraid of
hell; but he had led a rough life, to which he would look back with envy,
and was still a rough, cold, gloomy man.

As he came in at the door out of the sunlight, with his bonnet on his
head and a pipe hanging in his button-hole, he seemed, like Rorie, to
have grown older and paler, the lines were deeplier ploughed upon his
face, and the whites of his eyes were yellow, like old stained ivory, or
the bones of the dead.

'Ay' he repeated, dwelling upon the first part of the word, 'the _Christ-
Anna_.  It's an awfu' name.'

I made him my salutations, and complimented him upon his look of health;
for I feared he had perhaps been ill.

'I'm in the body,' he replied, ungraciously enough; 'aye in the body and
the sins of the body, like yoursel'.  Denner,' he said abruptly to Mary,
and then ran on to me: 'They're grand braws, thir that we hae gotten, are
they no?  Yon's a bonny knock {15}, but it'll no gang; and the napery's
by ordnar.  Bonny, bairnly braws; it's for the like o' them folk sells
the peace of God that passeth understanding; it's for the like o' them,
an' maybe no even sae muckle worth, folk daunton God to His face and burn
in muckle hell; and it's for that reason the Scripture ca's them, as I
read the passage, the accursed thing.  Mary, ye girzie,' he interrupted
himself to cry with some asperity, 'what for hae ye no put out the twa
candlesticks?'

'Why should we need them at high noon?' she asked.

But my uncle was not to be turned from his idea.  'We'll bruik {16} them
while we may,' he said; and so two massive candlesticks of wrought silver
were added to the table equipage, already so unsuited to that rough sea-
side farm.

'She cam' ashore Februar' 10, about ten at nicht,' he went on to me.
'There was nae wind, and a sair run o' sea; and she was in the sook o'
the Roost, as I jaloose.  We had seen her a' day, Rorie and me, beating
to the wind.  She wasnae a handy craft, I'm thinking, that _Christ-Anna_;
for she would neither steer nor stey wi' them.  A sair day they had of
it; their hands was never aff the sheets, and it perishin' cauld--ower
cauld to snaw; and aye they would get a bit nip o' wind, and awa' again,
to pit the emp'y hope into them.  Eh, man! but they had a sair day for
the last o't!  He would have had a prood, prood heart that won ashore
upon the back o' that.'

'And were all lost?' I cried.  'God held them!'

'Wheesht!' he said sternly.  'Nane shall pray for the deid on my hearth-
stane.'

I disclaimed a Popish sense for my ejaculation; and he seemed to accept
my disclaimer with unusual facility, and ran on once more upon what had
evidently become a favourite subject.

'We fand her in Sandag Bay, Rorie an' me, and a' thae braws in the inside
of her.  There's a kittle bit, ye see, about Sandag; whiles the sook rins
strong for the Merry Men; an' whiles again, when the tide's makin' hard
an' ye can hear the Roost blawin' at the far-end of Aros, there comes a
back-spang of current straucht into Sandag Bay.  Weel, there's the thing
that got the grip on the _Christ-Anna_.  She but to have come in ram-stam
an' stern forrit; for the bows of her are aften under, and the back-side
of her is clear at hie-water o' neaps.  But, man! the dunt that she cam
doon wi' when she struck!  Lord save us a'! but it's an unco life to be a
sailor--a cauld, wanchancy life.  Mony's the gliff I got mysel' in the
great deep; and why the Lord should hae made yon unco water is mair than
ever I could win to understand.  He made the vales and the pastures, the
bonny green yaird, the halesome, canty land--

   And now they shout and sing to Thee,
   For Thou hast made them glad,

as the Psalms say in the metrical version.  No that I would preen my
faith to that clink neither; but it's bonny, and easier to mind.  "Who go
to sea in ships," they hae't again--

            And in
      Great waters trading be,
   Within the deep these men God's works
      And His great wonders see.

Weel, it's easy sayin' sae.  Maybe Dauvit wasnae very weel acquant wi'
the sea.  But, troth, if it wasnae prentit in the Bible, I wad whiles be
temp'it to think it wasnae the Lord, but the muckle, black deil that made
the sea.  There's naething good comes oot o't but the fish; an' the
spentacle o' God riding on the tempest, to be shure, whilk would be what
Dauvit was likely ettling at.  But, man, they were sair wonders that God
showed to the _Christ-Anna_--wonders, do I ca' them?  Judgments, rather:
judgments in the mirk nicht among the draygons o' the deep.  And their
souls--to think o' that--their souls, man, maybe no prepared!  The sea--a
muckle yett to hell!'

I observed, as my uncle spoke, that his voice was unnaturally moved and
his manner unwontedly demonstrative.  He leaned forward at these last
words, for example, and touched me on the knee with his spread fingers,
looking up into my face with a certain pallor, and I could see that his
eyes shone with a deep-seated fire, and that the lines about his mouth
were drawn and tremulous.

Even the entrance of Rorie, and the beginning of our meal, did not detach
him from his train of thought beyond a moment.  He condescended, indeed,
to ask me some questions as to my success at college, but I thought it
was with half his mind; and even in his extempore grace, which was, as
usual, long and wandering, I could find the trace of his preoccupation,
praying, as he did, that God would 'remember in mercy fower puir,
feckless, fiddling, sinful creatures here by their lee-lane beside the
great and dowie waters.'

Soon there came an interchange of speeches between him and Rorie.

'Was it there?' asked my uncle.

'Ou, ay!' said Rorie.

I observed that they both spoke in a manner of aside, and with some show
of embarrassment, and that Mary herself appeared to colour, and looked
down on her plate.  Partly to show my knowledge, and so relieve the party
from an awkward strain, partly because I was curious, I pursued the
subject.

'You mean the fish?' I asked.

'Whatten fish?' cried my uncle.  'Fish, quo' he!  Fish!  Your een are fu'
o' fatness, man; your heid dozened wi' carnal leir.  Fish! it's a bogle!'

He spoke with great vehemence, as though angry; and perhaps I was not
very willing to be put down so shortly, for young men are disputatious.
At least I remember I retorted hotly, crying out upon childish
superstitions.

'And ye come frae the College!' sneered Uncle Gordon.  'Gude kens what
they learn folk there; it's no muckle service onyway.  Do ye think, man,
that there's naething in a' yon saut wilderness o' a world oot wast
there, wi' the sea grasses growin', an' the sea beasts fechtin', an' the
sun glintin' down into it, day by day?  Na; the sea's like the land, but
fearsomer.  If there's folk ashore, there's folk in the sea--deid they
may be, but they're folk whatever; and as for deils, there's nane that's
like the sea deils.  There's no sae muckle harm in the land deils, when
a's said and done.  Lang syne, when I was a callant in the south country,
I mind there was an auld, bald bogle in the Peewie Moss.  I got a glisk
o' him mysel', sittin' on his hunkers in a hag, as gray's a tombstane.
An', troth, he was a fearsome-like taed.  But he steered naebody.  Nae
doobt, if ane that was a reprobate, ane the Lord hated, had gane by there
wi' his sin still upon his stamach, nae doobt the creature would hae
lowped upo' the likes o' him.  But there's deils in the deep sea would
yoke on a communicant!  Eh, sirs, if ye had gane doon wi' the puir lads
in the _Christ-Anna_, ye would ken by now the mercy o' the seas.  If ye
had sailed it for as lang as me, ye would hate the thocht of it as I do.
If ye had but used the een God gave ye, ye would hae learned the
wickedness o' that fause, saut, cauld, bullering creature, and of a'
that's in it by the Lord's permission: labsters an' partans, an' sic
like, howking in the deid; muckle, gutsy, blawing whales; an' fish--the
hale clan o' them--cauld-wamed, blind-eed uncanny ferlies.  O, sirs,' he
cried, 'the horror--the horror o' the sea!'

We were all somewhat staggered by this outburst; and the speaker himself,
after that last hoarse apostrophe, appeared to sink gloomily into his own
thoughts.  But Rorie, who was greedy of superstitious lore, recalled him
to the subject by a question.

'You will not ever have seen a teevil of the sea?' he asked.

'No clearly,' replied the other.  'I misdoobt if a mere man could see ane
clearly and conteenue in the body.  I hae sailed wi' a lad--they ca'd him
Sandy Gabart; he saw ane, shure eneueh, an' shure eneueh it was the end
of him.  We were seeven days oot frae the Clyde--a sair wark we had
had--gaun north wi' seeds an' braws an' things for the Macleod.  We had
got in ower near under the Cutchull'ns, an' had just gane about by soa,
an' were off on a lang tack, we thocht would maybe hauld as far's
Copnahow.  I mind the nicht weel; a mune smoored wi' mist; a fine gaun
breeze upon the water, but no steedy; an'--what nane o' us likit to
hear--anither wund gurlin' owerheid, amang thae fearsome, auld stane
craigs o' the Cutchull'ns.  Weel, Sandy was forrit wi' the jib sheet; we
couldnae see him for the mains'l, that had just begude to draw, when a'
at ance he gied a skirl.  I luffed for my life, for I thocht we were ower
near Soa; but na, it wasnae that, it was puir Sandy Gabart's deid
skreigh, or near hand, for he was deid in half an hour.  A't he could
tell was that a sea deil, or sea bogle, or sea spenster, or sic-like, had
clum up by the bowsprit, an' gi'en him ae cauld, uncanny look.  An', or
the life was oot o' Sandy's body, we kent weel what the thing betokened,
and why the wund gurled in the taps o' the Cutchull'ns; for doon it
cam'--a wund do I ca' it! it was the wund o' the Lord's anger--an' a'
that nicht we foucht like men dementit, and the niest that we kenned we
were ashore in Loch Uskevagh, an' the cocks were crawin' in Benbecula.'

'It will have been a merman,' Rorie said.

'A merman!' screamed my uncle with immeasurable scorn.  'Auld wives'
clavers!  There's nae sic things as mermen.'

'But what was the creature like?' I asked.

'What like was it?  Gude forbid that we suld ken what like it was!  It
had a kind of a heid upon it--man could say nae mair.'

Then Rorie, smarting under the affront, told several tales of mermen,
mermaids, and sea-horses that had come ashore upon the islands and
attacked the crews of boats upon the sea; and my uncle, in spite of his
incredulity, listened with uneasy interest.

'Aweel, aweel,' he said, 'it may be sae; I may be wrang; but I find nae
word o' mermen in the Scriptures.'

'And you will find nae word of Aros Roost, maybe,' objected Rorie, and
his argument appeared to carry weight.

When dinner was over, my uncle carried me forth with him to a bank behind
the house.  It was a very hot and quiet afternoon; scarce a ripple
anywhere upon the sea, nor any voice but the familiar voice of sheep and
gulls; and perhaps in consequence of this repose in nature, my kinsman
showed himself more rational and tranquil than before.  He spoke evenly
and almost cheerfully of my career, with every now and then a reference
to the lost ship or the treasures it had brought to Aros.  For my part, I
listened to him in a sort of trance, gazing with all my heart on that
remembered scene, and drinking gladly the sea-air and the smoke of peats
that had been lit by Mary.

Perhaps an hour had passed when my uncle, who had all the while been
covertly gazing on the surface of the little bay, rose to his feet and
bade me follow his example.  Now I should say that the great run of tide
at the south-west end of Aros exercises a perturbing influence round all
the coast.  In Sandag Bay, to the south, a strong current runs at certain
periods of the flood and ebb respectively; but in this northern bay--Aros
Bay, as it is called--where the house stands and on which my uncle was
now gazing, the only sign of disturbance is towards the end of the ebb,
and even then it is too slight to be remarkable.  When there is any
swell, nothing can be seen at all; but when it is calm, as it often is,
there appear certain strange, undecipherable marks--sea-runes, as we may
name them--on the glassy surface of the bay.  The like is common in a
thousand places on the coast; and many a boy must have amused himself as
I did, seeking to read in them some reference to himself or those he
loved.  It was to these marks that my uncle now directed my attention,
struggling, as he did so, with an evident reluctance.

'Do ye see yon scart upo' the water?' he inquired; 'yon ane wast the gray
stane?  Ay?  Weel, it'll no be like a letter, wull it?'

'Certainly it is,' I replied.  'I have often remarked it.  It is like a
C.'

He heaved a sigh as if heavily disappointed with my answer, and then
added below his breath: 'Ay, for the _Christ-Anna_.'

'I used to suppose, sir, it was for myself,' said I; 'for my name is
Charles.'

'And so ye saw't afore?', he ran on, not heeding my remark.  'Weel, weel,
but that's unco strange.  Maybe, it's been there waitin', as a man wad
say, through a' the weary ages.  Man, but that's awfu'.'  And then,
breaking off: 'Ye'll no see anither, will ye?' he asked.

'Yes,' said I.  'I see another very plainly, near the Ross side, where
the road comes down--an M.'

'An M,' he repeated very low; and then, again after another pause: 'An'
what wad ye make o' that?' he inquired.

'I had always thought it to mean Mary, sir,' I answered, growing somewhat
red, convinced as I was in my own mind that I was on the threshold of a
decisive explanation.

But we were each following his own train of thought to the exclusion of
the other's.  My uncle once more paid no attention to my words; only hung
his head and held his peace; and I might have been led to fancy that he
had not heard me, if his next speech had not contained a kind of echo
from my own.

'I would say naething o' thae clavers to Mary,' he observed, and began to
walk forward.

There is a belt of turf along the side of Aros Bay, where walking is
easy; and it was along this that I silently followed my silent kinsman.  I
was perhaps a little disappointed at having lost so good an opportunity
to declare my love; but I was at the same time far more deeply exercised
at the change that had befallen my uncle.  He was never an ordinary,
never, in the strict sense, an amiable, man; but there was nothing in
even the worst that I had known of him before, to prepare me for so
strange a transformation.  It was impossible to close the eyes against
one fact; that he had, as the saying goes, something on his mind; and as
I mentally ran over the different words which might be represented by the
letter M--misery, mercy, marriage, money, and the like--I was arrested
with a sort of start by the word murder.  I was still considering the
ugly sound and fatal meaning of the word, when the direction of our walk
brought us to a point from which a view was to be had to either side,
back towards Aros Bay and homestead, and forward on the ocean, dotted to
the north with isles, and lying to the southward blue and open to the
sky.  There my guide came to a halt, and stood staring for awhile on that
expanse.  Then he turned to me and laid a hand on my arm.

'Ye think there's naething there?' he said, pointing with his pipe; and
then cried out aloud, with a kind of exultation: 'I'll tell ye, man!  The
deid are down there--thick like rattons!'

He turned at once, and, without another word, we retraced our steps to
the house of Aros.

I was eager to be alone with Mary; yet it was not till after supper, and
then but for a short while, that I could have a word with her.  I lost no
time beating about the bush, but spoke out plainly what was on my mind.

'Mary,' I said, 'I have not come to Aros without a hope.  If that should
prove well founded, we may all leave and go somewhere else, secure of
daily bread and comfort; secure, perhaps, of something far beyond that,
which it would seem extravagant in me to promise.  But there's a hope
that lies nearer to my heart than money.'  And at that I paused.  'You
can guess fine what that is, Mary,' I said.  She looked away from me in
silence, and that was small encouragement, but I was not to be put off.
'All my days I have thought the world of you,' I continued; 'the time
goes on and I think always the more of you; I could not think to be happy
or hearty in my life without you: you are the apple of my eye.'  Still
she looked away, and said never a word; but I thought I saw that her
hands shook.  'Mary,' I cried in fear, 'do ye no like me?'

'O, Charlie man,' she said, 'is this a time to speak of it?  Let me be, a
while; let me be the way I am; it'll not be you that loses by the
waiting!'

I made out by her voice that she was nearly weeping, and this put me out
of any thought but to compose her.  'Mary Ellen,' I said, 'say no more; I
did not come to trouble you: your way shall be mine, and your time too;
and you have told me all I wanted.  Only just this one thing more: what
ails you?'

She owned it was her father, but would enter into no particulars, only
shook her head, and said he was not well and not like himself, and it was
a great pity.  She knew nothing of the wreck.  'I havenae been near it,'
said she.  'What for would I go near it, Charlie lad?  The poor souls are
gone to their account long syne; and I would just have wished they had
ta'en their gear with them--poor souls!'

This was scarcely any great encouragement for me to tell her of the
_Espirito Santo_; yet I did so, and at the very first word she cried out
in surprise.  'There was a man at Grisapol,' she said, 'in the month of
May--a little, yellow, black-avised body, they tell me, with gold rings
upon his fingers, and a beard; and he was speiring high and low for that
same ship.'

It was towards the end of April that I had been given these papers to
sort out by Dr. Robertson: and it came suddenly back upon my mind that
they were thus prepared for a Spanish historian, or a man calling himself
such, who had come with high recommendations to the Principal, on a
mission of inquiry as to the dispersion of the great Armada.  Putting one
thing with another, I fancied that the visitor 'with the gold rings upon
his fingers' might be the same with Dr. Robertson's historian from
Madrid.  If that were so, he would be more likely after treasure for
himself than information for a learned society.  I made up my mind, I
should lose no time over my undertaking; and if the ship lay sunk in
Sandag Bay, as perhaps both he and I supposed, it should not be for the
advantage of this ringed adventurer, but for Mary and myself, and for the
good, old, honest, kindly family of the Darnaways.


CHAPTER III.  LAND AND SEA IN SANDAG BAY.

