In the courtyard is shown a stone, on which is engraved a cross and
divers figures, said to allude to the murder of Malcolm, and the death
of the murderers, who attempting to cross the Lake of Forfar, then
slightly frozen over, the ice broke, and they were drowned: this stone
is described and engraved by Mr. Pennant, in his Tour through Scotland.

By way of enlivening these historical data, and as an epigrammatic
conclusion to our description, we subjoin a pleasant little anecdote
related by Sir Walter Scott, of a certain old Earl of Strathmore, who,
in superintending some improvements of the castle, displayed an
eccentric love of uniformity. "The earl and his gardener directed all in
the garden and pleasure-grounds upon the ancient principle of exact
correspondence between the different parts, so that each alley had its
brother--a principle now renounced by gardeners. It chanced once upon a
time that a fellow was caught committing some petty theft, and, being
taken in the manner, was sentenced by the Bailie M'Wheeble of the
jurisdiction to stand for a certain time in the baronial pillory, called
the _jougs_, being a collar and chain attached to the uppermost portal
of the great avenue which led to the castle. The thief was turned over
accordingly to the gardener as the ground officer, to see the punishment
duly inflicted. When the Thane of Glammis returned from his morning
ride, he was surprised to find both sides of the gateway accommodated
each with a prisoner. He asked the gardener, whom he found watching the
place of punishment, as his duty required, whether another delinquent
had been detected? 'No, my lord,' said the gardener, in the tone of a
man excellently well satisfied with himself, 'but I thought the single
fellow looked very awkward standing on one side of the gateway, so I
gave half-a-crown to one of the labourers to stand on the other side
_for uniformity's sake_.'"

       *       *       *       *       *


ON LOCALITIES:

LITERARY RECOLLECTIONS OF LONDON.

_(To the Editor of the Mirror.)_


No intellectual enjoyment, in my opinion, can surpass the delight we
experience when traversing those spots of the habitable earth where
celebrated warriors fought, minstrels sang, philosophers pondered, or
where philanthropists have immortalized their names by deeds of charity.
To roam through the romantic vales of Italy--surrounded at all turns by
the sad memorials of its former magnificence--the mighty ruins of its
temples and palaces, and the mutilated remains of its statues and
triumphal columns, conveying to the mind mournful images of the fallen
fates of those who had for ages been its proud possessors; where the
Mantuan bard first caught inspiration from the deathless muse; where
Tully charmed the listening throng, whilst defending with mild
persuasion the arts and the sciences he loved, and condemning in
terrible denunciations the mad ambition that threatened the destruction
of his country; to wander among its groves, and say, here Ovid, in
lonely exile, soothed his sorrows with the melody of his heaven-inspired
strain; here Petrarch wooed his much-loved Laura in sonnets soft as the
affection that gave them birth; here Tasso made history and Jerusalem
immortal by crowning them with the garlands of his Promethean genius;
and here Ariosto, Dante, Metastasio, and a galaxy of poets and
philosophers shed the splendour of their gifted imaginations on the
expiring greatness of their country.

Where is the portion of the civilized globe that has not some delightful
reminiscence connected with it? There is not a country in the world,
even the most barbarous, where the inhabitants will not feel pride and
pleasure in pointing out to your attention some sacred spot ever dear to
their memories: some battle-field or scene of conquest; some warrior's
grave; some monarch's sepulchre, or some chieftain or legislator's
dwelling. And what shall we say of the classic soil of Greece? where the
eye cannot turn, or the foot move to a place which is not eternalized by
its associations: where the waters will not remind you of Castalian
founts; the flowers of Parnassian wreaths; the eminences of the Phocian
hills; and where the air of all breathes inspiration. To a mind prone to
contemplation, a walk through Athens must awaken the most exquisite
reveries. Although "fallen from its high estate," there is enough in the
tottering ruins which yet remain to recall the history of its ancient
grandeur: the shattered Acropolis and the Pyraeus tell the tale of other
days, in language at once pathetic and intelligible--

  "_The time has been when they were young and proud,
  Banners on high and battles pass'd below_."

The mind must be distracted with the multiplicity of its recollections;
all that is great or good or glorious in our nature, must be identified
with some forcible remembrance; and heroes, poets, statesmen, patriots,
legislators, philosophers, and the historical events connected with
their names, must congregate before us in sublime and touching
similitude. "Alas, poor country!"--On those shores the monuments of
science and of art, which drew admirers from the remotest corners of the
earth, are now demolished by the savage and cowardly slaves of a despot,
who is himself a slave; the eloquence which swayed the passions of
applauding multitudes is dumb; the pencil of Appelles that breathed over
the canvass, and the chisel of Praxiteles that gave life and animation
to shapeless blocks, are now no more; and the all-powerful lyre, whose
sweeping chords would rouse the soul to rage or melt it into pity, is
now, and perhaps FOR EVER, mute and unstrung!

These observations, which you may think too enthusiastic, were elicited
by the perusal of an article in your No. 388, entitled "A Desultory
Chapter on Localities." Your Correspondent states, that "it is needless
to travel to foreign countries in search of localities. In our own
metropolis and its environs a diligent inquirer will find them at every
step." The following Collection will serve to confirm the truth of his
statement, and should you deem it worthy "a local habitation" in your
excellent journal, I doubt not it will prove interesting, if not quite
new to many of your readers.[1]

    [1] Is not this very interesting extract by Leigh Hunt?--We have
    not his _Indicator_ at hand for reference.

C.E.

"In St. Giles' Church lie Chapman, the earliest and best translator of
Homer; and Andrew Marvell, the wit and patriot, whose poverty Charles
II. could not bribe.--Who would suppose that the Borough was the most
classical ground in the metropolis? And yet it is undoubtedly so. The
Globe Theatre was there, of which Shakspeare himself was a proprietor,
and for which he wrote his plays. Globe-lane, in which it stood, is
still extant, we believe, under that name. It is probable that he lived
near it: it is certain that he must have been much there. It is also
certain that on the Borough side of the river, then and still called the
Bank-side, in the same lodging, having the same wardrobe, and some say,
with other participations more remarkable, lived Beaumont and Fletcher.
In the Borough, also, at St. Saviour's, lie Fletcher and Massinger in
one grave; in the same church, under a monument and effigy, lies
Chaucer's contemporary, Gower; and from an inn in the Borough, the
existence of which is still boasted, and the site pointed out by a
picture and inscription, Chaucer set out his pilgrims and himself on
their famous road to Canterbury.

"To return over the water, who would expect any thing poetical from East
Smithfield? Yet there was born the most poetical even of poets, Spenser.
Pope was born within the sound of Bowbell, in a street no less
anti-poetical than Lombard-street. So was Gray, in Cornhill. So was
Milton, in Bread-street, Cheapside. The presence of the same great poet
and patriot has given happy memories to many parts of the metropolis. He
lived in St. Bride's Churchyard, Fleet-street; in Alders-gate-street, in
Jewin-street, in Barbican, in Bartholomew-close; in Holborn, looking
back to Lincoln's Inn Fields; in Holborn, near Red-lion-square; in
Scotland-yard; in a house looking to St. James' Park, now belonging to
an eminent writer on legislation, and lately occupied by a celebrated
critic and metaphysician; and he died in Artillery-walk, Bunhill-fields;
and was buried in St. Giles', Cripplegate.

"Ben Jonson, who was born 'in Hartshorne-lane, near Charing-cross,' was
at one time 'master' of a theatre in Barbican. He appears also to have
visited a tavern called the Sun and Moon, in Aldersgate-street; and is
known to have frequented with Beaumont and others, the famous one called
the Mermaid, which was in Cornhill.

"The other celebrated resort of the great wits of that time was the
Devil Tavern, in Fleet-street, close to Temple-bar. Ben Jonson lived
also in Bartholomew-close, where Milton afterwards lived. It was in the
passage from the cloisters of Christ's Hospital into St. Bartholomew's.
Aubrey gives it as a common opinion, that at the time when Jonson's
father-in-law made him help him in his business of bricklayer, he worked
with his own hands upon the Lincoln's Inn garden wall, which looks upon
Chancery-lane, and which seems old enough to have some of his
illustrious brick and mortar still remaining.

"Under the cloisters in Christ's Hospital (which stand in the heart of
the city unknown to most persons, like a house kept invisible for young
and learned eyes) lie buried a multitude of persons of all ranks; for it
was once a monastery of Gray Friars. Among them is John of Bourbon, one
of the prisoners taken at the battle of Agincourt. Here also lies Thomas
Burdet, ancestor of the present Sir Francis, who was put to death in the
reign of Edward IV., for wishing the horns of a favourite white stag,
which the King had killed, in the body of the person who advised him to
do it. And here too (a sufficing contrast) lies Isabella, wife of Edward
II.

  'She, wolf of France, with unrelenting fangs,
  Who tore the bowels of her mangled mate'
                                          GRAY.

"Her 'mate's' heart was buried with her, and placed upon her bosom! a
thing that looks like the fantastic incoherence of a dream. It is well
we did not know of her presence when at school; or after reading one of
Shakspeare's tragedies, we should have run twice as fast round the
cloisters at night time, as we used. Camden, 'the nourrice of
antiquitie,' received part of his education in this school; and here
also, not to mention a variety of others known in the literary world,
were bred two of the most powerful and deep-spirited writers of the
present day; whose visits to the cloisters we well remember.

"In a palace on the site of Hatton-garden, died John of Gaunt. Brook
House, at the corner of the street of that name in Holborn, was the
residence of the celebrated Sir Fulke Greville, Lord Brook, the 'friend
of Sir Philip Sydney.' In the same street, died, by a voluntary death,
of poison, that extraordinary person, Thomas Chatterton---

  'The sleepless boy, who perished in his pride.'
                                      WORDSWORTH.

He was buried in the workhouse in Shoe-lane; a circumstance, at which
one can hardly help feeling a movement of indignation. Yet what could
beadles and parish officers know about such a being? No more than Horace
Walpole. In Gray's Inn, lived, and in Gray's Inn Garden meditated, Lord
Bacon. In Southampton-row, Holborn, Cowper was a fellow-clerk to an
attorney with the future Lord Chancellor Thurlow. At the Fleet-street
corner of Chancery-lane, Cowley, we believe, was born. In
Salisbury-court, Fleet-street, was the house of Thomas Sackville, first
Earl of Dorset, the precursor of Spenser, and one of the authors of the
first regular English tragedy. On the demolition of this house, part of
the ground was occupied by the celebrated theatre built after the
Restoration, at which Betterton performed, and of which Sir William
Davenant was manager. Lastly, here was the house and printing-office of
Richardson. In Bolt-court, not far distant, lived Dr. Johnson, who
resided also for some time in the Temple. A list of his numerous other
residences is to be found in Boswell[2]. Congreve died in Surrey-street,
in the Strand, at his own house. At the corner of Beaufort-buildings,
was Lilly's, the perfumer, at whose house the Tatler was published. In
Maiden-lane, Covent-garden, Voltaire lodged while in London, at the sign
of the White Peruke. Tavistock-street was then, we believe, the
Bond-street of the fashionable world; as Bow-street was before. The
change of Bow-street from fashion to the police, with the theatre still
in attendance, reminds one of the spirit of the Beggar's Opera. Button's
Coffee-house, the resort of the wits of Queen's Anne's time, was in
Russell-street--we believe, near where the Hummums now stand. We think
we recollect reading also, that in the same street, at one of the
corners of Bow-street, was the tavern where Dryden held regal possession
of the arm chair. The whole of Covent-garden is classic ground, from its
association with the dramatic and other wits of the times of Dryden and
Pope. Butler lived, perhaps died, in Rose-street, and was buried in
Covent-garden Churchyard; where Peter Pindar the other day followed him.
In Leicester-square, on the site of Miss Linwood's exhibition and other
houses, was the town mansion of the Sydneys, Earls of Leicester, and the
family of Sir Philip and Algernon Sydney. In the same square lived Sir
Joshua Reynolds. Dryden lived and died in Gerrard-street, in a house
which looked backwards into the garden of Leicester House. Newton lived
in St. Martin's-street, on the south side of the square. Steele lived in
Bury-street, St. James'; he furnishes an illustrious precedent for the
loungers in St. James'-street, where scandal-mongers of those times
delighted to detect Isaac Bickerstaff in the person of captain Steele,
idling before the Coffee-house, and jerking his leg and stick
alternately against the pavement. We have mentioned the birth of Ben
Jonson, near Charing-cross. Spenser died at an inn, where he put up on
his arrival from Ireland, in King-street, Westminster--the same which
runs at the back of Parliament-street to the Abbey. Sir Thomas More
lived at Chelsea. Addison lived and died in Holland House, Kensington,
now the residence of the accomplished nobleman who takes his title from
it. In Brook-street, Grosvenor-square, lived Handel; and in
Bentinck-street, Manchester-square, Gibbon. We have omitted to mention
that De Foe kept a hosier's shop in Cornhill; and that, on the site of
the present Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, stood the mansion of
the Wriothesleys, Earls of Southampton, one of whom was the celebrated
friend of Shakspeare. But what have we not omitted also? No less an
illustrious head than the Boar's, in Eastcheap--the Boar's Head Tavern,
the scene of Falstaff's revels. We believe the place is still marked out
by a similar sign. But who knows not Eastcheap and the Boar's Head? Have
we not all been there time out of mind? And is it not a more real, as
well as notorious thing to us, than the London Tavern, or the Crown and
Anchor, or the Hummums, or White's, or What's-his-name's, or any other
of your contemporary and fleeting taps?

    [2] The Temple must have had many eminent inmates. Among them,
    it is believed, was Chaucer, who is also said, upon the strength
    of an old record, to have been fined two shillings for beating a
    Franciscan Friar in Fleet-street.

"Before we rest our wings, however, we must take another dart over the
city, as far as Stratford at Bow, where, with all due tenderness for
boarding-school French, a joke of Chaucer has existed as a piece of
local humour for nearly four hundred and fifty years. Speaking of the
Prioress, who makes such a delicate figure among his Canterbury
Pilgrims, he tells us, among her other accomplishments, that--

  'French she spake full faire and featously;'

adding with great gravity,

  'After the school of Stratford atte Bowe;
  For French of Paris was to her unknowe.'

       *       *       *       *       *


CURIOUS FACTS RELATING TO SLEEP.

_(For the Mirror.)_


"Next to those nourishments that sustain the body (says Dr. Venner)
moderate and seasonable sleep is most profitable and necessary. It helps
digestion, recreates the mind, repairs the spirits, and comforts and
refreshes the whole body." It is also observed by Dr. Hufeland, that
"sleep is one of the wisest regulations of nature, to check and moderate
at fixed periods, the incessant and impetuous stream of vital
consumption. It forms as it were, stations for our physical and moral
existence, and we thereby obtain the happiness of being daily reborn,
and of passing every morning through a state of annihilation, into a new
and refreshed life."

The writer of the article "Sleep." in Rees's _Cyclopædia_, says, "the
proportion of time passed in sleep differs in different persons, and at
different ages. From six to nine hours may be reckoned about the average
proportion. Men of active minds whose attention is engaged in a series
of interesting enjoyments, sleep much less than the listless and
indolent, and the same individual will spend fewer hours in this way,
when strongly interested in any pursuits, than when the stream of life
is gentle and undisturbed. The Great Frederic of Prussia, and John
Hunter, who devoted every moment of their time to the most active
employments of body and mind, generally took only four or five hours'
sleep. A rich and lazy citizen, whose life is merely a chronicle of
breakfast, dinners, suppers, and sleep, will slumber away ten or twelve
hours daily. When any subject strongly occupies us, it keeps us awake in
spite of ourselves. The newly born child sleeps most of its time, and
seems to wake merely for the purpose of feeding. Very old persons sleep
much of their time; in the natural progress towards death, the animal
faculties are first extinguished; accordingly, when they begin to
decline in decrepit old age, the periods of their intermissions are
longer. The celebrated De Moivre, when eighty-three years of age, was
awake only four hours out of the twenty-four; and Thomas Parr at last
slept the greatest part of his time. An eye-witness relates that some
boys, completely exhausted by exertion, fell asleep amid all the tumult
of the battle of the Nile; and other instances are known of soldiers
sleeping amid discharges of artillery, and all the tumult of war.
Couriers are known to sleep on horseback, and coachmen on their coaches.
A gentleman who saw the fact, reported, to the writer of this article,
that many soldiers in the retreat of Sir John Moore, fell asleep on the
march, and continued walking on. Even stripes and tortures cannot keep
off sleep beyond a certain time. Noises at first prevent us from
sleeping, but their influence soon ceases, and persons rest soundly in
the most noisy situations. The proprietors of some vast iron-works, who
slept close to them, through the incessant din of hammers, forges, and
blast furnaces, would awake if there were any interruption during the
night. And a miller, being very ill and unable to sleep, when his mill
was stopped, on his account, rested well and recovered quickly when the
mill was set going again. Great hunger prevents sleep, and cold
affecting a part of the body has the same effect. These causes operated
on the unfortunate women who lived thirty-four days in a small room
overwhelmed by snow, and with the slightest sustenance, they hardly
slept the whole time."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *


PERU: SIMPLICITY OF PASTORAL LIFE.

_(To the Editor of the Mirror.)_


After all that has been written and said on South America, by many
recent travellers, it may probably be thought that the following remarks
are rather out of time; but as a single fact may sometimes serve to show
the state of a country more forcibly than volumes, I am induced to
relate an anecdote which will throw a little light on the present
situation of one portion of the natives of Peru.

The Andes take their rise literally at the "end of the World;" for Cape
Horn certainly deserves that epithet, and the Straights of Magellan,
which divide Terra del Fuego from the continent are comparatively no
more than a mountain stream in a hilly country, so that that island may
without any impropriety be deemed a part of it. The Andes are not one
continuous chain of mountains; but an immensity of piles raised one on
another, at different elevations of which are extensive plains, termed
"Pampas," some of which appear as boundless as the horizon, and totally
divested of herbage. On one of these plains, called the Pampa of Diesmo,
in the province of Junin, I was detained some days at the only hut to be
seen for leagues. One of the _arreóros_, or muleteers, with me, a native
of Madrid, remarked on the solitude of the spot, adding, with a sigh,
"This was a different place when first I visited it." Within about half
a mile from where we were then conversing was an astonishing freak of
Nature. In the midst of the plain were about one hundred naked rocks
rising abruptly from the surface, in detached groups, some of which were
as high as St. Paul's, and many appeared like the spires of a cathedral.
Pointing to these eminences, the muleteer went on to say, "for five
months these rocks were my refuge from white men, and from them have I
seen an army of twenty-five thousand men traverse this plain again and
again; their only support for nearly fourteen months being drawn from
the spot." On asking an explanation, he bid me look round and say if I
thought I could count the number of sheep on the Pampa. I readily
answered I did not think there were fifty. "What will you say, sir,"
said he, "when I tell you that sixteen years since, there were, _on this
plain alone, eight hundred thousand sheep!_ besides oxen; at that time
there was scarcely an Indian that did not possess at least two thousand,
and this was only a part of the wealth of Peru. The desolation that now
exists may justly be laid to the account of a revolution, which has only
been the means of creating a spirit of animosity amongst those who
before were cordially united; you yourself must be aware that if it were
known I was a Godo, (Old Spaniard), my life would not be worth an hour's
purchase; another thing you have yourself experienced, is the total
absence of hospitality in Peru. This is also an effect of the
revolution; for at the time I alluded to, a stranger in this country
need not expend a maravedi in travelling; but those days, I fear, will
never return."

This conversation occurred in the summer of 1827, and there are a few
readers of the MIRROR who were then in Peru, who will readily recognise
the writer.

VIATOR.

       *       *       *       *       *


ON FEAR.

_By Sir Thomas More._


  If evils come not, then our fears are vain,
  And if they do, fear but augments the pain.

       *       *       *       *       *


MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

SKIMINGTON RIDING.

_(To the Editor of the Mirror.)_


I have been amused by the accounts given in a former volume of the
MIRROR, of the curious custom called "Stanging;" may I be allowed to
edge in a few words descriptive of a ceremony belonging to the same
order, which prevails in my native county, (Dorset), instituted and
practised on the same occasions as those mentioned in vol. xii., but
differing from them in many material points, and in my opinion partaking
more of the theatrical cast than either of those two mentioned by your
correspondents. Having been an eye witness to one or two of these
exhibitions, I am enabled to give an accurate account of the same. The
name which they give to this ceremony, as near as I can make out from
the pronunciation, is _Skimington Riding_; the origin of which name I
have endeavoured in vain to ascertain. The ceremony commences by two
fellows armed with stump brooms mounting on a ladder borne by four or
five more of the crowd, when sitting back to back, they commence a
fierce attack on each other with the brooms over their shoulders,
maintaining at the same time as the procession advances, a scolding
dialogue, or rather duet; one of them squeaking to represent the angry
tones of the better half, while the other growls his complaints an
octave below. In this manner, accompanied by the shouts of the crowd,
the rattling of old tin kettles, and the blowing of cow's horns,
producing altogether a horrible din, they parade before the dwelling
house of some peace-breaking couple; and should they be in possession of
any word or words made use of by the unhappy pair in their squabbles,
you may be sure such expressions are repeated with all due emphasis by
the performers on the (stage) ladder. After making as much noise as they
possibly can before the fated dwelling, where they sometimes meet with a
most ungracious reception, they proceed in the same style through all
the streets of the parish in order that the whole place may be apprized
of the conduct of the offending couple; and they keep up the game as
long as they possibly can.

_Sturminster._

RURIS.

       *       *       *       *       *


A SEA-SIDE MAYOR.

_(For the Mirror.)_


At Yarmouth, a person is selected from among those employed on the beach
during the fishing season, who is denominated the _Sea-side Mayor_, his
office being to inflict certain punishments and penalties on such
fishermen as are found guilty of pilfering herrings, &c.

The fishing commences in the latter part of September, a day or two
previous to which a procession goes round the town, the object and order
of which are as follow:--

A person grotesquely attired, and carrying a trident, to represent
Neptune,[3] precedes, followed by four or five men bearing colours with
inscriptions of "Prosperity to the town of Yarmouth." "Death to our best
Friends," (meaning the herrings), "Success to the Herring Fishery," &c.
Then follows a band of musicians. The Sea-side Mayor (dressed as a
sailor, and wearing a gilt chain around his neck) brings up the rear, in
a handsome boat built for the occasion, and borne on the shoulders of
ten or a dozen men, wearing white ribands on the breast of their jackets
and on their hats.

    [3] An individual named Joseph Penny, was for many years the
    representative of Neptune. He was a man of daring spirit, and
    there are many living at this time who were indebted to his
    intrepidity for being rescued from drowning. In the month of
    November 1825, accompanied by his son, he went off from the
    beach in an open boat, to a vessel in distress, soon after which
    the boat was washed ashore, with the body of the son entangled
    in the rigging; but the father was never again heard of.

In this order the procession calls at the shops of different
tradespeople, or any one at all connected with the herring fishery,
where they solicit contributions, and those who are disposed to be
liberal, are honoured with a tune from the musicians, and the cheering
of the mayor. After parading the town they retire to a tavern to dinner.
A great number of French and Dutch fishing boats resort to Yarmouth at
the herring fishing, and on the Sunday previous to the 21st of
September, "Dutch Fair," as it is denominated, is held on the beach, and
presents a novel and interesting appearance.

From twenty to thirty of their flat bottomed boats are run on shore at
high water, and as the tide recedes, are left high and dry. Dutch pipes,
dried flounders, wooden shoes, apples, and gingerbread, are then offered
for sale, and if the weather be fine, the beach is thronged with
company, many of whom come from a great distance.

W. S. L.

       *       *       *       *       *


SAXON NAMES OF THE MONTHS.

_(For the Mirror.)_


December, which stood first, was styled "Mid-winter monath." January was
"Aefter-yule," or after Christmas. February "Sol-monath," from the
returning sun. March "Rhede, or Rhede monath," rough, or rugged month.
April "Easter monath," from a favourite Saxon goddess, whose name we
still preserve. May was "Trimilchi," from the cows being then milked
thrice in the day. June "Sere monath," dry month. July "Maed monath,"
the meads being then in their bloom. August was "Weod monath," from the
luxuriance of weeds. September "Haerfest monath." October they called
"Winter fylleth," from winter approaching with the full moon of that
month. And lastly, November was styled "Blot monath," from the blood of
the cattle slain that month, and stored for winter provision. Verstegan
names the months somewhat differently.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *


CURIOUS BEQUEST.

_(For the Mirror.)_


John Wardell, by will, dated August 29, 1656, gave to the Grocers'
Company, a tenement known by the name of the White Bear, in Walbrook, to
the intent that they should yearly, within thirty days after Michaelmas,
pay to the churchwardens of St. Botolph, Billingsgate, £4. to provide a
good and sufficient iron and glass lantern, with a candle, for the
direction of passengers, to go with more security to and from the water
side, all night long, to be placed at the north-east corner of the
parish church of St. Botolph, from the Feast Day of St. Bartholomew to
Lady Day; out of which sum £1. is to be paid to the sexton for taking
care of the said lantern.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *


SLEEPERS IN CHURCH.

_(For the Mirror.)_


Richard Davey, in 1659, founded a free-school at Claverley, Salop, and
directed to be paid yearly the sum of eight shillings to a poor man of
the said parish, who should undertake to awaken sleepers, and to whip
out dogs from the church of Claverley, during divine service.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SELECTOR;

AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS_.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE EPPING HUNT.

_By Thomas Hood, Esq._

