     'Before he nought amiss could do,
       Now all things show amiss;
     'Twas all my fault, I know that true,
       But all my fault was his.

     'I hate him for his mute distress,
       'Tis insult he should care!
     Because my heart's all humbleness,
       All pride is in my air.

     'With him, each favour that I do
       Is bold suit's hallowing text;
     Each gift a bastion levelled, to
       The next one and the next.

     'Each wish whose grant may him befall
       Is clogged by those withstood;
     He trembles, hoping one means all,
       And I, lest perhaps it should.

     'Behind me piecemeal gifts I cast,
       My fleeing self to save;
     And that's the thing must go at last,
       For that's the thing he'd have.

     'My lock the enforc-ed steel did grate
       To cut; its root-thrills came
     Down to my bosom.  It might sate
       His lust for my poor shame!

     'His sifted dainty this should be
       For a score ambrosial years!
     But his too much humility
       Alarums me with fears.

     'My gracious grace a breach he counts
       For graceless escalade;
     And, though he's silent ere he mounts,
       My watch is not betrayed.

     'My heart hides from my soul he's sweet:
       Ah dread, if he divine!
     One touch, I might fall at his feet,
       And he might rise from mine.

     'To hear him praise my eyes' brown gleams
       Was native, safe delight;
     But now it usurpation seems,
       Because I've given him right.

     'Before I'd have him not remove,
       Now would not have him near;
     With sacrifice I called on Love,
       And the apparition's Fear.'

     Foolish to give it!--'Twas my whim,
       When he might parted be,
     To think that I should stay by him
       In a little piece of me.

     'He always said my hair was soft--
       What touches he will steal!
     Each touch and look (and he'll look oft)
       I almost thought I'd feel.

     'And then, when first he saw the hair,
       To think his dear amazement!
     As if he wished from skies a star,
       And found it in his casement.

     'He's kiss the lock--and I had toyed
       With dreamed delight of this:
     But ah, in proof, delight was void--
       I could not SEE his kiss!'

     So, fond one, half this agony
       Were spared, which my hand hushes,
     Could you have played, Sweet, the sweet spy,
       And blushed not for your blushes!


A GIRL'S SIN.

     II.--In his eyes.

     Can I forget her cruelty
     Who, brown miracle, gave you me?
     Or with unmoisted eyes think on
     The proud surrender overgone,
     (Lowlihead in haughty dress),
     Of the tender tyranness?
     And ere thou for my joy was given,
     How rough the road to that blest heaven!
     With what pangs I fore-expiated
     Thy cold outlawry from her head;
     How was I trampled and brought low,
     Because her virgin neck was so;
     How thralled beneath the jealous state
     She stood at point to abdicate;
     How sacrificed, before to me
     She sacrificed her pride and thee;
     How did she, struggling to abase
     Herself to do me strange, sweet grace,
     Enforce unwitting me to share
     Her throes and abjectness with her;
     Thence heightening that hour when her lover
     Her grace, with trembling, should discover,
     And in adoring trouble be
     Humbled at her humility!
     And with what pitilessness was I
     After slain, to pacify
     The uneasy manes of her shame,
     Her haunting blushes!--Mine the blame:
     What fair injustice did I rue
     For what I--did not tempt her to?
     Nor aught the judging maid might win
     Me to assoil from HER sweet sin.
     But nought were extreme punishment
     For that beyond-divine content,
     When my with-thee-first-giddied eyes
     Stooped ere their due on Paradise!
     O hour of consternating bliss
     When I heavened me in thy kiss;
     Thy softness (daring overmuch!)
     Profan-ed with my licensed touch;
     Worshipped, with tears, on happy knee,
     Her doubt, her trust, her shyness free,
     Her timorous audacity!


LOVE DECLARED.

     I looked, she drooped, and neither spake, and cold,
     We stood, how unlike all forecasted thought
     Of that desir-ed minute!  Then I leaned
     Doubting; whereat she lifted--oh, brave eyes
     Unfrighted:--forward like a wind-blown flame
     Came bosom and mouth to mine!
                                That falling kiss
     Touching long-laid expectance, all went up
     Suddenly into passion; yea, the night
     Caught, blazed, and wrapt us round in vibrant fire.


        Time's beating wing subsided, and the winds
     Caught up their breathing, and the world's great pulse
     Stayed in mid-throb, and the wild train of life
     Reeled by, and left us stranded on a hush.
     This moment is a statue unto Love
     Carved from a fair white silence.
                                Lo, he stands
     Within us--are we not one now, one, one roof,
     His roof, and the partition of weak flesh
     Gone down before him, and no more, for ever?--
     Stands like a bird new-lit, and as he lit,
     Poised in our quiet being; only, only
     Within our shaken hearts the air of passion,
     Cleft by his sudden coming, eddies still
     And whirs round his enchanted movelessness.


     A film of trance between two stirrings!  Lo,
     It bursts; yet dream's snapped links cling round the limbs
     Of waking:  like a running evening stream
     Which no man hears, or sees, or knows to run,
     (Glazed with dim quiet), save that there the moon
     Is shattered to a creamy flicker of flame,
     Our eyes' sweet trouble were hid, save that the love
     Trembles a little on their impassioned calms.


THE WAY OF A MAID.

     The lover whose soul shaken is
     In some decuman billow of bliss,
     Who feels his gradual-wading feet
     Sink in some sudden hollow of sweet,
     And 'mid love's us-ed converse comes
     Sharp on a mood which all joy sums--
     An instant's fine compendium of
     The liberal-leav-ed writ of love;
     His abashed pulses beating thick
     At the exigent joy and quick,
     Is dumbed, by aiming utterance great
     Up to the miracle of his fate.
     The wise girl, such Icarian fall
     Saved by her confidence that she's small,--
     As what no kindred word will fit
     Is uttered best by opposite,
     Love in the tongue of hate exprest,
     And deepest anguish in a jest,--
     Feeling the infinite must be
     Best said by triviality,
     Speaks, where expression bates its wings,
     Just happy, alien, little things;
     What of all words is in excess
     Implies in a sweet nothingness,
     With dailiest babble shows her sense
     That full speech were full impotence;
     And while she feels the heavens lie bare,
     She only talks about her hair.


     BEGINNING OF END.

