 The combined system at each end
of the line will then consist of the telephone-set, T1, the telegraph
instruments (comprising battery, B1, key, M1 and Morse receiver, R1),
the "graduating" electromagnets, E1, and E2, the "graduating"
condenser, C1, and the "separating" condenser, C2. It was found by
actual experiments that the same arrangement was good for lines
varying from 28 to 200 miles in length. A single wire between
Brussels, Ghent, and Ostend is now regularly employed for transmission
by telegraph of the ordinary messages and of the telemeteorographic
signals between the two observatories at those places, and by
telephone of verbal simultaneous correspondence, for one of the Ghent
newspapers. A still more interesting arrangement is possible, and is
indicated in Fig. 4. Here a separating condenser is introduced at the
intermediate station at Ghent between earth and the line, which is
thereby cut into two independent sections for telephonic purposes,
while remaining for telegraphic purposes a single undivided line
between Brussels and Ostend. Brussels can telegraph to Ostend, or
Ostend to Brussels, and at the same time the wire can be used to
telephone between Ghent and Ostend, or between Ghent and Brussels, or
both sections may be simultaneously used.

[Illustration: Fig. 3]

[Illustration: Fig. 4]

It would appear, then, that M. Van Rysselberghe has made an advance of
very extraordinary merit in devising these combinations. We have seen
in recent years how duplex telegraphy superseded single working, only
to be in turn superseded by the quadruplex system. Multiplex
telegraphy of various kinds has been actively pursued, but chiefly on
the other side of the Atlantic rather than in this country, where our
fast-speed automatic system has proved quite adequate hitherto.
Whether we shall see the adoption in the United Kingdom of Van
Rysselberghe's system is, however, by no means certain. The essence of
it consists in retarding the telegraphic signals to a degree quite
incompatible with the fast-speed automatic transmission of telegraphic
messages in which our Post Office system excels. We are not likely to
spoil our telegraphic system for the sake of simultaneous telephony,
unless there is something to be gained of much greater advantage than
as yet appears.--_Nature._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ELECTRIC MARIGRAPH.


For registering the height of the tide at every instant, hydrographic
services generally adopt quite a simple marigraph. The apparatus
consists in principle of a counterpoised float whose rising and
falling motion, reduced to a tenth, by means of a system of toothed
wheels, is transmitted to a pencil which moves in front of a vertical
cylinder. This cylinder itself moves around its axis by means of a
clockwork mechanism, and accomplishes one entire revolution every
twenty-four hours. By this means is obtained a curve of the tide in
which the times are taken for abscisses and the heights of the sea for
ordinates. However little such marigraphs have had to be used, great
defects have been recognized in them. When we come to change the sheet
on the cylinder (and such change should be made at least once every
fifteen days), there is an interruption in the curve. It is necessary,
besides, to perform office work of the most detailed kind in order to
refer to the same origin all these curves, which are intercrossed and
often superposed in certain parts upon the original sheet. In order to
render such a disentanglement possible, it is indispensable to mark by
hand, at least once every twenty-four hours, upon each curve, the date
of the day corresponding to it. It is equally useful to verify the
exactness of the indications given by the apparatus by making readings
several times a day on a scale of tides placed alongside of the float.
Nine times out of ten the rise of the waves renders such readings very
difficult and the control absolutely illusory.

All these conditions united, as well as others that we neglect in this
brief discussion, necessitate a surveillance at every instant. The
result is that these marigraphs must be installed in a special
structure, very near the bank, so as to be reachable at all times, and
that the indications that they give are always vitiated by error,
since the operation is performed upon a level at which are exerted
disturbing influences that are not found at a kilometer at sea. It
were to be desired that the float could be isolated by placing it a
certain distance from the shore, and transmit its indications, by
meant of a play of currents, to a registering apparatus situated upon
_terra firma_.

In the course of one of his lectures published in the December number
(1883) of the _Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift_, Mr. Von Hefner-Alteneck
tells us that such a desideratum has been supplied by the firm of
Siemens & Halske. This marigraph, constructed on an order of the
German Admiralty, gives the level of the sea every ten minutes with an
approximation of 0.12 per cent., and that too for a difference of 8
meters between the highest and lowest sea. The apparatus consists, as
we said above, of a float and registering device, connected with each
other by means of a cable. This latter is formed of three ordinary
conductors covered with gutta percha and surrounded with a leaden
sheath, which latter is itself protected against accident by means of
a strong covering of iron wire and hemp. The return is effected
through the earth. We shall enter into details concerning each of
these two apparatus in-succession, by beginning with the float, of
which Fig. 1 gives a general view, and Fig. 2 a diagrammatic sketch.
The float moves in a cast iron cylinder, having at its lower part a
large number of apertures of small diameter, so that the motion of the
waves does not perceptibly influence the level of the water in the
interior of the cylinder. It is attached to a copper ribbon, B, whose
other extremity is fixed to the drum, T. The ribbon winds around the
latter in the rising motion of the float, owing to a spiral spring
arranged so as to act upon the drum. The tension of this spring goes
on increasing in measure as the float descends.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.--FLOAT OF SIEMENS AND HALSKE'S MARIGRAPH.]

[Illustration: FIG. 2.]

This difference in tension is utilized for balancing at every instant
the weight of the ribbon unwound, and thus causing the float to
immerse itself in the water to a constant degree. The ribbon, B, is
provided throughout its length with equidistant apertures that exactly
correspond to tappets that project from the circumference of the
wheel, R. When the float moves its position, the wheel, R, begins to
turn and carries along in doing so the pinion, w, which revolves
over the toothed wheels, s1, s2, and s3. The thickness of w
is equal to that of the three wheels, s1, s2, and s3, and a
special spring secures at every instant an intimate contact between
the pinion and the said wheels. These latter are insulated from each
other and from the axle upon which they are keyed, and communicate,
each of them, with conductors, I., II., and III. They are so formed
and mounted that, in each of them, the tooth in one corresponds to the
interspace in the two others. As a result of this, in the motion of
the pinion, w, the latter is never in contact with but one of the
three wheels, s1, s2, and s3.

