
_Origin of the Discovery of Peru_.--Balboa, the famous Spanish
adventurer, in one of his expeditions, met with a young cazique, who
expressed his astonishment at the high value which was set upon the
gold, which the Spaniards were weighing and distributing. "Why do you
quarrel," said he, "about such a trifle? If you are so passionately fond
of gold as to abandon your own country, and to disturb the tranquillity
of distant nations, for its sake, I will conduct you to a region where
the metal, which seems to be the chief object of your admiration and
desire, is so common, that the meanest utensils are formed of it."
Transported with the intelligence, Balboa eagerly inquired where this
happy country lay, and how they might arrive at it. The cazique informed
them, that at the distance of six suns, or six days' journey to the
south, they would discover another ocean, near which this wealthy
kingdom was situated; but if they intended to attack it, they must
assemble forces far superior in number and strength to those which now
attended them.--This was the first information which the Spaniards
received concerning the great southern continent, known afterwards
by the name of Peru.

P.T.W.


_Cholera Morbus._--Dr. James Johnson, in his interesting book
entitled, _Change of Air, or Pursuits of Health_, &c., says--"The
cholera morbus ought to be denominated the high-police of scavengers.
It has cleared away more filth, in Europe and England, than all the
municipal edicts that ever issued from the constituted authorities.
On this, and on some other accounts, it _will_ save more lives
than it _has_ destroyed."


_Patriotism._--When the Chancellor d'Auguesseau, who constantly
resisted the encroachments of Louis XIV. on the liberties of the people,
was sent for to Versailles by that monarch, he was thus encouraged by
his amiable wife: "Go," said she, "forget in the king's presence your
wife and your children,--sacrifice everything except your honour."

SWAINE.


His late Majesty, when Prince of Wales, was looking out of a window with
Tom Sheridan, when the "Dart," with four grey horses passed by. "Is not
that a handsome coach, Tom?" observed the Prince. "Yes, your highness,"
replied Tom, who was suffering under a headach from the champagne of the
previous night, and was rather in a sombre and meditative humour, "it
certainly is; but," continued he, pointing to a hearse going by at the
same time, "that's the coach _after all_."


_A Knowing Seaman._--A rough-hewn seaman being brought before a wise
justice for some misdemeanour, was by him ordered to be sent to prison,
and was refractory after he heard his doom, insomuch as he would not
stir a foot from the place where he stood, saying it was better to stand
where he was than go to a worse place.--_Bacon_.

P.T.W.


_Expensive Fishing._--In 1609, the Dutch were compelled to pay a tribute
for fishing on our coast; in 1683, they paid 30,000l. for liberty to
fish. Welwood, in his answer to Grotius, says, "that the Scots obliged
the Dutch, by treaty, to keep eighty miles from shore in fishing, and to
pay a tribute at the port of Aberdeen, where a tower was erected for
that and other purposes; and the Dutch paid the tribute, even in the
memory of our forefathers."

THOMAS GILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Printed and published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) London; sold by G.G. BENNIS, 55, Rue Neuve, St. Augustin, Paris;
CHARLES JUGEL, Francfort; and by all Newsmen and Booksellers._