     "I, Thomas Rice Willard, of lawful age, do testify and declare
     that, being in the house of Daniel Harrington, of said Lexington,
     on the 19th instant, in the morning, about half an hour before
     sunrise, looked out at the window of said house, and saw (as I
     suppose) about four hundred regulars in one body, coming up the
     road, and marched toward the north part of the common, back of
     the meeting-house of said Lexington; and as soon as said regulars
     were against the east end of the meeting-house, the commanding
     officer said something, what I know not, but upon that the
     regulars ran till they came within about eight or nine rods of
     about a hundred of the militia of Lexington, who were collected
     on said common, at which time the militia of Lexington dispersed.
     Then the officers made a huzza, and the private soldiers
     succeeded them: directly after this, an officer rode before the
     regulars to the other side of the body, and hallooed after the
     militia of said Lexington, and said, "Lay down your arms, damn
     you, why don't you lay down your arms?"--and that there was not a
     gun fired till the militia of Lexington were dispersed. And
     further saith not.

                                   "THOMAS RICE WILLARD."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "Simon Winship, of Lexington, in the county of Middlesex, and
     province of Massachusetts Bay, New England, being of lawful age,
     testifieth and saith, that on the 19th April instant, about four
     o'clock in the morning, as he was passing the public road in said
     Lexington, peaceably and unarmed, about two miles and a half
     distant from the meeting-house in said Lexington, he was met by a
     body of the king's regular troops, and being stopped by some
     officers of said troops, was commanded to dismount. Upon asking
     why he must dismount, he was obliged by force to quit his horse,
     and ordered to march in the midst of the body; and, being
     examined whether he had been warning the minute-men, he answered,
     'No, but had been out, and was then returning to his father's.'
     Said Winship farther testifies that he marched with said troops,
     till he came within about half a quarter of a mile of said
     meeting-house, where an officer commanded the troops to halt, and
     then to prime and load: this being done, the said troops marched
     on till they came within a few rods of Captain Parker's company,
     who were partly collected on the place of parade, when said
     Winship observed an officer at the head of said troops,
     flourishing his sword, and with a loud voice giving the word,
     'Fire! fire!' which was instantly followed by a discharge of arms
     from said regular troops; and said Winship is positive, and in
     the most solemn manner declares, that there was no discharge of
     arms on either side, till the word 'Fire' was given by the said
     officer as above.

                                   "SIMON WINSHIP."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "I, John Parker, of lawful age, and commander of the militia in
     Lexington, do testify and declare that, on the 19th instant, in
     the morning, about one of the clock, being informed that there
     were a number of regula-officers riding up and down the road,
     stopping and insulting people as they passed the road; and also
     was informed that a number of regular troops were on their march
     from Boston, in order to take the province stores at Concord,
     ordered our militia to meet on the common in said Lexington, to
     consult what to do, and concluded not to be discovered, nor
     meddle or make with said regular troops (if they should
     approach), unless they should insult or molest us; and, upon
     their sudden approach, I immediately ordered our militia to
     disperse, and not to fire. Immediately said troops made their
     appearance, and rushed furiously, fired upon, and killed eight of
     our party, without receiving any provocation therefor from us.

                                   "JOHN PARKER."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 24, 1775_.

     "I, John Robins, being of lawful age, do testify and say that, on
     the 19th instant, the company under the command of Captain John
     Parker, being drawn up (some time before sunrise) on the green or
     common, and I being in the front rank, there suddenly appeared a
     number of the king's troops, about a thousand, as I thought, at
     the distance of about sixty or seventy yards from us, huzzaing,
     and on a quick pace toward us, with three officers in their front
     on horseback, and on full gallop toward us, the foremost of which
     cried, 'Throw down your arms, ye villains, ye rebels!' upon which
     said company dispersing, the foremost of the three officers
     ordered their men, saying, 'Fire, by God! fire!' at which moment
     we received a very heavy and close fire from them; at which
     instant, being wounded, I fell, and several of our men were shot
     dead by me. Captain Parker's men, I believe, had not then fired
     a gun. And further the deponent saith not.

                                   "JOHN ROBINS."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "We, Benjamin Tidd, of Lexington, and Joseph Abbot, of Lincoln,
     in the county of Middlesex, and colony of Massachusetts Bay, in
     New England, of lawful age, do testify and declare that, on the
     morning of the 19th of April instant, about five o'clock, being
     on Lexington common, and mounted on horses, we saw a body of
     regular troops marching up to the Lexington company, which was
     then dispersing. Soon after, the regulars fired, first, a few
     guns, which we took to be pistols from some of the regulars who
     were mounted on horses, and then the said regulars fired a volley
     or two before any guns were fired by the Lexington company; our
     horses immediately started, and we rode off. And further say not.

                                   "BENJAMIN TIDD, JOSEPH ABBOT."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "We, Nathaniel Mullokin, Philip Russell, Moses Harrington, jun.,
     Thomas and Daniel Harrington, William Grimes, William Tidd, Isaac
     Hastings, Jonas Stone, jun., James Wyman, Thaddeus Harrington,
     John Chandler, Joshua Reed, jun., Joseph Simonds, Phineas Smith,
     John Chandler, jun., Reuben Cock, Joel Viles, Nathan Reed, Samuel
     Tidd, Benjamin Lock, Thomas Winship, Simeon Snow, John Smith,
     Moses Harrington the 3d, Joshua Reed, Ebenezer Parker, John
     Harrington, Enoch Willington, John Hornier, Isaac Green, Phineas
     Stearns, Isaac Durant, and Thomas Headley, jun., all of lawful
     age, and inhabitants of Lexington, in the county of Middlesex,
     and colony of the Massachusetts Bay, in New England, do testify
     and declare, that, on the 19th of April instant, about one or two
     o'clock in the morning, being informed that several officers of
     the regulars had, the evening before, been riding up and down the
     road, and had detained and insulted the inhabitants passing the
     same; and also understanding that a body of regulars were
     marching from Boston toward Concord, with intent (as it was
     supposed) to take the stores, belonging to the colony, in that
     town, we were alarmed, and having met at the place of our
     company's parade, were dismissed by our captain, John Parker, for
     the present, with orders to be ready to attend at the beat of the
     drum. We further testify and declare, that, about five o'clock in
     the morning, hearing our drum beat, we proceeded toward the
     parade, and soon found that a large body of troops were marching
     toward us. Some of our company were coming up to the parade, and
     others had reached it, at which time the company began to
     disperse. While our backs were turned on the troops, we were
     fired on by them, and a number of our men were instantly killed
     and wounded. Not a gun was fired by any person in our company on
     the regulars, to our knowledge, before they fired on us, and
     they continued firing until we had all made our escape.

                         "Signed by each of the above deponents,"


                                   "LEXINGTON, _25th of April, 1775_.

     "We, Nathaniel Parkhurst, Jonas Parker, John Munroe, jun., John
     Winship, Solomon Pierce, John Muzzy, Abner Meeds, John Bridge,
     jun., Ebenezer Bowman, William Munroe the 3d, Micah Hager, Samuel
     Saunderson, Samuel Hastings, and James Brown, of Lexington, in
     the county of Middlesex, and colony of the Massachusetts Bay, in
     New England, and all of lawful age, do testify and say, that, on
     the morning of the 19th of April instant, about one or two
     o'clock, being informed that a number of regular officers had
     been riding up and down the road the evening and night preceding,
     and that some of the inhabitants, as they were passing, had been
     insulted by the officers, and stopped by them; and being also
     informed that the regular troops were on their march from Boston,
     in order (as it was said) to take the colony stores then
     deposited at Concord, we met on the parade of our company in this
     town. After the company had collected, we were ordered by Captain
     Parker (who commanded us) to disperse for the present, and to be
     ready to attend the beat of the drum; and accordingly the company
     went into houses near the place of parade. We further testify and
     say, that, about five o'clock in the morning, we attended the
     beat of our drum, and were formed on the parade; we were faced
     toward the regulars then marching up to us, and some of our
     company were coming to the parade with their backs toward the
     troops, and others, on the parade, began to disperse, when the
     regulars fired on the company, before a gun was fired by any of
     our company on them. They killed eight of our company, and
     wounded several, and continued their fire until we had all made
     our escape.

                                   "Signed by each of the deponents."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "I, Timothy Smith, of Lexington, in the county of Middlesex, and
     colony of Massachusetts Bay, in New England, being of lawful age,
     do testify and declare, that, on the morning of the 19th of April
     instant, being on Lexington common, as a spectator, I saw a large
     body of regular troops marching up toward the Lexington company,
     then dispersing, and likewise saw the regular troops fire on the
     Lexington company, before the latter fired a gun. I immediately
     ran, and a volley was discharged at me, which put me in imminent
     danger of losing my life. I soon returned to the common, and saw
     eight of the Lexington men who were killed, and lay bleeding at a
     considerable distance from each other; and several were wounded.
     And further saith not.

                                   "TIMOTHY SMITH."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "We, Levi Mead and Levi Harrington, both of Lexington, in the
     county of Middlesex, and colony of Massachusetts Bay, in New
     England, and of lawful age, do testify and declare, that, on the
     morning of the 19th of April, being on Lexington commons, as
     spectators, we saw a large body of regular troops marching up
     toward the Lexington company; and some of the regulars, on
     horses, whom we took to be officers, fired a pistol or two on the
     Lexington company, which was then dispersing. These were the
     first guns that were fired, and they were immediately followed by
     several volleys from the regulars, by which eight men belonging
     to said company were killed, and several wounded.

                                   "LEVI HARRINGTON, LEVI MEAD."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 25, 1775_.

     "I, William Draper, of lawful age, and an inhabitant of Colrain,
     in the county of Hampshire, and colony of Massachusetts Bay, in
     New England, do testify and declare, that, being on the parade of
     said Lexington, April 19th instant, about half an hour before
     sunrise, the king's regular troops appeared at the meeting-house
     of Lexington. Captain Parker's company, who were drawn up back of
     said meeting-house on the parade, turned from said troops, making
     their escape, by dispersing. In the meantime, the regular troops
     made a huzza, and ran toward Captain Parker's company, who were
     dispersing; and, immediately after the huzza was made, the
     commanding officer of said troops (as I took him) gave the
     command to the said troops--"Fire! fire! damn you, fire!"--and
     immediately they fired, before any of Captain Parker's company
     fired, I then being within three or four rods of said regular
     troops. And further say not.

                                   "WILLIAM DRAPER."


                                   "LEXINGTON, _April 23, 1775_.

     "I, Thomas Fessenden, of lawful age, testify and declare, that,
     being in a pasture near the meeting-house, at said Lexington, on
     Wednesday last, at about half an hour before sunrise, I saw a
     number of regular troops pass speedily by said meeting-house, on
     their way toward a company of militia of said Lexington, who were
     assembled to the number of about one hundred in a company, at the
     distance of eighteen or twenty rods from said meeting-house; and
     after they had passed by said meeting-house, I saw three
     officers, on horseback, advance to the front of said regulars,
     when one of them, being within six rods of the said militia,
     cried out, "Disperse, you rebels, immediately!" on which he
     brandished his sword over his head three times: meanwhile, the
     second officer, who was about two rods behind him, fired a
     pistol, pointed at said militia, and the regulars kept huzzaing
     till he had finished brandishing his sword; and when he had thus
     finished brandishing his sword, he pointed it down toward said
     militia, and immediately on which the said regulars fired a
     volley at the militia, and then I ran off as fast as I could,
     while they continued firing till I got out of their reach. I
     further testify, that, as soon as ever the officer cried,
     "Disperse, you rebels," the said company of militia dispersed
     every way, as fast as they could; and, while they were
     dispersing, the regulars kept firing at them incessantly. And
     further saith not.

                                   "THOMAS FESSENDEN."


                                   "LINCOLN, _April 23, 1775_.

