"This affair obliged me to quit Vienna more abruptly than I intended;
but instead of going to Venice, I went to Paris, taking Frankfort in my
way. Being entirely unknown at Frankfort, I hastily visited alone every
thing remarkable in the city, resolving to leave it in the morning; but
the day was sultry, and in the evening, partly owing to fatigue, I felt
myself tired and indisposed, and remained there next day. In the
afternoon I found myself better; and as a public pleasure-garden was
near the hotel where I stopped, I went to amuse myself for a few minutes
there. Whether custom or any festival had that evening assembled an
unusual concourse of people I never inquired, but the garden was crowded
with a gay multitude, and music with great hilarity enlivened the
entertainment. I walked about delighted with the scene.

"In the course of my sauntering amidst the arbours, I came to an alcove
a little remote from the more stirring cloud, and in it were several
gentlemen playing cards: two were at chess, and by their side a little
boy, seemingly one of their sons, amusing himself with throwing dice.
After looking for a minute or two, I went to the child, and in sheer
playfulness challenged the boy for a throw. At the same instant that
I took the box in my hand, some one touched my elbow; I looked round,
and the old man was there--'PAUSE!' said he. In that instant
a rope-dancer at some distance fell, a shriek rose, my attention was
roused, and I missed again the stranger; but when tranquillity was
restored, my desire to play at dice returned, and I again challenged the
child to whom I lost several pieces of money, which the lucky boy was as
proud of gaining as the conqueror at the Battle of Prague.

"That was the first time I had ever played at dice. My education
was recluse. I had no companions, and we had no dice in the castle.
The idle game pleased me. When I returned to the hotel, I ordered dice,
and amused myself all the evening with casting them, actuated by a
persuasion that there must be a mode of doing so by which any desired
number may be thrown. This notion took possession of my mind, and I
stayed several days at Frankfort, employed in attempts to make the
discovery; at last I did succeed. With a pair of dice I attained a
sleight by which I could cast what I pleased; but with it I also
made another discovery: it was only with perfect cubes I could be so
successful. I tried many, but all, in any degree imperfect, could not
be so commanded.

"I then went to Paris, where, being well introduced, I became a
favourite. The ladies could not make enough of me, and I felt no
_ennui_ to lead me to the gaming-tables. But one night, on which I had
an appointment with a fascinating favourite, when I went to her house
I found she had been seized with the small-pox. To shun reflection on
the loathsome disease, I went to a house which I knew was much frequented
by some of my friends, and, as I expected, met several. They invited
me to play, and as I was ignorant of cards, they consented to throw
dice, because, not aware of my art with them, they supposed, seeing me
out of spirits, that it would rouse me. We played for trifling stakes,
and to their indescribable astonishment, I won every throw, and,
doubling our stakes, at last, a large sum of money.

"Next day the lady died. My grief was such that I could not but look
upon her. Her waiting gentlewoman consented, and I was shown into the
apartment where she lay, at the moment when the attendants were
preparing the body. Such a spectacle! I flew in anguish again to the
gaming-house; I diced again, as if a furor had possessed me; I staked
largely, and won every thing. All the guests and the plundered were
amazed at my success, and collected in crowds around. The pressure upon
me was inconvenient. I turned to request the spectators would stand
back. At my elbow again stood the Demon, 'GO ON,' were his words.
I was petrified, and he was away.

"Unable to proceed with the effects of the surprise, my losing
antagonist imagined that I was making some sign to a secret confidant,
but not daring to express his suspicion, only requested the dice should
be changed. They were so. The new ones were not cubes, and they were
uneven in weight. I lost back the greatest part of my winnings; and
I also lost character. It was observed that I threw the casts in a
different manner from that in which I had thrown the first dice.
A suspicion arose among the spectators that I did so on purpose to lose,
and in a few evenings I was stripped of the greater part of my fortune,
for every evening the dice were changed, and sometimes often in the
course of a night. At last I quitted Paris, with the matured character
of a thorough libertine and an unfair gamester.

"I took my passage at Marseilles, for Naples, and at the time appointed
for embarkation, went to the mole to go on board.

"It was evening; the sun had set some time; the beacon of the port was
lighted; and the dawn of the moon was brightening the eastern horizon.
The populace, who were enjoying the cool air, had not however dispersed,
but were standing in numerous groups around. A feeling at the moment
came upon me that the Demon was near, and I resolved if it appeared
again to employ my sword, although at the time persuaded that it was but
a form impalpable. In the same moment I saw it before me; out flew my
sword, and in the instant I felt that it pierced a mortal heart; but
instead of the old visionary-man, I beheld a boatman dead and bleeding
at my feet. A wild cry arose. The mob seized me, and I was carried to
prison. Next day the case was investigated before the court of justice.
I related the simple fact. A glib advocate doubted my asseverations; but
the spectators, who were numerous, gave the fullest credit to the story,
and I was spared the doom of a murderer, because the judges were of
opinion that I could have no motive to commit the crime, and had
perpetrated the deed under some influence of temporary lunacy.

"That was the wanton assassination with which all Europe rang at the
time, and was ascribed to the extravagance of my reprobate nature.

"After my liberation, I proceeded to Naples, and mingling in all the
pleasures of that luxurious city, in addition to my dexterity with the
dice, I acquired equal skill at the cards. In the study of them I found
my sight possessed of a faculty not before imagined. The sharpness of
my sight soon enable me to discover at once all the cards of a pack
distinctly from each other, and I speedily was master of every popular
game. This superiority made me heedless of my disbursements; I could at
any time supply my purse at the gaming-table, and as a consequence of
that independence, I surrendered myself to enjoyment, and for years
lived in riot and revelry, unmolested by the Demon.

"An unvaried career of licentiousness was not, however, my lot. An
irascible countryman of yours, a lieutenant of the royal navy, who was
introduced to me at a party, suddenly seemed to scowl at me with the
visage of the demon, as we were in the heat of an argument, and I struck
him in the face. A duel was the consequence, and he disabled me in the
right arm. That accident destroyed my sleight-of-hand with the dice.
Thus was one source of my income cut off; a slight fever soon afterwards
left its dregs in my eyes, I could no longer distinguish the cards with
my wonted accuracy, and thus fell into poverty.

"Disturbed at the blight which had fallen on my fortunes, I shunned the
haunts of the gay and reckless, and became a cicerone to the travellers;
for my reputation as a libertine had reached Poland, and I was ashamed
to return home.

"One day, when I had conducted an English family to Herculaneum, I felt
myself a little indisposed while showing them the theatre, and, with
much charitable feeling, they insisted on my going up to the fresh air,
and leave them with the common guide. Glad to avail myself of their
kindness, I instantly retired, and at a short distance from the opening
where we descended, I sat down on the capital of a defaced Corinthian
column, to wait their return.

"While sitting on that spot, I cast my eyes accidentally towards the
summit of Vesuvius, then emitting, as if panting for breath, occasional
volumes of white smoke. As they rolled along the speckless expanse of
the calm blue firmament, they assumed various beautiful forms, and I was
watching their progress, forgetful of all but the visible poesy of their
appearance, when the voice of the Demon whispered, as if its dreadful
lips were at my ear--'YOUR BROTHER.'

"I started from my seat, and looked behind me in horror; but only the
bay, with its romantic shores, was in sight.

"When I had shaken off the consternation of the moment, I resumed my
seat, and began to examine myself as to the purpose suggested by the
portentous words. My cogitation was not long. The count was unmarried,
and was the only impediment between me and the family estates.

"You can imagine what followed: here I am, and this night I shall be
with the Demon; but I should continue the remainder of my story. When
the English travellers returned, they spoke to me with a friendly
tenderness, and something in my appearance and manners had so interested
them in my favour, that the old gentleman presented me with a purse of
guineas. That money enabled me at once to return to Warsaw, where I
consummated the instigation of the Demon."

Such was the tale told me by the unhappy man--wonderful certainly
in its circumstances, but widely different from the terrific chaos
of the popular belief, and simple in its incidents, compared to the
incantations with which the apparitions of the tremendous visitant
were invested by the people.

I would have questioned him more particularly, but our interview was
interrupted by the arrival of the ecclesiastical procession, and I was
obliged to leave the prison. After the clergy, all but one, who remained
with him to the last, had left him, nobody was admitted. The crowd,
however, round the scaffold continued all day to increase, and the bells
to toll. At last the sun set, the guards lighted their torches, and only
the black scaffold and the upturned faces of the multitude were visible
from where I stood. The prison gate was soon after opened; the culprit,
wrapped in a winding sheet, came forth, attended by the municipal
officers, and proceeded with the funereal sound of trumpets to the
dreadful spot where the two executioners, with their arms and throats
bare, lifted a covering from the rack, and took their stations beside
it, holding the handspikes, for turning the rending wheels, like
muskets, on their shoulders. The moment that Mavrovitch mounted the
scaffold, the trumpets and the tolling bells ceased; all was silent,
and he walked with a firm tread towards the engine of torture. The
executioners stepped forward, each took him by the arm. At the same
moment a wild shriek rose; but what ensued is so well known, that
I may spare myself from further recital.--_New Mon. Mag._--(_abridged._)

       *       *       *       *       *


THE TOPOGRAPHER.

       *       *       *       *       *


MONMOUTHSHIRE.

(_For the Mirror._)


  Soon round us spread the hill and dales
  Where Geoffrey spun his magic tales
  And call'd them history. The land
  Whence Arthur sprung, and all his band
  Of gallant knights.

  BLOOMFIELD'S BANKS OF WYE.


This county, the inland parts of which consist of verdant meadow or
arable land, is bounded on all sides excepting that which joins the
Severn, by ranges of hills which have generally either been covered with
woods or devoted to the feeding of cattle. The southern or Severn side
presents to the view well cultivated lands, gently rising from the
shore.

Monmouth, the capital town, is situated at the confluence of the Wye and
Munnow, "in a vale," says Gray, "which is the delight of my eyes, and
the very seat of pleasure." It is surrounded on all sides by hills,
which by affording the lowlands shelter from the bleak winds, promote
vegetation, and present a beautiful prospect of hanging woods,
interspersed with corn and pasture land.

The town consists principally of one long and handsome street, at the
end of which is an old tower, which formerly defended the Munnow Bridge.
There are a few remains of the castle in which Henry V. was born; an
elegant and highly ornamented residence "the Castle House," has been
built within its site, and partly of its materials. Monmouth is supposed
to be the ancient Blestium. Abergavenny on the Usk is situated in a spot
which partakes still more of the character of Welsh scenery: on the
south west rises the Blorench mountain, in height 1,720 feet; to the
north west the still higher mountain of the Sugar Loaf towers amidst the
clouds. To the north east lies St. Michael's Mountain, or the Great
Skyrrid, at one end of which is a remarkable chasm about 300 feet in
breadth. The castle at Abergavenny formerly belonged to the Nevilles.
The Welsh chroniclers have celebrated the Mountains of Carno, near
this place, as having been bedewed with the blood of the Saxons.

The magnificent ruins of Ragland Castle lie half way between Monmouth
and Abergavenny. Charles I. was entertained here during the first
troubles of his reign, with noble hospitality by the aged Marquess of
Worcester, who surrendered the castle, after a siege of almost three
months, to the Parliamentary army under Sir Thomas Fairfax, in 1646:

  "Majestic Ragland! Harvests wave
  Where thundering hosts their watchword gave,
  When cavaliers, with downcast eye,
  Struck the last flag of loyalty."

  BLOOMFIELD.


His son Edward, the second Marquess, was the author of the celebrated
"Century of Inventions," in which the first hint of the steam
engine appeared, which he calls "By divine providence, and heavenly
inspiration, a stupendous water commanding engine, boundless for height
or quantity;" and so delighted was he at the discovery of what he terms
"The most stupendous work in the whole world," that he returned thanks
to God for having vouchsafed him an insight into so great a secret of
nature. He died in 1667, and his remains were conveyed with mournful
solemnity to the cemetery of the Beaufort family in Ragland Church.

The town of Caerleon on the Usk, abounds with Roman remains, and is
supposed to have been built on the site of a British town. Giraldus
Cambrensis writes that "very eminent men were brought up and taught
here," which countenances the supposition that its real name may have
been Cathain Leigean, "the city of learning."

About two miles to the east of the mouth of the Usk rises Goldcliff,
a solitary hill amidst the moors on the banks of the Severn. It derives
its name from its glittering appearance when the sun beams on it.
"I cannot be persuaded," says Camden, that "there is a flower here
without fruit, were any man to search into the veins, and using the
direction of art enter into the inmost and most secret bowels of the
earth."

Caerwent, the Venta Silurum of the Romans, is now an inconsiderable
village; it was once a seaport, but at present is two miles distant
from the Severn; it occupies a gently inclining plain. Mr. Coxe, in his
"Tour through Monmouthshire," has given a plan of the Roman town, which
was defended on all sides except the southern, by a deep fosse. The
walls are from twelve to twenty-four feet in height, and from nine to
twelve in thickness. Many curious figures which have been discovered in
the pavements, have been destroyed through the ignorance of the country
people. The mounds and mouldering walls in the adjacent fields, present
melancholy memorials of the former grandeur of this place.

The village of Trelech is remarkable for three Druidical stones,
which give name to it. Harold here defeated the Britons, and from an
inscription on a pedestal in the village, we may suppose that a large
tumulus near this spot, contains the bones of the slain.

At the mansion of Courtfield, at Welsh Bicknor, the seat of the Roman
Catholic family of Vaughan, Henry V. is traditionally reported to have
been nursed, under the care of the Countess of Salisbury; a monumental
effigy of a lady in accordance with the style of that age, is in the
church.

The celebrated ruins of Tintern Abbey, on the banks of the Wye, which
are kept in high preservation by the Duke of Beaufort, afford a noble
specimen of Gothic architecture, and retain marks of their ancient
magnificence:

  "The fair wrought shaft all ivy bound
  The tow'ring arch with foliage crown'd
  That trembles on its brow sublime,
  Triumphant o'er the spoils of Time."


These remains acquire additional beauty from their romantic situation.
The roof has fallen in; but the pillars and tracery of many of the
windows are perfect. The green lawn is covered with fragments of
sculpture and memorials of those who once dwelt within this magnificent
pile:

  "But all is still. The chequer'd floor,
  Shall echo to the step no more;
  Nor airy roof the strain prolong
  Of vesper chant or choral song."

  BLOOMFIELD.


In the year 1634, Colonel Sandys attempted to make the Wye navigable
by means of locks, but as this experiment was unsuccessful, they were
afterwards removed. This river from the confluence of its mountain
streams after heavy rains, is subject to sudden inundations, which
though in many respects injurious to the farmer, greatly fertilize the
meadows in its vicinity, and especially those near Monmouth, by the
valuable matter it deposits. The tide of the Severn, from the peculiar
projection of the rocks at the mouth of the Wye, flows up the latter
river with great rapidity, to the height of more than forty feet.
"The highest tide," says Mr. Coxe, "within the memory of the present
generation, rose to fifty-six feet."

To the admirers of the architecture of the baronial mansions of the
middle ages, the remains of the numerous castles which have been erected
on the banks of the Wye to repel the incursions of the Welsh, by the
Talbots and Strongbows, and other renowned families of former days,
will afford the highest gratification, and give a silent though powerful
admonition, that human grandeur endureth but for a day:


              "On the Gwentian shore
  The regal banner streams no more.
  Nettles and vilest weeds that grow,
  To mock poor grandeur's head laid low,
  Creep round the turret's valour rais'd,
  And flaunt where youth and beauty gazed."


W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SUNDAY LIBRARY.

This work is intended to consist of "_Manuals of Religious Edification_,
more especially adapted for the LORD'S DAY; as containing the sentiments
of many of the more eminent Divines of the Church of England in the
_Discourses_ delivered from their pulpits:" or, in plain terms,
it is to comprise a Selection of Sermons from the most eminent Divines
of the Church of England, chiefly within the last half century. Its
editorship is entrusted to the learned and accomplished Dr. Dibdin,
who enforces the publication of a _religious_ Library, in these
energetic words:--"Let it be specially impressed upon the minds of
Christians of EVERY persuasion, that at NO moment can a work, similar to
the present, have stronger claims upon their attention and support, than
at _this precise period_, when the elements of civil society seem
to be agitated in a variety of directions, and when a sound and sober
exposition of Scriptural Truths may essentially contribute to the
support of the best interests of the COUNTRY."

The two volumes before us contain the incomparable Mount Sermon by
Bishop Porteus; Bishop Bloomfield on the Choice of a Religion; two
Sermons by Paley; prefixed to the latter is a Memoir, concluding with
these excellent observations by the Editor:--

"The Sermons of Paley were chiefly a posthumous publication. They were
preached to, as they were written for, a country congregation; they are
therefore divested of studied ornament of style, and elaboration of
argument. But they bear the peculiar impress of the author's own
powerful and unsophisticated mind; and for strength of conception, and
clearness and sometimes vigour of expression, it may be questioned
whether many in them have been ever surpassed. They are not, strictly
speaking, eloquent; but there is a force, as well us a novelty of
treatment, in many of them, that put them above all comparison. They
are familiar without coarseness, and terse without obscurity. Their
main charm may be said to consist in the simplicity and strength with
which religious and moral truths are handled; the uncompromising and
straightforward manner in which human frailties and sins are exposed;
the kindliness of exhortation to repentance and godliness of living; the
power, purity, and comfort of the Gospel-dispensation; and, above all,
the perfect absence of fanaticism, of an overheated fancy, and of a
persecuting spirit. But these qualities, which so eminently distinguish
the _writer_, ought in some degree to possess the _reader_,
of the sermons in question. For the kindly _reception_ of the
scriptural truths enforced by Paley, there must be nothing ascetic,
nothing morose, nothing self-willed and intolerant, in the mind of him
who sets himself in right earnest to the task of their perusal. In like
manner, all highly wrought, impassioned, and uncontrollable emotions,
which carry the infatuated understanding into a wide and wild sea of
doubt and distraction, must be absent from the reader. It cannot be
dissembled that, when read with a proper spirit, we rise from the
perusal of Paley's Sermons not less convinced of the necessity of
putting a guard upon the unruliness of our passions, than of living
in peace, goodwill, and brotherly love with all mankind."

Among the remainder in the first volume (in all 16,) is Bishop Horne's
_Life a Journey_, upon that touching line in Psalm cxix.--

  "I am a stranger upon the earth."


How beautifully are the consolations of our blessed religion set forth
in the imagery of the subsequent extract:--

