Mountain lions also wander over all parts of the reserve, but are common
only in the rough country along the Blue. Wildcats are rather common and
widely distributed, but are far more numerous on the Black and the Blue
rivers. Timber wolves were once rather common, but are now nearly
extinct, owing to their persecution by owners of sheep and
cattle. Coyotes occur in this district occasionally in summer. Wild
turkeys are found more or less generally throughout this section of the
reserve, retreating in winter to the warmer country along the breaks of
the Blue and the canyon of Black River, where they sometimes gather in
very large flocks.


NOTES ON SETTLEMENTS, ROADS AND OTHER MATTERS.

The greater part of this section of the Black Mesa Reserve is unsettled,
but the northeastern corner, along Nutrioso Creek and the head of San
Francisco River, is traversed by a wagon road leading to
Springerville. Within the limits of the reservation on this road are two
small farming villages of Nutrióse and Alpine. The owners of the small
farms along the valleys of these streams also raise a limited number of
cattle and horses on the surrounding hills. A few claims are also held
at scattered points along the extreme northern edge of the reserve
between Springerville and Nutrioso. Between 1883 and 1895 several herds
of cattle were grazed on the head of Black River, and ranged in winter
down on the breaks of the Blue and the canyons of Black River; but I
understand that these ranges have since been abandoned by the cattle
men. For some years the sheep men have grazed their flocks in summer
over the Big Mesa country and through the surrounding open forest. In
addition to the damage done by the grazing of the sheep, the
carelessness of the herders in starting forest fires has resulted in
some destruction to the timber. Fortunately, the permanent settlers on
this section of the reserve are located in the northeastern corner,
which is the least suitable portion of the tract for game. In addition
to the wagon road from Springerville to Nutrioso another road has been
made from Springerville south across the Big Mesa to the head of Black
River. Trails run from Nutrioso and Springerville to the head of Blue
River and down it to the copper mining town of Clifton, but are little
used. At various times scattered settlers have located along the Blue,
and cultivated small garden patches. The first of these settlers were
killed by the Apaches, and I am unable to say whether these farms are
now occupied or not. In any case, the conditions along the tipper Blue
are entirely unsuited for successful farming.

Perhaps the most serious menace to the successful preservation of game
on this tract is its proximity to the White Mountain Indian
Reservation. This reservation not only takes in some of the finest game
country immediately bordering the timber reserve, including Ord and
Thomas peaks, but is often visited by hunting parties of Indians.

During spring and early summer, all of the yellow pine and fir country
in this section is subjected to a plague of tabano flies, which are
about the size of large horse-flies. These flies swarm in great numbers
and attack stock and game so viciously that, as a consequence, the
animals are frequently much reduced in flesh. The Apaches take advantage
of this plague to set fire to the forest and lie in wait for the game,
which has taken shelter in the smoke to rid itself from the flies. In
this way the Indians kill large numbers of breeding deer, and at the
same time destroy considerable areas of forest. While on a visit to this
district in the summer of 1899 Mr. Pinchot saw the smoke of five forest
fires at different places in the mountains, which had been set by
hunting parties of Indians for the purpose. The only method by which not
only the game but the forest along the western side of this reserve can
be successfully protected will be to have the western border of the
forest reserve extended to take in a belt eight to twelve miles wide of
the Indian reservation. This would include Ord and Thomas peaks, and
would serve efficiently to protect the country about the headwaters of
the rivers from these destructive inroads.

The northern border of this section of the reserve is about one hundred
miles by wagon road from the nearest point on the Santa Fe Pacific
Railroad. Seven miles from its northern border is the town of
Springerville, with a few hundred inhabitants in its vicinity engaged in
farming, cattle and sheep growing. From Springerville north extends the
plains of the Little Colorado to St. Johns, the county seat of Apache
county, containing a few hundred people. To the south and east of the
reserve there are no towns for some distance, except a few small
settlements along the course of the San Francisco River in New Mexico,
which are far removed from the part of the reserve which is most
suitable for game. The fact that deer continue abundant in the district
about the head of Black River, although hunted at all seasons for many
years, and the continuance there of elk for so long, under the same
conditions, is good evidence of the favorable conditions existing in
that section for game.

_E.W. Nelson_.


Constitution of the Boone and Crockett Club

FOUNDED DECEMBER 1887.

Article I.

This Club shall be known as the Boone and Crockett Club.

Article II.

The objects of the Club shall be:

1. To promote manly sport with the rifle.

2. To promote travel and exploration in the wild and unknown, or but
partially known, portions of the country.

3. To work for the preservation of the large game of this country, and,
so far as possible, to further legislation for that purpose, and to
assist in enforcing the existing laws.

4. To promote inquiry into, and to record observations on, the habits
and natural history of the various wild animals.

5. To bring about among the members the interchange of opinions and
ideas on hunting, travel and exploration; on the various kinds of
hunting rifles; on the haunts of game animals, etc.

Article III.

No one shall be eligible for regular membership who shall not have
killed with the rifle, in fair chase, by still-hunting or otherwise, at
least one individual of each of three of the various kinds of American
large game.

Article IV.

Under the head of American large game are included the following
animals: Black or brown bear, grizzly bear, polar bear, buffalo (bison),
mountain sheep, woodland caribou, barren-ground caribou, cougar,
musk-ox, white goat, elk (wapiti), prong-horn antelope, moose, Virginia
deer, mule deer, and Columbian black-tail deer.

Article V.

The term "fair chase" shall not be held to include killing bear or
cougar in traps, nor "fire hunting," nor "crusting" moose, elk or deer
in deep snow, nor "calling" moose, nor killing deer by any other method
than fair stalking or still-hunting, nor killing game from a boat while
it is swimming in the water, nor killing the female or young of any
ruminant, except the female of white goat or of musk-ox.

Article VI.

This Club shall consist of not more than one hundred regular members,
and of such associate and honorary members as may be elected by the
Executive Committee. Associate members shall be chosen from those who by
their furtherance of the objects of the Club, or general qualifications,
shall recommend themselves to the Executive Committee. Associate and
honorary members shall be exempt from dues and initiation fees, and
shall not be entitled to vote.

Article VII.

