The _Region of the Steppes_, which covers all Southern Russia,
may be subdivided into two zones--an intermediate zone and that
of the Steppes proper. The Ante-Steppe of the preceding region and
the intermediate zone of the Steppes include those tracts where
the West-European climate struggles with the Asiatic, and where a
struggle is being carried on between the forest and the Steppe.

The Steppes proper are very fertile elevated plains, slightly undulated,
and intersected by numerous ravines which are dry in summer. The
undulations are scarcely apparent to the eye as it takes in a wide
prospect under a blazing sun and with a deep-blue sky overhead.
Not a tree is to be seen, the few woods and thickets being hidden
in the depressions and deep valleys of the rivers. On the thick
sheet of black earth by which the Steppe is covered a luxuriant
vegetation develops in spring; after the old grass has been burned
a bright green covers immense stretches, but this rapidly disappears
under the burning rays of the sun and the hot easterly winds. The
colouring of the Steppe changes as if by magic, and only the silvery
plumes of the _kovyl_ (_Stipa pennata_) wave under the wind, giving
the Steppe the aspect of a bright, yellow sea. For days together the
traveller sees no other vegetation; even this, however, disappears
as he nears the regions recently left dry from the Caspian, where
salted clays covered with a few _Salsolaceœ_, or mere sands, take
the place of the black earth. Here begins the Aral-Caspian desert.
The Steppe, however, is not so devoid of trees as at first sight
appears. Innumerable clusters of wild cherries, wild apricots, and
other deep-rooted shrubs grow in the depressions of the surface,
and on the slopes of the ravines, giving the Steppe that charm which
manifests itself in popular poetry. Unfortunately, the spread of
cultivation is fatal to these oases (they are often called "islands"
by the inhabitants); the axe and the plough ruthlessly destroy
them. The vegetation of the _poimy_ and _zaimischas_ in the marshy
bottoms of the ravines, and in the valleys of streams and rivers,
is totally different. The moist soil gives free development to
thickets of various willows, bordered with dense walls of worm-wood
and needle-bearing _Composita_, and interspersed with rich but
not extensive prairies harbouring a great variety of herbaceous
plants; while in the deltas of the Black Sea rivers impenetrable
masses of rush shelter a forest fauna. But cultivation rapidly
changes the physiognomy of the Steppe. The prairies are superseded
by wheat-fields, and flocks of sheep destroy the true steppe-grass
(_Stipa-pennata_), which retires farther east.

The _Circum-Mediterranean Region_ is represented by a narrow strip
of land on the south coast of the Crimea, where a climate similar
to that of the Mediterranean coast has permitted the development
of a flora closely resembling that of the valley of the Arno.

[Illustration: REVEL]

The fauna of European Russia does not very materially differ from
that of western Europe. In the forests not many animals which have
disappeared from western Europe have held their ground; while in
the Urals only a few--now Siberian, but formerly also European--are
met with. On the whole, Russia belongs to the same zoo-geographical
region as central Europe and northern Asia, the same fauna extending
in Siberia as far as the Yenisei and Lena. In south-eastern Russia,
however, towards the Caspian, we find a notable admixture of Asiatic
species, the deserts of that part of Russia belonging in reality
rather to the Aral-Caspian depression than to Europe.

For the zoo-geographer only three separate sub-regions appear on the
East-European plains--the _tundras_, including the Arctic islands,
the forest region, especially the coniferous part of it, and the
Ante-Steppe and Steppes of the black-earth region. The Ural mountains
might be distinguished as a fourth sub-region, while the south-coast
of the Crimea and Caucasus, as well as the Caspian deserts, have
their own individuality.

As for the adjoining seas, the fauna of the Arctic Ocean off the
Norwegian coast corresponds, in its western parts at least, to that
of the North Atlantic Gulf Stream. The White Sea and the Arctic
Ocean to the east of Svyatoi Nos belong to a separate zoological
region connected with, and hardly separable from, that part of
the Arctic Ocean which extends along the Siberian coast as far as
to about the Lena. The Black Sea, of which the fauna was formerly
little known but now appears to be very rich, belongs to the
Mediterranean region, slightly modified, while the Caspian partakes
of the characteristic fauna inhabiting the lakes and seas of the
Aral-Caspian depression.

In the region of the _tundras_ life has to contend with such
unfavourable conditions that it cannot be abundant. Still the reindeer
frequents it for its lichens, and on the drier slopes of the moraine
deposits four species of lemming, hunted by the _Canis lagopus_,
find quarters. Two species of the white partridge, the lark, one
_Plectrophanes_, two or three species of _Sylvia_, one _Phylloscopus_,
and the _Motacilla_ must be added. Numberless aquatic birds, however,
visit it for breeding purposes. Ducks, divers, geese, gulls, all the
Russian species of snipes and sandpipers, etc., cover the marshes
of the _tundras_, or the crags of the Lapland coast.

The forest region, and especially its coniferous portion, though
it has lost some of its representatives within historic times, is
still rich. The reindeer, rapidly disappearing, is now met with only
in Olonetz and Vologda; the _Cervus pygargus_ is found everywhere, and
reaches Novgorod. The weasel, the fox and the hare are exceedingly
common, as also the wolf and the bear in the north; but the glutton,
the lynx, and even the elk are rapidly disappearing. The wild boar
is confined to the basin of the Dwina, and the _Bison eropea_ to
the Bielovyezha forests. The sable has quite disappeared, being
found only on the Urals; the beaver is found at a few places in
Minsk, and the otter is very rare. On the other hand, the hare and
also the grey partridge, the hedgehog, the quail, the lark, the
rook, and the stork find their way into the coniferous region as
the forests are cleared. The avifauna is very rich; it includes all
the forest and garden birds which are known in western Europe, as
well as a very great variety of aquatic birds. Hunting and shooting
give occupation to a great number of persons. The reptiles are
few. As for fishes, all those of western Europe, except the carp,
are met with in the lakes and rivers in immense quantities, the
characteristic feature of the region being its wealth in _Coregoni_
and in _Salmonidœ_ generally.

