The greatest care is required in the insulating. The secondary is
sometimes wound in sections so as to keep those parts differing greatly
in potential far from each other. This prevents sparking, which would
destroy the insulation.

A make and break, often of the hammer and anvil type, is operated by the
coil. (See Circuit Breaker, Automatic.) As the current passes through
the primary it magnetizes the core. This attracts a little hammer which
normally resting on an anvil completes the circuit. The hammer as
attracted is lifted from the anvil and breaks the circuit. The soft iron
core at once parts with its magnetism and the hammer falls upon the
anvil again completing the circuit. This operation goes on rapidly, the
circuit being opened and closed in quick succession.

Every closing of the primary circuit tends to produce a reverse current
in the secondary, and every opening of the primary circuit tends to
produce a direct current in the secondary. Both are of extremely short
duration, and the potential difference of the two terminals of the
secondary may be very high if there are many times more turns in the
secondary than in the primary.

The extra currents interfere with the action of an induction coil. To
avoid their interference a condenser is used. This consists of two
series of sheets of tin foil. Leaves of paper alternate with the sheets
of tin-foil, the whole being built up into a little book. Each sheet of
tin-foil connects electrically with the sheet next but one to it. Thus
each leaf of a set is in connection with all others of the same set, but
is insulated from the others. One set of leaves of tin-foil connects
with the hammer, the other with the anvil. In large coils there may be
75 square feet of tin-foil in the condenser.

The action of the condenser is to dispose of the direct extra current.
When the primary circuit is opened this current passes into the
condenser, which at once discharges itself in the other direction
through the coil. This demagnetizes the core, and the action intensifies
and shortens the induced current. The condenser prevents sparking, and
in general improves the action of the coil.

Many details enter into the construction of coils, and many variations
in their construction obtain. Thus a mercury cup into which a plunger
dips often replaces the anvil and hammer.


135   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


The induction coil produces a rapid succession of sparks, which may
spring across an interval of forty inches. The secondary generally ends
in special terminals or electrodes between which the sparking takes
place. A plate of glass, two inches in thickness, can be pierced by
them. In the great Spottiswoode coil there are 280 miles of wire in the
secondary, and the wire is about No. 36 A.W.G.


Fig. 100. VERTICAL SECTION OF INDUCTION COIL.


Fig. l01. PLAN OF INDUCTION COIL CONNECTIONS.


Induction coils have quite extended use in electrical work. They are
used in telephone transmitters, their primary being in circuit with the
microphone, and their secondary with the line and receiving telephone.
In electric welding, and in the alternating current system they have
extended application. In all these cases they have no automatic circuit
breaker, the actuating current being of intermittent or alternating
type.


136   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


In the cuts the general construction of an induction coil is shown. In
the sectional elevation, Fig. 100, A, is the iron core; B is the primary
of coarse wire; C is a separating tube, which may be of pasteboard; D is
the secondary of fine wire; E, E are the binding posts connected to the
secondary; H, H are the heads or standards; K, K are the terminals of
the primary; F is the vibrating contact spring; G, a standard carrying
the contact screw; J is the condenser with wires, L, M, leading to it.

Referring to the plan, Fig. 101, H represents the primary coil; B and A
are two of the separate sheets of the condenser, each sheet with
projecting ears; G, G are the heads of the coil; the dark lines are
connections to the condenser. One set of sheets connects with the
primary coil at C, and also with the vibrating spring shown in plan and
in the elevation at F. The other set of sheets connects with the post,
carrying the contact screw. The other terminal of the primary runs to a
binding post E. F, in the plan is a binding post in connection with the
standard and contact screw.


Coil, Induction, Inverted.
An induction coil arranged to have a lower electro-motive force in the
secondary than in the primary. This is effected by having more
convolutions in the primary wire than in the secondary. Such coils in
practice are used with the alternating current and then do not include a
circuit breaker or condenser. They are employed in alternating current
system and in electric welding. (See Welding, Electric--Converter.)

In the cut an inverted coil, as constructed for electric welding is
shown. In it the primary coil is marked P; the secondary, merely a bar
of metal, is marked E, with terminals S, S; the heavy coils, I, of iron
wire are the core; K is a screw for regulating the clamps; J, Z is a
second one for the same purpose, while between D and D' the heat is
produced for welding the bars, B, B', held in the clamps, C, C'. It will
be seen how great may be the difference in turns between the single
circle of heavy copper rod or bar which is the secondary of the coil,
and the long coil of wire forming the primary.


Fig. 102. INVERTED INDUCTION COIL FOR ELECTRIC WELDING.


137   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Coil, Induction, Telephone.
An induction coil used in telephone circuits. It is placed in the box or
case near the transmitter. The primary is in circuit with the
microphone. The secondary is in circuit with the line and receiving
telephone. In the Bell telephone apparatus the primary of the induction
coil is wound with No. 18 to 24 A. W. G. wire to a resistance of 1/2
ohm; the secondary, with No. 36 wire to a resistance of 80 ohms. The
Edison telephone induction coil was wound with similar wires to a
resistance of 3 to 4 ohms and of 250 ohms respectively.


Coil, Magnetizing.
A coil of insulated wire for making magnets; and for experimental uses;
it has a short axis and central aperture of as small size as consistent
with the diameter of the bar to be magnetized, which has to pass through
it readily. The wire may be quite heavy, 2 or 3 millimeters (.08--.12
inch) thick, and is cemented together with carpenter's glue, or with
shellac or ethereal solution of gum copal. In use it is passed over the
bar a few times while a heavy current is going through it. It is used
for magic circles also. (See Circle, Magic.)


Fig. 103. MAGNETIZING COIL.


Coil, Resistance.
A coil constructed for the purpose of offering a certain resistance to a
steady current. This resistance may be for the purpose of carrying out
quantitative tests, as in Wheatstone bridge work (see Wheatstone's
Bridge), or simply to reduce the intensity of a current. For the first
class of work the coils are wound so as to prevent the creation of a
magnetic field. This is effected by first doubling the wire without
breaking it, and then starting at the bend the doubled wire, which is
insulated, is wound on a bobbin or otherwise until a proper resistance
is shown by actual measurement. The coils are generally contained or set
in closed boxes with ebonite tops. Blocks of brass are placed on the
top, and one end from one coil and one end from the next connect with
the same block. By inserting a plug, P, so as to connect any two blocks,
which have grooves reamed out for the purpose, the coil beneath will be
short circuited. German silver, platinoid or other alloy, q. v., is
generally the material of the wire. A great object is to have a wire
whose resistance will be unaffected by heat.


138   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Fig. 104. RESISTANCE COILS AND CONNECTIONS, SHOWING PLUG.


Coil, Rhumkorff.
The ordinary induction coil with circuit breaker, for use with original
direct and constant current, is thus termed. (See Coil, Induction.)

Synonym--Inductorium.


Coil, Ribbon.
A coil made of copper ribbon wound flatwise, often into a disc-like
shape, and insulated by tape or strips of other material intervening
between the successive turns.


Coils, Compensating.
Extra coils on the field magnets of dynamos or motors, which coils are
in series with the armature windings for the purpose of keeping the
voltage constant. In compound wound machines the regular series-wound
coil is thus termed. In a separately excited dynamo a coil of the same
kind in circuit with the armature may be used as a compensator.


Coils, Henry's.
An apparatus used in repeating a classic experiment in electro-magnetic
induction, due to Prof. Henry. It consists in a number of coils, the
first and last ones single, the intermediate ones connected in pairs,
and one of one pair placed on the top of one of the next pair. On
opening or closing the circuit of an end coil the induced effect goes
through the series and is felt in the circuit of the other end coil.
Prof. Henry extended the series so as to include seven successive
inductions, sometimes called inductions of the first, second, third and
other orders. Frequently ribbon coils (see Coil, Ribbon,) are used in
these experiments.


Coils, Sectioned.
A device for prolonging the range of magnetic attraction. It consists of
a series of magnetizing coils traversed by an iron plunger. As it passes
through them, the current is turned off the one in the rear or passing
to the rear and turned into the next one in advance. The principle was
utilized in one of Page's electric motors about 1850, and later by
others. The port-electric railroad, q. v., utilizes the same principle.


139  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Collecting Ring.
In some kinds of generators instead of the commutator a pair of
collecting rings of metal, insulated from the machine and from each
other, are carried on the armature shaft. A brush, q. v., presses on
each, and the circuit terminals connect to these two brushes. Such rings
are employed often on alternating current generators, where the current
does not have to be changed or commuted. Collecting rings with their
brushes are used also where a current has to be communicated to a
revolving coil or circuit as in the magnetic car wheel, the cut of which
is repeated here. The coil of wire surrounding the wheel and rotating
with it has to receive current. This it receives through the two
stationary brushes which press upon two insulated metallic rings,
surrounding the shaft. The terminals of the coil connect one to each
ring. Thus while the coil rotates it constantly receives current, the
brushes being connected to the actuating circuit.


Fig. 105. MAGNETIC CAR WHEEL SHOWING COLLECTING RINGS AND BRUSHES.


Collector.
(a) A name for the brush, q. v., in mechanical electric generators, such
as dynamos, a pair of which collectors or brushes press on the
commutator or collecting rings, and take off the current.

(b) The pointed connections leading to the prime conductor on a static
machine for collecting the electricity; often called combs. The points
of the combs or collectors face the statically charged rotating glass
plate or cylinder of the machine.


Colombin.
The insulating material between the carbons in a Jablochkoff candle or
other candle of that type. Kaolin was originally used. Later a mixture
of two parts calcium sulphate (plaster of Paris) and one part barium
sulphate (barytes) was substituted.

The colombin was three millimeters (.12 inch) wide, and two millimeters
(.08 inch) thick. (See Candle, Jablochkoff.)


Column, Electric.
An old name for the voltaic pile, made up of a pile of discs of copper
and zinc, with flannel discs, wet with salt solution or dilute acid,
between each pair of plates.


140   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Comb.
A bar from which a number of teeth project, like the teeth of a comb. It
is used as a collector of electricity from the plate of a frictional or
influence electric machine; it is also used in a lightning arrester to
define a path of very high resistance but of low self-induction, for the
lightning to follow to earth.


Communicator.
The instrument by which telegraph signals are transmitted is sometimes
thus termed.


Commutator.
In general an apparatus for changing. It is used on electric current
generators, and motors, and on induction coils, and elsewhere, for
changing the direction of currents, and is of a great variety of types.

Synonym--Commuter (but little used).


Fig. 106. DYNAMO OR MOTOR COMMUTATOR.


Commutator Bars.
The metallic segments of a dynamo or motor commutator.


Commutator, Flats in.
A wearing away or lowering in level of one or more metallic segments of
a commutator. They are probably due in many cases to sparking, set up by
periodic springing in the armature mounting, or by defective commutator
connections.


Commutator of Current Generators and Motors.
In general a cylinder, formed of alternate sections of conducting and
non-conducting material, running longitudinally or parallel with the
axis. Its place is on the shaft of the machine, so that it rotates
therewith. Two brushes, q. v., or pieces of conducting material, press
upon its surface.


141  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


As a part of electric motors and generators, its function is to collect
the currents produced by the cutting of lines of force so as to cause
them all to concur to a desired result. The cut shows the simplest form
of commutator, one with but two divisions. Its object may be to enable a
current of constant direction to be taken from a rotating armature, in
which the currents alternate or change direction once in each rotation.
It is carried by the shaft A of the armature and rotates with it. It
consists of two leaves, S S, to which the terminals of the armature are
connected. Two springs, W W, the terminals of the outer circuit, press
against the leaves. The springs which do this take off the current. It
is so placed, with reference to the springs and armature, that just as
the current changes in direction, each leaf changes from one spring to
the other. Thus the springs receive constant direction currents. The
changing action of this commutator appears in its changing the character
of the current from alternating to constant. Were two insulated
collecting rings used instead of a commutator, the current in the outer
circuit would be an alternating one. On some dynamos the commutator has
a very large number of leaves.

Taking the Gramme ring armature, there must be as many divisions of the
commutator as there are connections to the coils. In this case the
function of the commutator is simply to lessen friction, for the brushes
could be made to take current from the coils directly outside of the
periphery of the ring.


Commutator, Split Ring.
A two-division commutator for a motor; it consists of two segments of
brass or copper plate, bent to arcs of a circle, and attached to an
insulating cylinder. They are mounted on the revolving spindle, which
carries the armature, and acts as a two part commutator. For an example
of its application, see Armature, Revolving, Page's. (See also Fig.
107.)


Fig. 107. SECTION OF SPLIT RING COMMUTATOR, WITH BRUSHES.


Compass.
An apparatus for utilizing the directive force of the earth upon the
magnetic needle. It consists of a circular case, within which is poised
a magnetized bar of steel. This points approximately to the north, and
is used on ships and elsewhere to constantly show the direction of the
magnetic meridian. Two general types are used. In one the needle is
mounted above a fixed "card" or dial, on which degrees or points of the
compass, q. v., are inscribed. In the other the card is attached to the
needle and rotates with it. The latter represents especially the type
known as the mariner's compass. (See Compass, Mariner's--Compass,
Spirit, and other titles under compass, also Magnetic Axis--Magnetic
Elements.) The needle in good compasses carries for a bearing at its
centre, a little agate cup, and a sharp brass pin is the point of
support.


Compass, Azimuth.
A compass with sights on one of its diameters; used in determining the
magnetic bearing of objects.


142   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Compass Card.
The card in a compass; it is circular in shape, and its centre coincides
with the axis of rotation of the magnetic needle; on it are marked the
points of the compass, at the ends generally of star points. (See
Compass, Points of the.) It may be fixed, and the needle may be poised
above it, or it may be attached to the needle and rotate with it.


Compass, Declination.
An instrument by which the magnetic declination of any place may be
determined. It is virtually a transit instrument and compass combined,
the telescope surmounting the latter. In the instrument shown in the
cut, L is a telescope mounted by its axis, X, in raised journals with
vernier, K, and arc x, for reading its vertical angle, with level n. The
azimuth circle, Q, R, is fixed. A vernier, V is carried by the box, A,
E, and both turn with the telescope. A very light lozenge-shaped
magnetic needle, a, b, is pivoted in the exact centre of the graduated
circles, Q R, and M. The true meridian is determined by any convenient
astronomical method, and the telescope is used for the purpose. The
variation of the needle from the meridian thus determined gives the
magnetic declination.


FIG. 108. DECLINATION COMPASS.


Compass, Inclination.
A magnetic needle mounted on a horizontal axis at its centre of gravity,
so as to be free to assume the dip, or magnetic inclination, when placed
in the magnetic meridian. It moves over the face of a vertical graduated
circle, and the frame also carries a spirit level and graduated
horizontal circle. In use the frame is turned until the needle is
vertical. Then the axis of suspension of the needle is in the magnetic
meridian. The vertical circle is then turned through 90° of the horizon,
which brings the plane of rotation of the needle into the magnetic
meridian, when it assumes the inclination of the place.


143  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Compass, Mariner's.
A compass distinguished by the card being attached to and rotating with
the needle. A mark, the "lubber's mark" of the sailors is made upon the
case. This is placed so that the line connecting it, and the axis of
rotation of the card is exactly in a plane, passing through the keel of
the ship. Thus however the ship may be going, the point of the card
under or in line with the "lubber's mark," shows how the ship is
pointing. The case of the mariner's compass is often bowl-shaped and
mounted in gimbals, a species of universal joint, so as to bc always
horizontal. (See Compass, Spirit-Gimbals.)


FIG. 109. MARINER'S COMPASS.


Compass, Points of the.
The circle of the horizon may bc and is best referred to angular
degrees. It has also been divided into thirty-two equiangular and named
points. A point is 11.25°. The names of the points are as follows:
North, North by East, North North-east, North-east by North, North-east,
North-east by East, East North-east, East by North, East, East by South,
East South-east, South-east by East, South-east, South-east by South,
South South-east, South by East, South, South by West, South South-west,
South-west by South, South-west, South-west by West, West South-west,
West by South, West, West by North, West North-west, North-west by West,
North-west, North West by North, North North-west, North by West. They
are indicated by their initials as N. N. W., North North-west, N. by W.,
North by West.


Compass, Spirit.
A form of mariner's compass. The bowl or case is hermetically sealed and
filled with alcohol or other nonfreezing liquid. The compass card is
made with hollow compartments so as nearly to float. In this way the
friction of the pivot or point of support is greatly diminished, and the
compass is far more sensitive.


Compass, Surveyor's.
A species of theodolite; a telescope with collimation lines, mounted
above a compass, so as to be applicable for magnetic surveys. Its use is
to be discouraged on account of the inaccuracy and changes in
declination of the magnetic needle.


144   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Compensating Resistances.
In using a galvanometer shunt the total resistance of the circuit is
diminished so that in some cases too much current flows through it; in
such case additional resistance, termed as above, is sometimes
introduced in series. The shunt in parallel with the galvanometer is
thus compensated for, and the experimental or trial circuit does not
take too much current.


Complementary Distribution.
Every distribution of electricity has somewhere a corresponding
distribution, exactly equal to it of opposite electricity; the latter is
the complimentary distribution to the first, and the first distribution
is also complimentary to it.


Component.
A force may always be represented diagrammatically by a straight line,
terminating in an arrow-head to indicate the direction, and of length to
represent the intensity of the force. The line may always be assumed to
represent the diagonal of a parallelogram, two of whose sides are
represented by lines starting from the base of the arrow, and of length
fixed by the condition that the original force shall be the diagonal of
the parallelogram of which they are two contiguous sides; such lines are
called components, and actually represent forces into which the original
force may always be resolved. The components can have any direction.
Thus the vertical component of a horizontal force is zero; its
horizontal component is equal to itself. Its 450 component is equal to
the square root of one-half of its square.


Condenser.
An appliance for storing up electrostatic charges: it is also called a
static accumulator. The telegraphic condenser consists of a box packed
full of sheets of tinfoil. Between every two sheets is a sheet of
paraffined paper, or of mica. The alternate sheets of tinfoil are
connected together, and each set has its own binding post. (See
Accumulator, Electrostatic.)


Condenser, Sliding.
An apparatus representing a Leyden jar whose coatings can be slid past
each other. This diminishes or increases the facing area, and
consequently in almost exactly similar ratio diminishes or increases the
capacity of the condenser.


Conductance.
The conducting power of a given mass of specified material of specified
shape and connections. Conductance varies in cylindrical or prismatic
conductors, inversely as the length, directly as the cross-section, and
with the conductivity of the material. Conductance is an attribute of
any specified conductor, and refers to its shape, length and other
factors. Conductivity is an attribute of any specified material without
direct reference to its shape, or other factors.


Conduction.
The process or act of conducting a current.


145  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Conductivity.
The relative power of conducting the electric current possessed by
different substances. A path for the current through the ether is opened
by the presence of a body of proper quality, and this quality, probably
correlated to opacity, is termed conductivity. There is no perfect
conductor, all offer some resistance, q. v., and there is hardly any
perfect non-conductor. It is the reverse and reciprocal of resistance.


Conductivity, Specific.
The reciprocal of specific resistance. (See Resistance--Specific.)


Conductivity, Unit of.
The reciprocal of the ohm; it is a more logical unit, but has never been
generally adopted; as a name the title mho (or ohm written backwards)
has been suggested by Sir William Thomson, and provisionally adopted.


Conductivity, Variable.
The conductivity for electric currents of conductors varies with their
temperature, with varying magnetization, tension, torsion and
compression.


Conductor.
In electricity, anything that permits the passage of an electric
current. Any disturbance in the ether takes the form of waves because
the ether has restitutive force or elasticity. In a conductor, on the
other hand, this force is wanting; it opens a path through the ether and
a disturbance advances through it from end to end with a wave front, but
with no succession of waves. This advance is the beginning of what is
termed a current. It is, by some theorists, attributed to impulses given
at all points along the conductor through the surrounding ether, so that
a current is not merely due to an end thrust. If ether waves preclude a
current on account of their restitutive force, ether waves cannot be
maintained in a conductor, hence conductors should be opaque to light,
for the latter is due to ether waves. This is one of the more practical
every day facts brought out in Clerk Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of
light. The term conductor is a relative one, as except a vacuum there is
probably no substance that has not some conducting power. For relative
conducting power, tables of conductivity, q. v., should be consulted.
The metals beginning with silver are the best conductors, glass is one
of the worst.

[Transcriber's note: See "ether" for contemporary comments on this now
discarded concept.]


Conductor, Anti-Induction.
A current conductor arranged to avoid induction from other lines. Many
kinds have been invented and made the subject of patents. A fair
approximation may be attained by using a through metallic circuit and
twisting the wires composing it around each other. Sometimes concentric
conductors, one a wire and the other a tube, are used, insulated, one
acting as return circuit for the other.


Conductor, Conical.
A prime conductor of approximately conical shape, but rounded on all
points and angles. Its potential is highest at the point.


146   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Conductor, Imbricated.
A conductor used in dynamo armatures for avoiding eddy currents, made by
twisting together two or more strips of copper.


Conductor, Prime.
A body often cylindrical or spherical in shape, in any case with no
points or angles, but rounded everywhere, whose surface, if the
conductor itself is not metallic, is made conducting by tinfoil or gold
leaf pasted over it. It is supported on an insulating stand and is used
to collect or receive and retain static charges of electricity.


Conductors, Equivalent.
Conductors of identical resistance. The quotient of the length divided
by the product of the conductivity and cross-section must be the same in
each, if each is of uniform diameter.


Conjugate. adj.
Conjugate coils or conductors are coils placed in such relation that the
lines of force established by one do not pass through the coils of the
other. Hence variations of current in one produce no induced currents in
the other.


Connect. v.
To bring two ends of a conductor together, or to bring one end of a
conductor in connection with another, or in any way to bring about an
electrical connection.


Connector.
A sleeve with screws or other equivalent device for securing the ends of
wires in electrical contact. A binding-post, q. v., is an example.
Sometimes wire spring-catches are used, the general idea being a device
that enables wires to be connected or released at will without breaking
off or marring their ends. The latter troubles result from twisting
wires together.


Consequent Poles.
A bar magnet is often purposely or accidentally magnetized so as to have
both ends of the same polarity, and the center of opposite polarity. The
center is said to comprise two consequent poles. (See Magnet,
Anomalous.)


Conservation of Electricity.
As every charge of electricity has its equal and opposite charge
somewhere, near or far, more or less distributed, the sum of negative is
equal always to the sum of positive electrical charges. For this
doctrine the above title was proposed by Lippman.


Contact Breaker.
Any contrivance for closing a circuit, and generally for opening and
closing in quick succession. An old and primitive form consisted of a
very coarsely cut file. This was connected to one terminal, and the
other terminal was drawn over its face, making and breaking contact as
it jumped from tooth to tooth. (See Circuit Breaker--do. Automatic,
etc.--do. Wheel-do. Pendulum.)


147   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Contact, Electric.
A contact between two conductors, such that a current can flow through
it. It may be brought about by simple touch or impact between the ends
or terminals of a circuit, sometimes called a dotting contact, or by a
sliding or rubbing of one terminal on another, or by a wheel rolling on
a surface, the wheel and surface representing the two terminals.

There are various descriptions of contact, whose names are
self-explanatory. The term is applied to telegraph line faults also, and
under this, includes different descriptions of contact with neighboring
lines, or with the earth.


Contact Electricity.
When two dissimilar substances are touched they assume different
electric potentials. If conductors, their entire surfaces are affected;
if dielectrics, only the surfaces which touch each other. (See Contact
Theory.)


Contact Faults.
A class of faults often called contacts, due to contact of the conductor
of a circuit with another conductor. A full or metallic contact is where
practically perfect contact is established; a partial contact and
intermittent contact are self-explanatory.


Contact Point.
A point, pin or stud, often of platinum, arranged to come in contact
with a contact spring, q. v., or another contact point or surface, under
any determined conditions.


Contact Potential Difference.
The potential difference established by the contact of two dissimilar
substances according to the contact theory, q. v.


Contact Series.
An arrangement or tabulation of substances in pairs, each intermediate
substance appearing in two pairs, as the last member of the first, and
first member of the succeeding pair, with the statement of the potential
difference due to their contact, the positively electrified substance
coming first. The following table of some contact potentials is due to
Ayrton and Perry:
CONTACT SERIES.
Difference of Potential in Volts.
Zinc--Lead        .210
Lead--Tin         .069
Tin--Iron         .313
Iron--Copper      .146
Copper--Platinum  .238
Platinum-Carbon   .113

The sum of these differences is 1.089, which is the contact potential
between zinc and carbon.

Volta's Law refers to this and states that--
  The difference of potential produced by the contact of any two
  substances is equal to the sum of the differences of potentials
  between the intervening substances in the contact series.

It is to be remarked that the law should no longer be restricted to or
stated only for metals.


148   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Contact-spring.
A spring connected to one lead of an electric circuit, arranged to press
against another spring, or contact point, q. v., under any conditions
determined by the construction of the apparatus. (See Bell,
Electric--Coil, Induction.)


Contact Theory.
A theory devised to explain electrification, the charging of bodies by
friction, or rubbing, and the production of current by the voltaic
battery. It holds that two bodies, by mere contact become oppositely
electrified. If such contact is increased in extent by rubbing together,
the intensity of their electrification is increased. This
electrification is accounted for by the assumption of different kinetic
energy, or energy of molecular motion, possessed by the two bodies;
there being a loss and gain of energy, on the two sides respectively,
the opposite electrifications are the result. Then when separated, the
two bodies come apart oppositely electrified.

The above accounts for the frictional production of electricity. In the
voltaic battery, a separation of the atoms of hydrogen and oxygen, and
their consolidation into molecules occurs, and to such separation and
the opposite electrification of the electrodes by the oxygen and
hydrogen, the current is attributed, because the hydrogen goes to one
electrode, and the oxygen to the other, each giving up or sharing its
own charge with the electrodes to which it goes. If zinc is touched to
copper, the zinc is positively and the copper negatively electrified. In
the separation of hydrogen and oxygen, the hydrogen is positively and
the oxygen negatively electrified. In the battery, the current is due to
the higher contact difference of oxygen and hydrogen compared to that
between zinc and copper. It will be seen that the two contact actions in
a battery work against each other, and that the current is due to a
differential contact action. The zinc in a battery is electrified
negatively because the negative electrification of the oxygen is greater
in amount than its own positive electrification due to contact with the
copper.


Contractures.
A muscular spasm or tetanus due to the passage of a current of
electricity; a term in electro-therapeutics.


Controlling Field.
The magnetic or electro-magnetic field, which is used in galvanometers
to control the magnetic needle, tending to restore it to a definite
position whenever it is turned therefrom. It may be the earth's field or
one artificially produced.


Controlling Force.
In galvanometers and similar instruments, the force used to bring the
needle or indicator back to zero. (See Controlling
Field--Electro-Magnetic Control--Gravity Control--Magnetic
Control--Spring Control.)


149   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.


Convection, Electric.
The production of blasts or currents of air (convection streams) from
points connected to statically charged conductors. The term is sometimes
applied to electric convection of heat. (See Convection of Heat,
Electric.)

