    "_The Austin Monument_," he says, "is emblematical of Christ
    and of the Resurrection, according to the pious fancy of the
    devout Mr. Austin, who set it up at first. First, there is the
    representation of a rock, upon which is writ 'Petra erat
    X.T.S.', _i.e._, the Rock was Christ. Down this rock runs a
    stream of water, and through this same rock is creeping a
    serpent; whereby he strips off his old skin, which hangs on
    that part which is not yet got through. At the foot of this
    rock, and out of it, grows up standing corn, on which is a
    label with these words, 'Si non moriatur, non reviviscit,'
    _i.e._, if it dieth not, it liveth not again. Underneath this
    corn, upon the basis, is this significant motto, 'Nos sevit,
    fovit, lavit, coget, renovabit,' _i.e._, He hath sown,
    cherished, washed us, and He shall gather us together, and
    renew us. Upon the top of this rock standeth an angel; in his
    left hand a sickle, his right hand pointing up towards the sun
    shining in his glory, with a label upon the lower rays of it,
    'Sol Justitiae,' _i.e._, the Sun of Righteousness. On the
    right and left sides of this monument are instruments of
    husbandry hanging by a riband out of a death's head, as
    ploughs, whips, yokes, rakes, spades, flails, harrows,
    shepherds' crooks, scythes, etc., over which is writ, 'Vos
    estis Dei Agricultura,' _i.e._, ye are God's husbandry. On the
    outside of these, on the right and left, are two harvest men
    with wings, the one with a fork, the other with a rake behind
    him. They are in light garments, sitting, and leaning their
    heads upon their hands, their elbows resting upon their knees,
    as weary and tired, and resting after their harvest work; and
    having straw hats on, very comely; underneath them these
    words, 'Messores congregabunt,' _i.e._, the reapers shall
    gather. Under all this is a winnowing fan, within which is the
    representation of a sheet of parchment, as it were, stretched
    upon it; on which is writ the inscription."

The inscription (Latin) agrees in its figurative language with the
character of the monument. It practically states that William Austin
had the tomb constructed, while he was yet alive, as a burial-place
for his wife, his mother (Lady Clarke), and himself, and that the
three were laid there in succession in 1623, 1626, and 1633. William
Austin was a barrister, who wrote a number of devotional pieces in
verse and prose. He died on 16th January, 1633, and his second wife
published them in 1635, "as a surviving monument of some part of the
great worth of her ever-honoured husband." The son William, like his
father a poet and a lawyer, was also buried at St. Saviour's.

Another noteworthy monument is that on the north wall to =Lionel
Lockyer=, inventor and patentee of the miraculous pills, "Radiis Solis
Extractae," to be taken early in the morning against fogs, contagious
airs, and all diseases known and unknown, to improve personal beauty,
and make old age delightful. The glowing epitaph of twelve lines is at
once a eulogy on the man, and a bold advertisement of the medicine.
Lockyer died on 26th April, 1672. An air of sanctimonious benevolence
will be noticed on the face of the recumbent doctor--probably a
faithful portrait--not unlike the expression given to the quack doctor
in one of Hogarth's famous pictures. The face of the cherub above
wears a look of intense agony, which frivolous people are wont to
attribute to the panacea. Higher up on the same wall there is a
Hatchment, with the armorial bearings of the person to whom it refers,
and the motto _Resurgam_. The conspicuous place and large characters
look as if specially chosen with reference to the fabric, to which the
word may well be applied.

On the east wall hangs an escutcheon of the arms of Queen Anne, with
the motto _Semper eadem_. The arms seem to have been painted over some
previous heraldic achievement, which includes the figures of "Justice"
and "Mercy," or two similar characters, standing on a platform in the
middle of a Rotunda. There is a peculiarity also in the omission of
the year, which is usually given with the Royal Arms hung up in
churches. The escutcheon is said to have been brought from the
neighbouring Sessions Court, and set up in the first instance in the
choir, to commemorate the visit of Queen Anne, when she came to hear
Dr. Sacheverell. Appearances seem to show that it was repainted, and
the Queen's initials inserted, to suit the occasion.

The =South Transept=.--The solid panels, noticed outside as
diminishing the effect of the great south window, are accounted for in
the interior, where the mouldings of two lofty arches occupy the wall,
their apices reaching to the window sill. These the restorer has
wisely left intact, and the window, seen from within, appears in
admirable proportion, and well suited to its place. It is of five
lights, and occupies the entire breadth of the transept. The style is
described by the architect, Sir Arthur Blomfield, as "Transitional
between Flowing Decorated and Perpendicular." Presented by Sir
Frederick Wigan, Bart., in memory of his daughter, the glazing of this
fine window was entrusted to Mr. C.E. Kempe. He has taken as his
subject the "Tree of Jesse," as a connecting link between the
scripture subjects represented elsewhere, and the modern historical
windows, whether commemorating distinguished clergy or laity of the
Catholic Church.

There was formerly a doorway cut through one of the arches beneath
this window. The space is now filled up, restoring the arcading to its
original state, and the entrance transferred to the eastern wall,
where the inner porch occupies the space beneath the organ front.
There are three windows above, of three lights each, corresponding
with those on the opposite side, except in the tracery. The window
over the door, as well as that facing it, is in memory of Mr. Henry
Wood, Warden of the Great Account (1899-1900). The six divisions in
each contain the same number of figures from the Old Testament, viz.,
in the eastern window, Enoch, Noah, Moses, Abraham, Jacob, and Joseph;
and in the western, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Micah, Hosea, David, Ezekiel.
Both these windows are due to Sir Frederick Wigan, who presented them
in 1900.

Next to the "Wood" window, on the western side, there is another fine
one to the memory of Elizabeth Newcomen, a great benefactress to the
neighbourhood, buried in the church in 1675.[32]

This window came from the Governors and Scholars, past and present, of
the school which she founded, and from the parishioners. The glass is
by Kempe. The figures in the upper division are St. John Baptist,
Elijah, and Malachi; and in the lower, Zechariah, Solomon, and St.
Elizabeth, the last a tribute to the lady's own Christian name.

It will be seen from this description that there are three windows
awaiting subjects (and donors) in the south transept, two on the
eastern, and one on the western side. The whole series is intended to
illustrate the Gospel genealogy and the Incarnation, in continuation
of the idea suggested in the Jesse Tree.

The most important monuments in the south transepts are those of John
Bingham, Richard Benefeld, William Emerson, and the Rev. Thomas Jones.

The "Bingham" monument (1625) was formerly in the Magdalene Church,
whence it was removed to the west side of this transept when the
church was destroyed. An arched recess, flanked by consoles, contains
a half-length coloured effigy of the deceased, in gown and ruff. Below
this is a panel, surmounted by arches and supported by pilasters,
enclosing a tablet, with the inscription to John Bingham, Sadler to
Queen Elizabeth and James I. The spandrels of the arch above the
figure contain the arms of the City of London and the Sadlers'
Company. The family arms surmount the whole. Bingham is quoted in the
inscription as "a good benefactor to the parish and free school";
besides which he was one of the Trustees to whom the church was
conveyed by James I, and we have to thank him and his _confrères_ that
it has not gone the way of the Priory buildings formerly surrounding
it.

The "Benefeld" monument (1615) is chiefly interesting for its quaint
Latin epitaph. This speaks of his remains as purified by the
frankincense, myrrh, amber, etc., which symbolise the discipline of
life.

William Emerson and his family, ancestors of the better known Ralph
Waldo, were also good benefactors, especially to the poor of the
parish, who still enjoy the pensions founded by their bounty. The
inscription on William Emerson's monument (1575) describes him as
having "lived and died an honest man," and concludes with the warning,
_Ut sum sic eris_, illustrated by a small _memento mori_, in the form
of a skeleton, recumbent on the base.

An ornamental marble tablet (1762), on the south wall, commemorates
the Rev. Thomas Jones, who died of a fever contracted during his
parochial visitings, and was buried in a vault in the "Little Chapel
of Our Lady." He was chaplain at St. Saviour's from 1753 till he died
at the early age of thirty-three. A faithful and zealous evangelical
pastor at a period of general debility in the Church of England, he
was hampered throughout his ministrations by the governing body, who
not only had the right of selecting their ministers, but exercised a
jealous censorship on their teaching and practice, when they showed
any tendency to "unsoundness" or undue enthusiasm. Above the tablet
containing the inscription there is a bust of Mr. Jones, in the
clerical dress and necktie of his date, with a cherub on each side.

The architectural differences between the north and south transepts
are largely accounted for by the rebuilding of the latter, in the
fifteenth century, by Cardinal Beaufort.

On a pier by the transept door his work is commemorated in a
sculptured and coloured representation of his arms--the fleur-de-lis
of France, quartered with the lions of England--surmounted by a
cardinal's hat, with its tasselled strings, twisted into a
true-lover's knot, pendent on either side.

   [Illustration: ARMS OF CARDINAL BEAUFORT.
   _From "Church Bells."_]

Henry Beaufort, born in 1377, was a natural son of John of Gaunt by
Catherine, widow of Sir Hugh Swynford. His parents were married in
1396, and their issue legitimated by Richard II in the following year;
but the bastardy is supposed to be indicated in the _bordure compony_
surrounding the shield. Henry Beaufort was translated to Winchester in
1404, in succession to William Wykeham. He was raised to the
cardinalate in 1426, and died in 1447. Among the famous marriages that
have taken place in the church, perhaps the most famous is that
between James I of Scotland and the Cardinal's niece, Joan Beaufort,
in the year 1423, when the wedding banquet was served in the adjacent
Bishop of Winchester's palace.

In the restoration by Sir Arthur Blomfield, the windows of both
transepts were rebuilt, the pointed roofs raised to their old level,
and the walls underpinned and refaced (externally) with Box Ground and
Bath stone, in place of the inferior material employed in 1830, care
being taken to place the stone in the natural direction of the strata.

All whitewash and plaster facing have been stripped off the walls
throughout the old parts of the church, to make the restoration as
complete as possible, not only in the purity of the new work, but in
the removal of what was fictitious and incongruous from the old.

   [Illustration: THE DIOCESE OF SOUTHWARK.]


FOOTNOTES:

[22] "When Dr. Sacheverell was at Lichfield (in 1712) Johnson was not
quite three years old. My grandfather Hammond observed him at the
Cathedral perched upon his father's shoulders, listening and gaping at
the much celebrated preacher. Mr. Hammond asked Mr. Johnson how he
could possibly think of bringing such an infant to church, and in the
midst of so great a crowd. He answered, because it was impossible to
keep him at home; for, young as he was, he believed he had caught the
public spirit and zeal for Sacheverell, and would have stayed for ever
in the church, satisfied with beholding him."--Boswell's "Life of
Johnson," Chap. I.

[23] Bede informs us that St. Paulinus baptized a number of people in
the Rivers Glen (= Bowent) and Swale, in Yorkshire. ("Eccles. Hist.,"
Book II, Chap. xiv.) The latter of these incidents is supposed to be
here depicted.

[24] Dr. Thompson gives a selection from the long list of subscribers,
which includes, besides nobility and clergy, many of the leading
actors, dramatic critics, and novelists of the day--showing the
widespread interest taken in the memorial.

[25] Edmund Shakespeare is described in the Burial Register as "a
Player," to which the Monthly Account adds that he was "buried in the
church with a forenoon knell of the great bell," costing 20_s._ (_Vide_
Dr. Thompson's "History.")

[26] The present elevation of the altar at St. Saviour's has been
criticised as above the level which a strict adherence to precedent,
here and elsewhere, required.

[27] _E.g._, Christ Church Priory, St. Alban's Abbey, All Souls',
Oxford, and Winchester Cathedral.

[28] See an interesting article signed "E.I.C." (E.J. Carlos), in the
"Gentleman's Magazine" for 1834, Part i, pp. 151-154.

[29] In Pennant "History of London" (1790), and Moss and Nightingale's
"History and Antiquities of St. Saviour's Church" (1817-1818), the
retro-choir is spoken of as "The Chapel of the Virgin Mary," in
distinction from that then known as "the Bishop's Chapel."

[30] In Seymour's "History" (1734), written when the figure was
standing upright, it is described as "new painted and flourished up,
and looking somewhat dreadful."

In Pennant's "History of London" (vol. i, edit. 1801), it is said to
have been removed from the north transept to make room for the Lockyer
monument (1672), and then set up against the north wall.

[31] For full particulars of the organ the reader is referred to the
specification in the Appendix, as furnished by the builders, Messrs.
Lewis and Co., Limited, Ferndale Road, Brixton, S.W.

[32] The veneration in which her name is held is further attested in
the parish, where the old street in the Borough, till recent years
known as King Street, has been renamed Newcomen Street.


CHAPTER IV

THE DIOCESE OF SOUTHWARK


The two dioceses with which St. Saviour's Church and parish have
hitherto been associated are Winchester and Rochester. The former was
originally one of the largest in England, extending as it did in one
direction from the south of London to the Channel Islands; the latter
the smallest of all, covering only a portion of the county of Kent.
Various changes have been made from time to time in the area of both
in attempts to equalise the duties of their Bishops, and to meet other
altering conditions. Of these changes the first that concerns us was
that made in August, 1877, when the parishes wholly or partly within
the parliamentary divisions of East and Mid Surrey (with two
exceptions) were transferred from the dioceses of Winchester and
London to Rochester. The Borough of Southwark, including St. Saviour's
Church, was thus brought from the jurisdiction of the first to the
last of these dioceses. In the following year the portion of Surrey
included in the transfer was formed into the new Archdeaconry of
Southwark; and a few months later (August, 1878) the patronage of the
benefices thus transferred, and hitherto held by the Bishops of London
and Winchester, was vested in the Bishop of Rochester. In 1879, in
1886, and again in 1901, the Rural Deaneries of Rochester were
rearranged, thus shifting more or less the boundaries of the Southwark
Archdeaconry. But the area of the Rochester Diocese was left
undisturbed till 1904, when "the Southwark and Birmingham Bishoprics
Act" of that year allowed the Diocese of Southwark to be formed out of
it. St. Saviour's had been popularly known as a _pro_-Cathedral for
some years previous to 1905, when it was formally constituted the
Cathedral of Southwark. The architecture of the fabric, with its long
history and associations, had long pointed to this fine church for the
purpose, for which it was further prepared by Sir Arthur Blomfield's
restoration, begun in 1890.

Dr. Anthony Wilson Thorold was appointed to the See of Rochester in
1877, and translated to Winchester in 1891. It was, therefore, in his
time that the first diocesan changes affecting St. Saviour's were
made, and the restoration of the church was actively taken in hand. By
far the most important part of this work was the rebuilding of the
nave, which he had the satisfaction of seeing well advanced before his
translation. Some of his predecessors had become alive to the
necessity of reducing the onerous duties of the See, but it was left
to him to give effect to their wishes by the creation of the
Archdeaconry of Southwark, with an eye to its forming the nucleus of a
separate diocese. His successor, Dr. Randall Thomas Davidson, now
Archbishop of Canterbury, lent his full energies to the work thus
begun, in which he was ably supported by the Suffragan Bishop of
Southwark, Dr. Huyshe Yeatman-Biggs, consecrated in 1891 and promoted
to the See of Worcester in 1905 in consequence of the episcopal
changes brought about by the Act of Parliament just mentioned. Before
Dr. Davidson's removal to Winchester in 1895, besides supervising the
restoration of Rochester Cathedral, he was able to do a good work more
directly concerning the Southwark Diocese, in the erection of the
Bishop's House by Kennington Park. The funds were provided by the
Ecclesiastical Commissioners from the sale of Danbury Palace, hitherto
the residence of the Bishops of Rochester, but now disposed of as
inaccessible and otherwise inconvenient. In place of it the new house
was built in the heart of the most thickly peopled part of the
diocese, within the Southwark Archdeaconry, and probably in view of
its ultimately becoming the residence of the Bishop of Southwark. Dr.
Davidson himself was not destined to occupy it, as it was not finished
till he was on the eve of translation. On 12th November, 1895, Edward
Stuart Talbot was enthroned as his successor in the See of Rochester,
and at once took up his abode at Kennington, where he will continue to
live at this easy centre of communication between him and his people
now that he is Bishop of Southwark.

It will be seen from the accompanying map that the new diocese has
been made to include the whole of the county of London south of the
Thames, and the Archdeaconry of Kingston, thus reducing the area of
Rochester to about half its previous size and relieving it of its
most thickly crowded portion.

The population of the diocese of Rochester at the census of 1901 was
2,254,947. The population of the Southwark Diocese at the present time
is roughly estimated at 2,000,000, rather more than less. It consists
of 294 parishes, ministered to by 687 licensed clergy, or about one to
every 3,000 people, except in South London, where the proportion is
about one to every 4,000.

Bounded on the north by the Thames, on the east, south, and west by
the dioceses of Canterbury, Chichester, and Winchester respectively,
the space enclosed presents an irregular figure varying from some
three miles in breadth, in its central portion, to about thirteen
along its southern frontier, and about twenty in its widest part
towards the north. Its greatest length in a straight line from London
Bridge to Felbridge is about twenty-five miles. Geographically the map
suggests a couple of small continents joined together by a sort of
isthmus in the middle, where the breadth is narrowed by the sweeping
bays, or inlets, formed by the encroaching dioceses on the right and
left.

By Letters Patent, dated 17th May, 1905, Dr. Edward Stuart Talbot,
previously Bishop of Rochester, was appointed to the newly-founded See
of Southwark. For its better organisation he lost no time in applying
to the Crown for the appointment of two Suffragan Bishops, suggesting
one for Woolwich, as a place of great national importance and a centre
of vigorous municipal and industrial life; the other for Kingston, as
representing the ancient and rural side of the diocese. By the
approval of His Majesty the appointments were made in the same month,
viz.: the Rev. John Cox Leeke, Hon. Canon of Rochester Cathedral and
Rural Dean of Woolwich, to be Bishop Suffragan of Woolwich; and the
Rev. Cecil Hook, Vicar of All Saints', Leamington, and Hon. Canon of
Worcester Cathedral, to be Bishop Suffragan of Kingston-on-Thames.

In one sense the most important difficulty to be overcome in the
formation of the new diocese was the raising of the capital to provide
for the endowment, a _sine qua non_ to the Parliamentary sanction. The
requisite sum was provided by voluntary contributions, great and
small, throughout the undivided diocese of Rochester, and throughout
the country; not the least interesting item being the "shilling fund,"
promoted by the Rev. T.B. Dover, Vicar of Maiden, which resulted in
an Easter offering of exactly £2,200. The capital was brought up to
£109,000 by the time the new appointments were made. It is intended to
provide a minimum income of £3,000 for the Bishop of Southwark, and a
house for his successor in the See of Rochester, in lieu of the house
at Kennington Park, transferred from the old to the new diocese. The
funds of the latter have since been augmented by a grant of £25,000
from the Bishop of London, out of the compensation money (£100,000),
paid by the City and South London Electric Railway Company for
undermining the City Church of St. Mary Woolnoth in order to build a
station. This sum of £25,000 is specially destined for church
extension, and Dr. Talbot set apart £2,000 of it, directly it was
granted, for that purpose in the Woolwich area.

Mr. Harry Lloyd, of Woodlands, Caterham, is acting as Hon. Treasurer
to the fund which has been opened for the complete equipment of the
diocese.

The Cathedral Church of St. Saviour is as yet without endowment, and
depends entirely upon voluntary offerings for its expenses. These were
estimated on the average at about £2,500 till last year, when the cost
of maintenance amounted to £3,096, besides which about £350 was
required for the College of Clergy. Attention was called to this
matter by the Ven. Archdeacon Taylor during his Visitation held in the
Cathedral on 25th May, 1905, when he made an earnest appeal to the
church people of the diocese for their help and sympathy on behalf of
the Cathedral, the Bishop and his Suffragans, and all concerned in the
work.

The duties before them, in the arrangement and control of the various
elements of which the diocese is composed, will obviously not be
light, but ought to be extremely interesting and rewarding. They will
have to deal with extremes, which may there be said to meet, in a
combination of rural and urban, ancient and modern, commercial,
industrial, and aristocratic life, a variety in unity such as the
Catholic Church itself presents, of which the diocese may be regarded
as a miniature.

                    "In veste varietas sit: scissura non sit."

   [Illustration: THE PRIORY SEAL.
   (OBVERSE. REVERSE.)]


APPENDIX

I


LIST OF THE PRIORS OF ST. MARY OVERIE

                                      Appointed.
 1. Aldgod                               1106
 2. Algar                                1130
 3. Warin                                1132
 4. Gregory                              1142
 5. Ralph                                1150
 6. Richard                              1154
 7. Valerianus                           1163
 8. William de Oxenford                  1189
 9. Richard de St. Mildred               1203
10. William Fitz Samari                  1205
11. Martin                               1206
12. Robert de Oseney                     1218
13. Humphrey                             1223
14. Eustachius                           1240
15. Stephen                              1253
16. Alan                                 1266
17. William Wallys                       1283
18. Peter de Cheyham                     1306
19. Thomas de Southwark                  1326
20. Robert de Welles                     1331
21. John de Peckham                      1348
22. Henry Collingbourne                  1359
23. John Kyngeston                       1395
24. Robert Weston                        1397
25. Henry Werkeworth                     1414
26. John Bottisham                       1452
27. Henry de Burton                      1462
28. Richard Briggs                       1486
29. John Reculver                        1491
30. Richard Michell                      1499
31. Robert Shouldham                     1512
32. Bartholomew Linstede                 1513
    (_alias_ Fowle)

The last-named surrendered the Priory to Henry VIII in 1540, when he
was granted a pension of £100 per annum, and the use of a house within
the close. The aggregate granted to the other annuitants (eleven in
number), amounted to £70. The pensions were to be paid half yearly.
The annual value of the Priory at the surrender was estimated at £656
10_s._, from which "Reprisals," amounting to £32 3_s._ 6_d._, were
deducted by the Commissioners, leaving £624 6_s._ 6_d._ net.


II

THE PRIORY SEAL


The impressions given (p. 103) are taken from a fine, but imperfect,
sulphur cast in the British Museum (4050 lxxii, 66 and 67) of the Seal
in use in the twelfth century. It is circular, about 2-3/8 inches in
diameter, and contains, within a vesical compartment, a figure of the
Blessed Virgin, seated on a carved throne, holding a fleur-de-lis in
her right hand, and supporting with her left the Infant Saviour upon
her knee. The Holy Child is distinguished by a cruciform nimbus, while
that of the Virgin is a plain circle. The Child is raising the right
hand in benediction, and holds in the left an orb. The vesica is
bordered with a double dotted line, containing the salutation: "Ave:
Maria: gracia: plena: Dñs: tecum: benedicta." A similar border,
immediately within the circumference, holds the legend: "Sigillum
ecclesie sancte Marie de Suthewercha."

The space between the circumference and the vesica is occupied on each
side by two angels, with expanded wings, those above issuing from
waves, those below kneeling.

The reverse contains a small counterseal, 1-3/8 inch in diameter. The
figure is an angel, with nimbus and expanded wings, issuing from
waves, with (probably) an orb in the hands.

The inscription: "Ave: Mater: Misericordie."

It may be mentioned that the design of the seal varied with different
Priors. The British Museum possesses several casts, and an original in
red wax (attached to a deed), the design on which is indistinguishable.
The specimen chosen appears to be the most interesting and elaborate,
though not the most ancient, of those in the collection.


III

LIST OF THE CHAPLAINS OF ST. SAVIOUR'S

(Compiled by the Rev. Dr. Thompson, and here reproduced by his
permission.)


                                      Appointed.
 1. Rev. Kelle                           1563
 2. James Holyland                       1564
 3. Harman                               1565
 4. Styles                               1578
 5. Smythe                               1582
 6. Pattersle                            1585
 7. Hansonne                             1585
 8. Thos. Rattdcliffe                    1585
 9. M. Ed. Philips                       1589
10. Butterton                            1599
11. Marberry                             1601
12. Currie                               1603
13. Knapp                                1604
14. Snape                                1604
15. Church                               1605
16. Symonds                              1605
17. Francis                              1606
18. James Archar                         1614
19. Dr. Thomas Sutton                    1615
20. Harris                               1623
21. P. Micklethwaite                     1625
22. Rev. Nicolas Morton                  1627
23. Stephen Watkins                      1654
24. Robert Knightly                      1656
25. Dr. William Hoare                    1678
26. Dr. Samuel Barton                    1687
27. Dr. H. Sacheverell                   1705
28. Dr. Thomas Horne                     1709
29. Wainford                             1724
30. Dr. Benj. Slocock                    1725
31. John Smith                           1729
32. Thomas Jones                         1753
33. William Day                          1762
34. Sambrook Russell                     1768
35. Philip Batteson                      1769
36. W. Winkworth                         1794
37. W. Mann                              1804
38. Thomas Bird                          1807
39. Dr. W. Harrison                      1808
40. W. Curling                           1833
41. S. Benson                            1843
42. Dr. W. Thompson                      1879

NOTE.--An interval of over twenty years will be noticed between Nos.
24 and 25, during which the names of other "Ministers" appear in the
Registers.

It was the rule for two Chaplains to be in office at once till 1881,
when Dr. Thompson was made sole Chaplain. In 1885 he was appointed
Rector, and in 1897 Canon and Chancellor of the Collegiate Church.

The Rev. Mr. Kelle was dismissed in January, 1564, for refusing to
wear a surplice at the Communion; but in consideration of his old age
he was presented with the sum of £4, "by the good wyllys" of the
Vestry and Churchwardens.

Messrs. Holyland and Harman were then elected, as of a more compliant
temper, their "wages" being fixed at £20 a year "and not the
christenings, and to leave at a fortnight's warning." Mrs. Holyland
was to receive "for her wages" ten shillings.

By far the most prominent in the list is Dr. Sacheverell. The two
sermons which led to his impeachment were preached at the Derby
Assizes on 15th August, and at St. Paul's Cathedral on 5th November,
1709. These, with his published Answer and the Speech in his Defence,
delivered at Westminster Hall on the 7th March, 1710, are still
exciting reading.


IV

VESTMENTS, PLATE, AND ORNAMENTS AT ST. SAVIOUR'S[33]


An examination was made on the 20th October, 1552, by the agents
"assigned and appointed by the Commissioners, and by them sworn truly
to enquire and find out the whole of all such plate, jewels, and
ornaments, as since the beginning of the King's reign that now is
belonged to the Church of Saint Saviour in Southwark, as far as in
them lieth."

