2. Where either party was impotent at the time of the marriage.

3. Where either party has a husband or wife at the time of the marriage,
provided they have not continued to live and cohabit together after the
death of the former husband or wife.

4. Where either party was insane or idiotic at the time of the marriage.
[§3422.] If a person marries who has a husband or wife living such
marriage is absolutely void. In case of absence of the husband a
presumption of death does not arise until he has been absent seven years
without intelligence concerning him. Where a party is insane or idiotic,
and is therefore incapable of consenting, a marriage with such person
will be void. When a marriage is absolutely void by law, it is not
necessary to bring an action to annul it, before contracting a
subsequent legal marriage.

[Sidenote: Petition.]

A petition shall be filed in such cases as in actions for divorce, and
all the provisions of this chapter shall apply to such cases except as
otherwise provided. [§3423]

[Sidenote: Validity determined.]

When the validity of a marriage is doubted, either party may file a
petition and the court shall decree it annulled or affirmed according
to the proof. [§3424]

[Sidenote: Children. Legitimacy.]

When a marriage is annulled on account of the consanguinity or affinity
of the parties, or because of impotency, the issue shall be
illegitimate, but when on account of non-age, or insanity, or idiocy,
the issue is the legitimate issue of the party capable of contracting
marriage. [§3425]

[Sidenote: Prior marriage.]

When a marriage is annulled on account of a prior marriage, and the
parties contracted the second in good faith, believing the prior husband
or wife to be dead, that fact shall be stated in the degree of nullity;
and the issue of the second marriage, begotten before the decree of the
court, is the legitimate issue of the parent capable of contracting.
[§3426.]

[Sidenote: Alimony.]

In case either party entered into the contract of marriage in good
faith, supposing the other to be capable of contracting, and the
marriage is declared a nullity, such fact shall be entered in the
decree, and the court may decree such innocent party compensation as in
cases of divorce. [§3427.]


CHAPTER V.


MINORS AND GUARDIANSHIP.

[Sidenote: Majority.]

The period of minority extends in males to the age of twenty-one years,
and in females to that of eighteen, but all minors attain their majority
by marriage. [§3428.] The disability of minority may also be terminated
by death.

[Sidenote: Contracts.]

[Sidenote: Disaffirmance.]

A minor is bound not only by contracts for necessaries, but also for
his other contracts, unless he disaffirms them within a reasonable time
after he attains his majority, and restores to the other party all money
or property received by him by virtue of the contract and remaining
within his control at any time after his attaining his majority.
[§3429.] The rule respecting the contract of an infant is, that when the
court can pronounce it to be to the infant's prejudice, it is void, and
when to his benefit, as for necessaries, it is good, and when of
uncertain nature, it is voidable, at the election of the infant. As to
what will be "a reasonable time," within which a minor must disaffirm
his contract, must depend upon the peculiar circumstances of each case.
In case of the marriage of a minor the time for disaffirmance will
commence from the date of the marriage. The intention of this law is to
limit the time in which a minor may take advantage of his minority and
disaffirm his contracts, but the disaffirmance may be either before or
after majority, if within a reasonable time after becoming of age. The
minor is under no obligation to restore money or property, unless it is
the identical money or property received by virtue of the contract, and
he may therefore disaffirm his contract without rendering back the
consideration, if such consideration is no longer under his control.

[Sidenote: Misrepresentations. Engaging in business.]

No contract can be thus disaffirmed in cases, where on account of the
minor's own misrepresentations as to his majority, or from his having
engaged in business as an adult, the other party had good reason to
believe the minor capable of contracting. [§3430.] If the fact of
minority is known to the other party, the minor will not be bound by his
contracts, although he may be engaged in business as an adult. The fact
that he is engaged in business on his own account will alone be
sufficient evidence to authorize others to conclude that he has attained
his majority and will make all contracts to which he is a party, binding
upon him.

[Sidenote: Natural guardians.]

The parents are the natural guardians of their minor children and are
equally entitled to the care and custody of them. [§3432.] While a
parent is the natural guardian of his child, this guardianship is not
absolute, and may be lost by any misconduct on the part of the parent
which would render it not best for the child to remain in his care and
under his control. The duty of furnishing support to minor children
rests equally upon both parents, but neither one is legally liable for
the support of their adult children. An adult child living at home in
the family of the parent, being supported as a member of the family, and
performing services in the household, cannot recover payment for such
services in the absence of an express contract on the part of the parent
to pay for them. A stepfather stands in the position of a parent to the
children of his wife by a former husband, _provided_, he receives them
into his family. He is entitled to their services and is responsible for
their education and maintenance. The parents can at any time consent to
surrender the custody of their minor children and transfer this custody
to another by agreement. Articles of adoption properly executed
according to the requirements of the law upon that subject, are
necessary to invest another with the rights and responsibilities of a
parent.

[Sidenote: Surviving parent, Guardian appointed.]

Either parent dying before the other, the survivor becomes the guardian.
If there be no parent or guardian qualified and competent to discharge
the duty, the district court shall appoint a guardian. [§3488.]

[Sidenote: Of property.]

If the minor has property not derived from either parent, a guardian
must be appointed to manage such property, which may be either parent,
if suitable and proper. [§3434.]

[Sidenote: Minor may choose.]

If the minor be over the age of fourteen years and of sound intellect,
he may select his own guardian, subject to the approval of the district
court of the county where his parents, or either of them resides; or, if
such minor is living separate and apart from his parents, the district
court of the county where he resides has jurisdiction. [§3435.]

[Sidenote: Powers.]

Guardians of the persons of minors have the same power and control over
them that parents would have if living. [§3440.]

[Sidenote: Duties.]

Guardians of the property of minors must prosecute and defend for their
wards. They must also in other respects manage their interests under the
direction of the court. They may thus lease their lands or loan their
money during their minority, and may do all other acts which the court
may deem for the benefit of the ward. [§3441.] All power of the guardian
over the estate of his ward is derived from the appointment of the
court, but an appointment as guardian will not authorize a sale of
property, nor an investment or disposal of money belonging to the ward,
without a special order of the court. All expenses for the education and
maintenance of the ward must be kept within the income of his estate. If
this should not be sufficient the principal may be resorted to, but not
without an order of the court. All transactions between guardian and
ward, where the former has secured an apparent advantage, by way of
gift, or contract or settlement, will be presumed to have been the
result of undue influence, and will be set aside by a court of equity,
unless it can be shown that they were made in good faith and for a fair
and valuable consideration.

[Sidenote: Property in state.]

The foreign guardian of any non-resident minor, may be appointed the
guardian in this state of such minor, by the district court of the
county wherein he has any property, for the purpose of selling or
otherwise controlling that and all other property of such minor within
the state, unless a guardian has previously been appointed under the
preceding section. The foreign guardian of any non-resident idiot,
lunatic or person of unsound mind may be appointed the guardian of such
ward by the district court in like manner and with like effect in all
cases where the foreign guardian of a non-resident minor could be
appointed the guardian of such minor in this state. Such guardian shall
have the same powers and be subject to the same liabilities as guardians
of resident minors. [§3457.]

[Sidenote: Guardians of drunkards, spendthrifts and lunatics.]

When a petition is presented to the district court, verified by
affidavit, that any inhabitant of the county is:

1. An idiot, lunatic, or person of unsound mind;

2. An habitual drunkard incapable of managing his affairs;

3. A spendthrift who is squandering his property, and the allegations of
the petition have been satisfactorily proved upon the trial, such court
may appoint a guardian of the property of any such person, who shall be
the guardian of the minor children of his ward, unless the court
otherwise orders. Such court may also appoint the guardian of the
property of an habitual drunkard as the guardian of his person. If the
person adjudged to be an habitual drunkard has no property, the court
may appoint a guardian of his person. [§3463 Sup.]

[Sidenote: Order for restraint of drunkard.]

The district court or any judge thereof, may, from time to time, enter
such orders as may be necessary, authorizing the guardian of the person
of such habitual drunkard to confine and restrain him in such manner and
in such place within the state as may, by the court or judge, be
considered best for the purpose of preventing such drunkard from using
intoxicating liquors, and as may tend to his reformation. [§3468a Sup.]
When it is sought to have a guardian appointed for a person of unsound
mind, the test of his mental capacity is not the degree of prudence and
foresight he manifests in the management of his affairs, for "the law
does not assume to measure the different degrees of power of the human
intellect, or to distinguish between them where the power of thought and
reason exists," but the question to be determined is whether or not he
possesses sufficient ability to understand in a reasonable manner the
nature and effect of his acts, or the business he is transacting.
"Although the mind of an individual may be to some extent impaired by
age or disease, still, if he is capable of transacting his ordinary
business, if he understands the nature of the business in which he is
engaged and the effect of what he is doing and can exercise his will
with reference thereto, his acts will be valid," and he will not be
adjudged to be of unsound mind and incapable of managing his business
affairs.

[Sidenote: Real estate sold. Allowance to family.]

Whenever the sale of the real estate of such ward is necessary for his
support or the support of his family or the payment of his debts, or
will be for the interest of his estate or children, the guardian may
sell the same under like proceedings as required by law to authorize the
sale of real estate by the guardian of a minor. The court shall, if
necessary, set off to the wife and children under fifteen years of age,
of the insane person or to either sufficient of his property of such
kind as it shall deem appropriate to support them for twelve months from
the time he was adjudged insane. [§3467.]

[Sidenote: Custody]

The priority of claim to the custody of any insane person, habitual
drunkard, or spendthrift aforesaid, shall be:

1. The legally appointed guardian.

2. The husband or wife.

3. The parents.

4. The children. [§3470.]


CHAPTER VI.


APPRENTICING AND ADOPTION OF CHILDREN.

[Sidenote: Minors.]

Any minor child may be bound to service until the attainment of the age
of legal majority as hereinafter described. [§3471.]

[Sidenote: Indenture.]

Such binding must be by written indenture, specifying the age of the
minor and the terms of agreement. If the minor is more than twelve years
of age and not a pauper, the indenture must be signed by him of his own
free will. [§3472.]

[Sidenote: Consent of parent or guardian.]

A written consent must be appended to or endorsed upon such agreement,
and signed by one of the following persons, to-wit:

1. By the father of the minor; but if he is dead or has abandoned his
family, or is for any cause incapacitated from giving his assent, then

2. By the mother; and if she be dead or unable, or incapacitated for
giving such assent, then,

3. By the guardian; and if there be no guardian, then by the clerk of
the district court. [§3473.]

[Sidenote: Natural guardian removed.]

Upon complaint being made to the district court of the proper county,
verified by affidavit, that the father or mother of a minor child is
from habitual intemperance and vicious and brutal conduct, or from
vicious, brutal and criminal conduct toward said minor child, an
unsuitable person to retain the guardianship and control the education
of such child, the court may, if it find the allegations in the
complaint manifestly true, appoint a proper guardian for the child, and
may if expedient, also direct that said child be bound as an apprentice
to some suitable person until he attains his majority. But nothing
herein shall be so construed as to take such minor child if the mother
be a proper guardian. [§3492.]

The same proceedings may take place and a like order be made, when the
mother, who for any cause became the guardian of her minor child, is in
like manner found to be manifestly an improper person to retain such
guardianship. [§3493.]

[Sidenote: Schooling and treatment of minors.]

The master shall send said minor child, after the same be six years old,
to school at least four months in each year, if there be a school in the
district, and at all times the master shall clothe the minor in a
comfortable and becoming manner. [§3497.]

[Sidenote: Adoption of children. Who may adopt.]

Any person competent to make a will is authorized in manner hereinafter
set forth, to adopt as his own the minor child of another, conferring
thereby upon such child all the rights, privileges and responsibilities
which would pertain to the child if born to the person adopting, in
lawful wedlock. [§3498.]

[Sidenote: Consent of parents or officer.]

In order thereto, the consent of both parents if living and not divorced
or separated, and if divorced or separated, or, if unmarried, the
consent of the parent lawfully having the care and providing for the
wants of the child, or if either parent is dead, then the consent of the
survivor, or if both parents be dead, or the child shall have been and
remain abandoned by them, then the consent of the mayor of the city
where the child is living, or if not in a city, then the clerk of the
district court of the county where the child is living, shall be given
to such adoption, by an instrument in writing signed by the parties or
party consenting, and stating the names of the parents, if known, the
name of the child, if known, the name of the person adopting such child,
and the residence of all, if known, and declaring the name by which such
child is hereafter to be called and known, and stating also that such
child is to be given to the person adopting, for the purpose of adoption
as his own child. [§3499]

[Sidenote: Instrument acknowledged and recorded.]

Such instrument in writing shall be also signed by the person adopting
and shall be acknowledged by all parties thereto in the same manner as
deeds affecting real estate are required to be acknowledged; and shall
be recorded in the recorder's office in the county where the person
adopting resides, and shall be indexed with the name of the parents by
adoption as grantors and the child as grantee, in its original name if
stated in the instrument, [§3500.] A strict compliance in every
particular with the provisions of the statutes is essential to
constitute a legal adoption and to confer upon the adopted child rights
of inheritance. If a minor child has a guardian his consent must be
obtained before the child can be legally adopted.

[Sidenote: Effect.]

Upon the execution, acknowledgment and filing for record of such
instrument, the rights, duties and relations between the parent and
child by adoption, shall, thereafter, in all respects, including the
right of inheritance, be the same that exists by law between parent and
child by lawful birth. [§3501]. The right of a child by adoption to
inherit from the parents by adoption, depends upon a strict compliance
with the requirements of the law in every particular, including the
acknowledgment and recording of the articles of adoption. It is also
essential that the instrument shall be filed for record before the death
of the adopted parent and while the child is a minor. A child by
adoption does not lose the right to inherit from his natural parents,
but is entitled to all rights of inheritance from both natural and
adopted parents.

[Sidenote: Maltreatment.]

In case of maltreatment committed or allowed by the adopted parent, or
palpable neglect of duty on his part, toward such child, the custody
thereof may be taken from him and entrusted to another at his expense,
if so ordered by the district court of the county where the parent
resides; or the court may, on showing of the facts, require from the
adopted parent, bond with security, in a sum to be fixed by him, the
county being the obligee, and for the benefit of the child, conditioned
for the proper treatment and performance of duty towards the child on
the part of the parent; but no action of the court in the premises shall
affect or diminish the acquired right of inheritance on the part of the
child, to the extent of such right in a child of natural birth. [§3502.]

[Sidenote: Home for the friendless Powers.]

Any home for the friendless incorporated under the laws of this state,
shall have authority to receive, control and dispose of minor children,
under the following provisions. In case of the death or legal incapacity
of the father, or in case of his abandoning or neglecting to provide for
his children, the mother shall be considered their legal guardian for
the purpose of making surrender of them to the charge and custody of
such corporation; and in all cases where the person or persons legally
authorized to act as the guardian or guardians of any child are not
known, the mayor of the town or city where such home is located, may, in
his discretion, surrender such child to said home. [§3503.]

[Sidenote: Surrender of child.]

In case it shall be shown to any judge of a court of record, or to the
mayor, or to any justice of the peace, within such city or town, that
the father of any child is dead, or has abandoned his family, or is an
habitual drunkard, or imprisoned for crime, and the mother of such child
is an habitual drunkard or is in prison for crime, or the inmate of a
house of ill-fame, or is dead or has abandoned her family, or that the
parents of any child have abandoned or neglected to provide for it, then
such judge, mayor, or justice of the peace may, if he thinks the welfare
of the child requires it, surrender such child to said home. [§3504]

[Sidenote: Home becomes guardian.]

When a child has been surrendered to any home for the friendless
according to the provisions of these sections, such home becomes the
legal guardian of such child, and may exercise the rights and authority
of parents over such children and may apprentice or provide for the
adoption of the same. [§3505.]


CHAPTER VII.


WILLS AND LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION.

[Sidenote: Who may make wills.]

[Sidenote: Of what property]

Any person of full age and sound mind may dispose, by will, of all his
property except what is sufficient to pay his debts, or what is allowed
as a homestead, or otherwise given by law as privileged property to his
wife and family. [§3522.] The validity of a will depends upon the mental
capacity of a testator and the fact that he was uninfluenced in making
the disposition of his property. If it appears that the testator was
incapable of exercising discretion and sound judgment and of fully
realizing the effect and consequences of the will, though he may not be
absolutely insane, he will not be in such mental condition that he can
make a legal will. If he is of weak mind and it appears that he was
imposed upon or unduly influenced, such facts will invalidate the will.
A testator having testamentary capacity may dispose of his property in
any manner, and to any person he may choose, and may deprive his heirs
of any share in his estate, without any explanation or any express
declaration of disinheritance. The fact that a will is unjust and
unreasonable, in the absence of proof of undue influence, or
insufficient capacity, will not render the will void.

[Sidenote: Subsequent property.]

Property to be subsequently acquired may be devised when the intention
is clear and explicit. [§3523.] If the intention to convey property
acquired after the execution of the will is apparent or may be inferred
from a fair construction of the language used, it will be sufficient,
although the intention may not be directly expressed.

[Sidenote: Verbal wills.]

Personal property to the value of three hundred dollars may be
bequeathed by a verbal will, if witnessed by two competent witnesses.
[§3524.]

[Sidenote: Soldier or mariner.]

A soldier in actual service, or a mariner at sea, may dispose of all his
personal estate by a will so made and witnessed. [§3525.]

[Sidenote: In writing. Witnessed. Signed.]

All other wills, to be valid, must be in writing, witnessed by two
competent witnesses and signed by the testator, or by some other person
in his presence and by his express direction. [§3526.] It is necessary
that the witnesses shall subscribe the will, but not that they shall
have any knowledge of its contents, nor that they shall see the testator
sign it. It is sufficient if the signature is adopted or acknowledged in
their presence. If a will is made with the intention of disposing of
real property it must be executed according to the requirements of the
laws of the state where the real property is situated.

[Sidenote: Interest of witness.]

No subscribing witness to any will can derive any benefit therefrom,
unless there be two disinterested and competent witnesses to the same.
[§3527.] But if, without a will, he would be entitled to any portion of
the testator's estate, he may still receive such portion to the extent
in value of the amount devised. [§3528.]

[Sidenote: Revocation.]

Wills can be revoked in whole or in part, only by being canceled or
destroyed by the act or direction of the testator with the intention of
so revoking them, or by the execution of subsequent wills. [§3529.] The
birth of a child after the execution of a will but before the death of
the testator, operates as a revocation of the will, and the birth and
recognition of an illegitimate child has the same effect. Declarations
of the testator to the effect that he intended to revoke the will, will
not be sufficient to prove a cancellation.

[Sidenote: Cancellation.]

When done by cancellation, the revocation must be witnessed in the same
manner as the making of a new will. [§3530.]

[Sidenote: Executors.]

If no executors are named in the will, one or more may be appointed to
carry it into effect. [§3532.]

[Sidenote: Posthumous children.]

Posthumous children unprovided for by the father's will, shall inherit
the same interest as though no will had been made. [§3534.]

[Sidenote: Heirs of a devisee.]

If a devisee die before the testator, his heirs shall inherit the amount
so devised to him unless from the terms of the will a contrary intent is
manifest. [§3537.] The word heir in this section does not include the
widow of the testator, and she cannot inherit from a child to whom
property has been devised by his father, but who has died before the
father.

[Sidenote: Married women.]

A married woman may act as executor independent of her husband. [§3545.]

[Sidenote: Minors.]

If a minor under eighteen years of age is appointed executor, there is a
temporary vacancy as to him until he reaches that age. [§3546.]

[Sidenote: Administration. Who entitled. Order.]

In other cases where an executor is not appointed by will,
administration shall be granted:

1. To the wife of the deceased;

2. To his next of kin;

3. To his creditors;

4. To any other person whom the court may select. [§3555.]

[Sidenote: Classes united.]

Individuals belonging to the same or different classes, may be united as
administrators whenever such course is deemed expedient. [§3556.]

[Sidenote: Time allowed.]

To each of the above classes in succession a period of twenty days,
commencing with the burial of the deceased, is allowed within which to
apply for administration upon the estate. [§3557.]


CHAPTER VIII.


SETTLEMENT OF THE ESTATE--DESCENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTY.

[Sidenote: Exempt personal property.]

When the deceased leaves a widow, all the personal property which, in
his hands as head of the family, would be exempt from execution, after
being inventoried and appraised, shall be set apart to her as her
property in her own right, and be exempt in her hands as in the hands of
the decedent. [§3575.] This provision secures an advantage to the wife
which does not exist in favor of the husband. Upon the death of the wife
all personal property belonging to her, whether exempt or not, passes to
her administrator to be distributed by him among her heirs. A widow is
not entitled to pension money, although the same was exempt in the hands
of her husband, the exemption being for the benefit of the pensioner as
such, and not as head of a family.

[Sidenote: Life insurance.]

The avails of any life insurance or any other sum of money made payable
by any mutual aid or benevolent society upon the death of a member of
such society, are not subject to the debts of the deceased, except by
special contract or arrangement, but shall in other respects, be
disposed of like other property left by the deceased. [§3576.] A policy
of insurance on the life of an individual, in the absence of an
agreement or assignment to the contrary shall inure to the separate use
of the husband or wife and children of said individual, independently of
his or her creditors. And the avails of all policies of insurance on the
life of an individual payable to his surviving widow, shall be exempt
from liabilities for all debts of such beneficiary contracted prior to
the death of the deceased, provided that in any case the total exemption
for the benefit of any one person shall not exceed the sum of five
thousand dollars. [§1756, Sup.] The contract between the assured and the
insurance company, cannot be changed in any particular without the
consent of the company, and a testator cannot, by will, change the
beneficiary named in the policy unless it is expressly so provided in
the contract. Where a policy is made payable to the assured or his legal
representatives, the proceeds of the policy will pass to the
administrator of his estate, and will be paid to the wife and children,
but no part can be distributed to other heirs. If the assured leaves a
wife or husband and no children, the entire proceeds of the policy will
go to the wife or husband, and after they have passed into the hands of
the beneficiary, they will not be subject to execution for the payment
of his or her debts, provided they do not exceed the sum of five
thousand dollars.

A wife is not her husband's "legal heir" and the entire proceeds of a
policy or certificate of insurance made payable to the assured or his
"legal heirs" will go to the children of the deceased.

[Sidenote: Allowance to widow and children.]

The court shall if necessary, set off to the widow and children under
fifteen years of age, of the decedent, or to either, sufficient of the
property of such kind as it shall deem appropriate to support them for
twelve months from the time of his death. [§3579.] The allowance to the
widow takes priority over all other claims against the estate, and
should be paid immediately. If the widow and children have no other
means of support the allowance may be made though the estate is
insolvent. It is no part of the dower interest, but is a separate and
distinct right which may be made in addition to dower, or even in cases
where by contract made before marriage, all rights to dower and
inheritance have been relinquished. Real estate may be sold if
necessary, where the personal property is not sufficient to provide for
the allowance to the widow and children, and the widow may claim the
allowance although there are no children, and she may have property of
her own, if the income of such property is not sufficient for her
support.

[Sidenote: Expenses of funeral.]

As soon as the executors are possessed of sufficient means, over and
above the expenses of administration, they shall pay off the charges of
the last sickness and funeral of deceased. [§3622.]

[Sidenote: Allowance.]

They shall, in the next place, pay any allowance which may be made by
the court for the maintenance of the widow and minor children. [§3623.]

After the funeral expenses and the allowance to the widow and children
have been paid, the claims against the estate will be discharged in the
order provided by law, after which, the balance of the property, devised
by will after all expenses of administration have been paid, will be
distributed to the different legatees.

[Sidenote: Descent and distribution. Personal property.]

The personal property of the deceased, not necessary for the payment of
debts, nor otherwise disposed of as hereinbefore provided, shall be
distributed to the same persons and in the same proportions as though it
were real estate. [§3640.] A husband cannot, by will, deprive his wife
of her share in his personal estate, after his death, but he may dispose
of it during his lifetime in any manner he may choose.

[Sidenote: Payment.]

The distributive shares shall be paid over as fast as the executors can
properly do so. [§3641.]

[Sidenote: In kind.]

