'A little speculation of mine,' quoth Hiram, quietly.

'Well, men do sometimes buy their own _paper_, I know--that is, when
there is a promise to pay written on it; but this is a blank lot.'

'It will prove a prize to me, unless I am mistaken.'

Mr. Bennett caught the general idea on the instant. The two exchanged
looks, such as are only current between very 'cute, knowing,
sharp-witted men. Hiram was betrayed into returning Mr. Bennett's leer
before he was aware of it. It was a spontaneous recognition, and he felt
ashamed at being thus thrown off his guard. He colored slightly, and
said something about his duty to his employer.

'There's where you're right,' replied Mr. Bennett. 'A man who does not
serve his employer well will not serve himself well in the long run;
that you may be sure of.'

The conversation ended here. Hiram strolled out again for half an hour;
and when he returned, Mr. Bennett was able to give him a daguerreotype
of Elihu Joslin's character, which agreed with that with which we have
already favored the reader. As to 'Orris & Tweed, auctioneers,' they
were not much better than Peter Funks--lived by acting as stool pigeons,
and cheating generally.

Hiram left the store rejoicing at this intelligence, and took his way
direct to Joslin's place. Inquiring if that personage was in, he was
told yes, but specially engaged. Hiram sat for a full hour, waiting
patiently: then he was told to go into the private counting room.

Entering, he beheld a large, overgrown, rough-looking man, about five
and thirty, with black hair and eyes, and a coarse, florid complexion,
who looked up and nodded carelessly on his entering.

'This is Mr. Joslin, I presume?'

Yes.'

'My name is Meeker, I come from Burnsville--am in the employ of Mr.
Burns.'

'Well?'

'I have come down to take a look at York, and knowing you owned half the
paper mill, guessed you was a friend of Mr. Burns, and might not object
to let some of your folks show me about a little.'

'You don't belong in the mill, then?'

'No; but I've been all over it. It's curious work--paper making.'

'How long are you going to stay here?'

'Well, I want to make a little visit and see the place. In fact, I've a
notion to come here by-and-by, and I would like to look about first.
Don't you want a clerk yourself?'

'What can you do?'

'I can tend store first rate.'

'What do you want to leave Burns for?'

'I didn't say I wanted to leave him. He's a first-rate man, if he was
only a little sharper--got too many soft spots: that's what I hear folks
say. But I think I should like New York.'

'Well, Nicker--'

'Meeker, if you please.'

'All right, I say, Meeker; we are pretty busy now, but if you want to
see the elephant--and I suppose you do--I will introduce you to one of
my boys, who will give you a chance.'

He stepped out, beckoning Hiram to follow.

'Hill! Tell Hill to come here, some of you. Hill, this is Mr. Meeker, in
the employ of our particular friend, Mr. Burns, of Burnsville. He wants
to see something of the city. You must do what you can for him. I would
not wish to slight any one, you know, who belongs with Mr. Burns.'

'All right, sir,' said Hill, a jaunty, devil-may-care looking fellow,
with a sallow, sickly face, evidently the result of excess and
dissipation.' If the young gentleman will tell me where he stops. I will
call for him this evening.'

'At the Franklin House,' responded Hiram.

'The devil!' exclaimed Joslin. 'Tall quarters, I should say.'

'Ain't it a good place, sir? I was told it was a good house on board
the boat.'

'Good! I should think it was. The best in New York. A dollar and a half
a day: did you understand that?'

'No, sir; I did not ask the price.'

'Green, that's a fact,' said Joslin to himself.' Never mind,' he
continued, 'Hill will recommend you to his boarding place, if you like.
Good day;' and Hiram took his leave.

'I say, Hill, I want to find out how matters stand with Burns. You've
got just the chance now. Put this chap through generally. His mother
don't seem to know he's out. Don't mind a few dollars: you understand?
And recollect, pump him dry.'

'Dry as a sandbank,' said Hill, who was already chuckling over the sport
in prospect.

Mr. Joslin continued his instructions, which, as they were of a strictly
private nature, we should be violating confidence to record.

Hiram occupied himself the remainder of the day in looking about the
town. He took one of Brower's omnibuses and rode to the end of the route
in Broadway, opposite Bond street. Here he descended and retraced his
steps. Broadway was then the general promenade. Hiram's pulse beat quick
as he gazed on the beauty and fashion of the metropolis moving
magnificently along. Susceptible as he was, he had never before been so
impressed with female charms. He thought of the belles of Hampton and
Burnsville with a species of disgust. His own costume, which he regarded
as so perfect, he perceived had a provincial, country look, when
contrasted with that of the gentlemen he encountered. Now in business
matters, Hiram was as much at home and as self-possessed in New York as
in Connecticut. But when it came to the display he now beheld, he felt
and acknowledged his inferiority.

Here Hiram _was_ green. He did not stop to reflect that fine feathers
make fine birds, so suddenly was he confronted with the glittering
panorama. He continued to mingle with the crowd which swept along, and
sometimes the blood would rush swiftly to his brain, causing him to
reel, as dark eyes would be turned languidly on him, exhibiting, as he
was ready to believe, an incipient interest in his destiny.

Below Canal street the character of the current began to change, till
gradually Hiram was freed from the exciting trial he had been subjected
to. He collected his thoughts and brought his mind back to his work--and
his work Hiram Meeker never neglected. Slowly the old current drove out
the new. Gradually his mind returned to its even tenor. He walked
through the custom house. He entered the exchange. He visited the
shipping; and when he got back to the hotel, he was tired and hungry
enough. But, tired and hungry as he was, he proceeded at once to open
his valise and take out a bundle of papers. Glancing over certain
account sales, his eye fell on the name of HILL as purchaser. A
peculiar gleam of satisfaction passed over his face as he replaced the
papers in his valise and went down to dinner.


CHAPTER XI.

At the appointed hour, the young gentleman whom Mr. Joslin had addressed
as 'Hill' waited on Hiram at the Franklin House. He sent up his card,
and Hiram descended to meet him. He could scarcely recognize the young
man before him, dressed in a ridiculous extreme of fashion, and covered
with rings, pins, and gold chains, as the clerk hard at work with coat
off, superintending the stowing away of a lot of merchandise. But Hiram
was in no way deceived or taken in by the imposing manner in which Mr.
Hill had got himself up. He saw quickly the difference between the real
and the flash fashionable. But he did not betray this by word or sign,
and continued to maintain the character he had assumed of an
unsophisticated, verdant country youth.

Mr. Hill at the outset proposed they should take a drink, to which Hiram
readily assented. They proceeded to the bar, when the young man asked
his companion what he would have.

'A glass of lemonade,' replied Hiram.

'Lemonade!' exclaimed the other. 'You don't call that drinking with a
fellow, do you?'

'I can't take anything stronger,' answered Hiram. 'I belong to the
temperance society.'

'Temperance society!' retorted Hill, a good deal chapfallen that he was
to lose his chief weapon of attack. 'I thought the pledge didn't hold
when you were away from home?'

'Oh, yes it does; our minister says it holds everywhere. Still, I
wouldn't mind taking some soda and sarsaparilla, though Dr. Stevens says
there's alcohol in the sarsaparilla.'

Hiram was impracticable. Hill could not induce him even to take a little
wine. He was so much chagrined that he poured out for himself a double
portion of brandy, and, before he had finished it, regained his good
humor.

'Well, what do you say to another glass? I think I can stand the brandy,
if you can the lemonade.'

Hiram had no objections.

Hill lighted a segar. Hiram did not smoke.

'I hope you are not going to refuse my next invitation,' said Hill. 'I
have got tickets for the theatre: what do you say?'

Hiram had often discussed the theatre question, both at the lyceum and
on other occasions. It was to be condemned--no doubt about it. But the
Rev. Mr. Goddard had once remarked in his hearing that he thought if a
good opportunity was presented for a young man to visit the theatre, he
had perhaps better do so, than feel an irritating curiosity all his life
about it.

Seeing Hiram hesitate, Hill proceeded to urge him. 'You had better go,'
he said. 'Lots to be seen. You don't know what you are losing, I tell
you.'

Hiram was not influenced by his companion's importunity, but he decided
to go, nevertheless. The elder Kean was then in New York, and the old
Park Theatre in all its glory. That evening Kean was to play Shylock in
the 'Merchant of Venice.' Hill, greatly pleased that at last he had made
some headway, took another glass of brandy and water, and the young men
proceeded to the theatre. The house was crowded from galleries to pit.
The orchestra was playing when they entered.

Hiram was blinded by the brilliancy of the gaslights. His heart beat
fast in spite of his effort to be composed.

The play began with some second-rate actors, who went through the first
scene with the usual affected stage strut and tone. Hiram thought he
never witnessed anything more unnatural and ridiculous. Even in the
second, where Portia and Nerissa hold a dialogue, he was rather
disgusted than otherwise. The machinery had scarcely been adjusted for
the third scene, when a storm of applause burst from all parts of the
house; clapping of hands, stamping of feet, bravos, and various noises
of welcome commingled, and Hiram beheld an old man enter, somewhat bent,
dressed in a Hebrew cap and tunic, having a short cane, which would
serve either for support or as a means of defence. As he advanced, he
cast sidelong, suspicious, and sinister glances from beneath bushy,
beetling eyebrows.

At first Hiram was inclined to believe it was a real personage, so
natural was his entrance--so destitute of all trick, or of anything got
up.

'That's Kean,' whispered Hill.

Hiram held his breath as the words of the Jew broke distinctly on the
house:

'_Three thousand ducats--well._'

He entered at once with the deepest interest into the play. With head
leaning forward, eyes open wide and fixed on the speaker, he drank in
every word. From the first he sympathized with the main character. When
Shylock went on to say: 'Yet his means are in supposition: he hath an
argosy bound to Tipolis, another to the Indies. I understand, moreover,
upon the Rialto, he hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England; and
other ventures he hath, squandered abroad. But ships are but boards,
sailors but men. There be land rats and water rats, land thieves and
water thieves--I mean pirates; and there is the peril of waters, winds,
and rocks. The man is notwithstanding sufficient:'--Hiram unconsciously
shook his head, as if he doubted it.

His whole soul was now centred in the performance. When it came to the
trial, in the fourth act, he turned and twisted his body, as if he could
with difficulty abstain from advising Shylock to accept the offer of
Bassanio: 'For the three thousand ducats here is six.'

It does not appear that Hiram felt any sympathy for the merchant who was
to lose the pound of flesh; but for Shylock, when turned out of court
stripped of all he had, it was intense. When at last he exclaims:

  'Nay, take my life and all; pardon not that:
  You take my house when you do take the prop
  That doth sustain my house; you take my life
  When you do take the means whereby I live:'

Hiram leaned back, and exclaimed audibly: 'It's too bad, I declare!'

All this time, Hill sat as quietly as he could. He laughed whenever
Launcelot Gobbo appeared; and tried hard to get Hiram to go out and take
more lemonade between the acts. Hiram would not move. He offered to
introduce him to lots of pretty girls whom he pointed out in the
distance; but it was useless. Hill began to think he would not make much
of Hiram, after all. The evening was past, and he had as yet
accomplished just nothing.

The play was over. The farce had been performed. It did not interest
Hiram. He thought everything over-strained and unnatural. It was now
late, Hiram had declined various seductive invitations of Hill, when the
latter finally insisted they should have some oysters. Hiram assented,
and the two descended into Windust's.

'Well, old fellow, what are you doing here?' was Hill's exclamation to a
young man with notebook and pencil, seated at one of the small tables,
on which already smoked an oyster stew and some brandy toddy.

'Hallo, Hill, is that you? Sit down. What will you have?' was the reply.

Hiram regarded the speaker curiously. He was twenty-two or three years
old--serious looking, with black hair, dark eyes, and pale, bony
features. He had the easy, indifferent air of one careless of opinion,
or independent of it.

'My friend, Mr. Meeker, from Connecticut.'

'Mr. Meeker, Mr. Innis.'

After these salutations, the parties sat down, and orders were given.

'Excuse me,' said Innis; 'I am not quite through my work.'

'Go ahead,' replied Hill; whereat the other proceeded with his pencil
and notebook, scratching away in a most rapid manner.

Seeing Hiram look as if he did not exactly comprehend the employment,
Hill remarked, 'Innis is _item_ man and reporter for the _Clarion_, and
you will see his notice of Kean's performance, which he is just
finishing, in to-morrow morning's paper.'

This struck Hiram as rapid work, considerably increasing his respect for
the stranger, and led him to regard Innis still more critically. His
appearance had impressed him favorably from the first.

Suddenly he exclaimed, 'Wern't you at Newton Academy?'

'Yes; and so were you. I remember now. You were a little fellow. You
took the first prize in bookkeeping.'

'And _you_ learned shorthand of Chellis.'

'Which counts now, at any rate. I should starve without it.'

During this colloquy Hill sat in utter amazement.

'You a Newton boy?' he exclaimed at last.

'Yes,' said Hiram.

'And you know him, and no mistake?' to Innis.

Innis nodded.

'Then old Joslin may go to the devil. I--'

'He'll go soon enough, and without your permission; and if you are not
careful, you'll go with him,' interrupted Innis, rising. 'I am all right
now,' he continued. 'I've but to step a block and a half and back. I
will be with you again in three minutes;' and he darted off to hand in
his evening's report.

Hill sat looking at Hiram, who, with all his impenetrability wore a
surprised and puzzled expression.

'You don't remember me,' he said.

'No.'

'Why, I am Deacon Hill's son, of Newton. I quit the academy, I guess,
just about the time you came. Innis and I were there together. Well, I
declare, your innocent look threw me off the track; but I have seen you
many a time in Hampton. You used to be with Jessup, didn't you?'

'Yes.'

'You've been coming possum over Joslin; isn't it so?'

'I don't understand you.'

