primarily based was poorly printed and we have corrected
outright punctuation and grammatical errors while maintaining
its original, whimisical use of capitalization and punctuation.
This version contains very few "Dundrearyisms" such as
"birds of a feather gather no moss" for which the play
gained much of its popular appeal.


Our American Cousin

A Drama, in 3 Acts.

By Tom Taylor


[Abraham Lincoln was watching this play when he was assassinated.
(Act III, halfway through Scene 2.)]


ORIGINAL CAST OF CHARACTERS. [Our American Cousin.]


Laura Keene's Theatre, New York, October 15, 1858.

Lord Dundreary                Mr. E. A. Sothern  
Asa Trenchard                 ''  Jos. Jefferson
Sir Edward Trenchard          ''  E. Varrey
Capt. De Boots                ''  Clinton
Harry Vernon                  ''  M. Levick
Abel Murcott                  ''  C.W. Couldock
Mr. Coyle                     ''  J.G. Burnett
Mr. Buddicombe                ''  McDouall
Mr. Binny                     ''  Peters
John Wickens                  ''  Brown
Mrs. Mountchessington         Miss Mary Wells
Florence Trenchard            ''   Laura Keene
Mary                          ''   Sara Stevens
Augusta                       ''   E. Germon
Georgina                      Mrs. Sothern
Sharpe                        Miss Flynn
Skillet                       Mrs. M. Levick


OUR AMERICAN COUSIN.


ACT I.


Scene 1--Drawing room in 3. Trenchard Manor, C. D., backed by interior,
discovering table with luncheon spread.  Large French window, R. 3 E.,
through which a fine English park is seen.  Open archway, L. 3 E.
Set balcony behind.  Table, R., books and papers on it.
Work basket containing wools and embroidery frame.  A fashionable
arm chair and sofa, L. 2 E., small table near C. D.  Stage handsomely set,
costly furniture, carpet down, chairs, etc.


Buddicombe discovered on sofa reading newspaper.  Skillet and Sharpe
busily arranging furniture as curtain rises.


Sharpe  I don't know how you may feel as a visitor, Mr. Buddicombe,
but I think this is a most uncomfortable family.

Bud  Very uncomfortable.  I have no curtain to my bed.

Skil  And no wine at the second table.

Sharpe  And meaner servants I never seed.

Bud  I'm afraid Sir Edward is in a queer strait.

Skil  Yes, for only this morning, Mr. Binny, Mrs. Skillet says he--


Enter Binny, L. 3 E.


Binny  Mind your hown business instead hof your betters.
I'm disgusted with you lower servants.  When the wine merchant
presents his bills, you men, hear me, say he's been pressing for
the last six months, do you?

Skil  Nor I, that the last year's milliner's bills have not been paid.

Sharpe  Nor I, that Miss Florence has not had no new dresses
from London all winter.

Bud  And I can solemnly swear that his lordship's hair has been faithfully
bound in this bosom.

Binny  That'll do, that'll do; but to remember to check hidle curiosity
is the first duty of men hin livery.  Ha, 'ere hare the letters.


Enter John Wickens, L. 3 E., with green baize bag.  Binny takes bag,
takes out letters and reads addresses.


Binny  Hah! bill, of course, Miss Augusta, Mrs. Mountchessington,
Lord Dundreary, Capt. De Boots, Miss Georgina Mountchessington,
Lieut. Vernon, ah! that's from the admiralty.  What's this?
Miss Florence Trenchard, via Brattleboro', Vermont.

Bud  Where's that, Mr. Binny.

John  Why that be hin the United States of North Hamerica,
and a main good place for poor folks.

Binny  John Wickens, you forget yourself.

John  Beg pardon, Mr. Binny.

Binny  John Wickens, leave the room.

John  But I know where Vermont be tho'.

Binny  John Wickens, get hout.  [Exit John, L. 3 E.]

Bud  Dreadful low fellow, that.

Binny  Halways himpudent.

Bud  [Looking at letter in Binny's hand.]  Why, that is Sir Edward's hand,
Mr. Binny, he must have been sporting.

Binny  Yes, shooting the wild helephants and buffalos what abound there.

Bud  The nasty beasts.  [Looking off, R. 2 E.]  Hello, there comes
Miss Florence tearing across the lane like a three year old colt.

Sharp & Skil  Oh, Gemini.  [Run off, R. 2 E.  Bud. runs off, L. 2 E.]


Enter Florence, R. 2 E.


Flo  [As if after running.]  Oh!  I'm fairly out of breath.  Good morning,
Binny, the letter bag I saw coming, Wickens coming with it.
I thought I could catch him before I reached the house.  [Sits R.]
So off I started, I forgot the pond, it was in or over.  I got over,
but my hat got in.  I wish you'd fish it out for me, you won't find
the pond very deep.

Binny  Me fish for an at?  Does she take me for an hangler?

Flo.  Give me the letters.  [Takes them.]  Ah, blessed budget
that descends upon Trenchard Manor, like rain on a duck pond.
Tell papa and all, that the letters have come, you will find them
on the terrace.

Binny  Yes, Miss.  [Going, L. 3 E.]

Flo  And then go fish out my hat out of the pond, it's not very deep
Binny  [Aside.]  Me fish for 'ats?  I wonder if she takes me for an hangler?
[Exit disgusted, R. 3 E.]

Flo  [Reading directions.]  Lieut. Vernon.  [This is a large letter
with a large white envelope, red seal.]  In her Majesty's service.
Admiralty, R. N.  Ah, that's an answer to Harry's application for a ship.
Papa promised to use his influence for him.  I hope he has succeeded,
but then he will have to leave us, and who knows if he ever comes back.
What a foolish girl I am, when I know that his rise in the service
will depend upon it.  I do hope he'll get it, and, if he must leave us,
I'll bid him good bye as a lass who loves a sailor should.


Enter  Sir Edward, Mrs. M., Augusta, Capt. De Boots, Vernon, L. 3 E.


Flo  Papa, dear, here are letters for you, one for you,
Mrs. Mountchessington, one for you, Capt. De Boots, and one for you, Harry.
[Hiding letter behind her.]

Ver  Ah, one for me, Florence?

Flo  Now what will you give me for one?

Ver  Ah, then you have one?

Flo  Yes, there, Harry.  [Gives it.]

Ver  Ah, for a ship.  [Opens and reads.]

Flo  Ah!  Mon ami, you are to leave us.  Good news, or bad?

Ver  No ship yet, this promises another year of land lubbery.  [Goes up.]

Flo.  I'm so sorry.  [Aside.]  I'm so glad he's not going away.
But where's Dundreary.  Has anybody seen Dundreary?


Enter Dundreary.


Dun  Good morning, Miss Florence.

Flo  [Comes down, L.]  Good morning, my Lord Dundreary.
Who do you think has been here?  What does the postman bring?

Dun  Well, sometimes he brings a bag with a lock on it,
sometimes newspapers, and sometimes letters, I suppothe.

Flo  There.  [Gives letter.  Dundreary opens letter and Florence goes up R.
Dun. knocks knees against chair, turns round knocks shins,
and at last is seated extreme, R.]

Dun  Thank you.  [Reads letter.]

De B  [Reading paper.]  By Jove, old Soloman has made a crop of it.

Dun  A--what of it?

De B  I beg pardon, an event I am deeply interested in, that's all.
I beg pardon.

Aug  Ah!  Florence, dear, there's a letter of yours got among mine.
[Gives it.]

Flo  Why papa, it's from dear brother Ned.

Sir E  From my boy!  Where is he?  How is he?  Read it.

Flo  He writes from Brattleboro' Vt.  [Reading written letter.]
``Quite well, just come in from a shooting excursion,
with a party of Crows, splendid fellows, six feet high.''

Dun  Birds six feet high, what tremendous animals they must be.

Flo  Oh, I see what my brother means; a tribe of indians called Crows,
not birds.

Dun  Oh, I thought you meant those creatures with wigs on them.

Flo  Wigs!

Dun  I mean those things that move, breathe and walk, they look like
animals with those things.  [Moving his arms like wings.]

Flo  Wings.

Dun  Birds with wings, that's the idea.

Flo  [Reading written letter.]  ``Bye-the-bye, I have lately come
quite hap-hazard upon the other branch of our family, which emigrated
to America at the Restoration.  They are now thriving in this State,
and discovering our relationship, they received me most hospitably.
I have cleared up the mysterious death of old Mark Trenchard.''

Sir E  Of my uncle!

Flo  [Reading written letter.]  ``It appears that when he quarreled
with his daughter on her marriage with poor Meredith, he came here
in search of this stray shoot of the family tree, found them and died
in their house, leaving Asa, one of the sons, heir to his personal property
in England, which ought to belong to poor Mary Meredith.  Asa is about
to sail for the old country, to take possession.  I gave him directions
to find you out, and he should arrive almost as soon as this letter.
Receive him kindly for the sake of the kindness he has shown to me,
and let him see some of our shooting.''
				Your affectionate brother,   NED.

Sir E  An American branch of the family.

Mrs M  Oh, how interesting!

Aug  [Enthusiastically.]  How delightfully romantic!  I can
imagine the wild young hunter.  An Apollo of the prairie.

Flo  An Apollo of the prairie; yes, with a strong nasal twang,
and a decided taste for tobacco and cobblers.

Sir E  Florence, you forget that he is a Trenchard, and no true Trenchard
would have a liking for cobblers or low people of that kind.

Flo  I hate him, whatever he is, coming here to rob poor cousin Mary
of her grandmother's guineas.

Sir E  Florence, how often must I request you not to speak of
Mary Meredith as your cousin?

Flo  Why, she is my cousin, is she not?  Besides she presides over
her milk pail like a duchess playing dairymaid.  [Sir E. goes up.]
Ah! Papa won't hear me speak of my poor cousin, and then I'm so
fond of syllabubs.  Dundreary, do you know what syllabubs are?

Dun  Oh, yeth, I know what syllabubs is--yeth--yeth.

Flo  Why, I don't believe you do know what they are.

Dun  Not know what syllabubs are?  That's a good idea.  Why they are--
syllabubs are--they are only babies, idiotic children; that's a good idea,
that's good.  [Bumps head against Florence.]

Flo  No, it's not a bit like the idea.  What you mean are called cherubims.

Dun  What, those things that look like oranges, with wings on them?

Flo  Not a bit like it.  Well, after luncheon you must go with me
and I'll introduce you to my cousin Mary and syllabubs.

Dun  I never saw Mr. Syllabubs, I am sure.

Flo  Well, now, don't forget.

Dun  I never can forget--when I can recollect.

Flo  Then recollect that you have an appointment with me after luncheon.

Dun  Yeth, yeth.

Flo  Well, what have you after luncheon?

Dun  Well, sometimes I have a glass of brandy with an egg in it,
sometimes a run 'round the duck-pond, sometimes a game of checkers--
that's for exercise, and perhaps a game of billiards.

Flo  No, no; you have with me after luncheon, an ap--an ap--

Dun  An ap-- an ap--

Flo  An ap--an appoint--appointment.

Dun  An ointment, that's the idea.  [Knocks against De Boots
as they go up stage.]

Mrs M  [Aside.]  That artful girl has designs upon Lord Dundreary.
Augusta, dear, go and see how your poor, dear sister is this morning.

Aug  Yes, mamma.  [Exit, L. 1 E.]

Mrs M  She is a great sufferer, my dear.

Dun  Yeth, but a lonely one.

Flo  What sort of a night had she?

Mrs M  Oh, a very refreshing one, thanks to the draught you were
kind enough to prescribe for her, Lord Dundreary.

Flo  What!  Has Lord Dundreary been prescribing for Georgina?

Dun  Yeth.  You see I gave her a draught that cured the effect of the
draught, and that draught was a draft that didn't pay the doctor's bill.
Didn't that draught--

Flo  Good gracious!  what a number of draughts.  You have almost
a game of draughts.

Dun  Ha! ha! ha!

Flo  What's the matter?

Dun  That wath a joke, that wath.

Flo  Where's the joke?  [Dundreary screams and turns to Mrs. M.]

Mrs M  No.

Dun  She don't see it.  Don't you see--a game of drafts--
pieces of wound wood on square pieces of leather.  That's the idea.
Now, I want to put your brains to the test.  I want to ask you a whime.

Flo  A whime, what's that?

Dun  A whime is a widdle, you know.

Flo  A widdle!

Dun  Yeth; one of those things, like--why is so and so or somebody
like somebody else.

Flo  Oh, I see, you mean a conundrum.

Dun  Yeth, a drum, that's the idea.  What is it gives a cold in the head,
cures a cold, pays the doctor's bill and makes the home-guard look for
substitutes?  [Florence repeats it.]  Yeth, do you give it up?

Flo  Yes.

Dun  Well, I'll tell you--a draught.  Now I've got a better one that that:
When is a dog's tail not a dog's tail?  [Florence repeats.
During this Florence, Mrs. M. and Dundreary are down stage.]

Flo  Yes, and willingly.

Dun  When it's a cart.  [They look at him enquiringly.]

Flo  Why, what in earth has a dog's tail to do with a cart?

Dun  When it moves about, you know.  A horse makes a cart move,
so does a dog make his tail move.

Flo  Oh, I see what you mean--when it's a wagon.  [Wags the letter
in her hand.]

Dun  Well, a wagon and a cart are the same thing, ain't they!
That's the idea--it's the same thing.

Flo  They are not the same.  In the case of your conundrum there's
a very great difference.

Dun  Now I've got another.  Why does a dog waggle his tail?

Flo  Upon my word, I never inquired.

Dun  Because the tail can't waggle the dog.  Ha! Ha!

Flo  Ha! ha!  Is that your own, Dundreary?

Dun  Now I've got one, and this one is original.

Flo  No, no, don't spoil the last one.

Dun  Yeth; but this is extremely interesting.

Mrs M  Do you think so, Lord Dundreary?

Dun  Yeth.  Miss Georgina likes me to tell her my jokes.  Bye-the-bye,
talking of that lonely sufferer, isn't she an interesting invalid?
They do say that's what's the matter with me.  I'm an interesting invalid.

Flo  Oh, that accounts for what I have heard so many young ladies say--
Florence, dear, don't you think Lord Dundreary's extremely interesting?
I never knew what they meant before.

Dun  Yeth, the doctor recommends me to drink donkey's milk.

Flo  [Hiding laugh.]  Oh, what a clever man he must be.
He knows we generally thrive best on our native food.  [Goes up.]

Dun  [Looking first at Florence and then at Mrs M.]  I'm so weak,
and that is so strong.  Yes, I'm naturally very weak, and I want
strengthening.  Yes, I guess I'll try it.


Enter Augusta.  Bus. with Dundreary, who finally exits and
brings on Georgina, L. 1 E.


Dun  Look at this lonely sufferer.  [Bringing on Georgina,
seats her on sofa, L.]  There, repothe yourself.

Geo  [Fanning herself]  Thank you, my lord.  Everybody is kind to me,
and I am so delicate.

Aug  [At table.]  Capt. De Boots, do help to unravel these wools for me,
you have such an eye for color.

Flo  An eye for color!  Yes, especially green.

Dun  [Screams.]  Ha! ha! ha!

All  What's the matter?

Dun  Why, that wath a joke, that wath.

Flo  Where was the joke?

Dun  Especially, ha! ha!

Sir E  Florence, dear, I must leave you to represent me to my guests.
These letters will give me a great deal of business to-day.

Flo  Well, papa, remember I am your little clerk and person of all work.

Sir E  No, no; this is private business--money matters, my love,
which women know nothing about.  [Aside.]  Luckily for them,
I expect Mr. Coyle to-day.

Flo  Dear papa, how I wish you would get another agent.

Sir E  Nonsense, Florence, impossible.  He knows my affairs.
His father was agent for the late Baronet.  He's one of the family, almost.

Flo  Papa, I have implicit faith in my own judgement of faces.
Depend upon it, that man is not to be trusted.

Sir E  Florence, you are ridiculous.  I could not get on a week without him.
[Aside.]  Curse him, I wish I could!  Coyle is a most intelligent agent,
and a most faithful servant of the family.


Enter Binny, L. 3 E.


Binny  Mr. Coyle and hagent with papers.

Sir E  Show him into the library.  I will be with him presently.
[Exit Binny.]

Flo  Remember the archery meeting, papa.  It is at three.

Sir E  Yes, yes, I'll remember.  [Aside.]  Pretty time
for such levity when ruin stares me in the face.  Florence,
I leave you as my representative.  [Aside.]  Now to prepare myself
to meet my Shylock.  [Exit, R. 1 E.]

Flo  Why will papa not trust me?  [Vernon comes down, R.]  Oh, Harry!
I wish he would find out what a lot of pluck and common sense
there is in this feather head of mine.

Dun  Miss Florence, will you be kind enough to tell Miss Georgina
all about that American relative of yours.

Flo  Oh, about my American cousin; certainly.  [Aside to Harry.]
Let's have some fun.  Well, he's about 17 feet high!

Dun  Good gracious!  17 feet high!

Flo  They are all 17 feet high in America, ain't they, Mr. Vernon?

Ver  Yes, that's about the average height.

Flo  And they have long black hair that reaches down to their heels;
they have dark copper-colored skin, and they fight with--
What do they fight with, Mr. Vernon?

Ver  Tomahawks and scalping knives.

Flo  Yes; and you'd better take care, Miss Georgina, or he'll
take his tomahawk and scalping knife and scalp you immediately.
[Georgina screams and faints.]

Dun  Here, somebody get something and throw over her; a pail of water;
no, not that, she's pale enough already.  [Fans her with handkerchief.]
Georgina, don't be afraid.  Dundreary's by your side, he will protect you.

Flo  Don't be frightened, Georgina.  He will never harm you while
Dundreary is about.  Why, he could get three scalps here.
[Pulls Dundreary's whiskers.  Georgina screams.]

Dun  Don't scream, I won't lose my whiskers.  I know what I'll do for my
own safety.  I will take this handkerchief and tie the roof of my head on.
[Ties it on.]

Flo  [Pretending to cry.]  Good bye, Dundreary.  I'll never see
you again in all your glory.

Dun  Don't cry, Miss Florence, I'm ready for Mr. Tommy Hawk.

 
Enter Binny.


Binny  If you please, Miss, 'ere's a gent what says he's hexpected.

Flo  What's his name?  Where's his card?

Binny  He didn't tell me his name, Miss, and when I haxed him
for his card 'e said 'e had a whole pack in his valise,
and if I 'ad a mine 'e'd play me a game of seven hup.
He says he has come to stay, and he certainly looks as if
he didn't mean to go.  

Flo  That's him.  Show him in, Mr. Binny.  [Exit Binny, L. 3 E.]
That's my American cousin, I know.

Aug  [Romantically.]  Your American cousin.  Oh, how delightfully
romantic, isn't it, Capt. De Boots?  [Comes down.]  I can imagine
the wild young hunter, with the free step and majestic mien of
the hunter of the forest.

Asa  [Outside, L. 3 E.]  Consarn your picture, didn't I tell you
I was expected?  You are as obstinate as Deacon Stumps' forelock,
that wouldn't lie down and couldn't stand up.  Would't pint forward
and couldn't go backward.


Enter Asa, L. 3 E., carrying a valise.


Asa  Where's the Squire?

Flo  Do you mean Sir Edward Trenchard, sir?

Asa  Yes.

Flo  He is not present, but I am his daughter.

Asa  Well, I guess that'll fit about as well if you tell this
darned old shoat to take me to my room.

Flo  What does he mean by shoat?

Binny  [Taking valise.]  He means me, mum; but what he wants--

Asa  Hurry up, old hoss!

Binny  He calls me a 'oss, Miss, I suppose I shall be a hox next,
or perhaps an 'ogg.

Asa  Wal, darn me if you ain't the consarnedest old shoat I ever did see
since I was baptized Asa Trenchard.

Flo  Ah!  then it is our American cousin.  Glad to see you--
my brother told us to expect you.

Asa  Wal, yes, I guess you do b'long to my family.  I'm Asa Trenchard,
born in Vermont, suckled on the banks of Muddy Creek, about the
tallest gunner, the slickest dancer, and generally the loudest critter
in the state.  You're my cousin, be you?  Wal, I ain't got no objections
to kiss you, as one cousin ought to kiss another.

Ver  Sir, how dare you?

Asa  Are you one of the family?  Cause if you ain't, you've got
no right to interfere, and if you be, you needn't be alarmed,
I ain't going to kiss you.  Here's your young man's letter.
[Gives letter and attempts to kiss her.]

Flo  In the old country, Mr. Trenchard, cousins content themselves
with hands, but our hearts are with them.  You are welcome,
there is mine.  [Gives her hand, which he shakes heartily.]

Asa  That'll do about as well.  I won't kiss you if you don't want me to;
but if you did, I wouldn't stop on account of that sailor man.
[Business of Vernon threatening Asa.]  Oh! now you needn't get your back up.
What an all-fired chap you are.  Now if you'll have me shown to my room,
I should like to fix up a bit and put on a clean buzzom.  [All start.]
Why, what on earth is the matter with you all?  I only spoke because
you're so all-fired go-to-meeting like.

Flo  Show Mr. Trenchard to the red room, Mr. Binny, that is if you
are done with it, Mr. Dundreary.

Dun  Yeth, Miss Florence.  The room and I have got through with
each other, yeth.


[Asa and Dundreary see each other for the first time.  Business of
recognition, ad. lib.]


Asa  Concentrated essence of baboons, what on earth is that?

Dun  He's mad.  Yes, Miss Florence, I've done with that room.
The rooks crowed so that they racked my brain.

Asa  You don't mean to say that you've got any brains.

Dun  No, sir, such a thing never entered my head.  The wed indians
want to scalp me.  [Holding hands to his head.]

Flo  The red room, then, Mr. Binny.

Asa  [To Binny.]  Hold on!  [Examines him.]  Wal, darn me,
but you keep your help in all-fired good order here.  [Feels of him.]
This old shoat is fat enough to kill.  [Hits Binny in stomach.
Binny runs off, L. 2 E.]  Mind how you go up stairs, old hoss,
or you'll bust your biler.  [Exit, L. 3 E.]

Dun  Now he thinks Binny's an engine and has got a boiler.

Flo  Oh, what fun!

Mrs M  Old Mark Trenchard died very rich, did he not, Florence?

Flo  Very rich, I believe.

Aug  He's not at all romantic, is he, mamma?

Mrs M  [Aside to her]  My dear, I have no doubt he has solid good
qualities, and I don't want you to laugh at him like Florence Trenchard.

Aug  No, mamma, I won't.

Flo  But what are we to do with him?

Dun  Ha! Ha! ha!

All  What is the matter?

Dun  I've got an idea.

Flo  Oh! let's hear Dundreary's idea.

Dun  It's so seldom I get an idea that when I do get one it startles me.
Let us get a pickle bottle.

Flo  Pickle bottle!  [All come down.]

Dun  Yeth; one of those things with glass sides.


Enter Asa, L. 2 E.


Flo  Oh!  you mean a glass case.

Dun  Yeth, a glass case, that's the idea, and let us put this
Mr. Thomas Hawk in it, and have him on exhibition.  That's the idea.

Asa  [Down L. of Florence, overhearing.]  Oh!  that's your idea, is it?
Wal, stranger, I don't know what they're going to do with me,
but wherever they do put me, I hope it will be out of the reach of a jackass.
I'm a real hoss, I am, and I get kinder riley with those critters.

Dun  Now he thinks he's a horse.  I've heard of a great jackass,
and I dreampt of a jackass, but I don't believe there is any such insect.

Flo  Well, cousin, I hope you made yourself comfortable.

Asa  Well, no, I can't say as I did.  You see there was so many
all-fired fixins in my room I couldn't find anything I wanted.

Flo  What was it you couldn't find in your room?

Asa  There as no soft soap.

De B  Soft soap!

Aug  Soft soap!

Ver  Soft soap!

Mrs M  Soft soap!

Flo  Soft soap!

Geo  [On sofa.]  Soft soap!

Dun  Thoft thoap?

Asa  Yes, soft soap.  I reckon you know what that is.  However,
I struck a pump in the kitchen, slicked my hair down a little,
gave my boots a lick of grease, and now I feel quite handsome;
but I'm everlastingly dry.

Flo  You'll find ale, wine and luncheon on the side-table.

Asa  Wal, I don't know as I've got any appetite.  You see comin'
along on the cars I worried down half a dozen ham sandwiches,
eight or ten boiled eggs, two or three pumpkin pies and a string of
cold sausages--and--Wal, I guess I can hold on till dinner-time.

Dun  Did that illustrious exile eat all that?  I wonder where he put it?

Asa  I'm as dry as a sap-tree in August.

Binny  [Throwing open, E. D.]  Luncheon!

Asa  [Goes hastily up to table.]  Wal, I don't want to speak out
too plain, but this is an awful mean set out for a big house like this.

Flo  Why, what's wrong, sir?

Asa  Why, there's no mush!

Asa  Nary slapjack.

Dun  Why, does he want Mary to slap Jack?

Asa  No pork and beans!

Dun  Pork's been here, but he's left.

Asa  And where on airth's the clam chowder?

Dun  Where _is_ clam chowder?  He's never here when he's wanted.

Asa  [Drinks and spits.]  Here's your health, old hoss.
Do you call that a drink?  See here, cousin, you seem to be the
liveliest critter here, so just hurry up the fixins, and I'll
show this benighted aristocratic society what real liquor is.
So hurry up the fixins.

All  Fixins?

Flo  What do you mean by fixins?

Asa  Why, brandy, rum, gin and whiskey.  We'll make them all useful.

Flo  Oh, I'll hurry up the fixins.  What fun!  [Exit, R.]

Dun  Oh!  I thought he meant the gas fixins.

Asa  Say, you, you Mr. Puffy, you run out and get me a bunch of mint
and a bundle of straws; hurry up, old hoss. [Exit Binny, L. 3 E.,
indignantly.]  Say, Mr. Sailor man, just help me down with this table.
Oh! don't you get riley, you and I ran against each other when I came in,
but we'll be friends yet.  [Vernon helps him with table to C.]


Enter Florence, followed by servants in livery;  they carry a
case of decanters and water, on which are seven or eight glasses,
two or three tin mixers and a bowl of sugar.  Binny enters with a
bunch of mint and a few straws.


Flo  Here, cousin, are the fixins.

Asa  That's yer sort.  Now then, I'll give you all a drink that'll
make you squeal.  [To Binny]  Here, Puffy, just shake that up, faster.
I'll give that sick gal a drink that'll make her squirm like an
eel on a mud bank.

Dun  [Screams.]  What a horrible idea.  [Runs about stage.]

Flo  Oh, don't mind him!  That's only an American joke.

Dun  A joke!  Do you call that a joke?  To make a sick girl squirm like a
mud bank on an eel's skin?

Asa  Yes, I'll give you a drink that'll make your whiskers return under
your chin, which is their natural location.  Now, ladies and gentlemen,
what'll you have, Whiskey Skin, Brandy Smash, Sherry Cobbler, Mint Julep
or Jersey Lightning?

Aug  Oh, I want a Mint Julep.

De B  Give me a Gin Cocktail.

Flo  I'll take a Sherry Cobbler.

Ver  Brandy Smash for me.

Mrs M  Give me a Whiskey Skin.

Geo  I'll take a Lemonade.

Dun  Give me a Jersey Lightning.

Asa  Give him a Jersey Lightning.  [As Dundreary drinks]  Warranted
to kill at forty rods.  [Dundreary falls back on Mrs. M. and Georgina.]


Closed In.


Scene 2--Library in Trenchard Manor.  Oriel Window, L. C., with curtains.
Two chairs and table brought on at change.


Enter Binny and Coyle, L. 1 E.


Binny  Sir Hedward will see you directly, Mr. Coyle.

Coyle  Very well.  House full of company, I see, Mr. Binny.

Binny  Cram full, Mr. Coyle.  As one of the first families
in the country we must keep up our position.

Coyle  [Rubbing his hands.]  Certainly, certainly, that is
as long as we can, Mr. Binny.  Tell Murcott, my clerk,
to bring my papers in here.  You'll find him in the servant's hall,
and see that you keep your strong ale out of his way.
People who serve me must have their senses about them.

