Ten mile in twenty minutes! 'E done it, sir. That's true.
The only time we ever found what that 'ere 'orse could do.
Some say it wasn't 'ardly fair, and the papers made a fuss,
But 'e broke the ten-mile record, and that's good enough for us.

You see that 'orse's tail, sir? You don't! no more do we,
Which really ain't surprisin', for 'e 'as no tail to see;
That engine wore it off 'im before master made it stop,
And all the road was litter'd like a bloomin' barber's shop.

And master? Well, it cured 'im. 'E altered from that day,
And come back to 'is 'orses in the good old-fashioned way.
And if you wants to git the sack, the quickest way by far,
Is to 'int as 'ow you think 'e ought to keep a motorcar.


THE HARDEST PART I EVER PLAYED.

BY RE HENRY.


I come of an acting family. We all took to the stage as young ducks
take to the water; and though we are none of us geniuses,--yet we got
on.

My three brothers are at the present time starring, either in the
provinces or in America; my two elder sisters, having strutted and
fretted their hour upon the stage, are married to respectable City
men; I, Sybil Gascoigne, have acted almost as long as I can remember;
the little ones, Kate and Dick, are still at school, but when they
leave the first thing they do will be to look out for an engagement.

I do not think we were ever any of us very much in love with the
profession. We took things easily. Of course there were some parts we
liked better than others, but we played everything that came in our
way--Comedy, Farce, Melodrama. My elder sisters quitted the stage
before they had much time to distinguish themselves. They were each
in turn, on their marriage, honoured with a paragraph in the
principal dramatic papers, but no one said the stage had sustained an
irreparable loss, or that the profession was robbed of one of its
brightest ornaments.

I was following very much in my sisters' footsteps. The critics
always spoke well of me. I never got a slating in my life, but then
before the criticism was in print I could almost have repeated word
for word the phrases that would be used.

"Miss Gascoigne was painstaking and intelligent as usual."

"The part was safe in the hands of that promising young actress,
Sybil Gascoigne."

With opinions such as these I was well content. My salary was
regularly paid, I could always reckon on a good engagement, and even
if my profession failed me there was Jack to fall back upon, and Jack
was substantial enough to fall back upon with no risk of hurting
oneself. He was six feet two, with broad, square shoulders, and
arms--well, when Jack's arms were round you you felt as if you did
not want anything else in the world. At least, that is how I felt.
Jack ought to have been in the Life Guards, and he would have been
only a wealthy uncle offered to do something for him, and of course
such an offer was not to be refused, and the "something" turned out
to be a clerkship in the uncle's business "with a view to a
partnership" as the advertisements say. Now the business was not a
pretty or a romantic one--it had something to do with leather--but it
was extremely profitable, and as I looked forward to one day sharing
all Jack's worldly goods I did not grumble at the leather. Not that
Jack had ever yet said a word to me which I could construe into a
downright offer. He had looked, certainly, but then with eyes like
his there is no knowing what they may imply. They were dark blue
eyes, and his hair was bright brown, with a touch of yellow in it,
and his moustache was tawny, and his skin was sunburnt to a healthy
red. We had been introduced in quite the orthodox way. We had not
fallen in love across the footlights. He seldom came to see me act,
but sometimes he would drop in to supper, perhaps on his way from a
dinner or to a dance, and if I could make him stay with us until it
was too late to go to that dance, what a happy girl I used to be!

My mother, with the circumspection that belongs to mothers, told me
that he was only flirting, and that I had better turn my attention to
somebody else. Somebody else! As if any one were worth even looking
at after Jack Curtis. I pitied every girl who was not engaged to him.
How could my sisters be happy? Resigned, content, they might be; but
to be married and done for, and afterwards to meet Jack--well,
imagination failed me to depict the awfulness of such a calamity.

It was quite time he spoke--there can be no doubt of that; although
Jack Curtis was too charming to be bound by the rules which govern
ordinary mortals. Still, I could not help feeling uneasy and
apprehensive. How could I tell how he carried on at those gay and
festive scenes in which I was not included? A proud earl's lovely
daughter might be yearning to bestow her hand upon him. A duchess
might have marked him for her own. Possibly my jealous fears
exaggerated the importance of the society in which he moved, but it
seemed to me that if Jack had been bidden to a friendly dinner at
Buckingham Palace it was only what might be expected.

Well, there came a night when we expected Jack to supper and he
appeared not. Only, in his place, a few lines to say that he was
going to start at once for his holiday. A friend had just invited him
to join him on his yacht. He added in a postscript: "I will write
later." He did _not_ write. Hours, days, weeks passed, and not a word
did we hear. "It is a break-off," said my mother consolingly. "He had
got tired of us all, and he thought this the easiest way of letting
us know. I told you there was an understanding between him and Isabel
Chisholm--any one could see that with half an eye."

I turned away shuddering.

"Terrible gales," said my father, rustling the newspaper comfortably
in his easy chair. "Great disasters among the shipping. I shouldn't
wonder if the yacht young what's-his-name went out in were come to
grief."

I grew pale, and thin, and dispirited. I knew the ladies of our
company made nasty remarks about me. One day I overheard two of them
talking.

"She never was much of an actress, and now she merely walks through
her part. They never had any feeling for art, not one of those
Gascoigne girls."

No feeling for art! What a low, mean, spiteful, wicked thing to say.
And the worst of it was that it was so true.

I resolved at once that I would do something desperate. The last
piece brought out at our theatre had been a "frost." It had dragged
along until the advertisements were able to announce "Fifteenth Night
of the Great Realistic Drama." And various scathing paragraphs from
the papers were pruned down and weeded till they seemed unstinted
praise. Thus: "It was not the fault of the management that the new
play was so far from being a triumphant success," was cut down to one
modest sentence, "A triumphant success." "A few enthusiastic cheers
from personal friends alone broke the ominous silence when the
curtain fell," became briefly "Enthusiastic cheers."

But nobody was deceived. One week the public were informed that they
could book their seats a month in advance; the next that the
successful drama had to be withdrawn at the height of its popularity,
owing to other arrangements. What the other arrangements were to be
our manager was at his wit's end to decide. There only wanted three
weeks to the close of the season. Fired with a wild ambition born of
suspense and disappointment, I suggested that Shakespeare should fill
the breach. "Romeo and Juliet," with me, Sybil Gascoigne, as the
heroine.

"Pshaw!" said our good-humoured manager, "you do not know what you
are talking about. Juliet! You have not the depth, the temperament,
the experience for a Juliet. She had more knowledge of life at
thirteen than most of our English maids have at thirty. To represent
Juliet correctly an actress must have the face and figure of a young
girl, with the heart and mind of a woman, and of a woman who has
suffered."

"And have I not suffered? Do you think because you see me tripping
through some foolish, insipid _rôle_ that I am capable of nothing
better? Give me a chance and see what I can do."

            "Oh! bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,"

I began, and declaimed the speech with such despairing vigour that
our manager was impressed.

Well, the end of it was that he yielded to my suggestion.

It seemed a prosperous time to float a new Juliet. At a
neighbouring theatre a lovely foreign actress was playing the part
nightly to crowded houses. We might get some of the overflow, or the
public would come for the sake of comparing native with imported
talent. Oh! the faces of my traducers, who had said, "Those
Gascoigne girls have no feeling for art," when it was known that they
were out of the bill, and that Sybil Gascoigne was to play
Shakespeare. I absolutely forgot Jack for one moment. But the next,
my grief, my desolation, were present with me with more acuteness
than ever. And I was glad that it was so. Such agony as I was
enduring would surely make me play Juliet as it had never been played
before.

At rehearsals I could see I created a sensation. I felt that I was
grand in my hapless love, my desperate grief. I should make myself a
name. If Jack were dead or had forsaken me, my art should be all in
all.

The morning before the all important evening dawned, I had lain awake
nearly an hour, as my custom was of nights how, thinking of Jack,
wondering if ever woman had so much cause to grieve as I. Then I
rose, practised taking the friar's potion, and throwing myself upon
the bed, until my mother came up and told me to go to sleep, or my
eyes would be red and hollow in the morning. But I told my mother
that hollow eyes and pale cheeks were necessary to me now--that my
career depended upon the depths of my despair.

"To-morrow, mother, let no one disturb me on any account. Keep away
letters, newspapers, everything. Tomorrow I am Juliet or nothing."

My mother promised, and I got some hours of undisturbed slumber.

Rehearsal was over--the last rehearsal. I had gone through my part
thinking of my woes. I had swallowed the draught as if it had indeed
been a potion to put me out of all remembrance of my misery. I had
snatched the dagger and stabbed myself with great satisfaction, and I
felt I should at least have the comfort of confounding my enemies and
triumphing over them.

I was passing Charing Cross Station, delayed by the streams of
vehicles issuing forth, when in a hansom at a little distance I saw a
form--a face--which made me start and tremble, and turn hot and cold,
and red and white, all at the same time. It could not be Jack. It
ought not, must not, should not be Jack. Had I not to act in
suffering and despair to-night? Well, even if he had returned in
safety from his cruise it was without a thought of me in his heart.
He was engaged--married--for aught I knew. It was possible, nay,
certain, that I should never see him again.

And yet I ran all the way home. And yet I told the servant
breathlessly--"If any visitors call I do not wish to be disturbed."
And yet I made my mother repeat the promise she had given me the
previous night. Then I flew to my den at the top of the house; bolted
myself in, and set a chair against the door as if I were afraid of
anyone making a forcible entry. I stuffed my fingers in my ears, and
went over my part with vigour, with more noise even than was
absolutely necessary. Still, how strangely I seemed to hear every
sound. A hansom passing--no, a hansom drawing up at our house. I went
as far from the window as possible. I wedged myself up between the
sofa and the wall, and I shut my eyes firmly. Surely there were
unaccustomed sounds about, talking and laughing, as if something
pleasant had happened. Presently heavy footsteps came bounding up,
two steps at a time. Oh! should I have the courage not to answer if
it should be Jack?

But it was not. Kitty's voice shouted--

"Sybil, Sybil, come down. Here's----"

"Kitty, be quiet," I called out furiously. "If you do not hold your
tongue, if you do not go away from the door immediately, I'll--I'll
shoot you."

She went away, and I heard her telling them downstairs that she
believed Sybil had gone mad.

I waited a little longer,--then I stole to the window.

Surely Juliet would not be spoiled by the sight of a visitor leaving
the house. But there was no one leaving. Indeed, I saw the prospect
of a fresh arrival--Isabel Chisholm was coming up the street in a
brand new costume and hat to match. Her fringe was curled to
perfection. A tiny veil was arranged coquettishly just above her
nose. Flesh and blood could not stand this. Downstairs I darted,
without even waiting for a look in the glass. Into the drawing-room I
bounced, and there, in his six feet two of comely manliness, stood
Jack, my Jack, more bronzed and handsome and loveable than ever. He
whom I had been mourning for by turns as dead and faithless, but whom
I now knew was neither; for he came towards me with both hands
outstretched, and he held mine in such a loving clasp, and he looked
at me with eyes which I knew were reading just such another tale as
that written on his own face.

Then when the knock sounded which heralded Miss Chisholm, he said:--

"Come into another room, Sybil; I have so much to say to you."

And in that other room he told me of his adventures and perils, and
how through them all he had thought of me and wondered, if he never
came back alive, whether I should be sorry, and, if he did come back,
whether I would promise to be his darling little wife, very, very
soon.

But all this, though far more beautiful than poet ever wrote, was not
Shakespeare, and I was to act Juliet at night--Juliet the wretched,
the heartbroken--while my own spirits were dancing, and my pulses
bounding with joy and delight unutterable.

Well, I need hardly tell you my Juliet was not a success. I was
conscious of tripping about the stage in an airy, elated way, which
was allowable only during the earlier scenes; but when I should have
been tragic and desperate, I was still brimming over with new found
joy. All through Juliet's grand monologue, where she swallows the
poison, ran the refrain--"Jack has come home, I am going to marry
Jack." I had an awful fear once that I mixed two names a little, and
called on Jackimo when I should have said Romeo, and when my speech
was over and I lay motionless on the bed, I gave myself up to such
delightful thoughts that Capulet or the Friar, I forget which,
bending over the couch to assure himself that I was really dead,
whispered--

"Keep quiet, you're grinning."

I was very glad when the play was over. We often read the reverse
side of the picture--of how the clown cracks jokes while his heart is
breaking; perhaps his only mother-in-law passing away without his
arms to support her. But no one has ever written of the Juliet who
goes through terror, suffering, and despair, to the tune of "Jack's
returned, I'm going to marry Jack."


THE STORY OF MR. KING.

BY DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY.


This is the story of Mr. King,
  American citizen--Phineas K.,
  Whom I met in Orkhanié, far away
From freshening cocktail and genial sling.
A little man with twinkling eyes,
And a nose like a hawk's, and lips drawn thin,
  And a little imperial stuck on his chin,
  And about him always a cheerful grin,
Dashed with a comic and quaint surprise.

That very night a loot of wine
  Made correspondents and doctors glad,
And the little man, unask'd to dine,
  Sat down and shar'd in all we had.
For none said nay, this ready hand
  Reach'd after pillau, and fowl, and drink,
  And he toss'd off his liquor without a wink,
And wielded a knife like a warrior's brand.
With a buccaneering, swaggering look
  He sang his song, and he crack'd his jest,
And he bullied the waiter and curs'd the cook
With a charming self-approving zest.

We wanted doctors: he was a doctor;
  Had we wanted a prince it had been the same.
Admiral, general, cobbler, proctor--
  A man may be anything. What's in a name?
The wounded were dying, the dead lay thick
In the hospital beds beside the quick.
Any man with a steady nerve
  And a ready hand, who knew how to obey,
In those stern times might well deserve
  His fifty piastres daily pay.

So Mr. King, as assistant surgeon,
  Bandaged, and dosed, and nursed, and dressed,
  And worked, as he ate and drank, with zest,
Until he began to blossom and burgeon
To redness of features and fulness of cheek,
And his starven hands grew plump and sleek.
But for all sign of wealth he wore
He swaggered neither less nor more.
He talked the stuff he talked before,
And bragged as he had bragged of yore,
With his Yankee chaff and his Yankee slang,
And his Yankee bounce and his Yankee twang.
And, to tell the truth, we all held clear
Of the impudent little adventurer;
And any man with an eye might see
That, though he bore it merrily,
He recognised the tacit scorn
Which dwelt about him night and morn.

The Turks fought well, as most men fight
  For life and faith, and hearth and home.
But, from Teliche and Etrepol, left and right,
  The Muscov swirled, like the swirling foam
On the rack of a tempest driven sea.
  And foot by foot staunch Mehemit Ali
  Was driven along the Lojan valley,
  Till he sat his battered forces down
  Just northward of the little town,
And waited on war's destiny.

War's destiny came, and line by line
  His forces broke and fled.
And for three days in Orkhanié town
The arabas went up and down
  With loads of dying and dead;
Till at last in a rush of panic fear,
The hardest bitten warriors there
Turn'd with the cowardly Bazouk
And the vile Tchircasse and forsook
The final fort, in headlong flight,
For near Kamirli's sheltering height;
While through the darkness of the night
  The cannon belched their hate
Against the flying crowd; and far
And near the soldiers of the Tsar
Pour'd onward towards the spoil of war
  In haste precipitate.

And the little adventurer sat in a shed
With one woman dying, and one woman dead.
Nothing he knew of the late defeat,
Nothing of Mehemit's enforced retreat;
For he spoke no word of the Turkish tongue,
And had seen no Englishman all day long.
So he sat there, calm, with a flask of rum,
And a cigarette 'twixt finger and thumb,
Tranquilly smoking, and watching the smoke,
And probably hatching some stupid joke,
When in at the door, without a word,
Burst a Circassian, hand on sword.
And the sword leapt out of its sheath, as a flame
  Breaks from the coals when the fire is stirred.
And Mr. King, with a "What's _your_ game?"
  Faced the Tchircasse with the wild-beast eyes.
"Naow, what do you want?" said Mr. King.
  Quoth the savage, in English, "The woman dies!"
"Waat," said the impostor, "you'll take your fling,
At least in the first case, along of a son
Of Columbia, daughter of Albion."

The Tchircasse moved to the side of the bed.
  A distaff was leaning against the wall,
    And Mr. King, with arms at length,
    Gave it a swing, with all his strength,
And crashed it full at the villain's head,
  And dropped him, pistols and daggers and all.
Then sword in hand, he raged through the door,
And there were three hundred savages more,
All hungry for murder, and loot, and worse!

Mr. King bore down with an oath and a curse,
  Bore down on the chief with the slain man's sword
He saw at a glance the state of the case;
  He knew without need of a single word
That the Turk had flown and the Russ was near,
  And the Tchircasse held _his_ midday revel;
So he laid himself out to curse and swear,
  And he raged like an eloquent devil.

They listen'd, in a mute surprise,
  Amaz'd that any single man should dare
  Harangue an armed crowd with such an air,
And such commanding anger in his eyes;
Till, thinking him at least an English lord,
The Tchircasse leader lower'd his sword,
Spoke a few words in his own tongue, and bow'd,
And slowly rode away with all his men.
Then Mr. King turn'd to his task again:
Sought a rough araba with bullocks twain;
Haled up the unwilling brutes with might and main,
Laid the poor wounded woman gently down,
And calmly drove her from the rescued town!

And Mr. King, when we heard the story,
Was a little abash'd by the hero's glory;
And, "Look you here, you boys; you may laff
But I ain't the man to start at chaff.
I know without any jaw from you,
'Twas a darned nonsensical thing to do;
But I tell you plain--and I mean it, too--
For all it was such a ridiculous thing,
I should do it again!" said Mr. King.


THE ART OF "POETRY."

FROM "TOWN TOPICS."

I ask not much! but let th' "dank wynd" moan,
  "Shimmer th' woold" and "rive the wanton surge;"
I ask not much; grant but an "eery drone,"
  Some "wilding frondage" and a "bosky dirge;"
Grant me but these, and add a regal flush
  Of "sundered hearts upreared upon a byre;"
Throw in some yearnings and a "darksome hush,"
  And--asking nothing more--I'll smite th' lyre.

Yea, I will smite th' falt'ring, quiv'ring strings,
  And magazines shall buy my murky stunts;
Too long I've held my hand to honest things,
  Too long I've borne rejections and affronts;
Now will I be profound and recondite,
  Yea, working all th' symbols and th' "props;"
Now will I write of "morn" and "yesternight;"
  Now will I gush great gobs of soulful slops.

Yea, I will smite! Grant me but "swerveless wynd,"
  And I will pipe a cadence rife with thrills;
With "nearness" and "foreverness" I'll bind
  A "downflung sheaf" of outslants, pæans and trills;
Pass me th' "quenchless gleam of Titian hair,"
  And eke th' "oozing forest's woozy clumps;"
Now will I go upon a metric tear
  And smite th' lyre with great resounding thumps.


THE KING OF BRENTFORD'S TESTAMENT.

W. M. THACKERAY.

    The noble King of Brentford
      Was old and very sick,
    He summon'd his physicians
      To wait upon him quick:
    They stepp'd into their coaches
      And brought their best physick.

    They cramm'd their gracious master
      With potion and with pill;
    They drenched him and they bled him:
      They could not cure his ill.
    "Go fetch," says he, "my lawyer;
      I'd better make my will."

    The monarch's Royal mandate
      The lawyer did obey;
    The thought of six-and-eightpence
      Did make his heart full gay.
    "What is't," says he, "your Majesty
      Would wish of me to-day?"

    "The doctors have belabour'd me
      With potion and with pill:
    My hours of life are counted,
      O man of tape and quill!
    Sit down and mend a pen or two;
      I want to make my will.

    "O'er all the land of Brentford
      I'm lord, and eke of Kew:
    I've three-per-cents and five-per-cents;
      My debts are but a few;
    And to inherit after me
      I have but children two.

    "Prince Thomas is my eldest son;
      A sober prince is he,
    And from the day we breech'd him
      Till now--he's twenty-three--
    He never caused disquiet
      To his poor mamma or me.

    "At school they never flogg'd him;
      At college, though not fast,
    Yet his little-go and great-go
      He creditably pass'd,
    And made his year's allowance
      For eighteen months to last.

    "He never owed a shilling,
      Went never drunk to bed,
    He has not two ideas
      Within his honest head--
    In all respects he differs
      From my second son, Prince Ned.

    "When Tom has half his income
      Laid by at the year's end,
    Poor Ned has ne'er a stiver
      That rightly he may spend,
    But sponges on a tradesman,
      Or borrows from a friend.

    "While Tom his legal studies
      Most soberly pursues,
    Poor Ned must pass his mornings
      A-dawdling with the Muse:
    While Tom frequents his banker,
      Young Ned frequents the Jews.

    "Ned drives about in buggies,
      Tom sometimes takes a 'bus;
    Ah, cruel fate, why made you
      My children differ thus?
    Why make of Tom a _dullard_,
      And Ned a _genius_?'

    "You'll cut him with a shilling,"
      Exclaimed the man of writs:
    "I'll leave my wealth," said Brentford,
      "Sir Lawyer, as befits,
    And portion both their fortunes
      Unto their several wits."

    "Your Grace knows best," the lawyer said;
      "On your commands I wait."
    "Be silent, sir," says Brentford,
      "A plague upon your prate!
    Come take your pen and paper,
      And write as I dictate."

    The will as Brentford spoke it
      Was writ and signed and closed;
    He bade the lawyer leave him,
      And turn'd him round and dozed;
    And next week in the churchyard
      The good old King reposed.

    Tom, dressed in crape and hatband,
      Of mourners was the chief;
    In bitter self-upbraidings
      Poor Edward showed his grief:
    Tom hid his fat white countenance
      In his pocket-handkerchief.

    Ned's eyes were full of weeping,
      He falter'd in his walk;
    Tom never shed a tear,
      But onwards he did stalk,
    As pompous, black, and solemn
      As any catafalque.

    And when the bones of Brentford--
      That gentle King and just--
    With bell and book and candle
      Were duly laid in dust,
    "Now, gentlemen," says Thomas,
      "Let business be discussed.

    "When late our sire beloved
      Was taken deadly ill,
    Sir Lawyer, you attended him
      (I mean to tax your bill);
    And, as you signed and wrote it,
      I prithee read the will"

    The lawyer wiped his spectacles,
      And drew the parchment out;
    And all the Brentford family
      Sat eager round about:
    Poor Ned was somewhat anxious,
      But Tom had ne'er a doubt.

    "My son, as I make ready
      To seek my last long home,
    Some cares I have for Neddy,
      But none for thee, my Tom:
    Sobriety and order
      You ne'er departed from.

    "Ned hath a brilliant genius,
      And thou a plodding brain;
    On thee I think with pleasure,
      On him with doubt and pain."
    ("You see, good Ned," says Thomas,
      "What he thought about us twain.")

    "Though small was your allowance,
      You saved a little store;
    And those who save a little
      Shall get a plenty more."
    As the lawyer read this compliment,
      Tom's eyes were running o'er.

    "The tortoise and the hare, Tom,
      Set out at each his pace;
    The hare it was the fleeter,
      The tortoise won the race;
    And since the world's beginning
      This ever was the case.

    "Ned's genius, blithe and singing,
      Steps gaily o'er the ground;
    As steadily you trudge it,
      He clears it with a bound;
    But dulness has stout legs, Tom,
      And wind that's wondrous sound.

    "O'er fruit and flowers alike, Tom,
      You pass with plodding feet;
    You heed not one nor t'other,
      But onwards go your beat;
    While genius stops to loiter
      With all that he may meet;

    "And ever as he wanders,
      Will have a pretext fine
    For sleeping in the morning,
      Or loitering to dine,
    Or dozing in the shade,
      Or basking in the shine.

    "Your little steady eyes, Tom,
      Though not so bright as those
    That restless round about him
      His flashing genius throws,
    Are excellently suited
      To look before your nose.

    "Thank Heaven, then, for the blinkers
      It placed before your eyes;
    The stupidest are strongest,
      The witty are not wise;
    Oh, bless your good stupidity!
      It is your dearest prize.

    "And though my lands are wide,
      And plenty is my gold,
    Still better gifts from Nature,
      My Thomas, do you hold--
    A brain that's thick and heavy,
      A heart that's dull and cold.

    "Too dull to feel depression,
      Too hard to heed distress,
    Too cold to yield to passion
      Or silly tenderness.
    March on--your road is open
      To wealth, Tom, and success.

    "Ned sinneth in extravagance,
      And you in greedy lust."
    ("I' faith," says Ned, "our father
      Is less polite than just.")
    "In you, son Tom, I've confidence,
      But Ned I cannot trust.

    "Wherefore my lease and copyholds,
      My lands and tenements,
    My parks, my farms, and orchards,
      My houses and my rents,
    My Dutch stock and my Spanish stock,
      My five and three per cents,

    "I leave to you, my Thomas"--
      ("What, all?" poor Edward said,
    "Well, well, I should have spent them,
      And Tom's a prudent head ")--
    "I leave to you, my Thomas,--
      To you IN TRUST for Ned."

    The wrath and consternation
      What poet e'er could trace
    That at this fatal passage
      Came o'er Prince Tom his face;
    The wonder of the company,
      And honest Ned's amaze?

    "'Tis surely some mistake,"
      Good-naturedly cries Ned;
    The lawyer answered gravely,
      "'Tis even as I said;
    'Twas thus his gracious Majesty
      Ordain'd on his death-bed.

    "See, here the will is witness'd
      And here's his autograph."
    "In truth, our father's writing,"
      Says Edward with a laugh;
    "But thou shalt not be a loser, Tom;
      We'll share it half and half."

    "Alas! my kind young gentleman,
      This sharing cannot be;
    'Tis written in the testament
      That Brentford spoke to me,
    'I do forbid Prince Ned to give
      Prince Tom a halfpenny.

    "'He hath a store of money,
      But ne'er was known to lend it;
    He never helped his brother;
      The poor he ne'er befriended;
    He hath no need of property
      Who knows not how to spend it.

    "'Poor Edward knows but how to spend,
      And thrifty Tom to hoard;
    Let Thomas be the steward then,
      And Edward be the lord;
    And as the honest labourer
      Is worthy his reward,

    "'I pray Prince Ned, my second son,
      And my successor dear,
    To pay to his intendant
      Five hundred pounds a year;
    And to think of his old father,
      And live and make good cheer.'"

Such was old Brentford's honest testament.
  He did devise his moneys for the best,
  And lies in Brentford church in peaceful rest.
Prince Edward lived, and money made and spent;
  But his good sire was wrong, it is confess'd,
To say his son, young Thomas, never lent.
  He did. Young Thomas lent at interest,
And nobly took his twenty-five per cent.

Long time the famous reign of Ned endured
  O'er Chiswick, Fulham, Brentford, Putney, Kew,
But of extravagance he ne'er was cured.
And when both died, as mortal men will do,
'Twas commonly reported that the steward
  Was very much the richer of the two.


UNIVERSALLY RESPECTED.

BY J. BRUNTON STEPHENS.


I.

Biggs was missing: Biggs had vanished; all the town was in a ferment;
  For if ever man was looked to for an edifying end,
With due mortuary outfit, and a popular interment,
It was Biggs, the universal guide, philosopher, and friend.

But the man had simply vanished; speculation wove no tissue
  That would hold a drop of water; each new theory fell flat.
It was most unsatisfactory, and  hanging on the issue
  Were a thousand wagers ranging from a pony to a hat.

