This is the object, and this approachment is threefold: 1. In his inward
man. 2. In his outward man. 3. In both. 1. In his inward man; in heart,
by drawing close to God, enjoying a sensible and blessed communion with
Him, which is comfortable in such a degree that, where it is felt, it
needs no bidding to make an engagement. 2. In his outward man, in his
person approaching to God in the practice of all duties commanded; God
in His ordinances is powerfully present, man in their use stands within
this presence. 3. In both, in all his abilities approaching to Him in
managing His holy cause; and therefore holy, because His. God walks in
the midst of His people's armies: when thy sons, O Zion, "are armed
against thy sons," O Greece, "the Lord God is seen over them." These are
those approachings of the saints to their God: the first is their
happiness, the second their duty, the third their honour. It is a happy
thing to enjoy God's comforts in soul; it is our enjoined duty to obey
Him in His ways, and it is an honour to be found standing for the way of
righteousness.

Of the third. The inquiry, "who is this?"

Scripture questions are of several uses, hold forth several senses; here
it seems to be an approbation of the action spoken of. Who is this? What
one is this, that so carefully engageth his heart? This is not ordinary
among men, nor of an ordinary degree in man; few move, fewer engage
themselves to move towards God. This approbation hath, 1. Its foundation
in a duty: I approve this engaging, and the man because he engageth. 2.
Its direction from the subject, heart. The engagement of the outward man
may have wrong principles: that it may be right, let the heart, soul,
inward parts, all that is within us be engaged to bless His holy name.
3. Its limitation from the object, to approach unto me: to engage the
heart to sin, to the creature, to vanity, is neither commendable, nor
approvable; but to close with God, to come to, stay with, and act for
Him, this is that which the prophet, and God in the mouth of the prophet
ever approves. And this brings us to,


II.--_The propounding of the point, and that in these words._

God observes with the eye of approbation, such as engage and tie
themselves to Him; He looks with an approving eye upon this carefulness:
for such an engagement of soul is, 1. Needful. 2. Helpful; needful for
the heart, helpful to our graces.

The needfulness is evident. The heart is slow and subtile, backward and
deceitful; except it be drawn with the cords of such an engagement, it
puts slowly forward; and when thus drawn, it will fall quickly off. Days
of desolation beget resolves, times of terror produce engagements, which
the heart (the storm past) will wilily and wickedly seek to evade. David
suspected this cozenage in himself, when he cries out, Oh! I have many
good thoughts, but a naughty heart; many holy purposes, but a deceitful
spirit: thou hast cause, as a Creator, not to believe the tender of my
obedience, nor as a just God, the promise of submission; but I call to
Thy mercy to give assistance. "Be surety for Thy servant for good:" for
the performance of all good I promise. And Hezekiah in his sickness was
not without fear of this deceitfulness: "Oh Lord, I am oppressed,
undertake for me;" I shall never keep my word, that word which my lips
have spoken; and I have none dare pass his word for me: "do thou, O
Lord, undertake for me."

2. The helpfulness is undeniable; a heart from this engagement may fetch
renewed strength continually. This engagement is a buckler of defence to
arm us against Satan's enticement, is armour of proof to withstand the
world's inducement; it makes us without fear or failing stand upon our
own ground, and renew our courage like the eagle. Job was probably
sometimes seduced with such foolish persuasions, to courses not less
foolish, but he yielded not: what helped him? even his engagement: "I
have made a covenant with mine eyes, how then shall I look on a maid?"
Constancy in good is well-pleasing to God; "If any draw back, His soul
hath no pleasure in them." Whatsoever then is needful for it, or helpful
to it, He both prescribes and approves. O let us engage our hearts to
this approachment, a duty enjoined, a sacrifice accepted.

But there is one scripture that fully showeth the point, and the truth
of it in all particulars. Consider then. Three things may seem necessary
herein to be noted; the act, the approbation, and the reason; and here
we have them all.

1. The act, engaging; or the persons, the engagers of themselves. Thou
hast avouched, set up God this day to be thy God, not only in thy
conscience by the act of faith, but even by thy mouth thou hast uttered
this, probably in some solemn league and covenant. "Thou hast made to
say:" so much the Hebrew word imports.

2. The approbation; and God answers thee accordingly, He hath avouched,
set up thee to be His people; particularly to two privileges; 1. To be
His peculiar people, the people of His own proper possession, joined so
high, united so near, that they are admitted to a participation of many
heavenly privileges; the actions of the one being communicated to the
other; man's prayer is called God's, "I will make them glad in the house
of My prayer," God's people called man's, Moses's people, Moses's law:
so in the law of God, and in his law, that is, the righteous man's law.
2. To keep His commands: this seems rather to be a duty than a
prerogative, yet a prerogative it is for a Christian to be holy,
obedient, righteous: both directly, and accidently. 1. Directly; the
scripture teacheth so. The fruit of a Christian's being made free from
sin is unto holiness. "If you will fear the Lord and serve Him" (these
are Samuel's words to the people) "and not rebel:" what then? what shall
we have? "Then shall you and your king continue to follow the Lord."
Solomon, setting down the recompence of a righteous person, saith, his
reward shall be double, in himself, and in his posterity; in himself,
"he shall walk on in his integrity," in his posterity, "they shall be
blessed after him." 2. Accidently: holiness is a privilege, as well as a
duty; it is a reward, a benefit to him who walks therein. It may, and
oft doth daunt their persecutors, that otherwise would have taken away
their lives. The heathens observe that the majestic presence of a prince
hath dashed the boldness, and so prevented the execution of some
villanous attempt by a base traitor against their persons: and
Christians know that the power of holiness is able to dazzle the
proudest spirits. Herod, saith the text, "feared John," and so a long
while did him no hurt. And the emperor Adrian ceased his persecution
against the Christians of his time, when he understood of their holiness
of life. So true it is both ways, that the punishment of sin is sin, and
the reward of the command is the command.

Both these privileges are again repeated, and further are evidenced in
the following verse; "Thou art His peculiar people, therefore will He
make thee high above all nations, in praise, name and honour, of more
esteem than any; and, thou keepest His commandments, and so He advanceth
thee to be a holy people unto the Lord thy God:" all this evidenceth
God's approbation of an engaging heart.

3. The reason and ground of God's approving this act, they are two. 1.
Because the matter or duties, to which by this bond the heart is tied,
are such as God directly observes with an approving eye. The particulars
are three here specified, and all elsewhere expressly subjected to this
eye of God. _1st._ Thou obligest thyself to walk in His ways, in the
practice of all the duties of the second table; and upon such as depart
from evil, and do good, upon such righteous ones, the eyes of the Lord
are fastened, not His omniscient eye, but His protecting, blessing eye,
that eye the seeing whereof is of the same temper with the open ear
following: "His eye is upon the righteous, and His ear open to their
cry;" that eye which stands in opposition to His face, which is against
the wicked. _2d._ And to observe His ordinances and judgments,
reverently to practise all the duties of the first table to God, and to
such also God casts His eye of respect: "The eye of the Lord is upon
those that fear Him, and that hope in His mercy." _3d._ And to hearken
to the means of both, to hear His voice: "When I counsel thee and
instruct thee in the way that thou shouldst go, Mine eye is upon thee,
both to keep thee to it, and to bless thee in it." 2. Because this
engagement is a means to accomplish His promise: because thou hast
avouched God, God hath avouched thee, and will do as He hath said, and
again, as He hath said; the repetition whereof seems to argue
contentedness in God, in that, by this avouchment, a way was opened for
the accomplishment of His promise. "God is well pleased for His
righteousness sake," delights, when He can evidence Himself to be
righteous and just, for the law and words of His mouth He will magnify
and make honourable in the faithfulness of their accomplishment. Mercy,
the acts of mercy please Him. God finds in a righteous man rest of
spirit, because by him He sends down a full influence of His favour upon
the world. "If the world knew (say some Hebrew doctors,) of what worth a
righteous man was, they would hedge him about with pearls." His life is
beneficial to all, even in some sort to God Himself; for by him mercy is
shewn to the world: his death therefore is of great consequence; a
greater affliction than those curses mentioned; "I will make thy plagues
wonderful; thy heavens shall be brass, they shall distil no dew nor
rain to water the earth; but I will do a marvellous thing, a marvellous
and strange, a good man, a wise man shall be taken away; and I can send
no more blessings upon you:" There remains not a heart engaged, to whom
I delight to approach; whiles such were, mine eye was satisfied with
seeing good, my heart with doing good; now the one is removed, the other
stopped. O where is he that engageth his heart to approach to his God!


III.--_The examining of the Duty._

This engagement being thus approved, and therefore to be entered on; let
us a little examine the duty, and mind two things. 1. What particulars
do engage us, by what acts or thoughts doth the heart become engaged?
And, 2. What hinders this engagement, and stops our entrance thereupon?

I. Several and many ways doth the heart become engaged to God: no
consideration can enter our hearts, no occurrent happen in our lives,
but it offers reasons enforcing this duty. We are engaged to God by our
being, by our receiving, by our doing: mind either, and acknowledge
thyself engaged.

1. Our being what we are, engageth us: _1st._ That we are creatures, and
so not forgotten in the everlasting night of a not-being: that we are
men, and not beasts; that we are Christians, and not heathens; all are
engagements. _2d._ But our being thus and thus; men of gifts and parts:
placed in such callings; qualified with such endowments: interested in
such privileges: these are engagements indeed.

2. What we have. _1st._ Every thing we have received binds us; all the
acts of God's providence over us; all the effects of God's goodness to
us: health, food, callings, trades, friends, families, clothes, the
service of the creatures; sun, rain, fruits of the earth: all, all these
are bonds. _2d._ But especially, our more peculiar favours; inward
experience of His love, and fruition of soul-communion with Him: Oh,
who would not be engaged for this!

3. What we do, even our own actions become our obligations; and that
which comes from us binds us. _1st._ Our feeling prayers. Who dare
practise what he prays against? A prayer against the power of sin,
obliges to walk in the power of that prayer; neither will any lightly
omit what but late as an evil he hath confessed to God. _2d._ But
especially (which is our present work) our solemn and serious vows,
protestations, promises; our covenant in baptism, our particular
covenants entered into, upon the apprehension of some approaching
calamity, upon a day of humiliation, at a piercing sermon, or
soul-searching prayer before a sacrament, or the like. If we have spoken
with our lips, we cannot go back, we are engaged.

II. As for such things that may hinder, we should both note and avoid.
1. Ignorance: "If thou knewest the gift of God," saith Christ to the
Samaritan woman: want of praying comes from want of knowing. "Have you
received the Holy Ghost?" was Paul's question, but the reply was, that
could not be; we "have not so much as heard, whether there be a Holy
Ghost, or no." Have you engaged your souls in a solemn league? Let this
be our querry, and the answer will be, We have not so much as heard,
whether there be such a duty, or no. Ignorance hinders this bond. 2.
Wretched profaneness, which slights and sets at nought all duties,
ordinary, extraordinary; such mind sin, and the fulfilling thereof; and
bind themselves to mischief with cords of vanity; whilst in the mean
time they are contented to sit loose from God. 3. Wicked policy, both to
avoid the taking, and to evade the keeping: scruples of conscience shall
be pretended by such as know not what conscience means. Scripture shall
be alleged, by such as are little versed therein; this sentence shall be
thus explained: this releasement shall be thus pretended: all is but
seemingly to stop the mouth of conscience, that saith, they must both
make and pay vows unto God. Yet the wilfully ignorant will neglect it;
the wretchedly profane will contemn it; the wickedly politic will avoid
it; so the heart shall be left to its own swing, open to all corruption
that breaks in like a flood. For the prevention whereof, let us come on
to


IV.--_Encouragements to the practice._

The point thus propounded, and in several particulars described, wherein
and whereby the soul may be engaged; there is nothing remaining, but the
practice of it, and that is yours. Up then, and be doing; disoblige
yourselves, and be no longer servants to the world, to sin, to obey
either in the lusts thereof; but be ye bound to serve righteousness, and
the God of righteousness; for His service is perfect freedom. In this
encouragement to this work, that I might do as much as I can, in this
little time granted, and gained for preparation and delivery; I would
advise, exhort, resolve, and so prevent irreverence, backwardness, and
doubting; that neither the ignorant may profane, nor the refractory
contemn, nor the scrupulous question this holy ordinance of God, as
unholy needless, ambiguous. Let this encouragement then be received in
words: 1. Cautionary. 2. Hortatory. 3. Satisfactory.

1. _Cautionary._--Let this great work be done judiciously, cautiously,
and as an ordinance of God. Take we heed therefore, 1. To the manner. 2.
To the matter. 3. To the consequence.

1. _To the manner._ See that it be done; 1. Cheerfully. 2. Religiously.

_First_, Cheerfully and willingly; for so did the people of Israel in
their covenanting with God: "They swore unto the Lord with a loud voice,
with shoutings, and trumpets, and music, and they rejoiced because of
the oath." God loves a cheerful giver, His heart is toward those that
willingly offer themselves to the work of the Lord. And here, let me
not conceal the mercy of the Lord to us, in the work now in hand; for
why should not the Lord have the glory of all His favours? God hath
directed our hearts to this duty, cheered up our affections to this
engagement. Who almost sees not His hand in all this? This cheerfulness
and forwardness I now call for, I did, I do, I hope, I shall see.

1st. _I did see._ Which of us, brethren, hath not his heart yet
rejoicing, but even to think upon this work, this last Monday in this
place? Here was cheerfulness: who was not glad to see it? Who was not
encouraged to it? Here was a willing people freely offering themselves
to be bound to the Lord. Here was rejoicing; 1. In the performance: The
like duty was never seen in our days within this land. It was, I am
persuaded, the very birth-day of this kingdom, born anew to comfort and
success; our hearts were then so elevated, they are not settled yet. 2.
For the performance of such a duty, in such a manner, by such persons.
You might here have seen the Hon. House of Commons, unanimously, with
hearts and hands lifted up to the heavens, swearing to the Most High
God. Here might you have seen our dear brethren, the noble and learned
Commissioners of Scotland, willingly coming into this covenant of truth,
as the representatives of, and a pledge for the whole kingdom. Here
might you have seen the grave and reverend Assembly of Divines,
forwardly countenancing others, willingly submitting themselves to this
bond of the Lord. What I then saw, and now rehearse, most of you can
attest. Ask your fathers, consult with the aged of our times, whether
ever such a thing were done in their days, or in the days of their
fathers before them.

2d, _I do see;_ and believe the like now: I have ground to be persuaded,
that you also come with alacrity to this service. 1. The order for the
taking, honours you with this, that you were desirous of yourselves,
without compulsion, to take this upon you: blessed therefore be you of
the Lord, and blessed be the Lord for you. 2. The fulness of this
present assembly, called only for this end, for this duty. The nature of
your persons. Nobles, knights, gentlemen, submit themselves to the yoke
of the Lord. Colonels, captains, officers in the army, soldiers; even
these also stand not off from, but close to, and for this work in hand.
Those of the Scots nation within this city, by their willingness, do
give a check to this cavil raised by some, who have nothing else to say,
yet say this, perhaps the kingdom of Scotland will not take it. We can
instance in none, none that I know here. The ministers of the Lord, that
have refuged themselves to this little sanctuary, both increase and
honour the number of them that swear, their own callings, and
themselves. All these, as they have forwardly offered, so doubtless will
earnestly repair, in their lot, the breaches made in the Lord's house.
Here is cheerfulness.

3d, I hope, I shall see and hear, the next Lord's day, or the next
convenient time, all our people readily coming into this bond; that so,
both English and Scots, parliament and assembly, nobility and city, may
all rejoice together.

_Second_, Religiously: godly works must be done in a godly manner, that
the act done for God's glory may be sanctified with God's presence. With
what serious humiliation, and hearty prayers did Nehemiah begin this
duty? What a number of able men did Josiah collect together? And how
reverently did they read in the Scriptures, and speak of the nature of
the covenant? Both Nehemiah by praying, and Josiah by reading, desired
in this holy business to approve themselves followers of holiness in the
sight of God. And at the last taking in this place, who was not touched
with that feeling prayer, made by that man of God[8]; that godly
exhortation, which followed from another[9]; that pithy relation by
that man of name[10]; that soul-affecting thanksgiving, wherewith a
godly doctor closed the day[11]? and, that no less piety and love of God
might appear in you, after you resolved upon the work; you desired that
the ordinance might be sanctified to you by the word of God and prayer;
you moved me to this employment, and got it ordered accordingly: and
now, I doubt not, but in the action, you will do it with such reverence
of God's majesty, such awfulness of heart, that in lifting up your hands
to the most high God, He may be pleased to accept the sacrifice, and
make it comfortable. Thus to the manner.

II. To the matter. For the matter, that it be lawfully warranted by the
Word of God. To examine these particularly, in all and several parts
thereof, were the work of a volume, not of one sermon; that will be done
by others: but to do something, and what we may for this time; it is not
difficult to parallel from Scripture this covenant in all the parts of
it. The lawfulness of covenanting, I suppose not questionable, as a
furtherance and help to a spiritual progress; we find it oft used: the
New Testament affords but rare instances, the church then in its infancy
having little occasion, and as little need of such combining, fasting
and days of prayer, which are of the same nature, we find often; and the
angel "lift up his hand, (a covenanting gesture) and swore by Him that
liveth," (a covenanting act,) but the Old Testament is full. Take then
this as granted, and come to the particular materials, and in every
part, for every article, we can find an instance. The articles in this
covenant are six: the preamble sets forth, 1. The occasion; their aim at
God's glory, their enemies aim at their ruin. 2. The pattern; the
commendable practice of those kingdoms, and the example of churches in
all ages. The close containeth their resolution against all impediments
that may either stop the taking, or disable the keeping of this league,
their own sins. The body of the covenant contains the articles; the
lawfulness of which seems thus to be warranted.

The first is the reformation of the false, and the preservation of the
true worship of God, and the uniting of all the kingdoms in that truth
thus reformed. Such a covenant took Asa, and his people. The first is
for the reformation of religion decayed. He purged away all the dross,
and removed all the defects. He repaired the altar of the Lord, the main
part of their ceremonial covenant. Then for the uniting of the kingdoms
in the embracing of this truth. Asa gathered all Judah and Benjamin,
this was his own people, the subjects of one kingdom; and with them the
strangers, that is, the inhabitants of Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon,
these were the people of another land. So here are the persons
covenanting, the matter covenanted to. The persons, the subjects, two
several kingdoms; the matter, reformation, and to seek the God of their
fathers; to this they all swear, like as the inhabitants of England,
Scotland and Ireland, meet all in one duty, even a covenant, and that to
one end, to seek and serve God in the purity of His ways, after the
purity of His will; to this, as Asa and his people, we swear.

