With this preface I proceed to show that the episcopal _mitre_ and the
papal _tiara_ are respectively the copies each of a distinct head-dress
originally worn by the kings of Persia and the conterminous countries, and
by the chiefs of their priesthood, the Magi. The nomenclature alone
indicates a foreign extraction. It comes to us through the Romans from the
Greeks; both of which nations employed the terms [Greek: mitra], Lat.
_mitra_, and [Greek: tiara], Lat. _tiara_, to designate two different kinds
of covering for the head in use amongst the Oriental races, each one of a
distinct and peculiar form, though as being foreigners, and consequently
not possessing the technical accuracy of a native, they not unfrequently
confound the two words, and apply them indiscriminately to both objects.
Strictly speaking, the Greek [Greek: mitra], in its primitive notion, means
a long _scarf_, whence it came to signify, in a secondary sense, various
articles of attire composed with a scarf, and amongst others the Oriental
_turban_ (Herod. vii. 62.). But as we descend in time, and remove in
distance from the country where this object was worn, we find that the
Romans affixed another notion to the word, which they used very commonly to
designate the Asiatic or Phrygian cap (Virg. _Æn._ iv. 216.; Servius,
l.c.); and this sense has likewise been adopted in our own language:

 "That Paris now with his unmanly sort,
  With _mitred_ hat."--Surrey, Virgil, _Æn._ iv.

Thus the word _mitra_ in its later usage came to signify a _cap_ or
_bonnet_, instead of a turban; and it is needless to observe that the
priests of a religion comparatively modern, when they adopted the term,
would have taken it in the sense which was current at their own day. Now,
though the common people were not permitted to wear high bonnets, nor of
any other than a soft and flexible material, the kings and personages of
distinction had theirs of a lofty form, and stiffened for the express
purpose of making them stand up at an imposing elevation above the crown of
the head. In the national collection at Paris there is preserved an antique
gem, engraved by Caylus (_Recueil d'Antiq._, vol. ii. p. 124.), on which is
engraved the head of some Oriental personage, probably a king of Parthia,
Persia, or Armenia, who wears a tall upstanding bonnet, _mitred_ at the top
exactly like a bishop's, with the exception that it has three incisions at
the side instead of a single one. These separate incisions had no doubt a
symbolical meaning amongst the native races, although their allusive
properties are unknown to us; but it is not an unwarrantable inference, nor
inconsistent with the customs of these nations as enduring at this day, to
conclude that the numbers of one, two, or three, were appropriated as
distinctions of different degrees in rank; and that their priests, the
Magi, like those of other countries where the sovereign did not invest
himself with priestly dignities, imitated the habiliments as they assumed
the powers of the sovereign, and wore a bonnet closely resembling his in
form and dignity, with the difference of one large _mitre_ at each side, in
place of the three smaller ones.

If this account be true respecting the origin of the mitre, it will lead us
by an easy step to determine the place where it was first used--at Antioch,
the "Queen of the East," where, as we are told in the Acts of the Apostles,
the followers of Christ were first called "Christians;" thus indicating
that they were sufficiently numerous and influential to be distinguished as
a separate class in that city, while those in Rome yet remained despised
and unknown. Antioch was the imperial residence of the Macedonian dynasty,
which succeeded Alexander, who himself assumed the upright bonnet of the
Persian king (Arrian. iv. 7.), and transmitted it to his successors, who
ruled over Syria for several hundred years, where its form would be ready
at hand as a model emblematic of authority for the bishop who ruled over
the primitive church in those parts.

The tiara of the popes has, in like manner, an Eastern origin; but instead
of being adopted by them directly from its native birth-place, it descended
through Etruria to the Pagan priesthood of ancient Rome, and thence to the
head of the Roman Catholic Church. The [Greek: tiara] of the Greeks, and
_tiara_ of the Latins, expresses the cloth cap or _fez_ of the Parthians,
Persians, Armenians, &c., {145} which was a low scull-cap amongst the
commonalty, but a stiff and elevated covering for the kings and personages
of distinction (Xen. _Anab._ ii. 5, 23.). This imposing tiara is frequently
represented on ancient monuments, where it varies in some details, though
always preserving the characteristic peculiarity of a tall upright
head-dress. It is sometimes truncated at its upper extremity, at others a
genuine round-topped bonnet, like the Phrygian cap when pulled out to its
full length, and stiffened so as to stand erect--each a variety of form
peculiar to certain classes or degrees of rank, which at this period we are
not able to decide and distinguish with certainty. But on a bas-relief from
Persepolis, supposed to have belonged to the palace of Cyrus, and engraved
by Ferrario (_Costume dell' Asia_, vol. iii. tav. 47.), may be seen a
bonnet shaped very much like a beehive, the exact type of the papal tiara,
with three bands (the _triregno_) round its sides, and only wanting the
cross at the summit, and the strawberry-leaved decoration, to distinguish
it from the one worn by Pio Nono: and on a medal of Augustus, engraved on a
larger scale in Rich's _Companion to the Latin Dictionary_, art. Tutulus,
we find this identical form, with an unknown ornament of the top, for which
the popes substituted a cross, reappearing on the skull of a pagan priest.
I may add that the upright tiaras represented on works of ancient art,
which can be proved, or are known to be worn by royal personages, are
truncated at the summit; whence it does not seem an improper inference to
conclude that the round and conical ones belonged to persons inferior to
the kings alone in rank and influence, the Magi; which is the more
probable, since it is clear that they were adopted by the highest priests
of two other religions, those of Pagan and of Christian Rome.

If space admits, I would also add that the official insignia and costume of
a cardinal are likewise derived from the pagan usages of Greece. Amongst
his co-religionists he is supposed to symbolize one of the Apostles of
Christ, who went forth ill clothed and coarsely shod to preach the Gospel;
whereas, in truth, his comfortable hat, warm cloak, and showy stockings,
are but borrowed plumage from the ordinary travelling costume of a Greek
_messenger_ ([Greek: apostolos]). The sentiment of travelling is always
conveyed in the ancient bas-reliefs and vase paintings by certain
conventional signs or accessories bestowed upon the figure represented,
viz., a broad-brimmed and low-crowned hat ([Greek: petasos], Lat.
_petasus_), with long ties (_redimicula_) hanging from its sides, which
served to fasten it under the chin, or sling it behind at the nape of the
neck when not worn upon the head; a wrapping cloak ([Greek: himation], Lat.
_pallium_) made of coarse material instead of fine lamb's wool; and a pair
of stout travelling boots laced round the legs with leathern thongs
([Greek: endromides]), more serviceable for bad roads and rough weather
than their representatives, red silk stockings. All these peculiarities may
be seen in the following engravings (Winhelm. _Mon. Ined. Tratt., Prelim._,
p. xxxv.; Id., tav. 85.; _Rich's Companion_, art. "Ceryx" and "Pallium").

I regret that the nature of your publication does not admit the
introduction of woodcuts, which would have enabled me to present your
readers with the best of all demonstrations for what I advance. In default
of that I have endeavoured to point out the most compendious and accessible
sources where the figures I refer to may be seen in engravings. But if any
reader of "NOTES AND QUERIES" should not have an opportunity of consulting
the books cited, and is desirous of pursuing the investigation to satisfy
himself, I would willingly transmit to him a drawing of the objects
mentioned through Mr. Bell, or any other channel deemed more convenient.

A. RICH, JUNR.

_The Episcopal Mitre_ (Vol. iii., p. 62.)--Godwyn, in his _Moses and
Aaron_, London, 1631, b. i., c. 5., says that--

    "A miter of fine linnen sixteene cubits long, wrapped about his head,
    and a plate of purple gold, or holy crowne, two fingers broad, whereon
    was graven Holinesse to the Lord, which was tied with a blew lace upon
    the forefront of the miter,"

was that "which shadowed and signified the kingly office of our Saviour
Christ," in the apparel of the Jewish high priest, and ordered (Lev. xvi.
4.): and again, in his _Romanæ Historiæ Anthologia_, Oxford, 1631, lib.
iii. sec. 1. cap. 8., he says that the

    "_Mitra_ did signifie a certaine attire for women's heads, as a coife
    or such like."

For further illustration see Virgil's _Æneid_, lib. iv. l. 216.:

 "Mæoniâ mentum mitrâ crinemque madentem."

Again, lib. ix. l. 616.:

 "Et tunicæ manicas et habent redimicula mitræ."

During the ennobling of the clergy by the Roman emperors, in the seventh
and eighth centuries, a crown was found necessary, and anciently cardinals
wore mitres; but, at the council of Lyons, in 1245, they were appointed to
wear hats.

BLOWEN.

_The Episcopal Mitre_ (Vol. iii., p. 62.).--AN INQUIRER will find much
curious matter respecting the mitre, collected both from classical writers
and antiquaries, in _Explications de plusieurs Textes difficiles de
l'Ecriture par le R. P. Dom._ [_Martin_], 4to., à Paris, 1730. To any one
ambitious of learnedly occupying some six or seven columns of "NOTES AND
QUERIES" the ample foot references are very tempting; I content myself with
transcribing two or three of the entries in the index:

    _"Mitre des anciens, leur nature, et leur forme; était la {146} marque
    du Sacerdoce; se portait ordinairement à la tête, et quelquefois aux
    mains. Forme des mitres dans leur origine, et dans les tems
    postérieurs,_" &c.

This dissertation, which is illustrated by several plates, will repay for
the time spent in reading it. I presume INQUIRER is acquainted with
Godwyn's _Moses and Aaron_, where he will find something.

W. DN.

_Episcopal Mitre._--The origin of the peculiar form of the episcopal mitre
is the cloven tongues which descended on the Apostles on the day of
Pentecost, with the gift of the Holy Spirit. Of this the mitre is an
emblem.

L. M. M. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRYDEN'S ESSAY UPON SATIRE.

(Vol. ii., pp. 422. 462.)

The Query proposed by your correspondent, as to the authorship of the
_Essay on Satire_, is a very interesting one, and I am rather surprised
that it has not yet been replied to. In favour of your correspondent's
view, and I think it is perhaps the strongest argument which can be
alleged, is Dean Lockier's remark:--

    "Could anything be more impudent than his (Sheffield's) publishing that
    satire, for writing which Dryden was beaten in Rose Alley (and which
    was so remarkably known by the name of the 'Rose Alley Satire') as his
    own? Indeed he made a few alterations in it, but these were only
    verbal, and generally for the worse."--Spence's _Anecdotes_, edit.
    Singer, p. 64.

Dean Lockier, it must be observed, was well acquainted with Dryden from
1685 to the time of his death; and appears to speak so positively that he
would seem to have acquired his knowledge from Dryden's own information.
His first introduction to that great poet arose from an observation made in
Dryden's hearing about his Mac Fleckno; and it is therefore the more likely
that he would be correctly informed as to the author's other satires. Dean
Lockier was, it may be added, a good critic; and his opinions on literary
subjects are so just, that it is to be regretted we have only very few of
them.

I confess I do not attach much weight to the argument arising from the
lines on the Earl of Mulgrave himself contained in the poem. To transfer
suspicion from himself, in so general a satire, it was necessary to include
his own name amongst the rest; but, though the lines are somewhat obscure,
it is, after all, as respects him, compared with the other persons
mentioned, a very gentle flagellation, and something like what children
call a make-believe. Indeed Rochester, in a letter to his friend Henry
Saville (21st Nov. 1679), speaks of it as a panegyric.

On the other hand, Mulgrave expressly denied Dryden's being the author, in
the lines in his _Essay on Poetry_,--

    "Tho' praised and punished for another's rhymes."

and by inference claimed the poem, or at least the lines on Rochester, as
his own. Dryden, in the Preface to his Virgil, praises the _Essay on
Poetry_ in the highest terms; but says not a word to dispute Mulgrave's
statement, though he might then have safely claimed the _Essay on Satire_,
if his own; and though he must have been aware that, by his silence, he was
virtually resigning his sole claim to its authorship. It was subsequently
included in Mulgrave's works, and has ever since gone under the joint names
of himself and Dryden.

On the question of internal evidence critics differ. Your correspondent can
see in it no hand but Dryden's; while Malone will scarcely allow that
Dryden made even a few verbal alterations in it (Life, p. 130.); and Sir
Walter Scott is not inclined to admit any further participation on the part
of the great poet than "a few hints for revision," and denies its merit
altogether--a position in which I think very few, who carefully peruse it,
will agree with him.

I am disposed to take a middle course between your correspondent and
Dryden's two biographers, and submit that there is quite sufficient
internal evidence of joint ownership. I cannot think such lines as--

 "I, who so wise and humble seem to be,
  Now my own vanity and pride can't see;"

or,--

 "I, who have all this while been finding fault,
  E'en with my master who first satire taught,
  And did by that describe the task so hard,
  It seems stupendious, and above reward."

or,--

 "To tell men freely of their foulest faults,
  To laugh at their vain deeds and vainer thoughts:"

would proceed from Dryden, while it is to be noticed that the inharmonious
rhymes "faults" and "thoughts" were favourites of Mulgrave, and occur twice
in his _Essay on Poetry_.

Neither can I doubt that the verses on Shaftesbury,--the four "will any
dog;" the four "For words and wit did anciently agree," the four "Mean in
each action;" the two "Each pleasure has its price"--are Dryden's
additions, with many others, which a careful reader will instantly
appropriate.

I can find no sufficient authority for the statement of Malone and Sir W.
Scott, that Pope revised the _Essay on Satire_. It is well known he
corrected that on Poetry.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

    Manchester, Feb. 10. 1851.

{147}

       *       *       *       *       *

FOUNDATION-STONE OF ST. MARK'S AT VENICE.

(Vol. iii., p. 88.)

I recollect having seen the stone in question in the collection of the late
Mr. Douce, in whose possession it had been for some years before his
communication of it to the Society of Antiquaries. It is quite evident that
he was satisfied of its authenticity, and it was most probably an
accidental purchase from some dealer in antiquities, who knew nothing about
it. I happen to know that it remained in the hands of Sir Henry Ellis at
the time of Mr. Douce's death, and your correspondent H. C. R. will most
probably find it among the other collections of Mr. Douce now in the museum
at Goodrich Castle.

The doubt expressed by your correspondent is evidently founded upon the
engraving and accompanying paper in the 26th volume of the _Archæologia_;
and as it conveys such a grave censure of the judgment of the director of
the council and secretaries of the Antiquarian Society, it appears to me
that it is incumbent upon him to satisfy his doubts by seeing the stone
itself, and, if he should be convinced of his error, to make the _amende
honorable_.

It is to be regretted that he did not state "the points which have
suggested this notion of its being a hoax." For my own part, I cannot see
the motive for such a falsification; and if it is one, it is the
contrivance of some one who had more epigraphic skill than is usually found
on such occasions.

There is nothing in the objection of your correspondent as to the size and
form of the stone which would have any weight, and it is not necessary to
suppose that it "must have been loose in the world for 858 years." On
pulling down the old church, the foundation-stone in which this was
imbedded may have been buried with the rubbish, and exhumed in
comparatively recent times. It had evidently fallen into rude and ignorant
hands, and suffered by being violently detached from the stone in which it
was imbedded.

Every one who knew the late Mr. Douce must have full confidence in his
intimate knowledge of mediæval antiquity, and would not easily be led to
imagine that he could be deceived on a point like this; but are we to
presume, from a vague _idea_ of your correspondent's, that the executive
body of the Society of Antiquaries would fail to detect a forgery of this
nature?

S. W. S., _olim_ F. S. A.

_Foundation-stone of St. Mark's, Venice_ (Vol. iii., p.88.).--This singular
relic is now preserved in the "Doucean Museum," at Goodrich Court,
Herefordshire, with the numerous objects of art and antiquities bequeathed
by Mr. Douce to the late Sir Samuel Meyrick. I believe that nothing can now
be ascertained regarding the history of this stone, or how it came into the
possession of Mr. Douce. Sir Samuel enumerates it amongst "Miscellaneous
Antiquities," No. 2., in his interesting Inventory of this Collection,
given in the _Gentleman's Magazine_, Feb., 1835, p. 198. The Doucean Museum
comprises, probably, the finest series of specimens of sculpture in ivory
existing in any collection in England. The Limoges enamels are also highly
deserving of notice.

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTOIRE DES SÉVARAMBES.

(Vol. iii., pp. 4. and 72.)

I am not sufficiently familiar with Vossius or his works to form any
opinion as to the accuracy of the conclusion which MR. CROSSLEY has arrived
at. There is at least much obscurity in the matter, to which I have long
paid some little attention.

My Copy is entitled,--

    "The History of the Sevarambians: A People of the South continent. In
    _Five_ Parts. Containing an Account of the Government, &c. Translated
    from the Memoirs of Capt. _Siden_, who lived fifteen years amongst
    them. Lond. 1738." (8vo. pp. xxiii. and 412.)

I have given this to show how it differs from that spoken of by MR. C. as
being in _two_ parts, by Capt. Thos. _L_iden, and not a reprint, but a
translation from the French, which Lowndes says was "considerably _altered_
and _enlarged_."

If this be so, we can hardly ascribe to Vossius the edition of 1738. The
preface intimates that the papers were written in Latin, French, Italian,
and Dutch, and placed in the editor's hands in England, on his promising to
methodise them and put them all into one language; but I do not observe the
slightest allusion to the work having previously appeared either in English
or French, although we find that Barbier, in his _Dict. des Anon._, gives
the French edit. 1 pt. Paris, 1677; 2 pt. Paris, 1678 et 1679, 2 vols.
12mo.; Nouvelle edit. Amsterdam, 1716, 2 vols. 12mo.; and ascribes it to
Denis Vairasse d'Alais.

There is a long account of this work in _Dict. Historique_, par Marchand: à
la Haye, 1758, fo. sub. nom., Allais, as the author, observing--

    "Il y a diversité d'opinions touchant la langue en laquelle il a été
    écrit ou composé."

The earliest he mentions is the English one of 1675, and an edition in the
French, "à Paris, 1677;" which states on the title, _Traduit de l'Anglois_,
whereas the second part is "imprimée à Paris _chez l'Auteur_, 1678," from
which Marchand concludes that Allais was the writer, adding,--

    "On n'a peut-être jamais vu de Fiction composée avec plus d'art et plus
    d'industrie, et il faut avouer {148} qu'il y en a peu où le
    vraisemblable soit aussi ingénieusement et aussi adroitement conservé."

Wm. Taylor, of Norwich, writes to Southey, asking,--

    "Can you tell me who wrote the _History of the Sevarambians_? The book
    is to me curious. Wieland steals from it so often, that it must have
    been a favourite in his library; if I had to impute the book by guess,
    I would fix on Maurice Ashby, the translator of Xenophon's _Cyropædia_,
    as the author."

to which Southey replies,--

    "Of the Sevarambians I know nothing!" (See _Gent. Mag._ N.S. xxi. p.
    355.)

Sir W. Scott, in his _Memoirs of Swift_, p. 304. (edit. 1834), speaking of
_Gulliver's Travels_, says--

    "A third volume was published by an unblushing forger, as early as
    1727, without printer's name, a great part of which is unacknowledged
    plunder from a work entitled _Hist. des Sévarambes_, ascribed to Mons.
    Alletz, suppressed in France and other Catholic kingdoms on account of
    its deistical opinions."

It would seem from this, that Sir Walter was not aware of the English work,
or knew much of its origin or the author.

F. R. A.

_Histoire des Sévarambes._--The second edition of Gulliver's Travels,
entitled _Travels into several Remote Nations of the World, by Lemuel
Gulliver_, 2 vols. 8vo., London, 1727, is accompanied with a spurious third
volume, printed at London in the same year, with a similar title-page, but
not professing to be a second edition. This third volume is divided into
two parts: the first part consists, first, of an Introduction in pp. 20;
next, of two chapters, containing a second voyage to Brobdingnag, which are
followed by four chapters, containing a voyage to Sporunda. The second part
consists of six chapters, containing a voyage to Sevarambia, a voyage to
Monatamia, a voyage to Batavia, a voyage to the Cape, and a voyage to
England. The whole of the third volume, with the exception of the
introduction and the two chapters relating to Brobdingnag, is derived from
the _Histoire des Sévarambes_, either in its English or French version.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOUCHING FOR THE EVIL.

(Vol. iii., pp. 42. 93.)

There is ample evidence that the French monarchs performed the ceremony of
touching for the evil.

In a MS. in the University Library, Cambridge[18], is this memorandum:--

    "The Kings of England and _Fraunce_ by a peculiar guift cure the King's
    evill by touching them with their handes, and so doth the seaventh
    sonne."--_Ant. Miraldus_, p. 384.

Fuller intimates that St. Louis was the first king of France who healed the
evil. "So witnesseth Andrew Chasne, a French author, and others."[19]

Speaking of the illness of Louis XI., "at Forges neere to Chinon," in
March, 1480, Philip de Commines says:

    "After two daies he recovered his speech and his memory after a sort:
    and because he thought no man understood him so wel as my selfe, his
    pleasure was that I should alwaies be by him, and he confessed himselfe
    to the officiall in my presence, otherwise they would never have
    understood one another. He had not much to say, for he was shriven not
    long before, because the Kings of Fraunce use alwaies to confesse
    themselves when they touch those that be sick of the King's evill,
    which he never failed to do once a weeke. If other Princes do not the
    like, they are to blame, for continuall a great number are troubled
    with that disease."[20]

Pierre Desrey, in his _Great Chronicles of Charles VIII._, has the
following passage relating to that monarch's proceedings at Rome in
January, 1494-5:--

    "Tuesday the 20th, the king heard mass in the French chapel, and
    afterwards touched and cured many afflicted with the king's evil, to
    the great astonishment of the Italians who witnessed the miracle."[21]

And speaking of the king at Naples, in April, 1495, the same chronicler
says:--

    "The 15th of April, the king, after hearing mass in the church of the
    Annonciada, was confessed, and then touched and cured great numbers
    that were afflicted with the evil--a disorder that abounded much all
    over Italy--when the spectators were greatly edified at the powers of
    such an extraordinary gift.

    *   *   *   *   *

    "On Easter day, the 19th of April, the king was confessed in the church
    of St. Peter, adjoining to his lodgings, and then touched for the evil
    a second time."[22]

Fuller, in remarking upon the cure of the king's evil by the touch of our
English monarchs, observes:--

    "The kings of France share also with those of England in this
    miraculous cure. And Laurentius reports, that when Francis I., king of
    France, was kept prisoner in Spain, he, notwithstanding his exile and
    restraint, daily cured infinite multitudes of people of that disease;
    according to this epigram:

      _'Hispanos inter sanat rex chæradas, estque_
        _Captivus Superis gratus, ut antè fuit.'_

     'The captive king the evil cures in Spain:
      Dear, as before, he doth to God remain.'

    "So it seemeth his medicinal quality is affixed not {149} to his
    prosperity, but person; so that during his durance, he was fully free
    to exercise the same."[23]

Cavendish, relating what took place on Cardinal Wolsey's embassy to Francis
I., in 1527, has the following passage:--

    "And at his [the king's] coming in to the bishop's palace [at Amiens],
    where he intended to dine with my Lord Cardinal, there sat within a
    cloister about two hundred persons diseased with the king's evil, upon
    their knees. And the king, or ever he went to dinner, provised every of
    them with rubbing them and blessing them with his bare hands, being
    bareheaded all the while; after whom followed his almoner distributing
    of money unto the persons diseased. And that done, he said certain
    prayers over them, and then washed his hands, and so came up into his
    chamber to dinner, where as my lord dined with him."[24]

Laurentius, cited by Fuller in the page already given, was, it seems,
physician in ordinary to King Henry IV. of France. In a treatise entitled
_De Mirabili Strumarum Curatione_, he stated that the kings of England
never cured the evil. "To cry quits with him," Dr. W. Tucker, chaplain to
Queen Elizabeth, in his _Charismate_, denied that the kings of France ever
originally cured the evil

    "but _per aliquam propaginem_, 'by a sprig of right,' derived from the
    primitive power of our English kings, under whose jurisdiction most of
    the French provinces were once subjected."[25]

Louis XVI., immediately after his coronation at Rheims, in 1775, went to
the Abbey of St. Remi to pay his devotions, and to touch for the evil. The
ceremony took place in the Abbey Park, and is thus described in a paper
entitled _Coronation of the Kings of France prior to the Revolution_, by
Charles White, Esq.:--

    "Two thousand four hundred individuals suffering under this affliction,
    having been assembled in rows in the park, his majesty, attended by the
    household physicians, approached the first on the right. The
    physician-in-chief then placed his hand upon the patient's head, whilst
    a captain of the guards held the hands of the latter joined before his
    bosom. The king, with his head uncovered, then touched the patient by
    making the sign of the cross upon his face, exclaiming, 'May God heal
    thee! The king touches thee.' The whole two thousand four hundred
    having been healed in a similar manner, and the grand almoner having
    distributed alms to each in succession, three attendants, called _chefs
    de goblet_, presented themselves with golden salvers, on which were
    three embroidered napkins. The first, steeped in vinegar, was then
    offered to the king by Monsieur; the second, dipped in plain water, was
    presented by the Count d'Artois; and the third, moistened with orange
    water, was banded by the Duke of Orleans."[26]

The power of the seventh son to heal the evil (mentioned in the MS. I have
cited) is humourously alluded to in the _Tatler_ (No. 11.). I subjoin the
passage, which occurs in a letter signed "D. Distaff."

    "_Tipstaff_, being a seventh son, used to cure the _king's evil_; but
    his rascally descendants are so far from having that healing quality,
    that by a touch upon the shoulder, they give a man such an ill habit of
    body, that he can never come abroad afterwards."

I imagine that by the seventh son is meant the seventh son of a seventh
son.

C. H. COOPER.

    Cambridge, Feb. 4. 1851.

P.S. Since the above was written, I have observed the following notice of
the work of Laurentius in Southey's _Common Place Book_, 4th Series, 478.
(apparently from a bookseller's catalogue):

    "Laurentius (And.) De Mirabili Strumas Sanandi VI. Solis Galliæ Regibus
    Christianissimis divinitas concessa, (_fine copy_,) 12s. Paris, 1609.

    "This copy possesses the large folded engraving of Henry IV., assisted
    by his courtiers in the ceremony of curing the king's evil."

[Footnote 18: _Dd._ 2. 41. fo. 38 b.]

[Footnote 19: Fuller, _Church History_, edit. 1837, i. 228.]

[Footnote 20: Danett's Translation. edit. 1614, p. 203.]

[Footnote 21: Monstrelet edit. 1845, ii. 471.]

[Footnote 22: Ibid. 476.]

[Footnote 23: Fuller, _Church History_, edit. 1837, i. 227.]

[Footnote 24: Cavendish, _Life of Wolsey_, edit. Singer, 1825, vol. i. p.
104.]

[Footnote 25: Fuller, _Church History_, edit. 1837, i. pp. 227, 228.]

[Footnote 26: _New Monthly Magazine_, vol. liii. p. 160.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Forged Papal Bulls_ (Vol. ii., p. 491.).--In your Number, 20th Dec., J. E.
inquires where is the instrument for counterfeiting the seal of the Pope's
Bulls, which was dredged up from the ruins of old London Bridge. It is in
my possession, and your correspondent will find an account of it, with
woodcuts of the instrument itself and the seal, in the _Proceedings of the
Archæological Association_, 11th Feb. 1846.

GEO. R. CORNER.

    Eltham.

