    "Lord Palmerston came to town, sent for by Perceval. He was
    so good as to confide to me that three things were offered to
    him,--the Chancellorship of the Exchequer, Secretaryship at
    War, or a seat at the Treasury, by way of introduction to the
    seals, if he was afraid of entering upon them at once. These
    offers were, however, in the alternative of there being any
    of them declined by Milnes (Member for Pomfret), to whom they
    were made in the first instance. Lord P. consulted me very
    frankly upon them, and asked if I thought he would be equal
    to the seals either in Cabinet or Parliament, particularly the
    latter, where he had barely made his début. I told him, and
    was most sincere, that in common with all his friends whom I
    had ever heard speak on the subject, I thought him quite equal
    to them in point of capacity, but as to nerves in Parliament,
    (of which he seemed most to doubt,) nobody could judge but
    himself. He said, Petty (whom I had mentioned) had come
    forward after having felt his way and got possession of
    himself in the House, and that if he had done the same, he
    perhaps would not hesitate. As it was, he inclined to the
    second place, but had written to Lord Malmesbury. We walked up
    to Hyde Park discussing the subject. Among other topics which
    I urged, one seemed to impress him much; which was, the great
    difference there would be in his situation and pretensions
    upon a return to office, in the event of our going out, if
    he retired as a Cabinet Minister instead of a subordinate
    capacity. He allowed it much flattered his ambition, but
    feared the prejudice it would occasion to his own reputation
    and the interest of his friends if he failed. I left him
    inclining to the Secretary at War; and admired his prudence,
    as I have long done the talents and excellent understanding,
    as well as the many other good qualities as well as
    accomplishments, of this very fine young man."

One portion of the diary relates to the Regency. New facts are
scarcely advanced, but we think some freshness is given from the
light and coloring of the author. Unless Sheridan really persuaded
the Prince to throw over the Whigs, out of revenge for Whig hauteur,
his Royal Highness would seem to have acted entirely from himself.
The arrogance of Grey and Grenville comes out very strongly in the
painting of his opponent. After all, however, it is doubtful whether
they _could_ have come in. The Tories would have been strong in
Opposition; the Whigs could scarcely form a Government without the
Canning votes, and the hatred with which the old Whigs regarded their
leader rendered that junction impossible: what was more than all,
their cowardly anti-national policy would have rendered their position
one of great difficulty with the country. The fact is, that poor in
point of talent as the Perceval Ministry was, it best represented the
opinion of the country; as the Whigs now are in a similar position.
Some of these points are well put in this report of a conversation in
the House of Commons; which will also give an idea of the manner of
the diary.

    "J.W. Ward told me what he called a bon mot, and seemed much
    to enjoy, of Lady ----'s. He had said there was a difficulty
    in getting people to accept of offices just now; she answered,
    she thought Lord Grenville would be not unwilling to accept
    them _all_ in his own person. Oh strange union, where this,
    by one of their party, is thought characteristic and told
    with glee! I understand, however, that Tierney has confessed
    a difficulty. The Prince, it seems, wants them to accept, and
    they are afraid to accept. They are therefore reduced to tell
    the Prince, We would accept if it were to do ourselves good;
    but not when it is inconvenient, though to do you good.
    The remarkable part of the evening was a conversation with
    Brand, who came over to sit by me. Though he had spoken, and
    strongly, against us in the debate, he opened immediately upon
    the merits of Perceval; he admired his conduct and ability
    so much, that if he had ever given him a vote in his life, he
    said, he would have supported him on these questions; that
    his character had enabled him to commence the stand he had
    made, and character had attached his party so much to him as
    to continue the majority all through; that this sentiment
    was not peculiar to him in the Opposition, but partaken
    by many--indeed, all without exception admired him; that
    this would give him extraordinary influence as the head of
    an Opposition, which must give great trouble, to the new
    Government when it was formed: nevertheless, he thought we
    were not going out, it was too dangerous to come in; probably,
    he added, laughing, the Regent will keep Perceval three months
    as his father's Minister, and then 'fall so much in love with
    him' (that was the expression) that he will continue him
    as his own. He then entered much on the comparison between
    him and Canning; the latter of whom, he said, spite of his
    abilities, was discarded by all parties; that he could tell
    me it was finally resolved not to admit him in the new
    Government, into which some on account of those abilities
    had wished to introduce him. I may say, he observed, that I
    had some share in the rejection: I protested against such a
    junction whenever it was talked of; I told my friends it would
    ruin that without which they never could make a Government,
    character; that the eyes of a great number whom they could by
    no means command were upon them: I bade them look at the back
    rows on the side of Opposition, and asked them if they could
    count such men as Nicholson, Calvert, Halsey, Coke of Norfolk,
    &c., &c., as their regular supporters, unless it was from
    an esteem for their character--and if that character would
    not sustain a deep wound in the outset--if, for the sake of
    power, they allied themselves with a man who had deserted all
    alliances he had ever made; that he had deserted them before,
    after a treaty made, and had then deserted Perceval, after
    endeavoring to undermine Castlereagh; his conduct to whom had
    injured himself with the public in the most serious manner,
    in having allowed him to retain his office and undertake that
    melancholy expedition, five months after he had declared
    him so incapable that he put his own resignation upon his
    dismissal, that to ally with such a man could be only lowering
    themselves in public esteem without gaining anything but a
    hollow support. I would inform Canning myself, he added, that
    this was my protest, if he asked me."

The heads of the "great Whig families," however, were more sanguine,
and hoped, or at least were occupied, to the last. Their treatment
by the Prince was characteristic; and one can fancy the magnates at
Adam's announcement in the following extract:

    "What most offended them was the manner in which the Prince
    announced his resolution. They were in the very act of forming
    the Administration, filling offices, &c., &c., when Adam came
    in from the Prince. They said they could not be disturbed;
    he said he must disturb them, for he had a message from the
    Prince: they replied that it was for the Prince they were at
    work, for they were making the Government; Adam told them to
    spare all trouble, for no Government was to be made. This was
    on Friday the 1st, in the evening; and what affronted them
    was, that after having had such a task committed to them, the
    Prince should have presumed to take a counter resolution by
    himself without first consulting them."

This is a characteristic trait of the Duke of Wellington's way of
getting through, business.

    "He was fond of relating, that soon after the Duke's
    appointment, he was leaving his office at the usual hour,
    when, on coming out at the Park entrance, he perceived his new
    chief just in the act of getting on horseback. He went up to
    the Duke, and mentioned that there were some matters connected
    with the department on which he would like to communicate
    with him when he had time. 'No time like the present,' said
    the Duke, and, at once dismissing his horse, returned with
    Mr. Ward into the Ordnance Office. There, then, he remained
    closeted with the Duke till past eight, listening to and
    answering his pertinent queries upon manifold points connected
    with the department. From that moment the Duke appeared to be
    au fait of the business in hand, and ready to cope with the
    details as they from time to time presented themselves."

The Duke seems to have been more alarmed at the state of the nation
about 1819 than the nature of the case justified; deceived, probably,
by the official "reports" of Messrs. Castles and Co. The following
remark, however, exhibits his penetration:

    "He said, if the rising broke out anywhere, it would be
    at Glasgow and Paisley; where many rich merchants and all
    they supported would be sure to suffer, while no one could
    certainly foretell how soon it might be put down. This led
    him to his favorite notion, that the loyal should be taught
    to rely more upon themselves, and less upon the Government,
    in their own defense against the disloyal. It was this, he
    thought, that formed and kept up a national character: while
    every one was accustomed to rely upon the Government, upon a
    sort of commutation for what they paid to it, personal energy
    went to sleep, and the end was lost: that in England, he
    observed, every man who had the commonest independence, one,
    two, five or six hundred, or a thousand a year, had his own
    little plan of comfort--his favorite personal pursuit, whether
    his library, his garden, his hunting, or his farm, which he
    was unwilling to allow anything (even his own defense) to
    disturb; he therefore deceived himself into a notion that if
    there was a storm it would not reach him, and went on his own
    train till it was actually broke in upon by force. This led
    to supineness and apathy as to public exertion; which would in
    the end ruin us: the disposition therefore must be changed,
    by forcing them to exert themselves; which would not be if
    Government did everything in civil war, they nothing: hence
    his wish for a volunteer force. All this was exceedingly
    sound, and showed the reach of his reflecting mind as an
    observer of human nature, as well as a statesman and soldier,
    more than anything I have yet seen."

There is a curious passage touching Pitt's dying moments.

    "At the time Mr. Ward accepted the post of Under-Secretary of
    State, (resigning that of Welsh Judge,) it had been promised
    him that the apparent risk of such a step to the future
    prospects of his family should be guarded against by the grant
    of a pension, to commence when he should cease to hold office.
    He had been but a year in the post thus accepted, and amid
    the pressure of other matters the contemplated arrangement
    had never been completed. More than once in his last illness
    did Pitt allude to his unfulfilled promise, and speak with
    kindness of him to whom it had been made. Later on, when he
    could no longer continuously articulate, he made the name
    'Robert Ward' audible, and added signs for paper and ink.
    His trembling hand having feebly traced a number of wandering
    characters, and added what could be easily recognized as
    his well-known signature, he sank back. The precious paper
    (precious, whatever may have been its unknown import, as a
    proof of remembrance at so solemn a moment) was afterward
    handed over by the physician in attendance, Sir Walter
    Farquhar, to Mr. Ward; and many a time did he declare, as he
    displayed it to me, that he would give anything he valued most
    in the world to be able to decipher its unformed characters."

Some posthumous compositions of Mr. Ward are appended to the Memoirs.
They consist of "characters," similar to those of Chesterfield and
other writers, and of "sketches" and essays; these last being set in
a species of framework, intended to connect them into a series. They
are not the best specimens of the author's composition; and perhaps
were hardly worth publication. Allowance is to be made, as Mr. Phipps
remarks, for their unrevised state; and revision might have removed
crudities and imparted more closeness and strength. It would not,
however, have altered their main defects; which may be summed up
by saying that they belonged to another age, without reaching the
peculiar force and finish which alone can give interest to an obsolete
mode.

[Footnote 3: Memoirs of the Political and Literary Life of Robert
Plumer Ward, Esq., Author of "The Law of Nations," "Tremaine," "De
Vere," &c. With Selections from his Correspondence, Diaries, and
unpublished Literary Remains. By the Honorable Edmund Phipps. In two
volumes. Published by Murray.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BAGPIPE.--In Gothic sculpture and tracery angels are sometimes
portrayed practising on the bagpipe. It was occasionally used in
churches before the introduction of the organ, which occurred early
in the fifteenth century. Written music came into use about the same
time, and both were loudly denounced by many of the old school-men as
unnecessary and vain innovations.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IVORY MINE:

A TALE OF THE FROZEN SEA.

I.--YAKOUTSK.

Yakoutsk is one of the principal cities of Siberia, a country the
name of which excites exaggerated ideas of sterility and desolation.
Watered by rivers, which in every direction do the work of railways,
with richly-wooded mountains and valleys, with green slopes,
cultivated fields, soft meadows, gardens, and grassy islands in
the great streams, with all the common vegetables in pretty fair
abundance, with an endless source of commerce in furs and ivory,
Siberia, except in its extreme northern provinces, presents, like
most other lands, a very considerable amount of compensation for
considerable rigor of climate. Yakoutsk is a completely northern town
on the great river Lena, with wide streets and miserable huts, all of
wood, in many of which ice is still used in winter for panes of glass.
A very eminent traveler tells us that on his visit there were 4000
people living in 500 houses; with three stone churches, two wooden
ones, and a convent. It had once an antiquity to show--the ancient
Ostrog or fortress built in 1647 by the Cossacks; but which menaced
ruin more and more every day, being not of stone, but of wood, and
at last disappeared. Even here progress is observable, and wretched
cabins give way gradually to houses, some of which are even elegantly
arranged in the interior. It is a great commercial center: from the
Anubra to Behring's Straits, from the banks of the Frozen Sea to Mount
Aldana, from Okhotsk and even Kamschatka, goods are brought hither,
consisting chiefly of furs, seals' teeth and mammoths' tusks, which
afford excellent ivory, all of which are sold in the summer to
itinerant traders, who give in return powerfully-flavored tobacco,
corn and flour, tea, sugar, strong drinks, Chinese silks and cottons,
cloth, iron and copper utensils, and glass.

The inhabitants of the town are chiefly traders, who buy of the
Yakouta hunters their furs at a cheap rate, and then sell them in
a mysterious kind of fashion to the agents who come from Russia in
search of them. During the annual fair they stow up their goods in
private rooms; and here the Irkoutsk men must come and find them.
These traders are the Russian inhabitants, the native Yakoutas being
the only artisans. In this distant colony of the human race, the
new-born child of a Russian is given to a Yakouta woman to nurse, and
when old enough, learns to read and write, after which he is brought
up to the fur trade, and his education is finished.

Ivan Ivanovitch was a young man born and bred at Yakoutsk. His parents
had given him the usual amount of tuition, and then allowed him for
a time to follow the bent of his inclination. Ivan took to the chase.
Passionately fond of this amusement, he had at an early age started
with the Yakouta trappers, and become learned in the search for
sables, ermines, and lynxes; could pursue the reindeer and elk on
skates; and had even gone to the north in quest of seals. He thus at
the age of twenty, knew the whole active part of his trade, and was
aware of all the good hunting-grounds on which the Siberians founded
their prosperity. But when he was called on to follow the more quiet
and sedentary part of his occupation, he was not one-half so quick.
His rough and rude life made town existence distasteful to him, and he
evinced all that superb contempt for shop-keeping which characterizes
the nomadic man, whether Red Indian, Arab, Tartar, or Siberian.

But Ivan was told he must make his way in the world. His parents who
died before he attained to manhood, left him a small fortune in rubles
and furs, which, if he chose to be industrious and persevering, might
pave the way to the highest position in his native town. Acting on the
pressing advice of his friends, he gave up his wanderings, and went
to reside in the house of his fathers, piled up his skins and ivory,
bought new ones, and prepared for the annual fair. The merchants from
Irkoutsk, the capital, came, and Ivan, who was sharp and clever,
did a good trade. But when his furs and teeth were changed into
tea, tobacco, brandy, cloth, &c., he did not feel a whit happier.
Ivan longed for the arid hills, and lofty mountains, and pellucid
lakes--for the exciting hunt and the night bivouac, when gray-headed
Yakoutas would, with their _ganzis_--the Irish duddeen--in their
mouths, tell terrible and wonderful stories of ancient days. When
eating town fare, his stomach yearned after frozen Yakouta butter,
cut up with axes, and for _strouganina_ or frozen fish, with reindeer
brains, and other northern delicacies. And then his kind friends told
him that he wanted a wife--a possession without which, they assured
him, life was dull, adding that in her society he would cease to long
for communion with bears and savages.

