After gorging ourselves on these uncommon dainties some of the
chief Arabs escorted me to other tembes of Tabora.  When we went
to visit Mussoud bin Abdullah, he showed me the very ground where
Burton and Speke's house stood--now pulled down and replaced
by his office--Sny bin Amer's house was also torn down, and the
fashionable tembe of Unyanyembe, now in vogue, built over
it,--finely-carved rafters--huge carved doors, brass knockers,
and lofty airy rooms--a house built for defence and comfort.

The finest house in Unyanyembe belongs to Amram bin Mussoud,
who paid sixty frasilah of ivory--over $3,000--for it.  Very fair
houses can be purchased for from twenty to thirty frasilah of
ivory.  Amram's house is called the "Two Seas"--"Baherein." It is
one hundred feet in length, and twenty feet high, with walls four
feet thick, neatly plastered over with mud mortar.  The great door
is a marvel of carving-work for Unyanyembe artisans.  Each rafter
within is also carved with fine designs.  Before the front of the
house is a young plantation of pomegranate trees, which flourish
here as if they were indigenous to the soil.  A shadoof, such as
may be seen on the Nile, serves to draw water to irrigate the
gardens.

Towards evening we walked back to our own finely situated tembe in
Kwihara, well satisfied with what we had seen at Tabora.  My men
drove a couple of oxen, and carried three sacks of native rice--a
most superior kind--the day's presents of hospitality from Khamis
bin Abdullah.

In Unyanyembe I found the Livingstone caravan, which started off in
a fright from Bagamoyo upon the rumour that the English Consul was
coming.  As all the caravans were now halted at Unyanyembe because
of the now approaching war, I suggested to Sayd bin Salim, that it
were better that the men of the Livingstone caravan should live
with mine in my tembe, that I might watch over the white man's
goods.  Sayd bin Salim agreed with me, and the men and goods were
at once brought to my tembe.

One day Asmani, who was now chief of Livingstone's caravan, the
other having died of small-pox, two or three days before, brought
out a tent to the veranda where, I was sitting writing, and shewed
me a packet of letters, which to my surprise was marked:

"To Dr. Livingstone,
" Ujiji,
"November 1st, 1870.

" Registered letters."

From November 1st, 1870, to February 10, 1871, just one hundred
days, at Bagamoyo!  A miserable small caravan of thirty-three men
halting one hundred days at Bagamoyo, only twenty-five miles by
water from Zanzibar!  Poor Livingstone!  Who knows but he maybe
suffering for want of these very supplies that were detained so
long near the sea.  The caravan arrived in Unyanyembe some time
about the middle of May.  About the latter part of May the first
disturbances took place.  Had this caravan arrived here in the
middle of March, or even the middle of April, they might have
travelled on to Ujiji without trouble.

On the 7th of July, about 2 P.M., I was sitting on the burzani as
usual; I felt listless and languid, and a drowsiness came over me;
I did not fall asleep, but the power of my limbs seemed to fail
me.  Yet the brain was busy; all my life seemed passing in review
before me; when these retrospective scenes became serious, I
looked serious; when they were sorrowful, I wept hysterically;
when they were joyous, I laughed loudly.  Reminiscences of
yet a young life's battles and hard struggles came surging into
the mind in quick succession: events of boyhood, of youth, and
manhood; perils, travels, scenes, joys, and sorrows; loves and
hates; friendships and indifferences.  My mind followed the
various and rapid transition of my life's passages; it drew the
lengthy, erratic, sinuous lines of travel my footsteps had passed
over.  If I had drawn them on the sandy floor, what enigmatical
problems they had been to those around me, and what plain,
readable, intelligent histories they had been to me!

The loveliest feature of all to me was the form of a noble, and
true man, who called me son.  Of my life in the great pine forests
of Arkansas, and in Missouri, I retained the most vivid impressions.
The dreaming days I passed under the sighing pines on the Ouachita's
shores; the new clearing, the block-house, our faithful black
servant, the forest deer, and the exuberant life I led, were
all well remembered.  And I remembered how one day, after we had
come to live near the Mississipi, I floated down, down, hundreds of
miles, with a wild fraternity of knurly giants, the boatmen of
the Mississipi, and how a dear old man welcomed me back, as if
from the grave.  I remembered also my travels on foot through
sunny Spain, and France, with numberless adventures in Asia Minor,
among Kurdish nomads.  I remembered the battle-fields of America
and the stormy scenes of rampant war.  I remembered gold mines,
and broad prairies, Indian councils, and much experience in the
new western lands.  I remembered the shock it gave me to hear
after my return from a barbarous country of the calamity that
had overtaken the fond man whom I called father, and the hot
fitful life that followed it.  Stop!  ************

Dear me; is it the 21st of July?  Yes, Shaw informed me that it
was the 21st of July after I recovered from my terrible attack
of fever; the true date was the 14th of July, but I was not
aware that I had jumped a week, until I met Dr. Livingstone.
We two together examined the Nautical Almanack, which I brought
with me.  We found that the Doctor was three weeks out of his
reckoning, and to my great surprise I was also one week out,
or one week ahead of the actual date.  The mistake was made by
my being informed that I had been two weeks sick, and as the day
I recovered my senses was Friday, and Shaw and the people were
morally sure that I was in bed two weeks, I dated it on my Diary
the 21st of July.  However, on the tenth day after the first of my
illness, I was in excellent trim again, only, however, to see and
attend to Shaw, who was in turn taken sick.  By the 22nd July
Shaw was recovered, then Selim was prostrated, and groaned in his
delirium for four days, but by the 28th we were all recovered, and
were beginning to brighten up at the prospect of a diversion in the
shape of a march upon Mirambo's stronghold.

The morning of the 29th I had fifty men loaded with bales, beads,
and wire, for Ujiji.  When they were mustered for the march
outside the tembe, the only man absent was Bombay.  While men were
sent to search for him, others departed to get one more look, and
one more embrace with their black Delilahs.  Bombay was found some
time about 2 P.M., his face faithfully depicting the contending
passions under which he was labouring--sorrow at parting from the
fleshpots of Unyanyembe--regret at parting from his Dulcinea of
Tabora--to be, bereft of all enjoyment now, nothing but
marches--hard, long marches--to go to the war--to be killed,
perhaps,  Oh!  Inspired by such feelings, no wonder Bombay was
inclined to be pugnacious when I ordered him to his place, and I
was in a shocking bad temper for having been kept waiting from
8 A.M. to 2 P.M.  for him.  There was simply a word and a savage
look, and my cane was flying around Bombay's shoulders, as if he
were to be annihilated.  I fancy that the eager fury of my
onslaught broke his stubbornness more than anything else; for
before I had struck him a dozen times he was crying for "pardon."
At that word I ceased belaboring him, for this was the first time
he had ever uttered that word.  Bombay was conquered at last.

"March!" and the guide led off, followed in solemn order by
forty-nine of his fellows, every man carrying a heavy load of
African moneys, besides his gun, hatchet, and stock of ammunition,
and his ugali-pot.  We presented quite an imposing sight while thus
marching on in silence and order, with our flags flying, and the
red blanket robes of the men streaming behind them as the furious
north-easter blew right on our flank.

The men seemed to feel they were worth seeing, for I noticed that
several assumed a more martial tread as they felt their royal Joho
cloth tugging at their necks, as it was swept streaming behind by
the wind.  Maganga, a tall Mnyamwezi, stalked along like a very
Goliah about to give battle alone, to Mirambo and his thousand
warriors.  Frisky Khamisi paced on under his load, imitating a
lion and there was the rude jester--the incorrigible Ulimengo--
with a stealthy pace like a cat.  But their silence could not
last long.  Their, vanity was so much gratified, the red cloaks
danced so incessantly before their eyes, that it would have
been a wonder if they could have maintained such serious gravity
or discontent one half hour longer.

Ulimengo was the first who broke it.  He had constituted himself
the kirangozi or guide, and was the standard-bearer, bearing the
American flag, which the men thought would certainly strike terror
into the hearts of the enemy.  Growing confident first, then
valorous, then exultant, he suddenly faced the army he was
leading, and shouted

        "Hoy!  Hoy !
Chorus.--Hoy!  Hoy!

         Hoy!  Hoy!
Chorus.--Hoy!  Hoy!

         Hoy!  Hoy!
Chorus.--Hoy!  Hoy!

         Where are ye going?
Chorus.--Going to war.

         Against whom?
Chorus.--Against Mirambo.

         Who is your master?
Chorus.--The White Man.

         Ough!  Ough!
Chorus.--Ough!  Ough!

         Hyah!  Hyah!
Chorus.--Hyah.  Hyah!"

This was the ridiculous song they kept up all day without
intermission.

We camped the first day at Bomboma's village, situated a mile to
the south-west of the natural hill fortress of Zimbili.  Bombay
was quite recovered from his thrashing, and had banished the sullen
thoughts that had aroused my ire, and the men having behaved
themselves so well, a five-gallon pot of pombe was brought to
further nourish the valour, which they one and all thought they
possessed.

The second day we arrived at Masangi.  I was visited soon
afterwards by Soud, the son of Sayd bin Majid, who told me the
Arabs were waiting for me; that they would not march from Mfuto
until I had arrived.

Eastern Mfuto, after a six hours' march, was reached on the third
day from Unyanyembe.  Shaw gave in, laid down in the road, and
declared he was dying.  This news was brought to me about 4 P.M.
by one of the last stragglers.  I was bound to despatch men to
carry him to me, into my camp, though every man was well tired
after the long march.  A reward stimulated half-a-dozen to
venture into the forest just at dusk to find Shaw, who was
supposed to be at least three hours away from camp.

About two o'clock in the morning my men returned, having carried
Shaw on their backs the entire distance.  I was roused up, and had
him conveyed to my tent.  I examined him, and I assured myself he
was not suffering from fever of any kind; and in reply to my
inquiries as to how he felt, he said he could neither walk nor
ride, that he felt such extreme weakness and lassitude that he was
incapable of moving further.  After administering a glass of port
wine to him in a bowlful of sago gruel, we both fell asleep.

We arrived early the following morning at Mfuto, the rendezvous
of the Arab army.  A halt was ordered the next day, in order to
make ourselves strong by eating the beeves, which we freely
slaughtered.

The personnel of our army was as follows:

Sheikh Sayd bin Salim . .  .  .  .  .   25 half caste

  "    Khamis bin Abdullah .  .  .  .  250 slaves

  "    Thani bin Abdullah .  .  .  .    80   "

  "    Mussoud bin Abdullah .  .  .  .  75   "

  "    Abdullah bin Mussoud .  .  .  .  80   "

  "    Ali bin Sayd bin Nasib .  .  .  250   "

  "    Nasir bin Mussoud .  .  .  .  .  50   "

  "    Hamed Kimiami .  .  .  .  .  .   70   "

  "    Hamdam .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   30   "


  "    Sayd bin Habib .  .  .  .  .  .  50   "

  "    Salim bin Sayf .  .  .  .  .    100   "

  "    Sunguru .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25    "

  "    Sarboko .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25    "

  "    Soud bin Sayd bin Majid .  . .  50    "

  "    Mohammed bin Mussoud .  .  . .  30    "

  "    Sayd bin Hamed .  .  .  .  .  . 90    "

  "    The 'Herald' Expedition .  . .  50 soldiers

  "    Mkasiwa's Wanyamwezi .  .  .   800    "

  "    Half-castes and Wangwana .  .  125    "

  "    Independent chiefs and their
       followers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  300    "

These made a total of 2,255, according to numbers given me by
Thani bin Abdullah, and corroborated by a Baluch in the pay of
Sheikh bin Nasib.  Of these men 1,500 were armed with guns--
flint-lock muskets, German and French double-barrels, some
English Enfields, and American Springfields--besides these muskets,
they were mostly armed with spears and long knives for the
purpose of decapitating, and inflicting vengeful gashes in
the dead bodies.  Powder and ball were plentiful:  some men were
served a hundred rounds each, my people received each man sixty
rounds.

As we filed out of the stronghold of Mfuto, with waving banners
denoting the various commanders, with booming horns, and the roar
of fifty bass drums, called gomas--with blessings showered on us
by the mollahs, and happiest predications from the soothsayers,
astrologers, and the diviners of the Koran--who could have foretold
that this grand force, before a week passed over its head, would be
hurrying into that same stronghold of Mfuto, with each man's heart
in his mouth from fear?

The date of our leaving Mfuto for battle with Mirambo was the
3rd of August.  All my goods were stored in Mfuto, ready for the
march to Ujiji, should we be victorious over the African chief,
but at least for safety, whatever befel us.

Long before we reached Umanda, I was in my hammock in the
paroxysms of a fierce attack of intermittent fever, which did
not leave me until late that night.

At Umanda, six hours from Mfuto, our warriors bedaubed themselves
with the medicine which the wise men had manufactured for them--a
compound of matama flour mixed with the juices of a herb whose
virtues were only known to the Waganga of the Wanyamwezi.

At 6 A.M.  on the 4th of August we were once more prepared for the
road, but before we were marched out of the village, the "manneno,"
or speech, was delivered by the orator of the Wanyamwezi:

"Words! words! words!  Listen, sons of Mkasiwa, children of
Unyamwezi! the journey is before you, the thieves of the forest
are waiting; yes, they are thieves, they cut up your caravans,
they steal your ivory, they murder your women.  Behold, the Arabs
are with you, El Wali of the Arab sultan, and the white man are
with you.  Go, the son of Mkasiwa is with you; fight; kill, take
slaves, take cloth, take cattle, kill, eat, and fill yourselves!
Go!"

"A loud, wild shout followed this bold harangue, the gates of the
village were thrown open, and blue, red, and white-robed soldiers
were bounding upward like so many gymnasts; firing their guns
incessantly, in order to encourage themselves with noise, or to
strike terror into the hearts of those who awaited us within the
strong enclosure of Zimbizo, Sultan Kolongo's place.

As Zimbizo was distant only five hours from Umanda, at 11 A.M.
we came in view of it.  We halted on the verge of the cultivated
area around it and its neighbours within the shadow of the forest.
Strict orders had been given by the several chiefs to their
respective commands not to fire, until they were within shooting
distance of the boma.

Khamis bin Abdullah crept through the forest to the west of the
village.  The Wanyamwezi took their position before the main
gateway, aided by the forces of Soud the son of Sayd on the right,
and the son of Habib on the left, Abdullah, Mussoud, myself, and
others made ready to attack the eastern gates, which arrangement
effectually shut them in, with the exception of the northern side.

Suddenly, a volley opened on us as we emerged from the forest
along the Unyanyembe road, in the direction they had been
anticipating the sight of an enemy, and immediately the attacking
forces began their firing in most splendid style.  There were some
ludicrous scenes of men pretending to fire, then jumping off to one
side, then forward, then backward, with the agility of hopping
frogs, but the battle was none the less in earnest.  The
breech-loaders of my men swallowed my metallic cartridges much
faster than I liked to see; but happily there was a lull in the
firing, and we were rushing into the village from the west, the
south, the north, through the gates and over the tall palings
that surrounded the village, like so many Merry Andrews; and
the poor villagers were flying from the enclosure towards the
mountains, through the northern gate, pursued by the fleetest
runners of our force, and pelted in the back by bullets from
breech-loaders and shot-guns.

The village was strongly defended, and not more than twenty dead
bodies were found in it, the strong thick wooden paling having
afforded excellent protection against our bullets.

From Zimbizo, after having left a sufficient force within, we
sallied out, and in an hour had cleared the neighbourhood of the
enemy, having captured two other villages, which we committed to
the flames, after gutting them of all valuables.  A few tusks of
ivory, and about fifty slaves, besides an abundance of grain,
composed the "loot," which fell to the lot of the Arabs.

On the 5th, a detachment of Arabs and slaves, seven hundred strong,
scoured the surrounding country, and carried fire and devastation
up to the boma of Wilyankuru.

On the 6th, Soud bin Sayd and about twenty other young Arabs led
a force of five hundred men against Wilyankuru itself, where it
was supposed Mirambo was living.  Another party went out towards
the low wooded hills, a short distance north of Zimbizo, near
which place they surprised a youthful forest thief asleep, whose
head they stretched backwards, and cut it off as though he were a
goat or a sheep.  Another party sallied out southward, and defeated
a party of Mirambo's "bush-whackers," news of which came to our
ears at noon.

In the morning I had gone to Sayd bin Salim's tembe, to represent
to him how necessary it was to burn the long grass in the forest
of Zimbizo, lest it might hide any of the enemy; but soon
afterwards I had been struck down with another attack of
intermittent fever, and was obliged to turn in and cover myself
with blankets to produce perspiration; but not, however, till I
had ordered Shaw and Bombay not to permit any of my men to leave
the camp.  But I was told soon afterwards by Selim that more than
one half had gone to the attack on Wilyankuru with Soud bin Sayd.

About 6 P.M. the entire camp of Zimbizo was electrified with the
news that all the Arabs who had accompanied Soud bin Sayd had
been killed; and that more than one-half of his party had been
slain.  Some of my own men returned, and from them I learned
that Uledi, Grant's former valet, Mabruki Khatalabu
(Killer of his father), Mabruki (the Little), Baruti of Useguhha,
and Ferahan had been killed.  I learned also that they had
succeeded in capturing Wilyankuru in a very short time, that
Mirambo and his son were there, that as they succeeded in
effecting an entrance, Mirambo had collected his men, and after
leaving the village, had formed an ambush in the grass, on each
side of the road, between Wilyankuru and Zimbizo, and that as the
attacking party were returning home laden with over a hundred
tusks of ivory, and sixty bales of cloth, and two or three hundred
slaves, Mirambo's men suddenly rose up on each side of them, and
stabbed them with their spears.  The brave Soud had fired his
double-barrelled gun and shot two men, and was in the act of
loading again when a spear was launched, which penetrated through
and through him: all the other Arabs shared the same fate.
This sudden attack from an enemy they believed to be conquered
so demoralized the party that, dropping their spoil, each man
took to his heels, and after making a wide detour through the
woods, returned to Zimbizo to repeat the dolorous tale.

The effect of this defeat is indescribable.  It was impossible to
sleep, from the shrieks of the women whose husbands had fallen.
All night they howled their lamentations, and sometimes might be
heard the groans of the wounded who had contrived to crawl through
the grass unperceived by the enemy.  Fugitives were continually
coming in throughout the night, but none of my men who were
reported to be dead, were ever heard of again.

The 7th was a day of distrust, sorrow, and retreat; the Arabs
accused one another for urging war without expending all peaceful
means first.  There were stormy councils of war held, wherein
were some who proposed to return at once to Unyanyembe, and keep
within their own houses; and Khamis bin Abdullah raved, like an
insulted monarch, against the abject cowardice of his compatriots.
These stormy meetings and propositions to retreat were soon known
throughout the camp, and assisted more than anything else to
demoralize completely the combined forces of Wanyamwezi and
slaves.  I sent Bombay to Sayd bin Salim to advise him not to
think of retreat, as it would only be inviting Mirambo to carry
the war to Unyanyembe.

After, despatching Bombay with this message, I fell asleep, but
about 1.30 P.M. I was awakened by Selim saying, "Master, get up,
they are all running away, and Khamis bin Abdullah is himself
going."

With the aid of Selim I dressed myself, and staggered towards the
door.  My first view was of Thani bin Abdullah being dragged away,
who, when he caught sight of me, shouted out "Bana--quick--Mirambo
is coming."  He was then turning to run, and putting on his jacket,
with his eyes almost starting out of their sockets with terror.
Khamis bin Abdullah was also about departing, he being the last
Arab to leave.  Two of my men were following him; these Selim
was ordered to force back with a revolver.  Shaw was saddling
his donkey with my own saddle, preparatory to giving me the slip,
and leaving me in the lurch to the tender mercies of Mirambo.
There were only Bombay, Mabruki Speke, Chanda who was coolly
eating his dinner, Mabruk Unyauyembe, Mtamani, Juma, and
Sarmean---only seven out of fifty.  All the others had deserted,
and were by this time far away, except Uledi (Manwa Sera) and
Zaidi, whom Selim brought back at the point of a loaded revolver.
Selim was then told to saddle my donkey, and Bombay to assist
Shaw to saddle his own.  In a few moments we were on the road,
the men ever looking back for the coming enemy; they belabored
the donkeys to some purpose, for they went at a hard trot,
which caused me intense pain.  I would gladly have lain down
to die, but life was sweet, and I had not yet given up all
hope of being able to preserve it to the full and final
accomplishment of my mission.  My mind was actively at work
planning and contriving during the long lonely hours of night,
which we employed to reach Mfuto, whither I found the Arabs had
retreated.  In the night Shaw tumbled off his donkey, and would
not rise, though implored to do so.  As I did not despair myself,
so I did not intend that Shaw should despair.  He was lifted on
his animal, and a man was placed on each side of him to assist him;
thus we rode through the darkness.  At midnight we reached Mfuto
safely, and were at once admitted into the village, from which we
had issued so valiantly, but to which we were now returned so
ignominiously.

I found all my men had arrived here before dark.  Ulimengo, the
bold guide who had exulted in his weapons and in our numbers, and
was so sanguine of victory, had performed the eleven hours' march
in six hours; sturdy Chowpereh, whom I regarded as the
faithfullest of my people, had arrived only half an hour later
than Ulimengo; and frisky Khamisi, the dandy--the orator--the
rampant demagogue--yes--he had come third; and Speke's "Faithfuls"
had proved as cowardly as any poor "nigger" of them all.  Only
Selim was faithful.

I asked Selim, "Why did you not also run away, and leave your
master to die?"

"Oh, sir," said the Arab boy, naively, "I was afraid you would
whip me."


CHAPTER IX.  MY LIFE AND TROUBLES IN UNYANYEMBE-(continued).


It never occurred to the Arab magnates that I had cause of complaint
against them, or that I had a right to feel aggrieved at their
conduct, for the base desertion of an ally, who had, as a duty to
friendship, taken up arms for their sake.  Their "salaams" the next
morning after the retreat, were given as if nothing had transpired
to mar the good feeling that had existed  between us.

They were hardly seated, however, before I began to inform them
that as the war was only between them and Mirambo, and that as
I was afraid, if they were accustomed to run away after every
little check, that the war might last a much longer time than I
could afford to lose; and that as they had deserted their wounded
on the field, and left their sick friends to take care of
themselves, they must not consider me in the light of an ally
any more.  "I am satisfied," said I, "having seen your mode of
fighting, that the war will not be ended in so short a time as
you think it will.  It took you five years, I hear, to conquer
and kill Manwa Sera, you will certainly not conquer Mirambo in
less than a year.*  I am a white man, accustomed to wars after
a different style, I know something about fighting, but I never
saw people run away from an encampment like ours at Zimbizo for
such slight cause as you had.  By running away, you have invited
Mirambo to follow you to Unyanyembe; you may be sure he will come."
__________________
* The same war is still raging, April, 1874.
__________________

The Arabs protested one after another that they had not intended
to have left me, but the Wanyamwezi of Mkasiwa had shouted out
that the "Musungu" was gone, and the cry had caused a panic among
their people, which it was impossible to allay.

Later that day the Arabs continued their retreat to Tabora; which
is twenty-two miles distant from Mfuto.  I determined to proceed
more leisurely, and on the second day after the flight from
Zimbizo, the Expedition, with all the stores and baggage, marched
back to Masangi, and on the third day to Kwihara.

The following extracts from my Diary will serve to show better
than anything else, my feelings and thoughts about this time,
after our disgraceful retreat:

Kwihara.  Friday, 11th August, 1871.--Arrived to-day from Zimbili,
village of Bomboma's.  I am quite disappointed and almost
disheartened.  But I have one consolation, I have done my duty by
the Arabs, a duty I thought I owed to the kindness they received
me with, now, however, the duty is discharged, and I am free to
pursue my own course.  I feel happy, for some reasons, that the
duty has been paid at such a slight sacrifice.  Of course if I
had lost my life in this enterprise, I should have been justly
punished.  But apart from my duty to the consideration with
which the Arabs had received me, was the necessity of trying
every method of reaching Livingstone.  This road which the war
with Mirambo has closed, is only a month's march from this place,
and, if the road could be opened with my aid, sooner than without
it, why should I refuse my aid?  The attempt has been made for
the second time to Ujiji--both have failed.  I am going to try
another route; to attempt to go by the north would be folly.
Mirambo's mother and people, and the Wasui, are between me and
Ujiji, without including the Watuta, who are his allies, and
robbers.  The southern route seems to be the most practicable one.
Very few people know anything of the country south; those whom
I have questioned concerning it speak of "want of water" and
robber Wazavira, as serious obstacles; they also say that the
settlements are few and far between.

But before I can venture to try this new route, I have to employ
a new set of men, as those whom I took to Mfuto consider their
engagements at an end, and the fact of five of their number being
killed rather damps their ardor for travelling.  It is useless to
hope that Wanyamwezi can be engaged, because it is against their
custom to go with caravans, as carriers, during war time.  My
position is most serious.  I have a good excuse for returning to
the coast, but my conscience will not permit me to do so, after
so much money has been expended, and so much confidence has been
placed in me.  In fact, I feel I must die sooner than return.

Saturday, August 12th.--My men, as I supposed they would, have
gone; they said that I engaged them to go, to Ujiji by Mirambo's
road.  I have only thirteen left.

With this small body of men, whither can I go?  I have over one
hundred loads in the storeroom.  Livingstone's caravan is also
here; his goods consist of seventeen bales of cloth, twelve boxes,
and six bags of beads.  His men are luxuriating upon the best the
country affords.

If Livingstone is at Ujiji, he is now locked up with small means of
escape.  I may consider myself also locked up at Unyamyembe, and
I suppose cannot go to Ujiji until this war with Mirambo is
settled.  Livingstone cannot get his goods, for they are here with
mine.  He cannot return to Zanzibar, and the road to the Nile is
blocked up.  He might, if he has men and stores, possibly reach
Baker by travelling northwards, through Urundi, thence through
Ruanda, Karagwah, Uganda, Unyoro, and Ubari to Gondokoro.  Pagazis
he cannot obtain, for the sources whence a supply might be
obtained are closed.  It is an erroneous supposition to think that
Livingstone, any more than any other energetic man of his calibre,
can travel through Africa without some sort of an escort,
and a durable supply of marketable cloth and beads.

I was told to-day by a man that when Livingstone was coming from
Nyassa Lake towards the Tanganika (the very time that people
thought him murdered) he was met by Sayd bin Omar's caravan, which
was bound for Ulamba.  He was travelling with Mohammed bin Gharib.
This Arab, who was coming from Urunga, met Livingstone at Chi-cumbi's,
or Kwa-chi-kumbi's, country, and travelled with him afterwards, I
hear, to Manyuema or Manyema.  Manyuema is forty marches from
the north of Nyassa.  Livingstone was walking; he was dressed in
American sheeting.  He had lost all his cloth in Lake Liemba while
crossing it in a boat.  He had three canoes with him; in one he
put his cloth, another he loaded with his boxes and some of his
men, into the third he went himself with two servants and two
fishermen.  The boat with his cloth was upset.  On leaving Nyassa,
Livingstone went to Ubisa, thence to Uemba, thence to Urungu.
Livingstone wore a cap.  He had a breech-loading double-barreled
rifle with him, which fired fulminating balls.  He was also armed
with two revolvers.  The Wahiyow with Livingstone told this man
that their master had many men with him at first, but that
several had deserted him.

