Chief Justice Matthews, while presiding over the Supreme Court at
Washington, took the several Justices of the Court for a run down
Chesapeake Bay.  A stiff wind sprang up, and Justice Gray was getting
decidedly the worst of it. As he leaned over the rail in great
distress, Chief Justice Matthews touched him on the shoulder and said
in a tone of deepest sympathy: "Is there anything I can do for you,
Gray?"

"No, thank you," returned the sick Justice, "unless your Honor can
overrule this motion."


_He Was Willing to Oblige_

A young North Carolina girl is charming, but, like a great many other
charming people, she is poor.  She never has more than two evening
gowns in a season, and the ruin of one of them is always a very
serious matter to her.  She went to a little dancing-party last week
and she wore a brand-new white frock.  During the evening a great big,
red-faced, perspiring man came up and asked her to dance.  He wore no
gloves.  She looked at his well-meaning but moist hands despairingly,
and thought of the immaculate back of her waist.  She hesitated a bit,
and then she said, with a winning smile;

"Of course I'll dance with you, but, if you don't mind, won't you
please use your handkerchief?"

The man looked at her blankly a moment or two.  Then a light broke
over his face.

"Why, certainly," he said.

And he pulled out his handkerchief and blew his nose.


_Not All the Time, But_----

A man saw a waiter in a restaurant spill a tureen of tomato soup over
a young lady's white gown.

The young lady, instead of flying into a passion, smiled.  She said it
didn't matter.  She continued to eat and to talk as though nothing had
happened.

This so impressed the man that he got an introduction to the young
lady, proposed to her at the end of a month or so, and was accepted.

Some time after the marriage he spoke of the tomato-soup accident.

"I shall never forget it," said the bride.

"Your conduct," said the man, "was admirable."

"I remember," she said, "that I did behave very well at the time; but
I wish you could have seen the marks of my teeth on the bedpost that
night."


_Necessity and Invention_

A mother with her seven children started away on a journey.  After
entering the car the largest child was laid out flat on the seat, and
the remaining six then sat upon him in a row.

When the conductor came around to collect the fares the mother counted
her money, handed it over, smiled, and suavely said: "Sir, the oldest
is under six."


_Taking No Chances_

An epileptic dropped in a fit on the streets of Boston not long ago,
and was taken to a hospital.  Upon removing his coat there was found
pinned to his waistcoat a slip of paper on which was written:

"This is to inform the house-surgeon that this is just a case of plain
fit: not appendicitis.  My appendix has already been removed twice."


_Too Much Curiosity_

A dangerous operation was being performed upon a woman.  Old Doctor
A------, a quaint German, full of kindly wit and professional
enthusiasm, had several younger doctors with him.  One of them was
administering the ether.  He became so interested in the old doctor's
work that he withdrew the cone from the patient's nostrils and she
half-roused and rose to a sitting posture, looking with wild-eyed
amazement over the surroundings.  It was a critical period, and Doctor
A------ did not want to be interrupted.  "Lay down, dere, voman," he
commanded gruffly.  "You haf more curiosity as a medical student."


_They Were Both Charged_

A little girl, brushing her hair, found that it "crackled," and asked
her mother why it did.

"Why, dear, you have electricity in your hair," explained the mother.

"Isn't that funny?" commented the little one.  "I have electricity in
my hair, and Grandmother has gas in her stomach."


_Could Use the Other Kind, Too_

"Here," said the salesman, "is something we call the 'lovers' clock.'
You can set it so it will take it two hours to run one hour."

"I'll take that," said Miss Jarmer with a bright blush.  "And now, if
you have one that can be set so as to run two hours in one hour's time
or less, I think I'd like one of that kind, too."


_A Regard for Appearance_

A milliner endeavored to sell to a colored woman one of the last
season's hats at a very moderate price.  It was a big white
picture-hat.

"Law, no, honey!" exclaimed the woman.  "I could nevah wear that.  I'd
look jes' like a blueberry in a pan of milk."


_Rapid-Fire_

A frivolous young English girl, with no love for the Stars and
Stripes, once exclaimed at a celebration where the American flag was
very much in evidence:

"Oh, what a silly-looking thing the American flag is!  It suggests
nothing but checker-berry candy."

"Yes," replied a bystander, "the kind of candy that has made everybody
sick who ever tried to lick it."


_Kipling at a Luncheon_

At a tea the other day, says "The New York Sun," a woman heard the
following remarks made about her favorite author.  She turned to
listen, amazed by the eccentricities of conduct narrated.

"Yes, you know," the hostess was saying, "Kipling came in and behaved
so strangely!  At luncheon he suddenly sprang up and wouldn't let the
waitress come near the table.  Every time that she tried to come near
he would jump at her.

"He made a dive for the cake, which was on the lower shelf of the
sideboard, and took it into the parlor to eat it.  He got the crumbs
all over the sofa and the beautiful rug.

"When he had finished his cake he simply sat and glared at us."

The visitor finally could not control herself, and asked:

"Excuse me, but are you speaking of Mr. Rudyard Kipling?"

"Mr. Rudyard Kipling?" echoed the hostess.  "Oh, no; Kipling is our
dog!"


_Getting His Trousseau Ready_

The kindly 'Squire of the neighborhood was just leaving from a
friendly social visit to Mrs. Maguire.

"And your son, Mrs. Maguire?" said the 'Squire as he reached for his
hat.  "I hope he is well.  Busy, I suppose, getting ready for his
wedding tonight ?"

"Well, not very busy this minit, 'Squire," answered the beaming
mother.  "He's upstairs in bed while I'm washing out his trousseau."


_There Was a Chance_

"Going to send your boy on an ocean trip, are you?" said a friend to
a father.

"Yes," replied the father.  "You see, if there is anything in him I
think a long sea voyage will bring it out."


_Deserved to be Tried_

The Judge was at dinner in the new household when the young wife
asked: "Did you ever try any of my biscuits, Judge?"

"No," said the Judge, "I never did, but I dare say they deserve it."


_End of the Honeymoon_

An old married man happened to meet a beaming bridegroom on the
latter'S first day at business after the wedding trip.

"Hello!" said he; "finished your honeymoon yet?"

"I don't know," replied the happy husband, smiling.  "I have never
been able to determine the exact meaning of the word honeymoon."

"Well, then, has your wife commenced to do the cooking yet?"


_If You Have a Mole_

No one is said to be without a mole or two, and these are some of the
prognostications that mole-wearers may draw from their brown
ornaments;

A mole on the right side of a man's forehead denotes wonderful luck;
on the right side of a woman's forehead, gifts from the dead.

On the left side of a man's forehead a mole denotes a long term in
prison, on the left side of a woman's forehead, two husbands and a
life of exile.

A man with a mole in the middle of his forehead has a cruel mind; a
woman with such a mole is foolish and envious.

A mole on the neck in man or woman promises a long and happy life,
wealth and fame.

A man with a mole on the left side of the upper lip rarely marries,
and such a mole in the case of a woman denotes suffering.

On the right side of the upper-lip a mole promises great good fortune
to both sexes.


_Her Own Eyes Good Enough for Him_

A little Scotch boy's grandmother was packing his luncheon for him to
take to school one morning.  Suddenly looking up in the old lady's
face, he said:

"Grandmother, does yer specs magnify?"

"A little, my child," she answered.

"Aweel, then," said the boy, "I wad juist like it if ye wad tak' them
aff when ye're packin' my loonch."


_How Did He Know_?

After dinner, when the ladies had gone upstairs, the men, over their
coffee and cigars, talked, as men will, of love.

All of a sudden the host cried in a loud voice:

"I will tell you, gentlemen, this is the truth: I have kissed the
dainty Japanese girl.  I have kissed the South Sea Island maiden.  I
have kissed the slim Indian beauty.  And the girls of England, of
Germany, even of America, I have kissed, but it is most true that to
kiss my wife is best of all."

Then a young man cried across the table:

"By Heaven, sir, you are right there!"


_So Mother--So Son_

Vincent was altogether too garrulous in school to please his
teachers.  Such punishments as the institution allowed to be meted
out were tried without any apparent effect upon the boy until at last
the head Master decided to mention the lad's fault upon his monthly
report.

So the next report to his father had these words: "Vincent talks a
great deal."

Back came the report by mail duly signed, but with this written in
red ink under the comment: "You ought to hear his mother."


_An Endless Wash_

In one of the lesser Indian hill wars an English detachment took an
Afghan prisoner.  The Afghan was very dirty.  Accordingly two
privates were deputed to strip and wash him.

The privates dragged the man to a stream of running water, undressed
him, plunged him in, and set upon him lustily with stiff brushes and
large cakes of white soap.

After a long time one of the privates came back to make a report.  He
saluted his officer and said disconsolately:

"It's no use, sir.  It's no use."

"No use?" said the officer.  "What do you mean?  Haven't you washed
that Afghan yet?"

"It's no use, sir," the private repeated.  "We've washed him for two
hours, but it's no use."

"How do you mean it's no use ?" said the officer angrily.

"Why, sir," said the private, "after rubbin' him and scrubbin' him
till our arms ached I'll be hanged if we didn't come to another suit
of clothes."


_Once Dead Always Dead_

The hero of the play, after putting up a stiff fight with the
villain, had died to slow music, says a storyteller in "The Chicago
Tribune."

The audience insisted on his coming before the curtain.

He refused to appear.

But the audience still insisted.

Then the manager, a gentleman with a strong accent, came to the front.

"Ladies an' gintlemen," he said, "the carpse thanks ye kindly, but he
says he's dead, an' he's goin' to stay dead."


_Had to Get it Done Somehow_

A little boy bustled into a grocery one day with a memorandum in his
hand.

"Hello, Mr. Smith," he said.  "I want thirteen pounds of coffee at 32
cents."

"Very good," said the grocer, and he noted down the sale, and put his
clerk to packing the coffee.  "Anything else, Charlie?"

"Yes.  Twenty-seven pounds of sugar at 9 cents."

"The loaf, eh?  And what else?"

"Seven and a half pounds of bacon at 20 cents."

"That will be a good brand.  Go on."

"Five pounds of tea at 90 cents; eleven and a half quarts of molasses
at 8 cents a pint; two eight-pound hams at 21 1/4 cents, and five
dozen jars of pickled walnuts at 24 cents a jar."

The grocer made out the bill,

"It's a big order," he said.  "Did your mother tell you to pay for
it?"

"My mother," said the boy, as he pocketed the neat and accurate bill,
"has nothing to do with this business.  It is my arithmetic lesson
and I had to get it done somehow."


_A Personal Demonstration_

Chatting in leisurely fashion with Prince Bismarck in Berlin Lord
Russell asked the Chancellor how he managed to rid himself of
importunate visitors whom he could not refuse to see, but who stuck
like burrs when once admitted.

"Oh," replied Bismarck, "I have my easy escape.  My wife knows people
of this class very well, and when she is sure there is a bore here
and sees them staying too long she manages to call me away on some
plausible pretext."

Scarcely had he finished speaking when the Princess Bismarck appeared
at the door.  "My dear," she said to her husband, "you must come at
once and take your medicine; you should have taken it an hour ago."


_Not for Him_

A quiet and retiring citizen occupied a seat near the door of a
crowded car when a masterful stout woman entered.

Having no newspaper behind which to hide he was fixed and subjugated
by her glittering eye.  He rose and offered his place to her.
Seating herself--without thanking him--she exclaimed in tones that
reached to the farthest end of the car:

"What do you want to stand up there for?  Come here and sit on my
lap."

"Madam," gasped the man, as his face became scarlet.  "I beg your
pardon, I--I----"

"What do you mean?" shrieked the woman.  "You know very well I was
speaking to my niece there behind you."


_Such a Pleasant Room_

"It ain't ev'rybody I'd put to sleep in this room," said old Mrs.
Jinks to the fastidious and extremely nervous young minister who was
spending a night at her house.

"This here room is full of sacred associations to me," she went on,
as she bustled around opening shutters and arranging the curtains.
"My first husband died in that bed with his head on these very
pillers, and poor Mr. Jinks died settin' right in that corner.
Sometimes when I come into the room in the dark I think I see him
settin' there still.

"My own father died layin' right on that lounge under the winder.
Poor Pa!  He was a Speeritualist, and he allus said he'd appear in
this room after he died, and sometimes I'm foolish enough to look for
him.  If you should see anything of him tonight you'd better not tell
me; for it'd be a sign to me that there was something in
Speeritualism, and I'd hate to think that.

"My son by my first man fell dead of heart-disease right where you
stand.  He was a doctor, and there's two whole skeletons in that
closet that belonged to him, and half a dozen skulls in that lower
drawer.

"There, I guess things'll do now----

"Well, good-night, and pleasant dreams."


_Giving a Woman Her Rights_

The car was full and the night was wet.  The bell rang, the car
stopped, and a lady entered.  As she looked tired a nice old
gentleman in the corner rose and inquired in a kind voice, "Would you
like to sit down, ma'am?  Excuse me, though," he added; "I think you
are Mrs. Sprouter, the advocate of woman's rights."

"I am, sir," replied the lady calmly.

"You think that women should be equal to men?" further queried the
old gentleman.

"Certainly," was the firm reply.

"You think that they should have the same rights and privileges?" was
the next question.

"Most emphatically," came from the supporter of woman's rights.

"Very well," said the kind old gentleman, sitting down again, "just
stand up and enjoy them."


_A Riddle to Willie_

  I asked my Pa a simple thing;
    "Where holes in doughnuts go?"
  Pa read his paper, then he said:
    "Oh, you're too young to know."

  I asked my Ma about the wind:
    "Why can't you see it blow?"
  Ma thought a moment, then she said:
   "Oh, you're too young to know."

  Now, why on earth do you suppose
    They went and licked me so?
  Ma asked: "Where is that jam?"  I said:
    "Oh, you're too young to know."


_Under Her Bed_

Mrs. Hicks was telling some ladies about the burglar scare in her
house the night before.

"Yes," she said, "I heard a noise and got up, and there from under
the bed I saw a man's legs sticking out."

"Mercy," exclaimed a woman--"the burglar's legs?"

"No, my dear, my husband's legs.  He had heard the noise, too."


_Didn't Think He Was Polite_

They were on their honeymoon.  He had bought a catboat and had taken
her out to show her how well he could handle a boat, putting her to
tend the sheet.  A puff of wind came, and he shouted in no uncertain
tones:

"Let go the sheet."

No response.

Then again:

"Let go that sheet, quick."

Still no movement.  A few minutes after, when both were clinging to
the bottom of the overturned boat, he said:

"Why didn't you let go that sheet when I told you to, dear?"

"I would have," said the bride, "if you had not been so rough about
it.  You ought to speak more kindly to your wife."


_He Had a Large Reach_

President Eliot, of Harvard, on a visit to the Pacific Coast, met
Professor O. B. Johnson, of the University of Washington, says "The
New York Tribune." In the course of the conversation President Eliot
asked the Westerner what chair he held.

"Well," said Professor Johnson, "I am professor of biology, but I
also give instruction in meteorology, botany, physiology, chemistry,
entomology and a few others."

"I should say that you occupied a whole settee, not a chair," replied
Harvard's chief.


_When Fighting Really Began_

An aged, gray-haired and very wrinkled old woman, arrayed in the
outlandish calico costume of the mountains, was summoned as a witness
in court to tell what she knew about a fight in her house.  She took
the witness-stand with evidences of backwardness and proverbial
Bourbon verdancy.  The Judge asked her in a kindly voice what took
place.  She insisted it did not amount to much, but the Judge by his
persistency finally got her to tell the story of the bloody fracas.

"Now, I tell ye, Jedge, it didn't amount to nuthn'.  The fust I
knowed about it was when Bill Saunder called Tom Smith a liar, en Tom
knocked him down with a stick o' wood.  One o' Bill's friends then
cut Tom with a knife, slicin' a big chunk out o' him.  Then Sam
Jones, who was a friend of Tom's, shot the other feller and two more
shot him, en three or four others got cut right smart by somebody.
That nachly caused some excitement, Jedge, en then they commenced
fightin'."


_The Wrong Kind of a Baby_

In a certain home where the stork recently visited there is a
six-year-old son of inquiring mind.  When he was first taken in to
see the new arrival he exclaimed:

"Oh, mamma, it hasn't any teeth!  And no hair!"  Then, clasping his
hands in despair, he cried: "Somebody has done us!  It's an old baby."


_A Poser for the Salesman_

"It's not so much a durable article that I require, sir," said Miss
Simpkins.  "I want something dainty, you know; something coy, and at
the same time just a wee bit saucy--that might look well for evening
wear."


_Not in the Army, After All_

A Methodist negro exhorter shouted: "Come up en jine de army ob de
Lohd."

"Ise done jined," replied one of the congregation.

"Whar'd yoh jine?" asked the exhorter.

"In de Baptis' Chu'ch."

"Why, chile," said the exhorter, "yoh ain't in the army; yoh's in de
navy."


[Transcriber's Note:  The copy of this book I was working from was
missing pages 71-74 inclusive.]


_Her Literary Loves_

A talented young professor who was dining one evening at the home of
a college president became very much interested in the very pretty
girl seated at his left.  Conversation was somewhat fitful.  Finally
he decided to guide it into literary channels, where he was more at
home, and, turning to his companion, asked;

"Are you fond of literature?"

"Passionately," she replied.  "I love books dearly."

"Then you must admire Sir Walter Scott," he exclaimed with sudden
animation.  "Is not his 'Lady of the Lake' exquisite in its flowing
grace and poetic imagery?  Is it not----"

"It is perfectly lovely," she assented, clasping her hands in
ecstasy.  "I suppose I have read it a dozen times."

"And Scott's 'Marmion/" he continued, "with its rugged simplicity and
marvelous description--one can almost smell the heather on the heath
while perusing its splendid pages."

"It is perfectly grand," she murmured.

"And Scott's 'Peveril of the Peak' and his noble 'Bride of
Lammermoor'--where in the English language will you find anything
more heroic than his grand auld Scottish characters and his graphic,
forceful pictures of feudal times and customs?  You like them, I am
sure."

"I just dote upon them," she replied.

"And Scott's Emulsion," he continued hastily, for a faint suspicion
was beginning to dawn upon him.

"I think," she interrupted rashly, "that it's the best thing he ever
wrote."


_How Grandma Viewed Them_

"I'm glad Billy had the sense to marry a settled old maid," said
Grandma Winkum at the wedding.

"Why, Grandma?" asked the son.

"Well, gals is hity-tity, and widders is kinder overrulin' and
upsettin'.  But old maids is thankful and willin' to please."


_So Easy When it is Explained_

A woman riding in a Philadelphia trolley-car said to the conductor:

"Can you tell me, please, on what trolley-cars I can use these
exchange slips?  They mix me up somewhat."

"They really shouldn't, madam," said the polite conductor.  "It is
very simple: East of the junction by a westbound car an exchange from
an eastbound car is good only if the westbound car is west of the
junction formed by said eastbound car.  South of the junction formed
by a northbound car an exchange from a southbound car is good south
of the junction if the northbound car was north of the junction at
the time of issue, but only south of the junction going south if the
southbound car was going north at the time it was south of the
junction.  That is all there is to it."


_Sixty Girls Not One Too Many_

A New York firm recently hung the following sign at the entrance of a
large building: "Wanted: Sixty girls to sew buttons on the sixth
floor."


_One on the President_

When the President alighted at Red Hill, Virginia, a few months ago,
to see his wife's new cottage, he noticed that an elderly woman was
about to board the train, and, with his usual courtesy, he rushed
forward to assist her.  That done, he grasped her hand and gyve it an
"executive shake."  This was going too far, and the woman, snatching
her hand away and eying him wrathfully, exclaimed: "Young man, I
don't know who you are, and I don't care a cent; but I must say you
are the freshest somebody I've ever seen in these parts."


_No Doubt of it_

The lesson was from the "Prodigal Son," and the Sunday-school teacher
was dwelling on the character of the elder brother.  "But amidst all
the rejoicing," he said, "there was one to whom the preparation of
the feast brought no joy, to whom the prodigal's return gave no
pleasure, but only bitterness; one who did not approve of the feast
being held, and had no wish to attend it.  Now can any of you tell
who this was?"  There was a short silence, followed by a vigorous
cracking of thumbs, and then from a dozen little mouths came the
chorus: "Please, sir, it was the fatted calf."


_The Lesson Stopped_

The teacher was taking a class in the infant Sabbath-school room and
was making her pupils finish each sentence to show that they
understood her.

"The idol had eyes," the teacher said, "but it could not----"

"See," cried the children.

"It had ears, but it could not----"

"Hear," was the answer.

"It had lips," she said, "but it could not----"

"Speak," once more replied the children.

"It had a nose, but it could not----"

"Wipe it," shouted the children; and the lesson had to stop a moment.


_The Wrong One_

A young man had been calling now and then on a young lady, when one
night, as he sat in the parlor waiting for her to come down, her
mother entered the room instead, and asked him in a very grave, stern
way what his intentions were.

He turned very red, and was about to stammer some incoherent reply,
when suddenly the young lady called down from the head of the stairs:

"Mamma, mamma, that is not the one."


_A Good Pair of Boots_

"You know," said a "smart" young man to a girl, "some one has said
that 'if you would make a lasting pair of boots take for the sole the
tongue of a woman.'"

"Yes," replied the girl, "and for the uppers you ought to take the
cheek of the man who said it."


_Not Just the Right Place_

A bashful young couple, who were evidently very much in love, entered
a crowded street car.

"Do you suppose we can squeeze in here?" he asked, looking doubtfully
at her blushing face.

"Don't you think, dear, we had better wait until we get home?" was
the low, embarrassed reply.


_What Else Could He Be_?

There is a man who is the head of a large family, nearly every member
of which is a performer on some kind of musical instrument.

A friend who was visiting the house of this man referred to the fact,
remarking that it must be a source of great pleasure to the family,
but to this observation the father made no reply.

"Really," continued the friend, "it is remarkable.  Your younger son
is a cornetist, both your daughters are pianists, your wife is a
violinist, and, I understand, the others are also musicians.  Now
what are you, the father of such a musical combination ?"

"I," replied the old man sadly--"I am a pessimist."


_He Had to Stand Up_

An American doctor built an elegant home, says the "San Francisco
Chronicle"; his bathroom was exceptionally beautiful, being of white
marble with silver hardware; a music-box was concealed in the room.
After completion of the home an Englishman came to visit the doctor.
Now the English always show great respect for their sovereign and
their country, and this one was no exception.

After showing his home to the Englishman the doctor remembered the
fondness English people have for the bath, and escorted his guest to
the bathroom, and while there turned on the music-box, wishing to
give his guest a pleasant surprise as he bathed.  Then he left his
friend in the bathroom.

About an hour later the Englishman joined his host in the
drawing-room.  The doctor immediately asked what his guest thought of
the bathroom.  The Englishman replied: "It is beautiful, beautiful."

"Well," said the doctor, "how did you like my music-box?"

Said his guest with great disgust in his tones:

"Bah!  That music-box!  The old thing played 'God Save the King,' and
I had to stand up the whole time I was trying to bathe."


_His Heartbreaking Task_

"Darling," said the bride, "I had a terrible feeling of sadness come
over me this afternoon--a sort of feeling that you were doing
something that would break my heart if I knew of it.  Think, sweet,
what were you doing, now, this afternoon at four o'clock?"

"Dearest," replied the husband tenderly and reassuringly, "at that
hour I was licking stamps and pasting them on envelopes."


_Easily Accounted For_

An Irishman, upon arriving in America, was asked his name at Ellis
Island.  He gave it.

"Speak louder," said the officer.

He repeated it.

"Louder," again said the officer; "why, man, your voice is as soft as
a woman's!"

"Well," said Pat, "that might be.  Me mother was a woman."


_The Retort Courteous_!

A merry party being gathered in a city flat made such a racket that
the occupant of a neighboring apartment sent his servant down with a
polite message asking if it would be possible for the party to make
less noise, since, as the servant announced, "Mr. Smith says that he
cannot read."

