It would be scarcely fair to neglect altogether the English annex in
which all the agricultural implements are exhibited, nor that which
contains its carriages. So much commercial intercourse, so many journals
published in the respective countries, have made each pretty well
acquainted with the agricultural machines and methods of the other. The
principal difference is in the splendid plant for steam-ploughing
exhibited by Fowler & Son and by Aveling & Porter, and in the great
number and variety of the machines and apparatus for preparing food for
animals--chaff-cutters, oat- and bean-bruisers and crushers,
oilcake-grinders, boilers and steamers for feed and mills for rough
grinding of grain.

A shed by the annex contains two curious machines for working stone--one
a dresser, belonging to Brunton & Triers, which has a large wheel and a
number of planetary cutters whose disk edges as they revolve cut the
stone against which they impinge. The other machine, by Weston & Co., is
for planing stone mouldings. The stone-drills are in the same annex;
also the Smith and the Hardy brakes, the former of which is the European
rival of the Westinghouse, acting upon the vacuum principle, and already
in possession of so many of the lines in Europe that it proves a serious
competitor.

Perhaps nothing in the French Exposition excites more surprise in the
minds of those who are conversant with technical matters than the
immense advance of the French since 1867 in the matter of machinery. The
simple statement of the names of the exhibitors, their residences and
the subject-matter occupies a large volume, and the quality and variety
are equal to the quantity.

Reference has been made to the web perfecting printing-machine in the
English section, but quite a number are shown in the French department,
three of them by Marinoni of Paris, one of which prints the journal _La
France_, eighteen thousand an hour. It prints, cuts, counts, folds and
piles the papers. Another by the same maker prints twenty thousand an
hour of the _Weekly Dispatch_ (English paper), and counts and piles them
in heaps of one hundred each. A third works on the _Petit Journal_,
printing forty thousand per hour with two forms. Alauzet & Co. have also
a web perfecting press, _à double touche_, for illustrated papers and
book-printing. This wets, prints, cuts, counts and folds in octavo four
thousand per hour of super-royal size. They also show a double railway
topographic press, printing in two colors. Vauthier's roller-press is
arranged to work on an endless roll of paper or on sheets fed in as
usual, and prints in six colors. Electro shells are secured in position
on the respective rollers, which are in horizontal series, and the paper
is conducted by tapes to the rollers in succession. The French section
shows a great variety of polychrome, lithographic and zincographic
printing-machines, and also a great number of ordinary job and card
presses, the most interest, however, centring in the large number and
variety of the web perfecting presses for newspapers and for bill-work
where long numbers are required.

France has a right to exemplify the Jacquard in its fulness, for it is
hers. The original machine of Vaucanson and that of Jacquard are in the
Conservatoire des Arts et Metiérs, as well as a long series of
exemplifications of successive improvements. The Grand Maison de Blanc
of Paris has a large one, making an immense linen cloth of damask
figures, all in white, and representing what I took at first to be an
allegorical picture of all the nations bringing their gifts to the
Exposition. I found afterward that it was called _Fées du Dessert_. It
is about three mètres wide, and just as long as you please to make it,
but the pattern is repeated every five mètres. The design, on paper, is
hung against the wall, and is twelve by eight mètres, all laid off in
squares of twelve millimètres, and these again into smaller ones exactly
a square millimètre in size. The number of small squares on the sheet of
paper is ninety-six million, which represents the number of the
intersections of the warp and woof in the pattern. There are nine
thousand and sixty-six perforated cards in the Jacquard arrangement for
floating the threads which form the damask pattern, and the whole
machine stands on a space of about twenty by twelve feet and is eighteen
feet high. It is worked by one man, without steam-power, the shifting of
the harness being done by two foot-levers and the shuttle thrown by a
pull-cord.

We may here observe the looms that weave the marvellously fine silk
gauzes realizing such fanciful Indian names as "morning mist," which
poetically express the lightness of a web that when spread upon the
grass is not visible unless one stoops down and examines closely. To
even name the various looms here would be to make a list of ribbons,
velvets, cloths and other tissues. The subsidiary machines for dressing
the fabrics are here also--for napping, teasling, shearing, stretching
and brushing, for measuring, folding and packing.

The other modes of making fabrics shown are a machine for making
fishing-nets of great width, and a number of knitting-machines, from the
stocking-frame of eighty years ago to the small domestic machine, and
the larger one with nine hundred needles in the circumference and making
a circular seamless fabric eighteen inches in diameter. The march of
improvement is eminently shown here, where an old man is patiently
knitting a flat web of ten inches with a series of five motions between
the rows of stitches, while just by are the circular machines, whose
motions are so rapid that the clicks of the needles merge into a whir,
and a man is able to attend to six machines, making one hundred and
thirty pounds of knitted goods per day.

Passing the large exhibit of machines for the working of fibres
preliminary to the loom--the carding, roving, spinning, reeling and
warping--and the allied but different machines which make wire-cloths of
different meshes and size, we come to the ropemaking-machines for hemp
and wire, which are shown principally in their products, the
manufacture taking an amount of room and material which could hardly be
expected to be efficiently shown in a crowded building where space is
valuable.

The French plant for boring small shafts to find water or obtain
sections of the strata, and the larger ones for sinking large ones for
mines, are shown by several exhibitors. The annular drills remove
cylindrical sections of the strata from ten to sixty centimètres in
diameter: the large chisels resemble those described in the Belgian
exhibit, having a diameter of four mètres and a weight of twenty-five
thousand kilos.

The department of mining has some excellent large models of mining
districts, in which the face of the country is represented with the
natural undulations, the villages, roads, fields and streams, and made
in removal-sections which expose the underlying strata, the galleries,
drifts and shafts of the subterranean world.

An attempt to describe the steam-engines, of such various size, shape,
position and capacity, would exhaust all the space permissible in a
magazine article.

The wood-working tools of France are excellent, and our manufacturers
must look well to their laurels. We have as yet the advantage in
compactness and simplicity, with adjustability and adaptation to varying
classes of work. The band-saw is claimed as a French invention, and the
crowds around the workman who saws a roomful of dolls' furniture out of
a single block as large as one's fist are as great here as they were at
Philadelphia. The Blanchard lathe for turning irregular forms is here in
a variety of forms. This is an interesting object of study, as
illustrating the usual course of invention, in which a master-hand
grasps a subject which has been suggested in an incomplete and
comparatively ineffective manner from time to time by others. De la Hire
and Condamine during the last century described lathes adapted to turn
irregular shapes, and the scoring-machine for ships' blocks invented by
Brunel and made by Maudslay for Chatham dockyard in England, 1802-8,
was as perfect an exemplification of the idea as the nature of the work
to be done required. Blanchard, however, in 1819 gave the finishing
stroke, and the lathe will bear his name for long years. Inventors of
three nations attacked the problem, and each aided the result.

Brickmaking, diamond-cutting; machines for making paper bags, envelopes,
cuffs and collars; distilleries, sugar-mills, with the successive
apparatus of vacuum-pans, pumps and centrifugal filters; soap, stearine,
paraffine, wax, candle, candy and chocolate machines and
apparatus,--succeed each other, and we next find ourselves in a busy
factory of cheap jewelry, Exposition souvenirs and medals, chains and
charms. The leather machinery is deserving of a careful description, but
it would be too technical perhaps, and there is no romance in the
handling of wet hides, the scraping, currying, stretching and pommelling
which even the thickness, prepare the surface and develop the pliability
of the leather. Near this is the boot- and shoe-making, sewing and
cable-screw wire machines, but none for pegging. Sewing-machines, copies
of the various American forms, occupy the end of the hall.

Separate buildings around the grounds and on both banks of the Seine
contain groups of machinery at which we can but glance. Two long
pavilions have agricultural machines, and one each is appropriated to
materials for railways, to civil engineering, pumps, gas-works, the
forges of Terre Noire, the iron-works of Creusot, the ministry of public
works, stoves, the government manufacture of tobacco, navigation,
life-saving apparatus of floats and boats, fire-engines and ceramics.
Add to these two annexes, each one thousand feet long, containing
locomotives, cars, street-cars, telegraph-apparatus and many acres of
the surplus machinery of all classes excluded from the large building
for want of room, and a person may form some adequate idea of the
immense extent and variety of this wonderful collection.

  EDWARD H. KNIGHT.


THE COLONEL'S SENTENCE: AN ALGERIAN STORY.


"I've known many clever fellows in my time," said Paul Dupont, French
sous-lieutenant in the --th of the line, as he sat sipping his coffee in
front of the Hôtel de la Régence at Algiers, "but by far the cleverest
man I ever met was our old colonel, Henri de Malet. People said he ought
to have been an _avocat_, but that was giving him but half his due, for
I'll be bound he could have outflanked any lawyer that ever wore a gown.
In his latter days he always went by the name of 'Solomon the Second;'
and if you care to hear how he came by it I'll tell you.

"Before he came to us De Malet was military commandant at Oran, and it
was there that he did one of his best strokes--outgeneralling a
camel-driver from Tangier, one of those thorough-paced Moorish rascals
of whom the saying goes, 'Two Maltese to a Jew, and three Jews to a
Moor,' Now this Tangerine, when pulled up for some offence or other,
swore that he wasn't Muley the camel-driver at all, but quite another
man; and as his friends all swore the same, and he had managed to alter
his appearance a bit before he was arrested, he seemed safe to get off.
But our colonel wasn't to be done in that way. He pretended to dismiss
the case, and allowed the fellow to get right out into the street as if
all was over; and then he suddenly shouted after him, 'Muley the
camel-driver, I want to speak to you.' The old rogue, hearing his own
name, turned and came back before he could recollect himself; and so he
was caught in spite of all his cunning.

"The fame of this exploit went abroad like wildfire, and it got to be a
saying among us, whenever we heard of any very clever trick, that it was
'one of Colonel de Malet's judgments;' and so, when he was transferred
from Oran to Algiers, it was just as if we all knew him already,
although none of us had ever seen him before. But it wasn't long before
we got a much better story than that about him; for one night a man
dined at our mess who had known the colonel out in India, and told us a
grand tale of how he had astonished them all at Pondicherry. It seems
that some things had been stolen from the officers' quarters, and nobody
could tell who had done it. The first thing next morning the colonel
went along the line at early parade, giving each of the native soldiers
a small strip of bamboo; and then he said, very solemnly, 'My children,
there is a guilty man among us, and it has been revealed to me by Brahma
himself how his guilt is to be made clear. Let every man of you come
forward in his turn and give me his piece of bamboo; and the thief, let
him do what he may, will have the longest piece.'

"Now, you know what superstitious hounds those Asiatic fellows always
are; and when they heard this announcement they all looked at each other
like children going to be whipped. The colonel took the bamboos one
after another, as solemnly as if he were on a court-martial, but when
about a dozen men had gone past he suddenly sprang forward and seized
one of them by the throat, shouting at the full pitch of his voice, 'You
are the man!'

"Down went the fellow on his knees and yelled for mercy, confessing that
he _was_ the man, sure enough. As for the rest, they looked as
frightened as if all the gods in the caverns of Elephanta had come
flying down among them at once; and from that day forth they salaamed to
the very ground at the mere sight of the colonel half a mile off.

"'How on earth did you manage that, colonel?' asked the senior major, a
great fat fellow, as stupid as a carp.[7]

"'Nothing simpler, my dear fellow,' answered De Malet, laughing. 'The
strips were all exactly the same length, and the thief, fearing to get
the longest piece, betrayed himself by _biting off the end_.'

"This, as you may think, added a good deal to the colonel's reputation;
and when we had that affair with the Bedouins at Laghouat we soon saw
that he could fight as well as manoeuvre. In the thick of the skirmish
one of the rogues, seeing De Malet left alone, flew at him with drawn
yataghan, but the colonel just dropped on his horse's neck and let the
blow pass over him, and then gave point and ran the fellow right through
the body, as neatly as any fencing-master could have done it. You may be
sure we thought none the less of him after that; but all this was
nothing to what was coming.

"Well, De Malet had been with us about a year when the railway was begun
from Algiers to Blidah, and the directing engineer happened to be one of
my greatest friends, Eugène Latour, as good a fellow as I ever met. It
was quite a fête with us whenever he dined at mess, for his jokes and
good stories kept every one brisk; and then to hear him sing! _ma foi_,
it was wonderful! One minute some rattling refrain that seemed to set
the very chairs dancing, and then suddenly a low, sad air that fairly
brought the tears into your eyes. They were in mine, I know, every time
I heard him sing those last two verses of 'The Conscript's Farewell:'

  I thought to gain rich spoils--I've gained
    Of bullets half a score:
  I thought to come back corporal--
    I shall come back no more.

  Feed my poor dog, I pray thee, Rose,
    And with him gentle be:
  He'll miss his master for a while--
    Adieu! remember me![8]

"Well, as I was saying, Eugène had been put over the work, and I don't
know where they could have found a better man for it. Whether it poured
with rain or came on hot enough to cook a cutlet without fire, it was
all one to him: there he was at his post, looking after everything,
with his eyes in ten places at once. You may think that under such a
chief the laborers had no chance of idling; and everything was getting
on splendidly when one morning, as he was standing on the parapet of a
bridge, his foot slipped and down he went, I don't know how far. The
fall would have killed him outright if by good luck there hadn't
happened to be an Arab underneath (the only time that an Arab ever _was_
of any use, I should say), and Eugène, alighting upon _him_, broke his
own fall and the Bedouin's neck to boot.

"Now, if there had been nobody there to tell tales, this wouldn't have
mattered a pin, for an Arab more or less is no such great matter; but,
as ill-luck would have it, there were three or four more of the rascals
near enough to see what had happened, and of course they raised a
hue-and-cry directly. And when it was noised abroad that a Christian dog
(as they politely call us) had killed a Mussulman, you should have seen
what an uproar there was! The people came running together like vultures
when a camel drops down in the desert, and there was a yelling and
dancing and shaking of fists that made one's very head turn round. Poor
Eugène would have been torn to pieces on the spot if the guard hadn't
formed round him and defended him; and the only way we could pacify the
mob was to promise them justice from the district magistrate; so away to
the magistrate we all went.

"Now, I dare say Mr. Magistrate was a very good fellow in his way, and I
don't want to say a word against him, but still, it must be owned that
he wasn't exactly the kind of man to stand firm in the midst of a rabble
of wild Mohammedans, all howling and flourishing their knives at once
under his very nose. To tell the plain truth, he was frightened out of
his wits; and the only thing _he_ thought of was how to shift the
responsibility on to somebody else's shoulders as fast as possible. So
he said (and it was very lucky he did, as it turned out) that Latour,
being in government employ, must be tried by military law; and he
packed them all off to the commandant, who, as I've told you, was no
other than Colonel de Malet.

"It was no easy matter for the colonel to get at the facts of the case,
for all the rascals kept shrieking at once, one louder than another; but
at last, bit by bit, he managed to get a pretty clear idea of what had
happened; and then he said, very solemnly, 'A French officer does his
duty, let it be what it will. You have come here for justice, and
justice you shall have.'

"There was a great roar of triumph from the crowd, and poor Eugène
looked as blank as a thief in the Salle de la Police.

"'Before I pass sentence, however,' pursued De Malet, 'I wish to ask
this young man' (pointing to the son of the dead Arab, who was the
ringleader of all the mischief) 'whether he will accept of any
compromise.'

"'No, no!' yelled the young brigand--'life for life!'

"'So be it,' said the colonel gravely, 'and you, by Mussulman law, are
your father's destined avenger. Therefore, let the engineer be taken
back to the very spot where his victim was standing, and do you go up to
the top of the parapet and _jump down upon him_!'

