At fifteen he had taken to pieces and put together again, strengthened,
soldered, tinkered, mended, and braced every accordion, guitar,
melodeon, dulcimer, and fiddle in Edgewood, Pleasant River, and the
neighboring villages. There was a little money to be earned in this way,
but very little, as people in general regarded this "tinkering" as a
pleasing diversion in which they could indulge him without danger. As
an example of this attitude, Dr. Berry's wife's melodeon had lost two
stops, the pedals had severed connection with the rest of the works,
it wheezed like an asthmatic, and two black keys were missing. Anthony
worked more than a week on its rehabilitation, and received in return
Mrs. Berry's promise that the doctor would pull a tooth for him some
time! This, of course, was a guerdon for the future, but it seemed
pathetically distant to the lad who had never had a toothache in his
life. He had to plead with Cyse Higgins for a week before that prudent
young farmer would allow him to touch his five-dollar fiddle. He
obtained permission at last only because by offering to give Cyse his
calf in case he spoiled the violin. "That seems square," said Cyse
doubtfully, "but after all, you can't play on a calf!" "Neither will
your fiddle give milk, if you keep it long enough," retorted Tony; and
this argument was convincing.

So great was his confidence in Tony's skill that Squire Bean trusted his
father's violin to him, one that had been bought in Berlin seventy years
before. It had been hanging on the attic wall for a half century, so
that the back was split in twain, the sound-post lost, the neck and the
tailpiece cracked. The lad took it home, and studied it for two whole
evenings before the open fire. The problem of restoring it was quite
beyond his abilities. He finally took the savings of two summers'
"blueberry money" and walked sixteen miles to Portland, where he bought
a book called The Practical Violinist. The Supplement proved to be
a mine of wealth. Even the headings appealed to his imagination and
intoxicated him with their suggestions,--On Scraping, Splitting, and
Repairing Violins, Violin Players, Great Violinists, Solo Playing,
etc.; and at the very end a Treatise on the Construction, Preservation,
Repair, and Improvement of the Violin, by Jacob Augustus Friedheim,
Instrument Maker to the Court of the Archduke of Weimar.

There was a good deal of moral advice in the preface that sadly puzzled
the boy, who was always in a condition of chronic amazement at the
village disapprobation of his favorite fiddle. That the violin did not
in some way receive the confidence enjoyed by other musical instruments,
he perceived from various paragraphs written by the worthy author of The
Practical Violinist, as for example:--

"Some very excellent Christian people hold a strong prejudice against
the violin because they have always known it associated with dancing and
dissipation. Let it be understood that your violin is 'converted,' and
such an obligation will no longer lie against it. ... Many delightful
hours may be enjoyed by a young man, if he has obtained a respectable
knowledge of his instrument, who otherwise would find the time hang
heavy on his hands; or, for want of some better amusement, would
frequent the dangerous and destructive paths of vice and be ruined
forever. ... I am in hopes, therefore, my dear young pupil, that your
violin will occupy your attention at just those very times when, if you
were immoral or dissipated, you would be at the grogshop, gaming-table,
or among vicious females. Such a use of the violin, notwithstanding the
prejudices many hold against it, must contribute to virtue, and furnish
abundance of innocent and entirely unobjectionable amusement. These are
the views with which I hope you have adopted it, and will continue to
cherish and cultivate it."


II.


     "There is no bard in all the choir,
    .......
     Not one of all can put in verse,
     Or to this presence could rehearse
     The sights and voices ravishing
     The boy knew on the hills in spring,
     When pacing through the oaks he heard
     Sharp queries of the sentry-bird,
     The heavy grouse's sudden whir,
     The rattle of the kingfisher."

     Emerson's _Harp._


Now began an era of infinite happiness, of days that were never long
enough, of evenings when bedtime came all too soon. Oh that there had
been some good angel who would have taken in hand Anthony Croft the
boy, and, training the powers that pointed so unmistakably in certain
directions, given to the world the genius of Anthony Croft, potential
instrument maker to the court of St. Cecilia; for it was not only that
he had the fingers of a wizard; his ear caught the faintest breath of
harmony or hint of discord, as


     "Fairy folk a-listening
     Hear the seed sprout in the spring,
     And for music to their dance
     Hear the hedge-rows wake from trance;
     Sap that trembles into buds
     Sending little rhythmic floods
     Of fairy sound in fairy ears.
     Thus all beauty that appears
     Has birth as sound to finer sense
     And lighter-clad intelligence."


As the universe is all mechanism to one man, all form and color to
another, so to Anthony Croft the world was all melody. Notwithstanding
all these gifts and possibilities, the doctor's wife advised the Widow
Croft to make a plumber of him, intimating delicately that these freaks
of nature, while playing no apparent part in the divine economy, could
sometimes be made self-supporting.

The seventeenth year of his life marked a definite epoch in his
development. He studied Jacob Friedheim's treatise until he knew
the characteristics of all the great violin models, from the Amatis,
Hieronymus, Antonius, and Nicolas, to those of Stradivarius, Guarnerius,
and Steiner.

It was in this year, also, that he made a very precious discovery. While
browsing in the rubbish in Squire Bean's garret to see if he could find
the missing sound-post of the old violin, he came upon a billet of wood
wrapped in cloth and paper. When unwrapped, it was plainly labeled "Wood
from the Bean Maple at Pleasant Point; the biggest maple in York County,
and believed to be one of the biggest in the State of Maine." Anthony
found that the oldest inhabitant of Pleasant River remembered the stump
of the tree, and that the boys used to jump over it and admire
its proportions whenever they went fishing at the Point. The wood,
therefore, was perhaps eighty or ninety years old. The squire agreed
willingly that it should be used to mend the old violin, and told Tony
he should have what was left for himself. When, by careful calculation,
he found that the remainder would make a whole violin, he laid it
reverently away for another twenty years, so that he should be sure it
had completed its century of patient waiting for service, and falling on
his knees by his bedside said, "I thank Thee, Heavenly Father, for
this precious gift, and I promise from this moment to gather the most
beautiful wood I can find, and lay it by where it can be used some time
to make perfect violins, so that if any creature as poor and helpless as
I am needs the wherewithal to do good work, I shall have helped him as
Thou hast helped me." And according to his promise so he did, and the
pieces of richly curled maple, of sycamore, and of spruce began to
accumulate. They were cut from the sunny side of the trees, in just
the right season of the year, split so as to have a full inch thickness
towards the bark, and a quarter inch towards the heart. They were then
laid for weeks under one of the falls in Wine Brook, where the musical
tinkle, tinkle of the stream fell on the wood already wrought upon by
years of sunshine and choruses of singing birds.


This boy, toiling not alone for himself, but with full and conscious
purpose for posterity also, was he not worthy to wear the mantle of
Antonius Stradivarius?


"That plain white-aproned man who stood at work Patient and accurate
full fourscore years, Cherished his sight and touch by temperance,
And since keen sense is love of perfectness, Made perfect violins, the
needed paths For inspiration and high mastery."

And as if the year were not full enough of glory, the school-teacher
sent him a book with a wonderful poem in it.

That summer's teaching had been the freak of a college student, who had
gone back to his senior year strengthened by his experience of village
life. Anthony Croft, who was only three or four years his junior, had
been his favorite pupil and companion.

"How does Tony get along?" asked the Widow Croft when the teacher came
to call.

"Tony? Oh, I can't teach him anything."

Tears sprang to the mother's eyes.

"I know he ain't much on book learning," she said apologetically, "but
I'm bound he don't make you no trouble in deportment."

"I mean," said the school-teacher gravely, "that I can show him how to
read a little Latin and do a little geometry, but he knows as much in
one day as I shall ever know in a year."

Tony crouched by the old fireplace in the winter evenings, dropping his
knife or his compasses a moment to read aloud to his mother, who sat in
the opposite corner knitting:--


     "Of old Antonio Stradivari,--him
     Who a good quarter century and a half ago
     Put his true work in the brown instrument,
     And by the nice adjustment of its frame
     Gave it responsive life, continuous
     With the master's finger-tips, and perfected
     Like them by delicate rectitude of use."


The mother listened with painful intentness. "I like the sound of it,"
she said, "but I can't hardly say I take in the full sense."

"Why mother," said the lad, in a rare moment of self-expression, "you
know the poetry says he cherished his sight and touch by temperance;
that an idiot might see a straggling line and be content, but he had
an eye that winced at false work, and loved the true. When it says his
finger-tips were perfected by delicate rectitude of use, I think it
means doing everything as it is done in heaven, and that anybody
who wants to make a perfect violin must keep his eye open to all the
beautiful things God has made, and his ear open to all the music he has
put into the world, and then never let his hands touch a piece of work
that is crooked or straggling or false, till, after years and years of
rightness, they are fit to make a violin like the squire's, a violin
that can say everything, a violin that an angel wouldn't be ashamed to
play on."

Do these words seem likely ones to fall from the lips of a lad who had
been at the tail of his class ever since his primer days? Well,
Anthony was seventeen now, and he was "educated," in spite of sorry
recitations,--educated, the Lord knows how! Yes, in point of fact the
Lord does know how! He knows how the drill and pressure of the daily
task, still more the presence of the high ideal, the inspiration working
from within, how these educate us.

The blind Anthony Croft sitting in the kitchen doorway had seemingly
missed the heights of life he might have trod, and had walked his close
on fifty years through level meadows of mediocrity, a witch in every
finger-tip waiting to be set to work, head among the clouds, feet
stumbling, eyes and ears open to hear God's secret thought; seeing and
hearing it, too, but lacking force to speak it forth again; for while
imperious genius surmounts all obstacles, brushes laws and formulas from
its horizon, and with its own free soul sees its "path and the outlets
of the sky," potential genius forever needs an angel of deliverance to
set it free.

Poor Anthony Croft, or blessed Anthony Croft, I know not which,--God
knows! Poor he certainly was, yet blessed after all. "One thing I do,"
said Paul. "One thing I do," said Anthony. He was not able to realize
his ideals, but he had the "angel aim" by which he idealized his reals.

O waiting heart of God! how soon would thy kingdom come if we all did
our allotted tasks, humble or splendid, in this consecrated fashion!


III.


     "Therein I hear the Parcae reel
     The threads of man at their humming wheel,
     The threads of life and power and pain,
     So sweet and mournful falls the strain."

     Emerson's _Harp._


Old Mrs. Butterfield had had her third stroke of paralysis, and died
of a Sunday night. She was all alone in her little cottage on the river
bank, with no neighbor nearer than Croft's, and nobody there but a blind
man and a small boy. Everybody had told her it was foolish to live alone
in a house on the river road, and everybody was pleased in a discreet
and chastened fashion of course, that it had turned out exactly as they
had predicted.

Aunt Mehitable Tarbox was walking up to Milliken's Mills, with her
little black reticule hanging over her arm, and noticing that there
was no smoke coming out of the chimney, and that the hens were gathered
about the kitchen door clamoring for their breakfast, she thought it
best to stop and knock. No response followed the repeated blows from
her hard knuckles. She then tapped smartly on Mrs. Butterfield's bedroom
window with her thimble finger. This proving of no avail, she was
obliged to pry open the kitchen shutter, split open a mosquito netting
with her shears, and crawl into the house over the sink. This was a
considerable feat for a somewhat rheumatic elderly lady, but this one
never grudged trouble when she wanted to find out anything.

When she discovered that her premonitions were correct, and that
old Mrs. Butterfield was indeed dead, her grief at losing a pleasant
acquaintance was largely mitigated by her sense of importance at being
first on the spot, and chosen by Providence to take command of the
situation. There were no relations in the village; there was no woman
neighbor within a mile: it was therefore her obvious Christian duty not
only to take charge of the remains, but to conduct such a funeral as the
remains would have wished for herself.

The fortunate Vice-President suddenly called upon by destiny to guide
the ship of state, the general who sees a possible Victoria Cross in
a hazardous engagement, can have a faint conception of aunt Hitty's
feeling on this momentous occasion. Funerals were the very breath of her
life. There was no ceremony, either of public or private import, that,
to her mind, approached a funeral in real satisfying interest. Yet,
with distinct talent in this direction, she had always been "cabined,
cribbed, confined" within hopeless limitations. She had assisted in a
secondary capacity at funerals in the families of other people, but she
would have reveled in personally conducted ones. The members of her own
family stubbornly refused to die, however, even the distant connections
living on and on to a ridiculous old age; and if they ever did die, by
reason of a falling roof, shipwreck, or conflagration, they generally
died in Texas or Iowa, or some remote State where aunt Hitty could not
follow the hearse in the first carriage. This blighted ambition was a
heart sorrow of so deep and sacred a character that she did not even
confess it to "Si," as her appendage of a husband was called.

Now at last her chance for planning a funeral had come. Mrs. Butterfield
had no kith or kin save her niece, Lyddy Ann, who lived in Andover,
or Lawrence, or Haverhill Massachusetts,--aunt Hitty couldn't remember
which, and hoped nobody else could. The niece would be sent for when
they found out where she lived; meanwhile the funeral could not be put
off.

She glanced round the house preparatory to locking it up and starting
to notify Anthony Croft. She would just run over and talk to him about
ordering the coffin; then she could attend to all other necessary
preliminaries herself. The remains had been well-to-do, and there was no
occasion for sordid economy, so aunt Hitty determined in her own mind to
have the latest fashion in everything, including a silver coffin plate.
The Butterfield coffin plates were a thing to be proud of. They had
been sacredly preserved for years and years, and the entire
collection--numbering nineteen in all had been framed, and adorned the
walls of the deceased lady's best room. They were not of solid silver,
it is true, but even so it was a matter of distinction to have belonged
to a family that could afford to have nineteen coffin plates of any
sort.

Aunt Hitty planned certain dramatic details as she walked town the road
to Croft's. It came to her in a burst of inspiration that she would have
two ministers: one for the long prayer, and one for the short prayer and
the remarks. She hoped that Elder Weeks would be adequate in the latter
direction. She knew she couldn't for the life of her think of anything
interesting about Mrs. Butterfield, save that she possessed nineteen
coffin plates, and brought her hens to Edgewood every summer for their
health; but she had heard Elder Weeks make a moving discourse out of
less than that. To be sure, he needed priming, but she was equal to
that. There was Ivory Brown's funeral: how would that have gone on if it
hadn't been for her? Wasn't the elder ten minutes late, and what would
his remarks have amounted to without her suggestions? You might almost
say she was the author of the discourse, for she gave him all the
appropriate ideas. As she had helped him out of the wagon she had said:
"Are you prepared? I thought not; but there's no time to lose. Remember
there are aged parents; two brothers living, one railroading in Spokane
Falls, the other clerking in Washington, D. C. Don't mention the
Universalists,--there's ben two in the fam'ly; nor insanity,--there 's
ben one o' them. The girl in the corner by the clock is the one that
the remains has been keeping comp'ny with. If you can make some genteel
allusions to her, it'll be much appreciated by his folks."

As to the long prayer, she knew that the Rev. Mr. Ford could be relied
on to pray until aunt Becky Burnham should twitch him by the coat tails.
She had done it more than once. She had also, on one occasion, got up
and straightened his ministerial neckerchief, which he had gradually
"prayed" around his saintly neck until it was behind the right ear.

These plans proved so fascinating to aunt Hitty that she walked quite
half a mile beyond Croft's, and was obliged to retrace her steps.
She conceived bands of black alpaca for the sleeves and hats of the
pallbearers, and a festoon of the same over the front gate, if there
should be any left over. She planned the singing by the choir. There
had been no real choir-singing at any funeral in Edgewood since the Rev.
Joshua Beckwith had died. She would ask them to open with--

     Rebel mourner, cease your weepin'.
     You too must die.

This was a favorite funeral hymn. The only difficulty would be in
keeping aunt Becky Burnham from pitching it in a key where nobody but a
soprano skylark, accustomed to warble at a great height, could
possibly sing it. It was generally given at the grave, when Elder Weeks
officiated; but it never satisfied aunt Hitty, because the good elder
always looked so unpicturesque when he threw a red bandanna handkerchief
over his head before beginning the twenty-seven verses. After the long
prayer, she would have Almira Berry give for a solo--

     This gro-o-oanin' world 's too dark and
     dre-e-ar for the saints' e - ter - nal rest,

This hymn, if it did not wholly reconcile one to death, enabled one to
look upon life with sufficient solemnity. It was a thousand pities, she
thought, that the old hearse was so shabby and rickety, and that Gooly
Eldridge, who drove it, would insist on wearing a faded peach-blow
overcoat. It was exasperating to think of the public spirit at Egypt,
and contrast it with the state of things at Pleasant River. In Egypt
they had sold the old hearse house for a sausage shop, and now they were
having hearse sociables every month to raise money for a new one.

All these details flew through aunt Hitty's mind in fascinating
procession. There shouldn't be "a hitch" anywhere. There had been a
hitch at her last funeral, but she had been only an assistant there.
Matt Henderson had been struck by lightning at the foot of Squire Bean's
old nooning tree, and certain circumstances combined to make the funeral
one of unusual interest, so much so that fat old Mrs. Potter from
Deerwander created a sensation at the cemetery. She was so anxious
to get where she could see everything to the best advantage that she
crowded too near the bier, stepped on the sliding earth, and pitched
into the grave. As she weighed over two hundred pounds, and was in a
position of some disadvantage, it took five men to extricate her from
the dilemma, and the operation made a long and somewhat awkward break in
the religious services. Aunt Hitty always said of this catastrophe,
"If I'd 'a' ben Mis' Potter, I'd 'a' ben so mortified I believe I'd 'a'
said, 'I wa'n't plannin' to be buried, but now I'm in here I declare
I'll stop!'"

Old Mrs. Butterfield's funeral was not only voted an entire success by
the villagers, but the seal of professional approval was set upon it
by an undertaker from Saco, who declared that Mrs. Tarbox could make
a handsome living in the funeral line anywhere. Providence, who always
assists those who assist themselves, decreed that the niece Lyddy Ann
should not arrive until the aunt was safely buried; so, there being
none to resist her right or grudge her the privilege aunt Hitty, for the
first time in her life, rode in the next buggy to the hearse. Si, in his
best suit, a broad weed and weepers, drove Cyse Higgins's black colt,
and aunt Hitty was dressed in deep mourning, with the Widow Buzzell's
crape veil over her face, and in her hand a palmleaf fan tied with a
black ribbon. Her comment to Si, as she went to her virtuous couch that
night, was: "It was an awful dry funeral, but that was the only flaw in
it. It would 'a' ben perfect if there' ben anybody to shed tears. I
come pretty nigh it myself, though I ain't no relation, when Elder Weeks
said, 'You'll go round the house, my sisters, and Mis' Butterfield won't
be there; you'll go int' the orchard, and Mis' Butterfield won't be
there; you'll go int' the barn and Mis' Butterfield won't be there;
you'll go int' the shed, and Mis' Butterfield won't be there; you'll go
int' the hencoop, and Mis' Butterfield won't be there!' That would 'a'
drawed tears from a stone most, 'specially sence Mis' Butterfield set
such store by her hens."

And this is the way that Lyddy Butterfield came into her kingdom, a
little lone brown house on the river's brim. She had seen it only once
before when she had driven out from Portland, years ago, with her aunt.
Mrs. Butterfield lived in Portland, but spent her summers in Edgewood
on account of her chickens. She always explained that the country was
dreadful dull for her, but good for the hens; they always laid so much
better in the winter time.

Lyddy liked the place all the better for its loneliness. She had never
had enough of solitude, and this quiet home, with the song of the
river for company, if one needed more company than chickens and a cat,
satisfied all her desires, particularly as it was accompanied by a snug
little income of two hundred dollars a year, a meagre sum that seemed to
open up mysterious avenues of joy to her starved, impatient heart.

When she was a mere infant, her brother was holding her on his knee
before the great old-fashioned fireplace heaped with burning logs.
A sudden noise startled him, and the crowing, restless baby gave an
unexpected lurch, and slipped, face downward, into the glowing embers.
It was a full minute before the horror-stricken boy could extricate the
little creature from the cruel flame that had already done its fatal
work. The baby escaped with her life, but was disfigured forever. As
she grew older, the gentle hand of time could not entirely efface the
terrible scars. One cheek was wrinkled and crimson, while one eye and
the mouth were drawn down pathetically. The accident might have changed
the disposition of any child, but Lyddy chanced to be a sensitive,
introspective bit of feminine humanity, in whose memory the burning
flame was never quenched. Her mother, partly to conceal her own wounded
vanity, and partly to shield the timid, morbid child, kept her out of
sight as much as possible; so that at sixteen, when she was left an
orphan, she had lived almost entirely in solitude.

She became, in course of time, a kind of general nursery governess in a
large family of motherless children. The father was almost always away
from home; his sister kept the house, and Lyddy stayed in the nursery,
bathing the brood and putting them to bed, dressing them in the morning,
and playing with them in the safe privacy of the back garden or the open
attic. They loved her, disfigured as she was, for the child despises
mere externals, and explores the heart of things to see whether it be
good or evil,--but they could never induce her to see strangers, nor to
join any gathering of people.

The children were grown and married now, and Lyddy was nearly forty when
she came into possession of house and lands and fortune; forty, with
twenty years of unexpended feeling pent within her. Forty, that is
rather old to be interesting, but age is a relative matter. Haven't you
seen girls of four-and-twenty who have nibbled and been nibbled at ever
since they were sixteen, but who have neither caught anything nor been
caught? They are old, if you like, but Lyddy was forty and still young,
with her susceptibilities cherished, not dulled, and with all the
"language of passion fresh and rooted as the lovely leafage about a
spring."


IV.


     "He shall daily joy dispense
     Hid in song's sweet influence."

     Emerson's _Merlin._


Lyddy had very few callers during her first month as a property owner
in Edgewood. Her appearance would have been against her winning friends
easily in any case, even if she had not acquired the habits of a
recluse. It took a certain amount of time, too, for the community to get
used to the fact that old Mrs. Butterfield was dead, and her niece
Lyddy Ann living in the cottage on the river road. There were numbers
of people who had not yet heard that old Mrs. Butterfield had bought the
house from the Thatcher boys, and that was fifteen years ago; but this
was not strange, for, notwithstanding aunt Hitty's valuable services in
disseminating general information, there was a man living on the Bonny
Eagle road who was surprised to hear that Daniel Webster was dead, and
complained that folks were not so long-lived as they used to be.

Aunt Hitty thought Lyddy a Goth and a Vandal because she took down
the twenty silver coffin plates and laid them reverently away. "Mis'
Butterfield would turn in her grave," she said, "if she knew it. She
ain't much of a housekeeper, I guess," she went on, as she cut over
Dr. Berry's old trousers into briefer ones for Tommy Berry. "She gives
considerable stuff to her hens that she'd a sight better heat over and
eat herself, in these hard times when the missionary societies can't
hardly keep the heathen fed and clothed and warmed--no, I don't mean
warmed, for most o' the heathens live in hot climates, somehow or
'nother. My back door's jest opposite hers; it's across the river, to
be sure, but it's the narrer part, and I can see everything she does as
plain as daylight. She washed a Monday, and she ain't taken her clothes
in yet, and it's Thursday. She may be bleachin' of 'em out, but it
looks slack. I said to Si last night I should stand it till 'bout
Friday,--seein' 'em lay on the grass there, but if she didn't take 'em
in then, I should go over and offer to help her. She has a fire in the
settin'-room 'most every night, though we ain't had a frost yet; and
as near's I can make out, she's got full red curtains hangin' up to her
windows. I ain't sure, for she don't open the blinds in that room till
I get away in the morning, and she shuts 'em before I get back at night.
Si don't know red from green, so he's useless in such matters. I'm going
home late to-night, and walk down on that side o' the river, so't I can
call in after dark and see what makes her house light up as if the sun
was settin' inside of it."

As a matter of fact, Lyddy was reveling in house-furnishing of a humble
sort. She had a passion for color. There was a red-and-white straw
matting on the sitting-room floor. Reckless in the certain possession
of twenty dollars a month, she purchased yards upon yards of turkey red
cotton; enough to cover a mattress for the high-backed settle, for long
curtains at the windows, and for cushions to the rockers. She knotted
white fringes for the table covers and curtains, painted the inside
of the fireplace red, put some pots, of scarlet geraniums on the
window-sills, filled newspaper rack with ferns and tacked it over an
ugly spot in the wall, edged her work-basket with a tufted trimming of
scarlet worsted, and made an elaborate photograph case of white crash
and red cotton that stretched the entire length of the old-fashioned
mantelshelf, and held pictures of Mr. Reynolds, Miss Elvira Reynolds,
George, Susy, Anna, John, Hazel, Ella, and Rufus Reynolds, her former
charges. When all this was done, she lighted a little blaze on the
hearth, took the red curtains from their hands, let them fall gracefully
to the floor, and sat down in her rocking-chair, reconciled to her
existence for absolutely the first time in her forty years.

I hope Mrs. Butterfield was happy enough in Paradise to appreciate and
feel Lyddy's joy. I can even believe she was glad to have died, since
her dying could bring such content to any wretched living human soul.
As Lydia sat in the firelight, the left side of her poor face in shadow,
you saw that she was distinctly harmonious. Her figure, clad in plain
black-and-white calico dress, was a graceful, womanly one. She had
beautifully sloping shoulders and a sweet wrist. Her hair was soft
and plentiful, and her hands were fine, strong, and sensitive. This
possibility of rare beauty made her scars and burns more pitiful, for
if a cheap chrome has smirch across its face, we think it a matter of no
moment, but we deplore the smallest scratch or blur on any work of real
art.

Lydia felt a little less bitter and hopeless about life when she sat in
front of her own open fire, after her usual twilight walk. It was her
habit to wander down the wooded road after her simple five-o'clock
supper, gatherings ferns or goldenrod or frost flowers for her vases;
and one night she heard, above the rippling of the river, the strange,
sweet, piercing sound of Anthony Croft's violin.

She drew nearer, and saw a middle-aged man sitting in the kitchen
doorway, with a lad of ten or twelve years leaning against his knees.
She could tell little of his appearance, save that he had a high
forehead, and hair that waved well back from it in rather an unusual
fashion. He was in his shirt-sleeves, but the gingham was scrupulously
clean, and he had the uncommon refinement of a collar and necktie. Out
of sight herself, Lyddy drew near enough to hear; and this she did every
night without recognizing that the musician was blind. The music had
a curious effect upon her. It was a hitherto unknown influence in her
life, and it interpreted her, so to speak, to herself. As she sat on
the bed of brown pine needles, under a friendly tree, her head resting
against its trunk, her eyes half closed, the tone of Anthony's violin
came like a heavenly message to a tired, despairing soul. Remember that
in her secluded life she had heard only such harmony as Elvira Reynolds
evoked from her piano or George Reynolds from his flute, and the
Reynolds temperament was distinctly inartistic.

Lyddy lived through a lifetime of emotion in these twilight concerts.
Sometimes she was filled with an exquisite melancholy from which there
was no escape; at others, the ethereal purity of the strain stirred her
heart with a strange, sweet vision of mysterious joy; joy that she had
never possessed, would never possess; joy whose bare existence she never
before realized. When the low notes sank lower and lower with their soft
wail of delicious woe, she bent forward into the dark, dreading that
something would be lost in the very struggle of listening; then, after
a, pause, a pure human tone would break the stillness, and soaring,
bird-like, higher and higher, seem to mount to heaven itself, and,
"piercing its starry floors," lift poor scarred Lydia's soul to the very
grates of infinite bliss. In the gentle moods that stole upon her in
those summer twilights she became a different woman, softer in her
prosperity than she had ever been in her adversity; for some plants only
blossom in sunshine. What wonder if to her the music and the musician
became one? It is sometimes a dangerous thing to fuse the man and his
talents in this way; but it did no harm here, for Anthony Croft was his
music, and the music was Anthony Croft. When he played on his violin,
it was as if the miracle of its fashioning were again enacted; as if the
bird on the quivering bough, the mellow sunshine streaming through the
lattice of green leaves, the tinkle of the woodland stream, spoke in
every tone; and more than this, the hearth-glow in whose light the
patient hands had worked, the breath of the soul bending itself in
passionate prayer for perfection, these, too, seemed to have wrought
their blessed influence on the willing strings until the tone was laden
with spiritual harmony. One might indeed have sung of this little red
violin--that looked to Lyddy, in the sunset glow, as if it were veneered
with rubies--all that Shelley sang of another perfect instrument:--


     "The artist who this viol wrought
     To echo all harmonious thought,
     Fell'd a tree, while on the steep
     The woods were in their winter sleep,
     Rock'd in that repose divine
     Of the wind-swept Apennine;
     And dreaming, some of Autumn past,
     And some of Spring approaching fast,
     And some of April buds and showers,
     And some of songs in July bowers,
     And all of love; and so this tree--
     O that such our death may be!--
     Died in sleep, and felt no pain,
     To live in happier form again."

The viol "whispers in enamoured tone:"--

