LEARNED BY ART.--"Beasts in Bond Street!" "Sheep in the Salon!"
Messrs. DOWDESWELLS have taken the wind out of the sails of the
Agricultural Hall, and Mr. DENOVAN ADAM has given us the opportunity
of seeing a superb collection of Scottish Highland Cattle. Mountain,
meadow, moss and moor have all been laid under contribution. The
result is we can have the chance of studying these hornymental animals
without being tossed, and staring at them without being gored. In
the same gallery may be seen a series of pastels of Hampstead Heath,
by Mr. HENRY MUHRMAN--a merman ought to be a sea-painter by rights,
but no matter! The poet has told us that, "'Amsted am the place to
ruralise on a summer's day!" The artist convinces us it is the place
to "pastelise," and he seems to have pastelised to the tune of forty
pictures very successfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE LORD MAYOR'S SHOW OF THE FUTURE.

[In consequence of AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS becoming Sheriff, it is
expected that additional lustre will be given to a future Mayoralty by
the leading Members of "THE Profession" taking to Civic Life.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: 'ARRY IN ST. PETERSBURGH.

HE TRIES TO MAKE A DROSKI-DRIVER UNDERSTAND THAT HE COULD HAVE GONE
THE SAME DISTANCE IN A HANSOM FOR LESS MONEY.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PARS ABOUT PICTURES.

_PAR CI--PAR LA!_

"A good par here, and a bad par there; here a par, and there a par,
and everywhere a par!" Indeed, as an Irishman would say, it is
the Judgment of Pars. Let us look in at the Institute, and see the
Painters in Ile, and no doubt we shall be iley delighted. We go on the
pre-private view day. Not that we are parsimonious, but we prefer to
see the pictures without being scrouged.

[Illustration: "PLEASE TO REMEMBER THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER."

Hoisted with his own Petar--Guy Fawkes blown up.]

"_The Release_" is a puzzler. We have taken stock of Mr. STOCK's
picture, and fail to understand it. Is it LULU or ZAZEL? There seems
to have been an explosion, and one person, lightly attired, is blown
up; and another, more warmly clad, is blown down. They will both
probably catch cold. Nothing hazy about Mr. HAYES's pictures. On the
contrary, fresh and brilliant--notably, "_A Grey Sunset._" If you are
subject to _mal-de-mer_, his seas will make you onaisy. The President,
Sir JAMES LINTON, has only two small pictures, both cleverly painted,
but each may be described as a little LINTON; so let us give him a
little hint on the subject; like OLIVER TWIST, we ask for more. "_Too
Many Cooks_," by BURTON BARBER--a Barber who knows how to dress hair.
See the dogs' coats. Miss ETHEL WRIGHT is not very far wrong in her
picture of a fair _canoiste_, and Mr. W.L. WYLLIE is both artful and
wily in his rendering of a "_A Sou' Wester_." "_An Old Harbour in
Sussex_" gives distinct evidence that LEWIS (C.J.) has been moved to
the coast, and it seems to be a move in the right direction. In "_The
Red Canoe_," Mr. ALFRED PARSONS delivers an eloquent sermon on the
joys of life on the Thames.

The Royal Society of British Artists have fewer pictures than usual
at their new show. Quality better than common. Mr. F. BRANGWYN's
"_Funeral at Sea_" is excellent. Mr. R. MACHELL's "_Lakshmi_," not
easy to understand. It might be "Lakshmi, or the Lost Bathing-dress."
She might certainly say, "I lacks my _costume de bain_."
"_Durham_"--good landscape by Mr. YGLESIAS. Mr. NELSON DAWSON in his
"_Sunset Breeze_," gives us real sea and good seamanship. In "_Trying
it Over_," Mr. LOMAX has tried it over to some purpose, and has
produced a successful little picture of an enthusiastic flautist. Mr.
G.F. WATTS sends "_Lord Tennyson_." But why in ermine? The Laureate is
quite good enough for us without his Peer's robes. What did HARRY THE
EIGHTH say concerning HOLBEIN? Anything more to see? Of course there
is. But what is my text? "Pars about Pictures." And so I pass about.
_I_ mustn't linger, but remain

Yours par-ticularly,

OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLF VICTOR!

  Sir Golf and Sir Tennis are fighting like mad--
    Now Sir Tennis is blown, and Sir Golf's right above him,
  And his face has a look that is weary and sad,
    As he hastily turns to the ladies, who love him,
  But the racket falls from him, he totters, and swirls,
  As he hears them cry, "Golf is the game for the girls!"

         *       *       *       *       *

  The girls crave for freedom, they cannot endure
    To be cramped up at Tennis in courts that are poky,
  And they're all of them certainly, perfectly sure
    That they'll never again touch "that horrible Croquet,"
  Where it's quite on the cards that they play with Papa,
  And where all that goes on is surveyed by Mamma.

  To Golf on the downs for the whole of the day
    Is "so awfully jolly," they keep on asserting,
  With a good-looking fellow to teach you the way,
    And to fill up the time with some innocent flirting,
  And it may be the maiden is wooed and is won,
  Ere the whole of the round is completed and done.

  Henceforward, then, Golf is the game for the fair--
    At home, and abroad, or in pastures Colonial,
  And the shouts of the ladies will quite fill the air
    For the Links that will turn into bonds Matrimonial,
  And for husbands our daughters in future will seek
  With the powerful aid of the putter and cleek!

       *       *       *       *       *

CORRESPONDENCE SPECIAL.--KNOODEL, of Knoodel Court, writes to
us:--"Sir,--I have recently come across the name 'bacteriologist.'
Is it a new name for a person who writes ill of another behind his
back? If so, the best remedy for the mischief he causes is a criminal
action." [Our advice to KNOODEL is, "Consult a Solicitor."--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"CARMEN UP TO DATE AT THE GAIETY."--"Approbation of Miss ALMA STANLEY
is praise indeed." The correct quotation adapted _à la fin du Siècle_.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: IN OUR GARDEN.]

_Tuesday Morning_.--Still in Edinburgh, but going home to-night. Just
received telegram from Member for SARK. "Come home at once," he says;
"the _Peronospora Schleideniana_ has got at the onions."

Rather a shock to have news like this flashed upon one with that
absence of deliberation that sometimes marks the telegraph service.
But I cannot say I am surprised. I had, indeed, before leaving, called
SARK's attention to what I recognised as the greyish mycelial threads
of the fungus spreading upon the pipes and budding seed-heads. If SARK
had steeped the seed in sulphate of copper before planting it, this
wouldn't have happened. It's a pity, for I rather thought we would
make something towards expenses out of that onion-bed. There's no more
profitable crop than your pickling onions if well farmed. I know a man
who made £150 an acre out of his onions. But then he wasn't hampered
in his arrangements with a fellow like SARK.

Called on Mr. G. to say good-bye. He was sympathetic about the onion
blight, but I could see that his mind was occupied with other and
perhaps equally saddening thoughts.

"I suppose you have been made aware of the intelligence that has
reached me through the usual sources?" he said. "I have had a pretty
good time here. I have belaboured the Government from all points
of attack. I think I managed pretty well with the Disestablishment
Question. You don't think, TOBY," he said, with a passing look of
deeper apprehension, "that I gave myself away at all on the matter?
The worst of these fellows is that they keep a record of every word
I say, a custom which seriously hampers one in his movements. What I
should like, if it were permitted, would be to come quite fresh to a
question year after year, and say upon it exactly what happened to be
convenient, without having before my eyes the certainty that somebody
would dig out what I said on the same subject last year, or five years
ago."

I assured him that I thought not much could be made out of his remarks
on Disestablishment Question. In fact it would be difficult to prove
that he had said anything at all. Brightened up at this; but cloud
again deepened over his mobile face.

"Yes, perhaps I've done pretty well," he said, with a sigh. "I have
steered through a very difficult position without running ashore;
I have had an immense popular reception; I have stirred up the
constituency, and have, if I may say so, supplied with fresh oil the
sacred lamp of Liberalism. Now, just when I was beginning in some
modest measure to felicitate myself, there comes news of a crushing
master-stroke devised by the Government. Though I do not disguise my
discomfiture, I would not withhold my tribute of admiration at the
brilliancy of the stroke, of the genius of its conception, and of the
completeness with which it has been dealt. I have been here more than
a week, and have delivered four speeches. The Government and their
friends on the platform and in the press affect to sneer at my efforts
and their influence. Still, they feel it is necessary to make a
counter-demonstration, and to effectually undo whatever work I may
have accomplished. What course do they adopt? Why, they send down
ASHMEAD-BARTLETT. He was at Dalkeith last night, and, in a single
speech, destroyed the effect of my great effort of Saturday. He will
go to West Calder; he will come here; he will follow me step by step
with relentless energy, tearing up, so to speak, the rails I have
laid, and which I had hoped would have safely conducted the Liberal
train into the Westminster station. _Sic vos non vobis_. It is cruel,
it is crushing. If I had only foreseen it, I would have remained at
Hawarden, and you might have averted the calamity that overshadows
your Garden."

Quite distressed to see my venerated friend broken down. Bad for him
to stop at home and brood over calamity. Best thing would be change of
scene and thought. He had made engagement to-day to go to Pumpherston
and inspect oil and candle works. Better keep it.

"No," said Mr. G., wearily, "oil comforts me not, nor candles either.
Now, if it were pork, it would be different. Few things so interesting
as pork. Not from a dietetic point of view, but regarded historically.
As I mentioned to a Correspondent the other day, in the course of
Homeric work I have examined into the use of pork by the ancients.
A very curious subject. I shall make some references to it in
the closing paper which I am writing for _Good Words_ on the Old
Testament. I am under the impression that the dangers which lurk
beneath the integument of a leg (or sirloin) of pork, are specially
connected with the heat of Southern climates."

Curious to see how rapidly his aspect changed as these thoughts
pressed upon his mind. When I came in, he had been sitting in an
arm-chair, with his head resting on his hand, and his brow painfully
wrinkled. He looked quite old--at least seventy. Now he was up,
walking about the room with springy stride, his mind actively engaged
in framing theories on the use of pork by HOMER's contemporaries.
If I could only keep him engaged, he would forget the blow that had
descended upon him, and would regain his usual equanimity. A question
as to whether he thought Achilles liked sage with his pork, cunningly
led him on to a long disquisition, till, in a quarter of an hour,
he was quite a changed man, and set out with great energy for
Pumpherston.

