Produced by Ron Swanson


EVERYMAN'S LIBRARY
EDITED BY ERNEST RHYS

CLASSICAL

THE AENEID OF VIRGIL

THE SAGES OF OLD LIVE AGAIN IN US.
                             GLANVILL


The AENEID OF VIRGIL

TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH VERSE BY
E. FAIRFAX TAYLOR


LONDON: PUBLISHED by J. M. DENT & SONS LTD.
AND IN NEW YORK BY E. P. DUTTON & CO.


_First issue of this Edition 1907._
_Reprinted 1910._


INTRODUCTION


Virgil--Publius Vergilius Maro--was born at Andes near Mantua, in
the year 70 B.C. His life was uneventful, though he lived in stirring
times, and he passed by far the greater part of it in reading his
books and writing his poems, undisturbed by the fierce civil strife
which continued to rage throughout the Roman Empire, until Octavian,
who afterwards became the Emperor Augustus, defeated Antony at the
battle of Actium. Though his father was a man of humble origin, Virgil
received an excellent education, first at Cremona and Milan, and
afterwards at Rome. He was intimate with all the distinguished men
of his time, and a personal friend of the Emperor. After the
publication of his second work, the _Georgics_, he was recognized
as being the greatest poet of his age, and the most striking figure
in the brilliant circle of literary men, which was centred at the
Court. He died at Brindisi in the spring of 19 B.C. whilst returning
from a journey to Greece, leaving his greatest work, the _Aeneid_,
written but unrevised. It was published by his executors, and
immediately took its place as the great national Epic of the Roman
people. Virgil seems to have been a man of simple, pure, and loveable
character, and the references to him in the works of Horace clearly
show the affection with which he was regarded by his friends.

Like every cultivated Roman of that age, Virgil was a close student
of the literature and philosophy of the Greeks, and his poems bear
eloquent testimony to the profound impression made upon him by his
reading of the Greek poets. His first important work, the _Eclogues_,
was directly inspired by the pastoral poems of Theocritus, from whom
he borrowed not only much of his imagery but even whole lines; in
the _Georgics_ he took as his model the _Works and Days_ of Hesiod,
and though in the former case it must be confessed that he suffers
from the weakness inherent in all imitative poetry, in the latter
he far surpasses the slow and simple verses of the Boeotian. But here
we must guard ourselves against a misapprehension. We moderns look
askance at the writer who borrows without acknowledgment the
thoughts and phrases of his forerunners, but the Roman critics of
the Augustan Age looked at the matter from a different point of view.
They regarded the Greeks as having set the standard of the highest
possible achievement in literature, and believed that it should be
the aim of every writer to be faithful, not only to the spirit, but
even to the letter of their great exemplars. Hence it was only natural
that when Virgil essayed the task of writing the national Epic of
his country, he should be studious to embody in his work all that
was best in Greek Epic poetry.

