Peace being established, the sisters took an affectionate leave,
and Mazin, with his family, departed for the residence of Abd al
Sulleeb, which they speedily reached with the assistance of the
genii, and the directing ball. The old man received him kindly,
and inquired his adventures, when he related them to him; at
which he was surprised, especially at the account of the cap, the
drum, and the ball; of which last Mazin begged his acceptance,
being now near home, and having no farther occasion for its use.
Abd al Sulleeb was much pleased, and entertained him
magnificently for three days, when Mazin wishing to depart, the
old man presented him with rich gifts, and dismissed him.

Mazin was continuing his route, when suddenly a band of a hundred
banditti appeared, resolved to plunder and put him and his
companions to death, with which design they kept advancing. Mazin
called out to them, "Brother Arabs, let the covenant of God be
between you and me, keep at a distance from me." When they heard
this they increased their insolence, surrounded him, and supposed
they should easily seize all that he had; but especially when
they beheld his wife, and the beauty she was endowed with, they
said one to another, "Let us put him to death, and not suffer him
to live." Each man resolved within himself, saying, "I will seize
this damsel, and not take the plunder."

When Mazin saw that they were bent upon attacking him, to seize
his wife and plunder his effects, he took out his drum and beat
upon it in a slight manner, when, behold! ten genii appeared
before him, requiring his commands. He replied, "I wish the
dispersion of yonder horsemen;" upon which one of the ten
advanced among the hundred banditti, and uttered such a
tremendous yell as made the mountains reverberate the sound.
Immediately as he sent forth the yell, the banditti, in alarm,
dispersed themselves among the rocks, when such as fell from
their horses' backs fled on foot; so that they lost their
reputation, and were ridiculed among the chiefs of the Abbasside
tribes. Mazin now pursued his journey, and did not halt till he
had reached the abode of Abd al Kuddoos, who advanced to meet him
and saluted him, but was astonished when he beheld his company,
and the wealth he had obtained. Mazin related what had befallen
him, of dangers, and hunger, and thirst; his safe arrival in the
islands of Waak al Waak; the deliverance of his wife from prison,
and the defeat of the army sent to oppose his return. He
mentioned also the reconciliation between the sisters of his
wife, and whatever had happened to him from first to last.

Abd al Kuddoos was greatly astonished at these adventures, and
said to Mazin of Bussorah, "Truly, my son, these events are most
surprising, and can have never occurred to any but thyself."
Mazin remained three days to repose himself, and was treated with
hospitality and respect until the fourth, when he resolved to
continue his journey, and took leave. He proceeded towards his
own country, and did not halt on the way till he arrived with the
seven sisters, the owners of the palace, who had so much
befriended him.

When Mazin of Bussorah arrived near the palace of the seven
sisters, they came out to meet him, saluted him and his wife, and
conducted them within; but they were astonished at his return,
and at first could scarcely believe his success, wondering that
he had not perished on the road, or been torn in pieces by the
wild beasts of the desert; for they had regarded it as impossible
that he should ever reach the islands of Waak al Waak.

When they were seated, they requested him to relate to them all
that had befallen him, which he did from first to last, and they
were more than ever astonished at his uncommon adventures. After
this they introduced a collation, and spread the cloth, when they
ate till they were satisfied, and then wrote a letter and
dispatched it to the mother of Mazin, congratulating her on the
health of her son, and his safe return with his wife and
children.

Mazin remained with the ladies a month, enjoying himself in
feasting and amusements, after which he begged permission to
depart to his own country, for his heart was anxious for his
mother. They dismissed him, and he travelled unceasingly till he
arrived at Bussorah. He entered the city at sunset, and proceeded
to his own house, when his mother came out, saluted him, and
embraced him. She had erected her tomb in the court of her house,
and had wept night and day till she became blind, but when the
letter arrived from the sisters, from the rapture of joy her
sight returned unto her again. She beheld the children of her
son, embraced them, and that night was to her as an eed or
festival.

When God had caused the morning to dawn, the chief personages of
Bussorah visited Mazin to congratulate him on his return, and the
principal ladies came to his mother, and rejoiced with her on the
safety of her son. At length intelligence of it reached the
caliph Haroon al Rusheed, who sent for Mazin to his presence.
Having entered the audience chamber, he made the usual obeisance,
when the caliph returned his salute, and commanded him to sit.
When he was seated, the caliph demanded that he should relate the
whole of what had befallen him, to which he answered, "To hear is
to obey."

Mazin then recited his adventures from the time the fire-worshipper
who had stolen him from his mother by his stratagems, the mode of his
coming to the palace of the seven ladies, the manner in which he
obtained his wife, her flight from the palace of the empress Zobeide,
his journey to the islands of Waak al Waak, also the dangers and
difficulties he had encountered from first to last. The caliph was
astonished, and said, "The substance of these adventures must not be
lost or concealed, but shall be recorded in writing." He then
commanded an amanuensis to attend, and seated Mazin of Bussorah by
him, until he had taken down his adventures from beginning to end.


           STORY OF THE SULTAN, THE DERVISH, AND THE
                         BARBER'S SON.


In the capital of a sultan named Rammaud lived a barber, who had
a son growing up to manhood, possessing great accomplishments of
mind and person, and whose wit and humour drew numerous customers
to his shop. One day a venerable dervish entering it, sat down,
and calling for a looking glass, adjusted his beard and whiskers,
at the same time asking many questions of the young man; after
which he laid down a sherif, rose up, and departed. The next day
he came again, and for several days following, always finishing
his visit by leaving a piece of gold upon the looking-glass, to
the great satisfaction of the barber, who from his other
customers never usually received more than sonic coppers of
little value; but though he liked the gold, his suspicions were
raised against the generous donor, supposing him to be a
necromancer, who had some evil design against his son, whom,
therefore, he cautioned to be upon his guard. The visits of the
dervish were continued as usual for some time; when one day he
found the barber's son alone in the shop, and was informed that
his father had gone to divert himself with viewing some
experiments which the sultan was making of the mixture of various
metals, being an adept in chemistry, and eager in search of the
philosopher's stone. The dervish now invited the young man to
accompany him to the spot where the experiments were making, and
on their arrival they saw a vast furnace, into which the sultan
and his attendants cast pieces of metal of various sorts. The
dervish having taken a lump of ore from his wallet threw it into
the furnace; then addressing the young barber, said, "I must for
the present bid you farewell, as I have a journey to take; but if
the sultan should inquire after me, let him know I am to be found
in a certain city, and will attend his summons." Having said
this, the dervish presented the barber's son with a purse of
gold, took his leave, and the youth returned home. Great was the
surprise of the sultan, when the metals in the furnace were all
melted, to find them converted into a mass of solid gold, which
proved, on assay, to be of the purest quality. Every one was
questioned as to what he had cast into the furnace, when there
appeared no reason to suppose the transmutation could have been
effected by such an accidental mixture of metals. At length it
was remarked, that a dervish, accompanying the barber's son, had
cast in a lump of ore, and immediately disappeared. Upon this the
sultan summoned the youth to his presence, and inquiring after
his companion, was informed of the place of his residence, and of
what, on his departure, he had said to him. The sultan was
overjoyed at the welcome intelligence, and dispatched the young
man, with an honourable attendance, to conduct the venerable
dervish to his presence, where being arrived, he was received
with the most distinguishing attention, and the barber's son was
promoted to high office. After some days, the sultan requested
the dervish to instruct him in the transmutation of metals, which
he readily did, as well as in many other occult mysteries; which
so gratified his royal patron, that he trusted the administration
of government to his care. This disgusted the ministers and
courtiers, who could not bear to be controlled by a stranger, and
therefore resolved to effect his ruin. By degrees they persuaded
their credulous master that the dervish was a magician, who would
in time possess himself of his throne, and the sultan, alarmed,
resolved to put him to death. With this intention, calling him to
the presence, he accused him of sorcery, and commanded an
executioner to strike off his head. "Forbear awhile," exclaimed
the dervish, "and let me live till I have shown you the most
wonderful specimen of my art." To this the sultan consented, when
the dervish, with chalk, drew a circle of considerable extent
round the sultan and his attendants, then stepping into the
middle of it, he drew a small circle round himself, and said,
"Now seize me if you can;" and immediately disappeared from
sight. At the same instant, the sultan and his courtiers found
themselves assaulted by invisible agents, who, tearing off their
robes, whipped them with scourges till the blood flowed in
streams from their lacerated backs. At length the punishment
ceased, but the mortification of the sultan did not end here, for
all the gold which the dervish had transmuted returned to its
original metals. Thus, by his unjust credulity, was a weak prince
punished for his ungrateful folly. The barber and his son also
were not to be found, so that the sultan could gain no
intelligence of the dervish, and he and his courtiers became the
laughingstock of the populace for years after their merited
chastisement.


               ADVENTURES OF ALEEFA, DAUGHTER OF
           MHEREJAUN, SULTAN OF HIND, AND EUSUFF, SON
                   OF SOHUL, SULTAN OF SIND.


Mherejaun, sultan of Hind, was many years without any progeny,
and immersed in melancholy at the thought of his kingdom's
passing to another family. One evening, while indulging his
gloomy thoughts, he dropped into a doze, from which he was roused
by a voice exclaiming, "Sultan, thy wife this night shall
conceive. If she bears a son, he will increase the glory of thy
house; but if a daughter, she will occasion thee disgrace and
misfortune." In due time the favourite sultana was delivered of a
daughter, to the great mortification of the parents, who would
have destroyed her had not her infant smiles diverted their
anger. She was brought up in the strictest privacy, and at the
end of twelve years the sultan had her conveyed to a strong
citadel erected in the middle of a deep lake, hoping in such a
confinement to prevent her from fulfilling the prediction which
had been made concerning her. Nothing could excel the
magnificence of her abode, where she was left only with female
attendants of the highest accomplishments, but no male was
allowed to approach even the borders of the lake, except when
supplies were conveyed for the use of its fair inhabitants, who
were then restricted to their apartments. The gate of the citadel
was entrusted to the care of an old lady, the princess's nurse.
For three years the fair Aleefa lived happy in her splendid
prison, but the decree of fate was not to be overcome, and an
event predestined by heaven overturned the cautious project of
sultan Mherejaun.

Eusuff, a dissipated young prince, son to the sultan of Sind,
having offended his father, fled from his court, and with a few
attendants reached the borders of the lake, in his way to seek an
asylum in the territories of Mherejaun. Curious to know who
inhabited the citadel in the midst of it, he swam over the lake,
and landed at the gate, which he found shut, but no one answered
his loudest call for admission. Upon this he wrote a note,
requesting compassion to a helpless stranger, and having fixed it
to an arrow, shot it over the battlements. It luckily for him
fell at the feet of the princess, then walking in one of the
courts of her palace. She prevailed upon her nurse to open the
gate, and at sight of Eusuff fell in love with him, as he did
with her. He was admitted, and the tenderest interviews took
place between them. Joy and pleasure prevailed in the citadel,
while the prince's attendants remained, expecting his return, on
the banks of the lake.

After some time, sultan Sohul wishing to be reconciled to his
son, and having learnt the route he had taken, dispatched his
nephew named Yiah to assure him of forgiveness, and invite him to
return to Sind. Yiah arriving at the lake, was informed by
Eusuff's attendants that the prince had entered the citadel,
since which they had not seen or heard anything of him. Yiah,
upon this, penned a note expressive of the sultan's forgiveness,
and his wish to see the prince, which he fixed to an arrow and
shot it into the palace, in the garden of which it fell, as
Eusuff and Aleefa were walking for their amusement. The prince,
on reading the note, overcome with joy at the intelligence of his
father's forgiveness of his errors, resolved to return home and
pay his duty to his parents. He communicated his design to the
princess, who was plunged into the deepest sorrow at the thought
of his departure, but he comforted her by assurances of his
speedy return, declaring that nothing but filial duty could have
torn him from her, even for a moment. She now implored him to to
take her with him, but Eusuff prudently represented that such a
step could only disgrace her fame and enrage her father, who, on
discovery of her flight, would invade the kingdom of Sind with
his powerful armies, and a scene of unnecessary bloodshed would
ensue. On the contrary, it they waited patiently, sultan
Mherejaun might be prevailed upon to consent to their union; but,
in the mean time, he would visit her often, while their meetings
might, through the fidelity of their mutual attendants, be kept
secret. Aleefa, though unwilling, was obliged to acknowledge the
justice of his reasoning, and consented to his departure; but on
his taking leave, with tears and embraces entreated him not to be
long absent, which he promised, and with truth, for his love was
sincere, and it was with difficulty he submitted to the call of
duty to a forgiving parent.

Eusuff having swam the lake with his bow and quiver upon his
head, as before, rejoined his companions, who rejoiced to see
him. He was received by his cousin Yiah with transports of
affection, and informed of what had happened since his departure
from court; after which the prince related his love adventure
with the fair Aleefa, at the same time requesting his secrecy,
and that he would charge the same on his attendants, as to his
having been in the citadel, which he should earnestly beg also of
his companions to observe. After a night's repose the two princes
marched towards Sind, and when within a day's distance from the
capital, dispatched a courier to give notice of their approach.
Sultan Sohul, overcome with joy at the recovery of his son,
having commanded the city to be ornamented and splendid
entertainments to be made for his triumphal entry, with his whole
court in their most magnificent array advanced to meet him. The
prince, on seeing his father's train, dismounted, fell on his
face, then running up, eagerly embraced the stirrup of the old
sultan, who threw himself upon his neck in a transport of joy,
and wept over him with tears of affectionate rapture. A horse
sumptuously caparisoned was now brought for the prince's
mounting, and the father and son rode side by side into the city,
amid the acclamations of all ranks of people; while, as they
proceeded, basins full of silver and gold, coined for the
occasion, were showered amongst the assembled crowds in the
streets. It is impossible to describe the tender interview
between the prince and the queen his mother, whose heart had been
nearly broken on the flight of her son, or the glad transports of
Eusuff's own ladies, who were in number three wives and forty
concubines. Suffice it to say, that all was joy and pleasure in
the palace, except in the breast of Eusuff; who mingled with the
satisfaction of return to his family an ardent desire to meet
again the beautiful Aleefa, so that the caresses of his women
gave him no pleasure; and when he retired to his apartment, he
did not, as was usual, call any of them to his presence, but
passed the night alone, thinking of his beloved. Morning invited
him to new scenes of festivity, prepared by his happy parents,
who little suspected how soon they were again to lose their son.

Eusuff having sacrificed a few days (to him long as the eve of
dissolution) to his sense of duty, could no longer restrain his
impatience, but with a faithful slave named Hullaul, mounted on a
favourite courser behind him, left the palace undiscovered in the
darkness of night, and speeded with the swiftness of the gale
towards the citadel of Aleefa. Being arrived on the banks of the
lake, he secured his saddle and bridle among some bushes, and was
carried with his attendant safely through the water by his noble
steed. Unbounded was the joy of the princess at again meeting her
faithful lover, nor was his rapture less than hers. Having
committed Hullaul to the care of the ladies of Aleefa, they
retired to their apartment. Thirty days rolled on almost
unperceived by Eusuff, who forgot his parents, his family, and
country, in the delights of love.

On the thirtieth evening, as Eusuff and Aleefa were viewing the
beautiful prospect from the terrace of the palace, they perceived
a boat sailing towards it, which, as it drew nearer, the princess
knew to belong to her father the sultan Mherejaun; upon which she
requested her lover to keep himself concealed from view, while
she received the persons in the vessel. Eusuff accordingly
withdrew into a chamber, the lattice of which looked upon the
lake; but how can we express his indignant surprise, and furious
jealousy, when he beheld landing from the boat two handsome young
men, into the arms of one of whom Aleefa threw herself with eager
transport, and after mutual embraces they withdrew together into
the palace. Without considering that his supposed rival might be
a near relation to the princess, as he in fact was, being her
first cousin, who had been brought up with her till her
confinement to the lake; Eusuff suffered himself to be overcome
by unworthy suspicion, and resolved to quit for ever a faithless
mistress. Having written an angry letter upraiding her with
falsehood, and bidding her farewell, he with his attendant
Hullaul mounted his courser; then delivering his note to one of
the females, to be given to the princess, he swam over the lake
and speeded rapidly to his own country, where he was once more
joyfully received by his parents and family; and in order to
forget the charms of Aleefa, he indulged himself in mirth and
pleasure with his lately forsaken ladies, who, delighted with the
long-wished-for return of his affection, strove with each ether
who should please him best.

The unsuspecting Aleefa was engaged with her cousin Sohaul and
Ali Bin Ibrahim, a faithful eunuch who was his attendant, asking
a thousand questions and listening to the news of her father's
court, when Eusuff's letter was put into her hands. Rising up,
she withdrew into a closet, opened it, and was much vexed at its
ungrateful contents; but knowing herself innocent, and trusting
that her lover would return when convinced of his mistake, she
composed her mind as firmly as she, could till the departure of
her cousin, who after some days took leave and returned to the
capital of Mherejaun, leaving behind him the eunuch, to the great
satisfaction of the princess, who hoped to make him the mediator
between her and her beloved. Nor was she mistaken. When unfolding
to him the whole of her adventures with Eusuff, he agreed to be
the bearer of a letter, and explain to him the cause of his
needless suspicion. Having swam the lake with the fair Aleefa's
packet wrapped in his clothes upon his head, the faithful Ah in
twenty days reached the city of Sind, and demanding an audience
in private, which was readily granted, delivered his commission
to the prince. Eusuff, whose anger was now calmed, and who had
already begun to feel uneasy at absence from the still reigning
favourite of his heart, on perusing her letter was overcome with
joy. He listened eagerly to the account of his fancied rival by
the eloquent Ali Bin Ibrohim, to whom he expressed his conviction
of her constancy, his own sorrow for his unreasonable desertion
of her, and his intention of departing to visit her the next
night, till when he desired the eunuch to repose himself after
his fatigue. Ali Bin Ibrahim was then lodged, by the prince's
orders, in one of the most splendid apartments of the palace, and
respectfully waited upon by the domestics of his court. The night
following, Eusuff having ordered his favourite Hullaul to make
preparations, departed from Sind as before, with the eunuch
mounted on a second courser. They in a few days reached the
borders of the lake, swam over, and to the great joy of the once
more happy Aleefa arrived at the citadel. The recollection of the
pains of absence added a zest to the transports of reunion, and
the lovers were, if possible, more delighted with each other than
before their separation. The faithful Ali Bin Ibrahim was now
dismissed with invaluable presents of precious stones, and
returned to the court of Mherejaun, the time for his stay at the
citadel of the lake being expired. On his arrival, the sultan,
anxious for intelligence of his daughter's health, took him into
his closet, and while he was questioning him, by some accident
the eunuch's turban unfortunately falling off, the precious
stones, which, with a summary of the adventures of Eusuff and
Aleefa, and his own embassy to Sind, were wrapped in the folds,
tumbled upon the floor. The sultan knew the jewels, and examining
the turban, to make farther discoveries, found the paper, which
he eagerly read; and furious was his wrath, when from the
contents it appeared that all his caution to guard against the
decrees of heaven had been vain, that the princess had been
seduced, and his house dishonoured. He sternly inquired of the
trembling Ali if Eusuff was yet with his daughter, and was
answered in the affirmative, when he immediately gave orders for
vessels to be prepared for his departure, hoping to take him
prisoner, and at the same time commanded his army to march along
the banks of the lake and encamp opposite the citadel. The
unfortunate eunuch was thrown into a dungeon and loaded with
heavy chains, after he had been bastinadoed almost to death; but
still faithful to the lovers, he prevailed upon his gaoler by a
large bribe during the night to permit him to dispatch a note by
a trusty messenger to the princess, apprising her of the
misfortune which had happened, in hopes that she would have time
to escape with Eusuff towards his own country before her father's
arrival. Fortunately for the lovers, this information reached
them the next morning, when they consulted what measures to
pursue, and it was agreed, that instead of both quitting the
citadel, only Eusuff and Hullaul should return to Sind, as the
princess was unequal to such a rapid journey, but that in order
to ensure her safety, the slaves should, on the sultan's arrival,
assure him that she had gone off with her lover, when he would
either return home or pursue the prince with his army; who,
however, mounted as he was on so swift a courser, could not be
overtaken. It was also settled that Eusuff, on his arrival in his
own country, should send an embassy to Mherejaun, declaring his
marriage with Aleefa, and requesting pardon, and leave to pay his
duty as his son-in-law. This stratagem had in part its effect,
but no precaution could ward off the fulfilment of the prediction
at the princess's birth, which was that she should occasion the
disgrace and death of her father.

Mherejaun armed at the citadel a few hours after Eusuff's escape,
and was informed by her attendants that she had also accompanied
him in his flight; upon which the enraged sultan, hurried on by
fate, without stopping to search the palace in which his daughter
was concealed, hastened to join his troops on the banks of the
lake, and with a vast army pursued the Sindian prince, who,
however, reached his capital in safety. On his arrival, having
informed his father of his adventures, the old sultan, eager to
gratify his son, approved of his additional marriage with the
fair Aleefa, and dispatched an embassy to Mherejaun, who by this
time was in the territory of Sind, laying it waste with fire and
sword, no troops scarcely being opposed to his sudden invasion.
He received the ambassador with mortifying haughtiness, bidding
him return to his master, and inform him that he never would
forgive the seduction of his daughter, in revenge for which he
had taken a solemn oath to overturn the kingdom of Sind, raze the
capital, and feast his eyes with the blood of the old sultan and
his son. On receipt of this ungracious reply to his proposals,
the sultan and Eusuff had no alternative but to oppose so
inveterate a foe. They collected their troops, by whom they were
much beloved, and marched to meet the enemy, whom, after an
obstinate battle, they defeated, and Mherejaun was slain in the
action. It is impossible to resist the decrees of heaven. From
God we came, and to God we must return.

Eusuff, after the action, behaved with the greatest humility to
the conquered, and had the body of the unfortunate Mherejaun
embalmed and laid in a splendid litter, in which it was conducted
by a numerous escort, in respectful solemnity, to the capital of
Hind, and deposited with funeral pomp, becoming the rank of the
deceased, in a magnificent mausoleum, which had been erected by
himself, as is customary among the sovereigns of Asia. The
prince, at the same time, dispatched letters of condolence to the
mother of Aleefa, lamenting the fate of Mherejaun, whom he had
been, much against his will, necessitated to oppose in battle,
and expressing his ardent love for her daughter, a marriage with
whom was his highest hope, as it was his first wish to console
the mother of his beloved in her misfortunes.

The sultana, who had received intelligence of the decisive
victory and the death of her husband, and who expected, instead
of such conduct, to see the victor besieging her capital, felt
some alleviation of her sorrow in the prospect of saving her
people from destruction, by consenting to an union between Eusuff
and Aleefa. Her answer accordingly was favourable, upon which the
prince of Sind repaired to the lake, and conducting his willing
bride to the capital of Hind, at the expiration of the stated
time of mourning for Mherejaun, their nuptials were celebrated
with all possible magnificence, amid the united acclamations of
the subjects, who readily acknowledged his authority, and had no
cause to repent of their submission to his yoke. His next care
was to inform the caliph Mamoon, who was then commander of the
faithful at Bagdad, of the events which had happened,
accompanying his petition with a great sum of money, and
offerings of all the rarities the countries of Hind and Sind
afforded; among which were ten beautiful slaves, highly
accomplished in singing, dancing, and a talent for poetry. They
recited extempore verses before the caliph, but the subject of
each was so expressive of their wish to return to their beloved
sovereign, and delivered in so affecting a manner, that Mamoon,
though delighted with their wit and beauty, sacrificed his own
pleasure to their feelings, and sent them back to Eusuff by the
officer who carried the edict, confirming him in his dominions,
where the prince of Sind and the fair Aleefa continued long, amid
a numerous progeny, to live the protectors of their happy
subjects.


            ADVENTURES OF THE THREE PRINCES, SONS OF
                      THE SULTAN OF CHINA.


A sultaness of China being seized with an alarming illness was
given over by the physicians, who declared her case incurable by
any other means than the water of life, which they feared it was
next to impossible to obtain before nature would be exhausted;
the country in which, if anywhere, it was to be found, being so
very distant. Such, however, was the affection of the sultaness's
three sons, that in hopes of saving their mother they resolved to
go in search of the precious medicine, and departed immediately
in the route pointed out by the physicians. After travelling
without success to their inquiries through divers countries, they
agreed to separate, in hopes that one of them at least might be
fortunate enough to procure the wished-for miraculous liquid, and
return home in time to save their mother. Having taken an
affectionate farewell, each pursued his journey alone. The
eldest prince, after a fatiguing walk (for the brothers had
thought it prudent to lay aside their dignity, and as safest to
disguise themselves in mean habits) over a wild country, arrived
at last within sight of a large city, inhabited by blasphemous
Jews, near which, in a superb synagogue, he laid himself down on
a carpet to repose, being quite exhausted with toil and hunger.
He had not rested long, when a Jew rabbi entering the building,
the prince begged for the love of God a little refreshment; but
the wicked infidel, who hated true believers, instead of
relieving, cruelly put him to death with his sabre, and wrapping
the corpse in a mat, threw it into a corner of the synagogue. By
ill fortune, on the day following the second prince arrived, and
was treated in the same manner by the barbarous Jew, and on the
next came also the youngest brother to the same place, where he
was met by the base assassin, who would have killed him also, had
not the extraordinary beauty of the young prince struck his
covetous mind with the idea of making him a slave, and selling
him for a large sum of money. Speaking therefore to him in a kind
manner he brought him refreshments, and inquired if he was
willing to be his servant, and employ himself in cleaning the
synagogue and lighting the lamps; to which the prince, being in
an exhausted condition, seemingly assented, seeing no other means
of present support, but secretly resolved to escape when
recovered from his fatigue. The Jew now took him to his house in
the city, and showed him, apparently, the same tenderness as he
used towards his own children. The next day the prince repaired
to his allotted task of cleaning the synagogue, where, to his
grief and horror, he presently discovered the bodies of his
unfortunate brothers. While he lamented their unhappy fate with
showers of tears, the recollection of his own perilous situation,
in the power of their murderer, filled his mind with terror; but
after the agonies of thought were over, the natural courage of a
princely heart rose in his bosom, and he meditated how to revenge
the death of his brothers on the savage infidel. An opportunity
happened that same night. The prince having composed his mind,
finished his work, and when the Jew arrived to examine it,
dissembled so well, that no appearance of his inward melancholy
was displayed. The Jew applauded his diligence, and taking him
home, made him sit down to supper with himself and family,
consisting of a wife and two young lads. It being the middle of
summer, and the weather sultry, they retired to sleep on the open
terrace of the house, which was very lofty. In the dead of night,
when the Jew and his family were fast locked in the arms of
slumber, the prince, who had purposely kept himself awake, seized
the sabre of the treacherous infidel, and with a dexterous blow
struck off his head; then snatching up the two children, hurled
them headlong from the terrace, so that their brains were dashed
out on the stone pavement of the court below. He then uplifted
the sabre to destroy the Jew's wife, but the thought that she
might be of use to him withheld his hand. He awoke her gently,
commanded her to make no noise, and follow him down stairs,
where, by degrees, he informed her of his adventures, the
discovery he had made of the murder of his brothers, and his
revenge on her treacherous husband and ill-fated children, whom,
however, he would not have destroyed had he not been apprehensive
of their cries alarming the neighbourhood. The Moosulmaun woman,
for such she secretly was, did not regard the death of the wicked
Jew, who had married her against her will, and often used her
with great harshness, and her sorrows for the children were
softened by the salvation of her own life. She also felt
sentiments of tenderness towards the prince, whose injuries in
the murder of his unfortunate brothers had compelled him to
revenge, and felt herself obliged to his mercy in letting her
live. She now informed him that in the Jew's laboratory were many
valuable medicines, and among them the very water of life he was
in search of; which intelligence was most gratifying to the
prince, who offered to take the woman under his protection, and
she willingly consented to accompany him to a country inhabited
by true believers. Having packed up the medicines, with some
valuable jewels, and put them, with various refreshments and
necessaries, on two camels, they mounted and left the city
undiscovered, nor did any accident occur on their journey; but on
reaching the capital of China, the prince found that his father
was dead, while his mother, contrary to expectation, lingered in
painful existence. The ministers, who had with difficulty, in
hopes of the three brothers' arrival, kept the next relations of
the throne from disputing their right to ascend it, were rejoiced
at his return; and on being informed of the untimely end of the
two elder princes, immediately proclaimed him sultan. His first
care was to administer comfort and relief to his afflicted
mother, on whom the water of life had an instantaneous effect;
his next, to regulate the affairs of his government, which he did
with such ability, justice, and moderation, that he became
endeared to his subjects, and an example to other sovereigns.

As the sultan, some time after his accession, was one day amusing
himself in the chase, he saw a venerable Arab, accompanied by his
daughter, travelling on horseback. By accident the young female's
veil being blown aside, displayed such beauty to the eyes of the
sultan, as instantly fascinated his heart, and made him wish to
have her for his sultana. He immediately made offers to her
father of his alliance; but great was his mortification and
surprise when the Arab rejected them, saying, "That he had sworn
not to give his daughter to any one who was not master of some
useful trade, by which a livelihood might be earned." "Father,"
replied the sultan, "what occasion is there that I should learn a
mean occupation, when I have the wealth of a kingdom at my
command?" "Because," rejoined the Arab, "such are the
vicissitudes of the world, that you may lose your kingdom and
starve, if not able to work in some way for your living." The
sultan, unlike some princes, who would have seized the lady and
punished the Arab for his freedom, felt the force of his remark,
applauded his wisdom, and requested that he would not betroth her
to another, as he was resolved to make himself worthy of becoming
his son-in-law by learning some handicraft, till when he hoped
they would accept of an abode near the palace. To this the old
man readily consented; and in a short time the sultan, eager to
possess his bride, became such an adept in the handicraft of
making ornamental mats for sofas and cushions of cane and reeds,
that the Arab agreed to the nuptials, which were celebrated with
all possible splendour and rejoicing, while the subjects admired
more than ever the justice and moderation of their sovereign; so
true is it, that, unless in depraved states, a good prince makes
a good people.

Some years rolled on in uninterrupted felicity to the sultan and
his beloved partner. It was the custom of the former frequently
to visit in the disguise of a dervish the various quarters of the
city, by which means he learnt the opinions of the people, and
inspected the conduct of the police. One day in an excursion of
this sort he passed by a cook's shop, and being hungry, stepped
in to take some refreshment. He was, with seeming respect,
conducted to a back room spread with flowered carpeting, over
which was a covering of muslin transparently fine. Pulling off
his slippers, he entered the room and sat down upon a neat
musnud, but to his surprise and terror it instantly sunk under
him, and he found himself at the bottom of a dark vault, where by
a glimmering light he could discern several naked bodies of
unfortunate persons who had been murdered, and presently
appeared, descending from a narrow staircase, a black slave of
savage countenance, who, brandishing a huge cimeter, cried out,
"Wretch, prepare thyself to die!" The sultan was alarmed, but his
presence of mind did not forsake him. "What good," said he, "will
my death do you or your employers? I have nothing about me but
the humble habit I wear; but if you spare my life, I possess an
art that will produce your employers considerable wealth." Upon
this, the slave going to the master of the house informed him of
what the supposed dervish had said, when the treacherous cook
came to inquire after the promised riches. "Give me only some
reeds and canes, varnished of different colours," said the
sultan, "and I will make a mat, which if you carry to the palace
and present to the vizier, he will purchase it for a thousand
pieces of gold." The desired articles were furnished, and the
sultan setting to work, in a few days finished a mat, in which he
ingeniously contrived to plait in flowery characters, known only
to himself and his vizier, the account of his situation. When
finished, he gave it to his treacherous host, who admired the
beauty of the workmanship, and not doubting of the reward,
carried it to the palace, where he demanded admission, saying he
had a curiosity to offer for sale. The vizier, who was then
giving audience to petitioners, commanded him to be brought in;
but what was his astonishment when the mat was unfolded, to see
pourtrayed upon it the imminent danger of the sultan, whom he
supposed to be in his haram, and whose absence the sultana had,
in order to prevent confusion, commanded to be kept secret,
hoping for his speedy return. The vizier instantly summoning his
guards seized the villanous cook, and proceeding to his house,
released the sultan from his confinement. The house was razed to
the ground, and the abominable owner, with his guilty family, put
to death. The sultan exultingly felt the use of having learnt a
useful art, which had been the means of saving his life.


               STORY OF THE GOOD VIZIER UNJUSTLY
                          IMPRISONED.


A certain vizier, though perfectly loyal and of the strictest
integrity, having been falsely accused by his enemies, was,
without due examination of the charges brought against him,
thrown into prison, where, by orders from the sultan, he was
confined to a gloomy dungeon, and allowed only bread and water
for his daily food. In this wretched abode he lay for seven
years, at the expiration of which, the sultan his master, who was
in the habit of walking about the city in disguise to amuse
himself, chanced to pass by the house of his injured minister,
dressed as a dervish. To his surprise he saw it open, and a crowd
of domestics busy in cleaning the apartments, and preparing for
the reception of the owner, who, they said, had commanded them by
a messenger from the prison to put things in order, as he should
that day be restored to the sultan's favour, and return home. The
sultan, who, so far from intending to release the unfortunate
vizier, had almost erased the remembrance of him from his mind,
was astonished at the report of the domestics, but thought his
long confinement might possibly have disturbed the brain of his
prisoner, who in his madness might have fancied his deliverance
to be at hand. He resolved however to go and visit the prison
disguised as he was, and see the vizier. Having purchased a
quantity of bread and cakes, he proceeded to the gaol, and
requested, under pretence of fulfilling a vow he had made to feed
the prisoners, to be admitted, and allowed to distribute his
charity among them. The gaoler granted his request, and permitted
him to visit the different cells. At length he came to that of
the vizier, who was employed earnestly at his devotions, which on
the entrance of the supposed dervish he suspended, and inquired
his business. "I come," said he, "for though unknown to you I
have always prayed for your welfare, to congratulate you on your
approaching deliverance, which I understand you have announced to
your domestics, but fear without foundation, not having heard of
any orders for the purpose from the sultan." "That may be true,
charitable dervish," said the vizier, "but depend upon it before
night I shall be released and restored to office." "I wish it may
be so," replied the sultan; "but upon what ground do you build an
expectation, the gratification of which appears to me so
improbable?" "Be seated, good dervish, and I will tell you,"
rejoined the vizier, and began as follows: "Know then, my friend,
experience has convinced me that the height of prosperity is
always quickly succeeded by adverse fortune, and the depth of
affliction by sudden relief. When I was in office, beloved by the
people for my lenient administration, and distinguished by the
sultan, whose honour and advantage were the constant objects of
my care, and for whose welfare I have never ceased to pray even
in this gloomy dungeon, I was one evening taking the air upon the
river in a splendid barge with some favourite companions. As we
were drinking coffee, the cup I held in my hand, which was made
of a single emerald of immense value, and which I highly prized,
slipped from it and fell into the water; upon which I ordered the
barge to be stopped, and sent for a diver, to whom I promised an
ample reward should he recover the cup. He undressed, and desired
me to point out the place at which it fell; when I, having in my
hand a rich diamond ring, heedlessly, in a fit of absence, threw
it into that part of the river. While I was exclaiming against my
own stupidity, the diver made a plunge towards where I had cast
the ring, and in less than two minutes reappeared with the
coffee-cup in his hand, when to my great surprise within it I
found also my ring. I rewarded him liberally, and was exulting in
the recovery of my jewels, when it suddenly struck my mind, that
such unusual good fortune must speedily be followed by some
disaster. This reflection made me melancholy, and I returned home
with a foreboding sadness, nor without cause, for that very night
my enemies accused me falsely of treason to the sultan, who
believed the charge, and next morning I was hurried to this
gloomy cell, where I have now remained seven years with only
bread and water for my support. God, however, has given me
resignation to his decrees, and this day an accident occurred
which makes me confident of release before night, and restoration
to the sultan's favour, which, as I have always done, I will
endeavour to deserve. You must know, venerable dervish, that this
morning I felt an unconquerable longing to taste a bit of flesh,
and earnestly entreated my keeper, giving him at the same time a
piece of gold, to indulge my wish. The man, softened by the
present, brought me a stew, on which I prepared to make a
delicious meal; but while, according to custom before eating, I
was performing my ablutions, guess my mortification, when a huge
rat running from his hole leaped into the dish which was placed
upon the floor. I was near fainting with agony at the sight, and
could not refrain from tears; but at length recovering from the
poignancy of disappointment, the rays of comfort darted upon my
mind, and I reflected that as disgrace and imprisonment had
instantaneously followed the fortunate recovery of my cup and
ring, so this mortification, a greater than which could not have
happened, would be immediately succeeded by returning prosperity.
In this conviction I prevailed on the gaoler to order my
domestics to make ready my house and expect my return."

The disguised sultan, who, while the vizier was speaking, felt
every word impress him more and more with the conviction of his
innocence, had much difficulty to support his assumed character;
but not choosing his visit to the prison should be known at
present, he restrained his feelings, and when the minister had
finished took his leave, saying, he hoped his presage would be
fulfilled. He then returned undiscovered to the palace, and
entering his cabinet, resumed his usual habit; after which he
issued orders for the release of the vizier, sending him a robe
of honour and splendid attendants to escort him to court, at the
same time condemning to confiscation and imprisonment his
malicious accusers. On his arrival, the sultan received the
vizier with the most gracious distinction; and having presented
him with the canopy of state, the seal and the inkstand set with
rich jewels, the insignia of office, conducted him to a private
chamber, where falling upon his neck he embraced him, and
requesting him to forget past oppression, informed him of his
disguised visit to the prison; after which he dismissed him to
his own palace.


            STORY OF THE LADY OF CAIRO AND HER FOUR
                           GALLANTS.


A virtuous lady of Cairo, who seldom left her house but upon
urgent business, one day returning from the bath, passed by the
tribunal of the cauzee just as it was breaking up, when the
magistrate perceived her, and struck with her dignity and
elegance of gait, from which he judged of her beauty, called her
to him, and in a soft whisper expressed his desire of a private
interview. The lady being resolved to punish him for his unworthy
conduct, seemingly consented, and desired him to repair to her
house that evening, which he gladly promised. She then pursued
her route homewards, but was on the way accosted by three other
men, who made her similar proposals, all which she accepted, and
fixed that evening for receiving their visits. The first of these
gallants was the customs tax-collector of Cairo, the second the
chief of the butchers, and the third a rich merchant.

When the lady returned to her house she informed her husband of
what had happened, and begged him to permit her to execute a
stratagem that she had formed to punish their insolence, which
would not only afford himself and her much laughable amusement,
but solid advantage, as doubtless the lovers would each bring
with him a handsome present. The husband, who knew he could trust
the virtue of his wife, readily consented, and the lady having
prepared a handsome entertainment, adorned herself in her richest
apparel, and seated herself to receive her guests. Evening had
just shut in, when the venerable cauzee having finished his
sunset devotions, impatiently repaired first to his mistress and
knocked at the door, which the lady opened and led him upstairs,
where he presented her with a rosary of valuable pearl; after
which she made him undress, and in place of his robes put on a
loose vest of yellow muslin, and a parti-coloured cap, her
husband all the while looking at them through the door of a
closet, and ready to burst his sides with laughter as he beheld
the tender grimaces of the enamoured magistrate. The happiness of
the venerable gallant was however soon changed to frightful
alarm, for he had scarcely sat down and begun to partake of some
refreshment, when a loud rap was heard at the door; upon which
the lady starting up in well-affected terror, cried out,
"Mahummud protect us! for this is my husband's knock, and if he
finds you here, he will put us both to death." The cauzee's heart
sank within him, and he became more dead than alive; but the lady
somewhat revived him by thrusting him into her bed-chamber,
desiring him to remain still, as possibly a way might be found
for his escape. He gladly retired, secretly vowing that if spared
from his present threatening distress, Satan should no more tempt
him to make love or break the sacred law.

The lady having disposed of the cauzee, hastened to the door, where
she found the expecting tax-collector, who brought with him, as a
present, a set of jewels. She shewed him upstairs, took off his rich
clothes, and made him put on a crimson vest, and a green cap with
black spots. He had scarcely sat down when the door again resounded,
and she played over the same game as she had done with the cauzee, who
on his also entering the bed-chamber was somewhat pleased at seeing a
brother magistrate in the same ridiculous plight with himself. The
venerable lovers condoled by signs with each other, but dared not
speak for fear of discovery. The chief of the butchers, on his
arrival, was next ushered up stairs, and his present received, then
made to undress and put on a blue vest with a scarlet cap, ornamented
with sea shells and bits of tinsel; but he had scarce time to finish,
when a fourth loud rap was heard at the door, the scene of alarm was
renewed, and the frightened gallant hurried into the room to keep
company with his rivals. Now appeared the respectable merchant, who
presented the cunning lady with several rich veils, pieces of silk,
and embroidered muslins, after which he was asked to undress and
enrobe himself in a sky coloured vest and a cap striped with red and
white; which he had hardly put on when a thundering knock at the gate
put an end to his transports, and the wife pretending great alarm, as
it was her husband's rap, forced him into the bed-chamber, where, to
his surprise he discovered three of his intimate acquaintance.

The husband, who had left his hiding place and knocked at the
door, now entered, and after saluting his wife, sat down, when
having partaken of the refreshments provided for the gallants,
the happy couple entered into conversation loud enough to be
overheard by the wretched inamorati, who were quaking for fear of
discovery. "Light of my eyes," said the husband, "didst thou meet
with any thing amusing to-day in thy visit to the bath? and if
so, divert me with an account of it." "I did, indeed," said the
lady, "for I met with four antic creatures, whom" (at hearing
this the unfortunate lovers gave themselves over for lost) "I had
a great inclination to bring home with me" (here they recovered a
little from their alarm) "to divert us, but fearful of your
displeasure I did not; however, if agreeable, we can send for
them to-morrow." The frighted gallants now indulged some hope of
escape through the kindness of their cunning mistress, and began
to breathe a little freer, but very short was the suspension of
their fears. "I am sorry thou didst not bring them," said the
husband, "because business will to-morrow call me from home, and
I shall be absent for some days." Upon this, the lady laughing,
said, "Well, then, you must know that in fact I have brought
them, and was diverting myself with them when you came in, but
fearful you might suspect something wrong I hurried them into our
bed-chamber, in order to conceal them till I had tried your
temper, hoping, should you not be in good humour, to find some
means of letting them out undiscovered." It is impossible to
describe the alarm into which the wretched gallants were now
plunged, especially when the husband commanded his wife to bring
them out one by one, saying, "Let each entertain us with a dance
and then recite a story, but if they do not please me, I will
strike off their heads." "Heaven protect us," said the cauzee,
"how can men of our gravity dance? but there is no resisting the
decrees of fate, nor do I see any chance of escape from this
artful baggage and her savage husband but by performing as well
as we can." His companions were of the same opinion, and mustered
what courage they could to act as they should be ordered.

The wife now entered the chamber, and putting a tambourine into
the cauzee's hands, led him out and began to play a merry tune
upon her lute, to which the affrighted magistrate danced with a
thousand antics and grimaces like an old baboon, beating time
with the tambourine, to the great delight of the husband, who
every now and then jeeringly cried out, "Really wife, if I did
not know this fellow was a buffoon, I should take him for our
cauzee; but God forgive me, I know our worthy magistrate is
either at his devotions, or employed in investigating cases for
to-morrow's decision." Upon this the cauzee danced with redoubled
vigour, and more ridiculous gestures, in hopes of evading
discovery. At length he was overpowered by such unusual exercise;
but the husband had no mercy upon his sufferings, and made him
continue capering by threatening the bastinado, till the tired
judge was exhausted, and fainted upon the floor in a bath of
perspiration, when they held him up, and pouring a goblet of wine
down his throat it somewhat revived him. He was now suffered to
breathe a little, and something given him to eat, which, with a
second cup of liquor, recovered his strength. The husband now
demanded his story; and the cauzee, assuming the gesture of a
coffee-house droll, began as follows.


                        The Cauzee's Story.


A young tailor, whose shop was opposite the house of an officer,
was so attracted from his work by the appearance of a beautiful
young lady, his wife, in her balcony, that he became desperately
in love, and would sit whole days waiting her coming, and when
she showed herself make signs of his passion. For some time his
ridiculous action diverted her, but at length she grew tired of
the farce she had kept up by answering his signals, and of the
interruption it gave to her taking the fresh air, so that she
resolved to punish him for his presumption, and oblige him to
quit his stall. Having laid her plan, one day when her husband
was gone out for a few hours she dispatched a female slave to
invite the tailor to drink coffee. To express the rapture of the
happy snip is impossible. He fell at the feet of the slave, which
he kissed as the welcome messengers of good tidings, gave her a
piece of gold, and uttered some nonsensical verses that he had
composed in praise of his beloved; then dressing himself in his
best habit, he folded his turban in the most tasty manner, and
curled his mustachios to the greatest advantage, after which he
hastened exultingly to the lady's house, and was admitted to her
presence. She sat upon a rich musnud, and gracefully lifting up
her veil welcomed the tailor, who was so overcome that he had
nearly fainted away with excess of rapture. She desired him to be
seated, but such was his bashfulness that he would not approach
farther than the corner of the carpet. Coffee was brought in, and
a cup presented him; but not being used to such magnificence and
form, and his eyes, also, being staringly fixed on the beauties
of the lady, instead of carrying the cup to his mouth, he hit his
nose and overthrew the liquid upon his vest. The lady smiled, and
ordered him another cup; but while he was endeavouring to drink
it with a little more composure, a loud knock was heard at the
door, and she starting up, cried out with great agitation, "Good
heavens! this is my husband's knock; if he finds us together he
will sacrifice us to his fury!" The poor tailor, in terror, fell
flat upon the carpet, when the lady and her slave threw some cold
water upon his face, and when a little recovered hurried him away
to a chamber, into which they forced him, and desired him to
remain quiet, as the only means of saving his life. Here he
remained quivering and trembling, more alive than dead, but
perfectly cured of his love, and vowing never again to look up at
a balcony.

When the tailor was disposed of, the lady again sat down upon her
stool, and ordered her slave to open the gate. Upon her husband's
entering the room he was surprised at beholding things set out
for an entertainment, and inquired who had been with her; when
she replied tartly, "A lover." "And where is he now?" angrily
replied the officer. "In yonder chamber, and if you please you
may sacrifice him to your fury, and myself afterwards." The
officer demanded the key, which she gave him; but while this was
passing, the agony of the unfortunate tailor was worse than
death; he fully expecting every moment to have his head struck
off: in short, he was in a most pitiable condition. The officer
went to the door, and had put the key into the lock, when his
wife burst suddenly into a fit of laughter: upon which he
exclaimed angrily, "Who do you laugh at?" "Why, at yourself, to
be sure, my wise lord," replied the lady; "for who but yourself
could suppose a woman serious when she told him where to find out
a concealed lover? I wanted to discover how far jealousy would
carry you, and invented this trick for the purpose," The officer,
upon this, was struck with admiration of his wife's pleasantry
and his own credulity, which so tickled his fancy that he laughed
immoderately, begged pardon for his foolish conduct, and they
spent the evening cheerfully together; after which, the husband
going to the bath, his wife charitably released the almost dead
tailor, and reproving him for his impertinence, declared if he
ever again looked up at her balcony she would contrive his death.
The tailor, perfectly cured of love for his superior in life,
made the most abject submission, thanked her for his deliverance,
hurried home, prayed heartily for his escape, and the very next
day took care to move from so dangerous a neighbourhood.

The husband and wife were highly diverted with the cauzee's story,
and after another dance permitted him to depart, and get home as
well as he could in his ridiculous habit. How he got there, and
what excuse he was able to make for so unmagisterial an
appearance, we are not informed; but strange whispers went about
the city, and the cauzee's dance became the favourite one or the
strolling drolls, whom he had often the mortification of seeing
taking him off as he passed to and from the tribunal, and not
unfrequently in causes of adultery the evidences and culprits
would laugh in his face. He, however, never again suffered Satan
to tempt him, and was scarcely able to look at a strange woman,
so great was his fear of being led astray.

When the cauzee was gone, the lady, repairing to the apartment,
brought out the grave tax-collector, whom her husband addressed
by name, saying, "Venerable sir, how long have you turned droll?
can you favour me with a dance?" The tax-collector made no reply,
but began capering, nor was he permitted to stop till quite
tired. He was then allowed to sit, some refreshment was given
him, and when revived he was desired to tell a story: knowing
resistance vain, he complied. After having finished he was
dismissed, and the other gallants were brought in and treated in
a like manner.


            STORY OF THE MERCHANT, HIS DAUGHTER, AND
                     THE PRINCE OF EERAUK.


A certain rich merchant was constantly repining, because
Providence had not added to his numerous blessings that of a
child to inherit his vast wealth. This want destroyed the power
of affluence to make him happy, and he importuned heaven with
unceasing prayers. At length one evening, just as he had
concluded his devotions, he heard a voice, saying, "Thy request
has been heard, and thou wilt have a daughter, but she will give
thee much uneasiness in her fourteenth year by an amour with the
prince of Eerauk, and remember there is no avoiding the decrees
of fate."

The merchant's wife that same night conceived, and at the usual
time brought forth a daughter, who grew up an exquisite beauty.
No pains were spared in her education, so that at thirteen she
became most accomplished, and the fame of her charms and
perfections was spread throughout the city. The merchant enjoyed
the graces of his child, but at the same time his heart was heavy
with anxiety for her fate, whenever he called to mind the
prediction concerning her; so that at length he determined to
consult a celebrated dervish, his friend, on the possible means
of averting the fulfilment of the prophecy. The dervish gave him
but little hopes of being able to counteract the will of heaven,
but advised him to carry the beautiful maiden to a sequestered
mansion, situated among unfrequented mountains surrounding it on
all sides, and the only entrance to which was by a dark cavern
hewn out of the solid rock, which might be safely guarded by a
few faithful domestics. "Here," said the dervish, "your daughter
may pass the predicted year, and if any human care can avail she
may be thus saved from the threatened dishonour; but it is in
vain for man to fight against the arms of heaven, therefore
prepare thy mind for resignation to its decrees."

The merchant followed the advice of his friend, and having made
the necessary preparations, accompanied by him, and attended by
some white and black slaves of both sexes, arrived, after a
month's journey, with his daughter, at the desired mansion; in
which having placed her, he, after a day's repose, took his
departure homewards with the dervish. Ample stores of all
necessaries for her accommodation had been laid in, and slaves
male and female were left for her attendance and protection. Not
many days, had elapsed when an incident occurred, clearly proving
the emptiness of human caution against the predestination of
fate. The prince of Eerauk being upon a hunting excursion outrode
his attendants, and missing his way, reached the gate of the
cavern leading to the mansion, which was guarded by two black
slaves, who seeing a stranger, cried out to him to withdraw. He
stopped his horse, and in a supplicating tone requested
protection and refreshment for the night, as he had wandered from
the road, and was almost exhausted from weariness and want of
food. The slaves were moved by the representation of his
distress, as well as awed by his noble appearance, and
apprehending no danger from a single person, conducted him
through the cavern, into the beautiful valley, in which stood the
mansion. They then informed their mistress of his arrival, who
commanded him to be introduced into an apartment, in which an
elegant entertainment was provided, where she gave him the most
hospitable reception. To become known to each other was to love;
nor was it long ere the prediction respecting the merchant's
daughter proved fully verified. Some months passed in mutual
happiness; when the prince, becoming anxious to return to his
friends, took leave of his mistress, promising when he had seen
his family to visit her again, and make her his wife.

On his way he met the merchant, who was coming to see his
daughter. Halting at the same spot they fell into conversation,
in which each inquired after the other's situation, and the
prince, little aware to whom he was speaking, related his late
adventure. The merchant, convinced that all his caution had been
vain, concealed his uneasiness, resolved to take his daughter
home, make the best of what had happened, and never again to
struggle against fate. On his arrival at the cavern he found his
daughter unwell; and before they reached their own abode she was
delivered of a male infant, who, to save her credit, was left
exposed in a small tent with a sum of money laid under its
pillow, in hopes that the first passenger would take the child
under his care. It so happened, that a caravan passing by, the
leader of it, on examining the tent and seeing the infant, took
it up, and having no children adopted it as his own. The prince
of Eerauk having seen his parents, again repaired to visit his
beautiful mistress, and on his journey to the cavern once more
met the merchant, who, at his daughter's request, was travelling
towards Eerauk to acquaint him with her situation. The prince,
overjoyed, accompanied the merchant home, married the young lady,
and with her parents returned to his dominions. Their exposed
son, after long inquiry, was discovered, and liberal rewards
bestowed on the leader of the caravan, who at his own request was
permitted to reside in the palace of Eerauk, and superintend the
education of his adopted son.


            ADVENTURES OF THE CAUZEE, HIS WIFE, &c.


In the capital of Bagdad there was formerly a cauzee, who filled
the seat of justice with the purest integrity, and who by his
example in private life gave force to the strictness of his
public decrees. After some years spent in this honourable post,
he became anxious to make the pilgrimage to Mecca; and having
obtained permission of the caliph, departed on his pious journey,
leaving his wife, a beautiful woman, under the protection of his
brother, who promised to respect her as his daughter. The cauzee,
however, had not long left home, when the brother, instigated by
passion, made love to his sister-in-law, which she rejected with
scorn; being, however, unwilling to expose so near a relative to
her husband, she endeavoured to divert him from his purpose by
argument on the heinousness of his intended crime, but in vain.
The abominable wretch, instead of repenting, a gain and again
offered his love, and at last threatened, if she would not accept
his love, to accuse her of adultery, and bring upon her the
punishment of the law. This threat having no effect, the
atrocious villain suborned evidences to swear that they had seen
her in the act of infidelity, and she was sentenced to receive
one hundred strokes with a knotted whip, and be banished from the
city. Having endured this disgraceful punishment, the unhappy
lady was led through Bagdad by the public executioner, amid the
taunts and scorns of the populace; after which she was thrust oat
of the gates and left to shift for herself. Relying on
Providence, and without complaining of its decrees, she resolved
to travel to Mecca, in hopes of meeting her husband, and clearing
her defamed character to him, whose opinion alone she valued.
When advanced some days on her journey she entered a city, and
perceived a great crowd of people following the executioner, who
led a young man by a rope tied about his neck. Inquiring the
crime of the culprit, she was informed that he owed a hundred
deenars, which being unable to pay, he was sentenced to be hung,
such being the punishment of insolvent debtors in that city. The
cauzee's wife, moved with compassion, immediately tendered the
sum, being nearly all she had, when the young man was released,
and falling upon his knees before her, vowed to dedicate his life
to her service. She related to him her intention of making the
pilgrimage to Mecca, upon which the young man requested to
accompany and protect her, to which she consented. They set out
on their journey; but had not proceeded many days, when the youth
forgot his obligations, and giving way to impulse, insulted his
benefactress by offering her his love. The unfortunate lady
reasoned with him on the ingratitude of his conduct, and the
youth seemed to be convinced and repentant, but revenge rankled
in his heart. Some days after this they reached the sea-shore,
where the young man perceiving a ship, made a signal to speak
with it, and the master letting down his boat sent it to land;
upon which the young man going on board the vessel, informed the
master that he had for sale a handsome female slave, for whom he
asked a thousand deenars. The master, who had been used to
purchase slaves upon that coast, went on shore, and looking at
the cauzee's wife, paid the money to the wicked young man, who
went his way, and the lady was carried on board the ship,
supposing that her companion had taken the opportunity of easing
her fatigue, by procuring her a passage to some sea-port near
Mecca: but her persecution was not to end here. In the evening
she was insulted by attentions of the master of the vessel, who
being surprised at her coolness, informed her that he had
purchased her as his slave for a thousand deenars. The
unfortunate lady told him that she was a free woman, but this had
no effect on the brutish sailor, who finding tenderness
ineffectual proceeded to force and blows in order to reduce her
to submit to his authority. Her strength was almost exhausted,
when suddenly the ship struck upon a rock, the master was hurried
upon deck, and in a few moments the vessel went to pieces.
Providentially the virtuous wife laying hold of a plank was
wafted to the shore, after being for several hours buffeted by
the waves. Having recovered her senses she walked inland, and
found a pleasant country abounding in fruits and clear streams,
which satisfied her hunger and thirst. On the second day she
arrived at a magnificent city, and on entering it was conducted
to the sultan, who inquiring her story, she informed him that she
was a woman devoted to a religious life, and was proceeding on
the pilgrimage to Mecca, when her vessel was shipwrecked on his
coast, and whether any of the crew had escaped she knew not, as
she had seen none of them since her being cast ashore on a plank;
but as now the hopes of her reaching the sacred house were cut
off, if the sultan would allot her a small hut, and a trifling
pittance for her support, she would spend the remainder of her
days in prayers for the prosperity of himself and his subjects.

The sultan, who was truly devout, and pitied the misfortune of
the lady, gladly acceded to her request, and allotted a pleasant
garden-house near his palace for her residence, at which he often
visited her, and conversed with her on religious topics, to his
great edification and comfort, for she was sensibly pious. Not
long after her arrival, several refractory vassals who had for
years withheld their usual tribute, and against whom the good
sultan, unwilling to shed blood, though his treasury much felt
the defalcation, had not sent a force to compel payment,
unexpectedly sent in their arrears; submissively begged pardon
for their late disobedience, and promised in future to be loyal
in their duty. The sultan, who attributed this fortunate event to
the successful prayers of his virtuous guest, mentioned his
opinion to his courtiers in full divan, and they to their
dependents. As, according to the proverb, the sheep always follow
their leader, so it was in the present instance. All ranks of
people on every emergency flocked to beg the prayers and counsel
of the sultan's favourite devotee; and such was their efficacy,
that her clients every day became more numerous, nor were they
ungrateful; so that in a short time the offerings made to her
amounted in value to an incalculable sum. Her reputation was not
confined to the kingdom of her protector, but spread gradually
abroad through all the countries in the possession of true
believers, who came from all parts of Asia to solicit her
prayers. Her residence was enlarged to a vast extent, in which
she supported great numbers of destitute persons, as well as
entertained the crowds of poor people who came in pilgrimage to
so holy a personage as she was now esteemed. But we must now
return to her pious husband.

The good cauzee having finished the ceremonies of his pilgrimage
at Mecca, where he resided one year, and visited all the holy
spots around, returned to Bagdad: but dreadful was his agony and
grief when informed that his wife had played the harlot, and that
his brother, unable to bear the disgrace of his family, had left
the city, and had not been heard of since. This sad intelligence
had such an effect upon his mind, that he resolved to give up
worldly concerns, and adopt the life of a wandering religious, to
move from place to place, from country to country, and visit the
devotees celebrated for sanctity in each. For two years he
travelled through various kingdoms, and at length hearing of his
wife's fame, though he little supposed the much-talked-of female
saint stood in that relation to himself, he resolved to pay his
respects to so holy a personage. With this view he journeyed
towards the capital of the sultan her protector, hoping to
receive benefit from her pious conversation and prayers.

The cauzee on his way overtook his treacherous brother, who,
repenting of his wicked life, had turned mendicant, and was going
to confess his sins, and ask the prayers for absolution of the
far-famed religious woman. Time and alteration of dress, for they
were both habited as dervishes, caused the brothers not to know
each other. As fellow travellers they entered into conversation;
and finding they were both bound the same way, agreed to continue
their journey together. They had not proceeded many days when
they came up with a driver of camels, who informed them that he
was upon the same errand as themselves, having been guilty of a
horrid crime, the reflection upon which tormented his conscience,
and made life miserable; that he was going to confess his sins to
the pious devotee, and consult her on whatever penance could
atone for his villany, of which he had heartily repented, and
hoped to obtain the mercy of heaven by a sincere reformation of
life. The crime of this wretch was no less than murder; the
circumstances of which we forgot to detail in its proper place.
The cauzee's wife immediately after her expulsion from Bagdad,
and before she had met the young man who sold her for a slave,
had taken shelter in the hut of a camel breeder, whose wife owed
her great obligations, and who received her with true hospitality
and kindness; consoling her in her misfortunes, dressing her
wounds, and insisting on her stay till she should be fully
recovered of the painful effects of her unjust and disgraceful
punishment; and in this she was seconded by the honest husband.
With this humble couple, who had an infant son, she remained some
time, and was recovering her spirits and beauty when the wicked
camel breeder, first mentioned, arrived on a visit to her host;
and being struck with her beauty made love to her, which she
mildly but firmly rejected, informing him that she was a married
woman. Blinded by passion, the wretch pressed his addresses
repeatedly, but in vain; till at length, irritated by refusal, he
changed his love into furious anger, and resolved to revenge his
disappointed lust by her death. With this view he armed himself
with a poniard; and about midnight, when the family were asleep,
stole into the chamber where she reposed, and close by her the
infant son of her generous host. The villain being in the dark
made a random stroke, not knowing of the infant, and instead of
stabbing the object of his revenge, plunged his weapon into the
bosom of the child, who uttered loud screams; upon which the
assassin, fearful of detection, ran away, and escaped from the
house. The cauzee's wife awaking in a fright, alarmed her unhappy
hosts, who, striking a light, came to her assistance; but how can
we describe their agonizing affliction when they beheld their
beloved child expiring, and their unfortunate guest, who had
swooned away, bathed in the infant's blood. From such a scene we
turn away, as the pen is incapable of description. The unhappy
lady at length revived, but their darling boy was gone for ever.
Some days after this tragical event she began her pilgrimage,
and, as above stated, reached the city where she released the
young man from his cruel creditors, and was shortly afterwards
ungratefully sold by him as a slave. But to return to the good
cauzee and his wicked companions.

They had not travelled far when they overtook a young man, who
saluted them, and inquired their course; of which being informed,
he begged to join in company, saying, that he also was going to
pay his respects to the celebrated religious, in hopes that by
her prayers he might obtain pardon of God for a most flagitious
ingratitude; the remorse for which had rendered him a burthen to
himself ever since the commission of the crime. The four pilgrims
pursued their journey, and a few days afterwards overtook the
master of a vessel, who told them he had some time back suffered
shipwreck; since which he had undergone the severest distress,
and was now going to request the aid of the far-famed woman,
whose charities and miraculous prayers had been noised abroad
through all countries. The companions then invited him to join
them, and they proceeded on the pilgrimage together, till at
length they reached the capital of the good sultan who protected
the cauzee's wife.

The five pilgrims having entered the city, repaired immediately
to the abode of the respected devotee; the courts of which were
crowded with petitioners from all parts, so that they could with
difficulty gain admission. Some of her domestics seeing they were
strangers newly arrived, and seemingly fatigued, kindly invited
them, into an apartment, and to repose themselves while they
informed their mistress of their arrival; which having done, they
brought word that she would see them when the crowd was
dispersed, and hear their petitions at her leisure. Refreshments
were then brought in, of which they were desired to partake, and
the pilgrims having make their ablutions, sat down to eat, all
the while admiring and praising the hospitality of their pious
hostess; who, unperceived by them, was examining their persons
and features through the lattice of a balcony, at one end of the
hall. Her heart beat with joyful rapture when she beheld her long
lost husband, whose absence she had never ceased to deplore, but
scarcely expected ever to meet him again; and great was her
surprise to find him in company with his treacherous brother, her
infamous intending assassin, her ungrateful betrayer the young
man, and the master of the vessel to whom he had sold her as a
slave. It was with difficulty she restrained her feelings; but
not choosing to discover herself till she should hear their
adventures, she withdrew into her chamber, and being relieved by
tears prostrated herself on the earth, and offered up
thanksgivings to the protector of the just, who had rewarded her
patience under affliction by succeeding blessings, and at length
restored to her the partner of her heart. Having finished her
devotions, she sent to the sultan requesting him to send her a
confidential officer, who might witness the relations of five
visitors whom she was going to examine. On his arrival she placed
him where he could listen unseen; and covering herself with a
veil, sat down on her stool to receive the pilgrims, who being
admitted, bowed their foreheads to the ground; when requesting
them to arise, she addressed them as follows: "You are welcome,
brethren, to my humble abode, to my counsel and my prayers,
which, by God's mercy, have sometimes relieved the repentant
sinner; but as it is impossible I can give advice without hearing
a case, or pray without knowing the wants of him who entreats me,
you must relate your histories with the strictest truth, for
equivocation, evasion, or concealment, will prevent my being of
any service; and this you may depend upon, that the prayers of a
liar tend only to his own destruction." Having said this, she
ordered the cauzee to remain, but the other four to withdraw; as
she should, to spare their shame before each other, hear their
cases separately. The good cauzee having no sins to confess
related his pilgrimage to Mecca; the supposed infidelity of his
wife; and his consequent resolve to spend his days in visiting
sacred places and holy personages, among whom she stood so
famous, that to hear her edifying conversation, and entreat the
benefit of her prayers for his unhappy wife, was the object of
his having travelled to her sacred abode. When he had finished
his narrative the lady dismissed him to another chamber, and
heard one by one the confessions of his companions; who not
daring to conceal any thing, related their cruel conduct towards
herself, as above-mentioned; but little suspecting that they were
acknowledging their guilt to the intended victim of their evil
passions. After this the cauzee's wife commanded the officer to
conduct all five to the sultan, and inform him of what he had
heard them confess. The sultan, enraged at the wicked behaviour
of the cauzee's brother, the camel-driver, the young man, and the
master of the vessel, condemned them to death; and the
executioner was preparing to put the sentence in force, when the
lady arriving at the presence demanded their pardon; and to his
unspeakable joy discovered herself to her delighted husband. The
sultan complying with her request, dismissed the criminals; but
prevailed on the cauzee to remain at his court, where for the
remainder of his life this upright judge filled the high office
of chief magistrate with honour to himself, and satisfaction to
all who had causes tried before him; while he and his faithful
partner continued striking examples of virtue and conjugal
felicity. The sultan was unbounded in his favour towards them,
and would often pass whole evenings in their company in friendly
conversation, which generally turned upon the vicissitudes of
life, and the goodness of Providence in relieving the sufferings
of the faithful, by divine interposition, at the very instant
when ready to sink under them and overwhelmed with calamity. "I
myself," said the sultan, "am an example of the protection of
heaven, as you, my friends, will learn from my adventures." He
then began as follows.




                   The Sultan's Story of Himself.



Though now seated on a throne, I was not born to such exalted
rank, but am the son of a rich merchant in a country far distant
from this which I now govern. My father brought me up to his own
profession; and by instruction and example encouraged me to be
virtuous, diligent, and honest. Soon after I had attained to the
age of manhood death snatched away this valuable parent, who in
his last moments gave me instructions for my future conduct; but
particularly requested that nothing might ever prevail upon me to
take an oath, though ever so just or necessary to my concerns. I
assured him it would not: soon after which he breathed his last,
leaving me, my mother, and sister in sincere grief for his loss.
After the funeral I examined his property, and found myself in
possession of a vast sum of money, besides an ample stock in
trade, two-thirds of which I immediately paid to my mother and
sister, who retired to a house which they purchased for
themselves. Many weeks had not elapsed when a merchant set up a
claim on my father's estate for a sum of money equal to nearly
the whole that I possessed: I asked him for his bond, but he had
none, yet swore solemnly to the justice of his demand. I had no
doubt of the falsity of his oath, but as I had promised never to
swear, I could not disprove it by mine, and therefore was obliged
to pay the money, which I did entirely from my own share, not
choosing to distress my mother and sister by lessening theirs.
After this, other unjust demands were preferred, and I paid them,
rather than falsify my promise to my father, though by so doing I
became reduced to the most abject poverty, as still I would not
trouble my mother. At length I resolved to quit my native city,
and seek for subsistence in a distant country as clerk to a
merchant, or in any other way that might offer. I accordingly set
out alone, and had travelled some days, when in passing over a
sandy desert I met a venerable looking personage dressed in
white, who kindly accosting me, inquired the object of my
journey: upon which I related my story. The old man blessed me,
highly praised the steadfastness of my adherence to the promise I
had made to a dying father; and said, "My son, be not dismayed,
thy virtuous conduct has been approved by our holy prophet, who
has interceded for thee at the throne of bounty: follow me, and
reap the reward of thy sufferings." I did as he desired; and we,
after some time, reached this city, which was then wholly
depopulated, and even this palace in a state of decay. On our
entrance my venerable guide bade me welcome, saying, "Here heaven
has decreed thee to reign, and thou wilt soon become a powerful
sultan." He then conducted me to the palace, and we descended
from one of the apartments into a vault, where to my astonishment
I beheld vast heaps of gold and silver ingots, large bags of
coins of the same metals, and several rich chests filled with
jewels of inestimable value, of all which he saluted me master. I
was overcome with astonishment; but said, "Of what use is all
this wealth in a depopulated city? and how can I be a sultan
without subjects?" The old man smiled, and said, "Have patience,
my son; this evening a numerous caravan will arrive here composed
of emigrants, who are in search of a settlement, and they will
elect thee their sovereign." His words proved true; the caravan
arrived, when the old man invited them to inhabit the city; his
offer was gladly accepted, and by his direction they declared me
their sultan. My protector remained with me a whole year, during
which he gave me instructions how to govern, and I became what I
am. Heaven has prospered my endeavours to do good: the fame of my
liberality, justice, and clemency soon spread abroad; the city
was soon filled by industrious inhabitants, who repaired the
decayed buildings, and erected new ones. The country round became
well cultivated, and our port was filled with vessels from every
quarter. I shortly after sent for my family, for I had left
behind me a wife and two sons; and you may guess from your own
joy at meeting after long separation what must have been mine on
such an occasion. My venerable patron, at the expiration of the
year, one day thus addressed me: "My son, as my mission is
completed I must now leave you; but be not alarmed, for provided
thou continuest to act as thou hast begun, we shall meet again.
Know that I am the prophet Khizzer, and was sent by heaven to
protect thee. Mayest thou deserve its blessings!" Having said
this he embraced me in his arms, and then vanished, how I know
not, from my sight. For some time I continued rapt in
astonishment and wonder, which at length gave place to
reverential awe and gratitude to heaven; by degrees I recovered
myself, and bowed down with fervent devotion. I have endeavoured
to follow the admonitions of my holy adviser. It is unnecessary
to say more; you see my state and the happiness I enjoy.




                          CONCLUSION.



The sultan of the Indies could not but admire the prodigious and
inexhaustible memory of the sultaness his wife, who had
entertained him so many nights with such a variety of interesting
stories.

A thousand and one nights had passed away in these innocent
amusements, which contributed so much towards removing the
sultan's unhappy prejudice against the fidelity of women. His
temper was softened. He was convinced of the merit and great
wisdom of the sultaness Scheherazade. He remembered with what
courage she had offered to be his wife, without fearing the death
to which she knew she exposed herself, as so many sultanesses had
suffered within her knowledge.

These considerations, and the many other good qualities he knew
her to possess, induced him at last to forgive her. "I see,
lovely Scheherazade," said he, "that you can never be at a loss
for these little stories, which have so long diverted me. You
have appeased my anger. I freely renounce the law I had imposed
on myself. I restore your sex to my favourable opinion, and will
have you to be regarded as the deliverer of the many damsels I
had resolved to sacrifice to my unjust resentment."

The sultaness cast herself at his feet, and embraced them
tenderly with all the marks of the most lively and perfect
gratitude.

The grand vizier was the first who learned this agreeable
intelligence from the sultan's own mouth. It was instantly
carried to the city, towns, and provinces; and gained the sultan,
and the lovely Scheherazade his consort, universal applause, and
the blessings of all the people of the extensive empire of the
Indies.




End of Volume 4.