Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Victoria Woosley and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net


[Illustration]


SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT NO. 1157


NEW YORK, March 5, 1898.

Scientific American Supplement. Vol. XLV., No. 1157.

Scientific American established 1845

Scientific American Supplement, $5 a year.

Scientific American and Supplement, $7 a year.

       *       *       *       *       *


TABLE OF CONTENTS.

                                                              PAGE
I.     ARCHÆOLOGY.--Requirements of Palestine Explorer       18489

II.    BIOGRAPHY.--Emperor William II. of Germany.--An
       interesting biographical account of the German
       Emperor, with his latest portrait.--1 illustration    18486

III.   CIVIL ENGINEERING.--Heat in Great Tunnels             18492

IV.    ECONOMICS.--Causes of Poverty                         18490

V.     ELECTRICITY.--Liquid Rheostats.--By H. S. WEBB        18498

       The Neutral Use of Cables                             18489

VI.    ETHNOLOGY.--The Influence of Scenery upon the
       Character of Man                                      18488

VII.   FORESTRY.--Apparatus for Obtaining the Cubature of
       Trees.--3 illustrations                               18493

VIII.  GYMNASTICS.--A Novel Way of Riding a Bicycle.
       --1 illustration                                      18489

IX.    HYDROGRAPHY.--Influence of Ocean Currents on Climate  18490

X.     LANDSCAPE GARDENING.--Park Making                     18490

XI.    MARINE ENGINEERING.--The Newfoundland and Nova Scotia
       Passenger Steamer "Bruce."--1 illustration            18492

XII.   MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.--Machine Moulding without
       Stripping Plates.--By E. H. MUMFORD.--A full
       description of an ingenious moulding machine.--7
       illustrations                                         18494

XIII.  MEDICINE.--The Progress of Medical Education in the
       United States                                         18499

       Deaths under Anæsthetics                              18499

XIV.   MISCELLANEOUS:

       Engineering Notes                                     18491

       Miscellaneous Notes                                   18491

       Selected Formulæ                                      18491

XV.    NATURAL HISTORY.--Tapirs in the Zoological Garden at
       Breslau.--1 illustration                              18488

XVI.   STEAM ENGINEERING.--An English Steam Fire Engine.
       --1 illustration                                      18493

XVII.  TRAVEL AND EXPLORATION.--My Recent Journey from the
       Nile to Suakim.--By FREDERIC VILLIERS.--The advance
       to Khartoum.--An important account of the recent
       travels of the celebrated war correspondent.          18486

XVIII. TECHNOLOGY.--Artificial India Rubber.--This article
       describes some important experiments which have been
       made in which India rubber substitutes have been
       produced from oil of turpentine                       18495

       Deep and Frosted Etching on Glass                     18496

       The Koppel Electric Locomotives.--This article
       describes a system of electric trolley traction for
       narrow gage railroads.--7 illustrations               18497

       Slate and its Applications.--This article details
       some of the various uses to which slate is put in the
       arts, with a view of slate store vats for breweries.  18496

       Birthplace of the Oilcloth Industry.                  18496

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: LATEST PORTRAIT OF WILLIAM II. OF GERMANY]

EMPEROR WILLIAM II. OF GERMANY.


Since William II. of Germany ascended the throne as German Emperor and
King of Prussia, on June 15, 1888, the eyes of Europe have been fixed
on him. He has always been rather an unknown quantity, and he is
regarded by the powers as an _enfant terrible_. The press of the world
delights in showing up his weak points, and the "war lord" undoubtedly
has them, but, at the same time, he has qualities which are to be
admired and which make him conspicuous among the rulers of Europe.

He is popular in Germany, and it is not surprising, for, in spite of
being autocratic to the last degree, he is honest, courageous,
ambitious, hard working, and, withal, a thorough German, being
intensely patriotic. Indeed, if the people of the Fatherland had the
right to vote for a sovereign, they would undoubtedly choose the
present constitutional ruler, for, while the virtues we have named may
seem commonplace, they are not so when embodied in an emperor. One
thing which places William at a disadvantage is his excessive
frankness, which is, in him, almost a fault, for if he couched his
utterances in courtly or diplomatic phrases, they would pass
unchallenged, instead of being cited to ridicule him. His mistakes
have largely resulted from his impulsive nature coupled with
chauvinism, which is, perhaps, justifiable, or, at least, excusable,
in a ruler.

Since the time when William was a child he evidenced a strong desire
to become acquainted with the details of the office to which his lofty
birth entitled him. It is doubtful if any king since the time of
Frederick the Great has studied the routine of the public offices and
has made such practical inspections of industries of all kinds;
indeed, there is hardly a man in Germany who has more general
knowledge of the material development of the country.

In the army he has worked his way up like any other officer and has a
firm grasp on all the multifarious details of the military
establishment of the great country. He believes in militarism, or in
force to use a more common expression, but in this he is right, for it
has taken two hundred and fifty years to bring Prussia to the position
she now holds, and what she has gained at the point of the sword must
be retained in the same way. The immense sacrifices which the people
make to support the army and navy are deemed necessary for
self-preservation, and with France on one side and Russia on the
other, there really seems to be ample excuse for it. To-day the German
army is as ready as in 1870, when Von Moltke walked down the Unter den
Linden, the day after hostilities were declared, looking in the shop
windows.

No ruler, except possibly Peter the Great, ever gave so many _ex
cathedra_ opinions on so many different subjects in the same length of
time, and of course it cannot be supposed that he has not made
mistakes, but it shows that it is only by prodigious industry that he
has been able to gather the materials on which these utterances are
based. He is indeed the "first servant of the state," and long before
his court or indeed many of the housemaids of Berlin are awake, he is
up and attending to affairs of all kinds.

He is a great traveler, and knows Europe from the North Cape to the
Golden Horn; and while flying across country in his comfortable
vestibuled train, he dispatches business and acquires an excellent
idea of the country, and no traveler can speak more intelligently of
the countries through which he has traveled, and this information is
brought out with good effect in his excellent after-dinner speeches.

