October. 1888, in Spain, at the Valladolid electric-light station a
carpenter took hold of a wire of an alternating-current generator and
could not let go. An attendant tried to pull the man off the wire and
both were killed by the currents.

November, 1888, E.A. Richardson, employed at the Consett iron works, in
the county of Durnham, England, received a shock from an arc-light
plant, from the effects of which he died two hours later.

December, 1888, in Turin, Italy, an employé of an electric-light company
was killed by alternating currents.

June, 1889, John Connelly, an employé of the Siemens Electric-Light
Company, near London, was killed by an alternating current of 1,000
volts.

Speaking of recent cases here, Mr. Heinrichs said:

"It is to be regretted that some of our electrical experts of so-called
standing, not only assist in keeping the facts from the public, but tell
when under oath only half the truth, as was said a short time ago in a
conservative electrical publication in London. One of these experts had
to admit in the Kemmler investigations that all of his knowledge as to
the harmless nature of the Westinghouse current was obtained by him from
observations made upon himself and friends receiving alternating
currents from an electro-medical apparatus. And the various
susceptibilities of the different living organisms to electric
influences he judged from the manner in which some of his friends
dropped the metal handles. Had this expert made any calculations of the
electrical energy expended in these trivial experiments he would have
found that the whole electrical energy expended upon the living organism
of any of his friends was below one-fifty thousandth of an electrical
horse-power per second, and the difference of susceptibilities of any of
his friends was infinitesimal, and the difference of the electrical
energy between the minimum and maximum charges less than one-two hundred
thousandths of an electrical horse-power. It is a well-established fact
that alternating currents of an electrical energy of one-four-thousandth
part of an electrical horse-power per second, if expended upon the vital
organs, the nerves and muscles, of any human being, will cause
instantaneous death in every case."--_New York Commercial Advertiser_.

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: THE ILLUSTRATIONS]


[_Contributors are requested to send with their drawings full and
adequate descriptions of the buildings, including a statement of cost_.]


HOUSE OF G.M. SMITH, ESQ., PROVIDENCE, R.I. MESSRS. STOKE, CARPENTER &
WILLSON, ARCHITECTS, PROVIDENCE, R.I.

[Gelatine Print issued only with the Imperial and International
Editions.]


THE CATHEDRAL OF ST. MACHAR, ABERDEEN.[5]

"In the bustling manufacturing town which has lately become, and is
likely for some time to remain, the extreme northern point of our great
system of railway communication, a venerable cathedral, surrounded by
tree, with a pleasant river sweeping past it, is scarcely an expected
sight. But the two divisions of Aberdeen the old and the new town--are
as unlike each other as Canterbury and Manchester. The old town, or
'Alton,' as it is locally termed, is not the most ancient part of a city
of different periods, around which its modern streets and squares have
ramified. It is a distinct hamlet or village, at some distance from the
city, and edged away in privacy apart from the great thoroughfares
connecting the manufacturing centre with other districts of the country.
Its houses are venerable, standing generally in ancient gardens; and
save that the beauty and tranquillity of the spot have led to the
erection of a few pleasant modern villas, dotting it here and there,
whoever treads the one echoing street of the Alton for the first time,
feels that two centuries must have brought very little external change
to the objects by which he is surrounded. In this pristine place, the
short-spiked steeples, and the broad-slated roof of the old cathedral of
St. Machar may be seen rising over a cluster of fine old trees which top
the sloping bank of the winding Don, from the opposite shore of which
the whole scene--comprehending the river, the sloping banks, the trees,
and the gray old church--makes a very perfect landscape, rather English
than Scottish in its aspect.

"A near approach develops something very peculiar in the character of
this edifice. It bears throughout unmistakable marks of age, but none of
decay. It is gray with the weather-wearing of centuries, but it displays
none of the mouldering vestiges of Time's decaying fingers; nor yet has
it that prim air of good keeping which shows, in treasured antiquities,
that careful hands have sedulously restored each feature that age may
have injured. It is clear that the completeness of detail--the clean
outlines, the hard, unworn surfaces--are characteristics of innate
strength, and connect themselves with the causes of a certain northern
sternness and rigidity in the general architectural designs.

"The secret of all these peculiarities is to be found in the nature of
the material, which is granite--the same that has handed down to us,
through thousands of years, the cold, stony eyes of the sphynx,
precisely as the chisel last touched them--and retains, to the wonder
of the Londoners, the glittering lustre of the polished cheeks of
Rameses. The stern nature of the primitive rock--obdurate alike to the
chisel and to time--has entirely governed the character of the
architecture; and, while it has precluded lightness and decoration, has
given opportunities for a certain gloomy dignity. About the porch, one
or two niches and other small details, have been decorated; but as if
the artist had abandoned the task of chiselling his obdurate materials
as a vain one, ornament goes no farther, and all the architectural
effects are the fruit of bold design. Such, for instance, is the great
west window--not mullioned, but divided by long massive stone shafts
into seven arched compartments; such, too, is the low-browed doorway
beneath, with its heavy semicircular arch. The upper tier of
windows--here called _storm_ windows, perhaps as a corruption of
_dormer_--are the plain, unmoulded arch, such as one sometimes sees it
in unadorned buildings of the earlier Norman period. Indeed, though the
building dates from the second age of the Pointed style, it associates
itself in some of its features, very closely with the relics of the
Norman age, especially in the short, massive round pillars which support
the clerestory. The roof, with its carving, gilding, and bright heraldic
colors, is in thorough contrast with the rest of the architecture, and
the eye gratefully relieves itself from the gloom below, by wandering
over its quaint devices and gaudy hues. It is divided into three
longitudinal departments, panelled with richly-carved oak; and at each
intersection of the divisions of the compartments with the cross-beams,
there is emblazoned a shield armorial, with an inscription.

"It is an uncommon thing to find, as in this instance we do, the nave
only of a church remaining, for the chancel was generally the part first
erected, and sometimes the only part. The remains of the central and
eastern portions of St. Machar's tell how the western compartment braved
the causes of destruction which to them had been fatal: they were built
of freestone. Incrusted, as it were, in the eastern wall, are the
clustered freestone pillars, with richly-flowered capitals, which of old
supported the central square tower; and on either side are the vestiges
of the transept, with the remains of the richly-sculptured tombs,
represented in the accompanying plate, embedded in the wall. In
Slezer's, and some other representations of this building in the
seventeenth century, the tower--a simple square mass, with a
roof--appears to have been still standing, but the choir had
disappeared."


MONUMENT IN THE SOUTH TRANSEPT OF THE CATHEDRAL, ABERDEEN, SCOTLAND.


THE HOTEL DE SOTO, SAVANNAH, GA. MR. WM. GIBBONS PRESTON, ARCHITECT,
BOSTON, MASS.

This hotel, which has just been completed, occupies a whole square in
the heart of the city, and has a frontage of 300 feet on Liberty Street
and 200 feet on Bull Street. It forms two sides of the square, the
two-story kitchen and servants' wing forming the third side. The climate
renders it desirable to have it freely open and exposed to the cool
southeast winds which blow refreshingly up from the bay, and, as a
winter resort, a southeast exposure of nearly half the rooms makes them
sunny and dry. The building is four, five and six stories in height, and
a flat roof, 50 x 70 on the highest portion, gives a fine view down the
bay. A "solarium" is erected on this roof, to contain a tropical garden
or to be used for dancing. The "parade" or garden, upon which all the
southeast windows look, has been beautifully laid out, and there is not
a dark room or a "back room" in the building.

A "rotunda" with glass roof at the rear of hall, first story, is
intended as a lounging-room for ladies and gentlemen, and a veranda 35
feet in width in front opens upon Bull Street. Many of the rooms open
upon covered verandas on the second, third and fourth stories. The
dining-room is 50 x 120 feet, open to the air on three sides. The
materials are local brick for the lower portions, and buff Perth Amboy
brick and terra-cotta above. It contains about 300 rooms, and will cost,
completed, about half a million. It is, except the Ponce de Leon, the
largest hotel in the South. Special arrangements have been made for
introducing large volumes of warmed or cooled air into the halls and
corridors. The contractors are Mr. T. Lewman & Co. The Whittier Machine
Co. did the elevator, heating and laundry work. The Brush system of
electric lighting has been introduced throughout. L. Haberstroh & Son
have decorated the walls and ceilings, making a special feature of the
dining-room. Ground was broken just a year ago, and the house was opened
for guests on New Year's day.


MEMORIAL CHURCH OF THE ANGELS, LOS ANGELES, CAL. MR. ERNEST A. COXHEAD,
ARCHITECT, LOS ANGELES, CAL.

This church which has lately been finished has cost about $25,000. The
inside walls are finished in brick and stone.


ST. AUGUSTINE'S ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH BUILDINGS, BROOKLYN, N.Y. MESSRS.
PARFITT BROS., ARCHITECTS, BROOKLYN, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Additional Illustrations in the International Edition.]


CHATEAU DE JOSSELIN, MORBIHAN, FRANCE.--FACADE ON THE COUR D'HONNEUR.

[Gelatine Plate.]


AN INTERIOR IN THE CHATEAU DE JOSSELIN, MORBIHAN, FRANCE.

[Gelatine Plate.]


TWO VIEWS OF THE HOUSE OF MRS. CONSINO, SANTIAGO, CHILI.


DESIGN FOR CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD, GOSPEL OAK, LONDON, N.W., ENG.
MR. F. PHILLIPS FIGGIS, ARCHITECT.


BUTLER'S WOOD, CHISLEHURST, ENG. MR. ERNEST NEWTON, ARCHITECT.


HOUSE AT PENNSYLVANIA, EXETER, ENG. MR. JAMES CROCKER, F.R.I.B.A.,
ARCHITECT, EXETER, ENG.

This house has recently been completed for Mr. E.C. Philp, and stands in
one of the best suburbs of the city. The materials employed are
Wellington red brick for the facings above plinth, with Broseley tiles
for the roofs, the few stone dressings being of Ham Hill. The walling up
to the plinth level is of Westleigh limestone, as are also the piers
surrounding the site, with wrought-iron railing between same. The
principal chimney-pieces in the house have been made to special design,
and are chiefly executed in American walnut and pitch-pine. The
dining-room is panelled the full height up to a richly-modelled frieze
in plaster, all to design, and the ceiling of this apartment is also
panelled.


DESIGN FOR BOARD SCHOOLS. MR. GEORGE W. WEBB, A.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT,
READING, ENG.

This design was prepared in competition for schools near London, but,
owing to a mistake in the date for sending in designs, it was too late
for the competition. The plan is on the central hall system for boys and
girls, the hall being 110 feet by 54 feet, and top-lighted. Fourteen
class-rooms, each 30 feet by 20 feet, are provided, each divided from
the central hall by movable glass screens. The infants' school, lodge,
etc., form detached buildings. The total cost was estimated at £16,000.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: It should always be kept in mind that these illustrations
from the "_Baronial and Ecclesiastical Antiquities of Scotland_," by
R.W. Billings, are republished very largely for the sake of giving
instruction in one manner of the rendering of architectural drawings.]

       *       *       *       *       *


METHODS OF REDUCING THE FIRE LOSS.[6]


[Illustration: OLD DOORWAY AT NEWPORT R.I.]

The liability to injury by fire is a hazard inherent to all buildings,
and this danger is a constant menace whose threatening destruction of
values imposes upon the owner a persistent consideration, which endures
as long as the building stands.

As every method of construction, the various mechanical processes and
the stock in each stage of manufacture bears some relation to the
fire-hazard as a supporter or possible originator of combustion, the
engineer whose duties pertain to these matters must necessarily also
consider the question of the fire-hazard in the important phase of
prevention, as well as the direct application of those engineering
problems required in the design and installation of fire apparatus.

The fire-loss is a most oppressive tax, much of which can be abated by
the application of well-established means of prevention. In a practical
sense, certain fires are to be considered as unpreventable, being caused
by exposure to fires in other burning buildings, but there are very few
fires whose destructive results might not have been prevented by the
exercise of precautions entirely feasible in their nature.

These several topics will be considered in reference to the reduction of
the fire-loss on isolated manufacturing property, because the exercise
of every possible precaution may not avail anything if the property is
liable to be imperilled by fires originating in adjacent buildings.


SUPERVISION.

The prevention of fires must in greater measure proceed from the
efficiency of the supervision exercised over the property in the order
of the buildings, heed to probable causes of fire, and attention to the
fire-apparatus.

In a manufactory there is a wide distinction to be made between to-day's
dirt and yesterday's dirt; valuable results may be obtained by an
inspection of the whole property made on Saturday afternoon by two men,
such as foremen or overseers of rooms, who may be appointed to serve
four weeks, their assignment terminating on alternate fortnights. The
report should be made on a sheet of paper, divided so as to include all
features of order and fire-apparatus in every room.

As property should be watched during the day Sunday, as well as at
night, it is under the care of watchmen about five-eighths of the time,
and the measure of this responsibility should be clearly understood.

The patrol should be recorded on a watchman's clock, not merely to show
that he was not unfaithful, but also to prove that he was faithful.

Especially in districts liable to disorder and lawlessness, it is
desirable to have a district-messenger signal-box in the works, visited
once an hour, with the understanding that if the call is not made within
fifteen minutes of the appointed time, it will be assumed that there is
trouble and help sent at once.

Safety requires that the lanterns should be securely guarded; that the
handle and sustaining parts of the lantern be connected together by
rivets or by locking the metals together without relying on soldered
joints; and thirdly, that the lamp should be put in from above, and
never from the bottom.


CONSTRUCTION.

In its design, a mill for any standard line of manufacture is not a
building whose arrangements and proportions are fixed upon at the whim
of the owner, but it must conform to certain conditions of dimensions,
stability, light and application of power to satisfy the requirements
essential for furnishing every advantage necessary for producing the
desired results at the lowest cost.

The destructive consequences attending fire in such buildings, whose
iron and masonry construction is called fireproof, show that some other
form of construction is necessary to obtain the desired results of
minimizing the annual cost of the maintenance of the invested capital,
as represented by insurance, depreciation, interest and taxation. There
is little incentive for entering into unusual expenses in the
construction of a manufacturing building for the purpose of increasing
its resistance to fire, unless the additional interest on such increase
in the investment is to be met by a corresponding reduction in the
annual cost of the fire-hazard. In addition to these questions,
involving the annual maintenance of the plant, the increase in the
expense of the building above a certain point may prove poor management,
by locking up capital for too long a time, and may tend to prevent the
improvements in arrangement and construction which are necessary for the
most advantageous manufacturing.

The method of mill building known as slow-burning construction combines
the advantages of low initial cost and great resistance to destruction
by fire, the final result being that the manufacturing is housed at the
minimum annual cost. The fundamental principle of such construction is
to mass the material in such a way that there shall not be any concealed
spaces about the structure, and that the number of projections of
timbers, which are more easily ignited than the flat surfaces, shall be
reduced as far as possible; that iron portions of the structure shall
not be exposed to the heat of any fire in the contents of the building,
and furthermore, that the isolation of the various portions, both in
respect to that of one building to another and of the various rooms and
stories of the same building, shall be as complete as is feasible.

The most important feature is that of the mill floors, which should be
laid on beams, generally of Southern pine, 12 x 14 inches, or two inches
larger when required by unusual loads or longer span than twenty-two
feet. These beams are placed from eight to ten feet apart between
centres.

At the columns, beams rest on cast-iron caps.

The support from one column to the next should be made by cast-iron
pintles, preferably those whose section is in the form of a Greek cross,
as that presents advantages in the way of securely joining them to the
timber beams. At the top of the pintle, a cast-iron plate should support
the base of the column above.

Timber columns are preferred to those of iron, unless the load is
greater than can be sustained by timber.

The floor planks for this type of floor are generally made of spruce
plank from three to four inches in thickness, grooved on both edges and
joined together by hardwood splines. These floor-planks should be two
bays in length, breaking joints at least every four feet.

Above this the top floor, of 1-1/4 or 1-1/2 inch hardwood, is laid, and
in some instances the resistance of the floor to fire is greatly
increased by laying a coat of plaster on the floor-plank before the top
flooring is built. But the general method of increasing the resistance
of the floor to fire is by covering the floor and beams on the under
side with plaster laid on wire-lathing.

Such a mill floor and columns, while possessing in a very high degree
features which offer resistance to the fire, being weakened by the
temperature only to a slight extent as they are slowly burned away under
the exposure to a very severe fire, also possess the merit of great
economy, both as regards the low price of construction, and in that the
floor is thinner in comparison with joisted floors of equal strength,
saving in this respect, for every floor in a building, about ten inches
in height of wall, stairs, belting, steam-pipes, and all vertical
connections reaching from floor to floor, a saving which amounts to
considerable in the total cost of a building.

The division of mills into various portions by means of fire-walls is
frequently not so efficient as assumed, by reason of the lack of
fire-doors to satisfactorily fulfil the purpose of resisting fire. The
best form of fire-door is that made of two thicknesses of matched
boards, placed at right angles to each other and nailed together, being
covered on the outside with tin, securely locked together and held to
the door by numerous hanging-strips. The door should be secured to the
hangers by means of bolts, and not screws, and the rail upon which it
runs strongly bolted to the wall. When closed, such a door should fit
into a jamb and be securely held in this manner against the wall. Such
doors are frequently hung upon an inclined track, and, by some
application of highly fusible solder at the catch, are so arranged that
they will be closed by the heat of a fire, if not closed by hand.

In this treatment of the arrangement of buildings to resist fire,
consideration has not been given to the cost of land, which is, of
itself, an important factor in determining what arrangement will be the
most expedient for an establishment. Where land is expensive, or there
are limitations in the space suitable for building, it is frequently
necessary to build mills and shops higher than would be warranted by
good judgment under other conditions; but where circumstances will
permit it, the one-story mill has been very successful, not merely in
immunity from fire, and very low cost per square foot of floor, but also
in the advantages of manufacturing, particularly in regard to cost of
supervision and movement of the stock in process of manufacture. These
are questions which must be determined, not merely in regard to the
various processes of manufacture, but the individual needs of each
concern; the position of the fire-risk in the matter being that the
hazard of a building increases very rapidly with its height, and to some
extent with its area.

The extension of one-story buildings over too large an area will not be
commended, and certainly, as regards the question of fire, it has a
tendency to place too large a property in direct exposure to a very wide
hazard.

Some textile mills have been built in the form of the block letter U,
this form having been decided upon as giving the conditions of lowest
resultant cost. One wing, two stories in height, contains weaving; the
other wing, three stories in height, contains carding and spinning,
while the engine is placed in the connecting building. The pickers and
the boilers are in outside buildings, so placed that they will not
interfere with future extensions of the building into the form of the
block letter H.


FIRE APPARATUS.

All methods for the prevention of fires fall so far short of the ideal
of immunity that there is a necessity for fire-apparatus. The principle
of the defence of a manufactory against fire is that of self-protection,
by making the installation and management of the fire-apparatus equal to
the progress of any fire which can possibly occur.

Fire-apparatus should be kept in service as well as in order. It is no
exception to any other machinery, in that practice is essential to
obtain any efficient results.

The practical results of private fire-organizations, where fire has
occurred, have been very marked; and systematic and skilful work has
been the rule, in place of the needless confusion and liability to
breakage of the apparatus, which almost inevitably occurs in the lack of
such organization.

The details differ with the arrangements and administration of every
mill; but the general policy of definitely assigning persons to the
positions for which they are best adapted, and where it is presumed they
could be most useful, and to practice them in such work, is a rule which
is common to all.

A great deal of fire-apparatus is destroyed by freezing water during the
winter months, and therefore a special inspection of all such apparatus
should be made late in the autumn, when the water should be drained from
all portions of the system where there is liability of freezing, and all
hydrants and valves should be well oiled, preferably with mineral oil.
The hazard from a hydrant or other portion of the apparatus broken by
frost, does not lie so much in the probability that disadvantage may
result from the disuse of one element of the plant, as in the liability
that such a breakage may interfere with the whole system and render it
inoperative.

Buckets of water are the most effective fire-apparatus. They should be
kept full, and distributed in liberal profusion in the various rooms of
a mill, being placed on shelves or hung on hooks, as circumstances may
require. In order to assist in keeping them for fire purposes only, they
should be unlike other pails used about the premises, and in some
instances each pail and the wall or column behind its position bears the
same number.

Automatic-sprinklers have proved to be a most valuable form of
fire-apparatus in operating with great efficiency at fires where their
action was unaided by other fire-apparatus, particularly at night. In
mill fires the average loss for an experience of twelve years shows that
in those fires where automatic-sprinklers formed a part of the apparatus
operating upon the fire, the average loss amounted to only
one-nineteenth of the average of all other losses. If the difference
between these two averages represents the amount saved by the operation
of automatic-sprinklers, then the total damage from the number of fires
to which automatic-sprinklers are accredited, as forming a portion of
the apparatus, has been reduced six and a quarter million dollars by the
operation of this valuable device.

Although there have been numerous patents granted to inventors of
automatic-sprinklers since the early part of the present century, yet
their practical use and introduction has been subsequent to the
invention of the sealed automatic-sprinkler by Henry S. Parmelee of New
Haven, Ct., about twelve years ago. This device being the first, and for
many years the only automatic-sprinkler manufactured and sold, and
actually performing service over accidental fires, to him belongs the
distinction of being the pioneer, and practically the originator, of the
vast work done by automatic-sprinklers in reducing destruction of
property by fire.

Although nearly or quite 200,000 Parmelee automatic-sprinklers have been
installed, their manufacture has been supplanted by other forms; and the
total number of automatic-sprinklers in position at the present time
must be about 2,000,000.

When automatic-sprinklers were first introduced there were many
apprehensions that leakage, and also excessive water discharged upon
small fires, would be sources of damage. In England this opinion found
expression in increased insurance rates in buildings where
automatic-sprinklers were installed.

The logic of figures shows that this liability to damage is merely
nominal in the case of well-constructed sprinklers. An association of
underwriters who have given careful attention to the subject obtained
the facts that from the automatic-sprinklers installed in some
$500,000,000 worth of property insured by them, the average damage from
all causes, except fire, was $2.56 per plant per annum.

Although automatic-sprinklers have proved to be so reliable and
effective, yet, in order to provide for all possible contingencies,
their introduction should not displace other forms of fire-apparatus,
particularly stand-pipes in the stairway towers, with hydrants at each
story. The hose at these hydrants should be festooned on a row of pins,
or doubled on some of the reels made especially for such purposes.
Stand-pipes are not recommended to be placed in rooms or on
fire-escapes; and inside hydrants should not be attached to the vertical
pipes supplying automatic-sprinklers.

Fire-pumps are generally too small for the work required of them, 500
gallons per minute being the minimum capacity recommended. For a
five-story mill there should be an allowance of 250 gallons per minute
for an effective stream through a 1-1/8-inch nozzle, and for lower
buildings the estimate should rarely be less than 200 gallons for each
stream.

Contrary to the general assumption, a ring nozzle is not so efficient as
a smooth nozzle, the relative amount of discharge of ring and smooth
nozzles of the same diameter being as three is to four. For stand-pipes
7/8-inch nozzles are recommended, but for yard hydrant service the
diameter should never be less than one inch, and 1-1/8 inches generally
fulfils the conditions of best service.

The yard hydrants should be placed at a distance of fifty feet from
buildings, and covered with a house which should also contain hose,
axes, bars, nozzles and spanners.

Water-mains about a mill-yard should be of ample capacity not to cause
an excessive loss by friction, their diameter being based upon a limit
of velocity of ten feet per second for the maximum delivery.


RESULTS.

These methods of supervision, building and equipment do not refer to any
ideality, but to measures which have been widely carried into effect for
the purpose of reducing the fire-loss; the result of such action being
to diminish the cost of insuring industrial property engaged in such
normally hazardous processes as textile manufacture and other
industries, down to a yearly cost of less than one-fifth of one per
cent. This has been accomplished by the consideration of sources of
danger and their abatement, and by a course which has been in line with
sound engineering principles, and also practical methods of manufacture;
and it has thus been proved that it is cheaper to prevent a fire than to
sustain a loss.

There has been no attempt made to credit individuals with their share in
these features of mill development. They have been the outgrowth of a
continual profiting by experience, adopting some features and modifying
others. The concurrent action of the large number of minds engaged on
the same problem has led to duplication of methods; but the whole
progress has been a matter of slow, steady growth, advancing by hairs'
breadths, as the result of persistent efforts to adapt means to ends in
the endeavor to reduce the cost of manufacture.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 6: Abstract of a paper by Mr. C.J.H. Woodbury, read before the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers.]

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: SOCIETIES]

THE NEWARK ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH-CLUB.


After a preliminary meeting held for permanent organization December 14,
1889, a constitution and by-laws were adopted, and the following
officers elected: _President_, W. Frank Bowers; _Vice-President_, J.C.
Swinnerton; _Secretary_, H.A. Hickok; _Treasurer_, W.C. Hudson. _The
Executive Committee_ consists of F.S. Sutton, A.E. Hudson, W.G. Smith,
L.A. Virtue and E.K. Taylor, together with the officers. It is intended,
in addition to the usual monthly competitions, to make a special feature
of regular class-work throughout the year, this will consist of courses
in constructional work, free-hand drawing, water-color work, plumbing,
architectural history, etc. The courses will be under the direction of
specialists in the various branches who are club-members. Applications
for membership will be received by the Secretary, whose address is 762
Broad Street, Newark. The Club expect to have permanent quarters soon,
which will be open every evening to members.

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: COMMUNICATIONS]

[_The editors cannot pay attention to demands of correspondents who
forget to give their names and addresses as guaranty of good faith; nor
do they hold themselves responsible for opinions expressed by their
correspondents_.]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN ARCHITECT AND CLIENT.


ALBANY, N.Y., December 26, 1889.

TO THE EDITORS OF THE AMERICAN ARCHITECT:

_Dear Sirs_,--As the services which an architect is supposed to render
his client and the compensation for same have been the subject of
considerable loss to us through misunderstanding, we have prepared for
use the enclosed proposition, which covers most cases in our general
practice. In work of such a nature as can't be covered by this
proposition, we prepare one specially suited to the occasion, but in all
cases insist on a written agreement which we consider is fair to both
parties. Should you see in this proposition anything of benefit to the
profession, you are at liberty to use same.

Yours truly, FULLER & WHEELER.

OFFICE OF FULLER & WHEELER, ARCHITECTS,
No. 86 STATE STREET, ALBANY, N.Y., ---- 189 .


PROPOSITION.

Mr.----

We will prepare for you the Preliminary Sketches, General Drawings,
Details and Specifications for proposed----

to be erected at----

for 3-1/2 per cent on the actual cost of same, which is to be determined
by the amount of Mason, Carpenter, Roofer, Plumber, Stone-cutting,
Heating, Ventilating, Iron-workers, Mantel and Elevator Contracts,
including all extras and deductions. In connection with Heating,
Ventilating and Elevator, we will either select the apparatus and
approve the specifications as submitted by the dealers, or prepare plans
and specifications for contractors to estimate on, according to the
character of the work in contemplation, and as in our judgment will
secure the best advantage to you. The cost of hardware, mantel facings,
hearths, back linings, metal bands, electric work and decorations are
also to be included in the total cost of said building, but we are not
required to perform more than our customary work in connection with the
last mentioned items, which is either to select them from manufacturers'
stock or have submitted to us samples, sketches and specifications from
which a selection is made. Any other work, not mentioned above, that we
may be called upon to perform will be charged for at the same rates.


SUPERVISION.

We agree to professionally supervise work constructed from our plans,
for an additional 1-1/2 per cent, or 5 per cent in all, where the work
is in the city, and inspect work out of city at the same rate per cent,
visits not to exceed 2 per month. In any case where a Clerk-of-Works is
required, either on account of the magnitude of the job, or the
inefficiency or carelessness of the contractors, the cost of same is to
be paid by you in addition to our compensation for supervision or
inspection, and said Clerk is to be approved by us.

We do not agree to be responsible for the acts of the Clerk-of-Works, or
for the negligence or violations of contracts by the contractors any
further than we can reasonably detect at the time of our visits of
supervision or inspection; but such negligence or violations of
contracts, as we detect, we will have corrected, so far as the power
vested in us will permit and as speedily as possible.

You are at all times to consult with us about desired changes or
additions to the work; to order all such changes through us; and to
notify us in regard to any work done or material used that you consider
is a violation of the contract.

No allowance from our percentage will be made for drawings contracted
for and not furnished, except upon a refusal by us to furnish such as
may be necessary.

The supervision and inspection contemplated by this agreement, is such
as is calculated to and ordinarily will secure the furnishing of
materials of the kind and quality required by the contract, and the
performance of the work in accordance with the plans and specifications,
and in a good, workmanlike and substantial manner.


CERTIFICATES.

Where the work is under our supervision, or inspection, we will issue
certificates of indebtedness to the contractors, as per terms of
contract. The final certificate being an adjustment of the contract and
extras, and also an expression of judgment on our part that the work has
been carried out according to the general drawings and specifications
and contracts by the contractors, but is not to form a legal obligation
on our part.

If the building is not erected from said plans, the charges, instead of
being based on the actual cost, will be based on the approximate cost,
which is hereby estimated at $----, although the last-mentioned sum is
not guaranteed to be the actual cost of said building. Should the actual
cost exceed the approximate cost, we will make the necessary changes in
the plans, so as to reduce the cost, should you so desire, without extra
charge. Changes made in plans from other causes, charged for according
to time consumed.

Travelling expenses and other necessary disbursements in addition to
fee for services.


PAYMENTS.

Payments shall be made as follows: Upon completion of the preliminary
sketches, 1 per cent of estimated cost; upon completion of the general
drawings and specifications, an additional 1-1/2 per cent of estimated
cost; upon completion of details an additional 1 per cent of estimated
cost; and upon completion of the work, the charge for supervision or
inspection. At that time, also, any differences between the percentage
upon the estimated and actual cost is to be settled, and any deficiency
is to be paid or excess credited.

Travelling expenses and other necessary disbursements are payable when
incurred.

In case contracts are not entered into for the work within six months
after the drawings are ready for contractors to estimate, payment shall
be made for the work done at the rates herein before specified, computed
upon the estimated cost. Provided, however, that if at any subsequent
time the plans and specifications prepared by us, are used and the
actual cost exceeds the estimated cost, compensation upon such excesses,
shall be made at the rates aforesaid.


REMARKS.

Respectfully yours,

Accepted, ---- 189

       *       *       *       *       *


INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS IN NEW YORK.

NEW YORK, N.Y., December 22, 1889.

TO THE EDITORS OF THE AMERICAN ARCHITECT:--

