And all the other dandelion-children who had sat on the stem that day
went dancing about, not knowing what they wanted. They played in the
fields and never thought of anything else till one day the rain came
and wet their wings and beat them down among the meadows just where
they happened to be. But it was very comfortable in the deep grass,
and so they just went to sleep too.

When they woke again, they all had roots and little leaves, and deep
in their hearts the buds of flowers. For they had grown up now, and
they were plants. At first they were all very small, but the sunshine
gradually made them bigger and bigger and drew out the flowers folded
in their hearts.

Then the one who had chosen the beautiful garden for his home proudly
opened his first yellow flower and looked round to see what the other
flowers thought of that.

But alas! he did not know how soon his pride was to have a fall. For
the gardener came that way and stopped before him. "Drat these weeds!"
said he. "How came this here?'" Then, whipping out his knife, he
stooped down, rooted up the poor dandelion, and threw it among a heap
of weeds which were waiting to be wheeled away!

The one who had chosen the roadside bank fared no better, for scarcely
had she opened her yellow flowers for everyone to see when a donkey
came along. "Here's a juicy mouthful!" said he, and he stopped and ate
her up--flowers, leaves, and all!

The flower-pot on the window-sill which the third dandelion-child had
made her home was taken inside one day, just when her flowers were
ready to open.

[Illustration:]

"I must throw away this nasty weed," said a voice, "before I plant my
seeds." Then some little round, black, ugly seeds were laid down
carefully, while the dandelion was rooted up and flung away into a
back yard down below.

This is a sad story, you see, but it is perfectly true.

The others who had skipped about the meadows grew among long grass
now, which nearly choked them, and completely hid them from the sun.
And when June came and the hay was cut, they too were cut and crushed
before they had had any flowers at all.

But away in a corner, by a hedge--hidden from all eyes and sheltered
from cold winds--the dandelion-child who had not wanted to go into the
world grew stronger and more beautiful every day. She knew nothing
about fine gardens or admiring eyes--and she cared nothing. All she
knew was that the sun looked down on her with all his brightness, and
that the great blue sky into which she was always gazing was wide
enough and fair enough for her.

E.D.


Conceit Bowled Out!

[Illustration:]

    He was a clever cricketer,
      And very proud of that;
    Conceitedly one afternoon
      He took his cricket bat.
    But when he at the wicket saw
      His sister with her curls,
    He turned his nose up so, and said:
      "I never play with girls!

    "They're molly-coddles all," he cried;
      "They always spoil a match;
    They cannot field or bowl a bit--
      They cannot even catch!
    However, just this once I'll play!"
      O, pride had such a fall:
    You should have heard them shout--a girl
    Had bowled him out first ball!

C.B.


Laugh at It!

    When you hear the merry rain
    Patter at the window-pane,
    Think 'twill soon be fine again;
        So laugh at it!

    If you chance to tumble down,
    Though you bump your little crown,
    Never cry or pout or frown,
        Just laugh at it!

    When the sum is hard to do,
    Rub it out and try anew;
    When you get the answer true
        You'll laugh at it!

C.B.

[Illustration:]


The Dancing Academy


    This is the way, on a rainy day,
      We teach our dolls to dance--
    The doll in blue, and the Scotchman true,
      And Lady Belle from France.
    It's heel and toe and it's to and fro,
      They all can do it well;
    But the best of all our pupils small
      Is darling Lady Belle!

    They're very good, but they're only wood,
      So they have to be shown
    The step to take and the bow to make--
      They cannot dance alone!
    Quadrille, gavotte, and I don't know what,
      They soon will clever be!
    So, dolls who sigh to be dancers, try
      Our Dolls' Academy!

C.B.

[Illustration:]

[Illustration: A JOLLY RIDE.]


A Visit to the Dale Farm

[Illustration:]


When Dorothy's and Oliver's father and mother had arranged to go
abroad for six weeks, the question arose: "What shall we do with the
children?" They had many aunts and uncles who would willingly take
care of them, but their mother wanted them to be in the country; so,
in the end, it was decided to send them with their nurse to stay at a
farm, the mistress of which had once been a nurse to their mother, and
who was sure to take good care of them.

There was a great deal of excitement and bustle, but at last all was
ready, and the day came for them to say good-bye for a short time to
their home. Their ponies had already been sent on, and the terrier
Patch was to go with them.

Their mother was going with them, and their father saw them off at the
station.

When they arrived at the Dale Farm there was a warm welcome for them.
Their mother and her old nurse had a lot to talk about, and then they
went into the quaint farm-parlour for tea, and how they all enjoyed
the honey and cream and hot scones!

After tea they had to say good-bye to their mother, for she had to be
driven back to the station.

The following morning the children were wakened by the crowing of the
cocks and the cackling of the hens and other noises unfamiliar to
them. After breakfast, they went on a tour of inspection round the
farm places. They also went to greet their ponies, who seemed quite
rejoiced to hear their voices in this strange land. Then they went to
see Mrs. Farmer feed her poultry; and what a noise there was among the
turkeys, and geese, and ducks, and hens!--all so hungry for breakfast,
and all pushing round without the slightest regard for good manners.
After them there were the calves to feed. Six long-legged shaky little
things--they wondered they could ever grow into anything to be afraid
of. Before they had half finished looking round nurse called them to
get ready for their ride.

Everything was different from what it was at home, for they were to
take their rides without a groom, and across the common, a big place
covered with short crisp grass, with occasional clumps of rushes and
thistles; and here they could canter, or gallop, or race without fear
of harm.

People and animals seemed to do as they liked on the common. Donkeys
browsed sleepily, and when the children came near lifted their heads
as if to say: "Who are these strangers? They're not donkeys, so what
do they want on our ground?"

Then there were a lot of geese there. Patch thought he would have a
bit of fun with the geese one day, so he set off to chase them. There
was a great fluster and spreading of wings, and they waddled off a few
yards; then they turned suddenly and faced him, stretching out their
long necks and hissing, at which Patch turned tail and troubled them
no more.

The village children on their way to and from school would linger on
the common to chase butterflies or run races. Then the boys found it a
capital place for playing at soldiers and leap-frog, and other things.

As it was June the farm people were busy in the hay, so of course
Dorothy and Oliver helped. They raked and tossed and gathered it into
heaps, and then they grew dreadfully hungry, so they sat under the
hedge and ate _bread and cheese_, which they found was quite the
correct lunch for haymakers. Patch sat with them and was having his
share, when he suddenly began sniffing and snorting and scratching
round a haycock. They thought there must be a rat about, but when they
moved the hay they found a poor little creature with a brown plush
coat and _no eyes_! Nurse told them it was a mole, so they put it in a
box lined with cotton-wool and gave it lettuce to eat, but it only
lived four days. I don't think it would like the most luxurious nest
as well as a little hole in the ground.

It would take a long time to tell you about all the children saw and
did during their visit to the Dale Farm: how they rode on the hay,
then came jogging back in the empty cart for more; how they drove with
the farmer in his spring-cart, which was not so very springy; how they
learned to milk, and quite got over their fear of cows. Altogether
they had such a delightful time that they hope they may go again next
year.

When the letter came to say the ship had arrived bringing back their
father and mother they were of course delighted, but they were quite
sorry to have to say good-bye to all their farm friends, animals as
well as people.

So the children went back to their city home, and when their father
and mother heard all their accounts of the good time they had had, and
saw their tanned and rosy cheeks, they said: "O, you must go again
next year."

_Ellyn Hall._

[Illustration: A GOOD KICK.]


The Worst Pupil


    When Betty kept a school one day,
      Her sister was so good;
    The dollies every one behaved
      As well-taught dollies should;

    But Tom was such a noisy boy
      She had to get the cane;
    The very sight gave him a fright
      And made him good again!

C.B.

[Illustration:]


The Tea Party


    Little Miss Betty has had a tea-party,
    Everyone came with an appetite hearty;
    Animals, dollies, and toys were invited;
    Bobby was good and our Baby delighted.
    Of cake, bread-and-butter, and milk they had plenty--
    The cups were so tiny that Bobby drank twenty;
    And when it was over they ran and asked mother
    If they might to-morrow have just such another!--C.B.

[Illustration:]


A Scratch Team.

[Illustration:]

[Illustration:]


"That's a wide!" said Tom, as the ball went rolling by about a yard
from the stump. "Throw it up, Maggie. Now, Hugh, try again!"

It was a very young and inexperienced team that Tom Gardner was
instructing. Tom was staying with his Aunt Gertrude, and had been
complaining to her that he had no one whom he could play cricket with.

"Why don't you play with the children?" asked his aunt at last.

"Play with the kids?" gasped Tom. "Why, auntie, they are all girls
except Hugh, and he not even in knickerbockers! And they don't know
how!"

"Well, can't you teach them?" his aunt asked. Tom looked at her with
some surprise. He was very fond of her and would do much to please
her, but this seemed rather unreasonable.

"I--I have only a bat," he murmured? "there aren't any stumps!"

"O, I'll soon make you some stumps," said the lady briskly. "Come out
into the garden and I'll soon get them."

She was as good as her word. In a few minutes she had found three
sticks, pointed the ends with her pocket-knife, and driven them in
with the gardener's mallet on the lower lawn. A flower-pot was placed
on the centre stick. Then she produced a ball from her pocket.

"Now," she said, "you have everything you will want, and I leave you
to teach your scratch team."

Tom laughed. The phrase "your scratch team" pleased him. His aunt's
energy had infected him, and he began to marshal his forces.

"Now, look here, girls," he said; "Maggie, you're wicket-keeper, and
Fan and Kitty must field, and Hugh shall bowl."

But Hugh proved such an indifferent bowler that even the girls began
to clamour.

"Let me twy, Cousin Tom," cried Maggie; "I can frow better than Hugh!"

"You frow!" laughed Tom; "why, you can't speak properly yet!"

"Let me twy," said Maggie; "I don't bowl with my tongue!"

[Illustration: A SCRATCH TEAM.]

[Illustration:]

So Maggie tried, and the game began to get exciting.

Maggie couldn't say her "r's," but she could certainly throw a ball
very straight, and Tom had to play his best.

He began to hit the ball about the lawn, so that the little fielders
grew hot and out of breath. At last one vigorous toss absolutely hit
the wicket and sent the stumps and the flower-pot sprawling.

"I have knocked him out," cried Maggie, jumping about in her glee. "I
am going to bat the ball now!"

But at that moment a voice was heard calling: "Come in to tea,
children!"

"It can't be tea-time yet, surely!" said Tom, quite astonished at the
quick flight of time.

So the scratch team had not played so badly after all, and during
Tom's stay with his aunt they had many a game together and always
thoroughly enjoyed it.

_M.A. Hoyer._


Roddy's Victory

[Illustration:]

[Illustration:]


It was Saturday--a summer Saturday; the sun shone down upon the meads
and pastures round Clover Farm so radiantly that every face felt bound
to smile brightly in return. Every face but one, and that belonged to
Roddy Lester, the eldest of the farmer's four.

"What ails my boy this fine sunshiny morning?" called out mother from
the cool, sweet dimness of the dairy, where she was at work.

Roddy did not answer. He was standing in the ivy-encircled doorway of
the dairy, his hands deep in his pockets, his feet shuffling to and
fro, and on his face a dark, angry cloud.

"Come, Roddy, tell mother the trouble. Is it anything to do with
school? Is there a punishment preparation to be done this morning?"

"No; there isn't!" Roddy roused himself at such a suspicion. "Why,
mother, I told you I was moved up yesterday; don't you remember? But
I'll come inside and tell you all about it."

"No! Tell me from outside all about it."

"Well, then, mother, I don't _want_ to take the children to the meads.
I want to amuse myself. And it's not fair. Saturday's a holiday, and
it's my right to have it!" sullenly said Roddy.

"Your right! Perhaps so, dear! But sometimes it is our privilege to
yield our rights!" quietly said mother, taking her eyes for a second
off the yellowing cream to glance at the boy's gloomy face. "Who told
you to take the children to the meads--father?" she asked.

"Yes, it was. He said I was to take them to the cowslip meads, and not
to stir from there until he came back from market."

"And what is it you want to do instead?"

"I want to go with my net down to Butterfly Corner. There will be
heaps of butterflies out this sunny day. And the other boys at school
are all collecting: they have more than I have, all of them. I have
only a tortoiseshell and a brimstone. O, it's a regular shame of
father!"

"Hush, dear, hush! Nothing that your kind, good father says or does
can be called a shame. But I believe I can guess why he gave those
orders. He knew that this is an over-busy day for me, and also that I
have one of my bad headaches." Certainly mother's face gleamed out
white from the dairy shadows. "And as this is market-day at Hamley
Town he and old Michael would be away until dinner-time. So, you see,
sonny, he has left _you_ in charge. You are in father's place this
morning to guard the farm and us all, particularly the tinies. Don't
you see what an honour it is to be trusted thus?"

Something stirred in Roddy's heart at his mother's words. The best
part of him suddenly came uppermost. He walked quietly away, followed
by Fuzzy sniffing at his heels. And, somehow, the boy felt an inch
taller as he looked round the farm. After all, what were the
butterflies compared with the tinies left in his charge? "Hip, hip,
hooray!" Roddy straightened himself and cheered. He had won a
victory--over himself.

[Illustration:]

"Hi, Nettie! Hi, Dumps! Come along! And where's Baby? We're going to
the meads, and I'll make you a fine cowslip ball to shoot the rooks
with!" he shouted, and Fuzzy barked madly round as the tinies flocked
out.

When they got there, what with the sun and the wind, the making of the
huge cowslip ball and the little ones' joy over it, Roddy's face
cleared up and was as sunshiny as the weather itself. There's nothing
like giving up your own will for making the heart sing.

By-and-by, when dinner-time came, so did father. As the dog-cart drove
along the high-road, Roddy and Nettie puzzled over its appearance.

"It's got a new wheel at the back, Roddy!"

But Roddy's eyes widened into a fixed stare, and his face grew very
red.

"Well, boy, here you are at your post. Now I'll tell you why I wanted
you to stay at home this morning. It was for this surprise. Look, my
lad! For weeks back I've been in treaty for this bicycle for you.
To-day I was able to close with the bargain, and it's yours!"

For a few seconds Roddy could not see: his eyes were dimmed. The good,
kind father had been planning out his boy's pleasure! "O, father!" he
gasped; then, "O, mother!"

"Such a beauty!" delightedly said mother.

"It's a good one; I don't know the name," father was beginning.

"I do!" put in mother. "It is the 'Victory'--Roddy's Victory!"

_M.B. Manwell._


Was It a Dream?

[Illustration:]


Rita grew quite tired of gathering wildflowers while her brother Frank
sat by the water busy with his fishing-rod.

"He _must_ be tired of it by this time! He has been fishing for two
hours!" she said, and, swinging her bunch of flowers, she walked to
where her brother was sitting.

"_Do_ leave off fishing for a while, Frank!" she pleaded, leaning
against the tree beside him. "There is such a funny-looking animal
running about over there in the grass. Come and look!"

Frank laughed.

"I know your funny-looking animals, Rita!" he said.

"Aren't you really tired of sitting quite still?" went on Rita
wonderingly.

"I don't think about it," answered her brother. "I want to catch the
fish, and to do that I must sit still."

Rita knew she must be contented to wait, so she walked a little way
from him and threw herself down upon the bank.

As she lay looking into the water she suddenly felt herself grow very
sleepy. A little while after, the water began to get so clear that she
could see right through it. It grew more and more so until it became
just like glass. Rita could see the very bottom of the pond and the
fish swimming quickly backwards and forwards.

Then she heard some very funny little voices coming up from the water.
This made her look closer, and she soon discovered a small group of
fishes who seemed to be speaking very eagerly together. She saw they
were gathered round Frank's line, on the end of which hung a tempting
piece of bait.

"I tell you, my son," Rita heard the largest fish say to one of the
smaller ones, "that is a trap. I have seen hundreds of poor fishes try
to swallow that worm, and they have been pulled up out of the water
and I have never seen them any more!"

"But, mother!" cried the smaller fish, "if I only had just one bite!
Look what a beauty it is! I am sure there can be nothing to harm me!"

"Inside that worm," continued, the big fish, "there is a hook which
will catch into your gills, and you will not be able to get away. Then
the man at the top will pull you up and up, and you will be killed and
eaten by him!"

Still the little fish looked longingly at the bait. Rita wanted to
call out and tell him what his mother said was quite true; but somehow
her voice refused to come.

The other fishes who were gathered round listening did not say
anything, but Rita saw that some of the smaller ones looked at the
worm just as longingly as the little one who had spoken.

For a few minutes there was silence in the water; then all at once, at
a moment when it thought its mother was looking the other way, the
little fish made a dart forward and tried to swallow the bait. The
next moment it was wriggling about in a most pitiable manner and
giving faint little cries for help. Its mother swam towards it in
great distress.

"Come and help!" she called, in a trembling voice.

All the other fishes surrounded the line, and some caught hold of the
little fish's tail and held on.

Just as Rita was getting very excited indeed she gave a great start
and jumped up from the bank.

"What was that?" she exclaimed aloud.

"Why, I've got a splendid catch. It must be a monster! The line is so
heavy I can hardly pull it in!"

It was Frank's voice. Rita suddenly remembered where she was and that
she must have fallen asleep. She walked slowly to Frank, thinking
about her strange dream.

She had only stood by him a minute when--splash!--out flew the line
from the water and over went Frank on his back.

It was so funny that Rita could not help laughing heartily--especially
as Frank was not at all hurt.

"It's all very well for you to laugh!" he said, when he had got up
again; "but that was the best catch I've ever had, and the wretched
fish must have got off the hook!"

Rita grew very thoughtful. Could her dream have been true? It really
did seem strange. Anyway, although she felt sorry for Frank, she could
not help feeling very pleased that the poor little fish had got free!

_Edith Robarts._


Merry Folk.

[Illustration:]


    Merry folk tiny, merry folk tall,
    Happy as can be, here they are all,
    Spending the holidays 'midst the flowers,
    Laughing away the joyous hours!

    Merry folk sunny, merry folk sweet,
    Pleasant to look at, happy to meet,
    Nothing but smiling, never a sigh,
    They are so glad to be here, that's why!

    Merry girls dancing under the trees,
    With their curls floating out on the breeze,
    Merry boys playing all the day through,
    Here you will find them waiting for you.

[Illustration:]

    Why are they merry? I'll tell you why:
    They know you will see them by-and-by;
    They know that you all are going to look
    At them in this merry picture-book.

[Illustration: TOBOGGANING.]


Auntie's Tea-Tray.

[Illustration:]


"Auntie dear, will you buy Molly and me a toboggan? There's such a
lovely slide on Heath Hill, and Toddy Graham and the Earles have
toboggans, and we want one too."

Auntie looked up from her sewing and shook her head. "No, my dears, I
can't. Run out and play with your hoops instead," she said, and then
she went on with her work.

Charlie _was_ angry. "I'm ever so much bigger than Toddy Graham," he
said indignantly, "and his mother lets him have a toboggan. It's a
shame! But never mind, Molly; we'll go all the same. I've got an idea.
You go to the hill and I'll come presently."

Molly trotted away, and in a minute or two Charlie came running
towards her, carrying his auntie's best tea-tray. "I had an awful
bother to get it," he said. "Jane saw me with the old one and took it
away; but I remembered this one was upstairs in auntie's room, so I
fetched it without anyone seeing me."

"But what's the good of a tea-tray?" asked Molly.

"Toboggan, you silly; come along," Charlie answered shortly; and in
another minute the two children were spinning away down the hill.

The first journey was most successful, but on the second. Charlie
forgot that a tea-tray requires careful management and good steering,
and half-way down the hill he came into collision with Toddy Graham.

Over went the tray, smash came Toddy's toboggan right on the top of
it, and all three' children were shot out into the snow. Toddy and
Charlie picked themselves up, but Molly lay without moving.

"She's dead, Toddy Graham. O, what shall I do?" wailed poor frightened
Charlie.

"You'd better fetch your aunt," suggested practical Toddy; and Charlie
rushed off as fast as his fat legs could carry him.

