Of him--the beneficent future tourist--we shall willingly accept any
number of fables, if only he will add something more filling than Mr.
Porter has given us. It is true that this tourist will not have a mere
pleasure excursion, but will undergo much to merit the gratitude of his
readers. The land of Bashan is nomadically inhabited by a race of men
much fiercer than its ancient bulls; and Bedouins beset the movements of
the traveller, to pillage and slay wherever they are strong enough to
overcome his escort of Druses. Mr. Porter tells much of the perils he
incurred, and even of actual attacks made upon him by fanatical
Mussulmans while he sketched the wonders of the world's youth among
which they dwelt. For the present his book has a value unique and very
great: the scenes through which he passes have been heretofore unvisited
by travel, and the interest attaching to them is intense and universal.
The literal verification of many passages of Scripture supposed more or
less allegorical, must have its weight with all liberal thinkers; and,
as a contribution to the means of religious inquiry, this work will be
earnestly received.


_Life of Benjamin Silliman, M. D., LL. D., late Professor of Chemistry,
Mineralogy, and Geology in Yale College._ Chiefly from his Manuscript
Reminiscences, Diaries, and Correspondence. By GEORGE P. FISHER,
Professor in Yale College. In Two Volumes. New York: Charles Scribner &
Co.

Professor Fisher, in allowing the subject of this biography to tell the
story of his life, restricts himself very self-denyingly to here and
there a line of introduction or comment. We have ample passages from
Professor Silliman's journal, and from an autobiographical memoir
written during his last years, as well as extracts from his letters and
the letters addressed to him. It is an easy and pleasant way of writing
personal history, and it would be an easy and pleasant way of reading
it, if life were as long as art. But we fear that the popular usefulness
of this work--and the biography of the eminent man who did so much to
popularize science should be in the hands of all--must be impaired by
its magnitude; and we are disposed to regret that Professor Fisher did
not think fit to reject that part of the correspondence which
contributes nothing to the movement of the narrative or the development
of character, and condense much of that material which has only a value
reflected from the interest already felt in Professor Silliman. These
are faults in a work from which we have risen with a clear sense of the
beauty and goodness, as well as the greatness, of the eminent scientist.
It is admirable to see how his career, begun in another century and
another phase of civilization, ended in what was best and most
enlightened and liberal in our own time. A man could hardly have started
from better things, or been subject at important points of his progress
to better influences. Benjamin Silliman was of Revolutionary stock,
which had its roots in the soil of the Reformation. The Connecticut
Puritan came of Tuscan Puritans, who fled their city of Lucca, and
finally passed from Switzerland through Holland to our shores. Brain and
heart in him were thus imbued with an unfaltering love of freedom,
chastised by religious fervor; and when he became a man, he married with
a race of kindred origin in faith, sentiment, and principles. He
advanced with his times in a patriotic devotion to democracy and
equality, but he seems to have always kept, together with great
simplicity of character, the impression of early teaching and
associations, and something of old-time stateliness and formality. His
youth, like his age, was very sober, modest, and discreet. The ties
which united him to his family were strong; and he loved his mother, who
long survived his father, with the reverent affection of the past
generation. He inherited certain theological principles from his
parents, and never swerved from them for a moment. Some friendships came
down to him from his father which he always honored; and the institution
of learning with which he maintained a life-long connection was in his
early days the object of a regard mixed with awe, and always of pride
and devotion. He used to think President Styles the greatest of human
beings; and one reads with a kind of dismay, that he was once fined
sixpence for kicking a football into the President's door-yard.

There was in this grave youth the making of many kinds of greatness. He
who became so eminent in science could have been a great jurist, for he
had the tranquillity and perseverance necessary to legal success; he
could have been a great statesman, for his political views were clear
and just and far-reaching; he wrote some of the most popular books of
travels in his day, and he could have shone in literature; while he
appears to have been conscious of the direction in which a sole weakness
lay, and with early wisdom forsook the muse of poetry. He tells us that
it was no instinctive preference which led him to the study and pursuit
of the natural sciences, but the persuasion of Dr. Dwight, who was
President of Yale in Silliman's twenty-third year, and who opened this
career to him by offering him the Professorship of Chemistry, then about
to be established. At that time Silliman was studying law; but, once
convinced that he can be of greater use to himself and others in the way
proposed, he enters it and never looks back; goes to Philadelphia to
hear the learnedest professors of that day; goes to Europe for the
culture unattainable in this country; overcomes poverty in himself and
in Yale; will not be tempted from New Haven by the offer of the
Presidency of the University of South Carolina, but devotes himself to a
generous study of science, to the diffusion of scientific knowledge, and
the promotion of the greatness of the institution to which he belongs.
His devotion is not blind, however: he finds time to write attractive
accounts of his voyages to Europe, to concern himself in religious
affairs, to sympathize and cooperate with whatever is noble and good in
political movements. He lives long enough to enjoy his fame, to see Yale
prosperous and great, and his country about to triumph forever over the
evil of slavery, which he had hated and combated. It was a noble
life,--simple, pure, and illustrious,--and its history is full of
instruction and encouragement.


_Fifteen Days._ An Extract from EDWARD COLVIL'S Journal. Boston: Ticknor
and Fields.

This is a work of fiction, in which the passion of love, so far from
being the prime motive, as in other fictions, does not enter at all. The
author seeks to reach, without other incident, one tragic event, and
endeavors to make up for a want of adventure by the subtile analysis of
character and the study of a civil problem. The novelty and courage of
the attempt will attract the thoughtful reader, and will probably tempt
him so far into the pages of the book, that he will find himself too
deeply interested in its persons to part from them voluntarily. The
national sin with which the author so pitilessly deals has been expiated
by the whole nation, and is now no more; but its effects upon the guilty
and guiltless victims, here alike so leniently treated, remain, and the
question of slavery must always command attention till the question of
reconstruction is settled.

