
The courtesy of an invitation to partake a traveller's meal, or at least
that of being invited to share whatever liquor the guest called for, was
expected by certain old landlords in Scotland, even in the youth of
the author. In requital, mine host was always furnished with the news
of the country, and was probably a little of a humourist to boot. The
devolution of the whole actual business and drudgery of the inn upon the
poor gudewife was very common among the Scottish bonifaces. There was
in ancient times, in the city of Edinburgh, a gentleman of good family,
who condescended, in order to gain a livelihood, to become the nominal
keeper of a coffee-house, one of the first places of the kind which
had been opened in the Scottish metropolis. As usual, it was entirely
managed by the careful and industrious Mrs. B----; while her husband
amused himself with field-sports, without troubling his head about the
matter. Once upon a time the premises having taken fire, the husband was
met walking up the High Street, loaded with his guns and fishing-rods,
and replied calmly to some one that inquired after his wife, "that the
poor woman was trying to save a parcel of crockery, and some trumpery
books;" the last being those which served her to conduct the business
of the house. There were many elderly gentlemen in the author's younger
days, who still held it part of the amusement of a journey "to parley
with mine host," who often resembled, in his quaint humour, mine Host of
the Garter, in the Merry Wives of Windsor; or Blague of the George, in
the Merry Devil of Edmonton. Sometimes the landlady took her share of
entertaining the company. In either case, the omitting to pay them due
attention gave displeasure, and perhaps brought down a smart jest, as on
the following occasion:--A jolly dame who, not "sixty years since," kept
the principal caravansary at Greenlaw, in Berwickshire, had the honour
to receive under her roof a very worthy clergyman, with three sons of
the same profession, each having a cure of souls; be it said in passing,
none of the reverend party were reckoned powerful in the pulpit. After
dinner was over, the worthy senior, in the pride of his heart, asked
Mrs. Buchan whether she ever had had such a party in her house before.
"Here sit I," he said, "a placed minister of the kirk of Scotland,
and here sit my three sons, each a placed minister of the same
kirk.--Confess, Luckie Buchan, you never had such a party in your house
before." The question was not premised by any invitation to sit down and
take a glass of wine or the like, so Mrs. B. answered drily, "Indeed,
sir, I cannot just say that ever I had such a party in my house before,
except once in the forty-five, when I had a Highland piper here, with
his three sons, all Highland pipers; _and deil a spring they could play
amang them!"--Notes to the New Edition of the Waverley Novels_.

       *       *       *       *       *


CATCHING TIGERS.


In some parts of South America, a great many tigers are caught with
the lasso by the Indian and Creole inhabitants for the sake of their
skins. They are also sometimes entrapped in the following manner: a
large chest, or wooden frame, is made, supported upon four wheels, and
is dragged by oxen to a place where the traces of tigers have been
discovered. In the furthest corner of the chest is put a putrid piece
of flesh, by way of bait, which is no sooner laid hold of by the tiger
than the door of the trap falls; he is killed by a musket ball, or a
spear thrust through the crevices of the planks.--_Memoirs of General
Miller_.

       *       *       *       *       *

ODE.

(_From the Persian_.)


  The joys of love and youth be mine,
  The cheerful glass, the ruby wine,
  The social feast, the merry friend,
  And brimming goblets without end.

  The maid whose lips all sweets contain,
  The minstrel with bewitching strain,
  And, by my side, the merry soul
  Who briskly circulates the bowl!

  A maiden full of life and light,
  Like Eden's fountains pure and bright;
  Whose sweetness steals the heart away,
  Mild, beauteous, as the moon of May.

  A banquet-hall, the social room,
  Cool, spacious, breathing rich perfume,
  Like that fair hall where, midst the roses,
  Each saint in heaven above reposes!

  Servants in briskness who excel,
  Friends who can keep a secret well,
  And merry men who love their lass,
  And drink your health in many a glass.

  Wine, sparkling like the ruby bright,
  Neither too sweet, nor yet too light;
  One draught from purple wine we'll sip,
  And one from beauty's rosy lip!

  A maid, whose joyous glances roll
  To cheer the heart and charm the soul;
  Whose graceful locks, that flow behind,
  Engage and captivate mankind!

  A noble friend, whose rank is grac'd
  By learning and poetic taste;
  Who, like my Patron, loves the bard,
  Well skill'd true merit to reward!

  Breathes there a man too cold to prove
  The joys of friendship or of love?
  Oh, let him die! when these are fled
  Scarce do we differ from the dead!

_Gentleman's Magazine_.

       *       *       *       *       *


LITERARY GAZETTES.


As one of the signs of the times we notice the almost simultaneous
appearance of three new Literary Gazettes, at Edinburgh, Oxford, and
Manchester. One of the latter contains a wood-cut of the Manchester
Royal Institution, and eight quarto pages for three-pence. Among the
original articles is a sketch of Mr. Kean, in which the writer says,
"Mr. Kean's countenance was some years since, one of the finest ever
beheld, and his eye the brightest and most penetrating. Without ever
having seen Lord Byron, we should say there must have been a great
similarity of features and expression between them."

       *       *       *       *       *


DUELLING CODE.


People talk about the voluminous nature of our statute-books,
forsooth. Nonsense! they are not half large or numerous enough. There
is room and necessity for hundreds and thousands of new laws; and if
duelling cannot be prevented, it might at least be regulated, and a
shooting license regularly taken out every year; and the licenses only
granted to persons of a certain rank, and property, and age. Say, for
instance, that none under fifteen years shall be allowed a license;
that livery servants, apprentices, clerks in counting-houses, coach
and wagon offices, hair-dressers, and tailors who use the thimble in
person, should be considered as unqualified persons. This would render
duelling more select and respectable.--_Rank and Talent_.

       *       *       *       *       *


SOUTH AMERICAN BANDITTI.


The vicinity of Lima is occasionally infested by banditti, carrying on
their operations in open day with so much system, that all who chance
to travel at that time are sure to be relieved of their valuables.
These robbers are composed chiefly of free mulattoes and others of a
mixed race. The evil has existed from time immemorial, and is of
purely Spanish origin; for Indian honesty, in retired villages, is so
great, that when a family for a time leaves its cage-like hut, the
latchless wicket is left ajar; a brush is placed on the sill, and it
would be worse than sacrilege for any one to cross the threshold under
any pretence. It has happened that the brigands, well armed and well
mounted, have assembled at distant and uncertain periods within a mile
of Callao. They direct their course towards Lima, stop all whom they
meet, and having very civilly lightened them of their purses, oblige
the plundered persons to accompany the robbers, till all arrive near
to the city gate, when the banditti disperse. Some ride boldly into
the town; many conceal themselves in the thickets of canes; whilst
others cut across the country, and return quietly to their homes, to
enjoy the spoil, or follow their usual occupations. The banditti, on
such extraordinary occasions, amount to twenty or thirty in number;
and it has happened that they have had about twenty carriages, besides
persons dismounted and made to lead their own horses, in the train,
which was regularly brought up by a rear-guard, while the advanced
scouts pushed on to secure fresh booty. They seldom commit murder; and
whenever it is possible, they avoid robbing officers of the army, or
civilians in the employment of government. Neither do they, when
acting in small parties, attack persons of note. Foreigners and
strangers are in general their usual victims.--_Memoir of General
Miller_.

       *       *       *       *       *


STEALING A SHEET.


A bet was laid by a gentleman that he would procure an Indian thief
who should steal the sheet from under a person without waking him. The
thing was effected in the following manner:--the Bheel approaching the
person, who lay on his side, from behind, carefully folded up the
sheet in small compact plaits till it reached his back; then, taking a
feather, he tickled the nose of the sleeper, who immediately scratched
his face and rolled over on the other side, when with a slight effort
he completely released the sheet, and bore it off in triumph.--_Twelve
Years' Military Adventures_.

       *       *       *       *       *


EDUCATION AND AMUSEMENTS OF THE LOWER CLASSES.


A correspondent of the _Gardener's Magazine_ observes that "next to
the existing school societies, there is nothing I am more anxious to
see, or would more gladly contribute to, than a _Society for promoting
the Rational Amusements of the Lower Classes_, the first aim of which
should be to instruct itinerant teachers of music, singing, and
dancing, in improved modes of imparting their arts, and thus fairly
set the plan agoing, when it would soon work its own way, and might
then be extended to higher objects. The taste for flowers among the
Paisley weavers, for gooseberry-growing at Manchester, and for music
among the west of Yorkshire clothiers, originally sprang up from
imitation of one or two amateurs of each pursuit; and there only needs
a similar _first impulse_, which a society with a few thousands a year
might give, to spread a general taste for music, singing, and dancing,
and ultimately for other branches of the fine arts, as drawing and
painting, as well as for natural history, and the cultivation of
flowers and fruits, &c.

"The lower classes in England, thus improved in morals and manners by a
better education and more humanising amusements, might be safely left
to choose their time of contracting marriage, and would then no more
make beasts of themselves by drinking fermented liquors, than do the
lower classes in the city from which I write, (Brussels) where
probably more beer (and that by no means weak) is drank than in any
town of similar size in England, every street being crowded with
_cabarets_ (public-houses,) and these in the evening almost always
filled. But how filled? Not with rioters and noisy drunkards, but with
parties at separate tables, often consisting of a man, his wife and
children, all sipping their pot of beer poured into very small glasses
to prolong the pleasure, and the gratification of drinking seeming
less than that of the cheerful chit-chat, which is the main object of
the whole assemblage. Deep-rooted national bad habits can be
eradicated only by the spread of knowledge, which will ultimately
teach our lower classes, as it has already done the bulk of the
higher, that _moderation_ is the condition of real enjoyments, and
must be the motto even of the sensualist who aims at long-continued
indulgence."

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *


TOAST.


The Parting toast at one of the old gaming-houses in _Marybone_ was
"_May as many of us as remain unhanged next spring, meet here again_."

       *       *       *       *       *


EPIGRAM

_Translated from the French of Mr. Patris, who composed it a few days
before his death. By J.C._


  Last night I dreamt that worn away
    With sickness, I was dead,
  And that my carcass, cheek by jowl,
    Was by a poor man's laid.

  My stomach rose, methought, to see
    The wretch so near me lie,
  And straight his sauciness I chid,
    Like corpse of quality.

  Scoundrel, cried I, move farther off,
    And give your betters room,
  Avaunt, you scrub, and rot elsewhere,
    Foh! how you stink and fume.

  Scrub! quoth the saucy dog, that's well,
    Pray who's more scrub than you?
  Bethink you, Mr., where you are,
    And do not rant it so.

  Hither on equal terms all come,
    Here's neither rich nor poor,
  My muck's my own, and be assur'd,
    That your's can be no more.

       *       *       *       *       *


SONG.


  Oh, yes! I always dream of her,
    But never breathe her name;
  Her spirit always dwells with me,
    By night, by day the same!
  The cheerful smile no more is mine;
    I sorrow and regret;
  I strive in vain to banish love,
    But still I can't forget.

  My friends may try to rally me,
    And chase my grief away;
  I smile in sadness while they laugh,
    But heed not what they say.
  They must not know how deep I love,
    Nor win my secret yet;
  And when I smile amid the scene,
    'Tis not that I forget.

  My lips can never break the spell;
    Her name is buried here!
  And yet perchance she may bedew
    My coffin with a tear!
  But if in climes away from her
    The sun of life should set,
  Her name will quiver on my lip,
    When I the world forget.

Z.

       *       *       *       *       *


EPITAPH IN AWLISCOMBE CHURCHYARD, DEVONSHIRE.


  Here lie the remains of James Pady,
  _brickmaker_, late of this parish, in hopes
  that his _clay_ will be _remoulded_ in a workmanlike
  manner, far superior to his former
  perishable materials.

  Keep death and judgment always in your _eye_,
  Or else the devil off with you will fly,
  And in his _kiln_ with brimstone ever fry.
  If you neglect the narrow _road_ to seek,
  Christ will reject you like a _half-burnt brick_.

_Awliscombe_.

J.S.

       *       *       *       *       *


In the sea-fight off Minorca, in 1756, a gunner had his right hand
shot off, just as he was going to fire off a gun. The brave fellow
took up the match, saying, quite unconcernedly, "So then you thought
that I had but one arm."

       *       *       *       *       *


FLOWERS.


  With each expanding flower we find
  Some pleasing sentiment combin'd;
  Love in the myrtle bloom is seen,
    Remembrance to the violet clings,
  Peace brightens in the olive green,
    Hope from the half-closed iris springs,
  Victory from the laurel grows,
  And woman blushes in the rose.

       *       *       *       *       *


GOOD MORROW, A SONG.


    Fly, night, away!
    And welcome day!
  With night we banish sorrow;
    Sweet air, blow soft,
    Sunshine aloft,
  To give my love good morrow!

    Wings from the wind
    To please her mind,
  Notes from the lark I'll borrow;
    Lark, stretch thy wing,
    And tow'ring sing,
  To give my love good morrow!

    Ye violets blue,
    Sweet drops of dew,
  That shine in every furrow,
    Fresh odours fling
    On zephyr's wing,
  To give my love good morrow!

    Bright Venus, spare
    Awhile thy car,
  Thy Cupid, dove, and sparrow,
    To waft my fair,
    Like my own star,
  To give the world good morrow!

G.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

