25. When we had begun to sing the Office, the people began to
have a great devotion to the monastery; more nuns were received,
and our Lord began to stir up those who had been our greatest
persecutors to become great benefactors, and give alms to us.
In this way they came to approve of what they had condemned; and
so, by degrees, they withdrew from the lawsuit, and would say
that they now felt it to be a work of God, since His Majesty had
been pleased to carry it on in the face of so much opposition.
And now there is not one who thinks that it would have been right
not to have founded the monastery: so they make a point of
furnishing us with alms; for without any asking on our part,
without begging of any one, our Lord moves them to, succour us;
and so we always have what is necessary for us, and I trust in
our Lord it will always be so. [31]  As the sisters are few in
number, if they do their duty as our Lord at present by His grace
enables them to do, I am confident that they will always have it,
and that they need not be a burden nor troublesome to anybody;
for our Lord will care for them, as He has hitherto done.

26. It is the greatest consolation to me to find myself among
those who are so detached.  Their occupation is to learn how they
may advance in the service of God.  Solitude is their delight;
and the thought of being visited by any one, even of their
nearest kindred, is a trial, unless it helps them to kindle more
and more their love of the Bridegroom.  Accordingly, none come to
this house who do not aim at this; otherwise they neither give
nor receive any pleasure from their visits.  Their conversation
is of God only; and so he whose conversation is different does
not understand them, and they do not understand him.

27. We keep the rule of our Lady of Carmel, not the rule of the
Mitigation, but as it was settled by Fr. Hugo, Cardinal of Santa
Sabina, and given in the year 1248, in the fifth year of the
pontificate of Innocent IV., Pope.  All the trouble we had to go
through, as it seems to me, will have been endured to
good purpose.

28. And now, though the rule be somewhat severe,--for we never
eat flesh except in cases of necessity, fast eight months in the
year, and practise some other austerities besides, according to
the primitive rule, [32]--yet the sisters think it light on many
points, and so they have other observances, which we have thought
necessary for the more perfect keeping of it.  And I trust in our
Lord that what we have begun will prosper more and more,
according to the promise of His Majesty.

29. The other house, which the holy woman of whom I spoke
before [33] laboured to establish, has been also blessed of our
Lord, and is founded in Alcala: it did not escape serious
opposition, nor fail to endure many trials.  I know that all
duties of religion are observed in it, according to our primitive
rule.  Our Lord grant that all may be to the praise and glory of
Himself and of the glorious Virgin Mary, whose habit we
wear.  Amen.

30. I think you must be wearied, my father, by the tedious
history of this monastery; and yet it is most concise, if you
compare it with our labours, and the wonders which our Lord has
wrought here.  There are many who can bear witness to this on
oath.  I therefore beg of your reverence, for the love of God,
should you think fit to destroy the rest of this my writing, to
preserve that part of it which relates to this monastery, and
give it, when I am dead, to the sisters who may then be living in
it.  It will encourage them greatly, who shall come here both to
serve God and to labour, that what has been thus begun may not
fall to decay, but ever grow and thrive, when they see how much
our Lord has done through one so mean and vile as I.  As our Lord
has been so particularly gracious to us in the foundation of this
house it seems to me that she will do very wrong, and that she
will be heavily chastised of God, who shall be the first to relax
the perfect observance of the rule, which our Lord has here begun
and countenanced, so that it may be kept with so much sweetness:
it is most evident that the observance of it is easy, and that it
can be kept with ease, by the arrangement made for those who long
to be alone with their Bridegroom Christ, in order to live for
ever in Him.

31. This is to be the perpetual aim of those who are here, to be
alone with Him alone.  They are not to be more in number than
thirteen: I know this number to be the best, for I have had many
opinions about it; and I have seen in my own experience, that to
preserve our spirit, living on alms, without asking of anyone, a
larger number would be inexpedient.  May they always believe one
who with much labour, and by the prayers of many people,
accomplished that which must be for the best!  That this is most
expedient for us will be seen from the joy and cheerfulness, and
the few troubles, we have all had in the years we have lived in
this house, as well as from the better health than usual of us
all.  If any one thinks the rule hard, let her lay the fault on
her want of the true spirit, and not on the rule of the house,
seeing that delicate persons, and those not saints,--because they
have the true spirit,--can bear it all with so much sweetness.
Let others go to another monastery, where they may save their
souls in the way of their own spirit.


1. Toledo.

2. Avila.  In the beginning of June, 1562.

3. See ch. xxxiv. § 2.  The Brief was dated Feb. 7, 1562, the
third year of Pius IV. (De la Fuente).

4. The Brief was addressed to Doña Aldonza de Guzman, and to Doña
Guiomar de Ulloa, her daughter.

5. Don Alvaro de Mendoza (De la Fuente).

6. Don Francisco de Salcedo.

7. St. Peter of Alcantara.  "Truly this is the house of
St. Joseph," were the Saint's words when he saw the rising
monastery; "for I see it is the little hospice of Bethlehem" (De
la Fuente).

8. In less than three months, perhaps; for St. Peter died in the
sixty-third year of his age, Oct. 18, 1562, and in less than
eight weeks after the foundation of the monastery of St. Joseph.

9. Don Juan de Ovalle.

10. When he saw that the Saint had made all her arrangements, he
knew the meaning of his illness, and said to her, "It is not
necessary I should be ill any longer" (Ribera, i. c. 8).

11. Doña Guiomar de Ulloa was now in her native place,
Ciudad Toro.

12. The Mass was said by Gaspar Daza.  See infra, § 18; Reforma,
i. c. xlvi. § 3.

13. The bell which the Saint had provided for the convent weighed
less than three pounds, and remained in the monastery for a
hundred years, till it was sent, by order of the General, to the
monastery of Pastrana, where the general chapters were held.
There the friars assembled at the sound of the bell, which rang
for the first Mass of the Carmelite Reform (Reforma,
i. c. xlvi. § 1).

14. They were Doña Ines and Doña Ana de Tapia, cousins of the
Saint.  There were present also Don Gonzalo de Aranda, Don
Francisco Salcedo, Julian of Avila, priest; Doña Juana de
Ahumada, the Saint's sister; with her husband, Juan de Ovalle.
The Saint herself retained her own habit, making no change,
because she had not the permission of her superiors (Reforma,
i. c. xlvi. § 2).

15. Ch. xxxiii. § 13.

16. Ch. xxxiii. § 3.

17. The first of these was Antonia de Henao, a penitent of
St. Peter of Alcantara, and who wished to enter a religious house
far away from Avila, her home.  St. Peter kept her for
St. Teresa.  She was called from this day forth Antonia of the
Holy Ghost.  The second was Maria de la Paz, brought up by Doña
Guiomar de Ulloa.  Her name was Maria of the Cross.  The third
was Ursola de los Santos.  She retained her family name as Ursola
of the Saints.  It was Gaspar Daza who brought her to the Saint.
The fourth was Maria de Avila, sister of Julian the priest, and
she was called Mary of St. Joseph.  It was at this house, too,
that the Saint herself exchanged her ordinary designation of Doña
Teresa de Ahumada for Teresa of Jesus (Reforma, i. c. xlvi. § 2).

18. See Foundations, ch. ii. § 1, and ch. xxxi, § 1.

19. Ch. xxxiii. §§ 1, 2.

20. Of the Incarnation.

21. F. Domingo Bañes, the great commentator on St. Thomas.
On the margin of the MS., Bañes has with his own hand written:
"This was at the end of August, 1562.  I was present, and gave
this opinion.  I am writing this in May" (the day of the month is
not legible) "1575, and the mother has now founded nine
monasteries en gran religion" (De la Fuente).  At this time Bañes
did not know, and had never seen, the Saint; he undertook her
defence simply because he saw that her intentions were good, and
the means she made use of for founding the monastery lawful,
seeing that she had received the commandment to do so from the
Pope. Bañes testifies thus in the depositions made in Salamanca
in 1591 in the Saint's process.  See vol. ii. p. 376 of Don
Vicente's edition.

22. See Ch. xxxix. § 25.

23. Gonzalo de Aranda (De la Fuente).

24. Don Francisco de Salcedo (ibid.).

25. Ch. xxiii. § 6; Gaspar Daza (ibid.).

26. He died Oct. 18, 1562.

27. Ch. xxvii. § 21.

28. "El Padre Presentado, Dominico.  Presentado en algunas
Religiones es cierto titulo de grado que es respeto del Maestro
como Licenciado" (Cobarruvias, in voce Presente).  The father was
Fra Pedro Ibañez.  See ch. xxxviii. § 15.

29. From the monastery of the Incarnation.  These were Ana of
St. John, Ana of All the Angels, Maria Isabel, and Isabel of
St. Paul.  St. Teresa was a simple nun, living under obedience to
the prioress of St. Joseph, Ana of St. John, and intended so to
remain.  But the nuns applied to the Bishop of Avila and to the
Provincial of the Order, who, listening to the complaints of the
sisters, compelled the Saint to be their prioress.  See Reforma,
i. c. xlix. § 4.

30. Mid-Lent of 1563.

31. See Way of Perfection, ch. ii.

32. "Jejunium singulis diebus, exceptis Dominicis, observetis a
Festo Exaltationis Sanctæ Crucis usque ad diem Dominicæ
Resurrectionis, nisi infirmitas vel debilitas corporis, aut alia
justa causa, jejunium solvi suadeat; quia necessitas non habet
legem.  Ab esu carnium abstineatis, nisi pro infirmitatis aut
debilitatis remedio sint sumantur."  That is the tenth section of
the rule.

33. See ch. xxxv. § 1.  Maria of Jesus had founded her house in
Alcala de Henares; but the austerities practised in it, and the
absence of the religious mitigations which long experience had
introduced, were too much for the fervent nuns there assembled.
Maria of Jesus begged Doña Leonor de Mascareñas to persuade
St. Teresa to come to Alcala.  The Saint went to the monastery,
and was received there with joy, and even entreated to take the
house under her own government (Reforma, ii. c. x. §§ 3, 4).


Chapter XXXVII.


The Effects of the Divine Graces in the Soul.  The Inestimable
Greatness of One Degree of Glory.


1. It is painful to me to recount more of the graces which our
Lord gave me than these already spoken of; and they are so many,
that nobody can believe they were ever given to one so wicked:
but in obedience to our Lord, who has commanded me to do it, [1]
and you, my fathers, I will speak of some of them to His glory.
May it please His Majesty it may be to the profit of some soul!
For if our Lord has been thus gracious to so--miserable a thing
as myself, what will He be to those who shall serve Him truly?
Let all people resolve to please His Majesty, seeing that He
gives such pledges as these even in this life. [2]

2. In the first place, it must be understood that, in those
graces which God bestows on the soul, there are diverse degrees
of joy: for in some visions the joy and sweetness and comfort of
them so far exceed those of others, that I am amazed at the
different degrees of fruition even in this life; for it happens
that the joy and consolation which God gives in a vision or a
trance are so different, that it seems impossible for the soul to
be able to desire anything more in this world: and, so, in fact,
the soul does not desire, nor would it ask for, a greater joy.
Still, since our Lord has made me understand how great a
difference there is in heaven itself between the fruition of one
and that of another, I see clearly enough that here also, when
our Lord wills, He gives not by measure; [3] and so I wish that I
myself observed no measure in serving His Majesty, and in using
my whole life and strength and health therein; and I would not
have any fault of mine rob me of the slightest degree
of fruition.

3. And so I say that if I were asked which I preferred, to endure
all the trials of the world until the end of it, and then receive
one slight degree of glory additional, or without any suffering
of any kind to enter into glory of a slightly lower degree, I
would accept--oh, how willingly!--all those trials for one slight
degree of fruition in the contemplation of the greatness of God;
for I know that he who understands Him best, loves Him and
praises Him best.  I do not mean that I should not be satisfied,
and consider myself most blessed, to be in heaven, even if I
should be in the lowest place; for as I am one who had that place
in hell, it would be a great mercy of our Lord to admit me at
all; and may it please His Majesty to bring me thither, and take
away His eyes from beholding my grievous sins. What I mean is
this,--if it were in my power, even if it cost me everything, and
our Lord gave me the grace to endure much affliction, I would not
through any fault of mine lose one degree of glory.  Ah, wretched
that I am, who by so many faults had forfeited all!

4. It is also to be observed that, in every vision or revelation
which our Lord in His mercy sent me, a great gain accrued to my
soul, and that in some of the visions this gain was very great.
The vision of Christ left behind an impression of His exceeding
beauty, and it remains with me to this day.  One vision alone of
Him is enough to effect this; what, then, must all those visions
have done, which our Lord in His mercy sent me? One exceedingly
great blessing has resulted therefrom, and it is this,--I had one
very grievous fault, which was the source of much evil; namely,
whenever I found anybody well disposed towards myself, and I
liked him, I used to have such an affection for him as compelled
me always to remember and think of him, though I had no intention
of offending God: however, I was pleased to see him, to think of
him and of his good qualities.  All this was so hurtful, that it
brought my soul to the very verge of destruction.

5. But ever since I saw the great beauty [4] of our Lord, I never
saw any one who in comparison with Him seemed even endurable, or
that could occupy my thoughts.  For if I but turn mine eyes
inwardly for a moment to the contemplation of the image which I
have within me, I find myself so free, that from that instant
everything I see is loathsome in comparison with the excellences
and graces of which I had a vision in our Lord.  Neither is there
any sweetness, nor any kind of pleasure, which I can make any
account of, compared with that which comes from hearing but one
word from His divine mouth.  What, then, must it be when I hear
so many?  I look upon it as impossible--unless our Lord, for my
sins, should permit the loss of this remembrance--that I should
have the power to occupy myself with anything in such a way as
that I should not instantly recover my liberty by thinking of
our Lord.

6. This has happened to me with some of my confessors, for I
always have a great affection for those who have the direction of
my soul.  As I really saw in them only the representatives of
God, I thought my will was always there where it is most
occupied; and as I felt very safe in the matter, I always showed
myself glad to see them. [5]  They, on the other hand, servants
of God, and fearing Him, were afraid that I was attaching and
binding myself too much to them, though in a holy way, and
treated me with rudeness.  This took place after I had become so
ready to obey them; for before that time I had no affection
whatever for them.  I used to laugh to myself, when I saw how
much they were deceived.  Though I was not always putting before
them how little I was attached to anybody, as clearly as I was
convinced of it myself, yet I did assure them of it; and they, in
their further relations with me, acknowledged how much I owed to
our Lord in the matter.  These suspicions of me always arose in
the beginning.

7. My love of, and trust in, our Lord, after I had seen Him in a
vision, began to grow, for my converse with Him was so continual.
I saw that, though He was God, He was man also; that He is not
surprised at the frailties of men, that He understands our
miserable nature, liable to fall continually, because of the
first sin, for the reparation of which He had come.  I could
speak to Him as to a friend, though He is my Lord, because I do
not consider Him as one of our earthly Lords, who affect a power
they do not possess, who give audience at fixed hours, and to
whom only certain persons may speak.  If a poor man have any
business with these, it will cost him many goings and comings,
and currying favour with others, together with much pain and
labour before he can speak to them.  Ah, if such a one has
business with a king!  Poor people, not of gentle blood, cannot
approach him, for they must apply to those who are his friends,
and certainly these are not persons who tread the world under
their feet; for they who do this speak the truth, fear nothing,
and ought to fear nothing; they are not courtiers, because it is
not the custom of a court, where they must be silent about those
things they dislike, must not even dare to think about them, lest
they should fall into disgrace.

8. O King of glory, and Lord of all kings! oh, how Thy kingly
dignity is not hedged about by trifles of this kind!  Thy kingdom
is for ever.  We do not require chamberlains to introduce us into
Thy presence.  The very vision of Thy person shows us at once
that Thou alone art to be called Lord.  Thy Majesty is so
manifest that there is no need of a retinue or guard to make us
confess that Thou art King.  An earthly king without attendants
would be hardly acknowledged; and though he might wish ever so
much to be recognised, people will not own him when he appears as
others; it is necessary that his dignity should be visible, if
people are to believe in it.  This is reason enough why kings
should affect so much state; for if they had none, no one would
respect them; this their semblance of power is not in themselves,
and their authority must come to them from others.

9. O my Lord!  O my King! who can describe Thy Majesty?  It is
impossible not to see that Thou art Thyself the great Ruler of
all, that the beholding of Thy Majesty fills men with awe.  But I
am filled with greater awe, O my Lord, when I consider Thy
humility, and the love Thou hast for such as I am.  We can
converse and speak with Thee about everything whenever we will;
and when we lose our first fear and awe at the vision of Thy
Majesty, we have a greater dread of offending Thee,--not arising
out of the fear of punishment, O my Lord, for that is as nothing
in comparison with the loss of Thee!

10. Thus far of the blessings of this vision, without speaking of
others, which abide in the soul when it is past.  If it be from
God, the fruits thereof show it, when the soul receives light;
for, as I have often said, [6] the will of our Lord is that the
soul should be in darkness, and not see this light.  It is,
therefore, nothing to be wondered at that I, knowing myself to be
so wicked as I am, should be afraid.

11. It is only just now it happened to me to be for eight days in
a state wherein it seemed that I did not, and could not, confess
my obligations to God, or remember His mercies; but my soul was
so stupefied, and occupied with I know not what nor how: not that
I had any bad thoughts; only I was so incapable of good thoughts,
that I was laughing at myself, and even rejoicing to see how mean
a soul can be if God is not always working in it. [7]  The soul
sees clearly that God is not away from it in this state, and that
it is not in those  great tribulations which I have spoken of as
being occasionally mine.  Though it heaps up fuel, and does the
little it can do of itself, it cannot make the fire of the love
of God burn: it is a great mercy that even the smoke is visible,
showing that it is not altogether quenched.  Our Lord will return
and kindle it; and until then the soul--though it may lose its
breath in blowing and arranging the fuel--seems to be doing
nothing but putting it out more and more.

12. I believe that now the best course is to be absolutely
resigned, confessing that we can do nothing, and so apply
ourselves--as I said before [8]--to something else which is
meritorious.  Our Lord, it may be, takes away from the soul the
power of praying, that it may betake itself to something else,
and learn by experience how little it can do in its own strength.

13. It is true I have this day been rejoicing in our Lord, and
have dared to complain of His Majesty.  I said unto Him: How is
it, O my God, that it is not enough for Thee to detain me in this
wretched life, and that I should have to bear with it for the
love of Thee, and be willing to live where everything hinders the
fruition of Thee; where, besides, I must eat and sleep, transact
business, and converse with every one, and all for Thy love? how
is it, then,--for Thou well knowest, O my Lord, all this to be
the greatest torment unto me,--that, in the rare moments when I
am with Thee, Thou hidest Thyself from me?  How is this
consistent with Thy compassion?  How can that love Thou hast for
me endure this?  I believe, O Lord, if it were possible for me to
hide myself from Thee, as Thou hidest Thyself from me--I think
and believe so--such is Thy love, that Thou wouldest not endure
it at my hands.  But Thou art with me, and seest me always.  O my
Lord, I beseech Thee look to this; it must not be; a wrong is
done to one who loves Thee so much.

14. I happened to utter these words, and others of the same kind,
when I should have been thinking rather how my place in hell was
pleasant in comparison with the place I deserved.  But now and
then my love makes me foolish, so that I lose my senses; only it
is with all the sense I have that I make these complaints, and
our Lord bears it all.  Blessed be so good a King!

