
The last of those Councillours, which were made after the
faction prævayled in Parliament, who were all made to advance an
accommodation, and who adhered to the Parliament, was the L'd Say, a
man who had the deepest hande in the originall contrivance of all the
calamityes which befell that unhappy kingdome, though he had not the
least thought of dissolvinge the Monarchy, and lesse of levellinge the
rankes and distinctions of men, for no man valewed himselfe more upon
his title, or had more ambition to make it greater, and to rayse his
fortune, which was but moderate for his title. He was of a prowde,
morose, and sullen nature, conversed much with bookes, havinge bene
bredd a scholar, and (though nobly borne) a fellow of New-Colledge in
Oxforde, to which he claymed a right, by the Allyance he prætended to
have from William of Wickam the Founder, which he made good by such
an unreasonable Pedigre through so many hundred yeeres, halfe the tyme
wherof extinguishes all relation of kinred, however upon that pretence
that Colledge hath bene seldome without one of that L'ds family. His
parts were not quicke, but so much above those of his owne ranke, that
he had alwayes greate creditt and authority in Parliament, and the
more for takinge all opportunityes to oppose the Courte, and had with
his milke sucked in an implacable malice against the goverment of the
Church. When the Duke of Buckingham proposed to himselfe after his
returne with the Prince from Spayne, to make himselfe popular, by
breakinge that match, and to be gratious with the Parliament, as for
a shorte tyme he was, he resolved to imbrace the frendshipp of the
L'd Say, who was as sollicitous to climbe by that ladder, but the Duke
quickly founde him of to imperious and pedanticall a spiritt, and to
affecte to daungerous mutations, and so cast him off; and from that
tyme, he gave over any pursuite in Courte, and lived narrowly and
sordidly in the country, havinge conversation with very few, but such
who had greate malignity against the church and State, and fomented
ther inclinations and gave them instructions how to behave themselfes
with caution and to do ther businesse with most security, and was in
truth the Pylott that steered all those vessells which were fraighted
with sedition to destroy the goverment. He founde alwayes some way to
make professions of duty to the Kinge and made severall undertakings
to do greate services, which he could not, or would not make good, and
made hast to possesse himselfe of any præferment he could compasse,
whilst his frends were content to attende a more proper conjuncture,
so he gott the Mastershipp of the Wards shortly after the beginninge
of the Parliament, and was as sollicitous to be Treasurer, after the
death of the Earle of Bedforde, and if he could have satisfyed his
rancour in any degree against the Church, he would have bene ready to
have carryed the Prærogative as high as ever it was. When he thought
ther was mischieve enough done, he would have stopped the current and
have deverted farther fury, but he then founde he had only authority
and creditt to do hurte, none to heale the wounds he had given; and
fell into as much contempt with those whome he had ledde, as he was
with those whome he had undone.


49.

JOHN SELDEN.

_Born 1584. Died 1654._

By CLARENDON.


M'r Selden, was a person whome no character can flatter, or transmitt
in any exspressions æquall to his meritt and virtue. He was of so
stupendious learninge in all kindes, and in all languages, (as may
appeare in his excellent and transcendent writings) that a man would
have thought, he had bene intirely conversant amongst bookes, and had
never spent an howre, but in readinge and writinge, yett his humanity,
courtesy and affability was such, that he would have bene thought
to have bene bredd in the best courtes, but that his good nature,
charity, and delight in doinge good, and in communicatinge all he
knew, exceeded that breedinge. His style in all his writings seemes
harsh and sometymes obscure, which is not wholy to be imputed to the
abstruse subjects, of which he commonly treated, out of the pathes
trodd by other men, but to a little undervalewinge the beauty of a
style, and to much propensity to the language of antiquity, but in his
conversation the most cleere discourcer, and had the best faculty, in
makinge hard things, easy, and præsentinge them to the understandinge,
of any man, that hath bene knowne. M'r Hyde was wonte to say, that he
valewed himselfe upon nothinge more, then upon havinge had M'r Seldence
acquaintance, from the tyme he was very young, and held it with greate
delight, as longe as they were suffred to continue togither in London,
and he was very much troubled alwayes, when he hearde him blamed,
censured and reproched, for stayinge in London, and in the Parliament
after they were in rebellion, and in the worst tymes, which his age
oblieged him to doe; and how wicked soever the actions were which were
every day done, he was confident he had not given his consent to them,
but would have hindred them if he could, with his owne safety, to
which he was alwayes enough indulgent: if he had some infirmityes with
other men, they were waighed downe with wounderfull and prodigious
abilityes and excellencyes in the other skale.


50.

JOHN EARLE.

_Author of 'Micro-cosmographie' 1628. Bishop of Worcester 1662, and of
Salisbury 1663._

_Born 1601. Died 1665._

By CLARENDON.


D'r Earles was at that tyme Chaplyne in the house to the Earle of
Pembroke, L'd Chamberlyne of his Majestys household, and had a
lodginge in the courte under that relation. He was a person very
notable for his elegance in the Greeke and Latine tounges, and beinge
fellow of Merton Colledge in Oxforde, and havinge bene Proctour of the
University, and some very witty and sharpe discourses beinge published
in print without his consent, though knowne to be his, he grew
suddaynely into a very generall esteem with all men, being a man of
greate piety and devotion, a most eloquent and powerfull preacher, and
of a conversation so pleasant and delightfull, so very innocent, and
so very facetious, that no mans company was more desyred, and more
loved. No man was more negligent in his dresse, and habitt, and
meene, no man more wary and cultivated in his behaviour and discourse,
insomuch as he had the greater advantage when he was knowne, by
promisinge so little before he was knowen. He was an excellent Poett
both in Latine, Greeke, and English, as appeares by many pieces
yett abroade, though he suppressed many more himselfe, especially of
English, incomparably good, out of an austerity to those sallyes of
his youth. He was very deere to the L'd Falkelande, with whome he
spent as much tyme as he could make his owne, and as that Lord would
impute the speedy progresse he made in the Greeke tounge, to the
information and assistance he had from M'r Earles, so M'r Earles would
frequently professe that he had gott more usefull learninge by his
conversation at Tew (the L'd Falkelands house) then he had at Oxforde.
In the first setlinge of the Prince his family, he was made on of
his Chaplynes, and attended on him when he was forced to leave the
kingdome, and therfore we shall often have occasyon to mention him
heareafter. He was amongst the few excellent men, who never had,
nor ever could have an enimy, but such a one who was an enimy to all
learninge and virtue, and therfore would never make himselfe knowne.


51.

JOHN HALES.

'_The Ever Memorable Mr. John Hales, of Eaton-Colledge._'

_Born 1584. Died 1656._

By CLARENDON.


M'r John Hales, had bene Greeke Professor in the University of
Oxforde, and had borne all[1] the labour of that excellent edition and
impressyon of S't Chrisostomes workes, sett out by S'r Harry Savill,
who was then Warden of Merton Colledge, when the other was fellow
of that house. He was Chaplyne in the house with S'r Dudly Carleton
Ambassador at the Hague in Hollande, at the tyme when the Synod of
Dorte was held, and so had liberty to be present at the consultations
in that assembly, and hath left the best memoriall behinde him, of the
ignorance and passyon and animosity and injustice of that Convention,
of which he often made very pleasant relations, though at that tyme
it receaved to much countenance from Englande. Beinge a person of the
greatest eminency for learninge and other abilityes, from which he
might have promised himselfe any preferment in the Church, he withdrew
himselfe from all pursuites of that kinde into a private fellowshipp
in the Colledge of Eton, wher his frende S'r Harry Savill was Provost,
wher he lyved amongst his bookes, and the most separated from the
worlde of any man then livinge, though he was not in the least degree
inclined to melancholique, but on the contrary of a very open and
pleasant conversation, and therfore was very well pleased with the
resorte of his frends to him, who were such as he had chosen, and in
whose company he delighted, and for whose sake he would sometymes,
once in a yeere, resorte to London, only to injoy ther cheerefull
conversation.

He would never take any cure of soules, and was so great a contemner
of mony, that he was wonte to say that his fellowshipp, and the
Bursers place (which for the good of the Colledge he held many yeeres)
was worth him fifty poundes a yeere more then he could spende, and
yett besydes his beinge very charitable to all poore people, even to
liberality, he had made a greater and better collection of bookes,
then were to be founde in any other private library, that I have
seene, as he had sure reade more, and carryed more about him, in his
excellent memory, then any man I ever knew, my L'd Falkelande only
excepted, who I thinke syded him. He had, whether from his naturall
temper and constitution, or from his longe retyrement from all
Crowdes, or from his profounde judgement and decerninge spiritt,
contracted some opinions, which were not receaved, nor by him
published, except in private discources, and then rather upon occasion
of dispute, than of positive opinion; and he would often say, his
opinions he was sure did him no harme, but he was farr from beinge
confident, that they might not do others harme, who entertained
them, and might entertayne other resultes from them then he did,
and therfore he was very reserved in communicatinge what he thought
himselfe in those points, in which he differed from what was receaved.

Nothinge troubled him more, then the brawles which were growne from
religion, and he therfore exceedingly detested the tyranny of
the church of Rome, more for ther imposinge uncharitably upon the
consciences of other men, then for ther errors in ther owne opinions,
and would often say, that he would renounce the religion of the church
of Englande tomorrow if it oblieged him to believe that any other
Christians should be damned: and that no body would conclude another
man to be damned, who did not wish him so: No man more stricte and
seveare to himselfe, to other men so charitable as to ther opinions,
that he thought that other men were more in faulte, for ther carriage
towards them, then the men themselves were who erred: and he thought
that pryde and passyon more then conscience were the cause of all
separation from each others communion, and he frequently sayd, that
that only kept the world from agreeinge upon such a Lyturgy, as might
bringe them into one communion, all doctrinall points upon which men
differed in ther opinions, beinge to have no place in any Liturgye.
Upon an occasionall discource with a frende of the frequent and
uncharitable reproches of Heretique and Schismatique to lightly
throwne at each other amongst men who differr in ther judgement,
he writt a little discource of Schisme, contayned in lesse then two
sheetes of paper, which beinge transmitted from frende to frende in
writing, was at last without any malice brought to the view of the
Arch-Bishopp of Canterbury Dr. Lawde, who was a very rigid survayour
of all thinges which never so little bordred upon Schisme, and thought
the Church could not be to vigilant against, and jealous of such
incursyons. He sent for M'r Hales, whome when they had both lived in
the University of Oxforde he had knowne well, and told him that he
had in truth believed him to be longe since dead, and chidd him
very kindly, for havinge never come to him, havinge bene of his old
acquaintance, then asked him whether he had lately writt a shorte
discource of Schisme, and whether he was of that opinion which that
discource implyed; he told him, that he had for the satisfaction of a
private frende (who was not of his minde) a yeere or two before,
writt such a small tracte, without any imagination that it would be
communicated, and that he believed it did not contayne any thinge that
was not agreable to the judgement of the primitive fathers; upon which
the Arch-Bishopp debated with him upon some exspressions of Irenæus,
and the most auntient fathers, and concluded with sayinge that the
tyme was very apt to sett new doctrynes on foote, of which the witts
of the Age were to susceptable, and that ther could not be to much
care taken to præserve the peace and unity of the Church, and from
thence asked him of his condition, and whether he wanted any thinge,
and the other answeringe that he had enough, and wanted nor desyred no
addition: and so dismissed him with greate courtesy, and shortly after
sent for him agayne, when ther was a Præbendary of Windsor fallen,
and told him the Kinge had given him that præferment because it lay so
convenient to his fellowshipp of Eton, which (though indeede the
most convenient præferment that could be thought of for him) the
Arch-Bishopp could not without greate difficulty perswade him to
accept, and he did accepte it rather to please him, then himselfe,
because he really believed he had enough before. He was one of the
least men in the kingdome, and one of the greatest schollers in
Europe.

[Footnote 1: 'the greatest part of' in place of 'all' in another hand
in MS.]


52.

WILLIAM CHILLINGWORTH.

_Author of 'The Religion of Protestants,' 1638._

_Born 1602. Died 1644._

By CLARENDON.


M'r Chillingworth, was of a stature little superiour to M'r Hales (and
it was an Age in which ther were many greate and wounderfull men of
that size) and a man of so grea[te] a subtlety of understandinge, and
so rare a temper in debate, that as it was impossible to provoke him
into any passyon, so it was very difficulte to keepe a mans selfe
from beinge a little discomposed by his sharpnesse and quicknesse of
argument and instances, in which he had a rare facility, and a greate
advantage over all the men I ever knew. He had spent all his younger
tyme in disputation, and had arryved to so greate a mastery, as he was
inferior to no man in those skirmishes: but he had with his notable
perfection in this exercise, contracted such an irresolution and habit
of doubtinge, that by degrees he grew confident of nothinge, and a
schepticke at least in the greatest misteryes of fayth; This made
him from first waveringe in religion and indulginge to scruples, to
reconcile himselfe to soone and to easily to the Church of Rome, and
carryinge still his owne inquisitivenesse aboute him, without any
resignation to ther authority (which is the only temper can make
that Church sure of its Proselites) havinge made a journy to S't Omers
purely to perfecte his conversion by the conversation of those who had
the greatest name, he founde as little satisfaction ther, and returned
with as much hast from them, with a beliefe that an intire exemption
from error was nether inherent in, nor necessary to, any Church; which
occasioned that warr which was carryed on by the Jesuitts with so
greate asperity and reproches against him, and in which he defended
himselfe by such an admirable eloquence of language, and the cleere
and incomparable power of reason, that he not only made them appeare
unæquall adversaryes, but carryed the warr into ther owne quarters,
and made the Popes infallibility to be as much shaken and declyned by
ther owne Doctors, and as greate an acrimony amon[g]st themselves upon
that subjecte, and to be at least as much doubted as in the schooles
of the Reformed or Protestant, and forced them since to defende and
maintayne those unhappy contraversyes in religion, with armes and
weopons of another nature, then were used or knowne in the Church of
Rome when Bellarmyne dyed: and which probably will in tyme undermyne
the very foundation that supportes it.

Such a levity and propensity to change, is commonly attended with
greate infirmityes in, and no lesse reproch and præjudice to the
person, but the sincerity of his hearte was so conspicuous, and
without the least temptation of any corrupt end, and the innocence and
candour of his nature so evident and without any perversenesse, that
all who knew him cleerely decerned, that all those restlesse motions
and fluctuation proceeded only from the warmth and jealosy of his owne
thoughts, in a to nice inquisition for truth: nether the bookes of
the Adversary, nor any of ther persons, though he was acquainted with
the best of both, had ever made greate impression upon him, all his
doubles grew out of himselfe, when he assisted his scruples with all
the strenght of his owne reason, and was then to hard for himselfe;
but findinge as little quyett and repose in those victoryes, he
quickly recover'd by a new appeale to his owne judgement, so that he
was in truth upon the matter in all his Sallyes and retreits his owne
converte, though he was not so totally devested of all thoughts of
this worlde, but that when he was ready for it he admitted some greate
and considerable Churchmen to be sharers with him, in his publique
conversion. Whilst he was in perplexity, or rather some passionate
disinclination to the religion he had bene educated in, he had the
misfortune to have much acquaintance with one M'r Lugar a minister of
that church, a man of a competency of learninge in those points most
contravened with the Romanists, but of no acute parts of witt or
judgement, and wrought so farr upon him, by weakeninge and enervating
those arguments by which he founde he was governed (as he had all the
logique and all the Rhetorique that was necessary to perswade very
powerfully men of the greatest talents) that the poore man, not able
to lyve longe in doubte, to hastily deserted his owne church, and
betooke himselfe to the Roman, nor could all the arguments and reasons
of M'r Chillingworth make him pawse in the exspedition he was usinge,
or reduce him from that Church after he had given himselfe to it, but
had alwayes a greate animosity against him, for havinge (as he sayd)
unkindly betrayed him, and carryed him into another religion, and
ther left him: So unfitt are some constitutions to be troubled with
doubtes, after they are once fixed.

He did really believe all warr to be unlawfull, and did not thinke
that the Parliament (whose proceedings he perfectly abhorred) did
intruth intende to involve the nation in a civill warr, till after the
battell of Edgehill, and then he thought any exspedient or stratagemm
that was like to putt a speedy ende to it, to be the most commendable;
and so havinge to mathematically conceaved an Engyne that should moove
so lightly, as to be a brest-worke in all incounters and assaultes in
the feilde, he carryed it to make the exsperiment into that parte of
his Majestys army, which was only in that winter season in the Feilde,
under the commaunde of the L'd Hopton in Hampshyre upon the borders
of Sussex, wher he was shutt up in the Castle of Arrundell, which was
forced after a shorte, sharpe seige, to yeild for want of victuall,
and poore M'r Chillingworth with it fallinge into the Rebells hands,
and beinge most barbarously treated by them, especially by that Clargy
which followed them, and beinge broken with sicknesse contracted by
the ill accommadation and wante of meate and fyre duringe the seige,
which was in a terrible season of frost and snow, he dyed shortly
after in pryson. He was a man of excellent parts, and of a cheerefull
disposition, voyde of all kinde of vice, and indewed with many notable
virtues, of a very publique hearte, and an indefatigable desyre to do
good; his only unhappinesse proceeded from his sleepinge to little,
and thinkinge to much, which sometymes threw him into violent feavers.


53.

EDMUND WALLER.

_Born 1606. Died 1687._

By CLARENDON.


Edmund Waller, was borne to a very fayre estate, by the parsimony
or frugality of a wise father and mother, and he thought it so
commendable an advantage, that he resolved to improove it with his
utmost care, upon which in his nature he was to much intent; and in
order to that he was so much reserved and retyred, that he was scarce
ever hearde of, till by his addresse and dexterity, he had gotten
a very rich wife in the Citty, against all the recommendation, and
countenance, and authority of the Courte, which was throughly ingaged
on the behalfe of M'r Crofts, and which used to be succesfull in
that age, against any opposition. He had the good fortune to have an
allyance and frendshipp with D'r Morly, who had assisted and instructed
him in the readinge many good bookes, to which his naturall parts and
promptitude inclined him, especially the poetts, and at the age when
other men used to give over writinge verses (for he was neere thirty
yeeres of age when he first ingaged himselfe in that exercize, at
least that he was knowen to do soe) he surpryzed the towne with two or
three pieces of that kinde, as if a tenth muse had bene newly borne,
to cherish droopinge poetry: the Doctor at that tyme brought him into
that company which was most celebrated for good conversation, wher he
was receaved and esteemed with greate applause and respecte. He was
a very pleasant discourcer in earnest and in jest, and therfore very
gratefull to all kinde of company, wher he was not the lesse esteemed,
for beinge very rich. He had bene even nurced in Parliaments, wher he
sate when he was very young,[1] and so when they were resumed agayne
(after a longe intermission,[2]) he appeared in those assemblyes
with greate advantage, havinge a gracefull way of speakinge, and
by thinkinge much upon severall arguments (which his temper and
complexion that had much of melancholique inclined him to) he
seemed often to speake upon the suddayne, when the occasyon had
only administred the opportunity of sayinge what he had throughly
considered, which gave a greate lustre to all he sayde; which yett was
rather of delight, then wayte. Ther needes no more be sayd to extoll
the excellence and power of his witt, and pleasantnesse of his
conversation, then that it was of magnitude enough to cover a world of
very greate faultes, that is so cover them, that they were not taken
notice of to his reproch, a narrownesse in his nature to the louest
degree, an abjectnesse and want of courage to supporte him in any
virtuous undertakinge, an insinuation and servile flattery to the
height the vaynest and most imperious nature could be contented with:
that it præserved and woone his life from those who were most
resolved to take it, and in an occasyon in which he ought to have
bene ambitious to have lost it, and then præserved him agayne from the
reproch and contempt that was dew to him for so præservinge it, and
for vindicatinge it at such a pryce: that it had power to reconcile
him to those whome he had most offended and provoked, and continued to
his age with that rare felicity, that his company was acceptable, wher
his spirit was odious, and he was at least pittyed, wher he was most
detested.

[Footnote 1: 'in his infancy' struck out in MS. before 'very young'.]

[Footnote 2: 'and interdiction' struck out in MS. after
'intermission'.]


54.

THOMAS HOBBES.

_Born 1588. Died 1679._

By CLARENDON.

(On Hobbes's _Leviathan_.)


I have proposed to my self, to make some Animadversions upon such
particulars, as may in my judgment produce much mischief in the World,
in a Book of great Name, and which is entertain'd and celebrated (at
least enough) in the World; a Book which contains in it good learning
of all kinds, politely extracted, and very wittily and cunningly
disgested, in a very commendable method, and in a vigorous and
pleasant Style: which hath prevailed over too many, to swallow many
new tenets as maximes without chewing; which manner of diet for
the indigestion M'r _Hobbes_ himself doth much dislike. The thorough
novelty (to which the present age, if ever any, is too much inclin'd)
of the work receives great credit and authority from the known Name
of the Author, a Man of excellent parts, of great wit, some reading,
and somewhat more thinking; One who ha's spent many years in forreign
parts and observation, understands the Learned as well as modern
Languages, hath long had the reputation of a great Philosopher and
Mathematician, and in his age hath had conversation with very many
worthy and extraordinary Men, to which, it may be, if he had bin more
indulgent in the more vigorous part of his life, it might have had
a greater influence upon the temper of his mind, whereas age seldom
submits to those questions, enquiries, and contradictions, which the
Laws and liberty of conversation require: and it hath bin alwaies a
lamentation amongst M'r _Hobbes_ his Friends, that he spent too much
time in thinking, and too little in exercising those thoughts in
the company of other Men of the same, or of as good faculties; for
want whereof his natural constitution, with age, contracted such a
morosity, that doubting and contradicting Men were never grateful to
him: In a word, M'r _Hobbes_ is one of the most antient acquaintance I
have in the World, and of whom I have alwaies had a great esteem, as
a Man who besides his eminent parts of Learning and knowledg, hath bin
alwaies looked upon as a Man of Probity, and a life free from scandal;
and it may be there are few Men now alive, who have bin longer
known to him then I have bin in a fair and friendly conversation and
sociableness.


55.

Notes by JOHN AUBREY.


I have heard his brother Edm and M'r Wayte his schoole fellow &c, say
that when he was a Boy he was playsome enough: but withall he had even
then a contemplative Melancholinesse. he would gett him into a corner,
and learne his Lesson by heart presently. His haire was black, & his
schoolefellows[1] were wont to call him Crowe.

[Footnote 1: 'his schoolefellows' written above 'the boyes'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lord Chancellour Bacon loved to converse with him. He assisted his
Lo'p: in translating severall of his Essayes into Latin, one I well
remember is[1] that, _of the Greatnes of Cities_. the rest I have
forgott. His Lo'p: was a very Contemplative person, and was wont to
contemplate in his delicious walkes at Gorambery, and dictate to M'r
Thomas Bushell or some other of his Gentlemen, that attended him
with inke & paper ready, to sett downe presently his thoughts. His
Lo'p: would often say that he better liked M'r Hobbes's taking his
Notions[2], then any of the other, because he understood what he
wrote; which the others not understanding my Lord would many times
have a hard taske to make sense of what they writt.

[Footnote 1: 'is' above 'was'.]

[Footnote 2: 'Notions' above 'thoughts'.]

It is to be remembred that about these times, M'r T.H. was much
addicted to Musique, and practised on the Base-Violl.

       *       *       *       *       *

... LEVIATHAN, the manner of writing of which Booke (he told me) was
thus. He walked much and contemplated, and he had in the head of his
staffe[1] a pen and inkehorne; carried alwayes a Note-booke in his
pocket, and as soon as a though[t][2] darted, he presently entred it
into his Booke, or otherwise[3] he might perhaps[4] have lost it. He
had drawne the Designe of the Booke into Chapters &c; so he knew where
about it would come in. Thus that Booke was made.

[Footnote 1: 'staffe' above 'Cane'.]

[Footnote 2: 'though' above 'notion'.]

[Footnote 3: 'otherwise' above 'els'.]

[Footnote 4: 'might perhaps' above 'should'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

He was marvellous happy and ready in his replies; and Replies that
without rancor, (except provoked). but now I speake of his readinesse
in replies as to witt & drollery, he would say that, he did not care
to give, neither was he adroit[1] at a present answer to a serious
quaere; he had as lieve they should have expected a[n] extemporary
solution[2] to an Arithmeticall probleme, for he turned and _winded_
& compounded in philosophy, politiques &c. as if he had been at
Analyticall[3] worke. he alwayes avoided as much as he could, to
conclude hastily.

[Footnote 1: 'adroit' above 'good'.]

[Footnote 2: 'extemporary' above 'present', 'solution' in place of
'answer'.]

[Footnote 3: 'Analyticall' above 'Mathematicall'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: His manner[1] of thinking]

He sayd that he sometimes would sett his thoughts upon researching and
contemplating, always with this Rule[2], that he very much & deeply
considered one thing at a time. Sc. a weeke, or sometimes a fortnight.

[Footnote 1: 'manner' above 'way'.]

[Footnote 2: 'Rule: Observation' above 'proviso'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Head]

In his old age he was very bald[1], which claymed a veneration; yet
within dore he used to study, and sitt bare-headed: and sayd he never
tooke cold in his head but that the greatest trouble was to keepe-off
the Flies from pitching on the baldnes: his Head was ... inches (I
have the measure) in compasse, and of a mallet forme, approved by the
Physiologers.

[Footnote 1: 'recalvus' above 'very bald'.]

[Sidenote: Eie]

He had a good Eie, and that of a hazell colour, which was full of life
& spirit, even to his last: when he was earnest, in discourse, there
shone (as it were) a bright live-coale within it. he had two kind
of Lookes: when he laught, was witty, & in a merry humour, one could
scarce see his Eies: by and by when he was serious and earnest[1], he
open'd his eies round (i.) his eielids. he had midling eies, not very
big, nor very little.

[Footnote 1: 'earnest' above 'positive'.]

[Sidenote: Stature]

He was six foote high and something better, and went indifferently
erect; or, rather considering his great age, very erect.

[Sidenote: Sight Witt]

His Sight & Witt continued to his last. He had a curious sharp sight,
as he had a sharpe Witt; which was also so sure and steady, (and
contrary to that men call Brodwittednes,) that I have heard him
oftentimes say, that in Multiplying & Dividing he never mistooke a
figure[1]: and so, in other things. He thought much & with excellent
Method, & Stedinesse, which made him seldome make a false step.

[Footnote 1: 'never ... figure' above 'was never out' ('out' corrected
to 'mistooke').]

[Sidenote: Reading]

He had read much, if one considers his long life; but his
Contemplation was much more then his Reading. He was wont to say that,
if he _had read as much as other men, he should have knowne no more
then[1] other men_.

[Footnote 1: 'knowne ... then' above 'continued still as ignorant
as'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Singing]

He had alwayes bookes of prick-song lyeing on his Table: e.g. of H.
Lawes &c. Songs: which at night when he was a bed, & the dores made
fast, & was sure no body heard him, he sang _aloud_, (not that he had
a very good voice) but to cleare his pipes[1]: he did beleeve it did
his Lunges good, & conduced much to prolong his life.

[Footnote 1: 'to cleare his pipes' above 'for his healths sake'.]


56.

THOMAS FULLER.

_Born 1608. Died 1661._


He was of Stature somewhat Tall, exceeding the meane, with a
proportionable bigness to become it, but no way inclining to
Corpulency: of an exact Straightnesse of the whole Body, and a perfect
Symmetry in every part thereof. He was of a Sanguine constitution,
which beautified his Face with a pleasant Ruddinesse, but of so
Grave and serious an aspect, that it Awed and Discountenanced the
smiling Attracts of that complexion. His Head Adorned with a comely
Light-Coloured Haire, which was so, by Nature exactly Curled (an
Ornament enough of it self in this Age to Denominate a handsome
person, and wherefore all Skill and Art is used) but not suffered to
overgrow to any length unseeming his modesty and Profession.

His Gate and Walking was very upright and graceful, becoming his well
shapen Bulke: approaching something near to that we terme Majesticall;
but that the Doctor was so well known to be void of any affectation or
pride. Nay so Regardlesse was he of himselfe in his Garb and Rayment,
in which no doubt his Vanity would have appeared, as well as in his
stately pace: that it was with some trouble to himselfe, to be either
Neat or Decent; it matter'd not for the outside, while he thought
himself never too Curious and Nice in the Dresses of his mind.

Very Carelesse also he was to seeming inurbanity in the modes of
Courtship and demeanour, deporting himself much according to the old
_English_ Guise, which for its ease and simplicity suited very well
with the Doctor, whose time was designed for more Elaborate businesse:
and whose MOTTO might have been sincerity.

As inobservant he was of persons, unless businesse with them, or his
concerns pointed them out and adverted him; seeing and discerning were
two things: often in several places, hath he met with Gentlemen of
his nearest and greatest Acquaintance, at a full rencounter and stop,
whom he hath endeavoured to passe by, not knowing, that is to say,
not minding of them, till rectifyed and recalled by their familiar
compellations.

This will not (it may be presumed) and justly cannot be imputed unto
any indisposednesse and unaptnesse of his Nature, which was so far
from Rude and untractable, that it may be confidently averred, he
was the most complacent person in the Nation, as his Converse and
Writings, with such a freedome of Discourse and quick Jocundity of
style, do sufficiently evince.

He was a perfect walking Library, and those that would finde delight
in him must turn him; he was to be diverted from his present purpose
with some urgency: and when once Unfixed and Unbent, his mind freed
from the incumbency of his Study; no Man could be more agreeable to
Civil and Serious mirth, which limits his most heightned Fancy never
transgressed.

He had the happinesse of a very Honourable, and that very numerous
acquaintance, so that he was noway undisciplined in the Arts of
Civility; yet he continued _semper idem_, which constancy made him
alwaies acceptable to them. At his Diet he was very sparing and
temperate, but yet he allowed himself the repasts and refreshings
of two Meals a day: but no lover of Danties, or the Inventions of
Cookery: solid meats better fitting his strength of Constitution; but
from drink very much abstemious, which questionlesse was the cause
of that uninterrupted Health he enjoyed till this his First and Last
sicknesse: of which Felicity as he himself was partly the cause of by
his exactnesse in eating and drinking, so did he the more dread the
sudden infliction of any Disease, or other violence of Nature, fearing
this his care might amount to a presumption, in the Eyes of the great
Disposer of all things, and so it pleased GOD it should happen.

But his great abstinence of all was from Sleep, and strange it was
that one of such a Fleshly and sanguine composition, could overwatch
so many heavy propense inclinations to Rest. For this in some sort
he was beholden to his care in Diet aforesaid, (the full Vapours of
a repletion in the Stomack ascending to the Brain, causing that usual
Drowsinesse we see in many) but most especially to his continual
custome, use, and practise, which had so subdued his Nature, that it
was wholy Governed by his Active and Industrious mind.

And yet this is a further wonder: he did scarcely allow himself, from
his First Degree in the University, any Recreation or Easie Exercise,
no not so much as walking, but very Rare and Seldome; and that not
upon his own choice, but as being compelled by friendly, yet, Forcible
Invitations; till such time as the War posted him from place to place,
and after that his constant attendance on the Presse in the Edition
of his Books: when was a question, which went the fastest, his Head or
his Feet: so that in effect he was a very stranger, if not an Enemy to
all pleasure.

Riding was the most pleasant, because his necessary convenience; the
Doctors occasions, especially his last work, requiring Travel, to
which he had so accustomed himself: so that this Diversion, (like
Princes Banquets only to be lookt upon by them, not tasted of) was
rather made such then enjoyed by him.

So that if there were any Felicity or Delight, which he can be truly
said to have had: it was either in his Relations or in his Works. As
to his Relations, certainly, no man was more a tender, more indulgent
a Husband and a Father: his Conjugal Love in both matches being
equally blest with the same Issue, kept a constant Tenour in both
Marriages, which he so improved, that the Harmony of his Affections
still'd all Discord, and Charmed the noyse of passion.

Towards the Education of his Children, he was exceeding carefull,
allowing them any thing conducing to that end, beyond the present
measure of his estate; which its well hoped will be returned to the
Memory of so good a Father, in their early imitation of him in all
those good Qualities and Literature, to which they have now such an
Hereditary clayme.

As to his Books, which we usually call the Issue of the Brain, he was
more then Fond, totally abandoning and forsaking all things to follow
them. And yet if Correction and Severity (so this may be allowed the
gravity of the Subject) be also the signes of Love: a stricter and
more carefull hand was never used. True it is they did not grow up
without some errours, like the Tares: nor can the most refined pieces
of any of his Antagonists boast of perfection. He that goes an unknown
and beaten Track in a Dubious way, though he may have good directions,
yet if in the journey he chance to stray, cannot well be blamed; they
have perchance plowed with his Heifer, and been beholden to those
Authorities (for their Exceptions) which he first gave light to.

To his Neighbours and Friends he behaved himselfe with that
chearfulnesse and plainnesse of Affection and respect, as deservedly
gained him their Highest esteeme: from the meanest to the highest
he omitted nothing what to him belonged in his station, either in
a familiar correspondency, or necessary Visits; never suffering
intreaties of that which either was his Duty, or in his power to
perform. The quickness of his apprehension helped by a Good Nature,
presently suggested unto him (without putting them to the trouble of
an _innuendo_) what their severall Affairs required, in which he would
spare no paynes: insomuch that it was a piece of Absolute Prudence
to rely upon his Advice and Assistance. In a word, to his Superiours
he was Dutifully respectfull without Ceremony or Officiousnesse;
to his equalls he was Discreetly respectful, without neglect or
unsociableness; and to his Inferiours, (whom indeed he judged
Christianly none to be) civilly respectfull without Pride or Disdain.

But all these so eminent vertues, and so sublimed in him, were but
as foyles to those excellent gifts wherewith God had endued his
intellectuals. He had a Memory of that vast comprehensiveness, that he
is deservedly known for the first inventer of that Noble Art, whereof
having left behind him no Rules, or directions, save, onely what fell
from him in discours, no further account can be given, but a relation
of some very rare experiments of it made by him.

He undertook once in passing to and fro from _Templebar_ to the
furthest Conduit in _Cheapside_, at his return again to tell every
Signe as they stood in order on both sides of the way, repeating them
either backward or forward, as they should chuse, which he exactly
did, not missing or misplacing one, to the admiration of those that
heard him.

The like also would he doe in words of different Languages, and of
hard and difficult prolation, to any number whatsoever: but that which
was most strange, and very rare in him, was his way of writing, which
something like the _Chineses_, was from the top of the page to the
bottom: the manner thus. He would write near the Margin the first
words of every Line down to the Foot of the Paper, then would he
begining at the head againe, fill up every one of these Lines, which
without any interlineations or spaces but with the full and equal
length, would so adjust the sense and matter, and so aptly Connex and
Conjoyn the ends and beginnings of the said Lines, that he could
not do it better, as he hath said, if he had writ all out in a
Continuation.


57.

JOHN MILTON.

_Born 1608. Died 1674._

Notes by JOHN AUBREY.


He was of middle stature,[1] he had light abroun[2] hayre, his
complexion exceeding[3] faire. he was so faire, that they called him
the Lady of Christs college. ovall face. his eie a darke gray.... he
was a Spare man.

[Footnote 1: Aubrey wrote first 'He was scarce so tall as I am'; then
added above the last six words, 'q[uaere] quot feet I am high'; and
then above this 'Resp: of middle stature'.]

[Footnote 2: 'abroun' (i.e. auburn) written above 'browne'.]

[Footnote 3: 'exceeding' above 'very'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

He was an early riser: Sc: at 4 a clock manè. yea, after he lost
his sight: He had a man read to him: The first thing he read was the
Hebrew bible, and that was at 4'h. manè 1/2'h.+. Then he contemplated.
At 7 his man came to him again & then read to him and wrote till
dinner: the writing was as much as the reading. His daughter Deborah
2[1] could read to him Latin, Italian, & French, & Greeke; married in
Dublin to one M'r Clarke [sells silke &c[2]] very like her father. The
other sister is Mary 1[1], more like her mother. After dinner he usd
to walke 3 or 4 houres at a time, he alwayes had a Garden where he
lived: went to bed about 9. Temperate, rarely drank between meales.
Extreme pleasant in his conversation, & at dinner, supper &c: but
Satyricall. He pronounced the letter R very hard. a certaine signe of
a Satyricall Witt. from Jo. Dreyden.

[Footnote 1: '2' and '1', marking seniority, above the names.]

[Footnote 2: 'sells silke &c' above 'a Mercer'.]

[Sidenote: Litera Canina.]

He had a delicate tuneable Voice & had good skill: his father
instructed him: he had an Organ in his house: he played on that most.
His exercise was chiefly walking.

He was visited much by learned[1]: more then he did desire.

[Footnote 1: 'by learned' added above the line.]

He was mightily importuned to goe into France & Italie. Foraigners
came much to see him, and much admired him, & offered to him great
preferments to come over to them, & the only inducement of severall
foreigners that came over into England, was chifly to see O. Protector
& M'r J. Milton, and would see _the house and chamber_ wher _he_ was
borne: he was much more admired abrode then at home.

       *       *       *       *       *

His harmonicall, and ingeniose soule did lodge[1] in a beautifull and
well proportioned body--In toto nusquam corpore menda fuit. Ovid.

[Footnote 1: 'did lodge' above 'dwelt'.]

He had a very good memory: but I believe that his excellent Method of
thinking, & disposing did much helpe his memorie.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of a very cheerfull humour.

He was very healthy, & free from all diseases, seldome tooke any
Physique, only sometimes he tooke Manna[1], and only towards his
later end he was visited with the Gowte--Spring & Fall: he would be
chearfull even in his Gowte-fitts: & sing.

[Footnote 1: 'seldome ... Manna' added above the line.]

He died of the gowt struck in the 9th or 10th of Novemb 1674, as
appeares by his Apothecaryes Booke.


58.

Note by EDWARD PHILLIPS.


There is another very remarkable Passage in the Composure of this Poem
[_Paradise Lost_], which I have a particular occasion to remember;
for whereas I had the perusal of it from the very beginning; for some
years as I went from time to time to Visit him, in a Parcel of Ten,
Twenty, or Thirty Verses at a Time, which being Written by whatever
hand came next, might possibly want Correction as to the Orthography
and Pointing; having as the Summer came on, not been shewed any for
a considerable while, and desiring the reason thereof, was answered,
That his Veine never happily flow'd, but from the _Autumnal
Equinoctial_ to the _Vernal_, and that whatever he attempted was never
to his satisfaction, though he courted his fancy never so much; so
that in all the years he was about this Poem, he may be said to have
spent but half his time therein.


59.

Notes by JONATHAN RICHARDSON.


One that had Often seen him, told me he us'd to come to a House where
He Liv'd, and he has also Met him in the Street, Led by _Millington_,
the same who was so Famous an Auctioneer of Books about the time of
the Revolution, and Since. This Man was then a Seller of Old Books
in _Little Britain_, and _Milton_ lodg'd at his house. This was 3
or 4 Years before he Dy'd. he then wore no Sword that My Informer
remembers, though Probably he did, at least 'twas his Custom not long
before to wear one with a Small Silver-Hilt, and in Cold Weather a
Grey Camblet Coat....

I have heard many Years Since that he Us'd to Sit in a Grey Coarse
Cloth Coat at the Door of his House, near _Bun-hill_ Fields Without
_Moor-gate_, in Warm Sunny Weather to Enjoy the Fresh Air, and So, as
well as in his Room, receiv'd the Visits of People of Distinguished
Parts, as well as Quality, and very Lately I had the Good Fortune
to have Another Picture of him from an Ancient Clergyman in
_Dorsetshire_, Dr. _Wright_; He found him in a Small House, he thinks
but One Room on a Floor; in That, up One pair of Stairs, which was
hung with a Rusty Green, he found _John Milton_, Sitting in an Elbow
Chair, Black Cloaths, and Neat enough, Pale, but not Cadaverous, his
Hands and Fingers Gouty, and with Chalk Stones. among Other Discourse
He exprest Himself to This Purpose; that was he Free from the Pain
This gave him, his Blindness would be Tolerable.

       *       *       *       *       *

... besides what Affliction he Must have from his Disappointment on
the Change of the Times, and from his Own Private Losses, and probably
Cares for Subsistence, and for his Family; he was in Perpetual Terror
of being Assassinated, though he had Escap'd the Talons of the Law, he
knew he had Made Himself Enemies in Abundance. he was So Dejected he
would lie Awake whole Nights. He then kept Himself as Private as he
could. This Dr. _Tancred Robinson_ had from a Relation of _Milton's_,
Mr. _Walker_ of the Temple. and This is what is Intimated by Himself,
VII. 26.

    _On Evil Daies though fall'n and Evil Tongues, in Darkness,
    and with Dangers compast round, and Solitude_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. _Bendish_ has heard the Widow or Daughter or Both say it, that
Soon after the Restauration the King Offer'd to Employ this Pardon'd
Man as his Latin Secretary, the Post in which he Serv'd _Cromwell_
with So much Integrity and Ability; (that a like Offer was made to
_Thurlow_ is not Disputed as ever I heard) _Milton_ Withstood the
Offer; the Wife press'd his Compliance. _Thou art in the Right_ (says
he) _You, as Other Women, would ride in your Coach; for Me, My Aim is
to Live and Dye an Honest Man_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Other Stories I have heard concerning the Posture he was Usually in
when he Dictated, that he Sat leaning Backward Obliquely in an Easy
Chair, with his Leg flung over the Elbow of it. that he frequently
Compos'd lying in Bed in a Morning ('twas Winter Sure Then) I have
been Well inform'd, that when he could not Sleep, but lay Awake whole
Nights, he Try'd; not One Verse could he make; at Other times flow'd
_Easy his Unpremeditated Verse_, with a certain _Impetus_ and _Æstro_,
as Himself seem'd to Believe. Then, at what Hour soever, he rung
for his Daughter to Secure what Came. I have been also told he would
Dictate many, perhaps 40 Lines as it were in a Breath, and then reduce
them to half the Number.


60.

ABRAHAM COWLEY.

_Born 1618. Died 1667._

_Of My self._


It is a hard and nice Subject for a man to write of himself, it grates
his own heart to say any thing of disparagement, and the Readers Eares
to hear any thing of praise from him. There is no danger from me
of offending him in this kind; neither my Mind, nor my Body, nor my
Fortune, allow me any materials for that Vanity. It is sufficient, for
my own contentment, that they have preserved me from being scandalous,
or remarkable on the defective side. But besides that, I shall here
speak of myself, only in relation to the subject of these precedent
discourses, and shall be likelier thereby to fall into the contempt,
then rise up to the estimation of most people. As far as my Memory
can return back into my past Life, before I knew, or was capable
of guessing what the world, or glories, or business of it were, the
natural affections of my soul gave me a secret bent of aversion
from them, as some Plants are said to turn away from others, by
an Antipathy imperceptible to themselves, and inscrutable to mans
understanding. Even when I was a very young Boy at School, instead of
running about on Holy-daies and playing with my fellows, I was wont to
steal from them, and walk into the fields, either alone with a Book,
or with some one Companion, if I could find any of the same temper.
I was then too, so much an Enemy to all constraint, that my Masters
could never prevail on me, by any perswasions or encouragements,
to learn without Book the common rules of Grammar, in which they
dispensed with me alone, because they found I made a shift to do the
usual exercise out of my own reading and observation. That I was then
of the same mind as I am now (which I confess, I wonder at my self)
may appear by the latter end of an Ode, which I made when I was but
thirteen years old, and which was then printed with many other Verses.
The Beginning of it is Boyish, but of this part which I here set down
(if a very little were corrected) I should hardly now be much ashamed.

9.

  This only grant me, that my means may lye
  Too low for Envy, for Contempt too high.
    Some Honor I would have
  Not from great deeds, but good alone.
  The unknown are better than ill known.
    Rumour can ope' the Grave,
  Acquaintance I would have, but when 't depends
  Not on the number, but the choice of Friends.

10.

  Books should, not business, entertain the Light,
  And sleep, as undisturb'd as Death, the Night.
    My House a Cottage, more
  Then Palace, and should fitting be
  For all my Use, no Luxury.
    My Garden painted o're
  With Natures hand, not Arts; and pleasures yeild,
  _Horace_ might envy in his Sabine field.

11.

  Thus would I double my Lifes fading space,
  For he that runs it well, twice runs his race.
    And in this true delight,
  These unbought sports, this happy State,
  I would not fear nor wish my fate,
    But boldly say each night,
  To morrow let my Sun his beams display,
  Or in clouds hide them; I have liv'd to Day.

You may see by it, I was even then acquainted with the Poets (for the
Conclusion is taken out of _Horace_;) and perhaps it was the immature
and immoderate love of them which stampt first, or rather engraved
these Characters in me: They were like Letters cut into the Bark of
a young Tree, which with the Tree still grow proportionably. But, how
this love came to be produced in me so early, is a hard question: I
believe I can tell the particular little chance that filled my head
first with such Chimes of Verse, as have never since left ringing
there: For I remember when I began to read, and to take some pleasure
in it, there was wont to lie in my Mothers Parlour (I know not by
what accident, for she her self never in her life read any Book but of
Devotion) but there was wont to lie _Spencers_ Works; this I happened
to fall upon, and was infinitely delighted with the Stories of the
Knights, and Giants, and Monsters, and brave Houses, which I found
every where there: (Though my understanding had little to do with all
this) and by degrees with the tinckling of the Rhyme and Dance of the
Numbers, so that I think I had read him all over before I was twelve
years old, and was thus made a Poet as immediately [1] as a Child is
made an Eunuch. With these affections of mind, and my heart wholly set
upon Letters, I went to the University; But was soon torn from thence
by that violent Publick storm which would suffer nothing to stand
where it did, but rooted up every Plant, even from the Princely Cedars
to Me, the Hyssop. Yet I had as good fortune as could have befallen me
in such a Tempest; for I was cast by it into the Family of one of the
best Persons, and into the Court of one of the best Princesses of the
World. Now though I was here engaged in wayes most contrary to the
Original design of my life, that is, into much company, and no small
business, and into a daily sight of Greatness, both Militant and
Triumphant (for that was the state then of the _English_ and _French_
Courts) yet all this was so far from altering my Opinion, that it
oncly added the confirmation of Reason to that which was before but
Natural Inclination. I saw plainly all the Paint of that kind of Life,
the nearer I came to it; and that Beauty which I did not fall in Love
with, when, for ought I knew, it was reall, was not like to bewitch,
or intice me, when I saw that it was Adulterate. I met with several
great Persons, whom I liked very well, but could not perceive that
any part of their Greatness was to be liked or desired, no more then
I would be glad, or content to be in a Storm, though I saw many Ships
which rid safely and bravely in it: A storm would not agree with my
stomach, if it did with my Courage. Though I was in a croud of as good
company as could be found any where, though I was in business of great
and honourable trust, though I eate at the best Table, and enjoyed the
best conveniences for present subsistance that ought to be desired
by a man of my condition in banishment and publick distresses, yet I
could not abstain from renewing my old School-boys Wish in a Copy of
Verses to the same effect.

  Well then; I now do plainly see
  This busie World and I shall ne're agree, &c.

And I never then proposed to my self any other advantage from His
Majesties Happy Restoration, but the getting into some moderately
convenient Retreat in the Country, which I thought in that case I
might easily have compassed, as well as some others, who[2] with
no greater probabilities or pretences have arrived to extraordinary
fortunes: But I had before written a shrewd Prophesie against my
self, and I think _Apollo_ inspired me in the Truth, though not in the
Elegance of it.

  Thou, neither great at Court nor in the War,
  Nor at th' Exchange shal't be, nor at the wrangling Barr;
  Content thy self with the small barren praise
  Which neglected Verse does raise, &c.

However by the failing of the Forces which I had expected, I did not
quit the Design which I had resolved on, I cast my self into it _A
Corps perdu_, without making capitulations, or taking counsel of
Fortune. But God laughs at a Man, who sayes to his Soul, _Take thy
ease_: I met presently not onely with many little encumbrances and
impediments, but with so much sickness (a new misfortune to me) as
would have spoiled the happiness of an Emperour as well as Mine:
Yet I do neither repent nor alter my course. _Non ego perfidum Dixi
Sacramentum_; Nothing shall separate me from a Mistress, which I have
loved so long, and have now at last married; though she neither has
brought me a rich Portion, nor lived yet so quietly with me as I hoped
from Her.

      --_Nec vos, dulcissima mundi
  Nomina, vos Musæ, Libertas, Otia, Libri,
  Hortique Syluæq; anima remanente relinquam._

      Nor by me ere shall you,
  You of all Names the sweetest, and the best,
  You Muses, Books, and Liberty and Rest;
  You Gardens, Fields, and Woods forsaken be,
  As long as Life it self forsakes not Me.

[Footnote 1: 'irremediably' text 1668, 'immediately' errata 1668.]

[Footnote 2: 'who' omitted 1668, inserted 1669.]


61.

By THOMAS SPRAT.


I think it fit to direct my Speech concerning him, by the same rule
by which he was wont to judge of others. In his esteem of other men,
he constantly prefer'd the good temper of their minds, and honesty
of their Actions, above all the excellencies of their Eloquence or
Knowledge. The same course I will take in his praise, which chiefly
ought to be fixed on his life. For that he deserves more applause from
the most virtuous men, than for his other abilities he ever obtained
from the Learned.

He had indeed a perfect natural goodness, which neither the
uncertainties of his condition, nor the largeness of his wit could
pervert. He had a firmness and strength of mind, that was of proof
against the Art of Poetry it self. Nothing vain or fantastical,
nothing flattering or insolent appeared in his humour. He had a great
integrity, and plainness of Manners; which he preserv'd to the last,
though much of his time was spent in a Nation, and way of life, that
is not very famous for sincerity. But the truth of his heart was above
the corruption of ill examples: And therefore the sight of them rather
confirm'd him in the contrary Virtues.

There was nothing affected or singular in his habit, or person, or
gesture. He understood the forms of good breeding enough to practise
them without burdening himself, or others. He never opprest any mans
parts, nor ever put any man out of countenance. He never had any
emulation for Fame, or contention for Profit with any man. When he was
in business he suffer'd others importunities with much easiness: When
he was out of it he was never importunate himself. His modesty and
humility were so great, that if he had not had many other equal
Virtues, they might have been thought dissimulation.

His Conversation was certainly of the most excellent kind; for it was
such as was rather admired by his familiar Friends, than by Strangers
at first sight. He surpriz'd no man at first with any extraordinary
appearance: he never thrust himself violently into the good opinion of
his company. He was content to be known by leisure and by degrees: and
so the esteem that was conceiv'd of him, was better grounded and more
lasting.

In his Speech, neither the pleasantness excluded gravity, nor was the
sobriety of it inconsistent with delight. No man parted willingly from
his Discourse: for he so ordered it, that every man was satisfied that
he had his share. He govern'd his Passions with great moderation. His
Virtues were never troublesome or uneasy to any. Whatever he disliked
in others, he only corrected it, by the silent reproof of a better
practise.

His Wit was so temper'd, that no man had ever reason to wish it had
been less: he prevented other mens severity upon it by his own: he
never willingly recited any of his Writings. None but his intimate
friends ever discovered he was a great Poet, by his discourse. His
Learning was large and profound, well compos'd of all Antient and
Modern Knowledge. But it sat exceeding close and handsomly upon him:
it was not imbossed on his mind, but enamelled.

He never guided his life by the whispers, or opinions of the World.
Yet he had a great reverence for a good reputation. He hearkened to
Fame when it was a just Censurer: But not when an extravagant Babler.
He was a passionate lover of Liberty and Freedom from restraint
both in Actions and Words. But what honesty others receive from
the direction of Laws, he had by native Inclination: And he was not
beholding to other mens wills, but to his own for his Innocence.


62.

CHARLES II.

_Born 1630. Died 1685._

By HALIFAX.

_His_ DISSIMULATION.


One great Objection made to him was the concealing himself, and
disguising his Thoughts. In this there ought a Latitude to be given;
it is a Defect not to have it at all, and a Fault to have it too much.
Human Nature will not allow the Mean: like all other things, as soon
as ever Men get to do them well, they cannot easily hold from doing
them too much. 'Tis the case even in the least things, as singing, &c.

In _France_, he was to dissemble Injuries and Neglects, from one
reason; in _England_, he was to dissemble too, though for other
Causes; A King upon the _Throne_ hath as great Temptations (though of
another kind) to dissemble, as a King in _Exile_. The King of _France_
might have his Times of Dissembling as much with him, as he could have
to do it with the King of _France_: So he was in a _School_.

No King can be so little inclined to dissemble but he must needs learn
it from his _Subjects_, who every Day give him such Lessons of it.
Dissimulation is like most other Qualities, it hath two Sides; it is
necessary, and yet it is dangerous too. To have none at all layeth
a Man open to Contempt, to have too much exposeth him to Suspicion,
which is only the less dishonourable Inconvenience. If a Man doth not
take very great Precautions, he is never so much shewed as when he
endeavoureth to hide himself. One Man cannot take more pains to hide
himself, than another will do to see into him, especially in the Case
of Kings.

It is none of the exalted Faculties of the Mind, since there are
Chamber-Maids will do it better than any Prince in Christendom.
Men given to dissembling are like Rooks at play, they will cheat
for Shillings, they are so used to it. The vulgar Definition of
Dissembling is downright Lying; that kind of it which is less ill-bred
cometh pretty near it. Only Princes and Persons of Honour must have
gentler Words given to their Faults, than the nature of them may in
themselves deserve.

Princes dissemble with too many, not to have it discovered; no wonder
then that He carried it so far that it was discovered. Men compared
Notes, and got Evidence; so that those whose Morality would give them
leave, took it for an Excuse for serving him ill. Those who knew his
Face, fixed their Eyes there; and thought it of more Importance to
see, than to hear what he said. His Face was as little a Blab as most
Mens, yet though it could not be called a prattling Face, it would
sometimes tell Tales to a good Observer. When he thought fit to be
angry, he had a very peevish Memory; there was hardly a Blot that
escaped him. At the same time that this shewed the Strength of his
Dissimulation, it gave warning too; it fitted his present Purpose, but
it made a Discovery that put Men more upon their Guard against him.
Only Self-flattery furnisheth perpetual Arguments to trust again: The
comfortable Opinion Men have of themselves keepeth up Human Society,
which would be more than half destroyed without it.


_Of his WIT and CONVERSATION._

His Wit consisted chiefly in the _Quickness_ of his _Apprehension_.
His Apprehension made him _find Faults_, and that led him to short
Sayings upon them, not always equal, but often very good.

By his being abroad, he contracted a Habit of conversing familiarly,
which added to his natural Genius, made him very _apt to talk_;
perhaps more than a very nice judgment would approve.

He was apter to make _broad Allusions_ upon any thing that gave
the least occasion, than was altogether suitable with the very
Good-breeding he shewed in most other things. The Company he kept
whilst abroad, had so used him to that sort of Dialect, that he was so
far from thinking it a Fault or an Indecency, that he made it a matter
of Rallery upon those who could not prevail upon themselves to join in
it. As a Man who hath a good Stomach loveth generally to talk of Meat,
so in the vigour of his Age, he began that style, which, by degrees
grew so natural to him, that after he ceased to do it out of Pleasure,
he continued to do it out of Custom. The Hypocrisy of the former Times
inclined Men to think they could not shew too great an Aversion to
it, and that helped to encourage this unbounded liberty of Talking,
without the Restraints of Decency which were before observed. In
his more familiar Conversations with the Ladies, even they must be
passive, if they would not enter into it. How far Sounds as well
as Objects may have their Effects to raise Inclination, might be an
Argument to him to use that Style; or whether using Liberty at its
full stretch, was not the general Inducement without any particular
Motives to it.

The manner of that time of _telling Stories_, had drawn him into it;
being commended at first for the Faculty of telling a Tale well, he
might insensibly be betrayed to exercise it too often. Stories are
dangerous in this, that the best expose a Man most, by being oftenest
repeated. It might pass for an Evidence for the Moderns against the
Ancients, that it is now wholly left off by all that have any pretence
to be distinguished by their good Sense.

He had the Improvements of _Wine, &c_. which made him _pleasant_ and
_easy in Company_; where he bore his part, and was acceptable even to
those who had no other Design than to be merry with him.

The Thing called _Wit_, a Prince may taste, but it is dangerous for
him to take too much of it; it hath Allurements which by refining his
Thoughts, take off from their _dignity_, in applying them less to the
governing part. There is a Charm in Wit, which a Prince must resist:
and that to him was no easy matter; it was contesting with Nature upon
Terms of Disadvantage.

His Wit was not so ill-natured as to put Men out of countenance. In
the case of a King especially, it is more allowable to speak sharply
_of_ them, than _to_ them.

His Wit was not acquired by _Reading_; that which he had above his
original Stock by Nature, was from Company, in which he was very
capable to observe. He could not so properly be said to have a Wit
very much raised, as a plain, gaining, well-bred, recommending kind of
Wit.

But of all Men that ever _liked_ those who _had Wit_, he could the
best _endure_ those who had _none_. This leaneth more towards a Satire
than a Compliment, in this respect, that he could not only suffer
Impertinence, but at some times seemed to be pleased with it.

He encouraged some to talk a good deal more with him, than one would
have expected from a Man of so good a Taste: He should rather have
order'd his Attorney-General to prosecute them for a Misdemeanour, in
using Common-sense so scurvily in his Presence. However, if this was
a Fault, it is arrogant for any of his Subjects to object to it, since
it would look like defying such a piece of Indulgence. He must in some
degree loosen the Strength of his Wit, by his Condescension to talk
with Men so very unequal to him. Wit must be used to some _Equality_,
which may give it Exercise, or else it is apt either to languish,
or to grow a little vulgar, by reigning amongst Men of a lower Size,
where there is no Awe to keep a Man upon his _guard_.

It fell out rather by Accident than Choice, that his Mistresses
were such as did not care that Wit of the best kind should have the
Precedence in their Apartments. Sharp and strong Wit will not always
be so held in by Good-manners, as not to be a little troublesome in
a _Ruelle_. But wherever Impertinence hath Wit enough left to be
thankful for being well used, it will not only be admitted, but
kindly received; such Charms every thing hath that setteth us off by
Comparison.

His _Affability_ was a Part, and perhaps not the least, of his Wit.

It is a Quality that must not always spring from the Heart, Mens
Pride, as well as their Weakness, maketh them ready to be deceived by
it: They are more ready to believe it a Homage paid to their Merit,
than a Bait thrown out to deceive them. _Princes_ have a particular
Advantage.

There was at first as much of Art as Nature in his Affability, but by
Habit it became Natural. It is an Error of the better hand, but the
_Universality_ taketh away a good deal of the Force of it. A Man
that hath had a kind Look seconded with engaging Words, whilst he is
chewing the Pleasure, if another in his Sight should be just received
as kindly, that Equality would presently alter the Relish: The Pride
of Mankind will have Distinction; till at last it cometh to Smile for
Smile, meaning nothing of either Side; without any kind of Effect;
mere Drawing-room Compliments; the _Bow_ alone would be better without
them. He was under some Disadvantages of this kind, that grew still
in proportion as it came by Time to be more known, that there was less
Signification in those Things than at first was thought.

The Familiarity of his Wit must needs have the Effect of _lessening_
the _Distance_ fit to be kept to him. The Freedom used to him whilst
abroad, was retained by those who used it longer than either they
ought to have kept it, or he have suffered it, and others by their
Example learned to use the same. A King of _Spain_ that will say
nothing but _Tiendro cuydado_, will, to the generality, preserve
more Respect; an Engine that will speak but sometimes, at the same
time that it will draw the Raillery of the Few who judge well, it
will create Respect in the ill-judging Generality. Formality is
sufficiently revenged upon the World for being so unreasonably laughed
at; it is destroyed it is true, but it hath the spiteful Satisfaction
of seeing every thing destroyed with it.

His fine Gentlemanship did him no Good, encouraged in it by being too
much applauded.

His Wit was better suited to his Condition _before_ he was restored
than _afterwards_. The Wit of a Gentleman, and that of a crowned Head,
ought to be different things. As there is a _Crown Law_, there is a
_Crown Wit_ too. To use it with Reserve is very good, and very rare.
There is a Dignity in doing things _seldom_, even without any other
Circumstance. Where Wit will run continually, the Spring is apt to
fail; so that it groweth vulgar, and the more it is practised, the
more it is debased.

He was so good at finding out other Mens weak Sides, that it made
him less intent to cure his own: That generally happeneth. It may be
called a treacherous Talent, for it betrayeth a Man to forget to judge
himself, by being so eager to censure others: This doth so misguide
Men the first Part of their Lives, that the Habit of it is not easily
recovered, when the greater Ripeness of their Judgment inclineth them
to look more into themselves than into other Men.

Men love to see themselves in the false Looking-glass of other Mens
Failings. It maketh a Man think well of himself at the time, and by
sending his Thoughts abroad to get Food for Laughing, they are less
at leisure to see Faults at home. Men choose rather to make the War in
another Country, than to keep all well at home.


_His_ TALENTS, TEMPER, HABITS, &c.

He had a _Mechanical Head_, which appeared in his inclination to
Shipping and Fortification, &c. This would make one conclude, that
his Thoughts would naturally have been more fixed to Business, if his
Pleasures had not drawn them away from it.

He had a very good _Memory_, though he would not always make equal
good Use of it. So that if he had accustomed himself to direct his
Faculties to his Business, I see no Reason why he might not have been
a good deal Master of it. His Chain of _Memory_ was longer than his
Chain of _Thought_; the first could bear any Burden, the other was
tired by being carried on too long; it was fit to ride a Heat, but it
had not Wind enough for a long Course.

A very great Memory often forgetteth how much Time is lost by
repeating things of no Use. It was one Reason of his talking so much;
since a great Memory will always have something to say, and will be
discharging itself, whether in or out of Season, if a good Judgment
doth not go along with it, to make it stop and turn. One might say
of his Memory, that it was a _Beauté Journaliere_; Sometimes he would
make shrewd Applications, &c. at others he would bring things out of
it, that never deserved to be laid in it. He grew by Age into a pretty
exact _Distribution_ of his _Hours_, both for his Business, Pleasures,
and the Exercise for his Health, of which he took as much care as
could possibly consist with some Liberties he was resolved to indulge
in himself. He walked by his Watch, and when he pulled it out to look
upon it, skilful Men would make haste with what they had to say to
him.

He was often retained in his _personal_ against his _politick_
Capacity. He would speak upon those Occasions most dexterously against
himself; _Charles Stuart_ would be bribed against the _King_; and
in the Distinction, he leaned more to his natural Self, than his
Character would allow. He would not suffer himself to be so much
fettered by his Character as was convenient; he was still starting
out of it, the Power of Nature was too strong for the Dignity of his
Calling, which generally yielded as often as there was a contest.

It was not the best use he made of his _Back-stairs_ to admit Men
to bribe him against himself, to procure a Defalcation, help a
lame Accountant to get off, or side with the Farmers against the
Improvement of the Revenue. The King was made the Instrument to
defraud the Crown, which is somewhat extraordinary.

That which might tempt him to it probably was, his finding that those
about him so often took Money upon those Occasions; so that he thought
he might do well at least to be a Partner. He did not take the Money
to _hoard_ it; there were those at Court who watched those Times, as
the _Spaniards_ do for the coming in of the _Plate Fleet_. The Beggars
of both Sexes helped to empty his Cabinet, and to leave room in them
for a new lading upon the next Occasion. These Negotiators played
double with him too, when it was for their purpose so to do. He _knew
it_, and _went on_ still; so he gained his present end, at the time,
he was less solicitous to enquire into the Consequences.

He could not properly be said to be either _covetous_ or _liberal_;
his desire to get was not with an Intention to be rich; and his
spending was rather an Easiness in letting Money go, than any
premeditated Thought for the Distribution of it. He would do as much
to throw off the burden of a present Importunity, as he would to
relieve a want.

When once the Aversion to bear Uneasiness taketh place in a Man's
Mind, it doth so check all the Passions, that they are dampt into a
kind of Indifference; they grow faint and languishing, and come to be
subordinate to that fundamental Maxim, of not purchasing any thing at
the price of a Difficulty. This made that he had as little Eagerness
to oblige, as he had to hurt Men; the Motive of his giving Bounties
was rather to make Men less uneasy to him, than more easy to
themselves; and yet no ill-nature all this while. He would slide from
an asking Face, and could guess very well. It was throwing a Man off
from his Shoulders, that leaned upon them with his whole weight; so
that the Party was not glader to receive, than he was to give. It was
a kind of implied bargain; though Men seldom kept it, being so apt to
forget the advantage they had received, that they would presume the
King would as little remember the good he had done them, so as to make
it an Argument against their next Request.

This Principle of making the _love_ of _Ease_ exercise an entire
Sovereignty in his Thoughts, would have been less censured in a
private Man, than might be in a Prince. The Consequence of it to the
Publick changeth the Nature of that Quality, or else a Philosopher in
his private Capacity might say a great deal to justify it. The truth
is, a King is to be such a distinct Creature from a Man, that their
Thoughts are to be put in quite a differing Shape, and it is such a
disquieting task to reconcile them, that Princes might rather expect
to be lamented than to be envied, for being in a Station that exposeth
them, if they do not do more to answer Mens Expectations than human
Nature will allow.

That Men have the less Ease for their loving it so much, is so far
from a wonder, that it is a natural Consequence, especially in the
case of a Prince. Ease is seldom got without some pains, but it is yet
seldomer kept without them. He thought giving would make Men more easy
to him, whereas he might have known it would certainly make them more
troublesome.

When Men receive Benefits from Princes, they attribute less to his
Generosity than to their own Deserts; so that in their own Opinion,
their Merit cannot be bounded; by that mistaken Rule, it can as
little be satisfied. They would take it for a diminution to have it
circumscribed. Merit hath a Thirst upon it that can never be quenched
by golden Showers. It is not only still ready, but greedy to receive
more. This King _Charles_ found in as many Instances as any Prince
that ever reigned, because the Easiness of Access introducing the
good Success of their first Request, they were the more encouraged to
repeat those Importunities, which had been more effectually stopt in
the Beginning by a short and resolute Denial. But his Nature did not
dispose him to that Method, it directed him rather to put off the
troublesome Minute for the time, and that being his Inclination, he
did not care to struggle with it.

I am of an Opinion, in which I am every Day more confirmed by
Observation, that Gratitude is one of those things that cannot be
bought. It must be born with Men, or else all the Obligations in
the World will not create it. An outward Shew may be made to satisfy
Decency, and to prevent Reproach; but a real Sense of a kind thing is
a Gift of Nature, and never was, nor can be acquired.

The Love of Ease is an Opiate, it is pleasing for the time, quieteth
the Spirits, but it hath its Effects that seldom fail to be most
fatal. The immoderate Love of Ease maketh a Man's Mind pay a passive
Obedience to any thing that happeneth: It reduceth the Thoughts from
having _Desire_ to be _content_.

It must be allowed he had a little Over-balance on the well-natured
Side, not Vigour enough to be earnest to do a kind Thing, much less
to do a harsh one; but if a hard thing was done to another Man, he
did not eat his Supper the worse for it. It was rather a Deadness
than Severity of Nature, whether it proceeded from a Dissipation of
Spirits, or by the Habit of Living in which he was engaged.

If a King should be born with more Tenderness than might suit with his
Office, he would in time be hardned. The Faults of his Subjects make
Severity so necessary, that by the frequent Occasions given to use
it, it comes to be habitual, and by degrees the Resistance that Nature
made at first groweth fainter, till at last it is in a manner quite
extinguished.

In short, this Prince might more properly be said to have _Gifts_ than
_Virtues_, as Affability, Easiness of Living, Inclinations to give,
and to forgive: Qualities that flowed from his Nature rather than from
his Virtue.

He had not more Application to any thing than the Preservation of
his _Health_; it had an intire Preference to any thing else in his
Thoughts, and he might be said without Aggravation to study that, with
as little Intermission as any Man in the World. He understood it very
well, only in this he failed, that he thought it was more reconcilable
with his _Pleasures_, than it really was. It is natural to have such
a Mind to reconcile these, that 'tis the easier for any Man that goeth
about it, to be guilty of that Mistake.

This made him overdo in point of Nourishment, the better to furnish to
those Entertainments; and then he thought by great _Exercise_ to make
Amends, and to prevent the ill Effects of his Blood being too much
raised. The Success he had in this Method, whilst he had Youth and
Vigour to support him in it, encouraged him to continue it longer than
Nature allowed. Age stealeth so insensibly upon us, that we do not
think of suiting our way of Reasoning to the several Stages of Life;
so insensibly that not being able to pitch upon any _precise Time_,
when we cease to be young, we either flatter ourselves that we always
continue to be so, or at least forget how much we are mistaken in it.


63.

By BURNET.


The King was then thirty years of age, and, as might have been
supposed, past the levities of youth and the extravagance of pleasure.
He had a very good understanding. He knew well the state of affairs
both at home and abroad. He had a softness of temper that charmed all
who came near him, till they found how little they could depend on
good looks, kind words, and fair promises; in which he was liberal
to excess, because he intended nothing by them, but to get rid of
importunities, and to silence all farther pressing upon him. He seemed
to have no sense of religion: Both at prayers and sacrament he, as it
were, took care to satisfy people, that he was in no sort concerned in
that about which he was employed. So that he was very far from being
an hypocrite, unless his assisting at those performances was a sort of
hypocrisy, (as no doubt it was:) But he was sure not to encrease that
by any the least appearance of religion. He said once to my self, he
was no atheist, but he could not think God would make a man miserable
only for taking a little pleasure out of the way. He disguised his
Popery to the last. But when he talked freely, he could not help
letting himself out against the liberty that under the Reformation
all men took of enquiring into matters of religion: For from their
enquiring into matters of religion they carried the humour farther,
to enquire into matters of state. He said often, he thought government
was a much safer and easier thing where the authority was believed
infallible, and the faith and submission of the people was implicite:
About which I had once much discourse with him. He was affable and
easy, and loved to be made so by all about him. The great art of
keeping him long was, the being easy, and the making every thing easy
to him. He had made such observations on the _French_ government, that
he thought a King who might be checkt, or have his Ministers called
to an account by a Parliament, was but a King in name. He had a great
compass of knowledge, tho' he was never capable of much application
or study. He understood the Mechanicks and Physick; and was a good
Chymist, and much set on several preparations of Mercury, chiefly the
fixing it. He understood navigation well: But above all he knew the
architecture of ships so perfectly, that in that respect he was exact
rather more than became a Prince. His apprehension was quick, and his
memory good. He was an everlasting talker. He told his stories with
a good grace: But they came in his way too often. He had a very ill
opinion both of men and women; and did not think that there was either
sincerity or chastity in the world out of principle, but that some had
either the one or the other out of humour or vanity. He thought that
no body did serve him out of love: And so he was quits with all the
world, and loved others as little as he thought they loved him. He
hated business, and could not be easily brought to mind any: But when
it was necessary, and he was set to it, he would stay as long as his
Ministers had work for him. The ruine of his reign, and of all his
affairs, was occasioned chiefly by his delivering himself up at his
first coming over to a mad range of pleasure.


64.

By BURNET.


Thus lived and died King _Charles_ the second. He was the greatest
instance in history of the various revolutions of which any one man
seemed capable. He was bred up, the first twelve years of his life,
with the splendor that became the heir of so great a Crown. After
that he past thro' eighteen years in great inequalities, unhappy in
the war, in the loss of his Father, and of the Crown of _England_.
_Scotland_ did not only receive him, tho' upon terms hard of
digestion, but made an attempt upon _England_ for him, tho' a feeble
one. He lost the battle of _Worcester_ with too much indifference:
And then he shewed more care of his person, than became one who had so
much at stake. He wandered about _England_ for ten weeks after that,
hiding from place to place. But, under all the apprehensions he had
then upon him, he shewed a temper so careless, and so much turned
to levity, that he was then diverting himself with little houshold
sports, in as unconcerned a manner, as if he had made no loss, and had
been in no danger at all. He got at last out of _England_. But he had
been obliged to so many, who had been faithful to him, and careful of
him, that he seemed afterwards to resolve to make an equal return to
them all: And finding it not easy to reward them all as they deserved,
he forgot them all alike. Most Princes seem to have this pretty deep
in them; and to think that they ought never to remember past services,
but that their acceptance of them is a full reward. He, of all in our
age, exerted this piece of prerogative in the amplest manner: For he
never seemed to charge his memory, or to trouble his thoughts, with
the sense of any of the services that had been done him. While he
was abroad at _Paris_, _Colen_, or _Brussells_, he never seemed to
lay any thing to heart. He pursued all his diversions, and irregular
pleasures, in a free carrier; and seemed to be as serene under the
loss of a Crown, as the greatest Philosopher could have been. Nor did
he willingly hearken to any of those projects, with which he often
complained that his Chancellor persecuted him. That in which he seemed
most concerned was, to find money for supporting his expence. And it
was often said, that, if _Cromwell_ would have compounded the matter,
and have given him a good round pension, that he might have been
induced to resign his title to him. During his exile he delivered
himself so entirely to his pleasures, that he became incapable of
application. He spent little of his time in reading or study, and
yet less in thinking. And, in the state his affairs were then in, he
accustomed himself to say to every person, and upon all occasions,
that which he thought would please most: So that words or promises
went very easily from him. And he had so ill an opinion of mankind,
that he thought the great art of living and governing was, to manage
all things and all persons with a depth of craft and dissimulation.
And in that few men in the world could put on the appearances of
sincerity better than he could: Under which so much artifice was
usually hid, that in conclusion he could deceive none, for all were
become mistrustful of him. He had great vices, but scarce any vertues
to correct them: He had in him some vices that were less hurtful,
which corrected his more hurtful ones. He was during the active part
of life given up to sloth and lewdness to such a degree, that he hated
business, and could not bear the engaging in any thing that gave him
much trouble, or put him under any constraint. And, tho' he desired to
become absolute, and to overturn both our religion and our laws, yet
he would neither run the risque, nor give himself the trouble, which
so great a design required. He had an appearance of gentleness in his
outward deportment: But he seemed to have no bowels nor tenderness in
his nature: And in the end of his life he became cruel. He was apt to
forgive all crimes, even blood it self: Yet he never forgave any thing
that was done against himself, after his first and general act of
indemnity, which was to be reckoned as done rather upon maxims of
state than inclinations of mercy. He delivered himself up to a most
enormous course of vice, without any sort of restraint, even from
the consideration of the nearest relations: The most studied
extravagancies that way seemed, to the very last, to be much delighted
in, and pursued by him. He had the art of making all people grow fond
of him at first, by a softness in his whole way of conversation, as he
was certainly the best bred man of the age. But when it appeared how
little could be built on his promise, they were cured of the fondness
that he was apt to raise in them. When he saw young men of quality,
who had something more than ordinary in them, he drew them about him,
and set himself to corrupt them both in religion and morality; in
which he proved so unhappily successful, that he left _England_ much
changed at his death from what he had found it at his Restoration. He
loved to talk over all the stories of his life to every new man that
came about him. His stay in _Scotland_, and the share he had in the
war of _Paris_, in carrying messages from the one side to the other,
were his common topicks. He went over these in a very graceful manner;
but so often, and so copiously, that all those who had been long
accustomed to them grew weary of them: And when he entred on those
stories they usually withdrew: So that he often began them in a full
audience, and before he had done there were not above four or five
left about him: Which drew a severe jest from _Wilmot_, Earl of
_Rochester_. He said, he wondred to see a man have so good a memory
as to repeat the same story without losing the least circumstance, and
yet not remember that he had told it to the same persons the very day
before. This made him fond of strangers; for they hearkned to all
his often repeated stories, and went away as in a rapture at such an
uncommon condescension in a King.

His person and temper, his vices as well as his fortunes, resemble the
character that we have given us of _Tiberius_ so much, that it were
easy to draw the parallel between them. _Tiberius_'s banishment, and
his coming afterwards to reign, makes the comparison in that respect
come pretty near. His hating of business, and his love of pleasures;
his raising of favourites, and trusting them entirely; and his pulling
them down, and hating them excessively; his art of covering deep
designs, particularly of revenge, with an appearance of softness,
brings them so near a likeness, that I did not wonder much to observe
the resemblance of their face and person. At _Rome_ I saw one of the
last statues made for _Tiberius_, after he had lost his teeth. But,
bating the alteration which that made, it was so like King _Charles_,
that Prince _Borghese_, and _Signior Dominica_ to whom it belonged,
did agree with me in thinking that it looked like a statue made for
him.


65.

THE EARL OF CLARENDON.

_Edward Hyde, knighted 1643, created Baron Hyde 1660, Earl of
Clarendon 1661. Lord Chancellor 1658-1667._

_Born 1609. Died 1674._

By BURNET.


The Earl of _Clarendon_ was bred to the Law, and was like to grow
eminent in his profession when the wars began. He distinguished
himself so in the House of Commons, that he became considerable, and
was much trusted all the while the King was at _Oxford_. He stayed
beyond sea following the King's fortune till the Restoration; and was
now an absolute favourite, and the chief or the only Minister, but
with too magisterial a way. He was always pressing the King to mind
his affairs, but in vain. He was a good Chancellour, only a little too
rough, but very impartial in the administration of justice. He never
seemed to understand foreign affairs well: And yet he meddled too much
in them. He had too much levity in his wit, and did not always observe
the decorum of his post. He was high, and was apt to reject those
who addressed themselves to him with too much contempt. He had such a
regard to the King, that when places were disposed of, even otherwise
than as he advised, yet he would justify what the King did, and
disparage the pretensions of others, not without much scorn; which
created him many enemies. He was indefatigable in business, tho' the
gout did often disable him from waiting on the King: Yet, during his
credit, the King came constantly to him when he was laid up by it.


66.

THE EARL OF LAUDERDALE.

_John Maitland, second Earl, created Duke 1672, Secretary of State for
Scotland 1660-1680._

_Born 1616. Died 1682._

By CLARENDON.


The Earle of Latherdale, who had bene very eminent in contrivinge
and carryinge on the kings service, when his Majesty was crowned in
Scotlande, and therby had wrought himselfe into a very particular
esteme with the kinge, had marched with him into Englande, and behaved
himselfe well at Worcester, wher he was taken prissoner, had besydes
that meritt, the sufferinge an imprysonment from that very tyme,
with some circumstances of extreme rigour, beinge a man against whome
Crumwell had alwayes professed a more then ordinary animosity, and
though the sceane of his imprysonment had bene altred, accordinge
to the alterations of the goverments which succeeded, yett he never
founde himselfe in compleate liberty, till the kinge was proclaymed by
the Parliament, and then he thought it not necessary to repayre into
Scotlande for authority or recommendation, but sendinge his advise
thither to his frends, he made hast to transporte himselfe with the
Parliament Commissyoners to the Hague, where he was very well receaved
by the kinge, and left nothinge undone on his parte, that might
cultivate these old inclinations, beinge a man of as much addresse,
and insinuation, in which that nation excells, as was then amongst
them. He applyed himselfe to those who were most trusted by the kinge
with a marvellous importunity, and especially to the Chancellour, with
whome as often as they had ever bene togither, he had a perpetuall
warr. He now magnifyed his constancy with lowde elogiums as well to
his face, as behinde his backe, remembred many sharpe exspressions
formerly used by the Chancellour which he confessed had then made
him mad, though upon recollection afterwards he had founde to be very
reasonable. He was very polite in all his discources, called himselfe
and his nation a thousand Traytors, and Rebells, and in his discourses
frequently sayd, when I was a Traytour, or when I was in rebellion,
and seemed not æqually delighted with any argument, as when he
skornefully spake of the Covenante, upon which he brake a hundred
jests: in summ all his discourses were such, as pleased all the
company, who commonly believed all he sayd, and concurred with him. He
[renew]ed his old acquaintance and familiarity with Middleton, by all
the protestations of frendshipp, assured him of the unanimous desyre
of Scotlande, to be [un]der his commaunde, and declared to the kinge,
that he could not send any man into Scotlande who would be able to
do him so much service in the place of Commissyoner as Middleton, and
that it was in his Majestys power to unite that whole kingdome to his
service as one m[an:] all which pleased the kinge well, so that by the
tyme that the Commissioners appeared at London, upon some old promise
in Scotlande, or new inclination upon his longe sufferings, which he
magnifyed enough, the kinge gave him the Signett, and declared him to
be Secretary of State of that kingdome, and at the same tyme declared
that Middleton should be his Commissyoner, the Earle of Glengarne
his Chancellour, the Earle of Rothesse, who was likewise one of the
Commissyoners, and his person very agreable to the kinge, President of
the Councell, and conferred all other inferiour offices, upon men most
notable for ther affection to the old goverment of Church and State.


67.

By BURNET.


The Earl of _Lauderdale_, afterwards made Duke, had been for many
years a zealous Covenanter: But in the year forty seven he turned to
the King's interests; and had continued a prisoner all the while after
_Worcester_ fight, where he was taken. He was kept for some years in
the tower of _London_, in _Portland_ castle, and in other prisons,
till he was set at liberty by those who called home the King. So he
went over to _Holland_. And since he continued so long, and contrary
to all mens opinions in so high a degree of favour and confidence,
it may be expected that I should be a little copious in setting out
his character; for I knew him very particularly. He made a very ill
appearance: He was very big: His hair red, hanging odly about him:
His tongue was too big for his mouth, which made him bedew all that
he talked to: And his whole manner was rough and boisterous, and very
unfit for a Court. He was very learned, not only in _Latin_, in which
he was a master, but in _Greek_ and _Hebrew_. He had read a great deal
of divinity, and almost all the historians ancient and modern: So that
he had great materials. He had with these an extraordinary memory,
and a copious but unpolished expression. He was a man, as the Duke of
_Buckingham_ called him to me, of a blundering understanding. He was
haughty beyond expression, abject to those he saw he must stoop to,
but imperious to all others. He had a violence of passion that carried
him often to fits like madness, in which he had no temper. If he took
a thing wrong, it was a vain thing to study to convince him: That
would rather provoke him to swear, he would never be of another mind:
He was to be let alone: And perhaps he would have forgot what he had
said, and come about of his own accord. He was the coldest friend and
the violentest enemy I ever knew: I felt it too much not to know it.
He at first seemed to despise wealth: But he delivered himself up
afterwards to luxury and sensuality: And by that means he ran into a
vast expence, and stuck at nothing that was necessary to support it.
In his long imprisonment he had great impressions of religion on his
mind: But he wore these out so entirely, that scarce any trace of them
was left. His great experience in affairs, his ready compliance
with every thing that he thought would please the King, and his bold
offering at the most desperate counsels, gained him such an interest
in the King, that no attempt against him nor complaint of him could
ever shake it, till a decay of strength and understanding forced him
to let go his hold. He was in his principles much against Popery
and arbitrary government: And yet by a fatal train of passions and
interests he made way for the former, and had almost established
the latter. And, whereas some by a smooth deportment made the first
beginnings of tyranny less discernible and unacceptable, he by the
fury of his behaviour heightned the severity of his ministry, which
was liker the cruelty of an inquisition than the legality of justice.
With all this he was a Presbyterian, and retained his aversion to King
_Charles_ I. and his party to his death.


68.

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY.

_Anthony Ashley Cooper, created Earl of Shaftesbury 1662._

_Born 1621. Died 1683._

By BURNET.


The man that was in the greatest credit with the Earl of _Southampton_
was Sir _Anthony Ashly Cooper_, who had married his niece, and
became afterwards so considerable that he was raised to be Earl of
_Shaftsbury_. And since he came to have so great a name, and that I
knew him for many years in a very particular manner, I will dwell a
little longer on his character; for it was of a very extraordinary
composition. He began to make a considerable figure very early. Before
he was twenty he came into the House of Commons, and was on the King's
side; and undertook to get _Wiltshire_ and _Dorsetshire_ to declare
for him: But he was not able to effect it. Yet Prince _Maurice_
breaking articles to a town, that he had got to receive him,
furnished him with an excuse to forsake that side, and to turn to
the Parliament. He had a wonderful faculty in speaking to a popular
assembly, and could mix both the facetious and the serious way of
arguing very agreeably. He had a particular talent to make others
trust to his judgment, and depend on it: And he brought over so many
to a submission to his opinion, that I never knew any man equal to
him in the art of governing parties, and of making himself the head
of them. He was as to religion a Deist at best: He had the dotage of
Astrology in him to a high degree: He told me, that a _Dutch_ doctor
had from the stars foretold him the whole series of his life. But that
which was before him, when he told me this, proved false, if he told
me true: For he said, he was yet to be a greater man than he had
been. He fancied, that after death our souls lived in stars. He had
a general knowledge of the slighter parts of learning, but understood
little to the bottom: So he triumphed in a rambling way of talking,
but argued slightly when he was held close to any point. He had a
wonderful faculty at opposing, and running things down; but had not
the like force in building up. He had such an extravagant vanity in
setting himself out, that it was very disagreeable. He pretended that
_Cromwell_ offered to make him King. He was indeed of great use to
him in withstanding the enthusiasts of that time. He was one of those
who press'd him most to accept of the Kingship, because, as he said
afterwards, he was sure it would ruin him. His strength lay in the
knowledge of _England_, and of all the considerable men in it. He
understood well the size of their understandings, and their tempers:
And he knew how to apply himself to them so dextrously, that, tho'
by his changing sides so often it was very visible how little he was
to be depended on, yet he was to the last much trusted by all the
discontented party. He was not ashamed to reckon up the many turns
he had made: And he valued himself on the doing it at the properest
season, and in the best manner. This he did with so much vanity, and
so little discretion, that he lost many by it. And his reputation was
at last run so low, that he could not have held much longer, had he
not died in good time, either for his family or for his party: The
former would have been ruined, if he had not saved it by betraying the
latter.


69.

By DRYDEN.


  Some by their Friends, more by themselves thought wise,
  Oppos'd the Pow'r, to which they could not rise.
  Some had in Courts been Great, and thrown from thence,
  Like Fiends, were harden'd in Impenitence.
  Some, by their Monarch's fatal mercy grown,
  From Pardon'd Rebels, Kinsmen to the Throne,
  Were raised in Pow'r and publick Office high:
  Strong Bands, if Bands ungrateful men coud tie.
  Of these the false _Achitophel_ was first:
  A Name to all succeeding Ages curst.
  For close Designs, and crooked Counsels fit;
  Sagacious, Bold, and Turbulent of wit:
  Restless, unfixt in Principles and Place;
  In Pow'r unpleas'd, impatient of Disgrace.
  A fiery Soul, which working out its way,
  Fretted the Pigmy-Body to decay:
  And o'r inform'd the Tenement of Clay,
  A daring Pilot in extremity;
  Pleas'd with the Danger, when the Waves went high
  He sought the Storms; but for a Calm unfit,
  Would Steer too nigh the Sands, to boast his Wit.
  Great Wits are sure to Madness near alli'd;
  And thin Partitions do their Bounds divide:
  Else, why should he, with Wealth and Honour blest,
  Refuse his Age the needful hours of Rest?
  Punish a Body which he coud not please;
  Bankrupt of Life, yet Prodigal of Ease?
  And all to leave, what with his Toil he won,
  To that unfeather'd, two-legg'd thing, a Son:
  Got, while his Soul did huddled Notions trie;
  And born a shapeless Lump, like Anarchy.
  In Friendship false, implacable in Hate:
  Resolv'd to Ruine or to Rule the State.
  To Compass this, the Triple Bond he broke;
  The Pillars of the Publick Safety shook:
  And fitted _Israel_ for a Foreign Yoke.
  Then, seiz'd with Fear, yet still affecting Fame,
  Usurp'd a Patriot's All-attoning Name.
  So easie still it proves in Factious Times,
  With publick Zeal to cancel private Crimes:
  How safe is Treason, and how sacred ill,
  here none can sin against the Peoples Will:
  Where Crouds can wink; and no offence be known,
  Since in anothers guilt they find their own.
  Yet, Fame deserv'd, no Enemy can grudge;
  The Statesman we abhor, but praise the Judge.
  In _Israels_ Courts ne'r sat an _Abbetbdin_
  With more discerning Eyes, or Hands more clean:
  Unbrib'd, unsought, the Wretched to redress;
  Swift of Dispatch, and easie of Access.
  Oh, had he been content to serve the Crown,
  With Vertues onely proper to the Gown;
  Or, had the rankness of the Soil been freed
  From Cockle, that opprest the Noble Seed:
  _David_, for him his tuneful Harp had strung,
  And Heav'n had wanted one Immortal Song.
  But wild Ambition loves to slide, not stand;
  And Fortunes Ice prefers to Vertues Land:
  _Achitophel_, grown weary to possess
  A lawful Fame, and lazie Happiness,
  Disdain'd the Golden Fruit to gather free,
  And lent the Croud his Arm to shake the Tree.
  Now, manifest of Crimes, contriv'd long since,
  He stood at bold Defiance with his Prince:
  Held up the Buckler of the Peoples Cause,
  Against the Crown; and sculk'd behind the Laws,
  The wish'd occasion of the Plot he takes;
  Some Circumstances finds, but more he makes.
  By buzzing Emissaries, fills the ears
  Of listning Crouds, with Jealousies and Fears
  Of Arbitrary Counsels brought to light,
  And proves the King himself a _Jebusite_.
  Weak Arguments! which yet he knew full well,
  Were strong with People easie to Rebel.
  For, govern'd by the _Moon_, the giddy _Jews_
  Tread the same Track when she the Prime renews:
  And once in twenty Years, their Scribes Record,
  By natural Instinct they change their Lord.
  _Achitophel_ still wants a Chief, and none
  Was found so fit as Warlike _Absalon_:
  Not, that he wish'd his Greatness to create,
  (For Polititians neither love nor hate:)
  But, for he knew, his Title not allow'd,
  Would keep him still depending on the Croud:
  That Kingly pow'r, thus ebbing out, might be
  Drawn to the Dregs of a Democracie.


70.

THE DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM.

_George Villiers, second Duke 1628._

_Born 1628. Died 1687._

By BURNET.


The first of these was a man of noble presence. He had a great
liveliness of wit, and a peculiar faculty of turning all things into
ridicule with bold figures and natural descriptions. He had no sort
of literature: Only he was drawn into chymistry: And for some years
he thought he was very near the finding the philosopher's stone; which
had the effect that attends on all such men as he was, when they are
drawn in, to lay out for it. He had no principles of religion, vertue,
or friendship. Pleasure, frolick, or extravagant diversion was all
that he laid to heart. He was true to nothing, for he was not true to
himself. He had no steadiness nor conduct: He could keep no secret,
nor execute any design without spoiling it. He could never fix his
thoughts, nor govern his estate, tho' then the greatest in _England_.
He was bred about the King: And for many years he had a great
ascendent over him: But he spake of him to all persons with that
contempt, that at last he drew a lasting disgrace upon himself. And he
at length ruined both body and mind, fortune and reputation equally.
The madness of vice appeared in his person in very eminent instances;
since at last he became contemptible and poor, sickly, and sunk in his
parts, as well as in all other respects, so that his conversation was
as much avoided as ever it had been courted. He found the King, when
he came from his travels in the year 45, newly come to _Paris_, sent
over by his father when his affairs declined: And finding the King
enough inclined to receive ill impressions, he, who was then got into
all the impieties and vices of the age, set himself to corrupt the
King, in which he was too successful, being seconded in that wicked
design by the Lord _Percy_. And to compleat the matter, _Hobbs_ was
brought to him, under the pretence of instructing him in mathematicks:
And he laid before him his schemes, both with relation to religion and
politicks, which made deep and lasting impressions on the King's mind.
So that the main blame of the King's ill principles, and bad morals,
was owing to the Duke of _Buckingham_.


71.

By DRYDEN.


  Some of their Chiefs were Princes of the Land:
  In the first Rank of these did _Zimri_ stand:
  A man so various, that he seem'd to be
  Not one, but all Mankind's Epitome.
  Stiff in Opinions, always in the wrong;
  Was Every thing by starts, and Nothing long:
  But, in the course of one revolving Moon,
  Was Chymist, Fidler, States-Man, and Buffoon:
  Then all for Women, Painting, Rhiming, Drinking;
  Besides ten thousand Freaks that dy'd in thinking.
  Blest Madman, who coud every hour employ,
  With something New to wish, or to enjoy!
  Railing and praising were his usual Theams;
  And both (to shew his Judgment) in Extreams:
  So over Violent, or over Civil,
  That every Man, with him, was God or Devil.
  In squandring Wealth was his peculiar Art:
  Nothing went unrewarded, but Desert.
  Begger'd by Fools, whom still he found too late:
  He had his Jest, and they had his Estate.
  He laugh'd himself from Court; then sought Relief
  By forming Parties, but could ne'r be Chief:
  For, spight of him, the weight of Business fell
  On _Absalom_ and wise _Achitophel_:
  Thus, wicked but in Will, of Means bereft,
  He left not Faction, but of that was left.


72.

THE MARQUIS OF HALIFAX.

_George Savile, created Baron Savile and Viscount Halifax 1668, Earl
of Halifax 1679, Marquis of Halifax 1682._

_Born 1633. Died 1695._

By BURNET.


I name Sir _George Saville_ last, because he deserves a more copious
character. He rose afterwards to be Viscount, Earl, and Marquis of
_Halifax_. He was a man of a great and ready wit; full of life,
and very pleasant; much turned to satyr. He let his wit run much
on matters of religion: So that he passed for a bold and determined
Atheist; tho' he often protested to me, he was not one; and said, he
believed there was not one in the world: He confessed, he could not
swallow down every thing that divines imposed on the world: He was
a Christian in submission: He believed as much as he could, and he
hoped that God would not lay it to his charge, if he could not disgest
iron, as an ostrich did, nor take into his belief things that must
burst him: If he had any scruples, they 20 were not sought for, nor
cherished by him; for he never read an atheistical book. In a fit of
sickness, I knew him very much touched with a sense of religion. I
was then often with him. He seemed full of good purposes: But they
went off with his sickness. He was always talking of morality and
friendship. He was punctual in all payments, and just in all his
private dealings. But, with relation to the publick, he went backwards
and forwards, and changed sides so often, that in conclusion no side
trusted him. He seemed full of Common-wealth notions: Yet he went
into the worst part of King _Charles's_ reign. The liveliness of his
imagination was always too hard for his judgment. A severe jest was
preferred by him to all arguments whatsoever. And he was endless in
consultations: For when after much discourse a point was settled, if
he could find a new jest, to make even that which was suggested by
himself seem ridiculous, he could not hold, but would study to raise
the credit of his wit, tho' it made others call his judgment in
question. When he talked to me as a philosopher of his contempt of the
world, I asked him, what he meant by getting so many new titles, which
I call'd the hanging himself about with bells and tinsel. He had no
other excuse for it, but this, that, since the world were such fools
as to value those matters, a man must be a fool for company: He
considered them but as rattles: Yet rattles please children: So these
might be of use to his family. His heart was much set on raising his
family. But, tho' he made a vast estate for them, he buried two of his
sons himself, and almost all his grandchildren. The son that survived
was an honest man, but far inferior to him.


73.

SIR EDMUND SAUNDERS.

_Lord Chief Justice 1682. Died 1683._

By ROGER NORTH.


The Lord Chief Justice _Saunders_ succeeded in the Room of
_Pemberton_. His Character, and his Beginning, were equally strange.
He was at first no better than a poor Beggar Boy, if not a Parish
Foundling, without known Parents, or Relations. He had found a way
to live by Obsequiousness (in _Clement's-Inn_, as I remember) and
courting the Attornies Clerks for Scraps. The extraordinary Observance
and Diligence of the Boy, made the Society willing to do him Good. He
appeared very ambitious to learn to write; and one of the Attornies
got a Board knocked up at a Window on the Top of a Staircase; and that
was his Desk, where he sat and wrote after Copies of Court and other
Hands the Clerks gave him. He made himself so expert a Writer that he
took in Business, and earned some Pence by Hackney-writing. And thus,
by degrees, he pushed his Faculties, and fell to Forms, and, by Books
that were lent him, became an exquisite entering Clerk; and, by the
same course of Improvement of himself, an able Counsel, first in
special Pleading, then, at large. And, after he was called to the Bar,
had Practice, in the _King's Bench_ Court, equal with any there. As to
his Person, he was very corpulent and beastly; a mere Lump of morbid
Flesh. He used to say, _by his Troggs_, (such an humourous Way of
talking he affected) _none could say be wanted Issue of his Body,
for he had nine in his Back_. He was a fetid Mass, that offended his
Neighbours at the Bar in the sharpest Degree. Those, whose ill Fortune
it was to stard near him, were Confessors, and, in Summer-time, almost
Martyrs. This hateful Decay of his Carcase came upon him by continual
Sottishness; for, to say nothing of Brandy, he was seldom without a
Pot of Ale at his Nose, or near him. That Exercise was all he used;
the rest of his Life was sitting at his Desk, or piping at home; and
that _Home_ was a Taylor's House in _Butcher-Row_, called his Lodging,
and the Man's Wife was his Nurse, or worse; but, by virtue of his
Money, of which he made little Account, though he got a great deal,
he soon became Master of the Family; and, being no Changling, he never
removed, but was true to his Friends, and they to him, to the last
Hour of his Life.

So much for his Person and Education. As for his Parts, none had them
more lively than he. Wit and Repartee, in an affected Rusticity, were
natural to him. He was ever ready, and never at a Loss; and none
came so near as he to be a Match for Serjeant _Mainard_. His great
Dexterity was in the Art of special Pleading, and he would lay Snares
that often caught his Superiors who were not aware of his Traps. And
he was so fond of Success for his Clients that, rather than fail, he
would set the Court hard with a Trick; for which he met sometimes with
a Reprimand, which he would wittily ward off, so that no one was much
offended with him. But _Hales_ could not bear his Irregularity of
Life; and for that, and Suspicion of his Tricks, used to bear hard
upon him in the Court. But no ill Usage from the Bench was too hard
for his Hold of Business, being such as scarce any could do but
himself. With all this, he had a Goodness of Nature and Disposition in
so great a Degree that he may be deservedly styled a _Philanthrope_.
He was a very _Silenus_ to the Boys, as, in this Place, I may term the
Students of the Law, to make them merry whenever they had a Mind to
it. He had nothing of rigid or austere in him. If any, near him at
the Bar, grumbled at his Stench, he ever converted the Complaint into
Content and Laughing with the Abundance of his Wit. As to his ordinary
Dealing, he was as honest as the driven Snow was white; and why not,
having no Regard for Money, or Desire to be rich? And, for good Nature
and Condescension, there was not his Fellow. I have seen him, for
Hours and half Hours together, before the Court sat, stand at the Bar,
with an Audience of Students over against him, putting of Cases, and
debating so as suited their Capacities, and encouraged their Industry.
And so in the _Temple_, he seldom moved without a Parcel of Youths
hanging about him, and he merry and jesting with them.

It will be readily conceived that this Man was never cut out to be a
Presbyter, or any Thing that is severe and crabbed. In no Time did he
lean to Faction, but did his Business without Offence to any. He put
off officious Talk of Government or Politicks, with Jests, and so
made his Wit a Catholicon, or Shield, to cover all his weak Places and
Infirmities. When the Court fell into a steddy Course of using the
Law against all Kinds of Offenders, this Man was taken into the King's
Business; and had the Part of drawing, and Perusal of almost all
Indictments and Informations that were then to be prosecuted, with the
Pleadings thereon if any were special; and he had the settling of the
large Pleadings in the _Quo Warranto_ against _London_. His Lordship
had no sort of Conversation with him, but in the Way of Business,
and at the Bar; but once, after he was in the King's Business, he
dined with his Lordship, and no more. And then he shewed another
Qualification he had acquired, and that was to play Jigs upon an
Harpsichord; having taught himself with the Opportunity of an old
Virginal of his Landlady's; but in such a Manner, not for Defect but
Figure, as to see him were a Jest. The King, observing him to be of
a free Disposition, Loyal, Friendly, and without Greediness or Guile,
thought of him to be the Chief Justice of the _King's Bench_ at that
nice Time. And the Ministry could not but approve of it. So great a
Weight was then at stake, as could not be trusted to Men of doubtful
Principles, or such as any Thing might tempt to desert them. While he
sat in the Court of _King's Bench_, he gave the Rule to the general
Satisfaction of the Lawyers. But his Course of Life was so different
from what it had been, his Business incessant, and, withal, crabbed;
and his Diet and Exercise changed, that the Constitution of his Body,
or Head rather, could not sustain it, and he fell into an Apoplexy and
Palsy, which numbed his Parts; and he never recovered the Strength
of them. He out-lived the Judgment on the _Quo Warranto_; but was not
present otherwise than by sending his Opinion, by one of the Judges,
to be for the King, who, at the pronouncing of the Judgment, declared
it to the Court accordingly, which is frequently done in like Cases.


74.

TWO GROUPS OF DIVINES.

BENJAMIN WHITCHCOT or WHICHCOTE (1609-83), Provost of King's College,
Cambridge, 1645. RALPH CUDWORTH (1617-88), Master of Clare College,
Cambridge, 1645, and Christ's College, 1654. JOHN WILKINS (1614-72),
Warden of Wadham College, Oxford, 1648; Master of Trinity College,
Cambridge, 1659; Bishop of Chester, 1668. HENRY MORE (1614-87), Fellow
of Christ's College, Cambridge, 1639. JOHN WORTHINGTON (1618-71),
Master of Jesus College, Cambridge, 1650.

JOHN TILLOTSON (1630-94), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1691. EDWARD
STILLINGFLEET (1635-99), Bishop of Worcester, 1689. SIMON PATRICK
(1626-1707), Bishop of Chichester, 1689; Ely, 1691. WILLIAM LLOYD
(1627-1717), Bishop of St. Asaph, 1680; Lichfield, 1692; Worcester,
1700. THOMAS TENISON (1636-1715), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1694.

By BURNET.


With this great accession of wealth there broke in upon the Church a
great deal of luxury and high living, on the pretence of hospitality;
while others made purchases, and left great estates, most of which we
have seen melt away. And with this overset of wealth and pomp, that
came on men in the decline of their parts and age, they, who were
now growing into old age, became lazy and negligent in all the true
concerns of the Church: They left preaching and writing to others,
while they gave themselves up to ease and sloth. In all which sad
representation some few exceptions are to be made; but so few, that,
if a new set of men had not appeared of another stamp, the Church had
quite lost her esteem over the Nation.

These were generally of _Cambridge_, formed under some divines, the
chief of whom were Drs. _Whitchcot_, _Cudworth_, _Wilkins_, _More_,
and _Worthington_. _Whitchcot_ was a man of a rare temper, very mild
and obliging. He had great credit with some that had been eminent in
the late times; but made all the use he could of it to protect good
men of all persuasions. He was much for liberty of conscience: And
being disgusted with the dry systematical way of those times, he
studied to raise those who conversed with him to a nobler set of
thoughts, and to consider religion as a seed of a deiform nature, (to
use one of his own phrases.) In order to this, he set young students
much on reading the ancient Philosophers, chiefly _Plato_, _Tully_,
and _Plotin_, and on considering the Christian religion as a doctrine
sent from God, both to elevate and sweeten humane nature, in which he
was a great example, as well as a wise and kind instructer. _Cudworth_
carried this on with a great strength of genius, and a vast compass
of learning. He was a man of great conduct and prudence: Upon which
his enemies did very falsly accuse him of craft and dissimulation.
_Wilkins_ was of _Oxford_, but removed to _Cambridge_. His first
rise was in the Elector Palatine's family, when he was in _England_.
Afterwards he married _Cromwell_'s sister; but made no other use of
that alliance, but to do good offices, and to cover the University
from the sourness of _Owen_ and _Goodwin_. At _Cambridge_ he joined
with those who studied to propagate better thoughts, to take men off
from being in parties, or from narrow notions, from superstitious
conceits, and a fierceness about opinions. He was also a great
observer and a promoter of experimental philosophy, which was then
a new thing, and much looked after. He was naturally ambitious, but
was the wisest Clergy-man I ever knew. He was a lover of mankind, and
had a delight in doing good. _More_ was an open hearted, and sincere
Christian philosopher, who studied to establish men in the great
principles of religion against atheism, that was then beginning to
gain ground, chiefly by reason of the hypocrisy of some, and the
fantastical conceits of the more sincere enthusiasts.

_Hobbs_, who had long followed the Court, and passed there for a
mathematical man, tho' he really knew little that way, being disgusted
by the Court, came into _England_ in _Cromwell_'s time, and published
a very wicked book, with a very strange title, _The Leviathan_. His
main principles were, that all men acted under an absolute necessity,
in which he seemed protected by the then received doctrine of absolute
decrees. He seemed to think that the universe was God, and that souls
were material, Thought being only subtil and unperceptible motion. He
thought interest and fear were the chief principles of society: And he
put all morality in the following that which was our own private will
or advantage. He thought religion had no other foundation than the
laws of the land. And he put all the law in the will of the Prince,
or of the people: For he writ his book at first in favour of absolute
monarchy, but turned it afterwards to gratify the republican party.
These were his true principles, tho' he had disguised them, for
deceiving unwary readers. And this set of notions came to spread much.
The novelty and boldness of them set many on reading them. The impiety
of them was acceptable to men of corrupt minds, which were but too
much prepared to receive them by the extravagancies of the late times.
So this set of men at _Cambridge_ studied to assert, and examine
the principles of religion and morality on clear grounds, and in
a philosophical method. In this _More_ led the way to many that
came after him. _Worihington_ was a man of eminent piety and great
humility, and practised a most sublime way of self-denial and
devotion. All these, and those who were formed under them, studied to
examine farther into the nature of things than had been done formerly.
They declared against superstition on the one hand, and enthusiasm on
the other. They loved the constitution of the Church, and the Liturgy,
and could well live under them: But they did not think it unlawful
to live under another form. They wished that things might have been
carried with more moderation. And they continued to keep a good
correspondence with those who had differed from them in opinion,
and allowed a great freedom both in philosophy and in divinity:
From whence they were called men of Latitude. And upon this men of
narrower thoughts and fiercer tempers fastened upon them the name of
Latitudinarians. They read _Episcopius_ much. And the making out the
reasons of things being a main part of their studies, their enemies
called them Socinians. They were all very zealous against popery. And
so, they becoming soon very considerable, the Papists set themselves
against them to decry them as Atheists, Deists, or at best Socinians.
And now that the main principle of religion was struck at by _Hobbs_
and his followers, the Papists acted upon this a very strange part.
They went in so far even into the argument for Atheism, as to publish
many books, in which they affirmed, that there was no certain proofs
of the Christian religion, unless we took it from the authority of the
Church as infallible. This was such a delivering up of the cause
to them, that it raised in all good men a very high indignation at
Popery; that party shewing, that they chose to make men, who would not
turn Papists, become Atheists, rather than believe Christianity upon
any other ground than infallibility.

The most eminent of those, who were formed under those great men I
have mention'd, were _Tillotson_, _Stillingfleet_, and _Patrick_. The
first of these was a man of a clear head, and a sweet temper. He had
the brightest thoughts, and the most correct style of all our divines;
and was esteemed the best preacher of the age. He was a very prudent
man; and had such a management with it, that I never knew any
Clergy-man so universally esteemed and beloved, as he was for above
twenty years. He was eminent for his opposition to Popery. He was no
friend to persecution, and stood up much against Atheism. Nor did
any man contribute more to bring the City to love our worship, than
he did. But there was so little superstition, and so much reason
and gentleness in his way of explaining things, that malice was
long levelled at him, and in conclusion broke out fiercely on him.
_Stillingfleet_ was a man of much more learning, but of a more
reserved, and a haughtier temper. He in his youth writ an _Irenicum_
for healing our divisions, with so much learning and moderation, that
it was esteemed a masterpiece. His notion was, that the Apostles had
settled the Church in a constitution of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons,
but had made no perpetual law about it, having only taken it in,
as they did many other things, from the customs and practice of the
synagogue; from which he inferred, that certainly the constitution
was lawful since authorised by them, but not necessary, since they had
made no settled law about it. This took with many; but was cried out
upon by others as an attempt against the Church. Yet the argument was
managed with so much learning and skill, that none of either side
ever undertook to answer it. After that, he wrote against infidelity,
beyond any that had gone before him. And then he engaged to write
against Popery, which he did with such an exactness and liveliness,
that no books of controversy were so much read and valued, as his
were. He was a great man in many respects. He knew the world well,
and was esteemed a very wise man. The writing of his _Irenicum_ was a
great snare to him: For, to avoid the imputations which that brought
upon him, he not only retracted the book, but he went into the humours
of that high sort of people beyond what became him, perhaps beyond
his own sense of things. He applied himself much to the study of the
law and records, and the original of our constitution, and was a very
extraordinary man. _Patrick_ was a great preacher. He wrote much, and
well, and chiefly on the Scriptures. He was a laborious man in his
function, of great strictness of life, but a little too severe against
those who differed from him. But that was, when he thought their
doctrines struck at the fundamentals of religion. He became afterwards
more moderate. To these I shall add another divine, who, tho' of
_Oxford_, yet as he was formed by Bishop _Wilkins_, so he went into
most of their principles; but went far beyond them in learning.
_Lloyd_ was a great critick in the _Greek_ and _Latin_ authors,
but chiefly in the Scriptures; of the words and phrases of which he
carried the most perfect concordance in his memory, and had it the
readiest about him, of all men that ever I knew. He was an exact
historian, and the most punctual in chronology of all our divines.
He had read the most books, and with the best judgment, and had made
the most copious abstracts out of them, of any in this age: So that
_Wilkins_ used to say, he had the most learning in ready cash of any
he ever knew. He was so exact in every thing he set about, that he
never gave over any part of study, till he had quite mastered it. But
when that was done, he went to another subject, and did not lay out
his learning with the diligence with which he laid it in. He had many
volumes of materials upon all subjects laid together in so distinct a
method, that he could with very little labour write on any of them. He
had more life in his imagination, and a truer judgment, than may seem
consistent with such a laborious course of study. Yet, as much as he
was set on learning, he had never neglected his pastoral care. For
several years he had the greatest cure in _England_, St. _Martins_,
which he took care of with an application and diligence beyond any
about him; to whom he was an example, or rather a reproach, so few
following his example. He was a holy, humble, and patient man, ever
ready to do good when he saw a proper opportunity: Even his love of
study did not divert him from that. He did upon his promotion find
a very worthy successor in his cure, _Tenison_, who carried on and
advanced all those good methods that he had begun in the management
of that great cure. He endowed schools, set up a publick library, and
kept many Curates to assist him in his indefatigable labours among
them. He was a very learned man, and took much pains to state the
notions and practices of heathenish idolatry, and so to fasten that
charge on the Church of _Rome_. And, _Whitehall_ lying within that
parish, he stood as in the front of the battel all King _James's_
reign; and maintained, as well as managed, that dangerous post with
great courage and much judgment, and was held in very high esteem for
his whole deportment, which was ever grave and moderate. These have
been the greatest divines we have had these forty years: And may we
ever have a succession of such men to fill the room of those who have
already gone off the stage, and of those who, being now very old,
cannot hold their posts long. Of these I have writ the more fully,
because I knew them well, and have lived long in great friendship with
them; but most particularly with _Tillotson_ and _Lloyd_. And, as I
am sensible I owe a great deal of the consideration that has been had
for me to my being known to be their friend, so I have really learned
the best part of what I know from them. But I owed them much more
on the account of those excellent principles and notions, of which
they were in a particular manner communicative to me. This set of
men contributed more than can be well imagined to reform the way
of preaching; which among the divines of _England_ before them was
over-run with pedantry, a great mixture of quotations from fathers
and ancient writers, a long opening of a text with the concordance
of every word in it, and a giving all the different expositions with
the grounds of them, and the entring into some parts of controversy,
and all concluding in some, but very short, practical applications,
according to the subject or the occasion. This was both long and
heavy, when all was pye-balled, full of many sayings of different
languages. The common style of sermons was either very flat and low,
or swelled up with rhetorick to a false pitch of a wrong sublime. The
King had little or no literature, but true and good sense; and had got
a right notion of style; for he was in _France_ at a time when they
were much set on reforming their language. It soon appear'd that he
had a true taste. So this help'd to raise the value of these men,
when the King approved of the style their discourses generally ran
in; which was clear, plain, and short. They gave a short paraphrase
of their text, unless where great difficulties required a more copious
enlargement: But even then they cut off unnecessary shews of learning,
and applied themselves to the matter, in which they opened the nature
and reasons of things so fully, and with that simplicity, that their
hearers felt an instruction of another sort than had commonly been
observed before. So they became very much followed: And a set of these
men brought off the City in a great measure from the prejudices they
had formerly to the Church.


75.

JAMES II.

_Born 1633. Created Duke of York. Succeeded Charles II 1685. Fled to
France 1688. Died 1701._

By BURNET.


I will digress a little to give an account of the Duke's character,
whom I knew for some years so particularly, that I can say much
upon my own knowledge. He was very brave in his youth, and so much
magnified by Monsieur _Turenne_, that, till his marriage lessened him
he really clouded the King, and pass'd for the superior genius. He was
naturally candid and sincere, and a firm friend, till affairs and his
religion wore out all his first principles and inclinations. He had
a great desire to understand affairs: And in order to that he kept
a constant journal of all that pass'd, of which he shewed me a
great deal. The Duke of _Buckingham_ gave me once a short but severe
character of the two brothers. It was the more severe, because it
was-true: The King (he said) could see things if he would, and the
Duke would see things if he could. He had no true judgment, and
was soon determined by those whom he trusted: But he was obstinate
against all other advices. He was bred with high notions of the Kingly
authority, and laid it down for a maxim, that all who opposed the King
were rebels in their hearts. He was perpetually in one amour or other,
without being very nice in his choice: Upon which the King said once,
he believed his brother had his mistresses given him by his Priests
for penance. He gave me this account of his changing his religion:
When he escaped out of the hands of the Earl of _Northumberland_, who
had the charge of his education trusted to him by the Parliament, and
had used him with great respect, all due care was taken, as soon as
he got beyond sea, to form him to a strict adherence to the Church
of _England_: Among other things much was said of the authority of
the Church, and of the tradition from the Apostles in support of
Episcopacy: So that, when he came to observe that there was more
reason to submit to the Catholick Church than to one particular
Church, and that other traditions might be taken on her word, as
well as Episcopacy was received among us, he thought the step was not
great, but that it was very reasonable to go over to the Church of
_Rome_: And Doctor _Steward_ having taught him to believe a real but
unconceivable presence of _Christ_ in the Sacrament, he thought this
went more than half way to transubstantiation. He said, that a Nun's
advice to him to pray every day, that, if he was not in the right way,
God would set him right, did make a great impression on him. But he
never told me when or where he was reconciled. He suffered me to say a
great deal to him on all these heads. I shewed the difference between
submission and obedience in matters of order and indifferent things,
and an implicite submission from the belief of infallibility. I
also shewed him the difference between a speculation of a mode of
_Christ's_ presence, when it rested in an opinion, and an adoration
founded on it: Tho' the opinion of such a presence was wrong, there
was no great harm in that alone: But the adoration of an undue object
was idolatry. He suffered me to talk much and often to him on these
heads. But I plainly saw, it made no impression: And all that he
seemed to intend by it was, to make use of me as an instrument to
soften the aversion that people began to be possessed with to him. He
was naturally eager and revengeful: And was against the taking off any
that set up in an opposition to the measures of the Court, and who by
that means grew popular in the House of Commons. He was for rougher
methods. He continued for many years dissembling his religion, and
seemed zealous for the Church of _England_: But it was chiefly on
design to hinder all propositions that tended to unite us among our
selves. He was a frugal Prince, and brought his Court into method and
magnificence: For he had 100000_l_. a year allowed him. He was made
High Admiral: And he came to understand all the concerns of the
sea very particularly. He had a very able Secretary about him, Sir
_William Coventry_; a man of great notions and eminent vertues, the
best Speaker in the House of Commons, and capable of bearing the chief
ministry, as it was once thought he was very near it. The Duke found,
all the great seamen had a deep tincture from their education: They
both hated Popery, and loved liberty: They were men of severe tempers,
and kept good discipline. But in order to the putting the fleet into
more confident hands, the Duke began a method of sending pages of
honour, and other young persons of quality, to be bred to the sea. And
these were put in command, as soon as they were capable of it, if not
sooner. This discouraged many of the old seamen, when they saw in what
a channel advancement was like to go; who upon that left the service,
and went and commanded merchantmen. By this means the vertue and
discipline of the navy is much lost. It is true, we have a breed of
many gallant men, who do distinguish themselves in action. But it is
thought, the Nation has suffered much by the vices and disorders of
those Captains, who have risen by their quality, more than by merit or
service.


76.

By BURNET.


He was a Prince that seemed made for greater things, than will be
found in the course of his Life, more particularly of his Reign: He
was esteemed in the former parts of his Life, a Man of great Courage,
as he was quite thro' it a man of great application to business: He
had no vivacity of thought, invention or expression: But he had a good
judgment, where his Religion or his Education gave him not a biass,
which it did very often: He was bred with strange Notions of the
Obedience due to Princes, and came to take up as strange ones, of the
Submission due to Priests: He was naturally a man of truth, fidelity,
and justice: But his Religion was so infused in him, and he was so
managed in it by his Priests, that the Principles which Nature had
laid in him, had little power over him, when the concerns of his
Church stood in the way: He was a gentle Master, and was very easy to
all who came near him: yet he was not so apt to pardon, as one ought
to be, that is the Vicegerent of that God, who is slow to anger, and
ready to forgive: He had no personal Vices but of one sort: He was
still wandring from one Amour to another, yet he had a real sense of
Sin, and was ashamed of it: But Priests know how to engage Princes
more entirely into their interests, by making them compound for their
Sins, by a great zeal for Holy Church, as they call it. In a word, if
it had not been for his Popery, he would have been, if not a great
yet a good Prince. By what I once knew of him, and by what I saw him
afterwards carried to, I grew more confirmed in the very bad opinion,
which I was always apt to have, of the Intrigues of the Popish Clergy,
and of the Confessors of Kings: He was undone by them, and was their
Martyr, so that they ought to bear the chief load of all the errors
of his inglorious Reign, and of its fatal Catastrophe. He had the
Funeral which he himself had desired, private, and without any sort of
Ceremony.


NOTES


1.

The History of Great Britain, Being the Life and Reign of King James
The First, Relating To what passed from his first Accesse to the
Crown, till his Death. By Arthur Wilson, Esq. London, 1653. (pp.
289-90.)

Arthur Wilson (1595-1652) was a gentleman-in-waiting to Robert
Devereux, third Earl of Essex, during James's reign, and was
afterwards in the service of Robert Rich, second Earl of Essex. The
_History_ was written towards the end of his life, and published the
year after his death. He was the author also of an autobiography,
_Observations of God's Providence in the Tract of my Life_ (first
printed in Francis Peck's _Desiderata Curiosa_, 1735, Lib. XII, pp.
6-34), and of three plays, _The Swisser_ (performed at Blackfriars,
1633, first printed in 1904, ed. Albert Feuillerat, from the MS.
in the British Museum), _The Corporall_ (performed, 1633, but not
extant), and _The Inconstant Lady_ (first printed in 1814, ed. Philip
Bliss, from the MS. in the Bodleian Library). The three plays were
entered in the Registers of the Stationers' Company, September 4,
1646, and September 9, 1653. But nothing he wrote appears to have been
published during his life.

Page 2, l. 24. _Peace begot Plenty_. An adaptation of the wellknown
saying which Puttenham in his _Arte of English Poesie_ (ed. Arber, p.
217) attributes to Jean de Meung. Puttenham gives it thus:

  Peace makes plentie, plentie makes pride,
  Pride breeds quarrell, and quarrell brings warre:
  Warre brings spoile, and spoile pouertie,
  Pouertie pacience, and pacience peace:
  So peace brings warre, and warre brings peace.

It is found also in Italian and Latin. Allusions to it are frequent
in the seventeenth century. Compare the beginning of Swift's _Battle
of the Books_, and see the correspondence in _The Times Literary
Supplement_, February 17-March 30, 1916.


2.

The Court and Character of King James. Written and taken by Sir
A.W. being an eye, and eare witnesse. Qui nescit dissimulare, nescit
regnare. Published by Authority. London, MDCL.

'The Character of King James' forms a section by itself at the
conclusion of the volume, pp. 177-89. The volume was reprinted in
the following year, when there were added to it 'The Court of King
Charles' and 'Observations (instead of a Character) upon this King,
from his Childe-hood'. Both editions are carelessly printed. The
second, which corrects some of the errors of the first but introduces
others, has been used for the present text.

Weldon was clerk of the kitchen to James I and afterwards clerk of
the Green Cloth. He was knighted in 1617, and accompanied James to
Scotland in that year, but was dismissed from his place at court for
his satire on the Scots. He took the side of the parliament in the
Civil War. The dedication to Lady Elizabeth Sidley (first printed in
the second edition) states that the work 'treads too near the heeles
of truth, and these Times, to appear in publick'. According to Anthony
à Wood she had suppressed the manuscript, which was stolen from
her. Weldon had died before it was printed. The answer to it called
_Aulicus Coquinariæ_ describes it as 'Pretended to be penned by Sir
A.W. and published since his death, 1650'.

Other works of the same kind, though of inferior value, are Sir Edward
Peyton's _The Divine Catastrophe of The Kingly Family Of the House of
Stuarts_, 1652, and Francis Osborne's _Traditionall Memoyres on The
Raigne of King James_, 1658. They were printed together by Sir Walter
Scott in 1811 under the title _The Secret History of the Court of
James the First_, a collection which contains the historical material
employed in _The Fortunes of Nigel_.

Though carelessly written, and as carelessly printed, Weldon's
character of James is in parts remarkably vivid. It was reprinted by
itself in Morgan's _Pboenix Britannicus_, 1732, pp. 54-6; and it
was incorporated in the edition of Defoe's _Memoirs of a Cavalier_
published in 1792: see _The Retrospective Review_, 1821, vol. iii, pt.
ii, pp. 378-9.

There is a valuable article on Weldon's book as a whole in _The
Retrospective Review_, 1823, vol. vii, pt. I.

PAGE 4, l. 6. _before he was born_, probably an allusion to the murder
of Rizzio in Mary's presence.

l. 11. The syntax is faulty: delete 'and'?

On James's capacity for strong drinks, compare Roger Coke's _Detection
of the Court and State of England_ (1694), ed. 1719, vol. i, p. 78.

l. 27. _that foul poysoning busines_, the poisoning of Sir Thomas
Overbury, the great scandal of the reign. Robert Ker, or Carr, created
Viscount Rochester 1611 and Earl of Somerset 1613, had cast his eye
on the Countess of Essex, and, after a decree of nullity of marriage
with Essex had been procured, married her in December 1613. Overbury,
who had been Somerset's friend, opposed the projected marriage. On
a trumped up charge of disobedience to the king he was in April 1613
committed to the Tower, where he was slowly poisoned, and died in
September. Somerset and the Countess were both found guilty in 1616,
but ultimately pardoned; four of the accomplices were hanged. Weldon
deals with the scandal at some length in the main part of his work,
pp. 61 ff.

l. 30. _Mountgomery_, Philip Herbert, created Earl of Montgomery 1605,
succeeded his brother, William Herbert, as fourth Earl of Pembroke
in 1630 (see No. 7). To this 'most noble and incomparable paire
of brethren' Heminge and Condell dedicated the First Folio of
Shakespeare's plays, 1623. Montgomery's character is given by
Clarendon, _History_, ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 74-5; and, as fourth
Earl of Pembroke, vol. ii, pp. 539-41.

Page 5, l. 22. _unfortunate in the marriage of his Daughter_. James's
daughter Elizabeth married the Elector Palatine, Frederick V, in 1613.
His election as King of Bohemia led to the Thirty Years' War (1618-48)
in which James long hesitated to become involved and played at best
an ineffectual part. The opinion here expressed is explained by
an earlier passage in Weldon's book, pp. 82-4: 'In this Favourites
(Somerset's) flourishing time, came over the _Palsgrave_ to marry our
Kings daughter, which for the present, gave much content, and with the
generall applause, yet it proved a most infortunate match to him and
his Posterity, and all Christendome, for all his Alliance with so
many great Princes, which put on him aspiring thoughts, and was so
ambitious as not to content himselfe with his hereditary patrimony
of one of the greatest Princes in _Germany_; but must aspire to a
Kingdome, beleeving that his great allyance would carry him through
any enterprise, or bring him off with honour, in both which he failed;
being cast out of his own Country with shame, and he and his, ever
after, living upon the devotion of other Princes; but had his Father
in Law spent halfe the mony in Swords he did in words, for which he
was but scorned, it had kept him in his own inheritance, and saved
much Christian bloud since shed; but whiles he, being wholly addicted
to peace, spent much treasure, in sending stately Embassadours to
treat, his Enemies (which he esteemed friends) sent Armies with a
lesse charge to conquer, so that it may be concluded, that this
then thought the most happy match in Christendome, was the greatest
unhappinesse to Christendome, themselves, and posterity.'

l. 27. _Sir Robert Mansell_ (1573-1656), Vice-Admiral of England under
Charles I. Clarendon, writing of the year 1642, says that 'his courage
and integrity were unquestionable' (ed. Macray, vol. ii, p. 219).
'Argiers' or 'Argier' was the common old form of 'Algiers': cf. _The
Tempest_, I. ii. 261, 265.

Page 6, l. 2. _Cottington_, Francis Cottington (1578-1652), baronet
1623, Baron Cottington, 1631. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from
1629 to 1642.

Page 7, l. 5. The first edition reads 'In sending Embassadours, which
were'. The printer's substitution of 'His' for 'In' and omission of
'which' do not wholly mend the syntax.

l. 10. _peace with honour_. An early instance of the phrase made
famous by Lord Beaconsfield in his speech of July 16, 1878, after the
Congress of Berlin, 'Lord Salisbury and myself have brought you back
peace, but a peace I hope with honour.' Cf. _Notes and Queries_, 1887,
Seventh Series, vol. iii, p. 96.

l. 14. _Nullum tempus, &c._, the law maxim _Nullum tempus occurrit
regi_, lapse of time does not bar the crown. The Parliament which met
in February 1624 passed 'An Act for the generall quiett of the Subject
agaynst all pretences of Concealement' (21° Jac. I, c. 2) which
declared sixty years' possession of Lands, &c., to be a good title
against the Crown.

l. 18. _his Tuesday Sermons_, likewise explained by an earlier passage
in Weldon's book, pp. 8, 9: 'the chiefe of those secrets, was that
of _Gowries_ Conspiracy, though that Nation [the Scots] gave little
credit to the Story, but would speak sleightly and despitefully of
it, and those of the wisest of that Nation; yet there was a weekly
commemoration by the Tuesday Sermon, and an anniversary Feast, as
great as it was possible, for the Kings preservation, ever on the
fifth of August.' James attempted to force the Tuesday sermon on the
University of Oxford; it was to be preached by members of each college
in rotation. See Brodrick's _Memorials of Merton College_, 1885, p.
70.

Page 8, l. 1. _a very wise man_. Compare _The Fortunes of Nigel_,
chap. v: 'the character bestowed upon him by Sully--that he was
the wisest fool in Christendom'. Two volumes of the _Mémoires_ of
Maximilien de Béthune, Duc de Sully (1560-1641), appeared in 1638; the
others after 1650. There is much about James in the second volume, but
this description of him does not appear to be there.

ll. 10-12. _two Treasurers_, see p. 21, ll. 15-22: _three
Secretaries_, Sir Thomas Lake; Sir Robert Naunton; Sir George Calvert,
Baron Baltimore; Sir Edward Conway, Viscount Conway: _two Lord
Keepers_, Sir Francis Bacon; John Williams, Bishop of Lincoln (see
p. 18, l. 5): _two Admiralls_, Charles Howard of Effingham, Earl of
Nottingham; the Duke of Buckingham: _three Lord chief Justices_, Sir
Edward Coke; Henry Montagu, Earl of Manchester; James Ley, Earl of
Marlborough.

Weldon's statement is true of the year 1623; he might have said
'_three_ Treasurers' and '_four_ Secretaries'.


3.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 7-9, 18-20; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol.
i, pp. 9-11, 26-9; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 10-13, 38-43.

This is the first of the portraits in Clarendon's great gallery, and
it is drawn with great care. Clarendon was only a youth of twenty when
Buckingham was assassinated, and he had therefore not the personal
knowledge and contact to which the later portraits owe so much of
their value. But he had throughout all his life been interested in
the remarkable career of this 'very extraordinary person'. Sir Henry
Wotton's 'Observations by Way of Parallel' on the Earl of Essex
and Buckingham had suggested to him his first character study, 'The
Difference and Disparity' between them. (It is printed after the
'Parallel' in _Reliquiæ Wottonianæ_, and described in the third
edition, 1672, as 'written by the Earl of Clarendon in his younger
dayes'.) His two studies offer an interesting comparison. Many of the
ideas are the same, but there is a marked difference in the precision
of drawing and the ease of style. The character here reprinted was
written when Clarendon had mastered his art.

Page 11, l. 5. See p. 4, l. 27.

Page 13, l. 25. The passage here omitted deals with Buckingham's
unsuccessful journey to Spain with Prince Charles, and with his
assassination.

Page 16, l. 28. _touched upon before_, ed. Macray, vol. i, p. 38; here
omitted.


4.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 27, 28; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 36-8; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 56-9.

Page 18, l. 5. _the Bishopp of Lincolne_, John Williams (1582-1650),
afterwards Archbishop of York. He succeeded Bacon as Lord Keeper. He
is sketched in Wilson's _History of Great Britain_, pp. 196-7, and
Fuller's _Church-History of Britain_, 1655, Bk. XI, pp. 225-8. His
life by John Hacket, _Scrinia Reserata_, 1693, is notorious for the
'embellishments' of its style; a shorter life, based on Hacket's, was
an early work of Ambrose Philips.

l. 22. _the Earle of Portlande_, Sir Richard Weston: see No. 5.

l. 24. _Hambleton_, Clarendon's usual spelling of 'Hamilton'.


5.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 28-32; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 31-43; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 59-67.

Another and more favourable character of Weston is the matter of an
undated letter which Sir Henry Wotton sent to him as 'a strange New
years Gift' about 1635. 'In short, it is only an Image of your Self,
drawn by memory from such discourse as I have taken up here and
there of your Lordship, among the most intelligent and unmalignant
men; which to pourtrait before you I thought no servile office, but
ingenuous and real'. See _Reliquiæ Wottonianæ_, ed. 1672, pp. 333-6.

Page 21, l. 7. _the white staffe_. 'The Third _Great Officer_ of the
Crown, is the _Lord High Treasurer of England_, who receives this High
Office by delivery of a _White Staffe_ to him by the _King_, and
holds it _durante bene placito Regis_' (Edward Chamberlayne, _Angliæ
Notitia_, 1674, p. 152).

Page 23, l. 4. _L'd Brooke_, Sir Fulke Greville (1554-1628) the
friend and biographer of Sir Philip Sidney. He was Chancellor of the
Exchequer from 1614 to 1621.

Page 28, l. 18. _eclarcicement_, introduced into English about
this time, and in frequent use till the beginning of the nineteenth
century.

l. 28. _a younge, beautifull Lady_, Frances, daughter of Esmé, third
Duke of Lennox, married to Jerome Weston, afterwards second Earl of
Portland, in 1632.


6.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 33, 34; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i,
p. 44; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 69-71.

This is one of Clarendon's most unfriendly portraits. It was seriously
edited when first printed. The whole passage about the coldness and
selfishness of Arundel's nature on p. 31, ll. 12-30, was omitted, as
likewise the allusion to his ignorance on p. 30, ll. 25-7, 'wheras in
truth he was only able to buy them, never to understande them.' Minor
alterations are the new reading 'thought no part of History _so_
considerable, _as_ what related to his own Family' p. 30, ll. 28,
29, and the omission of 'vulgar' p. 31, l. 11. The purpose of these
changes is obvious. They are extreme examples of the methods of
Clarendon's first editors. In no other character did they take so
great liberties with his text.

Arundel's great collection of ancient marbles is now in the Ashmolean
Museum in the University of Oxford. The inscriptions were presented
to the University in 1667 by Lord Henry Howard, Arundel's grandson,
afterwards sixth Duke of Norfolk, and the statues were reunited
to them in 1755 by the gift of Henrietta Countess of Pomfret. As
Clarendon's _History_ was an official publication of the University,
it is probable that the prospect of receiving the statues induced
the editors to remove or alter the passages that might be thought
offensive.

As a whole this character does not show Clarendon's usual detachment.
Arundel was Earl Marshal, and Clarendon in the Short Parliament of
1640 and again at the beginning of the Long Parliament had attacked
the jurisdiction of the Earl Marshal's Court, which, as he says,
'never presumed to sit afterwards'. The account given in Clarendon's
_Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 37-9, explains much in this character. Clarendon
there says that Arundel 'did him the honour to detest and hate him
perfectly'. There was resentment on both sides. The character was
written in Clarendon's later years, but he still remembered with
feeling the days when as Mr. Edward Hyde he was at cross purposes with
this Earl of ancient lineage.

A different character of Arundel is given in the 'Short View' of his
life written by Sir Edward Walker (1612-77), Garter King of Arms and
Secretary of War to Charles I:

'He was tall of Stature, and of Shape and proportion rather goodly
than neat; his Countenance was Majestical and grave, his Visage long,
his Eyes large black and piercing; he had a hooked Nose, and some
Warts or Moles on his Cheeks; his Countenance was brown, his Hair thin
both on his Head and Beard; he was of a stately Presence and Gate, so
that any Man that saw him, though in never so ordinary Habit, could
not but conclude him to be a great Person, his Garb and Fashion
drawing more Observation than did the rich Apparel of others; so that
it was a common Saying of the late Earl of _Carlisle_, Here comes the
Earl of _Arundel_ in his plain Stuff and trunk Hose, and his Beard
in his Teeth, that looks more like a Noble Man than any of us. He
was more learned in Men and Manners than in Books, yet understood the
_Latin_ Tongue very well, and was Master of the _Italian_; besides he
was a great Favourer of learned Men, such as Sir _Robert Cotton_, Sir
_Henry Spelman_, Mr. _Camden_, Mr. _Selden_, and the like. He was a
great Master of Order and Ceremony, and knew and kept greater Distance
towards his Sovereign than any Person I ever observed, and expected
no less from his inferiours; often complaining that the too great
Affability of the King, and the _French_ Garb of the Court would
bring MAJESTY into Contempt.... He was the greatest Favourer of Arts,
especially Painting, Sculpture, Designs, Carving, Building and the
like, that this Age hath produced; his Collection of Designs being
more than of any Person living, and his Statues equal in Number, Value
and Antiquity to those in the Houses of most Princes; to gain which,
he had Persons many Years employed both in _Italy_, _Greece_, and so
generally in any part of _Europe_ where Rarities were to be had. His
Paintings likewise were numerous and of the most excellent Masters,
having more of that exquisite Painter _Hans Holben_ than are in the
World besides.... He was a Person of great and universal Civility, but
yet with that Restriction as that it forbad any to be bold or sawcy
with him; though with those whom he affected, which were Lovers of
State, Nobility and curious Arts, he was very free and conversible;
but they being but few, the Stream of the times being otherwise, he
had not many Confidents or Dependents; neither did he much affect
to have them, they being unto great Persons both burthensome and
dangerous. He was not popular at all, nor cared for it, as loving
better by a just Hand than Flattery to let the common People to know
their Distance and due Observance. Neither was he of any Faction in
Court or Council, especially not of the _French_ or Puritan.... He was
in Religion no Bigot or Puritan, and professed more to affect moral
Vertues than nice Questions and Controversies.... If he were defective
in any thing, it was that he could not bring his Mind to his Fortune;
which though great, was far too little for the Vastness of his noble
Designs.'

Walker's character was written before Clarendon's. It is dated
'Iselsteyne the 7th of June 1651'. It was first published in 1705 in
his _Historical Discourses upon Several Occasions_, pp. 221-3.

Page 30, l. 15. _his wife_, 'the Lady Alithea Talbot, third Daughter
and Coheir of _Gilbert Talbot_ Earl of _Shrewsbury_, Grandchild of
_George Talbot_ Earl of _Shrewsbury_ and Earl Marshal of _England_'
(Walker, _Historical Discourses_, p. 211).


7.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 34, 35; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 44-6; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 71-3.

This pleasing portrait of Pembroke, one of the great patrons of
literature of James's reign, follows immediately after the unfriendly
portrait of Arundel, the art collector. Clarendon knew the value of
contrast in the arrangement of his gallery.

Pembroke is sometimes supposed to have been the patron of Shakespeare.
It cannot, however, be proved that there were any personal relations,
though the First Folio was dedicated to him and his brother, the Earl
of Montgomery, afterwards fourth Earl of Pembroke. See note, p. 4,
l. 30. He was the patron of Ben Jonson, who dedicated to him his
_Catiline_, his favourite play, and his _Epigrams_, 'the ripest of
my studies'; also of Samuel Daniel, Chapman, and William Browne. See
_Shakespeare's England_, vol. ii, pp. 202-3.

Clarendon has also given a character of the fourth Earl, 'the poor
Earl of Pembroke', _History_, ed. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 539-41.


8.

Timber: or, Discoveries; Made Vpon Men and Matter. By Ben: Iohnson.
London, Printed M.DC.XLI. (pp. 101-2.)

This character is a remarkable testimony to the impression which
Bacon's restrained eloquence made on his contemporaries. Yet it is
little more than an exercise in free translation. Jonson has pieced
together two passages in the _Controversies_ of Marcus Seneca, and
placed the name of 'Dominus Verulanus' in the margin. The two passages
are these:

'Non est unus, quamvis præcipuus sit, imitandus: quia nunquam par
fit imitator auctori. Hæc natura est rei. Semper citra veritatem est
similitudo.' Lib. I, Præfatio (ed. Paris, 1607, p. 58).

'Oratio eius erat valens cultu, ingentibus plena sententiis. Nemo
minus passus est aliquid in actione sua otiosi esse. Nulla pars erat,
quæ non sua virtute staret. Nihil, in quo auditor sine damno aliud
ageret. Omnia intenta aliquo, petentia. Nemo magis in sua potestate
habuit audientium affectus. Verum est quod de illo dicit Gallio
noster. Cum diceret, rerum potiebatur, adeo omnes imperata faciebant.
Cum ille voluerat, irascebantur. Nemo non illo dicente timebat, ne
desineret.' Epit. Declamat. Lib. III (p. 231).

From the continuation of the first passage Jonson took the words
'insolent Greece' ('insolenti Græciæ') in his verses 'To the memory of
Shakespeare'.

Jonson has left a more vivid picture of Bacon as a speaker in a short
sentence of his Conversations with Drummond of Hawthornden: 'My Lord
Chancelor of England wringeth his speeches from the strings of his
band.'


9.

Reign of King James the First, 1653, pp. 158-60.

Page 36, l. 18. _which the King hinted at_, in the King's Speech to
the Lords, 1621: 'But because the World at this time talks so much of
_Bribes_, I have just cause to fear the whole _Body_ of this _House_
hath _bribed_ him [Prince Charles] to be a good _Instrument_ for you
upon all occasions: He doth so good Offices in all his _Reports_
to me, both for the _House_ in _generall_, and every one of you
in _particular_.' The speech is given in full by Wilson before the
passage on Bacon.

Page 37, l. 25. The passage here omitted is 'The humble Submission and
Supplication of the Lord Chancellour'.

Page 38, l. 10. _a good Passeover_, a good passage back to Spain.
Gondomar was Spanish ambassador.


10.

The Church-History of Britain; From the Birth of Jesus Christ, Untill
the Year M.DC.XLVIII. Endeavoured By Thomas Fuller. London, 1655. (Bk.
x, p. 89.)


11.

Resuscitatio, Or, Bringing into Publick Light Severall Pieces, of
the Works, Civil, Historical, Philosophical, & Theological, Hitherto
Sleeping; Of the Right Honourable Francis Bacon Baron of Verulam,
Viscount Saint Alban. According to the best Corrected Coppies.
Together, With his Lordships Life. By William Rawley, Doctor in
Divinity, His Lordships First, and Last, Chapleine. Afterwards,
Chapleine, to His late Maiesty. London, 1657.

'The Life of the Honourable Author' serves as introduction to this
volume of Bacon's literary remains. It runs to fourteen pages,
unnumbered. The passage quoted from this life (_c1v-c2v_) is of the
nature of a character.

Rawley's work is disfigured by pedantically heavy punctuation. He
carried to absurd excess the methods which his Master adopted in the
1625 edition of his _Essays_. It has not been thought necessary to
retain all his commas.

Page 41, l. 4. _Et quod tentabam_, &c. Ovid, _Tristia_, IV. x. 26.


12.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 48; _Life_, ed. 1759, p. 16.

Page 42, l. 23. _M'r Cowly_, an indication of Cowley's fame among his
contemporaries. This was written in 1668, after the publication of
_Paradise Lost_, but Clarendon ignores Milton.

l. 25. _to own much of his_, 'to ascribe much of this' _Life_ 1759.

Page 43, l. 2. _M'r Hyde_, Clarendon himself.


13.

A New Volume of Familiar Letters, Partly Philosophicall, Politicall,
Historicall. The second Edition, with Additions. By James Howell, Esq.
London, 1650. (Letter XIII, pp. 25-6.)

This is the second volume of _Epistolæ Ho-Elianæ_, first published
1645 (vol. 1) and 1647 (vol. 2). The text is here printed from the
copy of the second edition which Howell presented to Selden with an
autograph dedication: 'Ex dono Authoris ... Opusculum hoc honoris ergô
mittitur, Archiuis suis reponendum. 3° non: Maij 1652.' The volume now
reposes in the Selden collection in the Bodleian library. The second
edition of this letter differs from the first in the insertion of the
bracketed words, ll. 22, 23, and the date.

The authenticity of the letters as a whole is discussed in Joseph
Jacob's edition, 1890, pp. lxxi ff. This was probably not a real
letter written to his correspondent at the given date. But whenever,
and in whatever circumstances, Howell wrote it, the value of the
picture it gives us of Ben Jonson is not impaired.

PAGE 43, l. 9. _Sir Tho. Hawk_. Sir Thomas Hawkins, translator of
Horace's _Odes and Epodes_, 1625; hence 'your' Horace, p. 44, l. 4.

l. 17. _T. Ca._ Thomas Carew, the poet, one of the 'Tribe of Ben'.

PAGE 44, l. 6. _Iamque opus_, Ovid, _Metam._ xv. 871; cf. p. 202,
l. 13. l. 8. _Exegi monumentum_, Horace, _Od._ iii. 30. i. l. 10. _O
fortunatam_, preserved in Quintilian, _Inst. Orat._ ix. 4. 41 and xi.
I. 24, and in Juvenal, _Sat._ x. 122.


14.

This remarkable portrait of a country gentleman of the old school
is from the 'Fragment of Autobiography', written by the first Earl
of Shaftesbury (see Nos. 68, 69) towards the end of his life. The
manuscript is among the Shaftesbury papers in the Public Record
Office, but at present (1918) has been temporarily withdrawn for
greater safety, and is not available for reference. The text is
therefore taken from the modernized version in W.D. Christie's
_Memoirs of Shaftesbury_, 1859, pp. 22-5, and _Life of Shaftesbury_,
1871, vol. i, appendix i, pp. xv-xvii.

The character was published in Leonard Howard's _Collection of
Letters, from the Original Manuscripts_, 1753, pp. 152-5, and was
reprinted in _The Gentleman's Magazine_ for April 1754, pp. 160-1, and
again in _The Connoisseur_, No. 81, August 14, 1755. _The Gentleman's
Magazine_ (1754, p. 215) is responsible for the error that it is to be
found in Peck's _Desiderata Curiosa_.

Hastings was Shaftesbury's neighbour in Dorsetshire. A full-length
portrait of him in his old age, clad in green cloth and holding
a pike-staff in his right hand, is at St. Giles, the seat of the
Shaftesbury family. It is reproduced in Hutchins's _History of
Dorset_, ed. 1868, vol. iii, p. 152.

PAGE 44, ll. 24-26. He was the second son of George fourth Earl of
Huntingdon. Shaftesbury is describing his early associates after his
marriage in 1639: 'The eastern part of Dorsetshire had a bowling-green
at Hanley, where the gentlemen went constantly once a week, though
neither the green nor accommodation was inviting, yet it was well
placed for to continue the correspondence of the gentry of those
parts. Thither resorted Mr. Hastings of Woodland,' &c.

Page 47, l. 12. '_my part lies therein-a_.' As was pointed out by E.F.
Rimbault in _Notes and Queries_, 1859, Second Series, vol. vii, p.
323, this is part of an old catch printed with the music in _Pammelia.
Musicks Miscellanie. Or, Mixed Varietie of Pleasant Roundelayes, and
delightfull Catches_, 1609:

  There lies a pudding in the fire,
    and my parte lies therein a:
  whome should I call in,
    O thy good fellowes and mine a.

_Pammelia_, 'the earliest collection of rounds, catches, and canons
printed in England', was brought out by Thomas Ravenscroft. Another
edition appeared in 1618.


15.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 383-4; _History_, Bk. XI, ed. 1704, vol. iii,
pp. 197-9; ed. Macray, vol. iv, pp. 488-92.

The sense of Fate overhangs the portrait in which Clarendon paints for
posterity the private virtues of his unhappy master. The easy dignity
of the style adapts itself to the grave subject. This is one of
Clarendon's greatest passages. It was written twenty years after
Charles's death, but Time had not dulled his feelings. 'But ther shall
be only incerted the shorte character of his person, as it was found
in the papers of that person whose life is heare described, who was so
nerely trusted by him, and who had the greatest love for his person,
and the greatest reverence for his memory, that any faythfull servant
could exspresse.' So he wrote at first in the account of his own life.
On transferring the passage to the _History_ he substituted the more
impersonal sentence (p. 48, l. 27--p. 49, l. 5) which the general
character of the _History_ demanded.

Page 48, l. 15. _our blessed Savyour_. Compare 'The Martyrdom of King
Charls I. or His Conformity with Christ in his Sufferings. In a Sermon
preached at Bredah, Before his Sacred Majesty King Charls The Second,
And the Princess of Orange. By the Bishop of Downe. Printed at the
Hage 1649, and reprinted at London ... 1660'. Clarendon probably heard
this sermon.

l. 21. _have bene so much_, substituted in MS. for 'fitt to be more'.

_treatises_. E.g. _Elenchus Motuum Nuperorum in Anglia_ (part 1),
1649, by George Bate or Bates, principal physician to Charles I and
II; _England's black Tribunall. Set forth in the Triall of K. Charles
I_, 1660; and the sermon mentioned above.

Page 51, l. 20. _educated by that people_. His tutor was Sir Peter
Young (1544-1628), the tutor of James. Patrick Young (1584-1652), Sir
Peter's son, was Royal Librarian.

l. 26. _Hambleton_. Cf. p. 18, l. 24.


16.

Mémoires Of the reigne of King Charles I. With a Continuation to the
Happy Restauration of King Charles II. By Sir Philip Warwick, Knight.
Published from the Original Manuscript. With An Alphabetical Table.
London, 1701. (pp. 64-75.)

Warwick (1609-83) was Secretary to Charles in 1647-8. 'When I think
of dying', he wrote, adapting a saying of Cicero, 'it is one of my
comforts, that when I part from the dunghill of this world, I shall
meet King Charles, and all those faithfull spirits, that had virtue
enough to be true to him, the Church, and the Laws unto the last.'
(_Mémoires_, p. 331.) Passages in the _Mémoires_ show that they were
begun after the summer of 1676 (p. 37), and completed shortly after
May 18, 1677 (p. 403).

Page 55, l. 13. _Sir Henry Vane_, the elder.

l. 14. _dyet_, allowance for expenses of living.

Page 56, l. 26. [Greek: Eikon Basilikae]. _The Pourtraicture of His
Sacred Maiesty in his Solitudes and Sufferings_ was published in
February 1649. Charles's authorship was at once doubted in Milton's
[Greek: EIKONOKLASTAES] and in [Greek: EIKON ALAETHINAE]. _The
Pourtraicture of Truths most sacred Majesty truly suffering, though
not solely_, and supported in [Greek: EIKON AKLASTOS], in [Greek:
EIKON AE PISTAE], and in _The Princely Pellican_, all published
in 1649. The weight of evidence is now strongly in favour of
the authorship of John Gauden (1605-62), bishop of Exeter at
the Restoration. Gauden said in 1661 that he had written it, and
examination of his claims is generally admitted to have confirmed
them. See H.J. Todd's _Letter concerning the Author_, 1825, and
_Gauden the Author, further shewn_, 1829; and C.E. Doble's four
letters in _The Academy_, May 12-June 30, 1883.

Carlyle had no doubt that Charles was not the author. 'My reading
progresses with or without fixed hope. I struggled through the
"Eikon Basilike" yesterday; one of the paltriest pieces of vapid,
shovel-hatted, clear-starched, immaculate falsity and cant I have ever
read. It is to me an amazement how any mortal could ever have taken
that for a genuine book of King Charles's. Nothing but a surpliced
Pharisee, sitting at his ease afar off, could have got up such a set
of meditations. It got Parson Gauden a bishopric.'--Letter of November
26, 1840 (Froude's _Thomas Carlyle_, 1884, vol. i, p. 199).

Page 57, l. 4. Thomas Herbert (1606-82), made a baronet in 1660.
Appointed by Parliament in 1647 to attend the King, he was latterly
his sole attendant, and accompanied him with Juxon to the scaffold.
His _Threnodia Carolina_, reminiscences of Charles's captivity, was
published in 1702 under the title, _Memoirs of the Two last Years of
the Reign of that unparalleled Prince, of ever Blessed Memory, King
Charles I_. It was 'printed for the first time from the original MS.'
(now in private possession), but in modernized spelling, in Allan
Fea's _Memoirs of the Martyr King_, 1905, pp. 74-153.

l. 10. Gilbert Burnet (1643-1715), bishop of Salisbury, 1689, the
historian whose characters are given in the later part of this volume.
His _Mémoires of the Lives and Actions of James and William Dukes of
Hamilton_, 1677, his first historical work, appeared while Warwick was
writing his _Mémoires of Charles_. It attracted great attention, as
its account of recent events was furnished with authentic documents.
'It was the first political biography of the modern type, combining
a narrative of a man's life with a selection from his letters' (C.H.
Firth, introduction to Clarke and Foxcroft's _Life of Burnet_, 1907,
p. xiii).

l. 15. _affliction gives understanding_. Compare Proverbs 29. 15,
and Ecclesiasticus 4. 17 and 34. 9; the exact words are not in the
Authorised Version.

l. 30. Robert Sanderson (1587-1663), Regius Professor of Divinity at
Oxford, 1642, Bishop of Lincoln, 1660. Izaak Walton wrote his _Life_,
1678.

Page 58, l. 20. Sir Dudley Carleton (1573-1632), created Baron
Carleton, 1626, and Viscount Dorchester, 1628; Secretary of State,
1628.

l. 21. Lord Falkland, see pp. 71-97; Secretary of State, 1642.

Page 59, ll. 11-13. Plutarch, Life of Alexander the Great; opening
sentences, roughly paraphrased.

Page 60, l. 20. _Venient Romani_, St. John, xi. 48. See _The
Archbishop of Canterbury's Speech or His Funerall Sermon, Preacht by
himself on the Scaffold on Tower-Hill, on Friday the 10. of Ianuary,
1644. London_, 1644, p. 10: 'I but perhaps a great clamour there is,
that I would have brought in Popery, I shall answer that more fully
by and by, in the meane time, you know what the Pharisees said against
Christ himself, in the eleventh of _Iohn_, _If we let him alone,
all men will beleeve on him_, Et venient Romani, _and the Romanes
will come and take away both our place and the Nation_. Here was a
causelesse cry against Christ that the Romans would come, and see how
just the Iudgement of God was, they crucified Christ for feare least
the Romans should come, and his death was that that brought in the
Romans upon them, God punishing them with that which they most feared:
and I pray God this clamour of _veniunt Romani_, (of which I have
given to my knowledge no just cause) helpe not to bring him in; for
the Pope never had such a Harvest in England since the Reformation, as
he hath now upon the Sects and divisions that are amongst us.'

ll. 22-30. Hugo Grotius (1583-1645) brought out his _De Jure Belli ac
Pacis Libri Tres_ at Paris in 1625. Towards the end of the dedication
to Louis XIII Grotius says: 'Pertæsos discordiarum animos excitat in
hanc spem recens contracta inter te & sapientissimum pacisque illius
sanctæ amantissimum Magnæ Britanniæ Regem amicitia & auspicatissimo
Sororis tuæ matrimonio federata.'


17.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 59; _History_, Bk. III, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 203-4; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 340-2.

Page 62, l. 23. Thomas Savile (1590-1658), created Viscount Savile,
1628, Privy Councillor, 1640, Controller and then Treasurer of the
Household. 'He was', says Clarendon, 'a man of an ambitious and
restless nature, of parts and wit enough, but in his disposition and
inclination so false that he could never be believed or depended upon.
His particular malice to the earl of Strafford, which he had sucked in
with his milk, (there having always been an immortal feud between the
families, and the earl had shrewdly overborne his father), had engaged
him with all persons who were willing, and like to be able, to do him
mischieve' (_History_, Bk. VI, ed. Macray, vol. ii, p. 534).

Page 63, l. 25. _S'r Harry Vane_. See p. 152, ll. 9 ff.

l. 26. _Plutarch recordes_, Life of Sylla, last sentence.


18.

Mémoires of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 109-13.

Page 65, l. 21. Warwick was member for Radnor in the Long Parliament
from 1640 to 1644. The Bill of Attainder passed the Commons on April
21, 1641, by 204 votes to 59 (Clarendon, ed. Macray, vol. i, p. 306;
Rushworth, _Historical Collections_, third part, vol. i, 1692, p.
225). The names of the minority were posted up at Westminster, under
the heading 'These are Straffordians, Betrayers of their Country'
(Rushworth, _id._, pp. 248-9). There are 56 names, and 'Mr. Warwick'
is one of them.


19.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 398; _History_, Bk. VI, ed. 1703, vol. ii,
pp. 115-6; ed. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 477-8.

Page 68, l. 5. _Et velut æquali_. The source of this quotation is not
yet found.

l. 15. _the Standard was sett up_, at Nottingham, on August 22, 1642.

l. 17. Robert Greville (1608-43), second Baron Brooke, cousin of Sir
Fulke Greville, first Baron (p. 23, l. 4). See Clarendon, ed. Macray,
vol. ii, pp. 474-5.

l. 27. _all his Children_. Compare Warwick's account of 'that most
noble and stout Lord, the Earle of Northampton', _Mémoires_, pp.
255-7: 'This may be said of him, that he faithfully served his Master,
living and dead; for he left six eminent sons, who were all heirs
of his courage, loyalty, and virtue; whereof the eldest was not then
twenty.'


20.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 477-8; _History_, Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol.
ii, pp. 269-70; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 177-8.

Carnarvon's character has much in common with Northampton's. Though
separated in the _History_, they are here placed together as companion
portraits of two young Royalist leaders who fell early in the Civil
War.

Page 70, l. 21. Dorchester and Weymouth surrendered to Carnarvon on
August 2 and 5, 1643. They were granted fair conditions, but on the
arrival of the army of Prince Maurice care was not taken 'to observe
those articles which had been made upon the surrender of the towns;
which the earl of Carnarvon (who was full of honour and justice upon
all contracts) took so ill that he quitted the command he had with
those forces, and returned to the King before Gloster' (Clarendon,
vol. iii, p. 158).


21.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 478-81; _History_, Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol.
ii, pp. 270-7; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 178-90.

Clarendon wrote two characters of Falkland, the one in 1647 in the
'History' and the other in 1668 in the 'Life'. Both are long, and both
are distinguished by sustained favour of affection and admiration as
well as by wealth of detail. He was aware that the earlier character
was out of scale in a history, but he would not condense it. He even
thought of working it up into a book by itself, wherein he would
follow the example of Tacitus who wrote the _Agricola_ before the
_Annals_ and _Histories_. He corresponded about it with John Earle
(see No. 50). From two of the letters the following extracts are
taken:

'I would desire you (at your leisure) to send me that discourse
of your own which you read to me at Dartmouth in the end of your
contemplations upon the Proverbs, in memory of my Lord Falkland; of
whom in its place I intend to speak largely, conceiving it to be so
far from an indecorum, that the preservation of the fame and merit of
persons, and deriving the same to posterity, is no less the business
of history, than the truth of things. And if you are not of another
opinion, you cannot in justice deny me this assistance' (March 16,
1646-7: _State Papers_, 1773, vol. ii, p. 350).

'I told you long since, that when I came to speak of that unhappy
battle of Newbury, I would enlarge upon the memory of our dear friend
that perished there; to which I conceive myself obliged, not more by
the rights of friendship, than of history, which ought to transmit the
virtue of excellent persons to posterity; and therefore I am careful
to do justice to every man who hath fallen in the quarrel, on which
side soever, as you will find by what I have said of Mr. Hambden
himself. I am now past that point; and being quickened your most
elegant and political commemoration of him, and from hints there,
thinking it necessary to say somewhat for his vindication in such
particulars as may possibly have made impression in good men, it may
be I have insisted longer upon the argument than may be agreeable to
the rules to be observed in such a work; though it be not much longer
than Livy is in recollecting the virtues of one of the Scipios after
his death. I wish it were with you, that you might read it; for if
you thought it unproportionable for the place where it is, I could
be willingly diverted to make it a piece by itself, and inlarge it
into the whole size of his life; and that way it would be sooner
communicated to the world. And you know Tacitus published the life
of Julius Agricola, before either of his annals or his history. I
am contented you should laugh at me for a fop in talking of Livy or
Tacitus; when all I can hope for is to side Hollingshead, and Stow, or
(because he is a poor Knight too, and worse than either of them) Sir
Richard Baker' (December 14, 1647, _id._ p. 386).

Page 71, l. 22. _Turpe mori_. Lucan, ix. 108.

l. 26. His mother's father, Sir Lawrence Tanfield, Chief Baron of the
Exchequer. He died in May 1625. See p. 87, ll. 21 ff.

Page 72, l. 3. _His education_. See p. 87, ll. 6-13. His father, Henry
Carey, first Viscount, was Lord Deputy of Ireland from 1622 to 1629,
when he was recalled. He died in 1633.

l. 30. _his owne house_, at Great Tew, 16 miles NW. of Oxford;
inherited from Sir Lawrence Tanfield. The house was demolished in
1790, but the gardens remain.

PAGE 74, l. 14. _two large discources_. See p. 94, ll. 10-15.
Falkland's _Of the Infallibilitie of the Church of Rome ... Now
first published from a Copy of his owne hand_ had appeared at Oxford
in 1645, two years before Clarendon wrote this passage. It is a
short pamphlet of eighteen quarto pages. It had been circulated in
manuscript during his lifetime, and he had written a _Reply_ to an
_Answer_ to it. The second 'large discource' may be this _Reply_. Or
it may be his _Answer to a Letter of Mr. Mountague, justifying his
change of Religion, being dispersed in many Copies_. Both of these
were first published, along with the _Infallibilitie_, in 1651, under
the editorship of Dr. Thomas Triplet, tutor of the third Viscount,
to whom the volume is dedicated. The dedication is in effect a
character of Falkland, and dwells in particular on his great virtue
of friendship. A passage in it recalls Clarendon. 'And your blessed
Mother', says Triplet, 'were she now alive, would say, she had the
best of Friends before the best of Husbands. This was it that made
_Tew_ so valued a Mansion to us: For as when we went from _Oxford_
thither, we found our selves never out of the Universitie: So we
thought our selves never absent from our own beloved home'.

l. 25. He was Member for Newport in the Isle of Wight in The Short
Parliament, and again in The Long Parliament.

Page 75, l. 5. His father was Controller of the Household before his
appointment as Lord Deputy of Ireland. Cf. p. 91, ll. 3, 4.

l. 18. _L'd Finch_, Sir John Finch (1584-1660), Speaker, Chief Justice
of the Common Pleas, and Lord Keeper, created Baron Finch, 1640. He
was impeached in 1640 and fled to Holland. 'The Lord Falkland took
notice of the business of ship-money, and very sharply mentioned the
lord Finch as the principal promoter of it, and that, being then
a sworn judge of the law, he had not only given his own judgement
against law, but been the solicitor to corrupt all the other judges to
concur with him in their opinion; and concluded that no man ought to
be more severely prosecuted than he' (Clarendon, vol. i, p. 230).

Page 77, l. 26. _haud semper_, Tacitus, _Agricola_, ix.

Page 78, l. 17. _in republica Platonis_, Cicero, _Epis. ad Atticum_,
ii. 1.

l. 20. _it_, i.e. his avoiding them.

l. 30. Sir Harry Vane, the elder, was dismissed from the Secretaryship
of State in November 1641. In an earlier section of the _History_
(vol. i, p. 458) Clarendon claims responsibility for Falkland's
acceptance of the Secretaryship: 'It was a very difficult task to
Mr. Hyde, who had most credit with him, to persuade him to submit to
this purpose of the King cheerfully, and with a just sense of the
obligation, by promising that in those parts of the office which
required most drudgery he would help him the best he could, and would
quickly inform him of all the necessary forms. But, above all, he
prevailed with him by enforcing the ill consequence of his refusal',
&c.

Page 80, l. 19. _in tanto viro_, Tacitus, _Agricola_, ix.

l. 20. _Some sharpe expressions_. See the quotation by Fuller, p.
105, ll. 14, 15. Clarendon refers to Falkland's speech 'Concerning
Episcopacy' in the debate on the bill for depriving the bishops of
their votes, introduced on March 30, 1641: 'The truth is, Master
Speaker, that as some ill Ministers in our state first tooke
away our mony from us, and after indeavoured to make our mony
not worth the taking, by turning it into brasse by a kind of
_Antiphilosophers-stone_: so these men used us in the point of
preaching, first depressing it to their power, and next labouring
to make it such, as the harme had not beene much if it had beene
depressed, the most frequent subjects even in the most sacred
auditories, being the _Jus divinum_ of Bishops and tithes, the
sacrednesse of the clergie, the sacriledge of impropriations,
the demolishing of puritanisme and propriety, the building of the
prerogative at _Pauls_, the introduction of such doctrines, as,
admitting them true, the truth would not recompence the scandall; or
of such as were so far false, that, as Sir _Thomas More_ sayes of the
Casuists, their businesse was not to keepe men from sinning, but to
enforme them _Quam prope ad peccatum sine peccato liceat accedere_:
so it seemed their worke was to try how much of a Papist might bee
brought in without Popery, and to destroy as much as they could of the
Gospell, without bringing themselves into danger of being destroyed by
the Law.'--_Speeches and Passages of This Great and Happy Parliament:
From the third of November, 1640 to this instant June, 1641_, p. 190.
The speech is reprinted in Lady Theresa Lewis's _Lives of the Friends
of Clarendon_, 1852, vol. i, pp. 53-62.

Page 82, ll. 23-6. See p. 90, ll. 6-13.

Page 83, l. 2. Falkland's participation in 'the Northern Expedition
against the Scots', 1639, was the subject of a eulogistic poem by
Cowley:

  Great is thy _Charge_, O _North_; be wise and just,
  _England_ commits her _Falkland_ to thy trust;
  Return him safe: _Learning_ would rather choose
  Her _Bodley_, or her _Vatican_ to loose.
  All things that are but _writ_ or _printed_ there,
  In his unbounded Breast _engraven_ are, &c.

It was the occasion also of Waller's 'To my Lord of Falkland'.

l. 14. _et in luctu_, Tacitus, _Agricola_, xxix.

l. 15. _the furious resolution_, passed on November 24, 1642, after
the battle at Brentford: see Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 395-9.

Page 84, l. 9. _adversus malos_, Tacitus, _Agricola_, xxii.

ll. 11-28. The date of this incident is uncertain. Professor Firth
believes it to have happened when the House resolved that Colonel
Goring 'deserved very well of the Commonwealth, and of this House',
for his discovery of the army plot, June 9, 1641 (_Journals of the
House of Commons_, vol. ii, p. 172).

Page 85, l. 18. _the leaguer before Gloster_. The siege of Gloucester
was raised by the Earl of Essex on September 8, 1643. Clarendon
had described it (vol. iii, pp. 167 ff.) just before he came to the
account of Falkland.

Page 86, l. 1. _the battell_, i.e. of Newbury, September 20, 1643. How
Falkland met his death is told in Byron's narrative of the fight: 'My
Lord of Falkland did me the honour to ride in my troop this day, and I
would needs go along with him, the enemy had beat our foot out of the
close, and was drawne up near the hedge; I went to view, and as I was
giving orders for making the gap wide enough, my horse was shott in
the throat with a musket bullet and his bit broken in his mouth so
that I was forced to call for another horse, in the meanwhile my Lord
Falkland (more gallantly than advisedly) spurred his horse through the
gapp, where both he and his horse were immediately killed.' See Walter
Money, _The Battles of Newbury_, 1884, p. 52; also p. 93.

A passage in Whitelocke's _Memorials_, ed. 1682, p. 70, shows that
he had a presentiment of his death: 'The Lord _Falkland_, Secretary
of State, in the morning of the fight, called for a clean shirt, and
being asked the reason of it, answered, _that if he were slain in the
Battle, they should not find, his body in foul Linnen_. Being diswaded
by his friends to goe into the fight, as having no call to it, and
being no Military Officer, he said _he was weary of the times, and
foresaw much misery to his own Countrey, and did beleive be should be
out of it ere night_, and could not be perswaded to the contrary, but
would enter into the battle, and was there slain.'


22.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 51-4; _Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 19-23.

This is Falkland in his younger days, amid the hospitable pleasures of
Tew, before he was overwhelmed in politics and war.

Page 86, l. 20. _he_, i.e. Clarendon.

Page 88, l. 2. _the two most pleasant places_, Great Tew (see p. 72,
l. 30) and Burford, where Falkland was born. He sold Burford in 1634
to William Lenthall, the Speaker of the Long Parliament: see p. 91, l.
5.

Page 89, l. 2. He married Lettice, daughter of Sir Richard Morrison
of Tooley Park, Leicestershire. His friendship with her brother Henry
is celebrated in an ode by Ben Jonson, 'To the immortall memorie, and
friendship of that noble paire, Sir Lucius Cary, and Sir H. Morison'
(_Under-woods_, 1640, p. 232).

Page 91, ll. 17-20. So in the MS. The syntax is confused, but the
sense is clear.

Page 92, ll. 21, 22. Gilbert Sheldon (1598-1677), Archbishop of
Canterbury, 1663; Chancellor of the University of Oxford, and builder
of the Sheldonian Theatre there.

George Morley (1597-1684), Bishop of Worcester, 1660.

Henry Hammond (1605-60), chaplain to Charles I.

Clarendon has given short characters of Sheldon and Morley in his
_Life_. For his characters of Earle and Chillingworth, see Nos. 50 and
52.

Page 94, l. 11. See note p. 74, l. 14.

Page 95, l. 3. Cf. p. 78, l. 17.

l. 17. It is notable that Clarendon nowhere suggests that Falkland was
also a poet. Cowley gives his verses the highest praise in his address
to him on the Northern Expedition (see p. 83, l. 2, note); and they
won him a place in Suckling's _Sessions of the Poets_:

  He was of late so gone with Divinity
  That he had almost forgot his Poetry,
  Though to say the truth (and _Apollo_ did know it)
  He might have been both his Priest and his Poet.

His poems were collected and edited by A.B. Grosart in 1871.


23.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 55; _Life_, ed. 1759, p. 24.

This very pleasing portrait of Godolphin serves as a pendant to the
longer and more elaborate description of his friend. Clarendon wrote
also a shorter character of him in the _History_ (vol. ii, pp. 457-8).

Page 96, l. 2. _so very small a body_. He is the 'little Cid' (i.e.
Sidney) of Suckling's _Sessions of the Poets_.

PAGE 97, l. 1. He was member for Helston from 1628 to 1643.

l. 6. In the character in the _History_ Clarendon says that he left
'the ignominy of his death upon a place which could never otherwise
have had a mention to the world'. The place was Chagford.


24.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 69-70; _History_, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 69-73; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 119-25.

The three characters of Laud here given supplement each other. They
convey the same idea of the man.

Page 97, l. 20. George Abbott (1562-1633), Archbishop of Canterbury,
1611. In the preceding paragraph Clarendon had written an unfavourable
character of him. He 'considered Christian religion no otherwise than
as it abhorred and reviled Popery, and valued those men most who did
that most furiously': 'if men prudently forbore a public reviling
and railing at the hierarchy and ecclesiastical government, let their
opinions and private practice be what it would, they were not only
secure from any inquisition of his, but acceptable to him, and at
least equally preferred by him': his house was 'a sanctuary to the
most eminent of that factious party'. Cf. p. 100, ll. 21-7.

Page 101, l. 2. In the omitted portion Clarendon dealt with the
'Arminianism', as it was then understood in England: 'most of the
popular preachers, who had not looked into the ancient learning, took
Calvin's word for it, and did all they could to propagate his opinions
in those points: they who had studied more, and were better versed
in the antiquities of the Church, the Fathers, the Councils, and the
ecclesiastical histories, with the same heat and passion in preaching
and writing, defended the contrary. But because in the late dispute in
the Dutch churches, those opinions were supported by Jacobus Arminius,
the divinity professor in the university of Leyden in Holland, the
latter men we mentioned were called Arminians, though many of them
had never read a word written by Arminius'. Arminius (the name is the
Latinized form of Harmens or Hermans) died in 1609.


25.

The Church-History of Britain, 1648, Bk. XI, pp. 217-9.

Page 104, l. 15. Canterbury College was founded at Oxford in 1363 by
Simon Islip, Archbishop of Canterbury. It was incorporated in Christ
Church, Wolsey's foundation, and so 'lost its name'; but the name
survives in the Canterbury quadrangle.

Page 105, l. 13. _Lord F._, i.e. Lord Falkland: see p. 80, l. 20 note.


26.

Mémoires of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 78-82, 89-93.

Page 107, l. 27. _cleansed it by fire_. Perhaps a reminiscence of
Dryden's _Annus Mirabilis_, 1667, stanza 276:

  The daring Flames peep't in, and saw from far
    The awful Beauties of the Sacred Quire:
  But since it was prophan'd by Civil War,
    Heav'n thought it fit to have it purg'd by fire.

l. 29. _too too_, so in the original; perhaps but not certainly a
misprint.


27.

Mémoires, 1701, pp. 93-6.

Page 112, l. 9. _Lord Portland_, Sir Richard Weston: see No. 5.

l. 13. _white staff_, see p. 21, l. 7 note.


28.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 152-3; _History_, Bk. IV, ed. 1702, vol. i,
pp. 332-3; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 563-5.

This is the first of three characters of Hertford in Clarendon's
_History_. The others, in Bk. VI (MS. Life) ed. Macray, ii. 528, and
Bk. VII (MS. History) iii. 128, are supplementary.

Page 114, l. 10. _disobligations_, on account of his secret marriage
with James's cousin, Arabella Stuart, daughter of Charles Stuart, Earl
of Lennox, brother of the Earl of Darnley. She died a prisoner in the
Tower; he escaped to France, but after her death was allowed to return
to England in 1616. He succeeded his grandfather as Earl of Hertford
in 1621. He lived in retirement from the dissolution of Parliament in
March 1629 to 1640, when he was made a Privy Councillor.

Page 115, l. 5. He was appointed Governor to the Prince of Wales in
May 1641, in succession to the Earl of Newcastle. He was then in his
fifty-third year. In the following month he was made a Marquis. See
his life in Lady Theresa Lewis's _Lives of the Friends of Clarendon_,
vol. ii, pp. 436-42.

Page 116, l. 2. _attacque_, an unexpected form of 'attach' at this
time, and perhaps a slip, but 'attack' and 'attach' are ultimately the
same word; cf. Italian _attaccare_. The _New English Dictionary_ gives
an instance in 1666 of 'attach' in the sense of 'attack'.


29.

Clarendon, MS. History, Transcript, vol. iv, pp. 440-2; _History_, Bk.
VIII, ed. 1703, vol. ii, pp. 391-3; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 380-3.

The original manuscript of much of Book VIII is lost. The text is
taken from the transcript that was made for the printers.

This is the portrait of a great English nobleman whose tastes
lay in music and poetry and the arts of peace, but was forced by
circumstances into the leadership of the Royalist army in the North.
He showed little military talent, though he was far from devoid
of personal courage; and he escaped from the conflict, weary and
despondent, when other men were content to carry on the unequal
struggle. He modelled himself on the heroes of Romance. The part he
tried to play could not be adjusted to the rude events of the civil
war.

His romantic cast of mind is shown in his challenge to Lord Fairfax to
follow 'the Examples of our Heroick Ancestors, who used not to spend
their time in scratching one another out of holes, but in pitched
Fields determined their Doubts'. Fairfax replied by expressing his
readiness to fight but refusing to follow 'the Rules of _Amadis
de Gaule_, or the Knight of the Sun, which the language of the
Declaration seems to affect in appointing pitch'd battles' (Rushworth,
_Historical Collections_, third part, vol. ii, 1692, pp. 138, 141).

Warwick's short character of Newcastle resembles Clarendon's: 'He was
a Gentleman of grandeur, generosity, loyalty, and steddy and forward
courage; but his edge had too much of the razor in it: for he had
a tincture of a Romantick spirit, and had the misfortune to have
somewhat of the Poet in him; so as he chose Sir William Davenant, an
eminent good Poet, and loyall Gentleman, to be Lieutenant-Generall
of his Ordnance. This inclination of his own and such kind of
witty society (to be modest in the expressions of it) diverted many
counsels, and lost many opportunities; which the nature of that
affair, this great man had now entred into, required' (_Mémoires_, pp.
235-6).

His life by the Duchess of Newcastle--the 'somewhat fantastical, and
original-brain'd, generous Margaret Newcastle', as Charles Lamb calls
her--was published in 1667. The edition by C.H. Firth, 1886, contains
copious historical notes, and an introduction which points out
Newcastle's place as a patron and author.

Page 116, ll. 15-22. Newcastle had been besieged at York. He was
relieved by Prince Rupert, who, against Newcastle's advice, forced on
the disastrous battle of Marston Moor (July 2, 1644) without waiting
for reinforcements. In this battle Newcastle was not in command
but fought at the head of a company of volunteers. The next day he
embarked at Scarborough for the continent, where he remained till the
Restoration.

l. 24. He published two books on horsemanship--_La Méthode et
Invention Nouvelle de Dresser les Chevaux_, written originally in
English, but printed in French at Antwerp in 1658, and _A New Method
and Extraordinary Invention to Dress Horses_, 1667. The former was
dedicated to Prince Charles, whom, as Governor, he had taught to
ride. On his reputation as a horseman, see C.H. Firth, _op. cit._, pp.
xx-xxii.

Page 117, l. 20. He was Governor of the Prince from 1638 to 1641: cf.
note on p. 115, l. 5.

l. 29. Newcastle-upon-Tyne (from which he took his title) was
'speedily and dexterously' secured for the King at the end of June
1642 'by his lordship's great interest in those parts, the
ready compliance of the best of the gentry, and the general good
inclinations of the place' (Clarendon, vol. ii, p. 227).

Page 118, l. 17. Henry Clifford (1591-1643) fifth Earl of Cumberland.
He had commanded the Royalist forces in Yorkshire, but was 'in his
nature inactive, and utterly inexperienced'. He willingly gave up
the command (Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 282, 464-5). He died shortly
afterwards.

l. 28. _this last_, Marston Moor.

Page 119, l. 8. _unacquainted with War_. Clarendon expressed himself
privately on this point much more emphatically than the nature of his
_History_ would allow: 'you will find the Marquis of Newcastle a very
lamentable man and as fit to be a General as a Bishop.' (Letter to
Sir Edward Nicholas, dated Madrid, June 4, 1650: _State Papers_, 1786,
vol. iii, p. 20.)

l. 10. James King (1589?-1652?), created Baron Eythin and Kerrey in
the Scottish peerage in 1643. He had been a general in the army of the
King of Sweden, and returned to this country in 1640. He left it with
Newcastle after Marston Moor. He entirely disapproved of Rupert's
plans for the battle; his comment, as reported by Clarendon, was 'By
God, sir, it is very fyne in the paper, but ther is no such thinge in
the Feilds' (vol. iii, p. 376).


30.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 136; _History_, Bk. IV, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp.
270-1; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 461-3.

The references to Digby in various parts of the _History_ show the
interest--sometimes an amused interest--that Clarendon took in his
strange and erratic character. 'The temper and composition of his mind
was so admirable, that he was always more pleased and delighted that
he had advanced so far, which he imputed to his virtue and conduct,
than broken or dejected that his success was not answerable, which
he still charged upon second causes, for which he could not be
accountable' (vol. iv, p. 122). 'He was a person of so rare a
composition by nature and by art, (for nature alone could never have
reached to it,) that he was so far from being ever dismayed by any
misfortune, (and greater variety of misfortunes never befell any man,)
that he quickly recollected himself so vigorously, that he did really
believe his condition to be improved by that ill accident' (_id._, p.
175). But the interest is shown above all by the long study of Digby
that he wrote at Montpelier in 1669. It was first printed in his
_State Papers_, 1786, vol. iii, supplement, pp. li-lxxiv. The
manuscript--a transcript revised by Clarendon--is in the Bodleian
Library, Clarendon MS. 122, pp. 1-48.

Page 120, l. 8. _the other three_, Sir John Culpeper, or Colepeper;
Lord Falkland; and Clarendon.

Page 121, l. 2. _sharpe reprehension_. 'He was committed to the Fleet
in June 1634, but released in July, for striking Mr. Crofts in Spring
Garden, within the precincts of the Court. _Cal. Dom. State. Papers_,
1634-5 (1864), pp. 81, 129'--Macray, vol. i, p. 461.

Shaftesbury gives a brief sketch of him at this time in his
fragmentary autobiography: 'The Earl of Bristoll was retired from all
business and lived privately to himself; but his son the Lord Digby,
a very handsome young man of great courage and learning and of a quick
wit, began to show himself to the world and gave great expectations
of himself, he being justly admired by all, and only gave himself
disadvantage with a pedantic stiffness and affectation he had
contracted.'

l. 19. As Baron Digby, during the lifetime of his father; June 9,
1641.

Page 123, l. 5. _a very unhappy councell_, the impeachment and
attempted 'Arrest of the Five Members', January 3 and 4, 1642. Compare
Clarendon, vol. i, p. 485: 'And all this was done without the least
communication with any body but the Lord Digby, who advised it.'


31.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 389, and MS. History, p. 25 (or 597);
_History_, Bk. XI, ed. 1704, vol. iii, pp. 210-11; ed. Macray, vol.
iv, pp. 510-11.

This admirable character was not all written at the same time. The
first sentence is from Clarendon's Life, and the remainder from the
History, where the date, '21 Nov. 1671', is appended. 123, l. 15.
_Crumwells owne character_,--in the debate in Parliament on carrying
out the sentence of death, March 8, 1649. Clarendon had briefly
described Cromwell's speech: 'Cromwell, who had known him very well,
spake so much good of him, and professed to have so much kindness
and respect for him, that all men thought he was now safe, when he
concluded, that his affection to the public so much weighed down his
private friendship, that he could not but tell them, that the question
was now, whether they would preserve the most bitter and the most
implacable enemy they had' (vol. iv, p. 506).

l. 22. He married in November 1626, Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Charles
Morrison, of Cassiobury, Hertfordshire, and granddaughter of the first
Viscount Campden. Their daughter Theodosia was the wife of the second
Earl of Clarendon.

Page 124, l. 13. _an indignity_, probably a reference to Lord Hopton's
command of the army in the west; see vol. iv, p. 131.


32.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 273; _History_, Bk. VIII, ed. 1703, vol. ii,
pp. 427-8; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 443-5.

The four generals in this group are described on various occasions in
the _History_. In this passage Clarendon sums up shortly what he says
elsewhere, and presents a parallel somewhat in the manner of Plutarch.

Page 125, l. 23. Clarendon has a great passage in Book VII (vol. iii,
pp. 224-6) on the value of Councils, even when the experience and
wisdom of the councillors individually may not promise the right
decisions. The passage is suggested by, and immediately follows, a
short character of Prince Rupert.

Page 126, ll. 15, 16. Clarendon refers to the retreat of the
Parliamentary Army at Lostwithiel, on August 31, 1644, when Essex
embarked the foot at Fowey and escaped by sea, and Sir William Balfour
broke away with the horse. In describing it, Clarendon says that 'the
notice and orders came to Goring when he was in one of his jovial
exercises; which he received with mirth, and slighting those who sent
them, as men who took alarms too warmly; and he continued his delights
till all the enemy's horse were passed through his quarters, nor did
then pursue them in any time' (vol. iii, p. 403; cf. p. 391). But
Goring's horse was not so posted as to be able to check Balfour's.
See the article on Goring by C.H. Firth in the _Dictionary of National
Biography_ and S.R. Gardiner's _Civil War_, 1893, vol. ii, pp. 13-17.
Clarendon was misinformed; yet this error in detail does not impair
the truth of the portrait.


33.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 447-8; _History_, Bk. VII, ed. 1704, vol.
ii, pp. 204-6; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 61-4.

The studied detachment that Clarendon tried to cultivate when writing
about his political enemies is nowhere shown better than in the
character of Hampden. 'I am careful to do justice', he claimed, 'to
every man who hath fallen in the quarrel, on which side soever, as
you will find by what I have said of Mr. Hambden himself' (see No.
21, note). The absence of all enthusiasm makes the description of
Hampden's merits the more telling. But there is a tail with a sting in
it.

The last sentence, it must be admitted, is not of a piece with
the rest of the character. There was some excuse for doubting its
authenticity. But doubts gave place to definite statements that it
had been interpolated by the Oxford editors when seeing the
_History_ through the press. Edmund Smith, the author of _Phædra and
Hippolytus_, started the story that while he was resident in Christ
Church he was 'employ'd to interpolate and alter the Original', and
specially mentioned this sentence as having been 'foisted in'; and
the story was given a prominent place by Oldmixon in his _History of
England, during the Reigns of the Royal House of Stuart_ (see _Letters
of Thomas Burnat to George Duckett_, ed. Nichol Smith, 1914, p. xx).
A controversy ensued, the final contribution to which is John Burton's
_Genuineness of L'd Clarendon's History Vindicated_, 1744. Once the
original manuscript was accessible, all doubt was removed. Every word
of the sentence is there to be found in Clarendon's hand. But it is
written along the margin, to take the place of a deleted sentence, and
is evidently later than the rest of the character. This accounts for
the difference in tone.

Page 129, ll. 22 ff. Compare Warwick, _Mémoires_, p. 240: 'He was of
a concise and significant language, and the mildest, yet subtillest,
speaker of any man in the House; and had a dexterity, when a question
was going to be put, which agreed not with his sense, to draw it over
to it, by adding some equivocall or sly word, which would enervate the
meaning of it, as first put.'

At the beginning of this short character of Hampden, Warwick says that
'his blood in its temper was acrimonious, as the scurfe commonly on
his face shewed'.

Page 131, l. 4. _this that was at Oxforde_, i.e. the overture,
February and March 1643: Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 497 ff.

ll. 24-6. _Erat illi_, &c. Cicero, _Orat. in Catilinam_ iii. 7.
'Cinna' should be 'Catiline'.


34.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 525-7; _History_, Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol.
ii, pp. 353-5; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 321-4.

The character of Pym does not show the same detachment as the
character of Hampden. Clarendon has not rejected unauthenticated
Royalist rumour.

Page 132, ll. 7-9. This rumour occasioned the publication of an
official narrative of his disease and death, 'attested under the Hands
of his Physicians, Chyrurgions, and Apothecary', from which it appears
that he died of an intestinal abscess. See John Forster's _John Pym_
('Lives of Eminent British Statesmen', vol. iii), pp. 409-11.

l. 19. He was member for Tavistock from 1624.

Page 133, l. 26. Oliver St. John (1603-42), Solicitor-General,
mortally wounded at Edgehill.

ll. 29, 30. Cf. p. 129, ll. 15-18.

Page 134, l. 3. Francis Russell (1593-1641), fourth Earl of Bedford.
'This lord was the greatest person of interest in all the popular
party, being of the best estate and best understanding of the whole
pack, and therefore most like to govern the rest; he was besides of
great civility, and of much more good-nature than any of the others.
And therefore the King, resolving to do his business with that party
by him, resolved to make him Lord High Treasurer of England, in the
place of the Bishop of London, who was as willing to lay down the
office as any body was to take it up; and, to gratify him the more, at
his desire intended to make Mr. Pimm Chancellor of the Exchequer, as
he had done Mr. St. John his Solicitor-General' (Clarendon, vol. i,
p. 333). The plan was frustrated by Bedford's death in 1641. The
Chancellorship of the Exchequer was bestowed on Culpeper (_id._, p.
457).

ll. 27 ff. The authority for this story is the _Mercurius Academicus_
for February 3, 1645-6 (pp. 74-5), a journal of the Court party
published at Oxford (hence the title), and the successor of the
_Mercurius Aulicus_. The Irishman is there reported to have made this
confession on the scaffold.

Page 135, ll. 25-8. _The last Summer_, i.e. before Pym's death, 1643.
See Clarendon, vol. iii, pp. 116, 135, 141.

Page 136, ll. 7-10. He died on December 8, 1643, and was buried on
December 13 in Westminster Abbey, whence his body was ejected at the
Restoration.


35.

Clarendon, MS. History, Bk. X, p. 24 (or 570); _History_, ed. 1704,
vol. iii, pp. 84-5; ed. Macray, vol. iv, pp. 305-7.

The two characters of Cromwell by Clarendon were written about the
same time. Though the first is from the manuscript of the History,
it belongs to a section that was added in 1671, when the matter in
the original History was combined with the matter in the Life. It
describes Cromwell as Clarendon remembered him before he had risen
to his full power. He was then in Clarendon's eyes preeminently a
dissembler--'the greatest dissembler living'. The other character
views him in the light of his complete achievement. It represents
him, with all his wickedness, as a man of 'great parts of courage and
industry and judgement'. He is a 'bad man', but a 'brave, bad man',
to whose success, remarkable talents, and even some virtues, must have
contributed. The recognition of his greatness was unwilling; it was
all the more sincere.

'Crumwell' is Clarendon's regular spelling.

Page 136, l. 22. Hampden's mother, Elizabeth Cromwell, was the sister
of Cromwell's father.

Page 138, l. 18. _the Modell_, i.e. the New Model Army, raised in the
Spring of 1645. See C.H. Firth's _Cromwell's Army_, 1902, ch. iii.

l. 21. _chaunged a Generall_, the Earl of Essex. See No. 40.


36.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 549-50; _History_, Bk. XV, ed. 1704, vol.
iii, pp. 505-6, 509; ed. Macray, vol. vi, pp. 91-2, 97.

Page 139, ll. 3, 4. _quos vituperare_, Cicero, _Pro Fonteio_, xvii.
39 'Is igitur vir, quem ne inimicus quidem satis in appellando
significare poterat, nisi ante laudasset.'

ll. 19, 20. _Ausum eum_, Velleius Paterculus, ii. 24.

Page 140, ll. 9-12. Machiavelli, _The Prince_, ch. vii.

ll. 17-22. Editorial taste in 1704 transformed this sentence thus:
'In a word, as he was guilty of many Crimes against which Damnation
is denounced, and for which Hell-fire is prepared, so he had some good
Qualities which have caused the Memory of some Men in all Ages to be
celebrated; and he will be look'd upon by Posterity as a brave wicked
Man.'


37.

Mémoires Of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 247-8.

Page 141, l. 17. _a servant of Mr. Prynn's_, John Lilburne (1614-57).
But it is doubtful if he was Prynne's servant; see the article in the
_Dictionary of National Biography_. Lilburne's petition was presented
by Cromwell on November 9, 1640, and referred to a Committee; and
on May 4, 1641, the House resolved 'That the Sentence of the
Star-Chamber, given against John Lilborne, is illegal, and against the
Liberty of the Subject; and also, bloody, wicked, cruel, barbarous,
and tyrannical' (_Journals of the House of Commons_, vol. ii, pp. 24,
134).

ll. 29, 30. Warwick was imprisoned on suspicion of plotting against
the Protector's Government in 1655.


38.

A Collection of the State Papers of John Thurloe, Esq.; Edited by
Thomas Birch, 1742, vol. i, p. 766.

This passage is from a letter written to 'John Winthrop, esq; governor
of the colony of Connecticut in New England', and dated 'Westminster,
March 24, 1659'.

Maidston was Cromwell's servant.


39.

Reliquiæ Baxterianæ: or, Mr. Richard Baxter's Narrative of The most
Memorable Passages of his Life and Times. Faithfully Publish'd from
his own Original Manuscript, By Matthew Sylvester. London: MDCXCVI.
(Lib. I, Part I, pp. 98-100.)

The interest of this character lies largely in its Presbyterian point
of view. It is a carefully balanced estimate by one who had been a
chaplain in the Parliamentary army, but opposed Cromwell when, after
the fall of Presbyterianism, he assumed the supreme power.

Page 144, ll. 19-24. See the article by C.H. Firth on 'The Raising of
the Ironsides' in the Transactions of the Royal Historical Society,
1899, vol. xiii, and its sequel, 'The Later History of the Ironsides',
1901, vol. xv; and the articles on John Desborough (who married
Cromwell's sister) and James Berry in the _Dictionary of National
Biography_. 'Who Captain Ayres was it is difficult to say ... He left
the regiment about June 1644, and his troop was given to James Berry
... the captain-lieutenant of Cromwell's own troop'. (R.H.S. Trans.,
vol. xiii, pp. 29, 30). Berry subsequently became one of Cromwell's
major-generals. His character is briefly sketched by Baxter, who
calls him 'my old Bosom Friend', _Reliquiæ_, 1696, p. 57. For Captain
William Evanson, see R.H.S. Trans., vol. xv, pp. 22-3.

Page 146, l. 12. A passage from Bacon's essay 'Of Faction' (No. 51)
is quoted in the margin in the edition of 1696. 'Fraction' in l. 12 is
probably a misprint for 'Faction'.

Page 148, ll. 7-10. The concluding sentence of the essay 'Of
Simulation and Dissimulation'. Brackets were often used at this time
to mark a quotation.


40.

Reliquiæ Baxterianæ, 1696, Lib. I, Part I, p. 48.

Much the same opinion of Fairfax was held by Sir Philip Warwick and
Clarendon. Warwick says he was 'a man of a military genius, undaunted
courage and presence of mind in the field both in action and danger,
but of a very common understanding in all other affairs, and of a
worse elocution; and so a most fit tool for Mr. Cromwel to work with'
(_Mémoires_, p. 246). Clarendon alludes to him as one 'who had no
eyes, and so would be willinge to be ledd' (p. 138, l. 24). But Milton
saw him in a different light when he addressed to him the sonnet on
his capture of Colchester in August 1648:

  _Fairfax_, whose name in armes through Europe rings
  Filling each mouth with envy, or with praise,...
  Thy firm unshak'n vertue ever brings
  Victory home,...
  O yet a nobler task awaites thy hand;
  For what can Warr, but endless warr still breed,
  Till Truth, & Right from Violence be freed,
  And Public Faith cleard from the shamefull brand
  Of Public Fraud. In vain doth Valour bleed
  While Avarice, & Rapine share the land.

Fairfax's military capacity is certain, and his private virtues are
unquestioned. Writing in 1648, Milton credited him with the power to
settle the affairs of the nation. But Fairfax was not a politician. He
broke with Cromwell over the execution of the king, and in July 1650
retired into private life. Baxter, Warwick, and Clarendon all wrote
of him at a distance of time that showed his merits and limitations in
truer perspective.

Milton addressed him again when singing the praises of Bradshaw and
Cromwell and other Parliamentary leaders in his _Pro Populo Anglicano
Defensio Secunda_, 1654. As a specimen of a contemporary Latin
character, and a character by Milton, the passage is now quoted in
full:

'Sed neque te fas est præterire, _Fairfaxi_, in quo cum summa
fortitudine summam modestiam, summam vitæ sanctitatem, & natura &
divinus favor conjunxit: Tu harum in partem laudum evocandus tuo jure
ac merito es; quanquam in illo nunc tuo secessu, quantus olim Literni
Africanus ille Scipio, abdis te quoad potes; nec hostem solum, sed
ambitionem, & quæ præstantissimum quemque mortalium vincit, gloriam
quoque vicisti; tuisque virtutibus & præclare factis, jucundissimum &
gloriosissimum per otium frueris, quod est laborum omnium & humanarum
actionum vel maximarum finis; qualique otio cum antiqui Heroes, post
bella & decora tuis haud majora, fruerentur, qui eos laudare conati
sunt poetæ, desperabant se posse alia ratione id quale esset digne
describere, nisi eos fabularentur, coelo receptos, deorum epulis
accumbere. Verum te sive valetudo, quod maxime crediderim, sive
quid aliud retraxit, persuasissimum hoc habeo, nihil te a rationibus
reipublicæ divellere potuisse, nisi vidisses quantum libertatis
conservatorem, quam firmum atque fidum Anglicanæ rei columen ac
munimentum in successore tuo relinqueres' (ed. 1654, pp. 147-8).

Page 149, l. 9. The Self-denying Ordinance, discharging members of
Parliament from all offices, civil and military, passed both Houses on
April 3, 1645.

l. 18. He succeeded his father as third Lord Fairfax in 1648.

l. 21. See p. 118, ll. 8 ff.


41.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 103; _History_, Bk. III, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp.
148-9; ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 247-9.

Baxter has an account of Vane in his Autobiography: 'He was the
Principal Man that drove on the Parliament to go too high, and act
too vehemently against the King: Being of very ready Parts, and very
great Subtilty, and unwearied Industry, he laboured, and not without
Success, to win others in Parliament, City and Country to his Way.
When the Earl of _Strafford_ was accused, he got a Paper out of his
Father's Cabinet (who was Secretary of State) which was the chief
Means of his Condemnation: To most of our Changes he was that _within_
the House, which _Cromwell_ was _without_. His great Zeal to drive
all into War, and to the highest, and to cherish the Sectaries, and
especially in the Army, made him above all Men to be valued by that
Party ... When Cromwell had served himself by him as his surest
Friend, as long as he could; and gone as far with him as their way lay
together, (_Vane_ being for a Fanatick Democracie, and _Cromwell_ for
Monarchy) at last there was no Remedy but they must part; and when
_Cromwell_ cast out the Rump (as disdainfully as Men do Excrements)
he called _Vane_ a Jugler' (_Reliquiæ Baxterianæ_, Lib. I, Part I, p.
75). This account occurs in Baxter's description of the sectaries who
were named after him 'Vanists'.

Clarendon and Baxter both lay stress on the element of the fanatic
in Vane's nature; and in a later section of the _History_ Clarendon
speaks of it emphatically: ... 'Vane being a man not to be described
by any character of religion; in which he had swallowed some of the
fancies and extravagances of every sect or faction, and was become
(which cannot be expressed by any other language than was peculiar to
that time) _a man above ordinances_, unlimited and unrestrained by any
rules or bounds prescribed to other men, by reason of his perfection.
He was a perfect enthusiast, and without doubt did believe himself
inspired' (vol. vi, p. 148).

Milton's sonnet, to Vane 'young in yeares, but in sage counsell old'
gives no suggestion of the fanatic:

          besides to know
  Both spirituall powre & civill, what each meanes
  What severs each thou 'hast learnt, which few have don.
  The bounds of either sword to thee wee ow.
  Therfore on thy firme hand religion leanes
  In peace, & reck'ns thee her eldest son.

There was much in Vane's views about Church and State with which
Milton sympathized; and the sonnet was written in 1652, before
Cromwell broke with Vane.

See also Pepys's _Diary_, June 14, 1662, and Burnet's _History of His
Own Time_, ed. Osmund Airy, vol. i, pp. 284-6.

Page 150, ll. 13, 14. _Magdalen College_, a mistake for Magdalen Hall,
of which Vane was a Gentleman Commoner; but he did not matriculate.
See Wood's _Athenæ Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, vol. iii, col. 578.

l. 17. He returned to England in 1632; he had been in the train of the
English ambassador at Vienna.

ll. 25 ff. He transported himself into New England in 1635. He was
chosen Governor of Massachusetts in March 1636 and held the post
for one year, being defeated at the next election. He retransported
himself into England in August 1637.

Page 151, ll. 27-9. 'In New Hampshire and at Rhode Island. The grant
by the Earl of Warwick as the Governor of the King's Plantations in
America of a charter for Providence, &c., Rhode Island, is dated March
14, 164-3/4; _Calendar of Colonial State Papers_, 1574-1660, p. 325.
The code of laws adopted there in 1647 declares "sith our charter
gives us power to govern ourselves ... the form of government
established in Providence plantations is democratical." _Collections
of the Massachusetts Hist. Soc._, second series, vol. vii, p.
79.'--Note by Macray.

Page 152, ll. 2, 3. He married Frances, daughter of Sir Christopher
Wray, of Ashby, Lincolnshire.

ll. 5, 6. He was made joint Treasurer of the Navy in January 1639, and
was dismissed in December 1641.

ll. 10 ff. Strafford was created Baron of Raby in 1640. At the
conclusion of Book VI Clarendon says that the elder Vane's 'malice to
the Earl of Strafford (who had unwisely provoked him, wantonly and out
of contempt) transported him to all imaginable thoughts of revenge'.
Cf. p. 63, l. 25.


42.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 486 (first paragraph) and Life, p. 249
(second paragraph); _History_, Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol. ii, p. 292; ed.
Macray, vol. iii, pp. 216-17.

Clarendon added the first paragraph in the margin of the manuscript
of his earlier work when he dovetailed the two works to form the
_History_ in its final form.

Page 152, l. 27. _this Covenant_, the Solemn League and Covenant,
which passed both Houses on September 18, 1643: 'the battle of Newbery
being in that time likewise over (which cleared and removed more
doubts than the Assembly had done), it stuck very few hours with both
Houses; but being at once judged convenient and lawful, the Lords and
Commons and their Assembly of Divines met together at the church,
with great solemnity, to take it, on the five and twentieth day of
September' (Clarendon, vol. iii, p. 205).


43.

Memoirs of the Life of Colonel Hutchinson, Governor of Nottingham
Castle and Town ... Written by His Widow Lucy, Daughter of Sir Allen
Apsley, Lieutenant of the Tower, &c. Now first published from the
original manuscript by the Rev. Julius Hutchinson ... London: 1806.
(pp. 4-6.)

The original manuscript has disappeared, and the edition of 1806 is
the only authoritative text. It has been many times reprinted. It was
edited with introduction, notes, and appendices by C.H. Firth in 1885
(new edition, 1906).

The Memoirs as a whole are the best picture we possess of a puritan
soldier and household of the seventeenth century. They were written by
his widow as a consolation to herself and for the instruction of
her children. To 'such of you as have not seene him to remember his
person', she leaves, by way of introduction, 'His Description.' It is
this passage which is here reprinted.


44, 45, 46, 47, 48.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 212-15; _History_, Bk. VI, ed. 1703, vol. ii,
pp. 158-62; ed. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 541-8.

These five characters of Parliamentary peers follow one another at
the conclusion of Clarendon's sixth book, and are part of his 'view
of those persons who were of the King's Council, and had deserted his
service, and stayed in the Parliament to support the rebellion'.
A short passage on the Earl of Holland, between the characters of
Warwick and Manchester, is omitted.

Taken as a group, they are yet another proof of Clarendon's skill in
portraiture. Each character is clearly distinguished.

Page 159, ll. 7-10. His grandfather was William Cecil (1520-98), Lord
Burghley, the great minister of Elizabeth; his father was Robert Cecil
(1563-1612), created Earl of Salisbury, 1605, Secretary of State at
the accession of James.

Page 160, l. 9. He was member for King's Lynn in 1649, and
Hertfordshire in 1654 and 1656.

ll. 13-16. _Hic egregiis_, &c. Seneca, _De Beneficiis_, iv, cap. 30.

Page 161, ll. 3-19. 'Clarendon's view that Warwick was a jovial
hypocrite is scarcely borne out by other contemporary evidence. The
"jollity and good humour" which he mentions are indeed confirmed. "He
was one of the most best-natured and cheerfullest persons I have in
my time met with," writes his pious daughter-in-law (_Autobiography
of Lady Warwick_, ed. Croker, p. 27). Edmund Calamy, however, in his
sermon at Warwick's funeral, enlarges on his zeal for religion; and
Warwick's public conduct during all the later part of his career is
perfectly consistent with Calamy's account of his private life (_A
Pattern for All, especially for Noble Persons_, &c., 1658, 410, pp.
34-9).'--C.H. Firth, in the _Dictionary of National Biography_.

l. 13. _Randevooze_ (or _-vouze_, or _-vouce_, or _-vowes_) is a
normal spelling of _Rendezvous_ in the seventeenth century. The words
had been introduced into English by the reign of Elizabeth.

ll. 20-2. The proceedings are described at some length by Clarendon,
vol. ii, pp. 19-22, 216-23. Warwick was appointed Admiral by the
Parliament on July 1, 1642.

l. 23. The expulsion of the Long Parliament on April 20, 1653. A
thorough examination of all the authorities for the story of the
expulsion will be found in two articles by C.H. Firth in _History_,
October 1917 and January 1918.

ll. 24-5. Robert Rich, his grandson, married Frances, Cromwell's
youngest daughter, in November 1657, but died in the following
February, aged 23. See _Thurloe's State Papers_, vol. vi, p. 573.

Page 162, l. 11. _in Spayne_, on the occasion of the proposed Spanish
match.

ll. 22-3. He resigned his generalship on April 2, 1645, the day before
the Self-Denying Ordinance was passed.

ll. 24 ff. His first wife was Buckingham's cousin, their mothers
being sisters. He married his second wife in 1626, before Buckingham's
death. He was five times married.

Page 163, l. 11. _his father_, Henry Montagu (1563-1642), created
Baron Montagu of Kimbolton and Viscount Mandeville, 1620, and Earl of
Manchester, 1628. By the favour of Buckingham he had been made Lord
Treasurer in 1620, but within a year was deprived of the office and
'reduced to the empty title of President of the Council'; see the
character (on the whole favourable) by Clarendon, vol. i, pp. 67-9.

l. 12. Manchester and Warwick are described by Clarendon as 'the two
pillars of the Presbyterian party' (vol. iv, p. 245).

Page 164, l. 16. He was accused with the five members of the House of
Commons, January 3, 1642. Cf. p. 123, l. 5.

l. 26. Elsewhere Clarendon says that Manchester 'was known to have all
the prejudice imaginable against Cromwell' (vol. iv, p. 245). He lived
in retirement during the Commonwealth, but returned to public life at
the Restoration, when he was made Lord Chamberlain.

This character may be compared with Clarendon's other character of
Manchester, vol. i, pp. 242-3, and with the character in Warwick's
_Mémoires_, pp. 246-7. Burnet, speaking of him in his later years,
describes him as 'A man of a soft and obliging temper, of no great
depth, but universally beloved, being both a vertuous and a generous
man'.

Page 165, ll. 6-9. See Clarendon, vol. i, p. 259.

l. ii. _that unhappy kingdome_. This was written in France.

ll. 20-5. Antony à Wood did not share Clarendon's scepticism about
Say's descent, though he shared his dislike of Say himself: see
_Athenæ Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, vol. in, col. 546.

Page 166, ll. 25 ff. See Clarendon, ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 333-5. Cf.
note p. 134, l. 3. After the King's execution he took little part in
public affairs, but at the Restoration he managed to be made a Privy
Councillor and Lord Privy Seal.

Clarendon has another and shorter character of Say, which supplements
the character here given, and deals mainly with his ecclesiastical
politics (vol. i, p. 241). He was thought to be the only member of the
Independent party in the House of Peers (vol. iii, p. 507).

Arthur Wilson gives short characters of Essex, Warwick, and Say:
'_Saye_ and _Seale_ was a seriously subtil _Peece_, and alwayes averse
to the Court wayes, something out of pertinatiousnesse; his _Temper_
and _Constitution_ ballancing him altogether on that _Side_, which
was contrary to the _Wind_; so that he seldome tackt about or went
upright, though he kept his _Course_ steady in his owne way a long
time: yet it appeared afterwards, when the harshnesse of the humour
was a little allayed by the sweet _Refreshments_ of Court favours,
that those sterne _Comportments_ supposed _naturall_, might be
mitigated, and that indomitable Spirits by gentle usage may be tamed
and brought to obedience' (_Reign of King James I_, p. 162).


49.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 48-9: _Life_, ed. 1759, p. 16.

This and the four following characters of men of learning and letters
are taken from the early section of the _Life_ where Clarendon proudly
records his friendships and conversation with 'the most excellent men
in their several kinds that lived in that age, by whose learning and
information and instruction he formed his studies, and mended his
understanding, and by whose gentleness and sweetness of behaviour,
and justice, and virtue, and example, he formed his manners.' The
characters of Jonson, Falkland, and Godolphin which belong to the same
section have already been given.

Page 167, l. 27. _his conversation_, fortunately represented for us in
his _Table-Talk_, a collection of the 'excellent things that usually
fell from him', made by his amanuensis Richard Milward, and published
in 1689.

Page 168, l. 3. _M'r Hyde_, i.e. Clarendon himself.

l. 5. _Seldence_, a phonetic spelling, showing Clarendon's haste in
composition.

l.10. Selden was member for Oxford during the Long Parliament.

ll. 15, 16. Compare Clarendon's _History_, vol. ii, p. 114: 'he had
for many years enjoyed his ease, which he loved, was rich, and would
not have made a journey to York, or have lain out of his own bed, for
any preferment, which he had never affected. Compare also Aubrey's
_Brief Lives_, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii, p. 224: 'He was wont to say
"I'le keepe myselfe warme and moyst as long as I live, for I shall be
cold and dry when I am dead ".'


50.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 57; _Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 26-7.

Izaak Walton included a short character of Earle in his _Life of
Hooker_, published in the year of Earle's death: 'Dr. Earle, now Lord
Bishop of Salisbury, of whom I may justly say, (and let it not offend
him, because it is such a trifle as ought not to be concealed from
posterity, or those that now live, and yet know him not,) that since
Mr. Hooker died, none have lived whom God hath blessed with more
innocent wisdom, more sanctified learning, or a more pious, peaceable,
primitive temper: so that this excellent person seems to be only like
himself, and our venerable Richard Hooker.'

See also _Athenæ Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, vol. iii, cols. 716-9.

Page 168, l. 25. _Earle of Pembroke_, the fourth Earl, Lord
Chamberlain 1626-1641: see p. 4, l. 30, note.

Page 169, l. 3. _Proctour_, in 1631. The 'very witty and sharpe
discourses' are his _Micro-cosmographie_, first published anonymously
in 1628.

l. 23. Compare p. 72, ll. 29 ff., and p. 90, ll. 21 ff.

l. 28. He was made chaplain and tutor to Prince Charles in 1641. His
'lodginge in the court' as chaplain to the Lord Chamberlain had made
him known to the king.


51.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 57-8; _Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 27-8.

'The Ever Memorable Mr. John Hales, of Eaton-Colledge', as he is
called on the title-page of his _Golden Remains_, published in 1659
(second impression, 1673), is probably best known now by his remark
'That there was no subject of which any Poet ever writ, but he would
produce it much better treated of in Shakespeare'. This remark was
first given in print in Dryden's essay _Of Dramatick Poesie_, 1668,
and was repeated in varying forms in Nahum Tate's Dedication to the
_Loyal General_, 1680, Charles Gildon's _Reflections on Mr. Rymer's
Short View of Tragedy_, 1694, and Nicholas Rowe's _Account of the
Life of Shakespear_, 1709. But it had apparently been made somewhere
between 1633 and 1637 in the company of Lord Falkland. It is the one
gem that survives of this retired student's 'very open and pleasant
conversation'.

Clarendon's portrait explains the honour and affection in which the
'ever memorable' but now little known scholar was held by all his
friends. The best companion to it is the life by Wood, _Athenæ
Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, vol. iv, cols. 409-15. See also John Pearson's
preface to _Golden Remains_.

Page 170, ll. 10 ff. Hales was elected Fellow of Merton College in
1605, and Regius Professor of Greek in 1615. His thirty-two letters to
Sir Dudley Carlton (cf. p. 58, l. 20) reporting the proceedings of the
Synod of Dort, run from November 24, 1618, to February 7, 1619, and
are included in his _Golden Remains_. On his return to England in 1619
he withdrew to his fellowship at Eton.

Sir Henry Savile's monumental edition of the Greek text of St.
Chrysostom, in eight large folio volumes, was published at Eton,
1610-12. Savile was an imperious scholar, but when Clarendon says
that Hales 'had borne all the labour' of this great edition, he can
only mean that Hales had given his assistance at all stages of its
production. In Brodrick's _Memorials of Merton College_, p. 70, it is
stated that Hales was voted an allowance for the help he had given.
Savile was appointed Warden of Merton in 1585 and Provost of Eton in
1596, and continued to hold both posts at the same time till his death
in 1622.

Page 171, ll. 8-12. Compare the verse epistle in Suckling's _Fragmenta
Aurea_, which was manifestly addressed to Hales, though his name is
not given (ed. 1648, pp. 34-5):

  Whether these lines do find you out,
  Putting or clearing of a doubt;
   ... know 'tis decreed
  You straight bestride the Colledge Steed ...
  And come to Town; 'tis fit you show
  Your self abroad, that men may know
  (What e're some learned men have guest)
  That Oracles are not yet ceas't ...
  News in one day as much w' have here
  As serves all Windsor for a year.

In Suckling's _Sessions of the Poets_, 'Hales set by himselfe most
gravely did smile'.

ll. 14 ff. Compare the story told by Wood: 'When he was Bursar of his
Coll. and had received bad money, he would lay it aside, and put good
of his own in the room of it to pay to others. Insomuch that sometimes
he has thrown into the River 20 and 30_l_. at a time. All which he
hath stood to, to the loss of himself, rather than others of the
Society should be endamaged.'

l. 19. Reduced to penury by the Civil Wars, Hales was 'forced to sell
the best part of his most admirable Library (which cost him 2500_l_.)
to Cornelius Bee of London, Bookseller, for 700_l_. only'. But Wood
also says that he might be styled 'a walking Library'. Another account
of his penury and the sale of his library is found in John Walker's
_Sufferings of the Clergy_, 1714, Part II, p. 94.

l. 24. _syded_, i.e. stood by the side of, equalled, rivalled.

Page 173, ll. 1 ff. His _Tract concerning Schisme and Schismaticks_
was published in 1642, and was frequently reissued. It was written
apparently about 1636, and certainly before 1639. He was installed as
canon of Windsor on June 27, 1639.


52.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 58-9; _Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 28-30.

Clarendon clearly enjoyed writing this character of Chillingworth. The
shrewd observation is tempered by subdued humour. Looking back on his
friendship at a distance of twenty years, he felt an amused pleasure
in the disputatiousness which could be irritating, the intellectual
vanity, the irresolution that came from too great subtlety.
Chillingworth was always 'his own convert'; 'his only unhappiness
proceeded from his sleeping too little and thinking too much'. But
Clarendon knew the solid merits of _The Religion of Protestants_
(_History_, vol. i, p. 95); and he felt bitterly the cruel
circumstances of his death.

Page 174, ll. 17-19. Compare the character of Godolphin, p. 96, ll. 1
ff.

Page 176, l. 14. _the Adversary_, Edward Knott (1582-1656), Jesuit
controversialist.

l. 29. _Lugar_, John Lewgar (1602-1665): see Wood's _Athenæ
Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, vol. iii, cols. 696-7.

Page 177, l. 24. This Engine is described in the narrative of the
siege of Gloucester in Rushworth's _Historical Collections_, ed. 1692,
Part III, vol. ii, p. 290: 'The King's Forces, by the Directions of
Dr. _Chillingworth_, had provided certain Engines, after the manner of
the Roman _Testudines cum Pluteis_, wherewith they intended to Assault
the City between the South and West Gates; They ran upon Cart-Wheels,
with a _Blind_ of Planks Musquet-proof, and holes for four Musqueteers
to play out of, placed upon the Axle-tree to defend the Musqueteers
and those that thrust it forwards, and carrying a Bridge before it;
the Wheels were to fall into the Ditch, and the end of the Bridge to
rest upon the Towns Breastworks, so making several compleat Bridges to
enter the City. To prevent which, the Besieged intended to have made
another Ditch out of their Works, so that the Wheels falling therein,
the Bridge would have fallen too short of their Breastworks into their
wet Mote, and so frustrated that Design.'

ll. 26 ff. Hopton took Arundel Castle on December 9, 1643, and was
forced to surrender on January 6 (Clarendon, vol. iii, pp. 330-5).
Aubrey says that Chillingworth 'dyed of the _morbus castrensis_ after
the taking of Arundel castle by the parliament: wherin he was very
much blamed by the king's soldiers for his advice in military affaires
there, and they curst _that little priest_ and imputed the losse of
the castle to his advice'. (_Brief Lives_, ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p.
172). The chief actor in the final persecution was Francis Cheynell
(1608-65), afterwards intruded President of St. John's College
and Professor of Divinity in the University of Oxford; see his
_Chillingworthi Novissima. Or, the Sicknesse, Heresy, Death, and
Buriall of William Chillingworth (In his own phrase) Clerk of Oxford,
and in the conceit of his fellow Souldiers, the Queens Arch-Engineer,
and Grand-Intelligencer_, 1644.


53.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 55; _Life_, ed. 1759, pp. 24, 25.

Weakness of character disguised by ready wit, pleasant discourse,
and charm of manner is Clarendon's judgement on Waller. They had
been friends in their early days when Waller was little more than
an opulent poet who could make a good speech in parliament; but his
behaviour on the discovery of 'Waller's plot', the purpose of which
was to hold the city for the king, his inefficiency in any action
but what was directed to his own safety and advancement, and his
subsequent relations with Cromwell, definitely estranged them.
To Clarendon, Waller is the time-server whose pleasing arts are
transparent. 'His company was acceptable, where his spirit was
odious.' The censure was the more severe because of the part which
Waller had just played at Clarendon's fall. The portrait may be
overdrawn; but there is ample evidence from other sources to confirm
its essential truth.

Burnet says that '_Waller_ was the delight of the House: And even at
eighty he said the liveliest things of any among them: He was only
concerned to say that which should make him be applauded. But he never
laid the business of the House to heart, being a vain and empty, tho'
a witty, man' (_History of His Own Time_, ed. 1724, vol. i, p. 388).
He is described by Aubrey, _Brief Lives_, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii, pp.
276-7.

Clarendon's character was included by Johnson in his _Life of Waller_,
with a few comments. Page 179, l. 1. _a very rich wife_, Anne, only
daughter of John Bankes, mercer; married 1631, died 1634. 'The fortune
which Waller inherited from his father, which must have been largely
increased during his long minority, has been variously estimated
at from £2,000 to £3,500 a year; adding to this the amount which
he received with Miss Bankes, said to have been about £8,000, and
allowing for the difference in the value of the money, it appears
probable that, with the exception of Rogers, the history of English
literature can show no richer poet' (_Poems of Waller_, ed. Thorn
Drury, vol. i, p. xx).

l. 4. _M'r Crofts_, William Crofts (1611-77), created Baron Crofts of
Saxham in 1658 at Brussels. He was captain of Queen Henrietta Maria's
Guards.

l. 6. _D'r Marly_. See p. 92, l. 21, note.

ll. 10-14. Waller's poems were first published in 1645, when Waller
was abroad. But they had been known in manuscript. They appear to
have first come to the notice of Clarendon when Waller was introduced
to the brilliant society of which Falkland was the centre. If the
introduction took place, as is probable, about 1635, this is the
explanation of Clarendon's 'neere thirty yeeres of age'. But some of
his poems must have been written much earlier. What is presumably
his earliest piece, on the escape of Prince Charles from shipwreck
at Santander on his return from Spain in 1623, was probably written
shortly after the event it describes, though like other of his early
pieces it shows, as Johnson pointed out, traces of revision.

l. 21. _nurced in Parliaments_. He entered Parliament in 1621, at the
age of sixteen, as member for Amersham. See _Poems_, ed. Drury, vol.
i. p. xvii.

Page 180, l. 5. The great instance of his wit is his reply to Charles
II, when asked why his Congratulation 'To the King, upon his Majesty's
happy Return' was inferior to his Panegyric 'Upon the Death of the
Lord Protector'--'Poets, Sir, succeed better in fiction than in truth'
(quoted from _Menagiana_ in Fenton's 'Observations on Waller's Poems',
and given by Johnson). See _Lives of the Poets_, ed. G.B. Hill, vol.
i, p. 271.


54.

Brief View and Survey of the Dangerous and pernicious Errors to Church
and State, In Mr. Hobbes's Book, Entitled Leviathan. By Edward Earl of
Clarendon. Oxford, 1676. (pp. 2-3.)

It is a misfortune that Clarendon did not write a character of Hobbes,
and, more than this, that there is no character of Hobbes by any one
which corresponds in kind to the other characters in this collection.
But in answering the _Leviathan_, Clarendon thought it well to state
by way of introduction that he was on friendly terms with the author,
and the passage here quoted from his account of their relations is in
effect a character. He condemned Hobbes's political theories; 'Yet I
do hope', he says, 'nothing hath fallen from my Pen, which implies the
least undervaluing of Mr. _Hobbes_ his Person, or his Parts.'

Page 181, l. 21. _ha's_, a common spelling at this time and earlier,
on the false assumption that _has_ was a contraction of _haves_.


55.

Bodleian Library, MS. Aubrey 9, foll. 34-7, 41, 42, 46-7.

The text of these notes on Hobbes is taken direct from Aubrey's
manuscript, now in the Bodleian Library. The complete life is printed
in _Brief Lives by John Aubrey_, edited by Andrew Clark, 1898, vol. i,
pp. 321-403.

Aubrey collected most of his biographical notes, to which he gave the
title '[Greek: Schediasmata.] Brief Lives', in order to help Anthony à
Wood in the compilation of his _Athenæ Oxonienses_. 'I have, according
to your desire', he wrote to Wood in 1680, 'putt in writing these
minutes of lives tumultuarily, as they occur'd to my thoughts or as
occasionally I had information of them.... 'Tis a taske that I never
thought to have undertaken till you imposed it upon me.' Independently
of Wood, Aubrey had collected material for a life of Hobbes, in
accordance with a promise he had made to Hobbes himself. All his
manuscript notes were submitted to Wood, who made good use of them.
On their return Aubrey deposited them in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford,
the library of which is now merged in the Bodleian.

The notes were written 'tumultuarily', jotted down hastily, and as
hastily added to, altered, and transposed. They are a first draft for
the fair copy which was never made. The difficulty of giving a true
representation of them in print is increased by Aubrey's habit of
inserting above the line alternatives to words or phrases without
deleting the original words or even indicating his preference. In the
present text the later form has, as a rule, been adopted, the other
being given in a footnote.

'The Life of Mr. Thomas Hobbes, of Malmesburie' is by far the longest
of Aubrey's 'Brief Lives', but it does not differ from the others
in manner. The passages selected may be regarded as notes for a
character.

Page 183, ll. 1 ff. Aubrey is a little more precise in his notes
on Bacon. 'Mr. Thomas Hobbes told me ... that he was employed in
translating part of the Essayes, viz. three of them, one whereof was
that of the Greatnesse of Cities, the other two I have now forgott'
(ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p. 83). On the evidence of style, Aldis Wright
thought that the other two essays translated by Hobbes were 'Of
Simulation and Dissimulation' and 'Of Innovation': see the preface to
his edition of _Bacon's Essays_, 1862, pp. xix, xx. The translation
appeared in 1638 under the title _Sermones fideles, sive interiora
rerum_.

l. 4. Gorhambury was Bacon's residence in Hertfordshire, near St.
Alban's, inherited from his father. Aubrey described it in a long
digression 'for the sake of the lovers of antiquity', ed. Clark, vol.
i, pp. 79-84, and p. 19.

l. 5. Thomas Bushell (1594-1674), afterwards distinguished as a mining
engineer and metallurgist: see his life in the _Dictionary of National
Biography_.

Page 185, l. 2. (_i._) or _i._, a common form at this time for _i.e._

l. 20. Henry Lawes (1596-1662), who wrote the music for _Comus_, and
to whom Milton addressed one of his sonnets:

  _Harry_ whose tuneful and well measur'd Song
  First taught our English Musick how to span
  Words with just note and accent,...
  To after age thou shalt be writ the man,
  That with smooth aire couldst humor best our tongue.

This sonnet was prefixed to Lawes's _Choice Psalmes_ in 1648; his
_Ayres and Dialogues for One, Two, and Three Voices_ appeared in three
books from 1653 to 1658.


56.

The Life of That Reverend Divine, and Learned Historian, Dr. Thomas
Fuller. London, 1661. (pp. 66-77.)

This work was twice reissued with new title-pages at Oxford in 1662,
and was for the first time reprinted in 1845 by way of introduction to
J.S. Brewer's edition of Fuller's _Church History_. It is the basis of
all subsequent lives of Fuller. But the author is unknown.

The passage here quoted from the concluding section of this _Life_ is
the only contemporary sketch of Fuller's person and character that is
now known. Aubrey's description is a mere note, and is considerably
later: 'He was of a middle stature; strong sett; curled haire; a very
working head, in so much that, walking and meditating before dinner,
he would eate-up a penny loafe, not knowing that he did it. His
naturall memorie was very great, to which he had added the _art of
memorie_: he would repeate to you forwards and backwards all the
signes from Ludgate to Charing-crosse' (ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p. 257).

Page 187, l. 20. _a perfect walking Library_, Compare p. 171, l. 19,
note.

Page 191, ll. 3 ff. Compare Aubrey. But Fuller disclaimed the use of
an art of memory. 'Artificiall memory', he said, 'is rather a trick
then an art.' He condemned the 'artificiall rules which at this day
are delivered by Memory-mountebanks'. His great rule was 'Marshall thy
notions into a handsome method'. See his section 'Of Memory' in his
_Holy State_, 1642, Bk. III, ch. 10; and compare J.E. Bailey, _Life of
Thomas Fuller_, 1874, pp. 413-15.


57.

Bodleian Library, MS. Aubrey 8 foll. 63, 63 v, 68.

The text is taken direct from Aubrey's manuscript, such contractions
as 'X'ts coll:' and 'da:' for daughter being expanded. For the
complete life, see _Brief Lives_, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii, pp. 62-72.

There is no character of Milton. We have again to be content with
notes for a character.

Page 192, l. 7. Christ's College, Cambridge, which Milton entered in
February 1625, aged sixteen.

ll. 15-18. Milton had three daughters, by his first wife--Anne, Mary,
and Deborah. Mary died unmarried. Deborah's husband, Abraham Clarke,
left Dublin for London during the troubles in Ireland under James II:
see Masson's _Life of Milton_, vol. vi, p. 751. He is described by
Johnson as a 'weaver in Spitalfields': see _Lives of the Poets_, ed.
G.B. Hill, vol. i, pp. 158-60.

Page 193, ll. 2-4. _Litera Canina_. See Persius, _Sat_. i. 109
'Sonat hic de nare canina littera'; and compare Ben Jonson, _English
Grammar_, '_R_ Is the _Dogs_ Letter, and hurreth in the sound.'

ll. 11, 12. But the Comte de Cominges, French Ambassador to England,
1662-5, in his report to Louis XIV on the state of literature in
England, spoke of 'un nommé Miltonius qui s'est rendu plus infâme par
ses dangereux écrits que les bourreaux et les assassins de leur roi'.
This was written in 1663, and Cominges knew only Milton's Latin works.
See J.J. Jusserand, _A French Ambassador at the Court of Charles the
Second_, 1892, p. 58, and _Shakespeare en France_, 1898, p. 107.

l. 19. _In toto nusquam_. Ovid, _Amores_, i. 5. 18.

Page 194, l. 4. Milton died November 8: see Masson, _Life of Milton_,
vol. vi, p. 731.


58.

Letters of State, Written by Mr. John Milton, To most of the Sovereign
Princes and Republicks of Europe. From the Year 1649 Till the Year
1659. To which is added, An Account of his Life.... London: Printed in
the Year, 1694. (p. xxxvi.)

'The Life of Mr. John Milton' (pp. i-xliv) serves as introduction to
this little volume of State Papers. It is the first life of Milton.
Edward Phillips (1630-96) was the son of Milton's sister, and was
educated by him. Unfortunately he failed to take proper advantage of
his great opportunity. The Life is valuable for some of its details,
but as a whole it is disappointing; and it makes no attempt at
characterization. The note on Milton in his _Theatrum Poetarum, or a
Compleat Collection of the Poets_, 1675, is also disappointing.


59.

Explanatory Notes and Remarks on Milton's Paradise Lost. By J.
Richardson, Father and Son. With the Life of the Author, and a
Discourse on the Poem. By J.R. Sen. London: M.DCC.XXXIV. (pp. iii-v;
xciv; c; cxiv.)

Jonathan Richardson (1665-1745) was one of the chief portrait-painters
of his time. There are portraits by him of Pope, Steele, and
Prior--all now in the National Portrait Gallery; and his writings on
painting were standard works till the time of Reynolds. His book on
Milton was an excursion late in life, with the assistance of his son,
into another field of criticism. His introductory life of Milton
(pp. i-cxliii) is a substantial piece of work, and is valuable as
containing several anecdotes that might otherwise have been lost.
Those that bear on Milton's character are here reproduced. The
typographical eccentricities have been preserved.

Page 194, ll. 28 ff. Edward Millington's place of business was 'at the
Pelican in Duck Lane' in 1670; from Michaelmas, 1671, it was 'at the
Bible in Little Britain' (see Arber's _Term Catalogues_, vol. i, pp.
31, 93). It was about 1680 that he turned auctioneer of books, though
he did not wholly abandon publishing. 'There was usually as much
Comedy in his "Once, Twice, Thrice", as can be met with in a modern
Play.' See the _Life and Errors of John Dunton_, ed. 1818, pp. 235-6.
He died at Cambridge in 1703.

Page 196, l. 4. Dr. Tancred Robinson (d. 1748), physician to George I,
and knighted by him.

l. 10. Henry Bendish (d. 1740), son of Bridget Ireton or Bendish,
Cromwell's granddaughter: see _Letters of John Hughes_, ed. John
Duncombe, vol. ii (1773), pp. x, xlii.

l. 14. John Thurloe (1616-68), Secretary of State under Cromwell.
Compare No. 38 note.

l. 25. 'Easy my unpremeditated verse', _Paradise Lost_, ix. 24.


60.

The Works of M'r Abraham Cowley. Consisting of Those which were
formerly Printed: and Those which he Design'd for the Press, Now
Published out of the Authors Original Copies. London, 1668.--'Several
Discourses by way of Essays, in Verse and Prose,' No. II. (pp. 143-6.)

Cowley's Essays were written towards the close of his life. They were
'left scarce finish'd', and many others were to have been added to
them. They were first published posthumously in the collected edition
of 1668, under the superintendence of Thomas Sprat (see No. 61).
This edition, which alone is authoritative, has been followed in the
present reprint of the eleventh and last Essay, probably written at
the beginning of 1667.

Page 198, l. 1. _at School_, Westminster.

ll. 19 ff. The concluding stanzas of 'A Vote', printed in Cowley's
_Sylva_, 1636. Cowley was then aged eighteen. The first stanza
contains three new readings, 'The unknown' for 'Th' ignote', 'I would
have' for 'I would hug', and 'Not on' for 'Not from'.

Page 199, l. 15. _out of Horace_, _Odes_, iii. 29. 41-5.

Page 200, l. 4. _immediately_. The reading in the text of 1668 is
'irremediably', but 'immediately' is given as the correct reading in
the 'Errata' (printed on a slip that is pasted in at the conclusion of
Cowley's first preface). The edition of 1669 substitutes 'immediately'
in the text. The alteration must be accepted on Sprat's authority, but
it is questionable if it gives a better sense.

ll. 6-10. Cowley was admitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, as a
Westminster scholar on June 14, 1637. He was admitted Minor Fellow
in 1640, and graduated M.A. in 1643. He was ejected in the following
year as a result of the Earl of Manchester's commission to enforce the
solemn League and Covenant in Cambridge. See _Cowley's Pure Works_,
ed. J.R. Lumby, pp. ix-xiii, and Johnson's _Lives of the Poets_, ed.
G.B. Hill, vol. i, p. 5.

ll. 9, 10. _Cedars ... Hyssop_. I Kings, iv. 33.

l. 12. _one of the best Persons_, Henry Jermyn, created Baron Jermyn,
1643, and Earl of St. Albans, 1660, chief officer of Henrietta Maria's
household in Paris: see Clarendon, vol. iv, p. 312. As secretary
to Jermyn, Cowley 'cyphcr'd and decypher'd with his own hand, the
greatest part of all the Letters that passed between their Majesties,
and managed a vast Intelligence in many other parts: which for some
years together took up all his days, and two or three nights every
week' (Sprat). He told Sprat that he intended to dedicate all his
Essays to St. Albans 'as a testimony of his entire respects to him'.

Page 201, l. 10. _Well then_. The opening lines of 'The Wish',
included in _The Mistress_, 1647 (ed. 1668, pp. 22-3).

ll. 14 ff. At the instance of Jermyn, Cowley had been promised by both
Charles I and Charles II the mastership of the Savoy Hospital, but the
post was given in 1660 to Sheldon, and in 1663, on Sheldon's promotion
to the Archbishopric of Canterbury, to Henry Killigrew: see W.J.
Loftie, _Memorials of the Savoy_, 1878, pp. 145 ff., and Wood, _Fasti
Oxonienses_, ed. Bliss, part I, col. 494. In the _Calendar of State
Papers_, Domestic Series, 1661-2, p. 210, there is the statement of
the case of Abraham Cowley, 'showing that the place may be held by a
person not a divine, and that Cowley ... having seen all preferments
given away, and his old University companions advanced before him, is
put to great shame by missing this place'. He is called 'Savoy missing
Cowley' in the Restoration _Session of the Poets_, printed in _Poems
on State Affairs_.

l. 21. _Thou, neither_. In the ode entitled 'Destinie', _Pindarique
Odes_, 1656 (ed. 1668, p. 31, 'That neglected').

l. 28. _A Corps perdu_, misprinted _A Corps perdi_, edd. 1668, 1669,
_A Corpus perdi_, 1672, 1674, &c.; _Perdue_, Errata, 1668.

Page 202, l. 1. St. Luke, xii. 16-21.

ll. 3-5. 'Out of hast to be gone away from the Tumult and Noyse of the
City, he had not prepar'd so healthful a situation in the Country, as
he might have done, if he had made a more leasurable choice. Of this
he soon began to find the inconvenience at _Barn Elms_, where he was
afflicted with a dangerous and lingring _Fever_.... Shortly after his
removal to _Chertsea_ [April 1665], he fell into another consuming
Disease. Having languish'd under this for some months, he seem'd to
be pretty well cur'd of its ill Symptomes. But in the heat of the last
Summer [1667], by staying too long amongst his Laborers in the Medows,
he was taken with a violent Defluxion, and Stoppage in his Breast, and
Throat. This he at first neglected as an ordinary Cold, and refus'd
to send for his usual Physicians, till it was past all remedies; and
so in the end after a fortnight sickness, it prov'd mortal to him'
(Sprat). In the Latin life prefixed to Cowley's _Poemata Latina_,
1668, Sprat is more specific: 'Initio superioris Anni, inciderat in
_Morbum_, quem Medici _Diabeten_ appellant.'

l. 6. _Non ego_. Horace, _Odes_, ii. 17. 9, 10.

ll. 11 ff. _Nec vos_. These late Latin verses may be Cowley's own, but
they are not in his collected Latin poems. Compare Virgil, _Georgics_,
ii. 485-6. 'Syluæq;' = 'Sylvæque': 'q;' was a regular contraction for
_que_: cf. p. 44, l. 6.


61.

The Works of Mr. Abraham Cowley, 1668.--'An Account of the Life and
Writings of M'r Abraham Cowley'. (pp. [18]-[20].)

Thomas Sprat (1635-1713), author of _The History of the
Royal-Society_, 1667, afterwards Bishop of Rochester, 1684, was
entrusted by Cowley's will with 'the revising of all his Works that
were formerly printed, and the collecting of those Papers which he had
design'd for the Press'; and as literary executor he brought out in
1668 a folio edition of the English works, and an octavo edition of
the Latin works. To both he prefixed a life, one in English and the
other in Latin. The more elaborate English life was written partly in
the hope that 'a Character of Mr. _Cowley_ may be of good advantage to
our Nation'. Unfortunately the ethical bias has injured the biography.
In Johnson's words, 'his zeal of friendship, or ambition of eloquence,
has produced a funeral oration rather than a history: he has given the
character, not the life of Cowley; for he writes with so little detail
that scarcely any thing is distinctly known, but all is shewn confused
and enlarged through the mist of panegyrick.' Similarly Coleridge asks
'What literary man has not regretted the prudery of Sprat in refusing
to let his friend Cowley appear in his slippers and dressing-gown?'
(_Biographia Literaria_, ch. iii). His method is the more to be
regretted as no one knew Cowley better in his later years. His
greatest error of judgement was to suppress his large collection
of Cowley's letters. But with all its faults Sprat's Life of Cowley
occupies an important place at the beginning of English biography of
men of letters. It is the earliest substantial life of a poet whose
reputation rested on his poetry. Fulke Greville's life of Sir Philip
Sidney was the life of a soldier and a statesman of promise; and to
Izaak Walton, Donne was not so much a poet as a great Churchman.

In the edition of 1668 the life of Cowley runs to twenty-four folio
pages. The passage here selected deals directly with his character.

Page 203, ll. 25-7. It is evidently the impression of a stranger at
first sight that Aubrey gives in his short note: 'A.C. discoursed very
ill and with hesitation' (ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p. 190).


62.

A Character of King Charles the Second: And Political, Moral and
Miscellaneous Thoughts and Reflections. By George Savile, Marquis of
Halifax. London: MDCCL.

Halifax's elaborate and searching account of Charles II was first
published in 1750 'from his original Manuscripts, in the Possession
of his Grand-daughter Dorothy Countess of Burlington'. It consists
of seven parts: I. Of his Religion; II. His Dissimulation; III. His
Amours, Mistresses, &c.; IV. His Conduct to his Ministers; V. Of
his Wit and Conversation; VI. His Talents, Temper, Habits, &c.; VII.
Conclusion. Only the second, fifth, and sixth are given here. The
complete text is reprinted in Sir Walter Raleigh's _Works of Halifax_,
1912, pp. 187-208.

For other characters of Charles, in addition to the two by Burnet
which follow, see Evelyn's _Diary_, February 4, 1685; Dryden's
dedication of _King Arthur_, 1691; 'A Short Character of King Charles
the II' by John Sheffield, Earl of Mulgrave, Duke of Buckingham,
'Printed from the Original Copy' in _Miscellaneous Works Written by
George, late Duke of Buckingham_, ed. Tho. Brown, vol. ii, 1705, pp.
153-60, and with Pope's emendations in _Works_, 1723, vol. ii, pp.
57-65; and James Welwood's _Memoirs Of the Most Material Transactions
in England, for the Last Hundred Years, Preceding the Revolution_,
1700, pp. 148-53.

For Halifax himself, see No. 72.

Page 208, l. 12. An allusion to the Quarrel of the Ancients and
Moderns, which assumed prominence in England with the publication
in 1690 of Sir William Temple's _Essay upon the Ancient and Modern
Learning_. Compare Burnet, p. 223, l. 11 and note.

PAGE 209, l. 29. _Ruelle_. Under Louis XIV it was the custom for
ladies of fashion to receive morning visitors in their bedrooms; hence
_ruelle_, the passage by the side of a bed, came to mean a ladies'
chamber. Compare _The Spectator_, Nos. 45 and 530.

Page 211, l. 2. _Tiendro cuydado_, evidently an imperfect recollection
of the phrase _se tendrá cuydado_, 'care will be taken', 'the matter
will have attention': compare _Cortes de Madrid_, 1573, Peticion
96,... 'se tendrá cuidado de proueher en ello lo que conuiniere'.

Page 212, ll. 7, 8. Compare Pepys's _Diary_, May 4, 1663: 'meeting the
King, we followed him into the Park, where Mr. Coventry and he talking
of building a new yacht out of his private purse, he having some
contrivance of his own'. Also, Evelyn's _Diary_, February 4, 1685:
'a lover of the sea, and skilful in shipping; not affecting other
studies, yet he had a laboratory and knew of many empirical medicines,
and the easier mechanical mathematics.' Also, Buckingham, ed. 1705,
p. 155: 'the great and almost only pleasure of Mind he seem'd addicted
to, was _Shipping_ and _Sea-Affairs_; which seem'd to be so much his
Talent for _Knowledge_, as well as _Inclination_, that a War of that
Kind, was rather an _Entertainment_, than any _Disturbance_ to his
Thoughts.' Also Welwood, _Memoirs_, p. 151. Also, Burnet, _infra_, p.
219.

Page 213, l. 10. According to Pepys (_Diary_, December 8, 1666),
the distinction between Charles Stuart and the King was drawn by Tom
Killigrew in his remonstrance to Charles on the very ill state that
matters were coming to: 'There is a good, honest, able man, that I
could name, that if your Majesty would employ, and command to see all
things well executed, all things would soon be mended; and this is one
Charles Stuart, who now spends his time in employing his lips about
the Court, and hath no other employment; but if you would give him
this employment, he were the fittest man in the world to perform it.'

Page 217, ll. 11 ff. Compare Welwood's _Memoirs_, p. 149.


63.

Bishop Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. From the Restoration
of King Charles II. to the Settlement of King William and Queen Mary
at the Revolution. London: 1724. (pp. 93-4.)

Burnet began his _History of His Own Time_ in 1683, after the
publication of his _History of the Reformation_. In its original form
it partook largely of the nature of Memoirs. But on the appearance
of Clarendon's History in 1702 he was prompted to recast his entire
narrative on a method that confined the strictly autobiographical
matter to a section by itself and as a whole assured greater dignity.
The part dealing with the reign of Charles II was rewritten by August
1703. The work was brought down to 1713 and completed in that year.
Two years later Burnet died, leaving instructions that it was not to
be printed till six years after his death.

The _History_ was published in two folio volumes, dated 1724 and 1734.
The first, which contains the reigns of Charles II and James II, came
out at the end of 1723 and was edited by Burnet's second son, Gilbert
Burnet, then rector of East Barnet. The second volume was edited
by his third son, Thomas Burnet, afterwards a Judge of the Court
of Common Pleas. The complete autograph of the History, and the
transcript which was prepared for the press under the author's
directions, are now both in the Bodleian Library.

The original form of the work survives in two transcripts (one of them
with Burnet's autograph corrections) in the Harleian collection in
the British Museum, and in a fragment of Burnet's original manuscript
in the Bodleian. The portions of this original version that differ
materially from the final printed version were published in 1902 by
Miss H.C. Foxcroft under the title _A Supplement to Burnet's History_.

Much of the interest of the earlier version lies in the characters,
which are generally longer than they became on revision, and
sometimes contain details that were suppressed. But in a volume of
representative selections, where the art of a writer is as much our
concern as his matter, the preference must be given to what Burnet
himself intended to be final. The extracts are reprinted from the two
volumes edited by his sons. There was not the same reason to go direct
to his manuscript as to Clarendon's: see notes p. 231, l. 26; p. 252,
l. 10; and p. 255, l. 6.


64.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 611-3.)

Burnet's two characters of Charles II are in striking agreement with
the more elaborate study by Halifax.

Page 221, ll. 1 ff. Compare Halifax, p. 216, ll. 10 ff.

l. 14. _his Chancellor_, Clarendon.

Page 222, l. 16. _he became cruel_. This statement was attacked by
Roger North, _Lives of the Norths_, ed. 1890, vol. i, p. 330: 'whereas
some of our barbarous writers call this awaking of the king's genius
to a sedulity in his affairs, a growing cruel, because some suffered
for notorious treasons, I must interpret their meaning; which is a
distaste, because his majesty was not pleased to be undone as his
father was; and accordingly, since they failed to wound his person and
authority, they fell to wounding his honour.' Buckingham says, 'He was
an Illustrious Exception to all the Common Rules of _Phisiognomy_; for
with a most _Saturnine_ harsh sort of Countenance, he was both of a
_Merry_ and a _Merciful_ Disposition' (ed. 1705, p. 159); with which
compare Welwood, ed. 1700, p. 149. The judicial verdict had already
been pronounced by Halifax: see p. 216, ll. 23 ff.

ll. 21-3. See Burnet, ed. Osmund Airy, vol. i, p. 539, for the
particular reference. The scandal was widespread, but groundless.

Page 223, l. 9. _the war of Paris_, the Fronde. See Clarendon, vol. v,
pp. 243-5.

ll. 11 ff. Compare Buckingham, ed. 1705, p. 157: 'Witty in all
sorts of Conversation; and telling a Story so well, that, not out of
Flattery, but the Pleasure of hearing it, we seem'd Ignorant of what
he had repeated to us Ten Times before; as a good _Comedy_ will bear
the being often seen.' Also Halifax, p. 208, ll. 7-14.

l. 17. John Wilmot (1647-80), second Earl of Rochester, son of Henry
Wilmot, first Earl (No. 32). Burnet knew him well and wrote his life,
_Some Passages of the Life and Death Of the Right Honourable John Earl
of Rochester_, 1680; 'which', says Johnson, 'the critick ought to read
for its elegance, the philosopher for its arguments, and the saint for
its piety' (_Lives of the Poets_, ed. G.B. Hill, vol. i, p. 222).

ll. 25 ff. The resemblance to Tiberius was first pointed out in print
in Welwood's _Memoirs_, p. 152, which appeared twenty-four years
before Burnet's _History_. But Welwood was indebted to Burnet. He
writes as if they had talked about it; or he might have seen Burnet's
early manuscript.


65.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 94-5.)

The author of most of the characters in this volume himself deserves a
fuller character. The main portions of Burnet's original sketch (1683)
are therefore given here, partly by way of supplement, and partly to
illustrate the nature of Burnet's revision (1703):

'The great man with the king was chancellor Hyde, afterwards made Earl
of Clarendon. He had been in the beginning of the long parliament very
high against the judges upon the account of the ship-money and became
then a considerable man; he spake well, his style had no flaw in it,
but had a just mixture of wit and sense, only he spoke too copiously;
he had a great pleasantness in his spirit, which carried him sometimes
too far into raillery, in which he sometimes shewed more wit than
discretion. He went over to the court party when the war was like to
break out, and was much in the late king's councils and confidence
during the war, though he was always of the party that pressed the
king to treat, and so was not in good terms with the queen. The late
king recommended him to this king as the person on whose advices he
wished him to rely most, and he was about the king all the while that
he was beyond sea, except a little that he was ambassador in Spain; he
managed all the king's correspondences in England, both in the little
designs that the cavaliers were sometimes engaged in, and chiefly in
procuring money for the king's subsistence, in which Dr. Sheldon was
very active; he had nothing so much before his eyes as the king's
service and doated on him beyond expression: he had been a sort of
governor to him and had given him many lectures on the politics
and was thought to assume and dictate too much ... But to pursue
Clarendon's character: he was a man that knew England well, and was
lawyer good enough to be an able chancellor, and was certainly a very
incorrupt man. In all the king's foreign negotiations he meddled too
much, for I have been told that he had not a right notion of foreign
matters, but he could not be gained to serve the interests of other
princes. Mr. Fouquet sent him over a present of 10,000 pounds after
the king's restoration and assured him he would renew that every
year, but though both the king and the duke advised him to take it he
very worthily refused it. He took too much upon him and meddled in
everything, which was his greatest error. He fell under the hatred
of most of the cavaliers upon two accounts. The one was the act of
indemnity which cut off all their hopes of repairing themselves of
the estates of those that had been in the rebellion, but he said it
was the offer of the indemnity that brought in the king and it was
the observing of it that must keep him in, so he would never let that
be touched, and many that had been deeply engaged in the late times
having expiated it by their zeal of bringing home the king were
promoted by his means, such as Manchester, Anglesey, Orrery, Ashley,
Holles, and several others. The other thing was that, there being an
infinite number of pretenders to employments and rewards for their
services and sufferings, so that the king could only satisfy some few
of them, he upon that, to stand between the king and the displeasure
which those disappointments had given, spoke slightly of many of them
and took it upon him that their petitions were not granted; and some
of them having procured several warrants from the secretaries for the
same thing (the secretaries considering nothing but their fees), he
who knew on whom the king intended that the grant should fall, took
all upon him, so that those who were disappointed laid the blame
chiefly if not wholly upon him. He was apt to talk very imperiously
and unmercifully, so that his manner of dealing with people was as
provoking as the hard things themselves were; but upon the whole
matter he was a true Englishman and a sincere protestant, and what
has passed at court since his disgrace has sufficiently vindicated him
from all ill designs' (_Supplement_, ed. Foxcroft, pp. 53-6).

There is a short character of Clarendon in Warwick's _Mémoires_, pp.
196-8; compare also Pepys's _Diary_, October 13, 1666, and Evelyn's
_Diary_, August 27, 1667, and September 18, 1683.


66.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 638-9; _Continuation of the Life of Edward
Earl of Clarendon_, ed. 1759, pp. 51-2.

Page 226, l. 8. He was released from Windsor Castle in March 1660.
Compare Burnet's character, p. 228, ll. 2-4.

l. 19. _the Chancellour_, i.e. Clarendon himself.

Page 227, ll. 5 ff. John Middleton (1619-74), created Earl of
Middleton, 1656. He was taken prisoner at Worcester, but escaped to
France. As Lord High Commissioner for Scotland and Commander-in-chief,
he was mainly responsible for the unfortunate methods of forcing
episcopacy on Scotland.

William Cunningham (1610-64), ninth Earl of Glencairn, Lord Chancellor
of Scotland.

John Leslie (1630-81), seventh Earl and first Duke of Rothes,
President of the Council in Scotland; Lord Chancellor, 1667.

On the composition of the ministry in Scotland, compare Burnet, ed.
Osmund Airy, vol. i, pp. 199, ff.


67.

