"The wager we made, O my friend, who should have been the son of my
mother, is not yet decided, and as it is not given a mortal to know the
will of the Most Compassionate until he is pleased to expose it, I
cannot say what the end will be. Yet I love you, and have faith in you;
and wishing you to be so assured whether I win or lose, I send Mustapha
to your country in advance with proofs of your heirship, and to notify
the noble lady, your mother, that you are alive, and about returning to
her. Also, forasmuch as a Turk destroyed it, he is ordered to rebuild
your father's castle, and add to the estate all the adjacent lands he
can buy; for verily no Countship can be too rich for the Mirza who was
my brother. And these things he will do in your name, not mine. And when
it is done, if to your satisfaction, O Count, give him a statement that
he may come to me with evidence of his mission discharged.

"I commend you to the favor of the Compassionate.
MAHOMMED."

When the missive was read, Mustapha knelt to the Count, and saluted him.
Then he conducted him into the chapel of the castle, and going to the
altar, showed him an iron door, and said:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, instructed me to deposit here certain
treasure with which he graciously intrusted me. Receive the key, I pray,
and search the vault, and view the contents, and, if it please you, give
me a certificate which will enable me to go back to my country, and live
there a faithful servant of my master, the Lord Mahommed--may he be
exalted as the Faithful are!"

Now when the Count came to inspect the contents of the vault he was
displeased; and seeing it, Mustapha proceeded:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, anticipated that you might protest
against receiving the treasure; if so, I was to tell you it was to make
good in some measure the sums the noble lady your mother has paid in
searching for you, and in masses said for the repose of your father's
soul."

Corti could not do else than accept.

Finally, to complete the narrative, he never married. The reasonable
inference is, he never met a woman with graces sufficient to drive the
Princess Irene from his memory.

After the death of the Countess, his mother, he went up to Rome, and
crowned a long service as chief of the Papal Guard by dying of a wound
received in a moment of victory. Hadifah, the Berbers, and Nilo chose to
stay with him throughout. The Tripolitans were returned to their
country; after which the galley was presented to the Holy Father.

Once every year there came to the Count a special messenger from
Constantinople with souvenirs; sometimes a sword royally enriched,
sometimes a suit of rare armor, sometimes horses of El Hajez--these were
from Mahommed. Sometimes the gifts were precious relics, or illuminated
Scriptures, or rosaries, or crosses, or triptychs wonderfully executed--
so Irene the Sultana chose to remind him of her gratitude.

Syama wandered around Constantinople a few days after the fall of the
city, looking for his master, whom he refused to believe dead. Lael
offered him asylum for life. Suddenly he disappeared, and was never seen
or heard of more. It may be presumed, we think, that the Prince of India
succeeded in convincing him of his identity, and took him to other parts
of the world--possibly back to Cipango.

THE END.