Here, too, is a maxim to engrave upon the memory: in charging a
superior force, never to leave a difficult tract of ground in the rear
of your attack, since there is all the difference in the world between
a stumble in flight and a stumble in pursuit.

There is another precaution which I feel called upon to note. Some
generals, (12) in attacking a force which they imagine to be inferior
to their own, will advance with a ridiculously insufficient force, (13)
so that it is the merest accident if they do not experience the injury
they were minded to inflict. Conversely, in attacking any enemy whose
superiority is a well-known fact, they will bring the whole of their
force into action.

 (12) Or, "one knows of generals," e.g. Iphicrates at Oneion, 369 B.C.
    Cf. "Hell." VI. v. 51.

 (13) Lit. "an absolutely weak force."

Now, my maxim would be precisely converse: if you attack with a
prospect of superiority, do not grudge employing all the power at your
command; excess of victory (14) never yet caused any conqueror one pang
of remorse.

 (14) Or, "a great and decided victory." Cf. "Hiero," ii. 16.

But in any attempt to attack superior forces, in full certainty that,
do what you can, you must eventually retire, it is far better, say I,
under these circumstances to bring a fraction only of your whole force
into action, which fraction should be the pick and flower of the
troops at your command, both horses and men. A body of that size and
quality will be able to strike a blow and to fall back with greater
security. Whereas, if a general brings all his troops into action
against a superior force, when he wishes to retire, certain things
must happen: those of his men who are worse mounted will be captured,
others through lack of skill in horsemanship will be thrown, and a
third set be cut off owing to mere difficulties of ground; since it is
impossible to find any large tract of country exactly what you would
desire. If for no other reason, through sheer stress of numbers there
will be collisions, and much damage done by kicks through mutual
entanglement; whereas a pick of horse and men will be able to escape
offhand, (15) especially if you have invention to create a scare in the
minds of the pursuers by help of the moiety of troops who are out of
action. (16) For this purpose false ambuscades will be of use.

 (15) Or, "by themselves," reading {ex auton}, as L. Dind. suggests.
    Cf. Polyb. x. 40. 6, or if as vulg. {ex auton}  (sub. {kheiron},
    Weiske), transl. "to slip through their fingers."

 (16) Zeune and other commentators cf Liv. v. 38  (Diod. xiv. 114), but
    the part played by the Roman subsidiarii at the battle of the
    Allia, if indeed "una salus fugientibus," was scarcely happy.
    Would not "Hell." VII. v. 26 be more to the point? The detachment
    of cavalry and infantry placed by Epaminondas "on certain crests,
    to create an apprehension in the minds of the Athenians" in that
    quarter of the field at Mantinea was a {mekhanema} of the kind
    here contemplated.

Another serviceable expedient will be to discover on which side a
friendly force may suddenly appear and without risk to itself put a
drag on the wheels of the pursuer. Nay, it is self-evident, I think,
that, as far as work and speed are concerned, it is the small body
which will assert its superiority more rapidly over the larger, and
not vice versa--not of course that the mere fact of being a small body
will enable them to endure toil or give them wings; but simply it is
easier to find five men than five hundred, who will take the requisite
care and pains with their horses, and personally practise of their own
accord the art of horsemanship.

