At the present writin', many furrin' nations would give all their old
butes and shoes if, like us, they could throw their roolers overboard
every 4 years, and have a new deel.

Our institutions are, many of 'em, sound: altho' I've diskivered to my
sorrer, that some of the inhabitants of New York are about as
puselanermus a set of dead-beats which ever stood up.

While sojernin' here, my distinguished looks kicked up quite a sensation
wherever I put in an appearance. On one occasion, a man stepped up to me
who thought I was a banker, and richer than Creosote, and wanted me to
change a $100 bill. I diden't do it. Not much. No, sir-ee!--they
coulden't fool the old man on that ancient dodge.

But, friend PUNCHINELLO, to my disgust and shagrin', I must acknolidge
the corn, and say, I hain't quite so soon as I allers give myself credit
for bein', as the sekel of this letter will show.

Last Saturday P.M. I was a sailin' down Dye Street with my bloo cotton
umbreller under my arm, feelin' all so fine and so gay.

When near the corner of West Street I turned around just in time to see
a ragged boy pick up a pocket-book.

As the afoursaid boy started to run off, a well dressed lookin' man
ketched him by the cote coller.

"What in thunder are you about?" says the boy.

"That pocket-book belongs to this old gentleman," said the man, pintin'
to me. "I saw him drop it."

"No it don't, nether," said the boy, tryin' to break away, "and I want
yer to let go my cote coller."

The infatuated youth then tried his level best to jerk away, while his
capturer yanked and cuffed him, ontil the boy sot up a cryin'.

I notissed as the youth turned around that he partly opened the wallet,
which was chock full of greenbax.

A thought suddenly struck me. That 'ere boy looked as if he was depraved
enuff to steel the shoe-strings off'n the end of a Chinaman's cue, so
the Monongohalian's hair woulden't stay braided.

Thinks I, if the young raskel should keep that pocket-book, like as not
he mite buy a fashinable soot of close and enter on a new career of
crime, and finally fetch up as a ward polertician.

I must confess, that as I beheld that wallet full of bills, my mouth did
water rather freely, and I made up my mind, if wuss come to wusser, I
would not allow too much _temptashun_ to get in that boy's way. The man
turned to me and says:

"Stranger, this is your pocket-book, for I'le swear I saw you drop it."

What could a poor helpless old man like me do in euch a case, Mister
PUNCHINELLO? That man was willin' to sware that I dropped it, and I
larnt enuff about law, when I was Gustise of the Peece, to know I
coulden't swear I diden't drop it, and any court would decide agin me;
at the same time my hands itched to get holt of the well filled wallet.

I trembled all over for fear a policeman, who was standin' on the
opposite corner, mite come over and stick in his lip.

But no! like the wooden injuns before cigar stores, armed with a
tommyhawk and scalpin' knife, these city petroleums, bein' rather
slippery chaps, hain't half so savage as they look.

When the boy heerd the man say I owned the pocket-book he caved in, and
began to blubber. Said he, whimperin':

"Well--I--want--a--re--ward--for--findin' the--pocket-bo--hoo--ok."

The well dressed individual, still holdin' onto the boy, then said to
me:

"My friend, I'me a merchant, doin' bizziness on Broadway, at 4-11-44.
You've had a narrer escape from losin' your pocket-book. Give this rash
youth $50, to encourage him in bein' honest in the futer, and a glorious
reward awaits you. Look at me, sir!" said he, vehemently; "the turnin'
pint of my life was similar to this depraved youth's; but, sir! a reward
from a good lookin', beneverlent old gent like you, made a man of me,
and to-day I'me President of a Society for the _Penny-Ante_ corruption
of good morrils,' and there hain't a judge in the city who wouldn't give
me a home for the pleasure of my company."

Such a man, I knew, woulden't lie about seein' me drop that pocket-book.
I took another look at the Guardian (?) of the public peace, morrils,
etc., who, when he was on his _Beat_, haden't the least objection to
anybody else bein' on _their beat_. He wasen't lookin' our way, but was
star-gazin', seein' if the sines was rite for him to go and take another
drink.

"You are sure you saw me drop this wallet?" said I, addressin' the
President of the Penny-antee Society.

"I'le take my affidavy on it," said he.

I pulled out $50 and handed it to the boy, who handed me the pocket-book.

"Mrs. GREEN! Mrs. GREEN!" soliloquised I, as I walked away, feelin' as
rich as if I held a good fat goverment offis, "if you could only see
your old man now, methinks you'd feel sorry that you hid all of his
close one mornin' last spring, so he coulden't go and attend a barn
raisin'. Yes, madam, your talented husband has struck ile."

I stepped in a stairway to count my little fortin. I was very much
agitated. The wallet was soon opened; when--

"Ye ministers fallen from grace, defend us!" was the first exclamation
which bust 4th from my lips; for I hope to be flambusticated if I hadn't
gone and paid $50 for a lot of brown paper, rapt up into patent medesin
advertisements, printed like greenbax.

For a few minnits I was crazier than a loon.

I rusht madly into the street, runnin' into an old apple woman, nockin'
her "gally west."

I quickly jumped to my feet and begun hollerin':

"Murder! Thieves! Robbers!"

The Policemen scattered, while a crowd of ragged urchins colected about
me. "My youthful vagabones," roared I, as loud as I could scream, "bring
along your stuffed wallets. The market price of brown paper is $50 an
ounce on call.--If you are lookin' for a greenhorn, I'me your man."

I then broke my umbreller over a lamp-post, and button-hold a passer by,
offerin him a $100 if he'd send me to a loonatic asilum.

Seein' a sine on the opposite corner which read: "Weigher's Office," I
rusht wildly in, and said to a man:

"Captin, I've been _litened_. If you've got such a thing as a pair of
apothecary's scales about your premises, dump me on and give me the
figgers."

I then tried to jump through a winder, but the man caught me by the cote
tails, and haulin' me back, sot me down into a cheer.

I soon got cooled down, when I told the man how I'de been swindled, and
asked him what I had better do.

"Do?" said he, laffin' as if heed bust. "My advice is, for you to take
the next train for your home, and then charge your loss to the acc't of
seein' the elefant."

It hain't often I git took in, but that time I was swallered,
specturcals, white hat and all, as slick as if I'de been buttered all
over.

I don't intend to let Mrs. GREEN know anything about this little
adventoor, but just as like as not, some day when I hain't thinking she
will worm it out of me, when Mariar will no doubt say:

"Sarved you rite, you old ignoramus; that's what you git for stoppin'
takin' the weekly noosepapers, because they won't print the darned
nonsents you set up to rite, when you orter be to bed and asleep."

Ewers, lite as a fether,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._


       *       *       *       *       *


A Serious Complication.

The English language is a "mighty onsartin" one. Here, now, in a
magazine sketch, we find it stated that one of the characters of the
story was "as rich as CROESUS, and a good fellow to boot." Vernacularly,
this is correct; and yet so equivocal is it that it puzzles one to think
why the acquisition of wealth should subject the holder of it to the
liability of being kicked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enough Said.

"Modern physiologists," said the Doctor, "have arrived at the conclusion
that man begins as a cell."

