The company being come to some place where a boar is thought to lie, the
first step is to bring up the pack, (11) which done, they will loose a
single Laconian bitch, and keeping the rest in leash, beat about with
this one hound. (12) As soon as she has got on the boar's track, let
them follow in order, one after another, close on the tracking hound,
who gives the lead to the whole company. (13) Even to the huntsmen
themselves many a mark of the creature will be plain, such as his
footprints on soft portions of the ground, and in the thick undergrowth
of forests broken twigs; and, where there are single trees, the scars
made by his tusks. (14) As she follows up the trail the hound will, as
a general rule, finally arrive at some well-wooded spot; since, as a
general rule, the boar lies ensconced in places of the sort, that are
warm in winter and cool in summer.

 (11) {kunegesion}, "a hunting establishment, huntsmen and hounds, a
    pack of hounds," L. & S. cf. Herod. i. 36; Pollux. v. 17. In
    Aristot. "H. A." viii. 5. 2, of wolves in a pack; v. {monopeirai}.
    {upagein}--"stealthily?"

 (12) Or, "go on a voyage of discovery."

 (13) Reading {te ikhneuouse}, or if vulg. {ikhneusei}, transl. "set
    her to follow the trail, at the head of the whole train."

 (14) Schneid. cf. Aristot. "H. A." vi. 18; Plin. viii. 52; Virg.
    "Georg." iii. 255, "ipse ruit, dentesque Sabellicus exacuit sus";
    Hom. "Il." xi. 416, xiii. 475; Hes. "Shield," 389; Eur. "Phoen."
    1389; Ovid, "Met." viii. 369.

As soon as she has reached his lair she will give tongue; but the boar
will not get up, not he, in nine cases out of ten. The huntsman will
thereupon recover the hound, and tie her up also with the rest at a good
distance from the lair. (15) He will then launch his toils into the wild
boar's harbourage, (16) placing the nooses upon any forked branches
of wood to hand. Out of the net itself he must construct a deep
forward-jutting gulf or bosom, posting young shoots on this side and
that within, as stays or beams, (17) so that the rays of light may
penetrate as freely as possible through the nooses into the bosom, (18)
and the interior be as fully lit up as possible when the creature makes
his charge. The string round the top of the net must be attached to
some stout tree, and not to any mere shrub or thorn-bush, since these
light-bending branches will give way to strain on open ground. (19)
All about each net it will be well to stop with timber even places (20)
"where harbrough nis to see," so that the hulking brute may drive a
straight course (21) into the toils without tacking.

 (15) Lit. "accordingly recover the dog, and tie her up also with the
    rest," etc.

 (16) {ormous}. Lit. "moorings," i.e. "favourite haunts." Cf. {dusorma}
    below. Al. "stelle die Fallnetze auf die Wechsel," Lenz.

 (17) {anteridas}. See a note in the "Class. Rev." X. i. p. 7, by G. S.
    Sale: "It can only mean long sticks used as stretchers or
    spreaders to hold up the net between and beyond the props." Cf.
    Thuc. vii. 36, 2.

 (18) Or, "within the bay of network."

 (19) {sunekhontai en tois psilois ai e}. "Denn diese werden an
    unbestandenen Orten durch die Leine niedergezogen," Lenz;
    {sunelkontai} conj. Schn.; {sunerkhontai} al., "concurrunt," vid.
    Sturz.

 (20) {ta dusorma}, met. from "bad harbourage." Cf. Arsch. "Pers." 448;
    "Ag." 194. Cf. Lat. "importunus," also of "rough ground."

 (21) Or, "make his rush."

As soon as the nets are fixed, the party will come back and let the
hounds slip one and all; then each will snatch up his javelin (22) and
boar-spear, and advance. Some one man, the most practised hand, will
cheer on the hounds, and the rest will follow in good order at some
considerable distance from one another, so as to leave the animal a free
passage; since if he falls into the thick of them as he makes off, there
is a fair chance of being wounded, for he will certainly vent his fury
on the first creature he falls foul of.

 (22) Lit. "then they will take their javelins and boar-spears and
    advance."

As soon as the hounds are near his lair, they will make their onslaught.
The boar, bewildered by the uproar, will rise up and toss the first
hound that ventures to attack him in front. He will then run and fall
into the toils; or if not, then after him full cry. (23) Even if the
ground on which the toils environ him be sloping, he will recover
himself promptly; (24) but if level, he will at once plant himself firm
as a rock, as if deliberating with himself. (25) At that conjuncture
the hounds will press hard upon him, while their masters had best keep
a narrow eye upon the boar and let fly their javelins and a pelt of
stones, being planted in a ring behind him and a good way off, until the
instant when with a forward heave of his body he stretches the net tight
and strains the skirting-rope. Thereupon he who is most skilful of
the company and of the stoutest nerve will advance from the front and
deliver a home thrust with his hunting-spear.

 (23) Or, "a pretty chase must follow."

 (24) Or, "if within the prison of the net the ground be sloping, it
    will not take long to make him spring up; he will be up again on
    his legs in no time."

 (25) Or, "being concerned about himself."

Should the animal for all that rain of javelins and stones refuse to
stretch the skirting-rope, should he rather relax (26) in that direction
and make a right-about-face turn bearing down on his assailant, there
is nothing for it, under these circumstances, but to seize a boar-spear,
and advance; firmly clutching it with the left hand forward and with
the right behind; the left is to steady it, and the right to give it
impulse; and so the feet, (27) the left advanced in correspondence with
the left arm, and right with right. As he advances, he will make a lunge
forward with the boar-spear, (27) planting his legs apart not much wider
than in wrestling, (28) and keeping his left side turned towards his
left hand; and then, with his eye fixed steadily on the beast's eye, he
will note every turn and movement of the creature's head. As he brings
down the boar-spear to the thrust, he must take good heed the animal
does not knock it out of his hands by a side movement of the head; (29)
for if so he will follow up the impetus of that rude knock. In case
of that misfortune, the huntsman must throw himself upon his face and
clutch tight hold of the brushwood under him, since if the wild boar
should attack him in that posture, owing to the upward curve of its
tusks, it cannot get under him; (30) whereas if caught erect, he must be
wounded. What will happen then is, that the beast will try to raise him
up, and failing that will stand upon and trample him.

 (26) {epanieis}. See Sturz, s.v.

 (27) Lit. "forwards the left foot will follow the left arm and the
    right foot the other."

 (28) "Statum venatoris aprum venabulo excipientis pinxit
    Philostratus," "Imag." i. 28, Schn.

 (29) Or, "he will step forward and take one stride not much longer
    than that of a wrestler, and thrust forward his boar-spear."

 (30) Cf. Hes. "Shield," 387; Hom. "Il." xii. 148: "Then forth rushed
    the twain, and fought in front of the gates like wild boars that
    in the mountains abide the assailing crew of men and dogs, and
    charging on either flank they crush the wood around them, cutting
    it at the root, and the clatter of their tusks waxes loud, till
    one smite them and take their life away" (A. Lang).

From this extremity there is but one means of escape, and one alone,
for the luckless prisoner. One of his fellow-huntsmen must approach with
boar-spear and provoke the boar, making as though he would let fly at
him; but let fly he must not, for fear of hitting the man under him. The
boar, on seeing this, will leave the fallen man, and in rage and fury
turn to grapple his assailant. The other will seize the instant to
spring to his feet, and not forget to clutch his boar-spear as he
rises to his legs again; since rescue cannot be nobly purchased save
by victory. (31) Let him again bring the weapon to bear in the same
fashion, and make a lunge at a point within the shoulder-blade, where
lies the throat; (32) and planting his body firmly press with all his
force. (33) The boar, by dint of his might and battle rage, will still
push on, and were it not that the teeth of the lance-blade hindered,
(34) would push his way up to the holder of the boar-spear even though
the shaft run right through him. (35)

 (31) "Safety can only be won with honour by some master-stroke of
    victory."

 (32) {sphage}. Aristot. "H. A." i. 14. 2. "Straight at the jugular."

 (33) Or, "throwing his whole weight on the thrust, press home with all
    his force."

 (34) Or, "but for the intervention of the two projecting teeth of the
    lance-blade." See the account of the passage of arms between Col.
    Pollock and a boar in his "Incidents of Foreign Sport and Travel."
    There the man was mounted, but alone.

 (35) Lit. "force his heavy bulk along the shaft right up to the holder
    of the boar-spear."

Nay, so tremendous is the animal's power, that a property which no one
ever would suspect belongs to him. Lay a few hairs upon the tusk of
a boar just dead, and they will shrivel up instantly, (36) so hot are
they, these tusks. Nay, while the creature is living, under fierce
excitement they will be all aglow; or else how comes it that though he
fail to gore the dogs, yet at the blow the fine hairs of their coats are
singed in flecks and patches? (37)

 (36) {euthus}, i.e. "for a few seconds after death."

 (37) The belief is still current, I am told, in parts of India.

So much and even greater trouble may be loked for from the wild boar
before capture; I speak of the male animal. If it should be a sow that
falls into the toils, the huntsman should run up and prod her, taking
care not to be pushed off his legs and fall, in which case he cannot
escape being trampled on and bitten. Ergo, he will not voluntarily get
under those feet; but if involuntarily he should come to such a pass,
the same means (38) of helping each the other to get up again will
serve, as in the case of the male animal; and when he has regained his
legs, he must ply the boar-spear vigorously till she too has died the
death.

 (38) {dianastaseis}, "the same methods of mutual recovery."

Wild pigs may be captured further in the following fashion: The nets
are fixed for them at the entrances of woody glens, (39) in coppices and
hollows, and on screes, where there are outlets into rank meadow-lands,
marshes, and clear pools. (40) The appointed person mounts guard at the
nets with his boar-spear, while the others work the dogs, exploring
the best and likeliest spots. As soon as the quarry is found the chase
commences. If then an animal falls into the net, the net-keeper will
grip his boar-spear and (41) advance, when he will ply it as I have
described; if he escape the net, then after him full cry. In hot, sultry
weather the boar may be run down by the hounds and captured. Though a
monster in strength, the creature becomes short of breath and will give
in from sheer exhaustion.

 (39) Al. "at the passages from woodland lakes into oak-coppices."

 (40) {udata}, "waters," lakes, pools, rivers, etc.

 (41) Or, "and proceed to tackle him."

It is a form of sport which costs the lives of many hounds and endangers
those of the huntsmen themselves. Supposing that the animal has given in
from exhaustion at some moment in the chase, and they are forced to come
to close quarters; (42) whether he has taken to the water, or stands at
bay against some craggy bank, or does not choose to come out from some
thicket (since neither net nor anything else hinders him from bearing
down like a tornado on whoever approaches); still, even so, advance they
must, come what come may, to the attack. And now for a display of that
hardihood which first induced them to indulge a passion not fit for
carpet knights (43)--in other words, they must ply their boar-spears and
assume that poise of body (44) already described, since if one must meet
misfortune, let it not be for want of observing the best rules. (45)

 (42) Reading {prosienai}  ({ta probolia}).  (The last two words are
    probably a gloss, and should be omitted, since {prosienai} (from
    {prosiemi}) {ta probolia} = "ply," or "apply their boar-spears,"
    is hardly Greek.) See Schneid. "Add. et Corr." and L. Dind. ad
    loc.

 (43) {ekponein}, "to exercise this passion to the full."

 (44) Lit. "assume their boar-spears and that forward attitude of
    body."

 (45) Lit. "it will not be at any rate from behaving correctly."

Foot-traps are also set for the wild boar, similar to those for deer and
in the same sort of places; the same inspections and methods of pursuit
are needed, with consequent attacks and an appeal to the boar-spear in
the end.

Any attempt to capture the young pigs will cost the huntsman some rough
work. (46) The young are not left alone, as long as they are small; and
when the hounds have hit upon them or they get wind of something wrong,
they will disappear like magic, vanishing into the forest. As a rule,
both parents attend on their own progeny, and are not pleasant then to
meddle with, being more disposed to do battle for their young than for
themselves.

 (46) Lit. "the piglings will resent it (sc. {to aliskesthai})
    strongly"; al. "the adult (sub. {to therion}) will stand anything
    rather."


XI

Lions, leopards, lynxes, panthers, bears and all other such game are to
be captured in foreign countries--about Mount Pangaeus and Cittus beyond
Macedonia; (1) or again, in Nysa beyond Syria, and upon other mountains
suited to the breeding of large game.

 (1) Of these places, Mt. Pangaeus (mod. Pirnari) (see "Hell." V. ii.
    17), Cittus (s. Cissus, mod. Khortiatzi), N. W. of the Chalcidice,
    Mysian Olympus, and Pindus are well known. Nysa has not been
    verified hitherto, I think. Sturz cf. Bochart, "Hieroz." Part I.
    lib. iii. c. 1, p. 722. Strabo, 637 (xv. 1. 7), mentions a Mount
    Nysa in India sacred to Dionysus, and cites Soph. "Frag." 782--

{othen kateidon ton bebakkhiomenen brotoisi kleinon Nusan... k.t.l.},

    but it is a far cry from Xenophon's Syria to India. Possibly it is
    to be sought for in the region of Mt. Amanus.

In the mountains, owing to the difficulty of the ground, (2) some of
these animals are captured by means of poison--the drug aconite--which
the hunters throw down for them, (3) taking care to mix it with the
favourite food of the wild best, near pools and drinking-places or
wherever else they are likely to pay visits. Others of them, as they
descend into the plains at night, may be cut off by parties mounted
upon horseback and well armed, and so captured, but not without causing
considerable danger to their captors. (4)

 (2) Or, "the inaccessibility of their habitats."

 (3) "The method is for the trapper to throw it down mixed with the
    food which the particular creature likes best."

 (4) For the poison method see Pollux, v. 82; Plin. "H. N." viii. 27.

In some cases the custom is to construct large circular pits of some
depth, leaving a single pillar of earth in the centre, on the top of
which at nightfall they set a goat fast-bound, and hedge the pit about
with timber, so as to prevent the wild beasts seeing over, and without a
portal of admission. What happens then is this: the wild beasts, hearing
the bleating in the night, keep scampering round the barrier, and
finding no passage, leap over it, and are caught. (5)

 (5) See "Tales from the Fjeld," Sir George W. Dasent, "Father Bruin in
    the Corner."


XII

With regard to methods of procedure in the hunting-field, enough has
been said. (1) But there are many benefits which the enthusiastic
sportsman may expect to derive from this pursuit. (2) I speak of the
health which will thereby accrue to the physical frame, the quickening
of the eye and ear, the defiance of old age, and last, but not least,
the warlike training which it ensures. To begin with, when some day he
has to tramp along rough ways under arms, the heavy infantry soldier
will not faint or flag--he will stand the toil from being long
accustomed to the same experiences in capturing wild beasts. In the next
place, men so trained will be capable of sleeping on hard couches,
and prove brave guardians of the posts assigned them. In the actual
encounter with the enemy, they will know at once how to attack and to
carry out the word of command as it passes along the lines, because it
was just so in the old hunting days that they captured the wild game. If
posted in the van of battle, they will not desert their ranks, because
endurance is engrained in them. In the rout of the enemy their footsteps
will not falter nor fail: straight as an arrow they will follow the
flying foe, on every kind of ground, through long habituation. (3) Or
if their own army encounter a reverse on wooded and precipitous ground
beset with difficulties, these will be the men to save themselves with
honour and to extricate their friends; since long acquaintance with the
business of the chase has widened their intelligence. (4)

 (1) Or, "Respecting the methods employed in different forms of the
    chase, I have said my say." As to the genuineness of this and the
    following chapter see L. Dind. ad loc.; K. Lincke, "Xenophon's
    Dialog." {peri oikonomias}, p. 132.

 (2) Lit. "this work"; and in reference to the highly Xenophontine
    argument which follows see "Hellenica Essays," p. 342; cf.
    "Cyrop." I. vi. 28, 39-41.

 (3) "For the sake of 'auld lang syne.'"

 (4) Or, "will place them on the vantage-ground of experts."

Nay, even under the worst of circumstances, when a whole mob of
fellow-combatants (5) has been put to flight, how often ere now has
a handful (6) of such men, by virtue of their bodily health (7) and
courage, caught the victorious enemy roaming blindly in some intricacy
of ground, renewed the fight, and routed him. Since so it must ever be;
to those whose souls and bodies are in happy case success is near at
hand. (8)

 (5) Or, "allies."

 (6) Or, "a forlorn hope."

 (7) {euexia}, al. {eutaxia}, "by good discipline."

 (8) "Fortune favours the brave," reading {to eutukhesai} (L. D.); or
    if {tou eutukhesai}, (vulg.) "those whose health of soul and body
    is established are ipso facto nigh unto good fortune."

It was through knowledge that they owed success against their foes to
such a training, that our own forefathers paid so careful a heed to
the young. (9) Though they had but a scant supply of fruits, it was an
immemorial custom "not to hinder (10) the hunter from hunting any of
earth's offspring"; and in addition, "not to hunt by night (11) within
many furlongs of the city," in order that the adepts in that art might
not rob the young lads of their game. They saw plainly that among the
many pleasures to which youth is prone, this one alone is productive of
the greatest blessings. In other words, it tends to make them sound of
soul and upright, being trained in the real world of actual things (12)
(and, as was said before, our ancestors could not but perceive they owed
their success in war to such instrumentality (13)); and the chase alone
deprives them of none of the other fair and noble pursuits that they may
choose to cultivate, as do those other evil pleasures, which ought never
to be learned. Of such stuff are good soldiers and good generals made.
(14) Naturally, those from whose souls and bodies the sweat of toil
has washed all base and wanton thoughts, who have implanted in them a
passion for manly virtue--these, I say, are the true nobles. (15) Not
theirs will it be to allow their city or its sacred soil to suffer
wrong.

 (9) Al. "looked upon the chase as a pursuit incumbent on the young."

 (10) {me koluein  (dia) to meden ton epi te ge phuomenon agreuein}. The
    commentators generally omit {dia}, in which case translate as in
    text. Lenz reads {un koluein dia meden} (see his note ad v. 34),
    and translates (p. 61), "Dass man die Jager nicht hindern solle,
    in allem was die Erde hervorbrachte zu jagen," "not to hinder the
    huntsmen from ranging over any of the crops which spring from
    earth"; (but if so, we should expect {dia medenos}). Sturz, s.v.
    {agreuein}, notes "festive," "because the hunter does not hunt
    vegetable products." So Gail, "parce que le chasseur rien veut pas
    aux productions de la terre."

 (11) Or, "set their face against night-hunting," cf. "Mem." IV. vii.
    4; Plat. "Soph." 220 D; "Stranger: There is one mode of striking
    which is done at night, and by the light of a fire, and is called
    by the hunters themselves firing, or spearing by firelight"
    (Jowett); for which see Scott, "Guy Mannering," ch. x. It seems
    "night hunting was not to be practised within a certain
    considerable radius, whereby the proficients in that art might
    deprive it (lit. in order that they might not deprive) them (the
    young huntsmen) of their game."

 (12) Lit. "in truth and reality (not among visionary phantoms)."

 (13) These words are commonly regarded as an addition; and what does
    {te} signify?

 (14) Or, "Here you have the making of brave soldiers and generals.
    Here in embryo are to be found your future soldiers and generals
    worthy the name."

 (15) {outoi aristoi}: these are prima virorum, the true aristocrats.

Some people tell us it is not right to indulge a taste for hunting,
lest it lead to neglect of home concerns, not knowing that those who are
benefactors of their country and their friends are in proportion all the
more devoted to domestic duties. If lovers of the chase pre-eminently
fit themselves to be useful to the fatherland, that is as much as to say
they will not squander their private means; since with the state itself
the domestic fortunes of each are saved or lost. The real fact is, these
men are saviours, not of their own fortunes only, but of the private
fortunes of the rest, of yours and mine. Yet there are not a few
irrational people amongst these cavillers who, out of jealousy, would
rather perish, thanks to their own baseness, than owe their lives to the
virtue of their neighbours. So true is it that the mass of pleasures are
but evil, (16) to which men succumb, and thereby are incited to adopt
the worse cause in speech and course in action. (17) And with what
result?--from vain and empty arguments they contract emnities, and reap
the fruit of evil deeds, diseases, losses, death--to the undoing of
themselves, their children, and their friends. (18) Having their senses
dulled to things evil, while more than commonly alive to pleasures, how
shall these be turned to good account for the salvation of the state?
Yet from these evils every one will easily hold aloof, if once enamoured
of those joys whose brief I hold, since a chivalrous education teaches
obedience to laws, and renders justice familiar to tongue and ear. (19)

 (16) See "Hellenica Essays," p. 371.

 (17) "To depravity of speech and conduct" (whether as advocates or
    performers). See Aristoph. "Clouds."

 (18) Or, "bring down on themselves, their children, and their friends
    a spring of misfortunes in the shape of diseases, losses, or even
    death."

 (19) "For what does a chivalrous education teach save to obey the law,
    and to make the theme of justice familiar to tongue and ear?"

In the one camp are those who, subjecting themselves ever to new toil
and fresh instruction, have, at the cost of lessons and exercises
painful to themselves, obtained to their several states salvation;
and in the other are those who for the very irksomeness of the process
choose not to be taught, but rather to pass away their days in pleasures
unseasonable--nature's abjects these. (20) Not theirs is it to obey
either laws or good instruction; (21) nay, how should they, who never
toil, discover what a good man ought to be?--in other words, wisdom and
justice are alike beyond their power. Subject to indiscipline, they have
many a fault to find with him who is well educated.

 (20) Lit. "the sorriest of mankind these by nature."

 (21) Or, "virtuous argument"; {logois agathois}, lit. "good words."

Through the instrumentality of such as these nothing can go well;
whereas every blessing which mankind enjoys has been discovered by the
efforts of the nobler sort. Nobler, I say, are those who choose to toil.
(22)

 (22) Or, "of choice spirits; and who are the choice spirits?--Clearly
    those who choose to toil."

And this has been proved conclusively by a notable example. If we look
back to the men of old who sat at the feet of Cheiron--whose names I
mentioned--we see that it was by dedicating the years of their youth to
the chase (23) that they learnt all their noble lore; and therefrom they
attained to great renown, and are admired even to this day for their
virtue--virtue who numbers all men as her lovers, as is very plain. Only
because of the pains it costs to win her the greater number fall away;
for the achievement of her is hid in obscurity; while the pains that
cleave to her are manifest. Perchance, if only she were endowed with a
visible bodily frame, men would less have neglected her, knowing that
even as she is visible to them, so they also are not hid from her eyes.
For is it not so that when a man moves in the presence of him whom he
dearly loves, (24) he rises to a height above himself, being incapable
of aught base or foul in word or deed in sight of him? (25) But fondly
dreaming that the eye of virtue is closed to them, they are guilty of
many a base thing and foul before her very face, who is hidden
from their eyes. Yet she is present everywhere, being dowered with
immortality; and those who are perfect in goodness (26) she honours, but
the wicked she thrusts aside from honour. If only men could know that
she regards them, how eagerly would they rush to the embrace of toilful
training and tribulation, (27) by which alone she is hardly taken; and
so should they gain the mastery over her, and she should be laid captive
at their feet.

 (23) Or, "that they made their first essay in hunting when mere boys,
    and from hunting upwards were taught many noble arts."

 (24) Lit. "is beheld by his beloved." Cf. "Symp." iv. 4; viii. 31.

 (25) Lit. "in order not to be seen of him."

 (26) Lit. "good with respect to her."

 (27) Or, "to those toils and that training."


XIII

