    "The violence of the fit of the stone, which has tormented me
    for some days, is now so far abated, that, although it will not
    permit me to have the honour to wait on your majesty, yet is
    kind enough to enable me so far to obey your orders, as to write
    my sentiments concerning that troublesome man, Mr. Pulteney; and
    to point out (what I conceive to be) the most effectual method
    to make him perfectly quiet. Your majesty well knows how by the
    dint of his eloquence he has so captivated the mob, and attained
    an unbounded popularity, that the most manifest wrong appears to
    be right, when adopted and urged by him. Hence it is, that he
    has become not only troublesome but dangerous. The inconsiderate
    multitude think that he has not one object but public good in
    view; although, if they would reflect a little, they would soon
    perceive that spleen against those your majesty has honoured
    with your confidence has greater weight with him than
    patriotism. Since, let any measure be proposed, however
    salutary, if he thinks it comes from me, it is sufficient for
    him to oppose it. Thus, sir, you see the affairs of the most
    momentous concern are subject to the caprice of that popular
    man; and he has nothing to do but call it a ministerial project,
    and bellow out the word _favourite_, to have an hundred pens
    drawn against it, and a thousand mouths open to contradict it.
    Under these circumstances, he bears up against the ministry
    (and, let me add, against your majesty itself); and every useful
    scheme must be either abandoned, or if it is carried in either
    house, the public are made to believe it is done by a corrupted
    majority. Since these things are thus circumstanced, it is
    become necessary for the public tranquility that he should be
    made quiet; and the only method to do that effectually is to
    destroy his popularity, and ruin the good belief the people have
    in him.

    "In order to do this, he must be invited to court; your majesty
    must condescend to speak to him in the most favourable and
    distinguished manner; you must make him believe that he is the
    only person upon whose opinion you can rely, and to whom your
    people look up for useful measures. As he has already several
    times refused to take the lead in the administration, unless it
    was totally modelled to his fancy, your majesty should close in
    with his advice, and give him leave to arrange the
    administration as he pleases, and put whom he chooses into
    office (there can be no danger in that as you can dismiss him
    when you think fit); and when he has got thus far (to which his
    extreme self-love and the high opinion he entertains of his own
    importance, will easily conduce), it will be necessary that your
    majesty should seem to have a great regard for his health;
    signifying to him that your affairs will be ruined if he should
    die; that you want to have him constantly near you, to have his
    sage advice; and that therefore, as he is much disordered in
    body, and something infirm, it will be necessary for his
    preservation for him to quit the House of Commons, where
    malevolent tempers will be continually fretting him, and where,
    indeed, his presence will be needless, as no step will be taken
    but according to his advice; and that he will let you give him a
    distinguishing mark of your approbation, by creating him a peer.
    This he may be brought to, for, if I know anything of mankind,
    he has a love of honour and money; and, notwithstanding his
    great haughtiness and seeming contempt for honour, he may be won
    if it be done with dexterity. For, as the poet Fenton says,
    'Flattery is an oil that softens the thoughtless fool.'

    "If your majesty can once bring him to accept of a coronet, all
    will be over with him; the changing multitude will cease to have
    any confidence in him; and when you see that, your majesty may
    turn your back to him, dismiss him from his post, turn out his
    meddling partizans, and restore things to quiet; the bee will
    have lost his sting, and become an idle drone whose buzzing
    nobody heeds.

    "Your majesty will pardon me for the freedom with which I have
    given my sentiments and advice; which I should not have done,
    had not your majesty commanded it, and had I not been certain
    that your peace is much disturbed by the contrivance of that
    turbulent man. I shall only add that I will dispose several whom
    I know to wish him well to solicit for his establishment in
    power, that you may seem to yield to their entreaties, and the
    finesse be less liable to be discovered.

    "I hope to have the honour to attend your majesty {305} in a few
    days; which I will do privately, that my public presence may
    give him no umbrage.

    (Signed) ROBERT WALPOLE

    "(Dated) 24. January, 1741."

As it seems incredible that Walpole could have written such a letter;
and the editor does not say where it is taken from, or where the
original is, I beg to ask any of your readers whether they have ever
seen the letter elsewhere, or attributed by any other writer to Walpole?
The editor adds, "accordingly, the scheme took place very soon after,
and Mr. Pulteney was in 1742 dignified with the titles before mentioned,
i.e. Earl of Bath, &c."

G.

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOPS OF OSSORY.

Acting on "R.R.'s" excellent suggestion (No. 16. p. 243. _antè_), I beg
to solicit from all collectors, who may chance to see these lines,
information relative to the _Bishops of Ossory_. I am at present engaged
on a work which will comprise that portion of Harris's edition of Sir
James Ware's _Bishops of Ireland_ bearing on the see of Ossory. The
following names are those concerning whom, especially, information,
either original or by reference to rare printed books, will be most
thankfully acknowledged:--

John Parry              Succ. 1672      Ob. 1677.
Benjamin Parry          Succ. 1677      Ob. 1678.
Michael Ward            Succ. 1678   Trans. 1679.
Thomas Otway            Succ. 1679      Ob. 1692.
John Hartstong          Succ. 1693   Trans. 1713.
Sir Thos. Vesey, Bart.  Succ. 1714      Ob. 1730.
Edw. Tennison           Succ. 1731      Ob. 1735.
Charles Este            Succ. 1736   Trans. 1740.
Anthony Dopping         Succ. 1740      Ob. 1743.
Michael Cox             Succ. 1743   Trans. 1755.
Edward Maurice          Succ. 1755      Ob. 1756.
Richard Pococke         Succ. 1756   Trans. 1765.
Charles Dodgson         Succ. 1765   Trans. 1775.
William Newcome         Succ. 1775   Trans. 1779.
Sir John Hotham, Bt.    Succ. 1779   Trans. 1782.
Hon. W. Beresford       Succ. 1782   Trans. 1795.
Thos. L. O'Beirne       Succ. 1795   Trans. 1798.
Hugh Hamilton           Succ. 1799      Ob. 1805.
John Kearney            Succ. 1806      Ob. 1813.

I may state, that I have access to that most excellent work _Fasti
Ecclesiæ Hiberniæ_, by Archdeacon Cotton, who has collected many
particulars respecting the above-named prelates.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny, Feb. 21. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Burton's Anatomy of (Religious) Melancholy._--In compliance with the
very useful suggestion of "R.R." (No. 16. p. 243.), I venture to express
my intention of reprinting the latter part of Burton's "Anatomy of
Melancholy," (viz. that relating to _Religious Melancholy_), and at the
same time to intimate my hope that any of your readers who may have it
in their power to render me any assistance, will kindly aid me in the
work.

M.D.

Oxford, Feb. 23.