The day had been sultry, the sun set with a drowsy eye, and the evening
air was moist, warm, and oppressive. It weighed heavily alike on mind
and body. I was crippled by my wound,--the journey was longer than my
strength could sustain much further,--still I resolved to persevere, for
I longed to be again in my father's house; and I fancied were I once
there, that the burning in my bosom would abate.

During my absence in India, the new road across the common had been
opened. By the time I reached it, the night was closed in,--a dull,
starless, breezeless, dumb, sluggish, and unwholesome night; and those
things which still retained in their shapes some blackness, deeper
than the darkness, seemed, as I slowly passed by, to be endowed with
mysterious intelligence, with which my spirit would have held communion
but for dread.

While I was frozen with the influence of this dreadful phantasy, I saw
a pale, glimmering, ineffectual light rising before me. It was neither
lamp, fire, nor candle; and though like, it was not yet flame. I took
it at first for the lustre of a reflection from some unseen light,
and I walked towards it, in the hope of finding a cottage or an
alehouse, where I might obtain some refreshment and a little rest.
I advanced,--its form enlarged, but its beam became no brighter;
and the horror, which had for a moment left me when it was first
discovered, returned with overwhelming power. I rushed forward, but soon
halted,--for I saw that it hung in the air, and as I approached, that it
began to take a ghastly and spectral form! I discerned the lineaments
of a head, and the hideous outlines of a shapeless anatomy. I stood
rivetted to the spot; for I thought that I saw behind it, a dark and
vast thing, in whose hand it was held forth. In that moment, a voice
said,--"It is Winlaw the murderer; his bones often, in the moist summer
nights, shine out in this way; it is thought to be an acknowledgment
of his guilt, for he died protesting his innocence."--The person who
addressed me was your Honor's gamekeeper, and the story I have told,
is the cause of my having desired him to bring me here.

(_To be concluded in the next Supplement_.)

       *       *       *       *       *

We have also received for notice Two Religious Annuals--the _Iris_
and _Emmanuel_; both which shall appear in our Second Supplement to
be published within two or three weeks.

Two Juvenile Annuals--_the Keepsake_ and _Forget-me-not_, have
likewise the same claim on our attention. These works, with two or three
others not yet published, will form another sheet of interesting
extract.

We thank the Correspondent who has forwarded to us a notice of _The
Sylph_, a Musical Annual, which justice to ourselves and the public
forbids us to insert, as we have not yet seen the work in question and
are consequently unable to judge of the writer's criticism. Humble and
unheeded as our opinions of New Works may be, we are always ready to
prove that no undue influence is used in the adjudication of their
merits. This has uniformly been our maxim, and our success is the best
criterion of its policy.