Produced by David Starner, Martin Pettit and the PG Online Distributed
Proofreading Team


TRAGIC SENSE OF LIFE

MIGUEL DE UNAMUNO

translator, J.E. CRAWFORD FLITCH


DOVER PUBLICATIONS, INC

New York

This Dover edition, first published in 1954, is an unabridged and
unaltered republication of the English translation originally published
by Macmillan and Company, Ltd., in 1921. This edition is published by
special arrangement with Macmillan and Company, Ltd.

The publisher is grateful to the Library of the University of
Pennsylvania for supplying a copy of this work for the purpose of
reproduction.

_Standard Book Number: 486-20257-7 Library of Congress Catalog Card
Number: 54-4730_

Manufactured in the United States of America
Dover Publications, Inc.
180 Varick Street
New York, N.Y. 10014


CONTENTS

                                                                   PAGES
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY                                              xi-xxxii

AUTHOR'S PREFACE                                             xxxiii-xxxv

I

THE MAN OF FLESH AND BONE

     Philosophy and the concrete man--The man Kant, the man Butler, and
     the man Spinoza--Unity and continuity of the person--Man an end not
     a means--Intellectual necessities and necessities of the heart and
     the will--Tragic sense of life in men and in peoples           1-18

II

THE STARTING-POINT

     Tragedy of Paradise--Disease an element of progress--Necessity of
     knowing in order to live--Instinct of preservation and instinct of
     perpetuation--The sensible world and the ideal world--Practical
     starting-point of all philosophy--Knowledge an end in itself?--The
     man Descartes--The longing not to die                         19-37

III

THE HUNGER OF IMMORTALITY

     Thirst of being--Cult of immortality--Plato's "glorious
     risk"--Materialism--Paul's discourse to the Athenians--Intolerance
     of the intellectuals--Craving for fame--Struggle for survival 38-57

IV

THE ESSENCE OF CATHOLICISM

     Immortality and resurrection--Development of idea of immortality in
     Judaic and Hellenic religions--Paul and the dogma of the
     resurrection--Athanasius--Sacrament of the
     Eucharist--Lutheranism--Modernism--The Catholic
     ethic--Scholasticism--The Catholic solution                   58-78

V

THE RATIONALIST DISSOLUTION

     Materialism--Concept of substance--Substantiality of the
     soul--Berkeley--Myers--Spencer--Combat of life with
     reason--Theological advocacy--_Odium anti-theologicum_--The
     rationalist attitude--Spinoza--Nietzsche--Truth and consolation
                                                                  79-105

VI

IN THE DEPTHS OF THE ABYSS

     Passionate doubt and Cartesian doubt--Irrationality of the problem
     of immortality--Will and intelligence--Vitalism and
     rationalism--Uncertainty as basis of faith--The ethic of
     despair--Pragmatical justification of despair--Summary of preceding
     criticism                                                   106-131

VII

LOVE, SUFFERING, PITY, AND PERSONALITY

     Sexual love--Spiritual love--Tragic love--Love and
     pity--Personalizing faculty of love--God the Personalization of the
     All--Anthropomorphic tendency--Consciousness of the Universe--What
     is Truth?--Finality of the Universe                         132-155

VIII

FROM GOD TO GOD

     Concept and feeling of Divinity--Pantheism--Monotheism--The
     rational God--Proofs of God's existence--Law of necessity--Argument
     from _Consensus gentium_--The living God--Individuality and
     personality--God a multiplicity--The God of Reason--The God of
     Love--Existence of God                                      156-185

IX

FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY

     Personal element in faith--Creative power of faith--Wishing that
     God may exist--Hope the form of faith--Love and suffering--The
     suffering God--Consciousness revealed through
     suffering--Spiritualization of matter                       186-215

X

RELIGION, THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE BEYOND, AND THE APOCATASTASIS

     What is religion?--The longing for immortality--Concrete
     representation of a future life--Beatific vision--St.
     Teresa--Delight requisite for happiness--Degradation of
     energy--Apocatastasis--Climax of the tragedy--Mystery of the Beyond
                                                                 216-259

XI

THE PRACTICAL PROBLEM

     Conflict as basis of conduct--Injustice of annihilation--Making
     ourselves irreplaceable--Religious value of the civil
     occupation--Business of religion and religion of business--Ethic of
     domination--Ethic of the cloister--Passion and culture--The Spanish
     soul                                                        260-296

CONCLUSION

DON QUIXOTE IN THE CONTEMPORARY EUROPEAN TRAGI-COMEDY

     Culture--Faust--The modern Inquisition--Spain and the scientific
     spirit--Cultural achievement of Spain--Thought and language--Don
     Quixote the hero of Spanish thought--Religion a transcendental
     economy--Tragic ridicule--Quixotesque philosophy--Mission of Don
     Quixote to-day                                              297-330


INTRODUCTORY ESSAY

DON MIGUEL DE UNAMUNO


I sat, several years ago, at the Welsh National Eisteddfod, under the
vast tent in which the Bard of Wales was being crowned. After the small
golden crown had been placed in unsteady equilibrium on the head of a
clever-looking pressman, several Welsh bards came on the platform and
recited little epigrams. A Welsh bard is, if young, a pressman, and if
of maturer years, a divine. In this case, as England was at war, they
were all of the maturer kind, and, while I listened to the music of
their ditties--the sense thereof being, alas! beyond my reach--I was
struck by the fact that all of them, though different, closely resembled
Don Miguel de Unamuno. It is not my purpose to enter into the wasp-nest
of racial disquisitions. If there is a race in the world over which more
sense and more nonsense can be freely said for lack of definite
information than the Welsh, it is surely this ancient Basque people,
whose greatest contemporary figure is perhaps Don Miguel de Unamuno. I
am merely setting down that intuitional fact for what it may be worth,
though I do not hide my opinion that such promptings of the inner,
untutored man are worth more than cavefuls of bones and tombfuls of
undecipherable papers.

This reminiscence, moreover, which springs up into the light of my
memory every time I think of Don Miguel de Unamuno, has to my mind a
further value in that in it the image of Don Miguel does not appear as
evoked by one man, but by many, though many of one species, many who in
depth are but one man, one type, the Welsh divine. Now, this unity
underlying a multiplicity, these many faces, moods, and movements,
traceable to one only type, I find deeply connected in my mind with
Unamuno's person and with what he signifies in Spanish life and letters.
And when I further delve into my impression, I first realize an
undoubtedly physical relation between the many-one Welsh divines and the
many-one Unamuno. A tall, broad-shouldered, bony man, with high cheeks,
a beak-like nose, pointed grey beard, and a complexion the colour of the
red hematites on which Bilbao, his native town, is built, and which
Bilbao ruthlessly plucks from its very body to exchange for gold in the
markets of England--and in the deep sockets under the high aggressive
forehead prolonged by short iron-grey hair, two eyes like gimlets
eagerly watching the world through spectacles which seem to be purposely
pointed at the object like microscopes; a fighting expression, but of
noble fighting, above the prizes of the passing world, the contempt for
which is shown in a peculiar attire whose blackness invades even that
little triangle of white which worldly men leave on their breast for the
necktie of frivolity and the decorations of vanity, and, blinding it,
leaves but the thinnest rim of white collar to emphasize, rather than
relieve, the priestly effect of the whole. Such is Don Miguel de
Unamuno.

Such is, rather, his photograph. For Unamuno himself is ever changing. A
talker, as all good Spaniards are nowadays, but a talker in earnest and
with his heart in it, he is varied, like the subjects of his
conversation, and, still more, like the passions which they awake in
him. And here I find an unsought reason in intellectual support of that
intuitional observation which I noted down in starting--that Unamuno
resembles the Welsh in that he is not ashamed of showing his
passions--a thing which he has often to do, for he is very much alive
and feels therefore plenty of them. But a word of caution may here be
necessary, since that term, "passion," having been diminished--that is,
made meaner--by the world, an erroneous impression might be conveyed by
what precedes, of the life and ways of Unamuno. So that it may not be
superfluous to say that Don Miguel de Unamuno is a Professor of Greek in
the University of Salamanca, an ex-Rector of it who left behind the
reputation of being a strong ruler; a father of a numerous family, and a
man who has sung the quiet and deep joys of married life with a
restraint, a vigour, and a nobility which it would be difficult to match
in any literature. _Yet_ a passionate man--or, as he would perhaps
prefer to say, _therefore_ a passionate man. But in a major, not in a
minor key; of strong, not of weak passions.

