At p. 51. Spence says:--"Does it not sound mean to talk of lopping a
man? of lopping away all his posterity? or of trimming him with brazen
sheers? Is there not something mean, where a goddess is represented as
beck'ning and waving her deathless hands; or, when the gods are dragging
those that have provok'd them to destruction by the Links of fate?" Of
the two first instances, Pope says:--"Intended to be comic in a
sarcastic speech." And of the last:--"I think not at all mean, see the
Greek." The remarks are, however, expunged.

The longest remonstrance occurs at p. 6. of the Fifth Dialogue. Spence
had written:--"The _Odyssey_, as a moral poem, exceeds all the writings
of the ancients: it is perpetual in forming the manners, and in
instructing the mind; it sets off the duties of life more fully as well
as more agreeably than the Academy or Lyceum. _Horace ventured to say
thus much of the Iliad, and certainly it may be more justly said of this
later production by the same hand_." For the words in Italics Pope has
substituted:--"Horace, who was so well acquainted with the tenets of
both, has given Homer's poems the preference to either:" and says in a
note:--"I think you are mistaken in limiting this commendation and
judgment of Horace to the _Iliad_. He says it, at the beginning of his
Epistle, of Homer in general, and afterwards proposes both poems equally
as examples of morality; though the _Iliad_ be mentioned first: but then
follows--'_Rursus quid virtus et quid sapientia possit, Utile proposuit
nobis exemplar Ulyssem_,' &c. of the Odyssey."

At p. 34. Spence says:--"There seems to be something mean and awkward in
this image:--

  "'His _loose head_ tottering as with wine opprest
   Obliquely drops, and _nodding_ knocks his breast.'"

Here Pope says:--"Sure these are good lines. {397} They are not mine."
Of other passages which please him, he occasionally says,--"This is good
sense." And on one occasion, where Spence had objected, he says
candidly:--"This is bad, indeed,"--"and this."

At p. 50. Spence writes:--"There's a passage which I remember I was
mightily pleased with formerly in reading _Cervantes_, without seeing
any reason for it at that time; tho' I now imagine that which took me in
it comes under this view. Speaking of Don Quixote, the first time that
adventurer came in sight of the ocean, he expresses his sentiments on
this occasion in the following manner:--'He saw the sea, which he had
never seen before, and thought it much bigger than the river at
Salamanca.'" On this occasion Pope suggests,--"Dr. Swift's fable to
Ph----s, of the two asses and Socrates."

S.W. SINGER.
April 8. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

_Charm for the Toothache._--The charm which one of your correspondents
has proved to be in use in the south-eastern counties of England, and
another has shown to be practised at Kilkenny, was also known more than
thirty years ago in the north of Scotland. At that time I was a
school-boy at Aberdeen, and a sufferer--probably it was in March or
April, with an easterly wind--from toothache. A worthy Scotchwoman told
me, that the way to be cured of my toothache was to find a charm for it
in the Bible. I averred, as your correspondent the curate did, that I
could not find any such charm. My adviser then repeated to me the charm,
which I wrote down from her dictation. Kind soul! she could not write
herself. It was pretty nearly in the words which your correspondent has
sent you. According to my recollection, it ran thus:--"Peter sat upon a
stone, weeping. And the Lord said unto him, 'Peter, why weepest thou?'
And he answered, and said, 'Lord, my tooth acheth.' And the Lord said
unto him, 'Arise, Peter, thy teeth shall ache no more.'" "Now,"
continued my instructress, "if you gang home and put yon bit screen into
your Bible, you'll never be able to say again that you canna find a
charm agin the toothache i' the Bible." This was her version of the
matter, and I have no doubt it was the orthodox one; for, although one
of the most benevolent old souls I ever knew, she was also one of the
most ignorant and superstitious. I kept the written paper, not in my
Bible, but in an old pocket-book for many years, but it has disappeared.

JOHN BRUCE.

_Easter Eggs_ (No. 16. p. 244.).--Breakfasting on Easter Monday, some
years ago, at the George Inn at Ilminster, in the county of Somerset, in
the palmy days of the Quicksilver Mail, when the table continued to be
spread for coach travellers at that time from four in the morning till
ten at night, we were presented with eggs stained in the boiling with a
variety of colours: a practice which Brande records as being in use in
his time in the North of England, and among the modern Greeks.

S.S.S.

_Cure for the Hooping-cough._--"I know," said one of my parishioners,
"what would cure him, but m'appen you woudent believe me." "What is it,
Mary?" I asked. "Why, I did every thing that every body teld me. One
teld me to get him breathed on by a pie-bald horse. I took him ever such
a way, to a horse at ----, and put him under the horse's mouth; but he
was no better. Then I was teld to drag him backward through a bramble
bush. I did so; but this didn't cure him. Last of all, I was teld to
give him nine fried mice, fasting, in a morning, in this way:--three the
first morning; then wait three mornings, and then give him three more;
wait three mornings, and then give him three more. When he had eaten
these nine fried mice he became quite well. This would be sure to cure
your child, Sir."

W.H.K.
Drayton Beauchamp.

_Gootet._--In Eccleshall parish, Staffordshire, Shrove Tuesday is called
Gootet. I am not aware if this be the true spelling, for I have never
seen it in print. Can any of your readers supply the etymology, or state
whether it is so called in any other part of England? I have searched
numerous provincial glossaries, but have hitherto been unsuccessful.

B.G.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DUKE OF MONMOUTH'S POCKET-BOOK.

It is reasonable to conclude, that the article copied from _Chambers'
Edinburgh Journal_, in No. 13., furnishes the strongest evidence that
can be adduced in support of the opinion, that the book in the
possession of Dr. Anster is the one found on the Duke of Monmouth when
captured, after his defeat at Sedgemoor; and, if so, it is impossible to
admit the hypothesis, because a portion of the contents of the real book
has been given to the world and contains matter far too important to
have been passed over by Dr. Anster, had it existed in his volume. In
the 6th edition of Dr. Welwood's _Memoirs of the most material
Transactions in England for the last Hundred Years preceding the
Revolution in 1688_, printed for "Tim. Goodwin, at the Queen's Head,
against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet Street, 1718," the following
passage is to be found at p. 147.:--

    "But of the most things above mentioned there is an infallible
    proof extant under Monmouth's own hand, in a little pocket-book
    which was taken with him and delivered to King James; which by
    an accident, as needless to mention here, I have leave to copy
    and did {398} it in part. A great many dark passages there are
    in it, and some clear enough that shall be eternally buried for
    me: and perhaps it had been for King James's honour to have
    committed them to the flames, as Julius Cæsar is said to have
    done on a like occasion. All the use that shall be made of it
    is, to give in the Appendix some few passages out of it that
    refer to this subject, and confirm what has been above related."

In the Appendix the following extracts are given from the Duke's book:--

    "_October_ 13. L. came to me at eleven at night from 29, told me
    29 could never be brought to believe I knew anything of that
    part of the plot that concern'd _Rye House_; but as things went
    he must behave himself as if he did believe it, for some reasons
    that might be for my advantage. L. desired me to write to 29,
    which I refus'd; but afterwards told me 29 expected it; and I
    promis'd to write to-morrow if he could call for the letter; at
    which S.L. shew'd a great concern for me, and I believe him
    sincere though S is of another mind.

    "14. L. came as he promis'd and receiv'd the letter from 3
    sealed, refusing to read it himself, tho' I had left it open
    with S. for that purpose.

    "20. L. came to me at S. with a line or two from 29 very kind,
    assuring me he believed every word in my letter to be true; and
    advis'd me to keep hid till he had an opportunity to express his
    belief of it some other way. L. told me that he was to go out of
    town next day and that 29 would send 80 to me in a day or two,
    whom he assured me I might trust.

    "25. L. came for me to ----, where 29 was with 80. He receiv'd
    me pretty well, and said 30 and 50 were the causes of my
    misfortune and would ruin me. After some hot words against them
    and against S., went away in a good humour.

    "26. I went to E---- and was in danger of being discover'd by
    some of Oglethorpe's men that met me accidentally at the back
    door of the garden.

    "_Nov_ 2. A letter from 29 to be to-morrow at seven at night at
    S. and nobody to know it but 80.

    "3. He came not, there being an extraordinary council. But 80
    brought me a copy of 50's intercepted letter, which made rather
    for me than against me. Bid me come to-morrow at the same hour,
   and to say nothing of the letter except 29 spake of it first.

    "4. I came and found 29 and L. there; he was very kind and gave
    me directions how to manage my business and what words I should
    say to 39. He appointed 80 to come to me every night until my
    business was ripe and promised to send with him directions from
    time to time.

    "9. L. came from 29 and told me my business should be done to my
    mind next week, and that Q. was my friend, and had spoke to 39
    and D. in my behalf; which he said 29 took very kindly and had
    expressed so to her. At parting he told me there should be
    nothing requir'd of me but what was both safe and honourable.
    But said there must be something done to blind 39.

    "15. L came to me with a copy of a letter I was to sign to
    please 39. I desired to know in whose hands it was to be
    deposited; for I would have it in no hands but 29. He told me it
    should be so; but if 39 ask'd a copy it could not well be
    refus'd. I referred myself entirely to 29's pleasure.

    "24. L. came to me from 29 and order'd me to render myself
    to-morrow. Cautioned me to play my part, to avoid questions as
    much as possible, and to seem absolutely converted to 39's
    interest. Bad me bear with some words that might seem harsh.

    "25. I render'd myself. At night 29 could not dissemble his
    satisfaction; press'd my hand, which I remember not he did
    before except when I return'd from the French service. 29 acted
    his part well, and I too. 39 and D. seemed not ill pleas'd.

    "26. 29 took me aside and falling upon the business of L.R. said
    he inclined to have sav'd him but was forc'd to it, otherwise he
    must have broke with 39. Bid me think no more on't. Coming home
    L. told me he fear'd 39 began to smell out 29's carriage. That
    ---- said to 39 that morning that all that was done was but
    sham.

    "27. Several told me of the storm that was brewing. Rumsey was
    with 39 and was seem to come out crying that he must accuse a
    man he lov'd.

    "_Dec._ 19. A letter from 29 bidding me stay till I heard
    farther from him.

    "_Jan._ 5. I received a letter from L. marked by 29 in the
    margin to trust entirely in 10; and that in February I should
    certainly have leave to return. That matters were concerted
    towards it; and that 39 had no suspicion, notwithstanding of my
    reception here.

    "_Feb._ 8. A letter from L. that my business was almost as well
    as done; but must be so sudden as not to leave room for 39's
    party to counterplot. That it is probable he would choose
    Scotland rather than Flanders or this country; which was all one
    to 29.

    "16. The sad news of his death by L. _O cruel fate!_"

Dr. Welwood cautiously adds, in a note:--

    "That by 29 and 39 King Charles and the Duke of York seem to be
    meant. But I know not what to make of the other numbers and
    letters, and must leave the reader to his own conjectures."

There can, I apprehend, be little doubt that the L.R., under the date of
November 26, were meant to indicate the patriotic Lord Russell.

The whole of these extracts possess the highest interest, establishing
as they do several points referred to by historians. It is curious to
remark the complete subjection in which Charles, at this period, stood
towards his brother; occasioned, perhaps, but the foreign supplies which
he scrupled not to receive, being dependant on his adhesion to the
policy of which the Duke of York was the avowed representative. Shortly
before his death, Charles appears to have meditated emancipation from
this state of thraldom; and Hume says,--

    "He was determined, it is thought, to send the Duke to Scotland,
    to recall Monmouth, to summon a parliament, to dismiss all his
    unpopular ministers, and to throw himself entirely upon the good
    will and affections of his subjects." {399}

This passage accords with the entries in Monmouth's pocket-book under
the dates of Jan. 5. and Feb. 3. If the unfortunate Monmouth could have
foreseen the miserable end, with all its accompanying humiliations and
horrors, to which a few months were destined to bring him, his
exclamation, "O cruel fate!" would have acquired additional bitterness.

C. ROSS.

    [We insert the foregoing as serving to complete the series of
    interesting notices connected with the capture of Monmouth which
    have appeared in our columns, rather than from an agreement with
    the views of our valued correspondent. Dr. Anster states, that
    in the pocket-book in his possession, the Duke's movements up to
    the 14th March, 1684-5, are given. Would he kindly settle the
    question by stating whether the passages quoted by Weldon are to
    be found among them?]

       *       *       *       *       *


QUERIES.

WOOLTON'S CHRISTIAN MANUAL.

One important use, I conceive, of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" is, the
opportunity it presents of ascertaining the existence of rare editions
of early printed books. Can any of your readers state where a copy or
copies of the following may be found?

    "The Christian Manuell, or the life and maners of true
    Christians. A Treatise, wherein is plentifully declared how
    needeful it is for the servaunts of God to manifest and declare
    to the world: their faith by their deedes, their words by their
    work, and their profession by their conversation. Written by
    Jhon Woolton, Minister of the Gospel, in the cathedral church of
    Exetor. Imprinted at London by J.C. for Tho. Sturruppe, in
    Paules Church yarde, at the George, 1576. Dedicated to Sir
    William Cordell knight, Maister of the Rolles.--At Whymple 20
    Nouember 1676. N 7, in eights."--Copy formerly in the possession
    of Herbert. (Herbert, _Typographical Antiquities_, vol. ii. p.
    1094.)

There is an imperfect copy, I understand, in the Bodleian. Access to
another copy has been needed for an important public object, in order to
transcribe the leaf or leaves wanting in the Bodleian copy; and the
book, so far as I am aware, does not occur in any other public
libraries.

Woolton was nephew to Nowell, author of the _Catechisms_. He wrote
several other pieces, and was Bishop of Exeter 1579-1593. (Wood,
_Athen. Oxon._ ed. Bliss, vol. i. pp. 600, 601.)

T.
Bath, April 9. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

LUTHER'S TRANSLATION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT:--1 JOHN, v. 7.

In an article of the _Quarterly Review_ (vol. xxxiii. p. 78.) on this
controverted passage of St. John's Epistles, generally attributed to the
present learned Bishop of Ely, the following statement is made
respecting Luther:--

    "Let it also be recollected, to the honour of Luther,
    Bugenhagius, and other leaders of the Reformation, that in this
    contest they magnanimously stood by the decision of Erasmus.
    Luther, in his translation of the New Testament, omitted the
    passage; and, in the preface to the last edition (in 1546)
    revised by himself, he solemnly requested that his translation
    should on no account be altered."

Since such was the injunction of Luther, how does it happen that this
verse appears in the later editions of his Testament? I have looked into
five or six editions, and have not found the verse in the two earliest.
These bear the following titles:--

    "Biblia dat ys. de gantze hillige Schrifft verdüdeschet dorch
    Doct. Mart. Luth. Wittemberch. Hans Lufft. 1579." (in folio.)
    "Dat Neu Testamente verdüdeschet dörch D. Mart. Luth. mit den
    korten Summarien L. Leonharti Hutteri. Gosslar. In Iahre 1619."

The verse appears in an edition of his Bible printed at Halle in 1719;
in his New Testament, Tubingen, 1793; in one printed at Basel in 1821;
and is also to be found in that printed by the Christian Knowledge
Society. In the Basel edition the verse is thus given;--

    "Denn Drey sind, die de zeugen im Himmel; der Vater, das Wort,
    und der beilige Geist; und diese Drey sind Eins."

Perhaps some of your learned readers can explain when, and by whose
authority, the verse was inserted in Luther's Testament.

E.M.B.

    [We may add, that the verse also appears in the stereotype
    edition of Luther's Bible, published by Tauchnitz, at Leipsig,
    in 1819.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

_Medical Symbols._--"A PATIENT" inquires respecting the origin and date
of the marks used to designate weights in medical prescriptions.


_Charles II. and Lord R.'s Daughter._--Can any of your readers inform me
who was the lady that is referred to in the following passage, from
Henry Sidney's _Diary_, edited by Mr. Blencowe (March 9. 1610, vol. i.
p. 298.):--

    "The King hath a new mistress, Lord R----'s daughter: she
    brought the Duke of Monmouth to the King."

C.


_St. Alban's Day._--A friend has asked me the following question, which
some of your readers may perhaps be able to answer, viz.:--

"Till the reign of Ed. VI. St. Alban's Day was kept in England on June
22d (the supposed anniversary {400} of his martyrdom). It was then
erased from the kalendar, but restored to it in the reign of Chas. II.;
when it was transferred to June 17th. Why was this change made?"

W.C. TREVELYAN.


_Black Broth_ (No. 19. p. 300.).--If this were a sauce or condiment, may
not the colour have been produced by the juice of the Boletus, much used
in Greece to the present day?

S.S.S.


_Deputy-Lieutenants of the Tower of London._--By whom were these
officers appointed? What was the nature of their duties? Had they a
salary, or was the office an honorary appointment? They used to meet
periodically, was it for the transaction of business? if so, what
business? Does the office still exist?

S.S.S.


_Buccaneers--Charles II._--There is a passage in Bryan Edward's _History
of the West Indies_ (vol. i. p. 164. 4to edit. 1793), in which he gives
an opinion that the buccaneers of Jamaica were not the pirates and
robbers that they have been commonly represented; and mentions, on the
authority of a MS. journal of Sir William Beeston, that Charles II. had
a pecuniary interest in the buccaneering, and continued to receive a
share of the booty after he had publicly ordered the suppression of
buccaneering: and also, speaking of Sir Henry Morgan, and the honours he
received from Charles II., gives an opinion that the stories told of
Morgan's cruelty are untrue. Can any of your readers tell me who Sir
William Beeston was, and what or where his journal is? or refer me to
any accessible information about Charles II.'s connection with the
buccaneers, or that may support Bryan Edwards's favourable opinion of
the Jamaica buccaneers and of Sir Henry Morgan?

C.


_Travelling in 1590.--Richard Hooker._--Could any of your readers give
me some particulars of travelling at the above period between London and
Salisbury? I should also feel greatly indebted for any _unpublished_
particulars in the life of the "Judicious Richard Hooker" after his
marriage. Answers might be sent, either through "NOTES AND QUERIES," or
direct to me,

W. HASTINGS KELKE.
Drayton Beauchamp, Tring.


_Decker's Raven's Almanack--Nash's Terrors of the Night, &c._--Having
lately picked up a volume of old tracts, I am anxious to learn how far I
may congratulate myself on having met with a prize. Among the contents
are--

1. "The Rauen's Almanacke," for the year 1609, purporting to be by T.
Deckers. Is this the same person with Thomas Dekker the dramatist?

2. Nashe's "Terrors of the Night" (wanting eight leaves at the
beginning.) Of this, Beloe (the only authority within my reach) says,
that only one copy is known to exist; can his statement be correct?

3. A religious tract, which seems only remarkable for its bad printing,
obscure wording, and almost invariably using the third person singular
of the verb, whatever be the nominative. It begins--

    "To all you who profess the name of our Lord Jesus in words, and
    makes mention of his words, &c."....

And the first division ends--

    "This have I written in love to all your soules, who am one who
    did drinke of the cup of fornication, and have drunke of the cup
    of indignation, but now drinkes the cup of salvation, where
    sorrow and tears is fled away; and yet am a man of sorrows and
    well acquainted with griefe, and suffers with the seed, and
    travels that it may be brought forth of captivity; called by the
    world F.H."

Who is F.H.?

4. Sundry poems on husbandry, housewifery, and the like, by Thomas
Tusser; but as the tract is mutilated up to cap. 3.,

  "I have been prayde,
  To shew mine aide," &c.,

I am not book-learned enough to know whether it be the same as Tusser's
_Five Hundred Poynts of Good Husbandry_. Information on any of the above
points would oblige.

J.E.


_Prebendaries._--When were prebendaries first appointed, and what the
nature of their duties generally? What is the rank of a prebendary of a
cathedral or other church, whether as a layman or a clerk in orders?
Would a vicar, being a prebendary, take precedence as such of a rector
not being one? Where is the best account of prebends to be found?

S.S.S.


_Luther's Portrait at Warwick Castle._--There is at Warwick Castle a
fine half-length portrait of Luther by Holbein, very unlike the ordinary
portraits of the great reformer. Is this portrait a genuine one? Has it
been engraved?

E.M.B.


_Rawdon Papers._--The Rev. Mr. Berwick, in introducing to the public, in
1819, the interesting volume known by the name of _Rawdon Papers_,
says,--

    "They are a small part of a correspondence which was left in the
    Editor's hands after the greater portion had been sent several
    years before to the Marquis of Hastings, whose absence at this
    time prevents the Editor's making such additions to his stock as
    might render it more interesting to the public."

Do these papers still exist in the possession of {401} the Hastings
family, and is there any chance of a further publication? The volume
published by Mr. Berwick contains some very interesting incidental
illustrations of the politics, literature, and society of the
seventeenth century, and much might be expected from the remaining
papers. I may add, that this volume has not been so much used by
historians as it should be; but, as was to be expected, it has not
escaped Mr. Macaulay. It is not not well edited.

C.


_Wellington, Wyrwast, Cokam._--In a MS. letter which I have relating to
the siege of Taunton in the Civil war, is the following sentence,
describing the movements of the royal army:--

    "The enemy on Friday last have quitted their garrisions in
    Wellington Wyrwast and Cokam houses; the two last they have
    burnt."

I am not certain about the second name, which seems to be Wyrwast; and
hsould be obliged by any information relative to these three houses.

C.


_Blockade of Corfe Castle in 1644._--In Martyn's _Life of Shafetesbury_
(vol. i. p. 148.) it is stated that a parliamentary force, under Sir
A.A. Cooper, blockaded Corfe Castle in 1644, after the taking of
Wareham. I can find no mention any where else of an attack on Corfe
Castle in 1644. The blockade of that castle, which Lady Bankes's defence
has made memorable, was in the previous year, and Sir A.A. Cooper had
not then joined the parliament. I should be glad if any of your readers
could either corroborate Martyn's account of a blockade of Corfe Castle
in 1644, or prove it to be, as I am inclined to think it, a
mis-statement.

I should be very thankful for any information as to Sir Anthony Asteley
Cooper's proceedings in Dorsetshire, Wiltshire, and Somersetshire,
during the Civil War and Commonwealth, being engaged upon a life of Lord
Shaftesbury.

C.


_MSS. of Locke._--A translation, by Locke, of Nicole's _Essays_ was
published in 1828 by Harvey and Darton, London; and it is stated in the
title-page of the book, that it is printed from an autograph MS. of
Locke, in the possession of Thomas Hancock, M.D. I wish to know if Dr.
Hancock, who also edited the volume, is still alive? and, if so, would
let this querist have access to the other papers of Locke's which he
speaks of in the preface?

C.


_Locke's proposed Life of Lord Shaftesbury._--I perceive that the
interesting volume of letters of Locke, Algernon Sidney, and Lord
Shaftesbury, published some years ago, by Mr. Foster, is advertised in
your columns by your own publisher; and I therefore inquire, with some
hope of eliciting information, whether the papers in Mr. Foster's
possession, which he has abstained from publishing, contain any notices
of the first Earl of Shaftesbury; and I am particularly anxious to know
whether they contain any references to the Life of Lord Shaftesbury
which Locke meditated, or throw any light upon the mode in which Locke
would have become possessed of some suppressed passages of Edmund
Ludlow's memoirs.

C.


_Theses._--Many German works introduced into Catalogues, are _theses_
defended at the universities. The name of the _President_ is generally
first, and in larger letters than that of the propounder, who is usually
the author. Hence, it often happens, that the _Thesis_ is entered as a
work written by the _Præses_. But is not unfrequently happened, that
this Præses was _really_ the author; and that, as an easy way of
publishing his thought, he entrusted an essay to a candidate for a
degree, to be defended by him. The seventh rule of the Museum Catalogue
runs thus:--

    "The respondent or defender in a thesis to be considered its
    author, except when it unequivocally appears to be the work of
    the Præses."

Now, I would ask, what are the usual signs of the authorship? Are there
any catalogues of Theses? Any bibliographical works which contain hints
for guidance in this matter? Any correspondents who can advise generally
on the whole matter?

M.


_Apocrypha._--What editions of the Bible _containing the Apocrypha_ are
now on sale at the ordinary way?


_J.B.'s Treatise on Art and Nature._--By a scrap of a book, apparently
of the sixteenth century, it seems to be a Treatise by J.B. upon Art and
Nature: the first book is "of Water-workes." What book is this?

M.


_Nursery Games and Rhymes._--In the _Letters and Memoir of Bishop
Shirley_, allusion is made (p. 415.) to a once popular game called
"Thread the needle," the first four lines of which are given. Can any of
your readers supply the remainder, or refer me to any work where they
may be found? I also should feel obliged by any information respecting
the age and origin of the popular nursery song, beginning,--

  "A frog he would a-wooing go,
    Heigho, says Rowley."

Perhaps some of your readers will state where the correct text may be
met with.

B.G.J.


_Emancipation of the Jews._--In Francis' _History of the Bank of
English_, p. 24., mention is made of an offer on the part of the Jews to
pay 500,000l. to the state on the following conditions;--1. That the
laws against them should be repealed; 2. That the Bodleian Library
should be assigned to them; 3. That they should have permission to use
St. {402} Paul's Cathedral as a Synagogue. It is stated, on the
authority of a letter in the Thurloe State Papers, that this proposition
was actually discussed. The larger sum of 800,000l. was demanded; but,
being refused, the negotiation was broken off. This proposition is said
to have been made shortly before the elevation of Cromwell to the
Protectorate. The subject is an interesting one in these days, when
Jewish disabilities are under discussion.

I wish to offer two queries:--1. Is this story confirmed by any
contemporary writer? 2. Is it conceivable that the Jews would have
consented to worship in a _cruciform_ church, such as was old St.
Paul's, which was standing at the time this offer is supposed to have
been made?

H.M. AUSTEN.
St. Peter's, Thanet.


_The Complutensian MSS._--Has not there been an account of these MSS.
published in London in 1821? My authority for this Query is to be found
in a work of Dr. D. Antonio Puigblanch:--

    "En el año 1821 per encargo que hice desde Madrid _se imprimio
    mio aca en Londres_, de que es falso este rumor[2], pues en la
    biblioteca de la Universidad de Alcala quedaban pocos meses
    antes en gue estune en ella siete manuscritos biblicos en
    aquellas dos lenguas[3], que son sin duda los mismos siete de
    que hace mencion en la Vida del Cardenal Cisneros, Alfonso de
    Castro, doctor téologo de la misma Universidad, i escritor
    contemporaneo o de poco tiempo después, parte de los cuales
    manuscritos, es a saber, los caldéos, son de letra de Alfonso de
   Zamora, que es uno de los tres judíos conversos editores de la
   Complutense."--_Opusculos Gramatico-Satiricos del Dr. D. Antonio
   Puigblanch_, Londres [1832], p. 365.

If the Chaldee and Hebrew MSS. of the Complutensian Polyglot were at
Alcala in 1821, when were they removed to Madrid, and in what library at
Madrid are they now? The Greek MSS. are supposed to have been returned
to the Vatican Library. If the Chaldee MSS. are in the handwriting of
one of the editors, as stated by Puigblanch, they cannot be of much
value or authority. I shall add another Query:--Are they paper or
parchment?

E.M.B.

    [Footnote 2: That the MSS. were destroyed.]

    [Footnote 3: Hebrew and Chaldee.]

