"Wrecking" has long been deservedly a national reproach. It is, however,
rarely accompanied with the cruelty and violence by which it was formerly
characterized; and such aggravated scenes now seldom occur. The people of
our coasts have become, generally, much more civilized, and probably the
"march of improvement" will ultimately eradicate so inhuman a custom. In
Cornwall it was carried to such an excess that the example was even given
from the pulpit; and there is a story related of a Cornish parson, who
upon information being brought to his congregation of a wreck whilst they
were at church, exhorted them to pause as they were rushing out _en masse_
in the midst of the service; and having gained the door, took to his heels
saying, "Now, my lads, it is but fair we should all start alike!" and
reached the wreck first. The people view the plunder of a wreck as a right,
and it is in vain to attempt to persuade them otherwise. However it is but
justice to say that they have frequently risked, and even sacrificed,
their own lives in endeavouring to preserve those of others; though some
recent instances, especially in Wales, prove that the old disposition
still lurks amongst the people, and sometimes breaks out with unabated
violence.

The arrival of a party of the Preventive Service that evening, in some
measure proved a check to the plunder of the peasantry; but the guards
themselves were not proof against the prevailing infection, and similar
scenes to that related, prevailed as long as there was any thing left to
drink or pick up; however, a considerable part of the cargo was safely
stowed, though there were few of the rum casks that did not afterwards
turn out impregnated with bilge water.

On a fine grey morning, about a week after these events occurred, I
wandered out towards the shore: there had been rough weather in the
channel, and many wrecks, and the turbulence of the ocean had not yet
subsided. It was about half-flood when I reached the _Bonne Esperance_.
She had disappeared by piece-meal under the repeated assaults of the sea,
but the principal part of the hull was still hanging together. Each wave
as it struck her tattered timbers, seemed to sap away her strength and
threatened to shake her to fragments. I sat with the supercargo for about
an hour, watching the flow of the tide. Her timbers cracked louder and
louder at each shock of the breakers; when a heavy sea struck her, her
joints loosened, and she broke up at last, scattered into fragments, and
whelmed in a gulf of boiling waters which foamed like an immense cauldron
over the place she had occupied a minute before. We had watched the
progress to this final disaster with the deepest interest--I may almost
say sympathy--for we could hardly help looking upon the ship as a friend
in need, hovering as it were over destruction without an arm being
stretched forth to save her, and it was not without a real feeling of pain
and sorrow that we witnessed her destruction.

About half-ebb we descended to the shore--it was covered as far as the eye
could reach with her ruin and materials; and one could almost imagine it
had been the destruction of a fleet. Thus ended the fate of _La Bonne
Esperance_ of Brest, and the occasional appearance of a solitary fragment
on the beach, was soon all that recalled her history to the remembrance of
the passers-by.

VYVYAN.

[1] The scenes and events in tins sketch are drawn from nature, and real
    occurrences on the southern coast.


       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS.


GOOD DEEDS.

  Wretched is he who thinks of doing ill.
    His evil deeds long to conceal and hide;
  For though the voice and tongues of men be still,
    By fowls and beasts his sins shall be descried.
  And God oft worketh by his secret will,
    That sin itself, the sinner so doth guide,
  That of its own accord without request,
    He makes his wicked doings manifest.

SIR J. HARRINGTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH.

  Death is a port whereby we reach to joy,
    Life is a lake that drowneth all in pain,
  Death is so near it ceaseth all annoy,
    Life is so leav'd that all it yields is vain;
  And as by life to bondage Man was brought,
  Even so likewise by death was freedom wrought.

EARL OF SURREY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEAUTY.

  Nought under Heaven so strongly doth allure
    The sense of man and all his mind possess,
  As Beauty's lovely bait that doth procure
    Great warriors oft their rigour to repress,
  And mighty hands forget their manliness.
    Driven with the power of an heart robbing eye,
  And wrapt in flowers of a golden tress,
    That can with melting pleasance mollify
    Their hard'ned hearts enur'd to blood and cruelty.

SPENSER.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEARNING.

  ----But that Learning in despite of fate
  Will mount aloft and enter Heaven's gate;
  And to the seat of Jove itself advance,
  Hermes had slept in Hell with Ignorance.
  Yet as a punishment they added this,
  That he and Poverty should always kiss.
  And to this day is every scholar poor,
  Gross gold from them runs headlong to the boor.

C. MARLOWE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FEELING.

  ----The feeling power which is life's root,
    Through every living part itself doth shed,
  By sinews which extend from head to foot,
    And like a net all over the body spread.
  Much like a subtle spider, which doth sit
    In middle of her web which spreadeth wide,
  If aught do touch the outmost thread of it,
    She feels it instantly on every side.

J. DAVIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

INJUSTICE.

  So foul a thing, O thou injustice art,
    That torment'st the doer and distrest;
  For when a man hath done a wicked part,
    O how he strives to excuse--to make the best;
  To shift the fault t' unburden his charg'd heart,
    And glad to find the least surmise of rest;
  And if he could make his, seem other's sin,
  O what repose, what ease he'd find therein.

DANIELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

RICHES.

  Vessels of brass oft handled brightly shine.
  What difference between the richest mine
  And basest earth, but use? for both not used
  Are of little worth; then treasure is abused,
  When misers keep it; being put to loan,
  In time it will return us two for one.

C. MARLOWE.


       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDIOT LOVER.

(DRAWN FROM LIFE.)

_(For the Mirror.)_


  "That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
  If with his tongue he cannot win a woman."


John Laconi was born in the romantic country of Switzerland. He was
educated tolerably well; he was a good musician, and could draw
excellently. He possessed a small, though independent fortune. However,
notwithstanding his advantages and acquirements, he proved, when he became
a lover, to be an idiot.

At a certain period of his life, he fell violently in love with a
beautiful young Swiss lady. She was considerably younger than our hero,
was much taller, and her elegant refinements rendered her a very desirable
object. John had a sister, to whom the young lady paid frequent friendly
visits, and upon such occasions, owing probably to that _mauvaise honte_,
with which he was cursed, he was usually absent from home. I will not
disgust my fair readers with a minute description of _all_ his absurdities;
one example, or so, shall suffice.

One fine evening, in the month of June, after spending the day with
Laconi's sister, the young lady prepared to return alone to her father's
_château_, at the distance of about a mile; and on this occasion, John
determined to give a specimen of his gallantry in escorting the fair one
home, resolving likewise to declare his passion in plain terms.
Accordingly, having put on his hat and cloak, and stationed himself at the
gate, he appeared as formidable as any doughty knight in the days of
romance, ready to offer his protection to some forlorn damsel. No sooner,
however, did the lady appear, than he became so confused as not to be able
to answer her greeting. She was also confused for a moment at his manner,
but immediately began her walk with much disgust and _nonchalance_; while
he, like a silly _valet de chambre_, followed behind, leaving his dear
mistress' questions unanswered, and gazing with a vacant stare at the moon.
At length, to the lady's infinite satisfaction, the white gate of her
father's _château_ appeared in view, and John, finding they had nearly
reached their destination, articulated, in a half suffocated tone, "I--I
beg pardon, ma--madam, I have been considering--." "You have, indeed,
Mr. John," quickly returned the smiling damsel, "but I think you might
have chosen another opportunity, more seasonable than the present, to
consider the moon!" To this retort, he said nothing, but looked extremely
foolish and ridiculous. However, when they had actually gained the gate of
the _château_, he boldly resolved to kiss his fair enslaver; but, after a
moment, his resolution failed, and his legs tottered under him. Without
hearing the lady's sweet "good night," as she tripped gaily from him, he
exclaimed, "Madam, can you love me?" This appeal was not heard by the
flying maiden, who hastily ascended the steps to her father's door, which
opened and concealed her lovely form from the sight of the amazed lover,
who had not courage sufficient to follow her.

Whether our idiot did not comprehend the behaviour of his mistress, I
cannot say; certain it is, he went home well contented with the success he
imagined he had gained towards winning her heart. But, in reality, she was
disgusted with his foolery, and ceased paying any more visits to her
female friend, in order to avoid the sight of so strange a lover.

John, however, was a kind of philosopher, and calmly sustained his love
misfortunes. A particular occurrence happened which will somewhat account
for this passive resignation. One evening, during a solitary walk, he saw
his identical mistress in company with a young French officer. He walked
sullenly home, wrote some verses on the inconstancy of women, drew from
recollection a portrait of the cruel fair, which he hung in his study, and
banished his former pretences. Report says, that he lived the remainder of
his days in a state of celibacy. G.W.N.


       *       *       *       *       *

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY.


Sincerely do we regret to announce the death of this great and good
man--the most celebrated philosopher of our times, who has done more for
the happiness of his species than any associated Academy in Europe. He
died at Geneva, May 29, aged 51. We shall endeavour to do justice to his
talents and amiable character, in a Memoir to be published at the close of
this volume of THE MIRROR--prefixed to which will be a fine Portrait of
the illustrious deceased.


       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *


DISCOVERY OF THE FATE OF LA PEROUSE.

_Abridged from the United Service Journal._


The fate of this celebrated French navigator, which for upwards of forty
years has remained enveloped in mystery, has at length been satisfactorily
ascertained, a result that is owing to the active and spirited exertions
of our gallant and enterprising countryman Captain Dillon.

It is a remarkable circumstance, that the discovery of the relics of La
Perouse, arose out of the massacre of the ship Hunter's crew, at the
Feejee Islands, in 1813.

In this unfortunate affair, fourteen persons in all, from the ship Hunter,
lost their lives. The two that escaped with Mr. Dillon, were William
Wilson and Martin Buchart, a Prussian, who resided for two years at Bough.
The latter entreated captain Robson to give him and his Bough wife a
passage to the first land at which he might arrive, as they would
certainly be sacrificed if they returned to the island. Having made
Tucopia on the 20th of September, Buchart, his wife, and a Lascar, were
put on shore, and the Hunter proceeded on her voyage to Canton.

On the 13th of May, 1826, while in command of the St. Patrick, bound from
Valparaiso to Pondicherry, captain Dillon came in sight of the island of
Tucopia. Prompted by curiosity, as well as regard for old companions in
danger, he lay to, anxious to ascertain whether the persons left there in
1813, were still alive. A canoe, in which was the Lascar, soon afterwards
put off from land and came alongside. This was immediately succeeded by
another canoe, containing Martin Buchart, the Prussian. They were both in
excellent health, and exceedingly rejoiced to see him. They informed him,
that the natives had treated them very kindly; and that no ship had
touched at the island from the time they were first landed, until about a
year previous to his arrival, when an English whaler visited them, and was
soon after followed by a second. The Lascar had an old silver sword-guard,
which he bartered for a few fishing-hooks. Captain Dillon inquired where
he had obtained it; the Prussian informed him, that on his arrival at the
island, he saw it in the possession of the natives, also several
chainplates belonging to a ship, a number of iron bolts, five axes, the
handle of a silver fork, a few knives, tea-cups, glass beads and bottles,
one silver spoon with a crest and a cipher, a sword, &c. As soon as he
became sufficiently acquainted with the language, he asked the natives how
they obtained those articles, as they said that the Hunter was the first
ship with which they had ever held communication. They replied, that about
two days' sail in their canoes to leeward, there was a large group of
islands, known generally by the name of Manicolo, to which they were in
the habit of making frequent voyages, and that they had procured these
articles from the inhabitants, who possessed many more of a similar
description.

Buchart proceeded to state, that the Tucopians asserted that a great
number of articles were on the Manicolo Islands in a state of preservation,
and such articles were evidently obtained from the wreck of a vessel.
About seven months before captain Dillon touched at Tucopia, a canoe had
returned from Manicolo, and brought away two large chain plates, and an
iron bolt, about four feet in length. He spoke with some of the crew of
the canoe which had last made the voyage to Manicolo. They told him that
there was abundance of iron materials still remaining on the island. Those
which Martin Buchart saw were much oxydized and worn. The only silver
spoon brought to Tucopia, as far as captain Dillon could learn, was beaten
out into a wire by Buchart, for the purpose of making rings and other
ornaments for the female islanders. Upon examining the sword-guard
minutely, captain Dillon discovered, or thought he discovered, the
initials of Perouse stamped upon it, which circumstance prompted him to be
more eager in his inquiries.

The Prussian said he had himself never made a trip to Manicolo with the
Tucopians, but the Lascar had gone once or twice. He positively affirmed,
that he had seen and conversed at Paiow, a native town, with the Europeans
who spoke the language of the islanders. They were old men, he said, who
told him that they had been wrecked several years ago in one of the ships,
the remnants of which they pointed out to him. They informed him also that
no vessel had touched at the islands since they had been there; that most
of their comrades were dead, but they had been so scattered among the
various islands, that they could not tell precisely how many of them were
still living.

On hearing so many circumstances all tending to confirm his suspicions,
from the moment he saw the silver sword-guard with the cipher, captain
Dillon determined to proceed as quickly as possible to the Manicolo
Islands, examine the wrecks himself, and, if practicable, bring off the
two men with whom the Lascar had spoken, and whom, he said, were Frenchmen.
For this purpose he begged the latter to accompany him, but as he was
married and comfortably settled on the island, neither promises nor
threats were of any avail, although captain Dillon offered to bring him
back to Tucopia. Martin Buchart, on the contrary, was tired of the savage
life he had led for the last fourteen years, and gladly acceded to the
wishes of captain Dillon, who after prevailing with a Tucopian also to
come on board, sailed for the island. Unfortunately, as the ship neared
the land, it fell a perfect calm, and continued so for seven days. At this
time the stock of dry provisions was nearly exhausted, and there was no
animal food to be procured on Tucopia. The crew lived principally on New
Zealand potatoes and bananas. The vessel became every day more leaky from
a long continuance at sea; and a person on board, who was interested in
the cargo, had, during captain Dillon's stay in the islands, shown himself
particularly discontented, and had frequently and warmly remonstrated at
what he considered an unnecessary and useless delay; for these reasons,
therefore, captain Dillon determined, though with the greatest reluctance,
to take advantage of a breeze which sprang up, continued his voyage, and
arrived at Bengal with much difficulty, his ship being in a very leaky
condition.

Unwilling to abandon his favourite object, captain Dillon now applied to
the Asiatic Society, and to the Bengal Government; and in consequence of
his representations, his suggestions were at length carried into effect.
He was appointed to the command of one of the Company's cruisers, of
sixteen guns and eighty-five men, called the Research; and on the 27th of
January, 1827, he sailed from Bengal, visited Van Dieman's Land, New South
Wales, New Zealand, the Friendly Islands, Ro-Thoma, or Granville Island of
the Pandora, Tucopia, and arrived at Manicolo on the 27th of September.
This island (Manicolo, or Vanicolo) is not the Mallicolo of captain Cook,
being situated only 118 miles to the leeward of Tucopia, in latitude 11
deg. 47 min., whilst the former lies in south latitude 16 deg. 15 min.

Captain Dillon personally visited the reefs on which the French ships are
ascertained to have struck and gone to pieces, according to the accounts
of the natives, from which the following particulars have been obtained of
that disastrous event:--"Many years ago two large ships arrived at the
islands; one anchored off the island of Whanoo, and the other off that of
Paiow, a little distance from each other. Soon after, and before they had
any communication with the natives, a heavy gale arose, and both vessels
were driven ashore. The ship off Whanoo grounded upon the rocks. The
natives came in crowds to the sea-shore, armed with clubs, spears, bows
and arrows, and discharged some arrows into the vessel; the crew in return
fired, and killed several of the islanders. The vessel continued to strike
violently against the rocks, and soon went to pieces. Some of the crew
took to their boats, but were driven on shore, and murdered by the natives;
others threw themselves into the sea, and such as reached the land, shared
the fate of their unfortunate companions, so that not a single soul
belonging to this vessel escaped alive."

"The ship which grounded on Paiow, was driven on a sandy beach, and the
natives came down and also discharged their arrows into her; but the crew
prudently did not resent the aggression, but held up axes, beads, and toys,
as peace-offerings, upon which the assailants desisted from farther
hostilities. As soon as the wind had moderated, an aged chief, in a canoe,
put off to the ship. He was received with caresses, accepted the presents
offered to him: and upon going ashore, pacified the islanders by
assurances that the ship's crew were peaceably inclined towards them. Upon
this, several natives went on board, and were all presented with toys. In
return, they supplied the crew with yams, fowls, bananas, cocoa-nuts, hogs,
&c. and confidence was established between them. The ship was now
abandoned, and the crew went on shore, bringing with them part of her
stores. Here they remained for some time, and built a small vessel with
the materials from the wreck. When it was ready to put to sea, as many as
could conveniently, embarked in her, being plentifully supplied with fresh
provisions by the islanders. The commander promised those who were left
behind, to return immediately with presents for the natives, and to bring
them off; but, as the little vessel was never afterwards heard of, the men
sought the protection of the neighbouring chiefs, with whom they lived.
Several muskets and some gunpowder had been left them by their comrades,
and by means of these, they proved of great service to their friends, in
encounters with the neighbouring islanders."

The natives of Manicolo are not cannibals; but when an enemy falls into
their power he is immediately killed, and his body is deposited in
sea-water, and kept there until the bones become perfectly bare. The
skeleton is then taken up, the bones of the extremities scraped and cut
into various forms, to point arrows and spears. Their arms consist of
heavy clubs, spears, and bows and arrows. They poison the latter with a
kind of reddish gum, extracted from a species of tree peculiar to the
island. When any one is struck by a poisoned arrow in any of the limbs,
the part is quickly cut out, and his life is sometimes saved; but if the
wound happens to be in the body, where it cannot be easily excised, he
resigns himself quietly to death without a murmur, though he frequently
lingers for four or five days in excruciating agony.

The Manicolans differ from almost all the other islanders in the South Sea;
they are as black as negroes, have short woolly hair, and resemble them in
their features. Their religion also is different; in every village in the
island there is a house dedicated to the Deity. At the principal chapel,
the skulls of all the people who were killed, belonging to the ship that
grounded at Whanoo, are still preserved. The natives of Tucopia,
unaccustomed to the sight of human bones, avoid, as much as possible, when
they visit the island, approaching the sacred house where the skulls are
deposited.


       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS_.

       *       *       *       *       *


WAVERLEY NOVELS.


The _new edition_, (of which _Waverley_ has just appeared,) is, without
exception, the handsomest book of the day, in editorship, literary and
graphic embellishment or typography. Perhaps little persuasion was
necessary for a second reading of so delightful a novel as _Waverley_, but
the author's piquant notes to the present edition would alike tempt the
matter-of-fact man, and the inveterate novel reader to "begin again." The
prefatory anecdotes to _Waverley_ are extremely interesting--and the
little autobiographic sketches are so many leaves from the life of the
ingenious author. We hope to introduce a few of the notes of the Series;
but content ourselves for the present with the following: being the
original of the legend of Mrs. Grizel Oldbuck:

