"Pooh! Pooh!" said the burgher, "never mind it a jot; such a thing
will happen to the best; on good old Ascension-day a man may readily
enough forget himself in his joy, and gulp down a thought too much.
A clergyman himself is no worse for it: I presume, my worthy sir, you
are a _Candidatus_.--But, with your leave, sir, I shall fill my pipe
with your tobacco; mine went out a little while ago."

This last sentence the burgher uttered while the student Anselmus was
about putting up his pipe and pouch; and now the burgher slowly and
deliberately cleaned his pipe, and began as slowly to fill it. Several
burgher girls had come up; they were speaking secretly with the woman
and one another, and tittering as they looked at Anselmus. The student
felt as if he were standing on prickly thorns and burning needles. No
sooner had he recovered his pipe and tobacco-pouch, than he darted off
at the height of his speed.

All the strange things he had seen were clean gone from his memory; he
simply recollected having babbled all manner of foolish stuff beneath
the elder-tree. This was the more shocking to him, as he entertained
from of old an inward horror against all soliloquists. It is Satan
that chatters out of them, said his Rector; and Anselmus shared
honestly his belief. To be regarded as a _Candidatus Theologiae_,
overtaken with drink on Ascension-day! The thought was intolerable.

He was just about turning up the Poplar Alley, by the Kosel Garden,
when a voice behind him called out: "Herr Anselmus! Herr Anselmus!
for the love of Heaven, whither are you running in such haste?" The
student paused, as if rooted to the ground; for he was convinced that
now some new mischance would befall him. The voice rose again: "Herr
Anselmus, come back, then; we are waiting for you here at the water!"
And now the student perceived that it was his friend Conrector
Paulmann's voice; he went back to the Elbe, and found the Conrector,
with his two daughters, as well as Registrator Heerbrand, all on the
point of stepping into their gondola. Conrector Paulmann invited the
student to go with them across the Elbe, and then to pass the evening
at his house in the Pirna suburb. The student Anselmus very gladly
accepted this proposal, thinking thereby to escape the malignant
destiny which had ruled over him all day.

Now, as they were crossing the river, it chanced that, on the farther
bank, near the Anton Garden, fireworks were just going off. Sputtering
and hissing, the rockets went aloft, and their blazing stars flew
to pieces in the air, scattering a thousand vague shoots and flashes
round them. The student Anselmus was sitting by the steersman, sunk in
deep thought; but when he noticed in the water the reflection of
these darting and wavering sparks and flames, he felt as if it was the
little golden snakes that were sporting in the flood. All the strange
things he had seen at the elder-tree again started forth into his
heart and thoughts; and again that unspeakable longing, that glowing
desire, laid hold of him here, which had before agitated his bosom in
painful spasms of rapture.

"Ah! is it you again, my little golden snakes? Sing now, O sing! In
your song let the kind, dear, dark-blue eyes again appear to me.--Ah?
are ye under the waves, then?"

So cried the student Anselmus, and at the same time made a violent
movement, as if he were for plunging from the gondola into the river.

"Is the Devil in you, sir?" exclaimed the steersman, and clutched
him by the coat-tail. The girls, who were sitting by him, shrieked
in terror, and fled to the other side of the gondola. Registrator
Heerbrand whispered something in Conrector Paulmann's ear, to
which the latter answered, but in so low a tone that Anselmus could
distinguish nothing but the words: "Such attacks--never noticed them
before?" Directly after this, Conrector Paulmann also rose, and then
sat down, with a certain earnest, grave, official mien, beside the
student Anselmus, taking his hand, and saying: "How are you, Herr
Anselmus?" The student Anselmus was like to lose his wits, for in his
mind there was a mad distraction, which he strove in vain to soothe.
He now saw plainly that what he had taken for the gleaming of the
golden snakes was nothing but the reflection of the fireworks in
Anton's Garden: but a feeling unexperienced till now, he himself knew
not whether it was rapture or pain, cramped his breast together; and
when the steersman struck through the water with his helm, so that the
waves, curling as in anger, gurgled and chafed, he heard in their din
a soft whispering: "Anselmus! Anselmus! seest thou not how we still
skim along before thee? Sisterkin looks at thee again; believe,
believe, believe in us!" And he thought he saw in the reflected light
three green-glowing streaks; but then, when he gazed, full of fond
sadness, into the water, to see whether these gentle eyes would not
again look up to him, he perceived too well that the shine proceeded
only from the windows in the neighboring houses. He was sitting mute
in his place, and inwardly battling with himself, when Conrector
Paulman repeated, with still greater emphasis: "How are you, Herr
Anselmus?"

With the most rueful tone, Anselmus replied: "Ah! Herr Conrector, if
you knew what strange things I have been dreaming, quite awake,
with open eyes, just now, under an elder-tree at the wall of Linke's
garden, you would not take it amiss of me that I am a little absent,
or so."

"Ey, ey, Herr Anselmus!" interrupted Conrector Paulmann, "I have
always taken you for a solid young man; but to dream, to dream with
your eyes wide open, and then, all at once, to start up for leaping
into the water! This, begging your pardon, is what only fools or
madmen could do."

The student Anselmus was deeply affected at his friend's hard saying;
then Veronica, Paulmann's eldest daughter, a most pretty blooming
girl of sixteen, addressed her father: "But, dear father, something
singular must have befallen Herr Anselmus; and perhaps he only thinks
he was awake, while he may really have been asleep, and so all
manner of wild stuff has come into his head and is still lying in his
thoughts."

"And, dearest Mademoiselle! Worthy Conrector!" interrupted Registrator
Heerbrand, "may one not, even when awake, sometimes sink into a sort
of dreaming state? I myself have had such fits. One afternoon, for
instance, during coffee, in a sort of brown study like this, in the
very moment of corporeal and spiritual digestion, the place where a
lost document was lying occurred to me, as if by inspiration; and last
night, no further gone, there came glorious large Latin WRIT tripping
out before my open eyes, in the very same way."

"Ah! most honored Registrator," answered Conrector Paulmann, "you
have always had a tendency to the _Poetica_; and thus one falls into
fantasies and romantic humors."

The student Anselmus, however, was particularly gratified that in this
most troublous situation, while in danger of being considered drunk or
crazy, any one should take his part; and though it was already fairly
dark, he thought he noticed, for the first time, that Veronica had
really very fine dark-blue eyes, and this too without remembering the
strange pair which he had looked at in the elder-bush. On the whole,
the adventure under the elder-bush had once more entirely vanished
from the thoughts of the student Anselmus; he felt himself at ease and
light of heart; nay, in the capriciousness of joy, he carried it so
far that he offered a helping hand to his fair advocate, Veronica, as
she was stepping from the gondola; and without more ado, as she put
her arm in his, escorted her home with so much dexterity and good luck
that he missed his footing only once, and this being the only wet spot
in the whole road, spattered Veronica's white gown only a very little
by the incident.

Conrector Paulmann failed not to observe this happy change in
the student Anselmus; he resumed his liking for him, and begged
forgiveness for the hard words which he had let fall before. "Yes,"
added he, "we have many examples to show that certain phantasms may
rise before a man and pester and plague him not a little; but this is
bodily disease, and leeches are good for it, if applied to the right
part, as a certain learned physician, now deceased, has directed." The
student Anselmus knew not whether he had been drunk, crazy, or sick;
but at all events the leeches seemed entirely superfluous, as these
supposed phantasms had utterly vanished, and the student himself was
growing happier and happier, the more he prospered in serving the
pretty Veronica with all sorts of dainty attentions.

As usual, after the frugal meal, came music; the student Anselmus had
to take his seat before the harpsichord, and Veronica accompanied
his playing with her pure clear voice. "Dear Mademoiselle," said
Registrator Heerbrand, "you have a voice like a crystal bell!"

"That she has not!" ejaculated the student Anselmus, he scarcely
knew how. "Crystal bells in elder-trees sound strangely, strangely!"
continued the student Anselmus, murmuring half aloud.

Veronica laid her hand on his shoulder, and asked: "What are you
saying now, Herr Anselmus?"

Instantly Anselmus recovered his cheerfulness, and began playing.
Conrector Paulmann gave a grim look at him; but Registrator Heerbrand
laid a music-leaf on the frame, and sang with ravishing grace one
of Bandmaster Graun's bravura airs. The student Anselmus accompanied
this, and much more; and a fantasy duet, which Veronica and he now
fingered, and Conrector Paulmann had himself composed, again brought
all into the gayest humor.

It was now quite late, and Registrator Heerbrand was taking up his hat
and stick, when Conrector Paulmann went up to him with a mysterious
air, and said: "Hem!--Would not you, honored Registrator, mention to
the good Herr Anselmus himself--Hem! what we were speaking of before?"

"With all the pleasure in nature," said Registrator Heerbrand; and
after all were seated in a circle, he began, without farther preamble,
as follows:

"In this city is an old, strange, remarkable man; people say he
follows all manner of secret sciences; but as there are no such
sciences, I rather take him for an antiquary, and, along with
this, for an experimental chemist. I mean no other than our Privy
Archivarius Lindhorst. He lives, as you know, by himself, in his old
sequestered house; and when disengaged from his office he is to
be found in his library, or in his chemical laboratory, to which,
however, he admits no stranger. Besides many curious books, he
possesses a number of manuscripts, partly Arabic, Coptic, and some of
them in strange characters which belong not to any known tongue. These
he wishes to have copied properly; and for this purpose he requires
a man who can draw with the pen, and so transfer these marks to
parchment, in Indian ink, with the highest strictness and fidelity.
The work is carried on in a separate chamber of his house, under his
own oversight; and besides free board during the time of business, he
pays his man a specie-dollar, daily, and promises a handsome present
when the copying is rightly finished. The hours of work are from
twelve to six. From three to four, you take rest and dinner.

"Herr Archivarius Lindhorst having in vain tried one or two young
people for copying these manuscripts, has at last applied to me to
find him an expert drawer; and so I have been thinking of you,
dear Herr Anselmus, for I know that you both write very neatly, and
likewise draw with the pen to great perfection. Now, if in these bad
times, and till your future establishment, you would like to earn a
speziesthaler in the day, and this present over and above, you can go
tomorrow precisely at noon, and call upon the Archivarius, whose house
no doubt you know. But be on your guard against any blot! If such a
thing falls on your copy, you must begin it again; if it falls on the
original, the Archivarius will think nothing of throwing you out of
the window, for he is a hot-tempered gentleman."

The student Anselmus was filled with joy at Registrator Heerbrand's
proposal; for not only could the student write well and draw well
with the pen, but this copying with laborious calligraphic pains was
a thing he delighted in beyond aught else. So he thanked his patron in
the most grateful terms, and promised not to fail at noon tomorrow.

All night the student Anselmus saw nothing but clear speziesthalers,
and heard nothing but their lovely clink. Who could blame the poor
youth, cheated of so many hopes by capricious destiny, obliged to take
counsel about every farthing, and to forego so many joys which a young
heart requires! Early in the morning he brought out his black-lead
pencils, his crow-quills, his Indian ink; for better materials,
thought he, the Archivarius can find nowhere. Above all, he mustered
and arranged his calligraphic masterpieces and his drawings, to show
them to the Archivarius, in proof of his ability to do what he wished.
All prospered with the student; a peculiar happy star seemed to be
presiding over him; his neckcloth sat right at the very first trial;
no tack burst; no loop gave way in his black silk stockings; his hat
did not once fall to the dust after he had trimmed it. In a word,
precisely at half-past eleven, the student Anselmus, in his pike-gray
frock, and black satin lower habiliments, with a roll of calligraphics
and pen-drawings in his pocket, was standing in the Schlossgasse, in
Conradi's shop, and drinking one--two glasses of the best stomachic
liqueur; for here, thought he, slapping on the still empty pocket, for
here speziesthalers will be clinking soon.

Notwithstanding the distance of the solitary street where the
Archivarius Lindhorst's very ancient residence lay, the student
Anselmus was at the front door before the stroke of twelve. He stood
here, and was looking at the large fine bronze knocker; but now when,
as the last stroke tingled through the air with loud clang from the
steeple-clock of the Kreuzkirche, he lifted his hand to grasp this
same knocker, the metal visage twisted itself, with horrid rolling
of its blue-gleaming eyes, into a grinning smile. Alas, it was the
Apple-woman of the Black Gate! The pointed teeth gnashed together in
the loose jaws, and in their chattering through the skinny lips
there was a growl of: "Thou fool, fool, fool!--Wait, wait!--Why
didst run!--Fool!" Horror-struck, the student Anselmus flew back;
he clutched at the door-post, but his hand caught the bell-rope and
pulled it, and in piercing discords it rung stronger and stronger, and
through the whole empty house the echo repeated, as in mockery: "To
the crystal fall!" An unearthly terror seized the student Anselmus,
and quivered through all his limbs. The bell-rope lengthened downward,
and became a white, transparent, gigantic serpent, which encircled and
crushed him, and girded him straiter and straiter in its coils, till
his brittle, paralyzed limbs went crashing in pieces, and the blood
spouted from his veins, penetrating into the transparent body of the
serpent, and dyeing it red. "Kill me! Kill me!" he would have cried,
in his horrible agony; but the cry was only a stifled gurgle in his
throat. The serpent lifted its head, and laid its long peaked tongue
of glowing brass on the breast of Anselmus; then a fierce pang
suddenly cut asunder the artery of life, and thought fled away
from him. On returning to his senses, he was lying on his own poor
truckle-bed; Conrector Paulmann was standing before him, and saying:
"For Heaven's sake, what mad stuff is this, dear Herr Anselmus?"


SIXTH VIGIL

    Archivarius Lindhorst's Garden, with some Mocking birds. The Golden
    Pot. English current-hand. Pot-hooks. The Prince of the Spirits.


"It may be, after all," said the student Anselmus to himself, "that
the superfine, strong, stomachic liqueur, which I took somewhat freely
at Monsieur Conradi's, might really be the cause of all these shocking
phantasms which so tortured me at Archivarius Lindhorst's door.
Therefore, I will go quite sober today, and so bid defiance to
whatever further mischief may assail me." On this occasion, as before,
when equipping himself for his first call on Archivarius Lindhorst,
the student Anselmus put his pen-drawings and calligraphic
masterpieces, his bars of Indian ink, and his well-pointed crow-pens,
into his pockets; and was just turning to go out, when his eye lighted
on the vial with the yellow liqueur, which he had received from
Archivarius Lindhorst. All the strange adventures he had met with
again rose on his mind in glowing colors; and a nameless emotion
of rapture and pain thrilled through his breast. Involuntarily he
exclaimed, with a most piteous voice: "Ah, am I not going to
the Archivarius solely for a sight of thee, thou gentle lovely
Serpentina!" At that moment he felt as if Serpentina's love might be
the prize of some laborious perilous task which he had to undertake,
and as if this task were no other than the copying of the Lindhorst
manuscripts. That at his very entrance into the house, or, more
properly, before his entrance, all manner of mysterious things might
happen, as of late, was no more than he anticipated. He thought no
more of Conradi's strong water, but hastily put the vial of liqueur
in his waistcoat-pocket that he might act strictly by the Archivarius'
directions, should the bronzed Apple-woman again take it upon her to
make faces at him.

And did not the hawk-nose actually peak itself, did not the cat-eyes
actually glare from the knocker, as he raised his hand to it, at the
stroke of twelve? But now, without further ceremony, he dribbled his
liqueur into the pestilent visage; and it folded and molded itself,
that instant, down to a glittering bowl-round knocker. The door went
up; the bells sounded beautifully over all the house: "Klingling,
youngling, in, in, spring, spring, klingling." In good heart he
mounted the fine broad stair and feasted on the odors of some strange
perfumery that was floating through the house. In doubt, he paused on
the lobby; for he knew not at which of these many fine doors he was to
knock. But Archivarius Lindhorst, in a white damask nightgown, stepped
forth to him, and said: "Well, it is a real pleasure to me, Herr
Anselmus, that you have kept your word at last. Come this way, if you
please; I must take you straight into the Laboratory;" and with this
he stepped rapidly through the lobby, and opened a little side-door
which led into a long passage. Anselmus walked on in high spirits,
behind the Archivarius; they passed from this corridor into a hall,
or rather into a lordly green-house: for on both sides, up to the
ceiling, stood all manner of rare wondrous flowers, nay, great trees
with strangely-formed leaves and blossoms. A magic dazzling light
shone over the whole, though you could not discover whence it came,
for no window whatever was to be seen. As the student Anselmus looked
in through the bushes and trees, long avenues appeared to open
in remote distance. In the deep shade of thick cypress groves lay
glittering marble fountains, out of which rose wondrous figures,
spouting crystal jets that fell with pattering spray into gleaming
lily-cups; strange voices cooed and rustled through the wood of
curious trees; and sweetest perfumes streamed up and down.

The Archivarius had vanished, and Anselmus saw nothing but a huge bush
of glowing fire-lilies before him. Intoxicated with the sight and the
fine odors of this fairy-garden, Anselmus stood fixed to the spot.
Then began on all sides of him a giggling and laughing; and light
little voices railed and mocked him: "Herr Studiosus! Herr Studiosus!
Where are you coming from? Why are you dressed so bravely, Herr
Anselmus? Will you chat with us for a minute, how grandmammy sat
squatting down upon the egg, and young master got a stain on his
Sunday waistcoat?--Can you play the new tune, now, which you learned
from Daddy Cocka-doodle, Herr Anselmus?--You look very fine in your
glass periwig, and post-paper boots." So cried and chattered and
sniggered the little voices, out of every corner, nay, close by the
student himself, who but now observed that all sorts of party-colored
birds were fluttering above him and jeering him in hearty laughter.
At that moment the bush of fire-lilies advanced toward him; and he
perceived that it was Archivarius Lindhorst, whose flowered nightgown,
glittering in red and yellow, had so far deceived his eyes.

"I beg your pardon, worthy Herr Anselmus," said the Archivarius, "for
leaving you alone; I wished, in passing, to take a peep at my fine
cactus, which is to blossom tonight. But how like you my little
house-garden?"

"Ah, Heaven! Immeasurably pretty it is, most valued Herr Archivarius,"
replied the student; "but those party-colored birds have been
bantering me a little."

"What wishy-washy is this?" cried the Archivarius angrily into the
bushes. Then a huge gray parrot came fluttering out, and perched
itself beside the Archivarius on a myrtle-bough; and looking at him
with an uncommon earnestness and gravity through a pair of spectacles
that stuck on his hooked bill, it shrilled out: "Don't take it amiss,
Herr Archivarius; my wild boys have been a little free or so; but the
Herr Studiosus has himself to blame in the matter, for----"

"Hush! hush!" interrupted Archivarius Lindhorst; "I know the varlets;
but thou must keep them in better discipline, my friend!--Now, come
along, Herr Anselmus."

And the Archivarius again stepped forth, through many a
strangely-decorated chamber; so that the student Anselmus, in
following him, could scarcely give a glance at all the glittering
wondrous furniture, and other unknown things, with which the whole of
them were filled. At last they entered a large apartment, where the
Archivarius, casting his eyes aloft, stood still; and Anselmus
got time to feast himself on the glorious sight which the simple
decoration of this hall afforded. Jutting from the azure-colored walls
rose gold-bronze trunks of high palm-trees, which wove their colossal
leaves, glittering like bright emeralds, into a ceiling far up; in the
middle of the chamber, and resting on three Egyptian lions, cast
out of dark bronze, lay a porphyry plate; and on this stood a simple
Golden Pot, from which, so soon as he beheld it, Anselmus could not
turn away an eye. It was as if, in a thousand gleaming reflections,
all sorts of shapes were sporting on the bright polished gold; often
he perceived his own form, with arms stretched out in longing--ah!
beneath the elder-bush--and Serpentina was winding and shooting up and
down, and again looking at him with her kind eyes. Anselmus was beside
himself with frantic rapture.

"Serpentina! Serpentina!" cried he aloud; and Archivarius Lindhorst
whirled round abruptly, and said: "How now, worthy Herr Anselmus? If
I mistake not, you were pleased to call for my daughter; she is way
in the other side of the house at present, and indeed just taking her
lesson on the harpsichord. Let us go over."

Anselmus, scarcely knowing what he did, followed his conductor; he saw
or heard nothing more, till Archivarius Lindhorst suddenly grasped his
hand, and said: "Here is the place!" Anselmus awoke as from a dream,
and now perceived that he was in a high room, all lined on every side
with book-shelves, and nowise differing from a common library and
study. In the middle stood a large writing-table, with a stuffed
arm-chair before it. "This," said Archivarius Lindhorst, "is your
work-room for the present: whether you may work, some other time, in
the blue library, also where you so suddenly called out my daughter's
name, I yet know not. But now I could wish to convince myself of your
ability to execute this task appointed to you, in the way I wish it
and need it." The student here gathered full courage; and not without
internal self-complacence in the certainty of highly gratifying
Archivarius Lindhorst through his extraordinary talents, pulled out
his drawings and specimens of penmanship from his pocket. But no
sooner had the Archivarius cast his eye on the first leaf, a piece of
writing in the finest English style, than he smiled very oddly, and
shook his head. These motions he repeated at every following leaf, so
that the student Anselmus felt the blood mounting to his face; and at
last, when the smile became quite sarcastic and contemptuous, he
broke out in downright vexation: "The Herr Archivarius does not seem
contented with my poor talents."

"Dear Herr Anselmus," said Archivarius Lindhorst, "you have indeed
fine capacities for the art of calligraphy; but, in the meanwhile, it
is clear enough, I must reckon more on your diligence and good-will
than on your capacity."

The student Anselmus spoke largely of his often-acknowledged
perfection in this art, of his fine Chinese ink, and most select
crow-quills. But Archivarius Lindhorst handed him the English sheet,
and said: "Be judge yourself!" Anselmus felt as if struck by a
thunderbolt, to see his handwriting look so: it was miserable, beyond
measure. There was no rounding in the turns, no hair-stroke where it
should be; no proportion between the capital and single letters; nay,
villainous school-boy pot-hooks often spoiled the best lines. "And
then," continued Archivarius Lindhorst, "your ink will not stand." He
dipped his finger in a glass of water, and as he just skimmed it over
the lines they vanished without vestige. The student Anselmus felt as
if some monster were throttling him; he could not utter a word. There
stood he with the unlucky sheet in his hand; but Archivarius Lindhorst
laughed aloud, and said: "Never mind it, dearest Herr Anselmus; what
you could not accomplish before, will perhaps do better here. At any
rate, you shall have better materials than you have been accustomed
to. Begin, in Heaven's name!"

From a locked press Archivarius Lindhorst now brought out a black
fluid substance, which diffused a most peculiar odor; also pens,
sharply pointed and of strange color, together with a sheet of
especial whiteness and smoothness; then at last an Arabic manuscript;
and as Anselmus sat down to work, the Archivarius left the room. The
student Anselmus had often before copied Arabic manuscripts; the first
problem, therefore, seemed to him not so very difficult to solve. "How
these pot-hooks came into my fine English current-hand, Heaven and
Archivarius Lindhorst know best," said he; "but that they are not from
_my_ hand, I will testify to the death!" At every new word that stood
fair and perfect on the parchment, his courage increased, and with it
his adroitness. In truth, these pens wrote exquisitely well; and the
mysterious ink flowed pliantly and black as jet, on the bright white
parchment. And as he worked along so diligently and with such strained
attention, he began to feel more and more at home in the solitary
room; and already he had quite fitted himself into his task, which he
now hoped to finish well, when at the stroke of three the Archivarius
called him into the side-room to a savory dinner. At table,
Archivarius Lindhorst was in special gaiety of heart; he inquired
about the student Anselmus' friends, Conrector Paulmann, and
Registrator Heerbrand, and of the latter especially he had a store
of merry anecdotes to tell. The good old Rhenish was particularly
grateful to the student Anselmus, and made him more talkative than he
was wont to be. At the stroke of four he rose to resume his labor; and
this punctuality appeared to please the Archivarius.

If the copying of these Arabic manuscripts had prospered in his hands
before dinner, the task now went forward much better; nay, he could
not himself comprehend the rapidity and ease with which he succeeded
in transcribing the twisted strokes of this foreign character. But
it was as if, in his inmost soul, a voice were whispering in audible
words: "Ah! couldst thou accomplish it wert thou not thinking of
_her_, didst thou not believe in _her_ and in her love?" Then there
floated whispers, as in low, low, waving crystal tones, through the
room: "I am near, near, near! I help thee; be bold, be steadfast, dear
Anselmus! I toil with thee, that thou mayest be mine!" And as, in
the fulness of secret rapture, he caught these sounds, the unknown
characters grew clearer and clearer to him; he scarcely required
to look on the original at all; nay, it was as if the letters were
already standing in pale ink on the parchment, and he had nothing more
to do than mark them black. So did he labor on, encompassed with dear,
consoling tones as with soft, sweet breath, till the clock struck six,
and Archivarius Lindhorst entered the room. He came forward to
the table, with a singular smile; Anselmus rose in silence; the
Archivarius still looked at him, with that mocking smile; but no
sooner had he glanced over the copy than the smile passed into deep,
solemn earnestness, which every feature of his face adapted itself to
express. He seemed no longer the same. His eyes, which usually gleamed
with sparkling fire, now looked with unutterable mildness at Anselmus;
a soft red tinted the pale cheeks; and instead of the irony which at
other times compressed the mouth, the softly-curved, graceful lips now
seemed to be opening for wise and soul-persuading speech. The whole
form was higher, statelier; the wide nightgown spread itself like a
royal mantle in broad folds over his breast and shoulders; and through
the white locks, which lay on his high open brow, there was wound a
thin band of gold.

"Young man," began the Archivarius in solemn tone, "before thou
thoughtest of it, I knew thee, and all the secret relations which
bind thee to the dearest and holiest I have on earth! Serpentina loves
thee; a singular destiny, whose fateful threads were spun by hostile
powers, is fulfilled should she be thine and thou obtain, as an
essential dowry, the Golden Pot, which of right belongs to her. But
only from effort and contest can thy happiness in the higher life
arise; hostile Principles assail thee; and only the interior force
with which thou shalt withstand these assaults can save thee from
disgrace and ruin. Whilst laboring here thou art passing your
apprenticeship; belief and full knowledge will lead thee to the near
goal, if thou but hold fast what thou hast well begun. Bear _her_
always and truly in thy thoughts, her who loves thee; then shalt thou
see the marvels of the Golden Pot, and be happy forevermore. Fare
thee well! Archivarius Lindhorst expects thee tomorrow at noon in
thy cabinet. Fare thee well!" With these words Archivarius Lindhorst
softly pushed the student Anselmus out of the door, which he then
locked; and Anselmus found himself in the chamber where he had dined,
the single door of which led out to the lobby.

Altogether stupified with these strange phenomena, the student
Anselmus stood lingering at the street-door; he heard a window open
above him, and looked up: it was Archivarius Lindhorst, quite the
old man again, in his light-gray gown, as he usually appeared. The
Archivarius called to him: "Hey, worthy Herr Anselmus, what are
you studying over there? Tush, the Arabic is still in your head.
My compliments to Herr Conrector Paulmann, if you see him; and come
tomorrow precisely at noon. The fee for this day is lying in your
right waistcoat-pocket." The student Anselmus actually found the clear
speziesthaler in the pocket indicated; but he took no joy in it. "What
is to come of all this," said he to himself, "I know not; but if it
be some mad delusion and conjuring work that has laid hold of me, the
dear Serpentina still lives and moves in my inward heart, and rather
than leave her I will perish altogether; for I know that the thought
in me is eternal, and no hostile Principle can take it from me; and
what else is this thought but Serpentina's love?"


EIGHTH VIGIL

    The Library of the Palm-trees. Fortunes of an unhappy Salamander.
    How the Black Quill caressed a Parsnip, and Registrator Heerbrand
    was much overcome with Liqueur.


The student Anselmus had now worked several days with Archivarius
Lindhorst; these working hours were for him the happiest of his life;
ever encircled with the lovely tone of Serpentina's encouraging words,
he was filled and overflowed with a pure delight, which often rose
to highest rapture. Every strait, every little care of his needy
existence, had vanished from his thoughts; and in the new life which
had risen on him as in serene sunny splendor, he comprehended all
the wonders of a higher world, which before had filled him with
astonishment, nay, with dread. His copying proceeded rapidly and
lightly, for he felt more and more as if he were writing characters
long known to him; and he scarcely needed to cast his eye upon the
manuscript, while copying it all with the greatest exactness.

Except at the hour of dinner, Archivarius Lindhorst seldom made his
appearance, and this always precisely at the moment when Anselmus
had finished the last letter of some manuscript; then the Archivarius
would hand him another, and, directly after, leave him without
uttering a word, having first stirred the ink with a little black rod
and changed the old pens with new sharp-pointed ones. One day, when
Anselmus, at the stroke of twelve, had as usual mounted the stairs, he
found the door through which he commonly entered, standing locked; and
Archivarius Lindhorst came forward from the other side, dressed in his
strange flower-figured nightgown. He called aloud: "Today come this
way, dear Anselmus; for we must to the chamber where Bhogovotgita's
masters are waiting for us."

He stepped along the corridor, and led Anselmus through the same
chambers and halls as at the first visit. The student Anselmus again
felt astonished at the marvelous beauty of the garden; but he now
perceived that many of the strange flowers, hanging on the dark
bushes, were in truth insects gleaming with lordly colors, hovering
up and down with their little wings as they danced and whirled in
clusters, caressing one another with their antennae. On the other hand
again, the rose and azure-colored birds were odoriferous flowers;
and the perfume which they scattered mounted from their cups in low,
lovely tones, which, with the gurgling of distant fountains, and the
sighing of the high shrubs and trees, melted into mysterious harmonies
of a deep unutterable longing. The mocking-birds, which had so jeered
and flouted him before, were again fluttering to and fro over his
head and crying incessantly with their sharp, small voices: "Herr
Studiosus, Herr Studiosus, don't be in such a hurry! Don't peep into
the clouds so! You may fall on your nose--He, he! Herr Studiosus, put
your powder-mantle on; cousin Screech-Owl will frizzle your toupee."
And so it went along, in all manner of stupid chatter, till Anselmus
left the garden.

Archivarius Lindhorst at last stepped into the azure chamber; the
porphyry, with the Golden Pot, was gone; instead of it, in the middle
of the room, stood a table overhung with violet-colored satin, upon
which lay the writing-materials already known to Anselmus; and a
stuffed arm-chair, covered with the same sort of cloth, was placed
before it.

"Dear Herr Anselmus," said Archivarius Lindhorst, "you have now copied
me a number of manuscripts, rapidly and correctly, to my no small
contentment: you have gained my confidence; but the hardest is yet to
come; and that is the transcribing or rather painting of certain works
after the original, composed of peculiar signs; I keep them in this
room, and they can be copied only on the spot. You will, therefore, in
future, work here; but I must recommend to you the greatest foresight
and attention; a false stroke, or, which may Heaven forefend, a blot
let fall on the original, will plunge you into misfortune."

Anselmus observed that from the golden trunks of the palm-trees,
little emerald leaves projected: one of these leaves the Archivarius
took hold of; and Anselmus could not but perceive that the leaf was in
truth a roll of parchment, which the Archivarius unfolded and spread
out before the student on the table. Anselmus wondered not a little
at these strangely intertwisted characters; and as he looked over
the many points, strokes, dashes, and twirls in the manuscript, which
seemed to represent either plants or mosses or animal figures, he
almost lost hope of ever copying it. He fell into deep thought on the
subject.

"Be of courage, young man!" cried the Archivarius; "if thou hast
sterling faith and true love, Serpentina will help thee."

His voice sounded like ringing metal; and as Anselmus looked up in
utter terror, Archivarius Lindhorst was standing before him in the
kingly form, which, during the first visit, he had assumed in the
library. Anselmus felt as if in his deep reverence he could not
but sink on his knee; but the Archivarius stepped up the trunk of a
palm-tree, and vanished aloft among the emerald leaves. The student
Anselmus understood that the Prince of the Spirits had been speaking
with him, and was now gone up to his study; perhaps intending to
advise with the beams which some of the planets had dispatched to him
as envoys, on what was to become of Anselmus and Serpentina.

"It may be too," thought he further, "that he is expecting news from
the Springs of the Nile; or that some magician from Lapland is paying
him a visit; me it behooves to set diligently about my task." And
with this, he began studying the foreign characters in the roll of
parchment.

The strange music of the garden sounded over to him and encircled him
with sweet lovely odors; the mocking-birds too he still heard chirping
and twittering, but could not distinguish their words--a thing which
greatly pleased him. At times also it was as if the emerald leaves of
the palm-trees were rustling, and as if the clear crystal tones, which
Anselmus on that fateful Ascension-day had heard under the elder-bush,
were beaming and flitting through the room. Wonderfully strengthened
by this shining and tinkling, the student Anselmus directed his eyes
and thoughts more and more intensely on the superscription of the
parchment roll; and ere long he felt, as it were from his inmost soul,
that the characters could denote nothing else than these words: _Of
the marriage of the Salamander with the green Snake_. Then resounded
a louder triphony of clear crystal bells; "Anselmus! dear Anselmus!"
floated to him from the leaves; and, O wonder! on the trunk of the
palm-tree the green Snake came winding down.

"Serpentina! Serpentina!" cried Anselmus, in the madness of highest
rapture; for as he gazed more earnestly, it was in truth a lovely,
glorious maiden that, looking at him with those dark-blue eyes, full
of inexpressible longing, as they lived in his heart, was hovering
down to meet him. The leaves seemed to jut out and expand; on every
hand were prickles sprouting from the trunks; but Serpentina twisted
and wound herself deftly through them; and so drew her fluttering
robe, framing her as if in changeful colors, along with her, that,
playing round the dainty form, it nowhere caught on the projecting
points and prickles of the palm-trees. She sat down by Anselmus on the
same chair, clasping him with her arm, and pressing him toward her,
so that he felt the breath which came from her lips, and the electric
warmth of her frame.

"Dear Anselmus!" began Serpentina, "thou shalt now soon be wholly
mine; by thy faith, by thy Love thou shalt obtain me, and I will bring
thee the Golden Pot, which shall make us both happy forevermore."

"O thou kind, lovely Serpentina!" said Anselmus. "If I have but thee,
what care I for all else! If thou art but mine, I will joyfully give
in to all the wondrous mysteries that have beset me ever since the
moment when I first saw thee."

"I know," continued Serpentina, "that the strange and mysterious
things with which my father, often merely in the sport of his humor,
has surrounded thee, have raised horror and dread in thy mind; but
now, I hope, it shall be so no more; for I came now only to tell thee,
dear Anselmus, from the bottom of my heart and soul, all and sundry to
a tittle that thou needest to know for understanding my father, and so
learn the real condition of both of us."

Anselmus felt as if he were so wholly clasped and encircled by the
gentle, lovely form, that only with her could he move and stir, and
as if it were but the beating of her pulse that throbbed through
his nerves and fibres; he listened to each one of her words which
penetrated his inmost heart, and, like a burning ray, kindled in him
the rapture of Heaven. He had put his arm round that daintier than
dainty waist; but the changeful glistering cloth of her robe was
so smooth and slippery that it seemed to him as if she could at any
moment wind herself from his arms, and glide away. He trembled at the
thought.

"Ah, do not leave me, sweet Serpentina!" cried he involuntarily; "thou
alone art my life."

"Not now," said Serpentina, "till I have told thee all that in thy
love of me thou canst comprehend."

"Know then, dearest, that my father is sprung from the wondrous race
of the Salamanders; and that I owe my existence to his love for the
green Snake. In primeval times, in the Fairyland Atlantis, the potent
Spirit-prince Phosphorus bore rule; and to him the Salamanders, and
other Spirits of the Elements, were plighted. Once on a time, the
Salamander, whom he loved before all others (it was my father),
chanced to be walking in the stately garden, which Phosphorus' mother
had decked in the lordliest fashion with her best gifts; and the
Salamander heard a tall Lily singing in low tones: `Press down thy
little eyelids, till my Lover, the Morning-wind, awake thee.' He
stepped toward it: touched by his glowing breath, the Lily opened her
leaves; and he saw the Lily's daughter, the green Snake, lying asleep
in the hollow of the flower. Then was the Salamander inflamed with
warm love for the fair Snake; and he carried her away from the Lily,
whose perfumes in nameless lamentation vainly called for her beloved
daughter throughout all the garden. For the Salamander had borne her
into the palace of Phosphorus, and was there beseeching him: 'Wed me
with my beloved, for she shall be mine forevermore.' 'Madman, what
askest thou!' said the Prince of the Spirits; 'know that once the Lily
was my mistress, and bore rule with me; but the Spark, which I cast
into her, threatened to annihilate the fair Lily; and only my victory
over the black Dragon, whom now the Spirits of the Earth hold in
fetters, maintains her, that her leaves continue strong enough to
inclose this Spark and preserve it within them. But when thou claspest
the green Snake, thy fire will consume her frame; and a new Being,
rapidly arising from her dust, will soar away and leave thee.'

"The Salamander heeded not the warning of the Spirit-prince: full of
longing ardor he folded the green Snake in his arms; she crumbled into
ashes; a winged Being, born from her dust, soared away through the
sky. Then the madness of desperation caught the Salamander, and he ran
through the garden, throwing forth fire and flames, and wasted it
in his wild fury, till its fairest flowers and blossoms hung down,
blackened and scathed, and their lamentation filled the air. The
indignant Prince of the Spirits, in his wrath, laid hold of the
Salamander, and said: 'Thy fire has burnt out, thy flames are
extinguished, thy rays darkened; sink down to the Spirits of the
Earth; let these mock and jeer thee, and keep thee captive, till the
Fire-element shall again kindle and beam up with thee as with a new
being from the Earth.' The poor Salamander sank down extinguished;
but now the testy old Earth-spirit, who was Phosphorus' gardener,
came forth and said: 'Master! who has greater cause to complain of the
Salamander than I? Had not all the fair flowers, which he has burnt,
been decorated with my gayest metals; had I not stoutly nursed and
tended their seeds, and spent many a fair hue on their leaves? And yet
I must pity the poor Salamander; for it was but love, in which thou, O
Master, hast full often been entangled, that drove him to despair
and made him desolate the garden. Remit him the too harsh
punishment!'--'His fire is for the present extinguished,' said the
Prince of the Spirits; 'but in the hapless time, when the Speech of
Nature shall no longer be intelligible to degenerate man; when the
Spirits of the Elements, banished into their own regions, shall speak
to him only from afar, in faint, spent echoes; when, displaced from
the harmonious circle, an infinite longing alone shall give him
tidings of the Land of Marvels, which he once might inhabit while
Faith and Love still dwelt in his soul--in this hapless time the fire
of the Salamander shall again kindle; but only to manhood shall he
be permitted to rise, and, entering wholly into man's necessitous
existence, he shall learn to endure its wants and oppressions. Yet not
only shall the remembrance of his first state continue with him, but
he shall again rise into the sacred harmony of all Nature; he shall
understand its wonders, and the power of his fellow-spirits shall
stand at his behest. Then, too, in a Lily-bush, shall he find the
green Snake again, and the fruit of his marriage with her shall be
three daughters, which, to men, shall appear in the form of their
mother. In the spring season these shall disport them in the dark
Elder-bush, and sound with their lovely crystal voices. And then if,
in that needy and mean age of inward obduracy, there shall be found
a youth who understands their song; nay, if one of the little Snakes
look at him with her kind eyes; if the look awaken in him forecastings
of the distant, wondrous Land, to which, having cast away the burden
of the Common, he can courageously soar; if, with love to the Snake,
there rise in him belief in the Wonders of Nature, nay, in his own
existence amid these Wonders--then the Snake shall be his. But not
till three youths of this sort have been found and wedded to the three
daughters, may the Salamander cast away his heavy burden, and return
to his brothers.'--'Permit me, Master,' said the Earth-spirit, 'to
make these three daughters a present, which may glorify their life
with the husbands they shall find. Let each of them receive from me
a Pot, of the fairest metal which I have; I will polish it with
beams borrowed from the diamond; in its glitter shall our Kingdom
of Wonders, as it now exists in the Harmony of universal Nature, be
mirrored in glorious dazzling reflection; and from its interior, on
the day of marriage, shall spring forth a Fire-lily, whose eternal
blossom shall encircle the youth that is found worthy, with sweet
wafting odors. Soon too shall he learn its speech, and understand
the wonders of our kingdom, and dwell with his beloved in Atlantis
itself.'

"Thou perceivest well, dear Anselmus, that the Salamander of whom I
speak is no other than my father. Spite of his higher nature, he was
forced to subject himself to the paltriest afflictions of common life;
and hence, indeed, often comes the mischievous humor with which he
vexes many. He has told me now and then, that, for the inward make of
mind, which the Spirit-prince Phosphorus required as a condition of
marriage with me and my sisters, men have a name at present, which,
in truth, they frequently enough misapply: they call it a childlike
poetic mind. This mind, he says, is often found in youths, who, by
reason of their high simplicity of manners and their total want of
what is called knowledge of the world, are mocked by the populace. Ah,
dear Anselmus, beneath the Elder-bush thou understoodest my song, my
look; thou lovest the green Snake, thou believest in me, and wilt be
mine forevermore! The fair Lily will bloom forth from the Golden
Pot; and we shall dwell, happy, and united, and blessed, in Atlantis
together!

"Yet I must not hide from thee that in its deadly battle with the
Salamanders and Spirits of the Earth, the black Dragon burst from
their grasp and hurried off through the air. Phosphorus, indeed,
again holds him in fetters; but from the black Quills, which, in the
struggle, rained down on the ground, there sprung up hostile Spirits,
which on all hands set themselves against the Salamanders and Spirits
of the Earth. That woman who so hates thee, dear Anselmus, and who,
as my father knows full well, is striving for possession of the
Golden Pot; that woman owes her existence to the love of such a Quill
(plucked in battle from the Dragon's wing) for a certain Parsnip
beside which it dropped. She knows her origin and her power; for, in
the moans and convulsions of the captive Dragon, the secrets of many a
mysterious constellation are revealed to her; and she uses every means
and effort to work from the Outward into the Inward and unseen; while
my father, with the beams which shoot forth from the spirit of the
Salamander, withstands and subdues her. All the baneful principles
which lurk in deadly herbs and poisonous beasts, she collects; and,
mixing them under favorable constellations, raises therewith many
a wicked spell, which overwhelms the soul of man with fear and
trembling, and subjects him to the power of those Demons, produced
from the Dragon when it yielded in battle. Beware of that old woman,
dear Anselmus! She hates thee because thy childlike, pious character
has annihilated many of her wicked charms. Keep true, true to me; soon
art thou at the goal!"

"O my Serpentina! my own Serpentina!" cried the student Anselmus, "how
could I leave thee, how should I not love thee forever!" A kiss was
burning on his lips; he awoke as from a deep dream; Serpentina had
vanished; six o'clock was striking, and it fell heavy on his heart
that today he had not copied a single stroke. Full of anxiety, and
dreading reproaches from the Archivarius, he looked into the sheet;
and, O wonder! the copy of the mysterious manuscript was fairly
concluded; and he thought, on viewing the characters more narrowly,
that the writing was nothing else but Serpentina's story of her
father, the favorite of the Spirit-prince Phosphorus, in Atlantis,
the Land of Marvels. And now entered Archivarius Lindhorst, in his
light-gray surtout, with hat and staff; he looked into the parchment
on which Anselmus had been writing, took a large pinch of snuff, and
said with a smile "Just as I thought!--Well, Herr Anselmus, here is
your speziesthaler; we will now to the Linke Bath; do but follow me!"
The Archivarius stepped rapidly through the garden, in which there was
such a din of singing, whistling, talking, that the student Anselmus
was quite deafened with it and thanked Heaven when he found himself on
the street.

Scarcely had they walked a few paces when they met Registrator
Heerbrand, who companionably joined them. At the Gate, they filled
their pipes, which they had about them; Registrator Heerbrand
complained that he had left his tinder-box behind, and could not
strike fire. "Fire!" cried Archivarius Lindhorst, scornfully; "here is
fire enough, and to spare!" And with this he snapped his fingers, out
of which came streams of sparks and directly kindled the pipes.--"Do
but observe the chemical knack of some men!" said Registrator
Heerbrand; but the student Anselmus thought, not without internal awe,
of the Salamander and his history.

In the Linke Bath, Registrator Heerbrand drank so much strong double
beer that at last, though usually a good-natured, quiet man, he began
singing student songs in squeaking tenor; he asked every one sharply
whether he was his friend or not; and at last had to be taken home by
the student Anselmus, long after Archivarius had gone his way.


NINTH VIGIL

    How the student Anselmus attained to some Sense. The Punch Parts.
    How the student Anselmus took Conrector Paulmann for a Screech-Owl,
    and the latter felt much hurt at it. The Ink-blot, and its
    Consequences.


The strange and mysterious things which day by day befell the student
Anselmus had entirely withdrawn him from every-day life. He no longer
visited any of his friends, and waited every morning with impatience
for the hour of noon, which was to unlock his paradise. And yet while
his whole soul was turned to the sweet Serpentina and the wonders of
Archivarius Lindhorst's fairy kingdom, he could not help now and then
thinking of Veronica; nay, often it seemed as if she came before him
and confessed with blushes how heartily she loved him, how much
she longed to rescue him from the phantoms which were mocking and
befooling him. At times he felt as if a foreign power, suddenly
breaking in on his mind, were drawing him with resistless force to the
forgotten Veronica; as if he must needs follow her whither she pleased
to lead him, nay, as if he were bound to her by ties that would not
break. That very night after Serpentina had first appeared to him
in the form of a lovely maiden, after the wondrous secret of the
Salamander's nuptials with the green Snake had been disclosed,
Veronica, came before him more vividly than ever. Nay, not till he
awoke was he clearly aware that he had been but dreaming; for he had
felt persuaded that Veronica was actually beside him, complaining with
an expression of keen sorrow, which pierced through his inmost soul,
that he should sacrifice her deep, true love to fantastic visions,
which only the distemper of his mind called into being, and which,
moreover, would at last prove his ruin. Veronica was lovelier than he
had ever seen her; he could not drive her from his thoughts: and in
this perplexed and contradictory mood he hastened out, hoping to get
rid of it by a morning walk.

A secret magic influence led him on to the Pirna gate; he was just
turning into a cross street, when Conrector Paulmann, coming after
him, cried out: "Ey! Ey!--Dear Herr Anselmus!--_Amice! Amice_! Where,
in Heaven's name, have you been buried so long? We never see you at
all. Do you know, Veronica is longing very much to have another song
with you! So come along; you were just on the road to me, at any
rate."

The student Anselmus, constrained by this friendly violence, went
along with the Conrector. On entering the house they were met by
Veronica, attired with such neatness and attention that Conrector
Paulmann, full of amazement, asked her: "Why so decked, Mam'sell? Were
you expecting visitors? Well, here I bring you Herr Anselmus." The
student Anselmus, in daintily and elegantly kissing Veronica's hand
felt a small soft pressure from it, which shot like a stream of fire
over all his frame. Veronica was cheerfulness, was grace itself; and
when Paulmann left them for his study, she contrived, by all manner of
rogueries and waggeries, so to uplift the student Anselmus that he at
last quite forgot his bashfulness, and jigged round the room with the
light-headed maiden. But here again the Demon of Awkwardness got hold
of him; he jolted a table, and Veronica's pretty little work-box fell
to the floor. Anselmus picked it up; the lid had sprung, and a little
round metallic mirror was glittering on him, into which he looked with
peculiar delight. Veronica glided softly up to him, laid her hand on
his arm, and, pressing close to him, looked over his shoulder into the
mirror also. And now Anselmus felt as if a battle were beginning
in his soul; thoughts, images flashed out--Archivarius
Lindhorst--Serpentina--the green Snake--at last the tumult abated, and
all this chaos arranged and shaped itself into distinct consciousness.
It was now clear to him that he had always thought of Veronica alone;
nay, that the form which had yesterday appeared to him in the blue
chamber had been no other than Veronica; and that the wild legend of
the Salamander's marriage with the green Snake had merely been written
down by him from the manuscript, but nowise related in his hearing. He
wondered not a little at all these dreams and ascribed them solely to
the heated state of mind into which Veronica's love had brought him,
as well as to his working with Archivarius Lindhorst, in whose rooms
there were, besides, so many strangely intoxicating odors. He could
not but laugh heartily at the mad whim of falling in love with a
little green Snake and taking a well-fed Privy Archivarius for a
Salamander: "Yes, Yes! It is Veronica!" cried he aloud; but on turning
his head around he looked right into Veronica's blue eyes, from which
warmest love was beaming. A faint soft Ah! escaped her lips, which at
that moment were burning on his.

"O happy I!" sighed the enraptured student: "What I yesternight but
dreamed, is in very deed mine today."

"But wilt thou really wed me, then, when thou art Hofrat?" said
Veronica.

"That I will," replied the student Anselmus; and just then the door
creaked, and Conrector Paulmann entered with the words:

"Now, dear Herr Anselmus, I will not let you go today. You will put up
with a bad dinner; then Veronica will make us delightful coffee, which
we shall drink with Registrator Heerbrand, for he promised to come
hither."

"All, best Herr Conrector!" answered the student Anselmus, "are you
not aware that I must go to Archivarius Lindhorst's and copy?"

"Look you, Amice!" said Conrector Paulmann, holding up his watch,
which pointed to half-past twelve.

The student Anselmus saw clearly that he was much too late for
Archivarius Lindhorst; and he complied with the Corrector's wishes the
more readily as he might now hope to look at Veronica the whole day
long, to obtain many a stolen glance and little squeeze of the hand,
nay, even to succeed in conquering a kiss--so high had the student
Anselmus' desires now mounted; he felt more and more contented in
soul, the more fully he convinced himself that he should soon be
delivered from all the fantastic imaginations, which really might have
made a sheer idiot of him.

Registrator Heerbrand came, as he had promised, after dinner; and
coffee being over, and the dusk come on, the Registrator, his face
puckering up to a smile and gaily rubbing his hands, signified that he
had something about him which, if mingled and reduced to form, as it
were paged and titled, by Veronica's fair hands, might be pleasant to
them all, on this October evening.

"Come out, then, with this mysterious substance which you carry
with, you, most valued Registrator," cried Conrector Paulmann. Then
Registrator Heerbrand shoved his hand into his deep pocket, and at
three journeys brought out a bottle of arrack, some citrons, and a
quantity of sugar. Before half an hour had passed, a savory bowl of
punch was smoking on Paulmann's table. Veronica served the beverage;
and ere long there was plenty of gay, good-natured chat among the
friends. But the student Anselmus, as the spirit of the punch mounted
into his head, felt all the images of those wondrous things, which for
some time he had experienced, again coming through his mind. He
saw the Archivarius in his damask nightgown, which glittered like
phosphorus; he saw the azure room, the golden palm-trees; nay, it now
seemed to him as if he must still believe in Serpentina; there was a
fermentation, a conflicting tumult in his soul. Veronica handed him
a glass of punch; and in taking it, he gently touched her hand.
"Serpentina! Veronica!" sighed he to himself. He sank into deep
dreams; but Registrator Heerbrand cried quite aloud: "A strange old
gentleman, whom nobody can fathom, he is and will be, this Archivarius
Lindhorst. Well, long life to him! Your glass, Herr Anselmus!"

Then the student Anselmus awoke from his dreams, and said, as he
touched glasses with Registrator Heerbrand "That proceeds, respected
Herr Registrator, from the circumstance that Archivarius Lindhorst
is in reality a Salamander, who wasted in his fury the Spirit-prince
Phosphorus' garden, because the green Snake had flown away from him."

"How? What?" inquired Conrector Paulmann.

"Yes," continued the student Anselmus; "and for this reason he is now
forced to be a Royal Archivarius, and to keep house here in Dresden
with his three daughters, who, after all, are nothing more than little
gold-green Snakes, that bask in elder-bushes, and traitorously sing,
and seduce away young people, like so many sirens."

"Herr Anselmus! Herr Anselmus!" cried Conrector Paulmann, "is there
a crack in your brain? In Heaven's name, what monstrous stuff is this
you are babbling?"

"He is right," interrupted Registrator Heerbrand; "that fellow, that
Archivarius, is a cursed Salamander, and strikes you fiery snips from
his fingers, which burn holes in your surtout like red-hot tinder. Ay,
ay, thou art in the right, brotherkin Anselmus; and whoever says No,
is saying No to me!" And at these words Registrator Heerbrand struck
the table with his fist, till the glasses rattled.

"Registrator! Are you crazy?" cried the angry Conrector. "Herr
Studiosus, Herr Studiosus! What is this you are about again?"

"Ah!" said the student, "you too are nothing but a bird, a
screech-owl, that frizzles toupees, Herr Conrector!" "What!--I
a bird?--screech-owl, a frizzler?" cried the Conrector, full of
indignation; "Sir, you are mad, born mad!"

"But the crone will get a clutch of him," cried Registrator Heerbrand.

"Yes, the crone is potent," interrupted the student Anselmus, "though
she is but of mean descent; for her father was nothing but a ragged
wing-feather, and her mother a dirty parsnip; but the most of her
power she owes to all sorts of baneful creatures, poisonous vermin
which she keeps about her."

"That is a horrid calumny," cried Veronica, with eyes all glowing in
anger; "old Liese is a wise woman; and the black Cat is no baneful
creature, but a polished young gentleman of elegant manners, and her
cousin german."

"Can _he_ eat Salamanders without singeing his whiskers, and dying
like a candle-snuff?" cried Registrator Heerbrand.

"No! no!" shouted the student Anselmus, "that he never can in this
world; and the green Snake loves me, for I have a childlike mien, and
I have looked into Serpentina's eyes."

"The Cat will scratch them out," cried Veronica.

"Salamander, Salamander masters them all, all!" hallooed Conrector
Paulmann, in the highest fury. "But am I in a madhouse? Am I mad
myself? What crazy stuff am I chattering? Yes, I am mad too! mad too!"
And with this, Conrector Paulmann started up, tore the peruke from his
head and dashed it against the ceiling of the room, till the battered
locks whizzed, and, tangled into utter disorder, rained down the
powder far and wide. Then the student Anselmus and Registrator
Heerbrand seized the punch-bowl and the glasses, and, hallooing and
huzzaing, pitched them against the ceiling also, and the sherds fell
jingling and tingling about their ears.

"_Vivat_ the Salamander!--_Pereat, pereat_ the crone!--Break the
metal mirror!--Dig the cat's eyes out!--Bird, little Bird, from the
air--_Eheu--Eheu--Evoe--Evoe_, Salamander!" So shrieked and shouted
and bellowed the three, like utter maniacs. With loud weeping,
Fränzchen ran out; but Veronica lay whimpering for pain and sorrow on
the sofa.

At this moment the door opened; all was instantly still; and a little
man, in a small gray cloak, came stepping in. His countenance had
a singular air of gravity; and especially the round hooked nose, on
which was a huge pair of spectacles, distinguished itself from all the
noses ever seen. He wore a strange peruke too--more like a feather-cap
than a wig.

"Ey, many good evenings!" grated and cackled the little comical
mannikin. "Is the student Herr Anselmus among you, gentlemen?--Best
compliments from Archivarius Lindhorst; he has waited today in vain
for Herr Anselmus; but tomorrow he begs most respectfully to request
that Herr Anselmus would not forget the hour."

And with this he went out again; and all of them now saw clearly
that the grave little mannikin was in fact a gray Parrot. Conrector
Paulmann and Registrator Heerbrand raised a horse-laugh, which
reverberated through the room, and, in the intervals, Veronica was
moaning and whimpering, as if torn by nameless sorrow; but as to the
student Anselmus, the madness of inward horror was darting through
him, and unconsciously he ran out of the door, into the street.
Instinctively he reached his house, his garret. Ere long Veronica came
in to him, with a peaceful and friendly look, and asked him why, in
his intoxication, he had so alarmed her; and desired him to be on
his guard against new imaginations, while working at Archivarius
Lindhorst's. "Good night, good night, my beloved friend!" whispered
Veronica, scarce audibly, and breathed a kiss on his lips. He
stretched out his arms to clasp her, but the dreamy shape had
vanished, and he awoke cheerful and refreshed. He could not but laugh
heartily at the effects of the punch; but in thinking of Veronica, he
felt pervaded by a most delightful feeling. "To her alone," said he
within himself, "do I owe this return from my insane whims. In good
sooth, I was little better than the man who believed himself to be of
glass; or he who durst not leave his room for fear the hens should eat
him, as he imagined himself to be a barleycorn. But as soon as I am
Hofrat I will marry Mademoiselle Paulmann and be happy, and there's an
end of it."

At noon, as he walked through Archivarius Lindhorst's garden, he
could not help wondering how all this had once appeared so strange and
marvelous to him. He now saw nothing but common, earthen flowerpots,
quantities of geraniums, myrtles, and the like. Instead of the
glittering party-colored birds which used to flout him, there were
only a few sparrows fluttering hither and thither, which raised an
unpleasant, unintelligible cry at sight of Anselmus. The azure room
also had quite a different look; and he could not understand how that
glaring blue, and those unnatural golden trunks of palm-trees, with
their shapeless glistening leaves, should ever have pleased him for a
moment. The Archivarius looked at him with a most peculiar, ironical
smile, and asked: "Well, how did you like the punch last night, good
Anselmus?"

"Ah, doubtless you have heard from the gray Parrot how--" answered the
student Anselmus, quite ashamed; but he stopped short, bethinking him
that this appearance of the Parrot was all a piece of jugglery of the
confused senses.

"I was there myself," said Archivarius Lindhorst; "did you not see me?
But, among the mad pranks you were playing, I had nigh got lamed; for
I was sitting in the punch-bowl, at the very moment when Registrator
Heerbrand laid hands on it, to dash it against the ceiling; and I had
to make a quick retreat into the Conrector's pipehead. Now, adieu,
Herr Anselmus! Be diligent at your task; for the lost day also you
shall have a speziesthaler, because you worked so well before."

"How can the Archivarius babble such mad stuff?" thought the student
Anselmus, sitting down at the table to begin the copying of the
manuscript, which Archivarius Lindhorst had as usual spread out before
him. But on the parchment roll he perceived so many strange crabbed
strokes and twirls all twisted together in inexplicable confusion,
offering no resting-point for the eye, that it seemed to him well-nigh
impossible to copy all this exactly. Nay, in glancing over the whole,
you might have thought the parchment was nothing but a piece of
thickly veined marble, or a stone sprinkled over with lichens.
Nevertheless he determined to do his utmost, and boldly dipped in
his pen; but the ink would not run, do what he would; impatiently
he spirted the point of his pen against his nail, and--Heaven and
Earth!--a huge blot fell on the out-spread original! Hissing and
foaming, a blue flash rose from the blot, and, crackling and wavering,
shot through the room to the ceiling. Then a thick vapor rolled from
the walls; the leaves began to rustle, as if shaken by a tempest; and
down out of them darted glaring basilisks in sparkling fire; these
kindled the vapor, and the bickering masses of flame rolled round
Anselmus. The golden trunks of the palm-trees became gigantic snakes,
which knocked their frightful heads together with piercing metallic
clang and wound their scaly bodies round Anselmus.

"Madman I suffer now the punishment of what, in insolent sacrilege,
thou hast done!" So cried the frightful voice of the crowned
Salamander, who appeared above the snakes like a glittering beam in
the midst of the flame; and now the yawning jaws of the snakes poured
forth cataracts of fire on Anselmus; and it was as if the fire-streams
were congealing about his body and changing into a firm ice-cold
mass. But while Anselmus' limbs, more and more pressed together and
contracted, stiffened into powerlessness, his senses passed away.
On returning to himself, he could not stir a joint; he was as if
surrounded with a glistening brightness, on which he struck if he but
tried to lift his hand or move otherwise.--Alas! He was sitting in a
well-corked crystal bottle, on a shelf, in the library of Archivarius
Lindhorst.


TENTH VIGIL

    Sorrows of the student Anselmus in the Glass Bottle. Happy Life of
    the Cross Church Scholars and Law Clerks. The Battle in the Library
    of Archivarius Lindhorst. Victory of the Salamander, and Deliverance
    of the student Anselmus.


Justly may I doubt whether thou, kind reader, wert ever sealed up in
a glass bottle; or even that any vivid tormenting dream ever oppressed
thee with such a demon from fairyland. If such were the case, thou
wouldst keenly enough figure out the poor student Anselmus' woe; but
shouldst thou never have even dreamed such things, then will thy quick
fancy, for Anselmus' sake and mine, be obliging enough to inclose
itself for a few moments in the crystal. Thou art drowned in dazzling
splendor; all objects about thee appear illuminated and begirt with
beaming rainbow hues; all quivers and wavers, and clangs and drones,
in the sheen; thou art floating motionless as in a firmly congealed
ether, which so presses thee together that the spirit in vain gives
orders to the dead and stiffened body. Weightier and weightier the
mountain burden lies on thee; more and more does every breath exhaust
the little handful of air, that still plays up and down in the narrow
space; thy pulse throbs madly; and, cut through with horrid anguish,
every nerve is quivering and bleeding in this deadly agony. Have
pity, kind reader, on the student Anselmus of whom this inexpressible
torture laid hold in his glass prison; but he felt too well that death
could not relieve him; for did he not awake from the deep swoon
into which the excess of pain had cast him, and open his eyes to new
wretchedness, when the morning sun shone clear into the room? He could
move no limb; but his thoughts struck against the glass, stupefying
him with discordant clang; and instead of the words, which the spirit
used to speak from within him, he now heard only the stifled din of
madness. Then he exclaimed in his despair "O Serpentina! Serpentina!
save me from this agony of Hell!" And it was as if faint sighs
breathed around him, which spread like green transparent elder-leaves
over the glass; the clanging ceased; the dazzling, perplexing glitter
was gone, and he breathed more freely.

"Have not I myself solely to blame for my misery? Ah! Have not I
sinned against thee, thou kind, beloved Serpentina? Have not I raised
vile doubts of thee? Have not I lost my faith, and, with it, all,
all that was to make me so blessed? Ah! Thou wilt now never, never
be mine; for me the Golden Pot is lost, and I shall not behold its
wonders any more. Ah, but once could I see thee, but once hear thy
gentle sweet voice, thou lovely Serpentina!"

So wailed the student Anselmus, caught with deep piercing sorrow; then
spoke a voice close by him: "What the devil ails you Herr Studiosus?
What makes you lament so, out of all compass and measure?"

The student Anselmus now noticed that on the same shelf with him were
five other bottles, in which he perceived three Cross Church Scholars,
and two Law Clerks.

"Ah, gentlemen, my fellows in misery," cried he, "how is it possible
for you to be so calm, nay so happy, as I read in your cheerful looks?
You are sitting here corked up in glass bottles, as well as I, and
cannot move a finger, nay, not think a reasonable thought but there
rises such a murder-tumult of clanging and droning and in your head
itself a tumbling and rumbling enough to drive one mad. But doubtless
you do not believe in the Salamander, or the green Snake."

"You are pleased to jest, Mein Herr Studiosus," replied a Cross Church
Scholar; "we have never been better off than at present; for the
speziesthalers which the mad Archivarius gave us for all manner of
pot-hook copies, are clinking in our pockets; we have now no Italian
choruses to learn by heart; we go every day to Joseph's or other inns,
where we do justice to the double-beer, we even look pretty girls in
their faces; and we sing, like real students, _Gaudeamus igitur_, and
are contented in spirit!"

"The gentlemen are quite right," added a Law Clerk; "I too am well
furnished with speziesthalers, like my dearest colleague beside me
here; and we now diligently walk about on the Weinberg, instead of
scurvy Act-writing within four walls."

"But, my best, worthiest gentlemen!" said the student Anselmus, "do
you not feel, then, that you are all and sundry corked up in glass
bottles, and cannot for your hearts walk a hair's-breadth?"

Here the Cross Church Scholars and the Law Clerks set up a loud laugh,
and cried: "The student is mad; he fancies himself to be sitting in
a glass bottle, and is standing on the Elbe-bridge and looking right
down into the water. Let us go along!"

"Ah!" sighed the student, "they have never seen the sweet Serpentina;
they know not what Freedom, and life in Love, and Faith, signify;
and so by reason of their folly and low-mindedness, they feel not
the oppression of the imprisonment into which the Salamander has cast
them. But I, unhappy I, must perish in want and woe, if she, whom I so
inexpressibly love, do not deliver me!"

Then, waving in faint tinkles, Serpentina's voice flitted through
the room: "Anselmus! believe, love, hope!" And every tone beamed
into Anselmus' prison; and the crystal yielded to his pressure, and
expanded, till the breast of the captive could move and heave.

The torment of his situation became less and less, and he saw clearly
that Serpentina still loved him, and that it was she alone, who
had rendered his confinement in the crystal tolerable. He disturbed
himself no more about his frivolous companions in misfortune, but
directed all his thoughts and meditations on the gentle Serpentina.
Suddenly, however, there arose on the other side a dull, croaking,
repulsive murmur. Ere long he could observe that it proceeded from an
old coffee-pot, with half-broken lid, standing over against him on a
little shelf. As he looked at it more narrowly, the ugly features of
a wrinkled old woman by degrees unfolded themselves; and in a few
moments, the Apple-wife of the Black Gate stood before him. She
grinned and laughed at him, and cried with screeching voice: "Ey, Ey,
my pretty boy, must thou lie in limbo now? To the crystal thou hast
run; did I not tell thee long ago?"

"Mock and jeer me; do, thou cursed witch!" said the student Anselmus.
"Thou art to blame for it all; but the Salamander will catch thee,
thou vile Parsnip!"

"Ho, ho!" replied the crone, "not so proud, good ready-writer! Thou
hast smashed my little sons to pieces, thou hast burnt my nose; but I
must still like thee, thou knave, for once thou wert a pretty fellow;
and my little daughter likes thee too. Out of the crystal thou wilt
never come unless I help thee; up thither I cannot clamber; but my
cousin gossip the Rat, that lives close above thee, will gnaw in two
the shelf on which thou standest; thou shalt jingle down, and I catch
thee in my apron, that thy nose be not broken, or thy fine sleek face
at all injured; then I will carry thee to Mam'sell Veronica, and thou
shalt marry her when thou art Hofrat."

"Avaunt, thou devil's brood!" cried the student Anselmus, full of
fury; "it was thou alone and thy hellish arts that brought me to the
sin which I must now expiate. But I bear it all patiently; for only
here can I be, where the kind Serpentina encircles me with love and
consolation. Hear it, thou beldam, and despair! I bid defiance to
thy power; I love Serpentina, and none but her forever; I will not
be Hofrat, will not look at Veronica, who by thy means entices me
to evil. Can the green Snake not be mine, I will die in sorrow and
longing. Take thyself away, thou vile rook! Take thyself away!"

The crone laughed till the chamber rung: "Sit and die then," cried
she, "but now it is time to set to work; for I have other trade to
follow here." She threw off her black cloak, and so stood in hideous
nakedness; then she ran round in circles, and large folios came
tumbling down to her; out of these she tore parchment leaves, and,
rapidly patching them together in artful combination and fixing
them on her body, in a few instants she was dressed as if in strange
party-colored scale harness. Spitting fire, the black Cat darted out
of the ink-glass, which was standing on the table, and ran mewing
toward the crone, who shrieked in loud triumph and along with him
vanished through the door.

Anselmus observed that she went toward the azure chamber, and directly
he heard a hissing and storming in the distance; the birds in the
garden were crying; the Parrot creaked out: "Help! help! Thieves!
thieves!" That moment the crone returned with a bound into the room,
carrying the Golden Pot on her arm, and, with hideous gestures,
shrieking wildly through the air; "Joy! joy, little son!--Kill the
green Snake! To her, son! To her!"

Anselmus thought he heard a deep moaning, heard Serpentina's voice.
Then horror and despair took hold of him; he gathered all his force,
he dashed violently, as if nerve and artery were bursting, against the
crystal; a piercing clang went through the room, and the Archivarius
in his bright damask nightgown was standing in the door.

"Hey, hey! vermin!--Mad spell!--Witchwork!--Hither, holla!" So shouted
he; then the black hair of the crone started up like bristles; her
red eyes glanced with infernal fire, and clenching together the peaked
fangs of her ample jaws, she hissed: "Hiss, at him! Hiss, at him!
Hiss!" and laughed and haw-hawed in scorn and mockery, and pressed
the Golden Pot firmly toward her, and threw out of it handfuls of
glittering earth on the Archivarius; but as it touched the nightgown
the earth changed into flowers, which rained down on the ground.
Then the lilies of the nightgown flickered and flamed up; and the
Archivarius caught these lilies blazing in sparky fire and dashed them
on the witch; she howled for agony, but still as she leapt aloft and
shook her harness of parchment the lilies went out and fell away into
ashes.

"To her, my lad!" creaked the crone; then the black Cat darted through
the air, and plunged over the Archivarius' head toward the door; but
the gray Parrot fluttered out against him and caught him with his
crooked bill by the nape, till red fiery blood burst down over his
neck; and Serpentina's voice cried: "Saved! Saved!" Then the crone,
foaming with rage and desperation, darted out upon the Archivarius;
she threw the Golden Pot behind her, and holding up the long talons of
her skinny fists, was for clutching the Archivarius by the throat; but
he instantly doffed his nightgown, and hurled it against her. Then,
hissing, and sputtering, and bursting, shot blue flames from the
parchment leaves, and the crone rolled round in howling agony, and
strove to get fresh earth from the Pot, fresh parchment leaves from
the books, that she might stifle the blazing flames; and whenever any
earth or leaves came down on her the flames went out. But now, as
if coming from the interior of the Archivarius, there issued fiery
crackling beams, and darted on the crone.

"Hey, hey! To it again! Salamander! Victory!" clanged the Archivarius'
voice through the chamber; and a hundred bolts whirled forth in fiery
circles round the shrieking crone. Whizzing and buzzing flew Cat
and Parrot in their furious battle; but at last the Parrot, with
his strong wing, dashed the Cat to the ground; and with his talons
transfixing and holding fast his adversary, which, in deadly agony,
uttered horrid mews and howls, he, with his sharp bill, picked out
his glowing eyes, and the burning froth spouted from them. Then thick
vapor streamed up from the spot where the crone, hurled to the ground,
was lying under the nightgown; her howling, her terrific, piercing cry
of lamentation died away in the remote distance. The smoke, which had
spread abroad with irresistible smell, cleared off; the Archivarius
picked up his nightgown, and under it lay an ugly Parsnip.

"Honored Herr Archivarius, here, let me offer you the vanquished foe,"
said the Parrot, holding out a black hair in his beak to Archivarius
Lindhorst.

"Very well, my worthy friend," replied the Archivarius; "here lies
my vanquished foe too; be so good now as to manage what remains. This
very day, as a small douceur, you shall have six cocoanuts, and a new
pair of spectacles also, for I see the Cat has villainously broken
your glasses.

"Yours forever, most honored friend and patron!" answered the Parrot,
much delighted; then took the Parsnip in his bill, and fluttered out
with it by the window which Archivarius Lindhorst had opened for him.

The Archivarius now lifted the Golden Pot, and cried, with a strong
voice, "Serpentina! Serpentina!" But as the student Anselmus, joying
in the destruction of the vile beldam who had hurried him into
misfortune, cast his eyes on the Archivarius, behold, here stood once
more the high majestic form of the Spirit-prince, looking up to
him with indescribable dignity and grace. "Anselmus," said the
Spirit-prince, "not thou, but a hostile Principle, which strove
destructively to penetrate into thy nature and divide thee
against thyself, was to blame for thy unbelief. Thou hast kept thy
faithfulness; be free and happy." A bright flash quivered through the
spirit of Anselmus; the royal triphony of the crystal bells sounded
stronger and louder than he had ever heard it; his nerves and fibres
thrilled; but, swelling higher and higher, the melodious tones rang
through the room; the glass which inclosed Anselmus broke; and he
rushed into the arms of his dear and gentle Serpentina.


ELEVENTH VIGIL

    Conrector Paulmann's anger at the madness which had broken out in
    his Family. How Registrator Heerbrand became Hofrat; and, in the
    keenest Frost, walked about in Shoes and silk Stockings. Veronica's
    Confessions. Betrothment over the steaming Soup-dish.


"But tell me, best Registrator, how the cursed punch last night could
so mount into our heads, and drive us to all manner of _allotria_?"
So said Conrector Paulmann, as he next morning entered his room,
which still lay full of broken sherds, and in whose midst his hapless
peruke, dissolved into its original elements, was floating in the
punch-bowl. After the student Anselmus ran out of doors, Conrector
Paulmann and Registrator Heerbrand had still kept trotting and
hobbling up and down the room, shouting like maniacs, and butting
their heads together; till Fränzchen, with much labor, carried her
vertiginous papa to bed, and Registrator Heerbrand, in the deepest
exhaustion, sank on the sofa, which Veronica had left, taking refuge
in her bedroom. Registrator Heerbrand had his blue handkerchief tied
about his head; he looked quite pale and melancholic, and moaned out:
"Ah, worthy Conrector, not the punch which Mam'sell Veronica most
admirably brewed, no! but simply that cursed student is to blame for
all the mischief. Do you not observe that he has long been _mente
caphis_? And are you not aware that madness is infectious? One fool
makes twenty; pardon me, it is an old proverb; especially when you
have drunk a glass or two, you fall into madness quite readily, and
then involuntarily you manoeuvre, and go through your exercise, just
as the crack-brained fugleman makes the motion. Would you believe it,
Conrector? I am still giddy when I think of that gray Parrot!"

"Gray fiddlesticks!" interrupted the Conrector; "it was nothing but
Archivarius Lindhorst's little old Famulus, who had thrown a gray
cloak over him and was seeking the student Anselmus."

"It may be," answered Registrator Heerbrand, "but, I must confess, I
am quite downcast in spirit; the whole night through there was such a
piping and organing."

"That was I," said the Conrector, "for I snore loud."

"Well, maybe," answered the Registrator; "but Conrector, Conrector!
Ah, not without cause did I wish to raise some cheerfulness among
us last night--But that Anselmus has spoiled all! You know not--O
Conrector, Conrector!" And with this, Registrator Heerbrand started
up, plucked the cloth from his head, embraced the Conrector, warmly
pressed his hand, and again cried, in quite heart-breaking tones: "O
Conrector, Conrector!" and, snatching his hat and staff, rushed out of
doors.

"This Anselmus comes not over my threshold again," said Conrector
Paulmann; "for I see very well that, with this obdurate madness of
his, he robs the best people of their senses. The Registrator is
now over with it too; I have hitherto kept safe; but the Devil, who
knocked hard last night in our carousal, may get in at last and play
his tricks with me. So _Apage, Satanas_! Off with thee, Anselmus!"
Veronica had grown quite pensive; she spoke no word; only smiled now
and then very oddly, and liked best to be alone. "Also of her distress
Anselmus is the cause," said the Conrector, full of malice; "but it
is well that he does not show himself here; I know he fears me, this
Anselmus, and so he never comes."

These concluding words Conrector Paulmann spoke aloud; then the tears
rushed into Veronica's eyes, and she said, sobbing: "Ah! how can
Anselmus come? He has long been corked up in the glass bottle."

"How? What?" cried Conrector Paulmann. "Ah Heaven! Ah Heaven! she is
doting too, like the Registrator; the loud fit will soon come!
Ah, thou cursed, abominable, thrice-cursed Anselmus!" He ran forth
directly to Doctor Eckstein, who smiled, and again said: "Ey! Ey!"
This time, however, he prescribed nothing; but added, to the little
he had uttered, the following words, as he walked away: "Nerves! Come
round of itself. Take the air; walks; amusements; theatre; playing
_Sonntagskind, Schwestern von Prag_. Come round of itself."

"So eloquent I have seldom seen the Doctor," thought Conrector
Paulmann; "really talkative, I declare!"

Several days and weeks and months were gone; Anselmus had vanished;
but Registrator Heerbrand also did not make his appearance--not till
the fourth of February, when the Registrator, in a new fashionable
coat of the finest cloth, in shoes and silk stockings, notwithstanding
the keen frost, and with a large nosegay of fresh flowers in his hand,
did enter precisely at noon into the parlor of Conrector Paulmann, who
wondered not a little to see his friend so dizened. With a solemn air,
Registrator Heerbrand stepped forward to Conrector Paulmann; embraced
him with the finest elegance, and then said: "Now at last, on the
Saint's-day of your beloved and most honored Mam'sell Veronica, I will
tell you out, straightforward, what I have long had lying at my heart.
That evening, that unfortunate evening, when I put the ingredients of
that cursed punch in my pocket, I purposed imparting to you a piece of
good news, and celebrating the happy day in convivial joys. Already I
had learned that I was to be made Hofrat, for which promotion I have
now the patent, _cum nomine et sigillo Principis_, in my pocket."

"Ah! Herr Registr--Herr Hofrat Heerbrand, I meant to say," stammered
the Conrector.

"But it is you, most honored Conrector," continued the new Hofrat; "it
is you alone that can complete my happiness. For a long time I have in
secret loved your daughter, Mam'sell Veronica; and I can boast of many
a kind look which she has given me, evidently showing that she would
not cast me away. In one word, honored Conrector! I, Hofrat Heerbrand,
do now entreat of you the hand of your most amiable Mam'sell Veronica,
whom I, if you have nothing against it, purpose shortly to take home
as my wife."

Conrector Paulmann, full of astonishment, clapped his hands
repeatedly, crying: "Ey, Ey, Ey! Herr Registr--Herr Hofrat, I meant
to say--who would have thought it? Well, if Veronica does really
love you, I for my share cannot object; nay, perhaps, her present
melancholy is nothing but concealed love for you, most honored Hofrat!
You know what freaks they have!"

At this moment Veronica entered, pale and agitated as she now commonly
was. Then Hofrat Heerbrand stepped toward her; mentioned in a neat
speech her Saint's-day and handed her the odorous nosegay, along
with a little packet; out of which, when she opened it, a pair of
glittering ear-rings beamed up at her. A rapid flying blush tinted her
cheeks; her eyes sparkled in joy, and she cried: "O Heaven! These are
the very ear-rings which I wore some weeks ago, and thought so much
of."

"How can this be, dearest Mam'sell," interrupted Hofrat Heerbrand,
somewhat alarmed and hurt, "when I bought these jewels not an hour ago
in the Schlossgasse, for current money?"

But Veronica heeded him not; she was standing before the mirror to
witness the effect of the trinkets, which she had already suspended
in her pretty little ears. Conrector Paulmann disclosed to her, with
grave countenance and solemn tone, his friend Heerbrand's preferment
and present proposal. Veronica looked at the Hofrat with a searching
look, and said: "I have long known that you wished to marry me. Well,
be it so! I promise you my heart and hand; but I must now unfold to
you, to both of you, I mean, my father and my bridegroom, much that
is lying heavy on my heart; yes, even now, though the soup should get
cold, which I see Fränzchen is just putting on the table."

Without waiting for the Conrector's or the Hofrat's reply, though the
words were visibly hovering on the lips of both, Veronica continued:
"You may believe me, best father, I loved Anselmus from my heart, and
when Registrator Heerbrand, who is now become Hofrat himself, assured
us that Anselmus might probably reach that position, I resolved that
he and no other should be my husband. But then it seemed as if alien
hostile beings were for snatching him away from me; I had recourse to
old Liese, who was once my nurse, but is now a wise woman, and a great
enchantress. She promised to help me and give Anselmus wholly into
my hands. We went at midnight on the Equinox to the crossing of the
roads; she conjured certain hellish spirits, and by aid of the black
Cat we manufactured a little metallic mirror, in which I, directing my
thoughts on Anselmus, had but to look in order to rule him wholly in
heart and mind. But now I heartily repent having done all this, and
here abjure all Satanic arts. The Salamander has conquered old Liese;
I heard her shrieks; but there was no help to be given; so soon as the
Parrot had eaten the Parsnip my metallic mirror broke in two with a
piercing clang." Veronica took out both the pieces of the mirror,
and a lock of hair from her work-box, and handing them to Hofrat
Heerbrand, she proceeded: "Here, take the fragments of the mirror,
dear Hofrat; throw them down, tonight, at twelve o'clock, over the
Elbe-bridge, from the place where the Cross stands; the stream is not
frozen there; the lock, however, do you wear on your faithful breast.
I again abjure all magic; and heartily wish Anselmus joy of his
good fortune, seeing he is wedded with the green Snake, who is
much prettier and richer than I. You, dear Hofrat, I will love and
reverence as becomes a true honest wife."

"Alack! Alack!" cried Conrector Paulmann, full of sorrow; "she is
cracked, she is cracked; she can never be Frau Hofrätin; she is
cracked!"

"Not in the least," interrupted Hofrat Heerbrand; "I know well that
Mam'sell Veronica has felt kindly toward the loutish Anselmus; and it
may be that in some fit of passion, she has had recourse to the wise
woman, who, as I perceive, can be no other than the card-caster and
coffee-pourer of the Seetor--in a word, old Rauerin. Nor can it be
denied that there are secret arts, which exert their influence on
men but too balefully; we read of such in the Ancients, and doubtless
there are still such; but as to what Mam'sell Veronica is pleased to
say about the victory of the Salamander, and the marriage of Anselmus
with the green Snake, this, in reality, I take for nothing but a
poetic allegory; a sort of poem, wherein she sings her entire farewell
to the Student."

"Take it for what you will, best Hofrat!" cried Veronica; "perhaps for
a very stupid dream."

"That I nowise do," replied Hofrat Heerbrand; "for I know well that
Anselmus himself is possessed by secret powers, which vex him and
drive him on to all imaginable mad freaks."

Conrector Paulmann could stand it no longer; he broke loose: "Hold!
For the love of Heaven, hold! Are we again overtaken with the cursed
punch, or has Anselmus' madness come over us too? Herr Hofrat, what
stuff is this you are talking? I will suppose, however, that it is
love which haunts your brain; this soon comes to rights in marriage;
otherwise I should be apprehensive that you too had fallen into some
shade of madness, most honored Herr Hofrat; then what would become
of the future branches of the family, inheriting the _malum_ of their
parents? But now I give my paternal blessing to this happy union, and
permit you as bride and bridegroom to take a kiss."

This happened forthwith; and thus before the presented soup had
grown cold, was a formal betrothment concluded. In a few weeks, Frau
Hofrätin Heerbrand was actually, as she had been in vision, sitting in
the balcony of a fine house in the Neumarkt, and looking down with a
smile on the beaux, who, passing by, turned their glasses up to her,
and said: "She is a heavenly woman, the Hofrätin Heerbrand."


TWELFTH VIGIL

    Account of the Freehold Property to which Anselmus removed, as
    son-in-law of Archivarius Lindhorst; and how he lives there with
    Serpentina. Conclusion.


How deeply did I feel, in the depth of my heart, the blessedness of
the student Anselmus, who now, indissolubly united with his gentle
Serpentina, has withdrawn to the mysterious Land of Wonders,
recognized by him as the home toward which his bosom, filled with
strange forecastings, had always longed. But in vain was all my
striving to set before thee, kind reader, those glories with which
Anselmus is encompassed, or even in the faintest degree to shadow them
forth to thee in words. Reluctantly I could not but acknowledge the
feebleness of my every expression. I felt myself enthralled amid
the paltriness of every-day life; I sickened in tormenting
dissatisfaction; I glided about like a dreamer; in brief, I fell into
that condition of the student Anselmus, which, in the Fourth Vigil, I
have endeavored to set before thee. It grieved me to the heart, when I
glanced over the Eleven Vigils, now happily accomplished, and thought
that to insert the Twelfth, the keystone of the whole, would never be
vouchsafed me. For whensoever, in the night season, I set myself to
complete the work, it was as if mischievous Spirits (they might be
relations, perhaps cousins german, of the slain witch) held a polished
glittering piece of metal before me, in which I beheld my own mean
Self, pale, overwatched, and melancholic, like Registrator Heerbrand
after his bout of punch. Then I threw down my pen, and hastened to
bed, that I might behold the happy Anselmus and the fair Serpentina,
at least in my dreams. This had lasted for several days and nights,
when at length quite unexpectedly I received a note from Archivarius
Lindhorst, in which he addressed me as follows:

"Respected Sir--It is well known to me that you have written down, in
Eleven Vigils, the singular fortunes of my good son-in-law Anselmus,
whilom student, now poet; and are at present cudgeling your brains
very sore, that in the Twelfth and Last Vigil you may tell somewhat of
his happy life in Atlantis, where he now lives with my daughter on
the pleasant Freehold which I possess in that country. Now,
notwithstanding I much regret that hereby my own peculiar nature is
unfolded to the reading world; seeing it may, in my office as Privy
Archivarius, expose me to a thousand inconveniences; nay, in the
Collegium even give rise to the question: How far a Salamander can
justly, and with binding consequences, plight himself by oath, as a
Servant of the State, and how far, on the whole, important affairs may
be intrusted to him, since, according to Gabalis and Swedenborg,
the Spirits of the Elements are not to be trusted at
all?--notwithstanding, my best friends must now avoid my embrace;
fearing lest, in some sudden exuberance, I dart out a flash or two,
and singe their hair-curls, and Sunday frocks; notwithstanding all
this, I say, it is still my purpose to assist you in the completion of
the Work, since much good of me and of my dear married daughter (would
the other two were off my hands also!) has therein been said. Would
you write your Twelfth Vigil, therefore, then descend your cursed five
pair of stairs, leave your garret, and come over to me. In the blue
palm-tree room, which you already know, you will find fit writing
materials; and you can then, in a few words, specify to your readers
what you have seen--a better plan for you than any long-winded
description of a life which you know only by hearsay.

With esteem, your obedient servant,

THE SALAMANDER LINDHORST,

P.T. Royal Privy Archivarius."

This truly somewhat rough, yet on the whole friendly note from
Archivarius Lindhorst, gave me high pleasure. Clear enough it
seemed, indeed, that the singular manner in which the fortunes of his
son-in-law had been revealed to me, and which I, bound to silence,
must conceal even from thee, kind reader, was well known to this
peculiar old gentleman; yet he had not taken it so ill as I might
readily have apprehended. Nay, here was he offering me his helpful
hand in the completion of my work; and from this I might justly
conclude that at bottom he was not averse to have his marvelous
existence in the world of spirits thus divulged through the press.

"It may be," thought I, "that he himself expects from this measure,
perhaps, to get his two other daughters the sooner married; for who
knows but a spark may fall in this or that young man's breast, and
kindle a longing for the green Snake; whom, on Ascension-day, under
the elder-bush, he will forthwith seek and find? From the woe which
befell Anselmus, when inclosed in the glass bottle, he will take
warning to be doubly and trebly on his guard against all doubt and
unbelief."

Precisely at eleven o'clock I extinguished my study-lamp and glided
forth to Archivarius Lindhorst, who was already waiting for me in the
lobby.

"Are you there, my worthy friend? Well, this is what I like, that you
have not mistaken my good intentions; do but follow me!"

And with this he led the way through the garden, now filled with
dazzling brightness, into the azure chamber, where I observed the same
violet table at which Anselmus had been writing.

Archivarius Lindhorst disappeared, but soon came back, carrying in his
hand a fair golden goblet out of which a high blue flame was sparkling
up. "Here," said he, "I bring you the favorite drink of your friend
the Bandmaster, Johannes Kreisler.[45] It is burning arrack, into
which I have thrown a little sugar. Sip a touch or two of it; I will
doff my nightgown, and, to amuse myself and enjoy your worthy company
while you sit looking and writing, shall just bob up and down a little
in the goblet."

"As you please, honored Herr Archivarius," answered I: "but if I am to
ply the liqueur, you will get none."

"Don't fear that, my good fellow," cried the Archivarius; then hastily
threw off his nightgown, mounted, to my no small amazement, into the
goblet, and vanished in the blaze. Without fear, softly blowing black
the flame, I partook of the drink; it was truly delicious!

Stir not the emerald leaves of the palm-trees in soft sighing and
rustling, as if kissed by the breath of the morning wind? Awakened
from their sleep, they move and mysteriously whisper of the wonders
which, from the far distance, approach like tones of melodious harps!
The azure rolls from the walls, and floats like airy vapor to and
fro; but dazzling beams shoot through the perfume which, whirling
and dancing, as in jubilee of childlike sport, mounts and mounts to
immeasurable heights, and vaults over the palm-trees. But brighter and
brighter shoots beam on beam, till in bright sunshine and boundless
expanse opens the grove where I behold Anselmus. Here glowing
hyacinths, and tulips, and roses, lift their fair heads; and their
perfumes, in loveliest sound, call to the happy youth: "Wander, wander
among us, our beloved; for thou understandest us! Our perfume is the
Longing of Love; we love thee, and are thine forevermore!" The golden
rays burn in glowing tones: "We are Fire, kindled by Love. Perfume is
Longing; but Fire is Desire: and dwell we not in thy bosom? We are thy
own!" The dark bushes, the high trees, rustle and sound: "Come to
us, thou loved, thou happy one! Fire is Desire; but Hope is our cool
Shadow. Lovingly we rustle round thy head; for thou understandest us,
because Love dwells in thy breast!" The fountains and brooks murmur
and patter. "Loved one, walk not so quickly by; look into our crystal!
Thy image dwells in us, which we preserve with Love, for thou hast
understood us." In the triumphal choir, bright birds are singing:
"Hear us! Hear us! We are Joy, we are Delight, the rapture of Love!"
But longingly Anselmus turns his eyes to the Glorious Temple, which
rises behind him in the distance. The artful pillars seem trees; and
the capitals and friezes acanthus leaves, which in wondrous wreaths
and figures form splendid decorations. Anselmus walks to the Temple;
he views with inward delight the variegated marble, the steps with
their strange veins of moss. "Ah, no!" cries he, as if in the excess
of rapture, "she is not far from me now; she is near!" Then advances
Serpentina, in the fulness of beauty and grace, from the Temple;
she bears the Golden Pot, from which a bright Lily has sprung. The
nameless rapture of infinite longing glows in her bright eyes; she
looks at Anselmus, and says: "Ah! Dearest, the Lily has sent forth her
bowl; what we longed for is fulfilled; is there a happiness to equal
ours?" Anselmus clasps her with the tenderness of warmest ardor; the
Lily burns in flaming beams over his head. And louder move the trees
and bushes; clearer and gladder play the brooks; the birds, the
shining insects dance in the waves of perfume; a gay, bright rejoicing
tumult, in the air, in the water, in the earth, is holding the
festival of Love! Now rush sparkling streaks, gleaming over all the
bushes; diamonds look from the ground like shining eyes; high gushes
spurt from the wells; strange perfumes are wafted hither on sounding
wings; they are the Spirits of the Elements, who do homage to the
Lily, and proclaim the happiness of Anselmus. Then Anselmus raises his
head, as if encircled with a beamy glory. Is it looks? Is it words?
Is it song? You hear the sound: "Serpentina! Belief in thee, Love of
thee, has unfolded to my soul the inmost spirit of Nature! Thou hast
brought me the Lily, which sprung from Gold, from the primeval Force
of the earth, before Phosphorus had kindled the spark of Thought; this
Lily is Knowledge of the sacred Harmony of all Beings; and in this do
I live in highest blessedness forevermore. Yes, I, thrice happy,
have perceived what was highest; I must indeed love thee forever, O
Serpentina! Never shall the golden blossoms of the Lily grow pale;
for, like Belief and Love, Knowledge is eternal."

For the vision, in which I had now beheld Anselmus bodily, in his
Freehold of Atlantis, I stand indebted to the arts of the Salamander;
and most fortunate was it that, when all had melted into air, I found
a paper lying on the violet table, with the foregoing statement of the
matter, written fairly and distinctly by my own hand. But now I felt
myself as if transpierced and torn in pieces by sharp sorrow. "Ah,
happy Anselmus, who hast cast away the burden of week-day life, who
in the love of thy kind Serpentina fliest with bold pinion, and now
livest in rapture and joy on thy Freehold in Atlantis! while I--poor
I!--must soon, nay, in a few moments, leave even this fair hall, which
itself is far from a Freehold in Atlantis, and again be transplanted
to my garret, where, enthralled among the pettinesses of necessitous
existence, my heart and my sight are so bedimmed with thousand
mischiefs, as with thick fog, that the fair Lily will never, never be
beheld by me."

Then Archivarius Lindhorst patted me gently on the shoulder, and said:
"Soft, soft, my honored friend! Lament not so! Were you not even now
in Atlantis, and have you not at least a pretty little copyhold Farm
there, as the poetical possession of your inward sense? And is the
blessedness of Anselmus aught else but a Living in Poesy? Can aught
else but Poesy reveal itself as the sacred Harmony of all Beings, as
the deepest secret of Nature?"


_FRIEDRICH BARON DE LA MOTTE FOUQUÉ_

       *       *       *       *       *


SELECTIONS FROM UNDINE[46] (1811)

TRANSLATED BY F.E. BUNNETT

CHAPTER VIII

The Day after the wedding


The fresh light of the morning awoke the young married pair. Undine
hid bashfully beneath her covers while Huldbrand lay still, absorbed
in deep meditation. Wonderful and horrible dreams had disturbed
Huldbrand's rest; he had been haunted by spectres, who, grinning at
him by stealth, had tried to disguise themselves as beautiful women,
and from beautiful women they all at once assumed the faces of
dragons, and when he started up from these hideous visions the
moonlight shone pale and cold into the room; terrified he looked at
Undine on whose bosom he fell asleep and who still lay in unaltered
beauty and grace. Then he would press a light kiss upon her rosy lips
and would fall asleep again only to be awakened by new terrors.
After he had reflected on all this, now that he was fully awake, he
reproached himself for any doubt that could have led him into error
with regard to his beautiful wife. He begged her to forgive him for
the injustice he had done her, but she only held out to him her fair
hand, sighed deeply, and remained silent. But a glance of exquisite
fervor, such as he had never seen before, beamed from her eyes,
carrying with it the full assurance that Undine bore him no ill-will.
He then rose cheerfully and left her, to join his friends in the
common apartment.

He found the three sitting round the hearth with an air of anxiety,
as if they dared not venture to speak aloud. The priest seemed to be
praying in his inmost spirit that all evil might be averted. When,
however, they saw the young husband come forth so cheerfully, the
careworn expression of their faces vanished.

The old fisherman even began to tease the knight, but in so chaste and
modest a manner that the aged wife herself smiled good-humoredly as
she listened to them. Undine at length made her appearance. All rose
to meet her and all stood still with surprise, for the young wife
seemed so strange to them and yet the same. The priest was the first
to advance toward her, with paternal affection beaming in his face,
and, as he raised his hand to bless her, the beautiful woman sank
reverently on her knees before him. With a few humble and gracious
words she begged him to forgive her for any foolish things she might
have said the evening before, and entreated him in an agitated tone
to pray for the welfare of her soul. She then rose, kissed her
foster-parents, and thanking them for all the goodness they had shown
her, she exclaimed, "Oh, I now feel in my innermost heart, how much,
how infinitely much, you have done for me, dear, kind people!" She
could not at first desist from her caresses, but scarcely had she
perceived that the old woman was busy in preparing breakfast than she
went to the hearth, cooked and arranged the meal, and would not suffer
the good old mother to take the least trouble.

She continued thus throughout the whole day, quiet, kind, and
attentive--at once a little matron and a tender bashful girl. The
three who had known her longest expected every moment to see some
whimsical vagary of her capricious spirit burst forth; but they waited
in vain for it. Undine remained as mild and gentle as an angel. The
holy father could not take his eyes from her, and he said repeatedly
to the bridegroom, "The goodness of heaven, sir, has intrusted a
treasure to you yesterday through me, unworthy as I am; cherish it as
you ought, and it will promote your temporal and eternal welfare."

[Illustration: FRIEDRICH BARON DE LA MOTTE-FOUQUÉ.]

Toward evening Undine was hanging on the knight's arm with humble
tenderness, and drew him gently out of the door where the declining
sun was shining pleasantly on the fresh grass and upon the tall
slender stems of the trees. The eyes of the young wife were moist,
as with the dew of sadness and love, and a tender and fearful secret
seemed hovering on her lips--which, however, was disclosed only by
scarcely audible sighs. She led her husband onward and onward in
silence; when he spoke she answered him only with looks, in which,
it is true, there lay no direct reply to his inquiries, but a whole
heaven of love and timid devotion. Thus they reached the edge of
the swollen forest-stream, and the knight was astonished to see it
rippling along in gentle waves, without a trace of its former wildness
and swell. "By the morning, it will be quite dry," said the beautiful
wife, in a regretful tone, "and you can then travel away wherever you
will, without anything to hinder you."

"Not without you, my little Undine," replied the knight, laughing;
"remember, even if I wished to desert you, the church, and the
spiritual powers, and the emperor, and the empire, would interpose and
bring the fugitive back again."

"All depends upon you, all depends upon you," whispered his wife, half
weeping and half smiling. "I think, however, nevertheless, that you
will keep me with you; I love you so heartily. Now carry me across to
that little island that lies before us. The matter shall be decided
there. I could easily indeed glide through the rippling waves, but it
is so restful in your arms, and, if you are to cast me off, I shall
have sweetly rested in them once more for the last time." Huldbrand,
full as he was of strange fear and emotion, knew not what to reply. He
took her in his arms and carried her across, remembering now for the
first time that this was the same little island from which he had
borne her back to the old fisherman on that first night. On the
farther side he put her down on the soft grass, and was on the point
of placing himself lovingly near his beautiful burden when she said,
"No, there, opposite to me! I will read my sentence in your eyes,
before your lips speak; now, listen attentively to what I will relate
to you!" And she began:

"You must know, my loved one, that there are beings in the elements
which appear almost like you mortals, and which rarely allow
themselves to become visible to your race. Wonderful salamanders
glitter and sport in the flames; lean and malicious gnomes dwell deep
within the earth; spirits, belonging to the air, wander through the
forests; and a vast family of water spirits live in the lakes and
streams and brooks. In resounding domes of crystal, through which the
sky looks in with its sun and stars, these latter spirits find their
beautiful abode; lofty trees of coral, with blue and crimson fruits,
gleam in the gardens; they wander over the pure sand of the sea, and
among lovely variegated shells, and amid all exquisite treasures of
the old world, which the present is no longer worthy to enjoy; all
these the floods have covered with their secret veils of silver, and
the noble monuments sparkle below, stately and solemn, and bedewed by
the loving waters which allure from them many a beautiful moss-flower
and entwining cluster of sea-grass. Those, however, who dwell there,
are very fair and lovely to behold, and for the most part are more
beautiful than human beings. Many a fisherman has been so fortunate
as to surprise some tender mermaid, as she rose above the waters and
sang. He would then tell afar of her beauty, and such wonderful beings
have been given the name of Undines. You, moreover, are now actually
beholding an Undine."

The knight tried to persuade himself that his beautiful wife was
under the spell of one of her strange humors and that she was taking
pleasure in teasing him with one of her extravagant inventions. But
repeatedly as he said this to himself, he could not believe it for a
moment; a strange shudder passed through him; unable to utter a word,
he stared at the beautiful narrator with an immovable gaze. Undine
shook her head sorrowfully, drew a deep sigh, and then proceeded.

"Our condition would be far superior to that of you human beings--for
human beings we call ourselves, being similar to them in form and
culture--but there is one evil peculiar to us. We and our like in the
other elements vanish into dust and pass away, body and spirit,
so that not a vestige of us remains behind; and when you mortals
hereafter awake to a purer life we remain with the sand and the sparks
and the wind and the waves. Hence we have also no souls; the element
moves us and is often obedient to us while we live, though it scatters
us to dust when we die; and we are merry, without having aught to
grieve us--merry as the nightingales and little gold-fishes and other
pretty children of nature. But all beings aspire to be higher than
they are. Thus my father, who is a powerful water-prince in the
Mediterranean Sea, desired that his only daughter should become
possessed of a soul, even though she must then endure many of the
sufferings of those thus endowed. Such as we, however, can obtain a
soul only by the closest union of love with one of your human race.
I am now possessed of a soul, and my soul I owe you, my inexpressibly
beloved one, and it will ever thank you if you do not make my whole
life miserable. For what is to become of me if you avoid and reject
me? Still I would not retain you by deceit. And if you mean to reject
me do so now, and return alone to the shore. I will dive into this
brook, which is my uncle; and here in the forest, far removed from
other friends, he passes his strange and solitary life. He is,
however, powerful, and is esteemed and beloved by many great streams;
and as he brought me hither to the fisherman, a light-hearted,
laughing child, he will take me back again to my parents, a loving,
suffering, and soul-endowed woman."

She was about to say still more, but Huldbrand embraced her with the
most heartfelt emotion and love, and bore her back again to the shore.
It was not till he reached it that he swore, amid tears and kisses,
never to forsake his sweet wife, calling himself more happy than the
Greek sculptor Pygmalion, whose beautiful statue received life from
Venus and became his loved one. In endearing confidence Undine walked
back to the cottage, leaning on his arm, and feeling now for the first
time with all her heart how little she ought to regret the forsaken
crystal palaces of her mysterious father.


CHAPTER XIII

How they lived at Castle Ringstetten


The writer of this story, both because it moves his own heart and
because he wishes it to move that of others, begs you, dear reader, to
pardon him if he now briefly passes over a considerable space of time,
only cursorily mentioning the events that marked it. He knows well
that he might portray according to the rules of art, step by step, how
Huldbrand's heart began to turn from Undine to Bertalda; how Bertalda
more and more responded with ardent love to the young knight, and how
they both looked upon the poor wife as a mysterious being rather to
be feared than pitied; how Undine wept, and how her tears stung the
knight's heart with remorse without awakening his former love, so that
though he at times was kind and endearing to her, a cold shudder
would soon draw him from her and he would turn to his fellow-mortal,
Bertalda. All this the writer knows might be fully detailed, and
perhaps ought to have been so; but such a task would have been too
painful, for similar things have been known to him by sad experience,
and he shrinks from their shadow even in remembrance. You know
probably a like feeling, dear reader, for such is the lot of mortal
man. Happy are you if you have received rather than inflicted the
pain, for in such things it is more blessed to receive than to give.
If it be so, such recollections will bring only a feeling of sorrow
to your mind, and perhaps a tear will trickle down your cheek over
the faded flowers that once caused you such delight. But let that be
enough. We will not pierce our hearts with a thousand separate things,
but only briefly state, as I have just said, how matters were.

Poor Undine was very sad, and the other two were not to be called
happy. Bertalda, especially, thought that she could trace the effect
of jealousy on the part of the injured wife whenever her wishes
were in any way thwarted. She had therefore habituated herself to an
imperious demeanor, to which Undine yielded in sorrowful submission,
and the now blinded Huldbrand usually encouraged this arrogant
behavior in the strongest manner. But the circumstance that most of
all disturbed the inmates of the castle was a variety of wonderful
apparitions which met Huldbrand and Bertalda in the vaulted galleries
of the castle, and which had never been heard of before as haunting
the locality. The tall white man, in whom Huldbrand recognized only
too plainly Uncle Kühleborn, and Bertalda the spectral master of the
fountain, often passed before them with a threatening aspect, and
especially before Bertalda, on so many occasions that she had several
times been made ill with terror and had frequently thought of quitting
the castle. But still she stayed there, partly because Huldbrand was
so dear to her, and she relied on her innocence, no words of love
having ever passed between them, and partly also because she knew
not whither to direct her steps. The old fisherman, on receiving the
message from the lord of Ringstetten that Bertalda was his guest, had
written a few lines in an almost illegible hand but as well as his
advanced age and long disuse would admit of. "I have now become," he
wrote, "a poor old widower, for my dear and faithful wife is dead.
However lonely I now sit in my cottage, Bertalda is better with you
than with me. Only let her do nothing to harm my beloved Undine!
She will have my curse if it be so." The last words of this letter
Bertalda flung to the winds, but she carefully retained the part
respecting her absence from her father--just as we are all wont to do
in similar circumstances.

One day, when Huldbrand had just ridden out, Undine summoned the
domestics of the family and ordered them to bring a large stone and
carefully to cover with it the magnificent fountain which stood in the
middle of the castle-yard. The servants objected that it would oblige
them to bring water from the valley below. Undine smiled sadly. "I am
sorry, my people," she replied, "to increase your work. I would
rather myself fetch up the pitchers, but this fountain must be closed.
Believe me that it cannot be otherwise, and that it is only by so
doing that we can avoid a greater evil."

The whole household were glad to be able to please their gentle
mistress; they made no further inquiry, but seized the enormous stone.
They were just raising it in their hands and were already poising it
over the fountain, when Bertalda came running up and called out to
them to stop, as it was from this fountain that the water was brought
which was so good for her complexion and she would never consent to
its being closed. Undine, however, although gentle as usual, was this
time more than usually firm. She told Bertalda that it was her due, as
mistress of the house, to arrange her household as she thought best,
and that, in this, she was accountable to no one but her lord and
husband. "See, oh, pray see," exclaimed Bertalda, in an angry yet
uneasy tone, "how the poor beautiful water is curling and writhing at
being shut out from the bright sunshine and from the cheerful sight
of the human face, for whose mirror it was created!" The water in the
fountain was indeed wonderfully agitated and hissing; it seemed as if
something within were struggling to free itself, but Undine only the
more earnestly urged the fulfilment of her orders. The earnestness was
scarcely needed. The servants of the castle were as happy in obeying
their gentle mistress as in opposing Bertalda's haughty defiance; and
in spite of all the rude scolding and threatening of the latter, the
stone was soon firmly lying over the opening of the fountain. Undine
leaned thoughtfully over it and wrote with her beautiful fingers on
its surface. She must, however, have had something very sharp and
corrosive in her hand, for when she turned away and the servants
drew near to examine the stone, they perceived all sorts of strange
characters upon it, which none of them had seen there before.

Bertalda received the knight, on his return home in the evening, with
tears and complaints of Undine's conduct. He cast a serious look at
his poor wife, and she looked down in great distress; yet she said
with great composure, "My lord and husband does not reprove even a
bond-slave without a hearing, how much less, then, his wedded wife?"

"Speak," said the knight with a gloomy countenance, "what induced you
to act so strangely?"

"I should like to tell you when we are quite alone," sighed Undine.

"You can tell me just as well in Bertalda's presence," was the
rejoinder.

"Yes, if you command me," said Undine; "but command it not. Oh pray,
pray command it not!" She looked so humble, so sweet, so obedient,
that the knight's heart felt a passing gleam from better times. He
kindly placed her arm within his own and led her to his apartment,
when she began to speak as follows:

"You already know, my beloved lord, something of my evil uncle,
Kühleborn, and you have frequently been displeased at meeting him in
the galleries of this castle. He has several times frightened Bertalda
into illness. This is because he is devoid of soul, a mere elemental
mirror of the outward world, without the power of reflecting the world
within. He sees, too, sometimes, that you are dissatisfied with me;
that I, in my childishness, am weeping at this, and that Bertalda
perhaps is at the very same moment laughing. Hence he imagines various
discrepancies in our home life, and in many ways mixes unbidden with
our circle. What is the good of my reproving him? What is the use of
my sending him angrily away? He does not believe a word I say. His
poor nature has no idea that the joys and sorrows of love have so
sweet a resemblance, and are so closely linked that no power can
separate them. Amid tears a smile shines forth, and a smile allures
tears from their secret chambers."

She looked up at Huldbrand, smiling and weeping; and he again
experienced within his heart all the charm of his old love. She felt
this, and, pressing him more tenderly to her, she continued amid tears
of joy, "As the disturber of our peace was not to be dismissed with
words, I have been obliged to shut the door upon him. And the only
door by which he obtains access to us, is that fountain. He is at odds
with the other water-spirits in the neighborhood, counting from the
adjacent valleys, and his kingdom only recommences further off on the
Danube, into which some of his good friends direct their course. For
this reason I had the stone placed over the opening of the fountain,
and I inscribed characters upon it which cripple all my uncle's power,
so that he can now neither intrude upon you, nor upon me, nor upon
Bertalda. Human beings, it is true, can raise the stone again with
ordinary effort, in spite of the characters inscribed on it; the
inscription does not hinder them. If you wish, therefore, follow
Bertalda's desire, but, truly, she knows not what she asks! The
ill-bred Kühleborn has set his mark especially upon her; and if this
or that came to pass which he has predicted to me and which might
indeed happen without your meaning any evil--ah! dear one, even you
would then be exposed to danger!"

Huldbrand felt deeply the generosity of his sweet wife, in her
eagerness to shut up her formidable protector while she had even been
chided for it by Bertalda. He pressed her therefore in his arms with
the utmost affection, and said with emotion, "The stone shall remain,
and all shall remain, now and ever, as you wish to have it, my sweet
little Undine."

She caressed him with humble delight as she heard the expressions
of love so long withheld, and then at length she said, "My dearest
friend, since you are so gentle and kind today, may I venture to ask
a favor of you? See now, it is just the same with you as it is with
summer. In the height of its glory summer puts on the flaming and
thundering crown of mighty storms and assumes the air of a king over
the earth. You too sometimes let your fury rise, and your eyes flash,
and your voice is angry, and this becomes you well, though I in my
folly may sometimes weep at it. But never, I pray you, behave thus
toward me on the water, or even when we are near it. You see, my
relatives would then acquire a right over me. They would unrelentingly
tear me from you in their rage because they would imagine that one of
their race was injured, and I should be compelled all my life to dwell
below in the crystal palaces, and should never be permitted to ascend
to you again; or they would send me up to you--and that, oh God, would
be infinitely worse. No, no, my beloved friend, do not let it come to
that, however dear poor Undine be to you." He promised solemnly to do
as she desired, and husband and wife returned from the apartment, full
of happiness and affection.

At that moment Bertalda appeared with some workmen to whom she had
already given orders, and said in the sullen tone which she had
assumed of late, "I suppose the secret conference is at an end, and
now the stone may be removed. Go out, workmen, and attend to it."
But the knight, angry at her impertinence, directed in short and very
decisive words that the stone should be left; he reproved Bertalda,
too, for her violence toward his wife. Whereupon the workmen withdrew,
smiling with secret satisfaction; while Bertalda, pale with rage,
hurried away to her rooms.

The hour for the evening repast arrived, and Bertalda was waited for
in vain. They sent after her, but the domestic found her apartments
empty, and only brought back with him a sealed letter addressed to the
knight. He opened it with alarm, and read: "I feel with shame that
I am only a poor fisher-girl. I will expiate my fault in having
forgotten this for a moment, by returning to the miserable cottage of
my parents. Farewell to you and your beautiful wife."

Undine was heartily distressed. She earnestly entreated Huldbrand to
hasten after their friend and bring her back again. Alas! she had no
need to urge him. His affection for Bertalda burst forth again with
vehemence. He hurried round the castle, inquiring if any one had seen
which way the beautiful fugitive had gone. He could learn nothing of
her and was already on his horse in the castle-yard, resolved to take
at a venture the road by which he had brought Bertalda hither. Just
then a page appeared, who assured him that he had met the lady on the
path to the Black Valley. Like an arrow the knight sprang through the
gate-way in the direction indicated, without hearing Undine's voice of
agony as she called to him from the window: "To the Black Valley! Oh,
not there! Huldbrand, don't go there! or, for Heaven's sake, take me
with you!" But when she perceived that all her calling was in vain,
she ordered her white palfrey to be saddled immediately and rode after
the knight without allowing any servant to accompany her.


CHAPTER XIV

How Bertalda returned home with the Knight


The Black Valley lies deep within the mountains. What it is now called
we do not know. At that time the people of the country gave it this
appellation on account of the deep obscurity in which the low land
lay, owing to the shadows of the lofty trees, and especially firs,
that grew there. Even the brook which bubbled between the rocks wore
the same dark hue, and dashed along with none of that gladness with
which streams are wont to flow that have the blue sky immediately
above them. Now, in the growing twilight of evening, it looked
altogether wild and gloomy between the heights. The knight trotted
anxiously along the edge of the brook, fearful at one moment that
by delay he might allow the fugitive to advance too far, and, at the
next, that by too great rapidity he might overlook her in case she
were concealing herself from him. Meanwhile he had already penetrated
quite a ways into the valley, and might soon hope to overtake the
maiden if he were on the right track, but the fear that this might not
be the case made his heart beat with anxiety. Where would the tender
Bertalda tarry through the stormy night, which was so fearful in the
valley, should he fail to find her? At length he saw something white
gleaming through the branches on the slope of the mountain. He
thought he recognized Bertalda's dress, and turned his course in that
direction. But his horse refused to go forward; it reared impatiently;
and its master, unwilling to lose a moment, and seeing moreover that
the copse was impassable on horseback, dismounted; then, fastening his
snorting steed to an elm-tree, he worked his way cautiously through
the bushes. The branches sprinkled his forehead and cheeks with the
cold drops of the evening dew; a distant roll of thunder was heard
murmuring from the other side of the mountains; everything looked so
strange that he began to feel a dread of the white figure which now
lay only a short distance from him on the ground. Still he could
plainly see that it was a woman, either asleep or in a swoon, and that
she was attired in long white garments such as Bertalda had worn
on that day. He stepped close up to her, made a rustling with the
branches, and let his sword clatter, but she moved not. "Bertalda!"
he exclaimed, at first in a low voice, and then louder and louder--but
still she heard not. At last, when he uttered the dear name with a
more powerful effort, a hollow echo from the mountain-caverns of the
valley indistinctly reverberated "Bertalda!" but still the sleeper
woke not. He bent down over her; the gloom of the valley and the
obscurity of approaching night would not allow him to distinguish her
features.

Just as he was stooping closer over her with a feeling of painful
doubt, a flash of lightning shot across the valley, he saw before him
a frightfully distorted countenance, and a hollow voice exclaimed,
"Give me a kiss, you enamoured swain!" Huldbrand sprang up with a
cry of horror, and the hideous figure rose with him. "Go home!" it
murmured; "wizards are on the watch. Go home, or I will have you!" and
it stretched out its long white arms toward him.

"Malicious Kühleborn!" cried the knight, recovering himself. "Hey,
'tis you, you goblin? There, take your kiss!" And he furiously hurled
his sword at the figure. But it vanished like vapor, and a gush of
water which wetted him through left the knight in no doubt as to the
foe with whom he had been engaged. "He wishes to frighten me back from
Bertalda," said he aloud to himself; "he thinks to terrify me with his
foolish tricks, and to make me give up the poor distressed girl to him
so that he can wreak his vengeance on her. But he shall not do
that, weak spirit of the elements as he is. No powerless phantom
may understand what a human heart can do when its best energies are
aroused." He felt the truth of his words, and that the very expression
of them had inspired his heart with fresh courage.

It seemed too as if fortune were on his side, for he had not reached
his fastened horse when he distinctly heard Bertalda's plaintive voice
not far distant, and could catch her weeping accents through the ever
increasing tumult of the thunder and tempest. He hurried swiftly
in the direction of the sound, and found the trembling girl just
attempting to climb the steep in order to escape in any way from the
dreadful gloom of the valley. He stepped, however, lovingly in her
path, and, bold and proud as her resolve had been before, she now felt
only too keenly the delight that the friend whom she so passionately
loved should rescue her from this frightful solitude, and that the
joyous life in the castle should be again open to her. She followed
almost unresisting, but so exhausted with fatigue that the knight
was glad to lead her to his horse, which he now hastily unfastened in
order to lift the fair fugitive upon it; and then, cautiously holding
the reins, he hoped to proceed through the uncertain shades of the
valley.

But the horse had become quite unmanageable from the wild apparition
of Kühleborn. Even the knight would have had difficulty in mounting
the rearing and snorting animal, but to place the trembling Bertalda
on its back was perfectly impossible. They determined therefore to
return home on foot. Leading the horse after him by the bridle, the
knight supported the tottering girl with his other hand. Bertalda
exerted all her strength to pass quickly through the fearful valley,
but weariness weighed her down like lead and every limb trembled,
partly from the terror she had endured when Kühleborn had pursued her,
and partly from her continued alarm at the howling of the storm and
the pealing of the thunder through the wooded mountain.

At last she slid from the supporting arm of her protector, and,
sinking down on the moss, exclaimed, "Let me lie here, my noble lord;
I suffer the punishment due to my folly, and I must now perish here
anyhow through weariness and dread."

"No, sweet friend, I will never leave you!" cried Huldbrand, vainly
endeavoring to restrain his furious steed; for, worse than before, it
now began to foam and rear with excitement, till at last the knight
was glad to keep the animal at a sufficient distance from the
exhausted maiden to save her from increasing fear. But scarcely had he
withdrawn a few paces with the wild steed than she began to call after
him in the most pitiful manner, believing that he was really going to
leave her in this horrible wilderness. He was utterly at a loss what
course to take. Gladly would he have given the excited beast its
liberty and have allowed it to rush away into the night and spend
its fury, had he not feared that in this narrow defile it might come
thundering with its iron-shod hoofs over the very spot where Bertalda
lay.

In the midst of this extreme perplexity and distress he heard with
delight the sound of a vehicle driving slowly down the stony road
behind them. He called out for help, and a man's voice replied,
promising assistance, but bidding him have patience; and, soon after,
two gray horses appeared through the bushes, and beside them the
driver in the white smock of a carter; a great white linen cloth was
next visible, covering the goods apparently contained in the wagon. At
a loud shout from their master the obedient horses halted. The driver
then came toward the knight and helped him restrain his foaming
animal. "I see well," said he, "what ails the beast. When I first
traveled this way my horses acted no better. The fact is, there is
an evil water-spirit haunting the place, and he takes delight in
this sort of mischief. But I have learned a charm; if you will let me
whisper it in your horse's ear he will stand at once just as quiet as
my gray beasts are doing there."

"Try your luck then, only help us quickly!" exclaimed the impatient
knight.

The wagoner then drew down the head of the rearing charger close to
his own, and whispered something in his ear. In a moment the animal
stood still and quiet, and his quick panting and reeking condition
were all that remained of his previous unmanageableness. Huldbrand had
no time to inquire how all this had been effected. He agreed with the
carter that he should take Bertalda on his wagon, where, as the man
assured him, there was a quantity of soft cotton bales upon which
she could be conveyed to Castle Ringstetten, and the knight was to
accompany them on horseback. But the horse appeared too much exhausted
by its past fury to be able to carry its master so far, so the Carter
persuaded Huldbrand to get into the wagon with Bertalda. The horse
could be tethered on behind. "We are going down hill," said he, "and
that will make it light for my gray beasts." The knight accepted
the offer and entered the wagon with Bertalda; the horse followed
patiently behind, and the wagoner, steady and attentive, walked by the
side.

In the stillness of the night, as its darkness deepened and the
subsiding tempest sounded more and more remote, encouraged by
the sense of security and their fortunate escape a confidential
conversation arose between Huldbrand and Bertalda. With flattering
words he reproached her for her daring flight; she excused herself
with humility and emotion, and from every word she said a gleam shone
forth which disclosed distinctly to the lover that the beloved was
his. The knight felt the sense of her words far more than he regarded
their meaning, and it was the sense alone to which he replied.
Presently the wagoner suddenly shouted with a loud voice. "Up, my
grays, up with your feet, keep together! Remember who you are!" The
knight leaned out of the wagon and saw that the horses were stepping
into the midst of a foaming stream or were already almost swimming,
while the wheels of the wagon were rushing round and gleaming like
mill-wheels, and the wagoner had climbed up in front in consequence of
the increasing waters.

"What sort of a road is this? It goes into the very middle of the
stream," cried Huldbrand to his guide.

"Not at all, sir," returned the other laughing, "it is just the
reverse; the stream goes into the very middle of our road. Look round
and see how every thing is covered by the water."

The whole valley indeed was suddenly filled with the surging flood,
that visibly increased. "It is Kühleborn, the evil water-spirit, who
wishes to drown us!" exclaimed the knight. "Have you no charm against
him, my friend?"

"I know indeed of one," returned the wagoner, "but I cannot and may
not use it until you know who I am."

"Is this a time for riddles?" cried the knight. "The flood is ever
rising higher, and what does it matter to me to know who you are?"

"It does matter to you, though," said the wagoner, "for I am
Kühleborn." So saying, he thrust his distorted face into the wagon
with a grin, but the wagon was a wagon no longer, the horses were not
horses--all was transformed to foam and vanished in the hissing waves,
and even the wagoner himself, rising as a gigantic billow, drew down
the vainly struggling horse beneath the waters, and then, swelling
higher and higher, swept over the heads of the floating pair, like
some liquid tower, threatening to bury them irrecoverably.

Just then the soft voice of Undine sounded through the uproar, the
moon emerged from the clouds, and by its light Undine was seen on
the heights above the valley. She rebuked, she threatened the floods
below; the menacing tower-like wave vanished, muttering and murmuring,
the waters flowed gently away in the moonlight, and, like a white
dove, Undine flew down from the height, seized the knight and
Bertalda, and bore them with her to a fresh, green, turfy spot on the
hill, where with choice refreshing restoratives she dispelled their
terrors and weariness; then she assisted Bertalda to mount the white
palfrey, on which she had herself ridden here, and thus all three
returned to Castle Ringstetten.


CHAPTER XV

The Journey to Vienna


After this last adventure they lived quietly and happily at the
castle. The knight more and more clearly perceived the heavenly
goodness of his wife, which had been so nobly exhibited by her pursuit
and her rescue in the Black Valley, where Kühleborn's power again
commenced; Undine herself felt that peace and security which is never
lacking to a mind so long as it is distinctly conscious of being on
the right path, and, besides, in the newly-awakened love and esteem of
her husband many a gleam of hope and joy shone upon her. Bertalda, on
the other hand, showed herself grateful, humble, and timid, without
regarding her conduct as anything meritorious. Whenever Huldbrand or
Undine were about to give her any explanation regarding the covering
of the fountain or the adventure in the Black Valley, she would
earnestly entreat them to spare her the recital, as she felt too much
shame at the recollection of the fountain and too much fear at the
remembrance of the Black Valley. She learned therefore nothing further
of either; and for what end was such knowledge necessary? Peace and
joy had visibly taken up their abode at Castle Ringstetten. They felt
secure on this point, and imagined that life could now produce nothing
but pleasant flowers and fruits.

In this happy condition of things winter had come and passed away, and
spring with its fresh green shoots and its blue sky was gladdening
the joyous inmates of the castle. Spring was in harmony with them,
and they with spring; what wonder then that its storks and swallows
inspired them also with a desire to travel? One day when they were
taking a pleasant walk to one of the sources of the Danube, Huldbrand
spoke of the magnificence of the noble river, how it widened as it
flowed through countries fertilized by its waters, how the charming
city of Vienna shone forth on its banks, and how with every step of
its course it increased in power and loveliness. "It must be glorious
to go down the river as far as Vienna!" exclaimed Bertalda, but
immediately relapsing into her present modesty and humility she paused
and blushed deeply.

This touched Undine deeply, and with the liveliest desire to give
pleasure to her friend she asked, "What hinders us from starting on
the little voyage?" Bertalda exhibited the greatest delight, and both
she and Undine began at once to picture in the brightest colors the
tour of the Danube. Huldbrand also gladly agreed to the prospect; only
he once whispered anxiously in Undine's ear, "But Kühleborn becomes
possessed of his power again out there!"

"Let him come," she replied with a smile; "I shall be there, and he
ventures upon none of his mischief before me." The last impediment was
thus removed; they prepared for the journey, and soon after set out
upon it with fresh spirits and the brightest hopes.

But wonder not, O man, if events always turn out different from what
we have intended! That malicious power, lurking for our destruction,
gladly lulls its chosen victim to sleep with sweet songs and golden
fairy tales; while on the other hand the rescuing messenger from
Heaven often knocks sharply and alarmingly at our door.

During the first few days of their voyage down the Danube they were
extremely happy. Everything grew more and more beautiful, as they
sailed further and further down the proudly flowing stream. But in a
region, otherwise so pleasant, and in the enjoyment of which they had
promised themselves the purest delight, the ungovernable Kühleborn
began, undisguisedly, to exhibit his power, which started again at
this point. This was indeed manifested in mere teasing tricks, for
Undine often rebuked the agitated waves or the contrary winds, and
then the violence of the enemy would be immediately submissive; but
again the attacks would be renewed, and again Undine's reproofs
would become necessary, so that the pleasure of the little party was
completely destroyed. The boatmen too were continually whispering to
one another in dismay and looking with distrust at the three strangers
whose servants even began more and more to forebode something uncanny
and to watch their masters with suspicious glances. Huldbrand often
said to himself, "This comes from like not being linked with like,
from a man uniting himself with a mermaid!" Excusing himself, as we
all love to do, he would often think indeed as he said this, "I did
not really know that she was a sea-maiden. Mine is the misfortune that
every step I take is disturbed and haunted by the wild caprices of her
race; but mine is not the guilt." By such thoughts as these he felt
himself in some measure strengthened, but, on the other hand, he felt
increasing ill-humor and almost animosity toward Undine. He would look
at her with an expression of anger, the meaning of which the poor
wife understood well. Wearied with this exhibition of displeasure and
exhausted by the constant effort to frustrate Kühleborn's artifices,
she sank one evening into a deep slumber, rocked soothingly by the
softly gliding bark.

Scarcely, however, had she closed her eyes when every one in the
vessel imagined he saw, in whatever direction he turned, a most
horrible human head; it rose out of the waves, not like that of a
person swimming, but perfectly perpendicular as if invisibly supported
upright on the watery surface and floating along in the same course
with the bark. Each wanted to point out to the other the cause of his
alarm, but each found the same expression of horror depicted on the
face of his neighbor, only that his hands and eyes were directed to a
different point where the monster, half laughing and half threatening,
rose before him. When, however, they all wished to make one another
understand what each saw, and all were crying out, "Look there--!
No--there!" the horrible heads all appeared simultaneously to their
view, and the whole river around the vessel swarmed with the most
hideous apparitions. The universal cry raised at the sight awoke
Undine. As she opened her eyes the wild crowd of distorted visages
disappeared. But Huldbrand was indignant at such unsightly jugglery.
He would have burst forth in uncontrolled imprecations had not Undine
said to him with a humble manner and a softly imploring tone, "For
God's sake, my husband, we are on the water; do not be angry with me
now." The knight was silent, and sat down absorbed in reverie. Undine
whispered in his ear, "Would it not be better, my love, if we gave up
this foolish journey and returned to Castle Ringstetten in peace?"

But Huldbrand murmured moodily, "So I must be a prisoner in my own
castle and be able to breathe only so long as the fountain is closed!
I would your mad kindred--" Undine lovingly pressed her fair hand upon
his lips. He paused, pondering in silence over much that Undine had
before said to him.

Bertalda had meanwhile given herself up to a variety of strange
thoughts. She knew a good deal of Undine's origin, and yet not the
whole, and the fearful Kühleborn especially had remained to her a
terrible but wholly unrevealed mystery. She had indeed never even
heard his name. Musing on these strange things, she unclasped,
scarcely conscious of the act; a gold necklace, which Huldbrand had
lately purchased for her of a traveling trader; half dreamingly she
drew it along the surface of the water, enjoying the light glimmer
it cast upon the evening-tinted stream. Suddenly a huge hand was
stretched out of the Danube, seizing the necklace and vanishing with
it beneath the waters. Bertalda screamed aloud, and a scornful laugh
resounded from the depths of the stream. The knight could now restrain
his anger no longer. Starting up, he inveighed against the river; he
cursed all who ventured to intrude upon his family and his life, and
challenged them, be they spirits or sirens, to show themselves before
his avenging sword.

Bertalda wept meanwhile for her lost ornament, which was so precious
to her, and her tears added fuel to the flame of the knight's anger,
while Undine held her hand over the side of the vessel, dipping it
into the water, softly murmuring to herself, and only now and then
interrupting her strange mysterious whisper, as she entreated her
husband, "My dearly loved one, do not scold me here; reprove others
if you will, but not me here. You know why!" And indeed, he restrained
the words of anger that were trembling on his tongue.

Presently in her wet hand which she had been holding under the waves
she brought up a beautiful coral necklace of so much brilliancy that
the eyes of all were dazzled by it. "Take this," said she, holding it
out kindly to Bertalda; "I have ordered this to be brought for you as
a compensation, and don't be grieved any more, my poor child."

But the knight sprang between them. He tore the beautiful ornament
from Undine's hand, hurled it again into the river, exclaiming in
passionate rage, "Have you then still a connection with them? In the
name of all the witches, remain among them with your presents and
leave us mortals in peace, you sorceress!" Poor Undine gazed at him
with fixed but tearful eyes, her hand still stretched out as when she
had offered her beautiful present so lovingly to Bertalda. She then
began to weep more and more violently, like a dear innocent child,
bitterly afflicted. At last, wearied out, she said: "Alas, sweet
friend, alas! farewell! They shall do you no harm; only remain true,
so that I may be able to keep them from you. I must, alas, go away; I
must go hence at this early stage of life. Oh woe, woe! What have you
done! Oh woe, woe!"

She vanished over the side of the vessel. Whether she plunged into the
stream or flowed away with it, they knew not; her disappearance was
like both and neither. Soon, however, she was completely lost sight of
in the Danube; only a few little waves kept whispering, as if sobbing,
round the boat, and they almost seemed to be saying: "Oh woe, woe! Oh,
remain true! Oh, woe!"

Huldbrand lay on the deck of the vessel, bathed in hot tears, and a
deep swoon presently cast its veil of forgetfulness over the unhappy
man.


_WILHELM HAUFF_

       *       *       *       *       *

  CAVALRYMAN'S MORNING SONG[47] (1826)


    Crimson morn,
  Shalt thou light me o'er Death's bourn?
  Soon will ring the trumpet's call;
  Then may I be marked to fall,
  I and many a comrade brave!
    Scarce enjoyed,
  Pleasure drops into the void.
  Yesterday on champing stallion;
  Picked today for Death's battalion;
  Couched tomorrow in the grave!

    Ah! how soon
  Fleeth grace and beauty's noon!
  Hast thou pride in cheeks aglow,
  Whereon cream and carmine flow?
  Ah! the loveliest rose turns sere!
    Therefore still
  I respond to God's high will.
  To the last stern fight I'll fit me;
  If to Death I must submit me,
  Dies a dauntless cavalier!

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE SENTINEL[48] (1827)


  Lonely at night my watch I keep,
  While all the world is hush'd in sleep.
  Then tow'rd my home my thoughts will rove;
  I think upon my distant love.

[Illustration: WILHELM HAUFF]

  When to the wars I march'd away,
  My hat she deck'd with ribbons gay;
  She fondly press'd me to her heart,
  And wept to think that we must part.

[Illustration: THE SENTINAL]

  Truly she loves me, I am sure,
  So ev'ry hardship I endure;
  My heart beats warm, though cold's the night;
  Her image makes the darkness bright.

  Now by the twinkling taper's gleam,
  Her bed she seeks, of me to dream,
  But ere she sleeps she kneels to pray
  For one who loves her far away.

  For me those tears thou needst not shed;
  No danger fills my heart with dread;
  The pow'rs who dwell in heav'n above
  Are ever watchful o'er thy love.

  The bell peals forth from yon watch-tower;
  The guard it changes at this hour.
  Sleep well! sleep well! my heart's with thee;
  And in your dreams remember me.


FRIEDRICH RÜCKERT

       *       *       *       *       *

  BARBAROSSA[49] (Between 1814 and 1817)


  The ancient Barbarossa,
    Friedrich, the Kaiser great,
  Within the castle-cavern
    Sits in enchanted state.

  He did not die; but ever
    Waits in the chamber deep,
  Where hidden under the castle
    He sat himself to sleep.

  The splendor of the Empire
    He took with him away,
  And back to earth will bring it
    When dawns the promised day.

  The chair is ivory purest
    Whereof he makes his bed;
  The table is of marble
    Whereon he props his head.

  His beard, not flax, but burning
    With fierce and fiery glow,
  Right through the marble table
    Beneath his chair does grow.

  He nods in dreams and winketh
    With dull, half-open eyes,
  And once a page he beckons beckons--
    A page that standeth by.

[Illustration: FRIEDRICH RÜCKERT]

  He bids the boy in slumber
    "O dwarf, go up this hour,
  And see if still the ravens
    Are flying round the tower;

  And if the ancient ravens
    Still wheel above us here,
  Then must I sleep enchanted
    For many a hundred year."

       *       *       *       *       *

  FROM MY CHILDHOOD DAYS[50] (1817, 1818)


  From my childhood days, from my childhood days,
    Rings an old song's plaintive tone--
  Oh, how long the ways, oh, how long the ways
    I since have gone!

  What the swallow sang, what the swallow sang,
    In spring or in autumn warm--
  Do its echoes hang, do its echoes hang
    About the farm?

  "When I went away, when I went away,
    Full coffers and chests were there;
  When I came today, when I came today,
    All, all was bare!"

  Childish lips so wise, childish lips so wise,
    With a lore as rich as gold,
  Knowing all birds' cries, knowing all birds' cries,
    Like the sage of old!

  Ah, the dear old place--ah, the dear old place * * *
    May its sweet consoling gleam
  Shine upon my face, shine upon my face,
    Once in a dream!

  When I went away, when I went away,
    Full of joy the world lay there;
  When I came today, when I came today,
    All, all was bare.

  Still the swallows come, still the swallows come,
    And the empty chest is filled--
  But this longing dumb, but this longing dumb
    Shall ne'er be stilled.

  Nay, no swallow brings, nay, no swallow brings
    Thee again where thou wast before--
  Though the swallow sings, though the swallow sings,
    Still as of yore.

  "When I went away, when I went away,
    Full coffers and chests were there;
  When I came today, when I came today,
    All, all was bare!"

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE SPRING OF LOVE[51] (1821)


  Dearest, thy discourses steal
    From my bosom's deep, my heart
  How can I from thee conceal
    My delight, my sorrow's smart?

  Dearest, when I hear thy lyre
    From its chains my soul is free.
  To the holy angel quire
    From the earth, O let us flee!

[Illustration: MEMORIES OF YOUTH]

  Dearest, how thy music's charms
    Waft me dancing through the sky!
  Let me round thee clasp my arms,
    Lest in glory I should die!

  Dearest, sunny wreaths I wear,
    Twined around me by thy lay.
  For thy garlands, rich and rare,
    O how can I thank thee? Say!

  Like the angels I would be
    Without mortal frame,
  Whose sweet converse is like thought,
    Sounding with acclaim;

  Or like flowers in the dale;
    Like the stars that glow,
  Whose love-song's a beam, whose words
    Like sweet odors flow;

  Or like to the breeze of morn,
    Waving round its rose,
  In love's dallying caress
    Melting as it blows.

  But the love-lorn nightingale
    Melteth not away;
  She doth but with longing tones
    Chant her plaintive lay.

  I am, too, a nightingale,
    Songless though I sing;
  'Tis my pen that speaks, though ne'er
    In the ear it ring.

  Beaming images of thought
    Doth the pen portray;
  But without thy gentle smile
    Lifeless e'er are they.

  As thy look falls on the leaf,
    It begins to sing,
  And the prize that's due to love
    In her ear doth ring.

  Like a Memmon's statue now
    Every letter seems,
  Which in music wakes, when kissed
    By the morning's beams.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "HE CAME TO MEET ME"[52] (1821)


  He came to meet me
    In rain and thunder;
  My heart 'gan beating
    In timid wonder.
  Could I guess whither
  Thenceforth together
    Our path should run, so long asunder?

  He came to meet me
    In rain and thunder,
  With guile to cheat me--
    My heart to plunder.
  Was't mine he captured?
  Or his I raptured?
    Half-way both met, in bliss and wonder!

  He came to meet me
    In rain and thunder;
  Spring-blessings greet me
    Spring-blossoms under.
  What though he leave me?
  No partings grieve me--
    No path can lead our hearts asunder.

       *       *       *       *       *
  THE INVITATION[53] (1821)


  Thou, thou art rest
    And peace of soul--
  Thou woundst the breast
    And makst it whole.

  To thee I vow
    'Mid joy or pain
  My heart, where thou
    Mayst aye remain.

  Then enter free,
    And bar the door
  To all but thee
    Forevermore.

  All other woes
    Thy charms shall lull;
  Of sweet repose
    This heart be full.

  My worshipping eyes
    Thy presence bright
  Shall still suffice,
    Their only light.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MURMUR NOT[54]


  Murmur not and say thou art in fetters holden,
    Murmur not that thou earth's heavy yoke must bear.
  Say not that a prison is this world so golden--
    'Tis thy murmurs only set its harsh walls there.

  Question not how shall this riddle find its reading;
    It will solve itself full soon without thine aid.
  Say not love hath turned his back, and left thee bleeding--
    Whom hath love deserted, hast thou heard it said?

  If death tries to fright thee, fear not beyond measure;
    He will flee from those who boldly face his frown.
  Hunt not thou the fleeting deer of worldly pleasure--
    Lion it will turn, and hunt the hunter down.
  Chain thyself no longer, heart, to any treasure;
    Then thou shalt not say thou art into fetters thrown.

       *       *       *       *       *

  A PARABLE[55] (1822)


  In Syria walked a man one day
  And led a camel on the way.
  A sudden wildness seized the beast,
  And as they strove its rage increased.
  So fearsome grew its savagery
  That for his life the man must flee.
  And as he ran, he spied a cave
  That one last chance of safety gave.
  He heard the snorting beast behind
  Come nearer--with distracted mind
  Leaped where the cooling fountain sprang,
  Yet not to fall, but catch and hang;
  By lucky hap a bramble wild
  Grew where the o'erhanging rocks were piled.
  He saved himself by this alone,
  And did his hapless state bemoan.
  He looked above, and there was yet
  Too close the furious camel's threat
  That still of fearful rage was full.
  He dropped his eyes toward the pool,
  And saw within the shadows dim
  A dragon's jaws agape for him--
  A still more fierce and dangerous foe
  If he should slip and fall below.
  So, hanging midway of the two,
  He spied a cause of terror new:
  Where to the rock's deep crevice clung
  The slender root on which he swung,
  A little pair of mice he spied,
  A black and white one side by side--
  First one and then the other saw
  The slender stem alternate gnaw.
  They gnawed and bit with ceaseless toil,
  And from the roots they tossed the soil.
  As down it ran in trickling stream,
  The dragon's eyes shot forth a gleam
  Of hungry expectation, gazed
  Where o'er him still the man was raised,
  To see how soon the bush would fall,
  The burden that it bore, and all.
  That man in utmost fear and dread
  Surrounded, threatened, hard bested,
  In such a state of dire suspense
  Looked vainly round for some defense.
  And as he cast his bloodshot eye
  First here, then there, saw hanging nigh
  A branch with berries ripe and red;
  Then longing mastered all his dread;
  No more the camel's rage he saw,
  Nor yet the lurking dragon's maw,
  Nor malice of the gnawing mice,
  When once the berries caught his eyes.
  The furious beast might rage above,
  The dragon watch his every move,
  The mice gnaw on--naught heeded he,
  But seized the berries greedily--
  In pleasing of his appetite
  The furious beast forgotten quite.

  You ask, "What man could ever yet,
  So foolish, all his fears forget?"
  Then know, my friend, that man are you--
  And see the meaning plain to view.
  The dragon in the pool beneath
  Sets forth the yawning jaws of death;
  The beast from which you helpless flee
  Is life and all its misery.
  There you must hang 'twixt life and death
  While in this world you draw your breath.
  The mice, whose pitiless gnawing teeth
  Will let you to the pool beneath
  Fall down, a hopeless castaway,
  Are but the change of night and day.
  The black one gnaws concealed from sight
  Till comes again the morning light;
  From dawn until the eve is gray,
  Ceaseless the white one gnaws away.
  And, 'midst this dreadful choice of ills,
  Pleasure of sense your spirit fills
  Till you forget the terrors grim
  That wait to tear you limb from limb,
  The gnawing mice of day and night,
  And pay no heed to aught in sight
  Except to fill your mouth with fruit
  That in the grave-clefts has its root.

       *       *       *       *       *

  EVENING SONG[56] (1823)


  I stood on the mountain summit,
    At the hour when the sun did set;
  I mark'd how it hung o'er the woodland
    The evening's golden net.

  And, with the dew descending,
    A peace on the earth there fell--
  And nature lay hushed in quiet,
    At the voice of the evening bell.

  I said, "O heart, consider
    What silence all things keep,
  And with each child of the meadow
    Prepare thyself to sleep!

  "For every flower is closing
    In silence its little eye;
  And every wave in the brooklet
    More softly murmureth by.

  "The weary caterpillar
    Hath nestled beneath the weeds;
  All wet with dew now slumbers
    The dragon-fly in the reeds.

  "The golden beetle hath laid him
    In a rose-leaf cradle to rock;
  Now went to their nightly shelter
    The shepherd and his flock.

  "The lark from on high is seeking
    In the moistened grass her nest;
  The hart and the hind have laid them
    In their woodland haunt to rest.

  "And whoso owneth a cottage
    To slumber hath laid him down;
  And he that roams among strangers
    In dreams shall behold his own."

  And now doth a yearning seize me,
    At this hour of peace and love,
  That I cannot reach the dwelling,
    The home that is mine, above.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CHIDHER[57] (1824)


  Chidher, the ever youthful, told:
    I passed a city, bright to see;
  A man was culling fruits of gold,
    I asked him how old this town might be.
  He answered, culling as before
  "This town stood ever in days of yore,
  And will stand on forevermore!"
    Five hundred years from yonder day
    I passed again the selfsame way,

  And of the town I found no trace;
    A shepherd blew on a reed instead;
  His herd was grazing on the place.
    "How long," I asked, "is the city dead?"
  He answered, blowing as before
  "The new crop grows the old one o'er,
  This was my pasture evermore!"
    Five hundred years from yonder day
    I passed again the selfsame way.

  A sea I found, the tide was full,
    A sailor emptied nets with cheer;
  And when he rested from his pull,
    I asked how long that sea was here.
  Then laughed he with a hearty roar
  "As long as waves have washed this shore
  They fished here ever in days of yore."
    Five hundred years from yonder day
    I passed again the selfsame way.

  I found a forest settlement,
    And o'er his axe, a tree to fell,
  I saw a man in labor bent.
    How old this wood I bade him tell.
  "'Tis everlasting, long before
  I lived it stood in days of yore,"
  He quoth; "and shall grow evermore."
    Five hundred years from yonder day
    I passed again the selfsame way.

  I saw a town; the market-square
    Was swarming with a noisy throng.
  "How long," I asked, "has this town been there?
    Where are wood and sea and shepherd's song?"
  They cried, nor heard among the roar
  "This town was ever so before,
  And so will live forevermore!"
    "Five hundred years from yonder day
    I want to pass the selfsame way."

       *       *       *       *       *

  AT FORTY YEARS[58] (1832)


  When for forty years we've climbed the rugged mountain,
    We stop and backward gaze;
  Yonder still we see our childhood's peaceful fountain,
    And youth exulting strays.

  One more glance behind, and then, new strength acquiring,
    Staff grasped, no longer stay;
  See, a further slope, a long one, still aspiring
    Ere downward turns the way!

  Take a brave long breath and toward the summit hie thee--
    The goal shall draw thee on;
  When thou think'st it least, the destined end is nigh thee--
    Sudden, the journey's done!

       *       *       *       *       *

  BEFORE THE DOORS[59]


  I went to knock at Riches' door;
  They threw me a farthing the threshold o'er.

  To the door of Love did I then repair--
  But fifteen others already were there.

  To Honor's castle I took my flight--
  They opened to none but to belted knight.

  The house of Labor I sought to win--
  But I heard a wailing sound within.

  To the house of Content I sought the way--
  But none could tell me where it lay.

  One quiet house I yet could name,
  Where last of all, I'll admittance claim;

  Many the guests that have knocked before,
  But still--in the grave--there's room for more.

[Illustration: AUGUST GRAF VON PLATEN-HALLERMUND]


_AUGUST VON PLATEN-HALLERMUND_

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE PILGRIM BEFORE ST. JUST'S[60] (1819)


  'Tis night, and tempests whistle o'er the moor;
  Oh, Spanish father, ope the door!
  Deny me not the little boon I crave,
  Thine order's vesture, and a grave!
  Grant me a cell within thy convent-shrine--
  Half of this world, and more, was mine;
  The head that to the tonsure now stoops down
  Was circled once by many a crown;
  The shoulders fretted now with shirt of hair
  Did once the imperial ermine wear.
  Now am I as the dead, e'er death is come,
  And sink in ruins like old Rome.

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE GRAVE OF ALARIC[61] (1820)


  On Busento's grassy banks a muffled chorus echoes nightly,
  While the swirling eddies answer and the wavelets ripple lightly.

  Up and down the river, shades of Gothic warriors watch are keeping,
  For they mourn their people's hero, Alaric, with sobs of weeping.

  All too soon and far from home and kindred here to rest they laid him,
  While in youthful beauty still his flowing golden curls arrayed him.

  And along the river's bank a thousand hands with eager striving
  Labored long, another channel for Busento's tide contriving.

  Then a cavern deep they hollowed in the river-bed depleted,
  Placed therein the dead king, clad in proof, upon his charger seated.

  O'er him and his proud array the earth they filled, and covered loosely,
  So that on their hero's grave the water-plants would grow profusely.

  And again the course they altered of Busento's waters troubled;
  In its ancient channel rushed the current--foamed, and hissed, and bubbled.

  And the Goths in chorus chanted: "Hero, sleep! Tiny fame immortal
  Roman greed shall ne'er insult, nor break thy tomb's most sacred portal!"

  Thus they sang, and paeans sounded high above the fight's commotion;
  Onward roll, Busento's waves, and bear them to the farthest ocean!

       *       *       *       *       *

  REMORSE[62] (1820)


  How I started up in the night, in the night,
    Drawn on without rest or reprieval!
  The streets with their watchmen were lost to my sight,
        As I wandered so light
        In the night, in the night,
    Through the gate with the arch medieval.

[Illustration: THE MORNING HOUR]

  The mill-brook rushed from its rocky height;
    I leaned o'er the bridge in my yearning;
  Deep under me watched I the waves in their flight,
        As they glided so light
        In the night, in the night,
    Yet backward not one was returning.

  O'erhead were revolving, so countless and bright,
    The stars in melodious existence;
  And with them the moon, more serenely bedight;
        They sparkled so light
        In the night, in the night,
    Through the magical, measureless distance.

  And upward I gazed in the night, in the night,
    And again on the waves in their fleeting;
  Ah woe! thou hast wasted thy days in delight;
        Now silence, thou light,
        In the night, in the night,
    The remorse in thy heart that is beating.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WOULD I WERE FREE AS ARE MY DREAMS[63] (1822)


  Would I were free as are my dreams,
    Sequestered from the garish crowd
  To glide by banks of quiet streams
    Cooled by the shadow-drifting cloud!

  Free to shake off this weary weight
    Of human sin, and rest instead
  On nature's heart inviolate--
    All summer singing o'er my head!

  There would I never disembark,
    Nay, only graze the flowery shore
  To pluck a rose beneath the lark,
    Then go my liquid way once more,

  And watch, far off, the drowsy lines
    Of herded cattle crop and pass,
  The vintagers among the vines,
    The mowers in the dewy grass;

  And nothing would I drink or eat
    Save heaven's clear sunlight and the spring
  Of earth's own welling waters sweet,
    That never make the pulses sting.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SONNET[64] (1822)


  Oh, he whose pain means life, whose life means pain,
    May feel again what I have felt before;
    Who has beheld his bliss above him soar
  And, when he sought it, fly away again;
  Who in a labyrinth has tried in vain,
    When he has lost his way, to find a door;
    Whom love has singled out for nothing more
  Than with despondency his soul to bane;
  Who begs each lightning for a deadly stroke,
    Each stream to drown the heart that cannot heal
  From all the cruel stabs by which it broke;
    Who does begrudge the dead their beds like steel
  Where they are safe from love's beguiling yoke--
    He knows me quite, and feels what I must feel.


FOOTNOTES:


[Footnote 1: From Addresses on Religion (Discourse IV).]

[Footnote 2: This refers to the second book, which takes the form of a
dialogue between the inquirer and a Spirit.]

[Footnote 3: An allusion to the second book.]

[Footnote 4: The audience gathered in the building of the Royal
Academy at Berlin.--ED.]

[Footnote 5: J.G. Hamann. _Hellenistische Briefe_ I, 189.]

[Footnote 6: Goethe. _Werke_ (1840) xxx., 352. Mr. Ward's translation
of Goethe's "Essays on Art," p. 76.]

[Footnote 7: Selections translated by Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 8: Permission George Bell & Son, London.]

[Footnote 9: Translator: H.W. Dulcken. Permission Ward, Lock & Company,
Ltd., London.]

[Footnote 10: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 11: Translator: C.T. Brooks.]

[Footnote 12: Translator: Herman Montagu Donner.]

[Footnote 13: Translator: C.T. Brooks.]

[Footnote 14: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 15: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 16: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 17: Translator: C.T. Brooks.]

[Footnote 18: Translator: W.W. Skeat.]

[Footnote 19: Translator: Henry W. Longfellow.]

[Footnote 20: Translator: C.T. Brooks.]

[Footnote 21: Translator: Percy Mackaye.]

[Footnote 22: Translator: Alfred Baskerville.]

[Footnote 23: Translator: W.W. Skeat. From _Representative German
Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 24: Translator: W.W. Skeat. From _Representative German
Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 25: Translator: H.W. Dulcken. Permission Ward, Lock &
Company, Ltd., London.]

[Footnote 26: Translator: W.H. Furness.]

[Footnote 27: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg]

[Footnote 28: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 29: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 30: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 31: Translator: C.T. Brooks.]

[Footnote 32: Translator: W.H. Furness.]

[Footnote 33: Translator: Henry W. Longfellow. From _Representative
German Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 34: Translator: Kate Freiligrath-Kroeker. Permission William
Heinemann, London.]

[Footnote 35: Translator: C.G. Leland. From _Representative German
Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 36: Translator: Alfred Baskerville.]

[Footnote 37: Translator: Alfred Baskerville.]

[Footnote 38: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman]

[Footnote 39: Translator: Alfred Baskerville]

[Footnote 40: Translators: Bayard Taylor and Lilian Bayard Taylor
Kiliani. From _A Sheaf of Poems_, permission R.G. Badger, Boston.]

[Footnote 41: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 42: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 43: From the _Foreign Quarterly_]

[Footnote 44: Chapters 2, 6, 8.]

[Footnote 45: An imaginary musical enthusiast of whom Hoffmann has
written much; under the fiery, sensitive, wayward character of this
crazy bandmaster, presenting, it would seem, a shadowy likeness
of himself. The _Kreisleriana_ occupy a large space among these
_Fantasy-pieces_; and Johannes Kreisler is the main figure in _Kater
Murr_, Hoffmann's favorite but unfinished work. In the third and last
volume, Kreisler was to end, not in composure and illumination, as the
critics would have required, but in utter madness: a sketch of a wild,
flail-like scarecrow, dancing vehemently and blowing soap-bubbles, and
which had been intended to front the last title-page, was found
among Hoffmann's papers, and engraved and published in his _Life and
Remains_.]

[Footnote 46: Permission Bernhard Tauchnitz, Leipzig.]

[Footnote 47: Translator: Herman Montagu Donner.]

[Footnote 48: Translator: John Oxenford. From _Representative German
Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 49: Translators: Bayard Taylor and Lilian Bayard Taylor
Kiliani.

From _A Sheaf of Poems_, permission R.G. Badger, Boston.]

[Footnote 50: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.

This is a working-over of an old popular song in imitation of the
swallow's cry, found in various dialect-forms in different parts of
Germany. The most widespread version is:

  Wenn ich wegzieh', wenn ich wegzieh',
    Sind Kisten and Kasten voll!'
  Wann ich wiederkomm', wann ich wiederkomm',
    Ist alles verzehrt.]

[Footnote 51: Translator: Alfred Baskerville.]

[Footnote 52: Translator: Bayard Taylor. From _Representative German
Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 53: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 54: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 55: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 56: Translator: H.W. Dulcken. From _Book of German Songs_,
permission Ward, Lock & Company, Ltd., London.]

[Footnote 57: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

[Footnote 58: Translator: A.I. du P. Coleman.]

[Footnote 59: Translator: H.W. Dulcken. Permission Ward, Lock & Company,
Ltd., London.]

[Footnote 60: Translator: Lord Lindsay. From _Ballads, Songs and
Poems_.]

[Footnote 61: Translators: Bayard Taylor and Lilian Bayard Taylor
Kiliani. From _A Sheaf of Poems_, permission R.G. Badger, Boston.]

[Footnote 62: Translator: Henry W. Longfellow. From _Representative
German Poems_, Henry Holt & Co., New York.]

[Footnote 63: Translator: Percy MacKaye.]

[Footnote 64: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]