A word or two on the embellishments and we have done. These are
far behind the literary merits of the volume, and are discreditable
productions. Where so much is well done it were better to omit
engravings altogether than adopt such as these: "they imitate nature
so abominably." The group at page 223 is a fair specimen of the whole,
than which nothing can be more lifeless. After the excellent cuts of
Mr. London's Gardener's and Natural History Magazines, we turn away
from these with pain, and it must be equally vexatious to the editor
to see such accompaniments to his pages.

[Footnote 5: Picturesque Promenade round Dorking. Second Edit. 12mo.
1823, p. 258, 259.]

[Footnote 6: Ibid p. 143.]

[Footnote 7: The Alpenstock, by C.J. Latrobe, 1829.]

[Footnote 8: Gray's Alliance of Education and Government.]

[Footnote 9: See the second Georgic of Virgil.]

       *       *       *       *       *


SHAKSPEARE'S BROOCH.

[Illustration]

(_TO THE EDITOR OF THE MIRROR._)

Having frequently observed in your valuable publication the great
attention which you have paid to every thing relating to the "Immortal
Bard of Avon," I beg leave to transmit to you two drawings (the one
back, the other front) of a brooch or buckle, found near the residence
of the poet, at New Place, Stratford, among the rubbish brought out
from the spot where the house stood. This brooch is considered by the
most competent judges and antiquarians in and near Stratford, to have
been the personal property of Shakspeare. A. is the back; 1 and 2,
faint traces of the letters which were nearly obliterated, by the
person who found the relic, in scraping to ascertain whether the
metal was precious, the whole of it being covered with gangrene
or verdigris. 3 and 4 are the remains of the hinge to the pin.
Fortunately the W. at the corner was preserved. B. represents the
front of the brooch; 1, 3, and 5, are red stones in the top part
(similar in shape to a coronet) 2 and 4 are blue stones in the same;
the other stones in the bottom or heart are white, though varying
rather in hue, and all are set in silver.

HJTHWC.

N.B. The above is shown to the curious by the individual who found
it--a poor man named Smith, living in Sheep Street, Stratford.

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

The greater portion of the following Notes will, we are persuaded, be
new to all but the bibliomaniacs in theatrical lore. They occur in a
paper of 45 pages in the last Edinburgh Review, in which the writer
attributes the Decline of the Drama to a variety of causes--as
late hours, costly representations, high salaries, and excessive
taxation--some of which we have selected for extract. In our affection
for the Stage, we have paid some attention to its history, as well
as to its recent state, and readily do we subscribe to a few of the
Reviewer's opinions of the cause of its neglect. But to attribute this
falling off to "taxes innumerable" is rather too broad: perhaps the
highly-taxed wax lights around the box circles suggested this new
light. We need not go so far to detect the rottenness of the dramatic
state; still, as the question involves controversy at every point,
we had rather keep out of the fight, and leave our Reviewer without
further note or comment.


NOTES ON THE DRAMA.

(_FROM THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, NO. 98._)

_ORIGIN OF ADMISSION MONEY._

There were at Athens various funds, applicable to public purposes; one
of which, and among the most considerable, was appropriated for the
expensed of sacrifices, processions, festivals, spectacles, and of
the theatres. The citizens were admitted to the theatres for some time
gratis; but in consequence of the disturbances caused by multitudes
crowding to get seats, to introduce order, and as the phrase is,
to keep out improper persons, a small sum of money was afterwards
demanded for admission. That the poorer classes, however, might not
be deprived of their favourite gratification, they received from the
treasury, out of this fund, the price of a seat--and thus peace and
regularity were secured, and the fund still applied to its original
purpose. The money that was taken at the doors, having served as a
ticket, was expended, together with that which had not been used in
this manner, to maintain the edifice itself, and to pay the manifold
charges of the representation.

"_DRAMATIC REPRESENTATIONS NATURAL TO MAN._"

Travellers inform us, that savages, even in a very rude state, are
found to divert themselves by imitating some common event in life: but
it is not necessary to leave our own quiet homes to satisfy ourselves,
that dramatic representations are natural to man. All children
delight in mimicking action; many of their amusements consist in such
performances, and are in every sense _plays_. It is curious, indeed,
to observe at how early an age the young of the most imitative animal,
man, begin to copy the actions of others; how soon the infant displays
its intimate conviction of the great truth, that "all the world's a
Stage." The baby does not imitate those acts only, that are useful
and necessary to be learned; but it instinctively mocks useless and
unimportant actions and unmeaning sounds, for its amusement, and for
the mere pleasure of imitation, and is evidently much delighted
when it is successful. The diversions of children are very commonly
dramatic. When they are not occupied with their hoops, tops, and
balls, or engaged in some artificial game, they amuse themselves in
playing at soldiers, in being at school, or at church, in going to
market, in receiving company; and they imitate the various employments
of life with so much fidelity, that the theatrical critic, who
delights in chaste acting, will often find less to censure in his own
little servants in the nursery, than in his majesty's servants in a
theatre-royal. When they are somewhat older they dramatize the stories
they read; most boys have represented Robin Hood, or one of his
merry-men, and every one has enacted the part of Robinson Crusoe,
and his man Friday. We have heard of many extraordinary tastes and
antipathies; but we never knew an instance of a young person, who
was not delighted the first time he visited a theatre. The true
enjoyment of life consists in action; and happiness, according to
the peripatetic definition, is to be found in energy; it accords,
therefore, with the nature and etymology of the drama, which is,
in truth, not less natural than agreeable. Its grand divisions
correspond, moreover, with those of time; the contemplation of the
present is Comedy--mirth for the most part being connected with the
present only--and the past and the future are the dominions of the
Tragic muse.

_GRECIAN THEATRES._

The climate of Athens being one of the finest and most agreeable in
the world, the Athenians passed the greatest part of their time in the
open air; and their theatres, like those in the rest of Greece and
in ancient Rome, had no other covering than the sky. Their structure
accordingly differed greatly from that of a modern playhouse, and the
representation in many respects was executed in a different manner.
But we will mention those peculiarities only which are necessary to
render our observations intelligible.

The ancient theatres, in the first place, were on a much larger scale
than any that have been constructed in later days. It would have
been impossible, by reason of the magnitude of the edifice, and
consequently of the stage, to have changed the scenes in the same
manner as in our smaller buildings. The scene, as it was called, was
a permanent structure, and resembled the front of Somerset House, of
the Horse Guards, or the Tuileries, and was in the same style of
architecture as the rest of the spacious edifice. There were three
large gateways, through each of which a view of streets, or of woods,
or of whatever was suitable to the action represented, was displayed;
this painting was fixed upon a triangular frame, that turned on an
axis, like a swivel seal, or ring, so that any one of the three
sides might be presented to the spectators, and perhaps the two that
were turned away might be covered with other subjects, if it were
necessary. If parts of Regent Street, or of Whitehall, or the Mansion
House, and the Bank of England, were shown through the openings in
the fixed scene, it would be plain that the fable was intended to be
referred to London; and it would be removed to Edinburgh, or Paris,
if the more striking portions of those cities were thus exhibited. The
front of the scene was broken by columns, by bays and promontories in
the line of the building, which gave beauty and variety to the façade,
and aided the deception produced by the paintings that were seen
through the three openings. In the Roman Theatres there were commonly
two considerable projections, like large bow-windows, or bastions,
in the spaces between the apertures; this very uneven line afforded
assistance to the plot, in enabling different parties to be on the
stage at the same time, without seeing one another. The whole front of
the stage was called the scene, or covered building, to distinguish it
from the rest of the theatre, which was open to the air, except that
a covered portico frequently ran round the semicircular part of the
edifice at the back of the highest row of seats, which answered to
our galleries, and was occupied, like them, by the gods, who stood in
crowds upon the level floor of their celestial abodes.

Immediately in front of the stage, as with us, was the orchestra;
but it was of much larger dimensions, not only positively, but
in proportion to the theatre. In our playhouses it is exclusively
inhabited by fiddles and their fiddlers; the ancients appropriated it
to more dignified purposes; for there stood the high altar of Bacchus,
richly ornamented and elevated, and around it moved the sacred Chorus
to solemn measures, in stately array and in magnificent vestments,
with crowns and incense, chanting at intervals their songs, and
occupied in their various rites, as we have before mentioned. It is
one of the many instances of uninterrupted traditions, that this part
of our theatres is still devoted to receive musicians, although,
in comparison with their predecessors, they are of an ignoble and
degenerate race.

