Produced by Jonathan Ingram, David Garcia and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIV, NO. 399.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.


Verona

[Illustration: Verona.]


SPIRIT OF THE ANNUALS FOR 1830.


Fair and gentle readers, we present you with a kaleidoscopic view of
some of these elegant trifles--the very _bijouterie_ of art and
literature--in picture outmastering each other in gems of ingenuity, and
in print, exalting a thousand beautiful fancies into a halo of harmony
and happiness for the coming year. We call these "trifles," but in the
best sense of the term--ay, the air-plants of literature, whose light
flowers and fancies shoot up and entwine with our best affections, and
even lend a charm to the loveliest of their objects.

We commence with

The Gem,

almost the "youngling of the flock," which contains the original of the
annexed Engraving, by W.J. Cooke, appended to which is the following
illustrative sketch:--


VERONA.

_By Mrs. Maria Callcott_.


The drawing from which our engraving is made, is one of the relics of
the late Mr. Bonington, whose early death has caused such great and just
regret to the lovers of painting. It represents one of those ancient
towers, and one of those magnificent palaces, (the Maffei Palace), which
distinguish the city of Verona, and, by their peculiar character mark it
both as the ancient Gothic capital of northern Italy, and as one of the
great principalities of the middle ages.

Verona is indebted to nature for part of the charms it possesses for a
traveller. It is nearly surrounded by the broad and rapid Adige: the
hills towards the Tyrol have a majestic character, which, as they
approach the city, is softened by vineyards, and fields, and gardens,
between agreeable villas or groves of cypress. The dress of the people
is picturesque; their habits are cheerful, and their manners kindly.

Besides all this, there is scarcely a city, even in Italy, to which we
attach a more romantic interest than to Verona. Under its ancient Gothic
name of Bern, it is the scene of many of the Teutonic tales which are
woven into the Book of Heroes, and the song of the Nibelung. The poets
and novelists of the middle ages have also laid the scenes of many of
their enchanting tales in this beautiful city; and our own Shakspeare
has brought Verona so home to every English reader, that we feel almost
to have a right of possession in the place.

Originally a city of the Rhetians, Verona became a Roman colony about
the time of Julius Caeser, who caused its inhabitants to be enrolled
among the number of Roman citizens. Its most flourishing periods under
the empire were the reigns of Vaspasian and of Hadrian, when various
temples, and other public buildings, of which some fragments still
remain, were erected, and the magnificent ampitheatre, which is still
used for scenic representations, was built. It was under the reign of
Trajan, that Verona received its first Christian Bishop, Euprepius; and
in that of Dioclesian, that its martyrs, Fermus and Rusticus, suffered.
The conquest of the city by Constantine, and the fearful battle fought
in its immediate neighbourhood between Stilicho and Attila, produced
little change in the condition of Verona, which continued to partake of
the general fortunes of the empire, until the reign of Theodoric the
Great.

After the invasion of Italy by the Ostrogoths, under Theodoric, and his
victory over Odoacer, which ensured him the sovereignty of the country,
from the Alps to Calabria, about the year 493, he fixed his capital at
Verona, or, as it was called by the Goths, Bern:[1] there he built a
magnificent palace, which communicated, by a continued portico,
with principal gate of the city. He renewed the Roman walls and
fortifications, repaired the aqueducts, and constructed commodious
baths and other public buildings.[2]

    [1] See Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," chap. 39, for the general
        conduct of Theodoric in Italy.

    [2] Tiraboschi, book i.

After the death of Theodoric, A.D. 526, in the 37th year of his reign,
the disturbed reigns of his daughter Amalasontha and her son Athalaric
were an earnest of the distractions that Verona suffered, in common with
the rest of Italy, till the taking of the city by Charlemagne, when a
short period of tranquillity was enjoyed. Yet there a part of the great
family tragedy, which secured his possession of the empire, was acted.
He found in the town the widow and children of his brother Carloman, and
they were sacrificed to his security. His eldest son, Pepin Hunchback,
died at Verona, and was buried in St. Zeno's church, which he had
founded. The present magnificent temple stands nearly on the site of
Pepin's humbler foundation; and the great stone, now shown in the court,
called the tomb of King Pepin, is very possibly that of Charlemagne's
son.

During the disastrous period that followed, Verona underwent all the
evils that its situation (at the very entrance to Italy from Germany)
was so peculiarly calculated to draw upon it. The invasions of the
Othos, the wars of the Guelfs and Ghibelines, the struggles of the
people against oppression, and between the oppressors for power, from
time to time distressed the city and robbed the citizens. Yet the very
struggle for freedom and power ensured a portion of the former to the
people, who were courted by all parties; and Verona became rich by the
visits of her masters, and of such as courted her assistance. But it was
in the thirteenth century that she became the queen of northern Italy,
under the reign of the Scaligers, or della Scalas, who, from simple
citizens, were raised, by their valour, their humanity, and the free
choice of the people, to the sovereignty of the state.

During one hundred and twenty-seven years, ten princes of that
illustrious house reigned in Verona. The first six were men of
extraordinary talent, and, for the time in which they lived, of
extraordinary virtue. They not only enlarged the boundaries of the
Veronese, but subjected several distant cities. Albert della Scala added
Trent and Riva, Parma and Reggio, Belluno and Vicenza, to his dominions;
and Can Grande conquered Padua, Trevigi, Mantua, and Feltre. It is his
body that is laid in the plain sarcophagus over the door of the little
church of St. Mary of the Scaligers, only adorned with the figure of a
knight on horseback, of nearly the natural size, above it. The other
tombs, on which it looks down, are those of his successors: they are
gorgeous in ornament, and form a conspicuous group among the picturesque
buildings of the city; but they are built over the ashes of men under
whom their family and state declined, until the Visconti of Milan,
having overcome the princes, built the citadel, and fortified Castello
San Pietro.

We must not omit to state that under Bartolomeo, the third of the
Scaligers, that tragic end was put to the rivalry of the great families,
Capelletti and Montecchi, which served Bandello as the foundation of one
of his most popular novels, and Shakspeare as the plot of Romeo and
Juliet. The tomb now shown as that of Juliet, is an ancient sarcophagus
of red granite: it has suffered from the fire which, burnt down the
church where it was originally placed.

The Visconti did not long rule in Verona: about the year 1405, the
Veronese placed themselves under the protection of Venice, whose good
and ill fortune they partook of, until the period of the French
Revolution, when, in 1796, the Venetian Republic ceased to exist. In
1798, the German army occupied Verona, and thought itself secure behind
walls which had stood against Catinat, and which had been improved and
strengthened by Prince Eugene; but, in 1801, it fell into the hands of
the French, and became part of the kingdom of Italy. The events of 1814
placed the Veronese under the dominion of Austria; and, in 1822, this
ancient capital of the North of Italy was the scene of a congress,
wherein the divisions of Europe were remodelled, and its proportions
changed in a manner that it is to be hoped will, in the end, conduce to
its prosperity. Never had such a royal meeting taken place since the
days of Theodoric, whose companions were princes from every nation on
earth.

But they looked on the ruins of Verona. The Roman Amphitheatre is,
perhaps, the least injured of all the public buildings. On the walls,
the four bridges, the castles, and even the churches, the havoc of mines
and the disfiguring effects of bullets are every where visible. The
poverty that war leaves behind is to be seen in the neglected state of
the public buildings, the substitution of gilded and silvered wood for
the sacred golden candlesticks of the altar, and the destruction or
disappearance of pictures of great price. Yet enough remains to show
that Verona once partook of the riches, the polish, the luxury of
Venice. There are relics of her schools, and fragments of her beautiful
architecture. From the Gothic times to the present, we may trace,
step by step, the improvements and variations of public and private
buildings. The majestic San Zeno is at the head of the churches: there
is nothing but what is ancient, and nothing new or incongruous offends
the eye. The Cathedral still preserves one of Titian's most precious
works. In the portico are two figures in high relief, of white marble:
on the sword of one is the word Durindarda; is this the effigy of
Charlemagne's Orlando? The ancient church of San Fermo, restored in
1319, offers some of the earliest pictures after the first dawn of the
revival of painting, by Stefano da Zevio. To the church of St. George,
beyond the Adige, one of the great works of Paolo Veronese, which do so
much honour to himself and to his native city, has been restored, after
having been carried to Paris. Indeed, there is not one of the many
churches of Verona which is not interesting on account of its antiquity,
the works of art contained in it, or its story; and the public squares
and lordly palaces, and the towers that once served as watch-towers to
the proud nobles who guarded them, all force the spectator to look back
with wonder and admiration to the times when a sentiment of political
independence could produce such monuments of glory, even in the midst
of war and in a petty state.

       *       *       *       *       *

The preceding extract has occupied so much space, that we can give
little more than an enumeration of the other contents of the _Gem_.
Among the prose, we have been most pleased with Walter Errick, a
touching tale, by the Hon. Mrs. Norton, (author of Sorrows of Rosalie;)
and the Mining Curate, by Mr. Carne; both of which, however, terminate
somewhat too gloomily. Next is the Man and the Lioness, by Lord
Nugent--not a "Lioness" of Exeter 'Change, but a cook and housekeeper
to a country gentleman, by all around called _the Lioness_ a name,
"in the strictest sense, _de guerre_." Knowing the noble author's
_forte_ in gastronomy, we are almost induced to think the cook,
or _Lioness_ a portrait from life. With respect to the name, his
lordship observes "it might have had some reference to those ample and
bushy ringlets, of a colour which by the friends of the wearer, is
generally called bright auburn, and which, on those high days when Mrs.
Grace was wont to stalk forth from her solitude, swelled around a
sanguine countenance, in volume, in texture, and in hue, not unlike the
mane of that awful animal." To our view, Mrs. Grace is a sort of Mrs.
Subtle, but who, with better luck than the housekeeper in the play,
marries the old gentleman, and after an odd adventure at a masquerade,
buries him in the Abbey Church, Bath. It is pleasantly told, and there
are in it many genuine touches of humour. Miss Mitford has next Little
Miss Wren, a beautiful trifle for old and young; and last is the Count
of Trionto, as deep a piece of Italian romance as need accompany one of
Mr. Martin's designs.

The poetical pieces, which are numerous, are of a less lugubrious cast
than usual. Mr. Kenney, the playwright, has a rustic plaint:

  Dear Tom, my brave free-hearted lad,
    Where'er you go, God bless you!
  You'd better speak than wish you had,
    If love for me distress you.
  To me they say, your thoughts incline,
    And possibly they may so;
  Then, once for all, to quiet mine,
    Tom, if you love me, say so.


--All this is mighty pleasant for a plaint, and just such as Mr. Kenney
would write on one of the garden-seats of the Tuileries, or in the
green-room of the little theatre in the Haymarket. The lines on a young
collegian and his "dearest Lily," are equally playful:

  Farewell to the hound and the cover,
    Farewell to the heath and the glen!
  But when _Term_ and the _Little-go's_ over,
    He'll be with you, dear Lily again.


--But these are hardly polished enough for the _Gem_. In another
vein, Dr. Bowring has some fine stanzas "to GOD," from the Dutch. A few
lines by the unfortunate John Keats strongly tell his frenzied hours. A
Legend of the Mirror has too much chivalry to belong to our lists, but
is very pretty. The Lone Old Man, by the Hon. Mrs. Norton, has all the
pathos of her best compositions. Still, the most striking of the poetry
are the Tichborne Dole, a ballad of rare antique beauty, by Lord
Nugent--and a Highland Eclogue, by the Ettrick Shepherd--both which are
too long for extract.

In its Illustrations, the _Gem_ is more than usually fortunate, and
their selection and execution is honourable to the taste and talent of
R. Cooper, Esq. R.A. The Frontispiece, Rose Malcolm, from his pencil,
by C. Rolls, is extremely beautiful. Wilkie's Saturday Night is ably
engraved by J. Mitchell; and Tyre, by S. Lacy, from a picture by T.
Creswick contended for our choice with Verona, which we have adopted.
Three or four of the plates have much fun and humour: the Stolen
Interview, after Stephanoff--an old lady being asleep at noonday in an
easy chair, her daughter profits by the nap to return the attentions
of her devoted admirer at the open door; the girl's expression is
admirable. Another, the Coquette, after Chalon, is engraved in a light,
sprightly style by Humphreys; a beautiful French flirt, at her toilet,
is repelling with her fan--that wand of coquetry--a French Abbe on
bended knee, whilst her other hand is rapturously seized by a second
suitor, just peeping from behind a screen: if such be

  A sample of the _old régime_,
  I hope the new one's better.


Another pretty piece of intrigue--a girl stealing an opened love-letter
from a fair one dozing on a sofa, and a third advancing on tiptoe from
the door of the room, is highly creditable to Mr. Smirke, the painter,
and A.W. Warren, the engraver. Among the more elaborate plates is an
exquisite creation of Howard's pencil, the Infant Bacchus engraved
by J.C. Edwards; and last, though not least in effect, is Trionto,
a mountain wild and chaos of storm, from a drawing by Martin; but
the engraving hardly approaches the design.

There is much novelty in the present _Gem:_ the prints, prose, and
poetry sparkle most characteristically, and are just such as the title
of the work would lead one to expect to find in it; which is a rare
merit among new books.

       *       *       *       *       *


Friendship's Offering.


We believe the editor of the present volume to be Mr. Thomas Pringle,
of whose taste and fitness for the task, we spoke in our "Spirit of the
Annuals" for 1829. It contains five or six striking prose articles, and,
we think, fewer poetical pieces than the former volume. Among the tales
entitled to special mention, as evincing considerable talent and more
than the ordinary interest of mere sketches--are Il Vesuviano, a
Neapolitan Story--the Voyage Out, by Mrs. Bowdich--the Lover's Leap,
a Highland Legend, by Leigh Ritchie--a tale of the White Bristol,
(30 pages) from the powerful pen of Mr. Banim--the Fords of Callum,
by the Ettrick Shepherd--Mourad and Euxabeet, a Persian Tale, by Mr.
Fraser--and Whatever betide--for the right, a tale of Old London--the
titles of which will give the reader some idea of the rich and varied
contents of the prose department. The Outline of a Life, by Mr. Kennedy
has all the "fitful fancy" of his earlier productions, but the piece
selected by us for quotation, is


LUCIFER.

_By J.A. St. John_.[3]

    [3] We have abridged this tale to suit our limits, though we trust
        not at the expense of the interest of the author. The style is
        rich and tender, and well suited to this class of works,
        although we cannot help thinking some of the details
        unnecessarily protracted. In the volume it occupies 22 pages.

In an ancient chronicle of Arezzo, which still remains in manuscript
in the church of St. Angelo, in that city,[4] there is found the very
extraordinary story of the painter Spinello Aretino, to which Lanzi
alludes briefly, in his History of Painting in Italy. No farther notice
has, I believe, been taken of it by any other writer whatever, although
it appears to me to be singularly well calculated to gratify or to
excite the curiosity of those who love to pry into the mysteries of
human nature, and to mark the strange avenues by which mortals sometimes
approach the gates of death.

    [4] Vide Catal Manuscript. Sanct Ang. No. 817. 4to. Rom. 1532.

When Spinello first arrived at Arezzo, he took lodgings in the house
of an artist, who, although he possessed no great share of genius, had
contrived to amass considerable wealth. This artist was no other than
Bernardo Daddi, whose son, also named Bernardo, afterwards became the
pupil of Spinello, and almost eclipsed his father's reputation. Besides
this son, Bernardo had several other children, and among the rest a
daughter named Beatrice, then just verging upon womanhood. With this
daughter it was to be expected that Spinello would immediately be in
love; but our young artist had left behind him, in his native village,
a charming girl, to whom he was in a manner betrothed; and he was the
last man in the world to look upon another with a wandering heart. He,
therefore, lived in the same house, and ate at the same table with
Beatrice, without even discovering that she was beautiful; while they
who merely caught a glance of her at church, or as she moved, like a
vision, along the public walk, pretended to be consumed with passion.

Fathers, whether their children are beautiful or not, are often desirous
of preserving an image of them during their golden age, when time, like
the summer sun, is only ripening the fruit he will afterwards wither,
and cause to drop from the bough. Bernardo was possessed by this desire;
and as he never dreamed that any pencil in Arezzo, but his own, could
reproduce upon canvass the lovely countenance of Beatrice, he spent, as
from his opulence he could now afford to do, a considerable portion
of his time in painting her portrait. The girl, however, who was not
greatly addicted to meditation and could not read, for books had not
then come into fashion, grew melancholy during these long sittings,
and her father perceived it. At first no remedy presented itself. He
endeavoured, indeed, to converse with her a little in his uncouth way;
but he had not cultivated the art of talking, and quickly exhausted his
topics. He next introduced his son Bernardo, the junior of Beatrice by
one year, whose efforts at creating amusement, being constrained and
unnatural, for he came against his will, were little more successful
than his own. At length the idea of engaging the services of his lodger,
with whom he had observed that Beatrice sometimes laughed and chatted
of an evening, occurred to him, and he forthwith mentioned the subject
to Spinello. The young man entertained a very strong affection for
Bernardo, who, if he wanted genius, was far from being destitute of
amiable and endearing qualities; and therefore, notwithstanding that he
felt it would greatly interfere with his studies, and trench upon his
time, he immediately determined to comply with the old man's desires.

The next morning saw Spinello installed in his new office. Beatrice was
seated like a statue in an antique chair with her arms crossed upon her
bosom, her eyes fixed upon vacancy, and her features screwed in spite
of herself, into an expression of weariness and impatience. By degrees,
however, as Spinello conversed with her, now of one trifle, then of
another, her eyes involuntarily wandered to that portion of the room in
which the young dialectician sat involved in shadow, and exerting all
his eloquence and ingenuity to awaken her attention. The experiment
succeeded. Spinello was entreated to be present the next day, the day
following, and, in fact, every day, until the portrait was completed,
or, at least, nearly so. He gazed, as I have said, upon the face of
Beatrice, and would sometimes spend a moment in examining the inanimate
representation of it, and in instituting a comparison between it and
the original; until one day forgetting in his idolatry of loveliness
the respect due to old age, he snatched the pencil from the hand of
Bernardo, and with singular ardour and impatience exclaimed--"Let me
finish it!" Without uttering a word, the old man, awed by the vehemence
of his manner, yielded up the pencil; and Spinello proceeded, as if in
a dream, to embody upon the canvass the idea of beauty which inhabited
his soul.

Spinello, thus entrapped by his own enthusiasm, could do no other than
proceed with the portrait. Though infinitely desirous not to wound the
feelings of Daddi, he perceived at once that it would be necessary
to recast the whole design of the piece to change the style of
colouring--in a word, to paint a new picture. Daddi, who loved his
child still more than his art, and wished to preserve and transmit to
posterity a likeness of her, by whomsoever painted, was not offended,
though he was a little hurt, by this freedom, and without murmur or
objection allowed Spinello to accomplish his undertaking in whatever
manner he pleased. The young man went to work with a satisfaction and
alacrity he had never before experienced; and the image of Beatrice,
passing into his soul, to be thence reflected, as from one mirror upon
another, on the canvass, shed the light of Paradise over his fancy--as
the musk-deer perfumes the thicket in which it slumbers.

Though this picture is greatly celebrated in Italy, and especially
at Arezzo, I shall not pause to describe it minutely. Beatrice is
represented as reclining, in a chaste and thoughtful attitude, on an
antique couch at the foot of a pillar: flowers and flowering shrubs
appear to shed their perfume around; and a spreading tree, with a vine
loaded with grapes climbing up its trunk and branches, stretches over
her. In the back ground the sky only, and a few dusky trees, appear.
The design, it will be perceived is meagre enough, but the execution
is incomparably beautiful; and it may be safely affirmed, that if
immortality upon earth was all that Bernardo coveted for his child,
his prayer has been granted. A thousand pens have been employed in
celebrating this picture, and Italian literature must perish ere
Beatrice be forgotten.

I shall not pretend to say by what means, since it was not by words,
Spinello discovered that he was beloved by Beatrice: but assuredly the
discovery gave him considerable pain. The form of Beatrice would rise up
both in his sleeping and waking dreams before his fancy, among his most
cherished associations; and her features, although he observed it not,
mingled themselves, as it were, with the elements of every picture he
painted.

While this was the state of his mind and feelings, Spinello was engaged
to paint his famous picture of the "Fall of the Angels," for the church
of St. Angelo at Arezzo. The design of this great work, which has been
celebrated by Vasari, Moderni, and other writers on Italian art, was
at once magnificent and original; and the countenance and figure of
Lucifer, upon which the artist appeared to have concentrated all the
rays, as it were, of his genius, were conceived in a manner fearfully
sublime. Spinello disdained the vulgar method of binding together, by
an arbitrary link, all the attributes of ugliness, which artists have
generally pursued when they would represent the greatest of the fallen
angels; and, after meditating long upon the best mode of embodying
the principle of evil, determined to clothe it with a certain form of
beauty, though of a kind not calculated to delight, but on the contrary
to awaken in the soul all those feelings of uneasiness, anxiety,
apprehension and terror, which usually slumber in the abysses of our
nature, and are disturbed only on very extraordinary occasions.

From the moment in which he began to delineate this miraculous figure,
a singular change seemed to have taken place in his whole nature.
His imagination, like a sea put in motion by the wind, appeared to
be in perpetual agitation. He was restless and uneasy when any other
occupation kept him away from his picture. As his health was good, and
his frame vigorous though susceptible, this state of excitement was at
first rather pleasing than otherwise. He indulged himself, therefore,
with those agitating visions, as they may be called, which the
contemplation or recollection of his Lucifer called up before his mind.
At length, however, the idea of the mighty fallen angel, whose form he
had delighted to clothe with terror and sublimity, began to present
itself under a new character to his mind; and instead of being a subject
to be fondled, as it were, and caressed by the imagination, seemed as
it approached maturity to manifest certain mysterious qualities, which,
engendered terror and apprehension rather than delight.

Spinello's _studio_ now began to be a place of torture to him, and
he turned his eyes towards the amusements of the world, which he had
hitherto shunned and scorned. He frequented the society of other young
artists, with whom he often strolled into the woods, or rather groves,
for which this portion of Etruria was always remarkable, sometimes
traversing or descending the Val d'Arno, at others roaming about the
ruins, or visiting the site of Pliny's Tuscan Villa. On returning in
high spirits from one of these excursions, he learned by the letter of a
friend that the object of his first love had proved unfaithful, and been
united in marriage to another. This event, though it had no connexion
whatever with his former cause of uneasiness, threw a new gloom over his
imagination, in the midst of which the figure of Lucifer, dilating, like
an image in the mists of the desert, to superhuman dimensions, stood up
to scare and torment him afresh.

The unhappy young man, wounded in his feelings, and haunted by the
shadow of his own idea, now fled to Beatrice for relief; and her tone
of thinking, which had in it something of the Stoic cast, united with
a manner at once playful and dignified, delighted him exceedingly. They
conversed together on many occasions for whole hours; and the trains of
thought which at such times swept like glorious pageants through his
mind, followed too rapidly to allow of the existence of melancholy.
Sometimes, indeed, Spinello would observe that when he gazed in rapture,
rather than in passion, upon the face of Beatrice, a certain something,
like a ray of light, or a spark of fire fallen upon an altar, would
penetrate his soul, and kindle a sudden and fierce pain; but it usually
passed quickly away, and was forgotten. By degrees, however, its
recurrence became more frequent, and the pain it inflicted more intense;
and consequently there soon mingled a considerable portion of uneasiness
in his intercourse with his fair and beautiful friend.

At length the picture was completed, and placed in the church of St.
Angelo, above the altar; and Spinello felt relieved, as if the weight of
the whole universe had been removed from his spirit. He now chatted with
Bernardo, or with his pupil, and the other young artists of Arezzo; or
enjoyed the passionate and almost solemn converse of Beatrice, who from
a lively, laughing girl, had now been transformed, by some hidden
process of nature, into a lofty-minded, commanding woman.

His constant and almost devotional application to his great picture
had considerably shattered his nerves, and he felt his natural
susceptibility so much increased, that, although it was now summer, the
horrible idea which had so long haunted him soon returned; and a cloud
spread itself over his imagination, which all the hurricanes that vex
the ocean could not have blown away. To dissipate this unaccountable
sadness, he wandered forth alone, or with Beatrice, over the sunny
fields; but he felt, as he wandered, that his heart was a fountain which
sent forth two streams,--the one cool, delicious, healing, as the rivers
of Paradise; the other dark, bitter, and burning, like the waters of
hell; and they gushed forth alternately, accordingly as his thoughts
communicated with the recollection of his own picture, or with the
landscapes around him, painted in celestial colours by the hand of God.
Beatrice, who walked by his side, was herself a mystery. To feel the
pressure of her hand, to hear her breathe, to listen to the music of her
voice, was a bliss unspeakable; and there was a sovereign beauty in her
countenance which seemed to cast forth rays of joy and gladness upon
every thing around her, as the sun lights up with smiles the cool
waves of the morning. Yet Spinello felt that as often as this fragment
of Paradise, as it might justly be termed, was turned towards him,
lightnings appeared to gleam from it which dismayed and withered his
soul. At such moments a piercing cold darted through his frame; and when
it passed away, a tremor and shivering succeeded, which withered all
his energies. In fact, whether in the society of Beatrice or not,
Spinello now found that the terrible form of Lucifer, which his genius
had created, was ever present with him, standing, as it were, like a
mighty shadow, between him and the external world, and eclipsing the
glory of earth and heaven.

