The children got some large stones, and sat down on them to warm their
hands; for Sally said her nose and fingers were so cold, she was sure
Jack Frost must be somewhere around. They could not make Carlo come near
the fire: he was afraid of it, it crackled and sputtered so. He liked
better to lie under the bushes near the dinner-basket.

"What a splendid bonfire!" said Bob.

"Yes," said Sally; "but don't you wish we had some nice apples to roast
in the coals?"

Just as she said this, they heard the whistle of a locomotive away in
the distance. "Look out for the engine!" shouted Bob, jumping up. "Let's
run and see the cars go by."

Away they ran down the road, to the edge of the woods, and climbed up on
the fence. By leaning over, they could look far up the track, and watch
the train come thundering down. First only a black speck was in sight;
then the great lantern in front of the locomotive glittered in the sun;
and soon the train was rushing by.

Bob balanced himself on the top rail, and shouted, "Hurrah!" Sally
screamed, "Good-by, good-by!" at the top of her voice; and Carlo
bristled up his hair, and barked loudly, wondering all the time what
this strange creature could be, which made such a racket, and ran faster
than he could.

The people in the cars heard the noise, and looked out to see where it
came from. They saw a boy without his jacket perched on a fence, waving
his hat; a little girl by his side, laughing so hard that she showed all
her teeth; and a funny little yellow dog yelping with all his might:
that was all. But they thought it a pretty picture, and opened the
car-windows to wave their handkerchiefs.

As the last car rushed by, a lady at one of the windows tossed out two
rosy apples. Down jumped Bob and Sally to pick them up. The apples had
fallen in some thick grass, and were not bruised at all. "Just what we
wanted," said Sally; "but, oh, dear! I'm so tired with shouting, that I
don't believe I can eat my apple." She did eat it, though, every bit of
it, except the seeds.

                                                  HENRY BALDWIN.


HOW WILLY COAXED EDITH.


THE children who had "The Nursery" last year will remember the story
called "Kindness is better than Blows," where the bookseller with an
apple coaxed the horse to draw a heavy load up the hill. Little Willy
Gay looked at that picture very carefully, and soon made practical use
of it, as I will tell you.

Willy is very fond of playing horse, but has no brother to play with
him. His sister Edith, three years old, does not like to play horse: she
prefers to be with her dollies. Sometimes Willy gets cross, and scolds
at her because she will not play horse as much as he wants her to.

A few days ago I saw Willy coming up from the cellar with a large red
apple in his hand; and soon after I heard the two children racing
through the rooms, having a merry time; and Willy called out, "O mamma!
I gave Edie an apple, and she _did_ play horse."

You see, he had thought about that story, and made up his mind to try to
coax little sister, as the man did the horse: he soon found that kind
words and deeds were better than scolding.

I hope he will not forget it very soon.

                                                      L. W. GAY.


WORKS OF ART FOR CHILDREN.


I HAVE a little daughter who never returns from a walk in the woods
without bringing a bunch of gay flowers. I have taught her to make of
them many little works of art, which you may also like to learn, dear
reader.

Here is the first. Certainly there must grow in your neighborhood some
larch or spruce trees. If we look sharp, we shall soon find on them a
handsome half-open cone. In the small openings of this cone we stick
delicate flowers and grasses which we find in the meadows and fields.

