Produced by Jon Ingram, David King, the PG Online Distributed
Proofreading Team, and The Internet Library of Early Journals


NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 6.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1849 [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       * {81}

CONTENTS

A few Words of Explanation. 81
NOTES:--
  Letter from the Earl of Shaftesbury respecting
    Monmouth's Ash. 82
  Drayton's Poems. 83
  On a Passage in Goldsmith. 83
  Ancient Libraries, by Rev. Dr. Todd. 83
  Defence of a Bald Head, by J. Payne Collier. 84
  Royal Household Allowances. 85
  Adversaria:--Printers' Couplets--Charles Martel. 86
  Bodenham and Ling. 86
  Travelling in England. 87
  Minor Notes:--Ancient Alms Dish--Bishop that
    Burneth--Ironworks in Sussex, &c.--Order of
    Minerva, &c. 87
  Queries Answered:--
    Dorne the Bookseller. 88
    Henno Rusticus. 89
    Myles Blomefylde. 90
  Answers to Minor Queries:--Curse of Scotland--Katherine
    Pegg--Rev. T. Leman--Burnet Prize--Humble Pie, &c. 90

MINOR QUERIES:
  Eva, Daughter, &c.--John de Daundelyon--Genealogy
    of European Sovereigns--Duke of Ashgrove, &c. 92

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Catalogues, Sales, &c. 94
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted. 95
  Notices to Correspondents. 95
  Advertisements. 95

       *       *       *       *       *

A FEW WORDS OF EXPLANATION.

It was in no boastful or puffing spirit that, when thanking a
correspondent in our last number for "his endeavour to enlarge our
circulation," and requesting all our friends and correspondents "to
follow PHILO'S example by bringing 'NOTES AND QUERIES' under the notice
of such of their friends as take an interest in literary pursuits," we
added "for it is obvious that they will extend the usefulness of our
paper in proportion as they increase its circulation." We wished merely
to state a plain obvious fact. Such must necessarily be the case, and
our experience proves it to be so; for the number of Queries which have
been solved in our columns, has gone on increasing in proportion to the
gradual increase of our circulation;--a result which fully justifies
that passage of our opening address which stated, "that we did not
anticipate any holding back by those whose Notes were most worth
having."

No sooner is information asked for through our medium, than a host of
friendly pens are busied to supply it. From north, south, east, and
west,--from quarters the most unlooked for, do we receive Notes and
Illustrations of every subject which is mooted in our pages. Many of
these replies, too, though subscribed only with an initial or a
pseudonyme, _we_ know to be furnished by scholars who have won the
foremost rank in their respective branches of study. Such men manifest,
by their willingness to afford information to those who need it, and
their readiness to receive it from those who have it to bestow, the
truthfulness of old Chaucer's portrait of the Scholar:--

  "Ful gladly wolde he lerne, and gladly teche."

Nor do our columns exhibit the total result of our labours. Besides the
information communicated to ourselves, some of our friends who inserted
Queries under their own names, have received answers to them without our
intervention.

In addition to those friends who promised us their assistance, we
receive communications from quarters altogether unexpected. Our present
number furnishes a striking instance of this, in the answer to Mr.
Bruce's inquiry respecting the "Monmouth Ash," kindly communicated by
the Earl of Shaftesbury, its distinguished owner.

We trust that each successive paper shows improvement in our
arrangements, and proves also that our means of procuring answers to the
Queries addressed to us are likewise increasing. In the belief that such
is the case, we feel justified in repeating, even at the risk of being
accused of putting in _two_ words for ourselves under the semblance of
_one_ of our readers, "that it is obvious that our friends will extend
the usefulness of our paper in proportion as they increase its
circulation."

       *       *       *       *       * {82}

MONMOUTH'S ASH.

_Letter from the Earl of Shaftesburg accompanying a short "History of
Monmouth Close," formerly printed by his Lordship for the information of
persons visiting that spot._

The whole of Woodlands now belongs to me. The greater part of it was
bought by my late brother soon after he came of age.

I knew nothing of Monmouth Close till the year 1787, when I was shooting
on Horton Heath; the gamekeeper advised me to try for game in the
inclosures called Shag's Heath, and took me to see Monmouth Close and
the famous ash tree there.

I then anxiously inquired of the inhabitants of the neighbouring houses
respecting the traditions concerning Monmouth Close and the celebrated
ash tree, and what I then learnt I have printed for the information of
any person who may visit that spot.

What I have since learnt convinces me that the Duke was not going to
Christchurch. He was on his way to Bournemouth, where he expected to
find a vessel. Monmouth Close is in the direct line from Woodyates to
Bournemouth.

About sixty years ago there was hardly a house there. It was the leading
place of all the smugglers of this neighborhood.

SHAFTESBURY.

St. Giles's House, Nov. 27. 1849.


HISTORY OF MONMOUTH CLOSE.

"The small inclosure which has been known by the name of MONMOUTH CLOSE
ever since the capture of the Duke of Monmouth there, in July, 1685, is
one of a cluster of small inclosures, five in number, which stood in the
middle of Shag's Heath, and were called 'The Island.' They are in the
parish of Woodlands.

"The tradition of the neighbourhood is this: viz. That after the defeat
of the Duke of Monmouth at Sedgemoor, near Bridgewater, he rode,
accompanied by Lord Grey, to Woodyates, where they quitted their horses;
and the Duke having changed clothes with a peasant, endeavoured to make
his way across the country to Christchurch. Being closely pursued, he
made for the Island, and concealed himself in a ditch which was
overgrown with fern and underwood. When his pursuers came up, an old
woman gave information of his being in the Island, and of her having
seen him filling his pocket with peas. The Island was immediately
surrounded by soldiers, who passed the night there, and threatened to
fire the neighbouring cotts. As they were going away, one of them espied
the skirt of the Duke's coat, and seized him. The soldier no sooner knew
him, than he burst into tears, and reproached himself for the unhappy
discovery. The Duke when taken was quite exhausted with fatigue and
hunger, having had no food since the battle but the peas which he had
gathered in the field. The ash tree is still standing under which the
Duke was apprehended, and is marked with the initials of many of his
friends who afterwards visited the spot.

"The family of the woman who betrayed him were ever after holden in the
greatest detestation, and are said to have fallen into decay, and to
have never thriven afterwards. The house where she lived, which
overlooked the spot, has since fallen down. It was with the greatest
difficulty that any one could be made to inhabit it.

"The Duke was carried before Anthony Etterick, Esq., of Holt, a justice
of the peace, who ordered him to London.

"His gold snuff box was afterwards found in the pea-field, full of gold
pieces, and brought to Mrs. Uvedaile, of Horton. One of the finders had
fifteen pounds for half the contents or value of it.

"Being asked what he would do if set at liberty,--the Duke answered,
that if his horse and arms were restored, he only desired to ride
through the army, and he defied them all to take him again."

       *       *       *       *       *

DRAYTON'S POEMS.

In addition to the notes on Drayton by Dr. Farmer, communicated in your
2nd number, the following occurs in a copy of Drayton's _Poems_, printed
for Smithwicke, in 1610, 12mo.:--

    "See the _Return from Parnassus_ for a good character of
    Drayton.

    "See an _Epigram_ by Drayton, I suppose, prefixed to Morley's
    first _Booke of Balletes_.

    "A Sonnet to _John Davies_, before his _Holy Roode, or Christ's
    Crosse_, 4to. (1610). A Poem in 6 line stanzas.

    "Another to the old edit. of _Wit's Commonwealth_.

    "Commendatory Verses before Chapman's _Hesiod_.

    "Sonnet to Ant. Mundy's 2nd Book of _Primation of Greece_, 1619.

    "His _Heroical Epistles_ were newly enlarged and republished in
    8vo. 1598; which is the most antient edition we have seen or
    read of.--[_Bodl. Cat._]--_Biographia his Art_.

    "Another edition, _as we have heard_, in 1610.--Ibid.

    "See Merc's _Wit's Treasury_, p. 281. A modern edition was
    published by _Oldmixon_.--Cibber's _Lives_, 4. 204.

    "See Warton's _Essay on Pope_, 296.

    "Drayton's last Copy of Verses was prefixed to Sir John
    Beaumont's _Poems_, 1629."

So far Dr. Farmer, whose books are often valuable for the notes on the
fly-leaves. Should any one act upon the suggestion of your
correspondent, and think of a selection from Drayton, it would be
necessary to collate the various editions of his poems, which, as they
are numerous, evince his popularity with his contemporaries.

Malone asserted that the _Baron's Wars_ was not {83} published until
1610. I have before me a copy, probably the first edition, with the
following title: "_The Barrons Wars in the raigne of Edward the Second,
with England's Heroical Epistles_, by Michaell Drayton. At London,
Printed by J.R. for N. Ling, 1603," 12mo.; and the poem had been printed
under the title of _Mortimerindos_, in 4to., 1596.

I have an imperfect copy of an early edition (circa 1600) of "_Poemes
Lyrick and Pastorall. Odes, Eglogs, The Man in the Moon_, by Michaell
Drayton Esquier. At London, printed by R.B. for N.L. and J. Flaskett."

It is now thirty-five years since (eheu! fugaces labuntur anni!) the
writer of this induced his friend Sir Egerton Brydges to print the
_Nymphidia_ at his private press; and it would give him pleasure, should
your Notes be now instrumental to the production of a tasteful selection
from the copious materials furnished by Drayton's prolific muse.
Notwithstanding that selections are not generally approved, in this case
it would be (if judiciously done) acceptable, and, it is to be presumed,
successful.

The _Nymphidia_, full of lively fancy as it is, was probably produced in
his old age, for it was not published, I believe, till 1627, when it
formed part of a small folio volume, containing _The Battaile of
Agincourt_ and _The Miseries of Queene Margarite_. Prefixed to this
volume was the noble but tardy panegyric of his friend Ben Jonson,
entitled _The Vision_, and beginning:

  "It hath been question'd, Michael, if I be
   A friend at all; or, if at all, to thee."

S.W.S.

Mickleham, Nov. 10. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN GOLDSMITH.

Sir,--I observe in the _Athenæum_ of the 17th inst. a quotation from the
_Life of Goldsmith_ by Irving, in which the biographer seems to take
credit for appropriating to Goldsmith the merit of originating the
remark or maxim vulgarly ascribed to Talleyrand, that "the true end of
speech is not so much to express our wants as to conceal them."

This is certainly found in No. 3. of _The Bee_, by Goldsmith, and no
doubt Talleyrand acted upon the principle of dissimulation there
enunciated; but the idea is much older than either of those individuals,
as we learn from a note in p. 113. of vol. lxvii. _Quart. Rev._ quoting
two lines written by Young (nearly one hundred years before), in
allusion to courts:--

  "Where Nature's end of language is declined,
   And men talk only to conceal their mind."

Voltaire has used the same expression so long ago as 1763, in his little
satiric dialogue _La Chapon et la Poularde_, where the former,
complaining of the treachery of men says, "Ils n'emploient les paroles
que pour déguiser leurs pénsees." (see xxix. tom. _Oeuvres Complétes_,
pp. 83, 84. ed. Paris, 1822.)

The germ of the idea is also to be found in Lloyd's _State Worthies_,
where speaking of Roger Ascham, he is characterised as "an honest
man,--none being more able for, yet none more averse to, that
circumlocution and contrivance wherewith some men shadow their main
drift and purpose. Speech was made to open man to man, and not to hide
him; to promote commerce, and not betray it."

Lloyd's book first appeared in 1665, but I use the ed. by Whitworth,
vol. i. p. 503.

F.R.A.

Oak House, Nov. 21. 1849.

    [The further communications proposed to us by F.R.A. will be
    very acceptable.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT LIBRARIES--LIBRARY OF THE AUGUSTINIAN EREMITES OF YORK.

Mr. Editor,--I have been greatly interested by the two numbers of the
"NOTES AND QUERIES" which you have sent me. The work promises to be
eminently useful, and if furnished with a good index at the end of each
yearly volume, will become a book indispensable to all literary men, and
especially to those who, like myself, are in charge of large public
libraries.

To testify my good will to the work, and to follow up Mr. Burtt's
remarks on ancient libraries published in your second number, I venture
to send you the following account of a MS. Catalogue of the Library of
the Monastery of the Friars Eremites of the Order of St. Augustine in
the City of York.

This MS. is now preserved in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin,
amongst the MSS. formerly belonging to the celebrated Archbishop Ussher.
It is on vellum, written in the 14th century, and begins thus:--

    "Inventarium omnium librorum pertinentium ad commune armariole
    domus Ebor. ordinis fratrum heremitarum Sancti Augustini, factum
    in presentia fratrum Johannis de Ergum, Johannis Ketilwell,
    Ricardi de Thorpe, Johannis de Appilby, Anno domini Mº. CCC
    lxxij in festo nativitatis virginis gloriose. Fratre Willelmo de
    Stayntoun tunc existente priore."

The volume consists of forty-five leaves, and contains the titles of a
very large and most respectable collection of books in all departments
of literature and learning arranged under the following heads:--

Biblie.
Hystorie scholastice.
Textus biblie glosati.
Postille.
Concordancie et interpretaciones nominum hebreorum. {84}
Originalia. [Under this head are included the
  works of the Fathers, and medieval writers.]
Historie geneium.
Summe doctorum. Scriptores super sententias.
  quodlibet. et questiones.
Tabulæ. [This division contained Indexes to
  various authors, the Scriptures, canon law,
  &c.]
Logicalia et philosophia cum scriptis et commentis.
Prophecie et supersticiosa.
Astronomia et Astrologia.
Instrumenta astrologica magistri Johannis Erghome
  [who appears to have been a great
  benefactor to the Library].
Libri divini officii magistri Johannis Erghome.
Jura civilia.
Jura canonica et leges humane: magistri Johannis
  Erghome.
Auctores et philosophi extranei. [Under this
  head occurs the following entry, "Liber hebraice
  scriptus."]
Gramatica.
Rethorica. [Two leaves of the MS. appear to
  have been cut out here.]
Medicina.
Hystorie et cronice.
Sermones et materie sermonum.
Summe morales doctorum et sermones.
Arithmetica, Musica, Geometria, Perspectiva,
  magistri Johannis Erghome.

Each volume is identified, according to the usual practice, by the words
with which its second folio begins: and letters of tha alphabet are
added, probably to indicate its place on the shelves of the Library. As
a specimen, I shall give the division headed "Biblie":--

BIBLIE

A. Biblia. incipit in 2º. fo. Samuel in[1] heli.
B. Biblia. incipit in 2º. fo. Zechieli qui populo.
  _in duobus voluminibus_.
C. Biblia. inc't. in 2º. fo. mea et in crane.
D. Biblia. inc't. in 2º. fo. ego disperdam.
  ¶ Libri magistri Johannis Erghome
    Biblia. 2º. _fol ravit quosdam._     }
    Interpretationes.                    }--A
E. _Biblia incomplet. diversarum scripturarum.
    quondam fratris R. Bossal. 2º. fo. me
    occidet me etc._

HYSTORIE SCOLASTICE

A. Incipit in 2º. folio. secunda die.
B. inci't. in 2º. fo. emperio sane formatis. _ligatus_.
C. inci't. in 2º. fo. et celumque celi.

The words printed in _Italics_ are added by a more recent hand. Under
the head of "Hystorie Scolastice" are doubtless intended the copies
which the Library possessed of the celebrated _Historia Scholastica_, or
abridgement of Scripture history by Peter Comestor.

From the foregoing specimen, I think your readers will agree with me
that a Catalogue of such antiquity and interest is well worthy of
publication.

But we have another ancient Catalogue of a monastic library equally
curious, and even more important from its magnitude, and the numerous
works it contains on English history, early romances, &c. I remain, &c.

JAMES H. TODD.

Trin. Coll. Dublin, Nov. 27. 1849.

    [Footnote 1: _Sic_ perhaps a mistake for et.]

       *       *       *       *       *

DEFENCE OF A BALD HEAD--THE STATIONERS' REGISTERS.

I am about to supply a deficiency in my last volume of _Extracts from
the Register of the Stationers' Company_ (printed for the Shakespeare
Society, 1849), and thereby set an example that I hope will be followed,
in order that various works, regarding which I could give no, or only
incomplete, information, may be duly illustrated. It is impossible to
expect that any one individual could thoroughly accomplish such an
undertaking; and, by means of your excellent periodical, it will be easy
for literary men, who possess scarce or unique books, mentioned in the
Registers and in my quotations from them, to furnish such brief
descriptions as will be highly curious and very useful.

A tract of this description has just fallen in my way, and it relates to
the subsequent entry on p. 97. of vol. ii. of my _Extracts_: the date is
22nd September, 1579.

    "H. Denham. Lycensed unto him, &c. A Paradox, provinge by reason
    and example that baldnes is much better than bushie heare. vj'd"

When I wrote the comment on this registration I was only acquainted with
the clever MS. ballad in _Defence of a Bald Head_, which I quoted; but I
hardly supposed it to be the production intended. It turns out that it
was not, for I have that production now before me. My belief is that it
is entirely unique; and the only reason for a contrary opinion, that I
am acquainted with, is that there is an incorrect mention of it in
Warton, _H.E.P._ iv. 229.; but there is not a hint of its existence in
Ritson, although it ought to have found a place in his _Bibliographia
Poetica_; neither do I find it noticed in later authorities; if it be,
they have escaped my researches. You will not blame me, then, for
indulging my usual wish to quote the title-page at length, which exactly
agrees with the terms of the entry in the books of the Stationers'
Company. It runs _literatim_ thus:--

    "A Paradoxe, proving by reason and example, that baldnesse is
    much better than bushie haire, &c. Written by that excellent
    philosopher Synesius, Bishop of Thebes, or (as some say) Cyren.
    A prettie pamphlet to pervse, and relenished with
    recreation.--Englished {85} by Abraham Fleming.--Herevnto is
    annexed the pleasant tale of Hemetes the Heremite, pronounced
    before the Queenes Maiestie. Newly recognised both in Latin and
    Englishe, by the said A.F.--[Greek: hae taes sophias phalakra
    saemeion.]--The badge of wisdome is baldnesse.--Printed by H.
    Denham, 1579." 8vo. B.L.

If I am not greatly mistaken, your readers will look in vain for a
notice of the book in any collected list of the many productions of
Abraham Fleming; if I am not greatly mistaken, also, some of them will
be disapppointed if I do not subjoin a few sentences describing more
particularly the contents of the small volume, which (speaking as a
bibliographer) extends to sign. F. iiij in eights.

At the back of the title-page is "The life of Synesius drawen out of
Suydas his gatherings," in Greek and in English. Then comes "The Epistle
Apologeticall to the lettered Reader," signed "Thine for thy pleasure
and profite--Abraham Fleming," which, in excuse for taking up so slight
a subject, contains a very singular notice of the celebrated John
Heywood, the dramatist of the reign of Henry VIII., and of his
remarkable poem _The Spider and the Fly_. The _Pretie Paradoxe_, by
Synesius, next commences, and extends as far as sign. D. v. b. This
portion of the tract is, of course, merely a translation, but it
includes a passage or two from Homer, cleverly rendered into English
verse. Here we come to the word _Finis_, and here, I take it, it was
originally intended that the tract should end; but as it was thought
that it would hardly be of sufficient bulk for the money (4d., or 6d. at
the utmost), a sort of appendix was added, which, on some accounts, is
the most interesting part of the work.

It is headed "The tale of Hemetes the Heremite, pronounced before the
Queene's Maiestie," which Warton, who clearly never saw the book, calls
the "Fable of Hermes." In fact, it is, with a few verbal changes, the
tale of Hemetes, which George Gascoigne presented, in Latin, Italian,
French, and English, to Queen Elizabeth, and of which the MS., with the
portraits of the Queen and the author is among the Royal MSS. in the
British Museum. Fleming tells us that he had "newly recognised"
(whatever may be meant by the words) this tale in Latin and English, but
he does not say a syllable whence he procured it. Gascoigne died two
years before the date of the publication of this _Paradoxe, &c._ so that
Fleming was quite sure the property could never be challenged by the
true owner of it.

Before I conclude, allow me to mention two other pieces by A. Fleming
(who became rector of St. Pancras, Soper-lane, in 1593), regarding which
I am anxious to obtain information, and seek it through the medium of
"NOTES AND QUERIES."

A marginal note in Fleming's Translation of Virgil's _Georgics_, 1589,
4to., is the following:--"The poet alludeth to the historie of Leander
and Hero, written by Museus, and Englished by me a dozen yeares ago, and
in print." My question is, whether such a production is in existence?

Fleming's tract, printed in 1580 in 8vo. (miscalled 16mo.), "A Memorial,
&c. of Mr. William Lambe, Esquier," is well known; but many years ago I
saw, and copied the heading of a _broadside_, which ran thus:--"An
Epitaph, or funeral inscription vpon the godlie life and death of the
Right worshipfull Maister William Lambe Esquire, Founder of the new
Conduit in Holborne," &c. "Deceased the 21st April Anno 1580. Deuised by
Abraham Fleming." At the bottom was--"Imprinted at London by Henrie
Denham for Thomas Turner," &c.

In whose hands, or in what library, I saw this production, has entirely
escaped my memory; and I am now very anxious to learn what has become of
that copy, or whether any other copy of it has been preserved.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

Kensington, Dec. 3. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

