Once or twice Indians working in the fields were met with. Manoel
questioned them, and one of them at length told him that a man, such as
he described, had just passed in the direction of the angle formed by
the two rivers at their confluence.

Without waiting for more, Benito, by an irresistible movement, strode
to the front, and his two companions had to hurry on to avoid being left
behind.

The left bank of the Amazon was then about a quarter of a mile off. A
sort of cliff appeared ahead, hiding a part of the horizon, and bounding
the view a few hundred paces in advance.

Benito, hurrying on, soon disappeared behind one of the sandy knolls.

"Quicker! quicker!" said Manoel to Fragoso. "We must not leave him alone
for an instant."

And they were dashing along when a shout struck on their ears.

Had Benito caught sight of Torres? What had he seen? Had Benito and
Torres already met?

Manoel and Fragoso, fifty paces further on, after swiftly running round
one of the spurs of the bank, saw two men standing face to face to each
other.

They were Torres and Benito.

In an instant Manoel and Fragoso had hurried up to them. It might have
been supposed that in Benito's state of excitement he would be unable to
restrain himself when he found himself once again in the presence of the
adventurer. It was not so.

As soon as the young man saw himself face to face with Torres, and was
certain that he could not escape, a complete change took place in
his manner, his coolness returned, and he became once more master of
himself.

The two men looked at one another for a few moments without a word.

Torres first broke silence, and, in the impudent tone habitual to him,
remarked:

"Ah! How goes it, Mr. Benito Garral?"

"No, Benito Dacosta!" answered the young man.

"Quite so," continued Torres. "Mr. Benito Dacosta, accompanied by Mr.
Manoel Valdez and my friend Fragoso!"

At the irritating qualification thus accorded him by the adventurer,
Fragoso, who was by no means loath to do him some damage, was about to
rush to the attack, when Benito, quite unmoved, held him back.

"What is the matter with you, my lad?" exclaimed Torres, retreating for
a few steps. "I think I had better put myself on guard."

And as he spoke he drew from beneath his poncho his manchetta, the
weapon, adapted at will for offense or defense, which a Brazilian is
never without. And then, slightly stooping, and planted firmly on his
feet, he waited for what was to follow.

"I have come to look for you, Torres," said Benito, who had not stirred
in the least at this threatening attitude.

"To look for me?" answered the adventurer. "It is not very difficult to
find me. And why have you come to look for me?"

"To know from your own lips what you appear to know of the past life of
my father."

"Really?"

"Yes. I want to know how you recognized him, why you were prowling about
our fazenda in the forest of Iquitos, and why you were waiting for us at
Tabatinga."

"Well! it seems to me nothing could be clearer!" answered Torres, with
a grin. "I was waiting to get a passage on the jangada, and I went on
board with the intention of making him a very simple proposition--which
possibly he was wrong in rejecting."

At these words Manoel could stand it no longer. With pale face and eye
of fire he strode up to Torres.

Benito, wishing to exhaust every means of conciliation, thrust himself
between them.

"Calm yourself, Manoel!" he said. "I am calm--even I."

And then continuing:

"Quite so, Torres; I know the reason of your coming on board the raft.
Possessed of a secret which was doubtless given to you, you wanted to
make it a means of extortion. But that is not what I want to know at
present."

"What is it, then?"

"I want to know how you recognized Joam Dacosta in the fazenda of
Iquitos?"

"How I recognized him?" replied Torres. "That is my business, and I see
no reason why I should tell you. The important fact is, that I was
not mistaken when I denounced in him the real author of the crime of
Tijuco!"

"You say that to me?" exclaimed Benito, who began to lose his
self-possession.

"I will tell you nothing," returned Torres; "Joam Dacosta declined my
propositions! He refused to admit me into his family! Well! now that his
secret is known, now that he is a prisoner, it is I who refuse to enter
his family, the family of a thief, of a murderer, of a condemned felon,
for whom the gallows now waits!"

"Scoundrel!" exclaimed Benito, who drew his manchetta from his belt and
put himself in position.

Manoel and Fragoso, by a similar movement, quickly drew their weapons.

"Three against one!" said Torres.

"No! one against one!" answered Benito.

"Really! I should have thought an assassination would have better suited
an assassin's son!"

"Torres!" exclaimed Benito, "defend yourself, or I will kill you like a
mad dog!"

"Mad! so be it!" answered Torres. "But I bite, Benito Dacosta, and
beware of the wounds!"

And then again grasping his manchetta, he put himself on guard and ready
to attack his enemy.

Benito had stepped back a few paces.

"Torres," he said, regaining all his coolness, which for a moment he had
lost; "you were the guest of my father, you threatened him, you betrayed
him, you denounced him, you accused an innocent man, and with God's help
I am going to kill you!"

Torres replied with the most insolent smile imaginable. Perhaps at the
moment the scoundrel had an idea of stopping any struggle between
Benito and him, and he could have done so. In fact he had seen that Joam
Dacosta had said nothing about the document which formed the material
proof of his innocence.

Had he revealed to Benito that he, Torres, possessed this proof, Benito
would have been that instant disarmed. But his desire to wait till the
very last moment, so as to get the very best price for the document he
possessed, the recollection of the young man's insulting words, and the
hate which he bore to all that belonged to him, made him forget his own
interest.

In addition to being thoroughly accustomed to the manchetta, which he
often had had occasion to use, the adventurer was strong, active, and
artful, so that against an adversary who was scarcely twenty, who could
have neither his strength nor his dexterity, the chances were greatly in
his favor.

Manoel by a last effort wished to insist on fighting him instead of
Benito.

"No, Manoel," was the cool reply, "it is for me alone to avenge my
father, and as everything here ought to be in order, you shall be my
second."

"Benito!"

"As for you, Fragoso, you will not refuse if I ask you to act as second
for that man?"

"So be it," answered Fragoso, "though it is not an office of honor.
Without the least ceremony," he added, "I would have killed him like a
wild beast."

The place where the duel was about to take place was a level bank about
fifty paces long, on the top of a cliff rising perpendicularly some
fifty feet above the Amazon. The river slowly flowed at the foot, and
bathed the clumps of reeds which bristled round its base.

There was, therefore, none too much room, and the combatant who was the
first to give way would quickly be driven over into the abyss.

The signal was given by Manoel, and Torres and Benito stepped forward.

Benito had complete command over himself. The defender of a sacred
cause, his coolness was unruffled, much more so than that of Torres,
whose conscience insensible and hardened as it was, was bound at the
moment to trouble him.

The two met, and the first blow came from Benito. Torres parried it.
They then jumped back, but almost at the same instant they rushed
together, and with their left hands seized each other by the
shoulder--never to leave go again.

Torres, who was the strongest, struck a side blow with his manchetta
which Benito could not quite parry. His left side was touched, and his
poncho was reddened with his blood. But he quickly replied, and slightly
wounded Torres in the hand.

Several blows were then interchanged, but nothing decisive was done. The
ever silent gaze of Benito pierced the eyes of Torres like a sword
blade thrust to his very heart. Visibly the scoundrel began to quail. He
recoiled little by little, pressed back by his implacable foe, who was
more determined on taking the life of his father's denouncer than in
defending his own. To strike was all that Benito longed for; to parry
was all that the other now attempted to do.

Soon Torres saw himself thrust to the very edge of the bank, at a spot
where, slightly scooped away, it overhung the river. He perceived the
danger; he tried to retake the offensive and regain the lost ground. His
agitation increased, his looks grew livid. At length he was obliged to
stoop beneath the arm which threatened him.

"Die, then!" exclaimed Benito.

The blow was struck full on its chest, but the point of the manchetta
was stopped by a hard substance hidden beneath the poncho of the
adventurer.

Benito renewed his attack, and Torres, whose return thrust did not touch
his adversary, felt himself lost. He was again obliged to retreat. Then
he would have shouted--shouted that the life of Joam Dacosta depended on
his own! He had not time!

A second thrust of the manchetta pierced his heart. He fell backward,
and the ground suddenly failing him, he was precipitated down the cliff.
As a last effort his hands convulsively clutched at a clump of reeds,
but they could not stop him, and he disappeared beneath the waters of
the river.

Benito was supported on Manoel's shoulder; Fragoso grasped his hands.
He would not even give his companions time to dress his wound, which was
very slight.

"To the jangada!" he said, "to the jangada!"

Manoel and Fragoso with deep emotion followed him without speaking a
word.

A quarter of an hour afterward the three reached the bank to which
the raft was moored. Benito and Manoel rushed into the room where were
Yaquita and Minha, and told them all that had passed.

"My son!" "My brother!"

The words were uttered at the same moment.

"To the prison!" said Benito.

"Yes! Come! come!" replied Yaquita.

Benito, followed by Manoel, hurried along his mother, and half an hour
later they arrived before the prison.

Owing to the order previously given by Judge Jarriquez they were
immediately admitted, and conducted to the chamber occupied by the
prisoner.

The door opened. Joam Dacosta saw his wife, his son, and Manoel enter
the room.

"Ah! Joam, my Joam!" exclaimed Yaquita.

"Yaquita! my wife! my children!" replied the prisoner, who opened his
arms and pressed them to his heart.

"My Joam, innocent!"

"Innocent and avenged!" said Benito.

"Avenged? What do you mean?"

"Torres is dead, father; killed by my hand!"

"Dead!--Torres!--Dead!" gasped Joam Dacosta. "My son! You have ruined
me!"


CHAPTER VII. RESOLUTIONS

A FEW HOURS later the whole family had returned to the raft, and were
assembled in the large room. All were there, except the prisoner, on
whom the last blow had just fallen. Benito was quite overwhelmed, and
accused himself of having destroyed his father, and had it not been
for the entreaties of Yaquita, of his sister, of Padre Passanha, and of
Manoel, the distracted youth would in the first moments of despair have
probably made away with himself. But he was never allowed to get out
of sight; he was never left alone. And besides, how could he have acted
otherwise? Ah! why had not Joam Dacosta told him all before he left the
jangada? Why had he refrained from speaking, except before a judge, of
this material proof of his innocence? Why, in his interview with Manoel
after the expulsion of Torres, had he been silent about the document
which the adventurer pretended to hold in his hands? But, after all,
what faith ought he to place in what Torres had said? Could he be
certain that such a document was in the rascal's possession?

Whatever might be the reason, the family now knew everything, and
that from the lips of Joam Dacosta himself. They knew that Torres
had declared that the proof of the innocence of the convict of Tijuco
actually existed; that the document had been written by the very hand
of the author of the attack; that the criminal, seized by remorse at the
moment of his death, had intrusted it to his companion, Torres; and
that he, instead of fulfilling the wishes of the dying man, had made the
handing over of the document an excuse for extortion. But they knew also
that Torres had just been killed, and that his body was engulfed in the
waters of the Amazon, and that he died without even mentioning the name
of the guilty man.

Unless he was saved by a miracle, Joam Dacosta might now be considered
as irrevocably lost. The death of Judge Ribeiro on the one hand,
the death of Torres on the other, were blows from which he could
not recover! It should here be said that public opinion at Manaos,
unreasoning as it always is, was all against he prisoner. The unexpected
arrest of Joam Dacosta had revived the memory of the terrible crime of
Tijuco, which had lain forgotten for twenty-three years. The trial
of the young clerk at the mines of the diamond arrayal, his capital
sentence, his escape a few hours before his intended execution--all
were remembered, analyzed, and commented on. An article which had just
appeared in the _O Diario d'o Grand Para,_ the most widely circulated
journal in these parts, after giving a history of the circumstances of
the crime, showed itself decidedly hostile to the prisoner. Why should
these people believe in Joam Dacosta's innocence, when they were
ignorant of all that his friends knew--of what they alone knew?

And so the people of Manaos became excited. A mob of Indians and negroes
hurried, in their blind folly, to surround the prison and roar forth
tumultuous shouts of death. In this part of the two Americas, where
executions under Lynch law are of frequent occurrence, the mob soon
surrenders itself to its cruel instincts, and it was feared that on this
occasion it would do justice with its own hands.

What a night it was for the passengers from the fazenda! Masters and
servants had been affected by the blow! Were not the servants of the
fazenda members of one family? Every one of them would watch over the
safety of Yaquita and her people! On the bank of the Rio Negro there
was a constant coming and going of the natives, evidently excited by
the arrest of Joam Dacosta, and who could say to what excesses these
half-barbarous men might be led?

The time, however, passed without any demonstration against the jangada.

On the morrow, the 26th of August, as soon as the sun rose, Manoel and
Fragoso, who had never left Benito for an instant during this terrible
night, attempted to distract his attention from his despair. After
taking him aside they made him understand that there was no time to be
lost--that they must make up their minds to act.

"Benito," said Manoel, "pull yourself together! Be a man again! Be a son
again!"

"My father!" exclaimed Benito. "I have killed him!"

"No!" replied Manoel. "With heaven's help it is possible that all may
not be lost!"

"Listen to us, Mr. Benito," said Fragoso.

The young man, passing his hand over his eyes, made a violent effort to
collect himself.

"Benito," continued Manoel, "Torres never gave a hint to put us on the
track of his past life. We therefore cannot tell who was the author of
the crime of Tijuco, or under what conditions it was committed. To try
in that direction is to lose our time."

"And time presses!" added Fragoso.

"Besides," said Manoel, "suppose we do find out who this companion
of Torres was, he is dead, and he could not testify in any way to the
innocence of Joam Dacosta. But it is none the less certain that the
proof of this innocence exists, and there is not room to doubt the
existence of a document which Torres was anxious to make the subject
of a bargain. He told us so himself. The document is a complete avowal
written in the handwriting of the culprit, which relates the attack in
its smallest details, and which clears our father! Yes! a hundred times,
yes! The document exists!"

"But Torres does not exist!" groaned Benito, "and the document has
perished with him!"

"Wait, and don't despair yet!" answered Manoel. "You remember under what
circumstances we made the acquaintance of Torres? It was in the depths
of the forest of Iquitos. He was in pursuit of a monkey which had stolen
a metal case, which it so strangely kept, and the chase had lasted a
couple of hours when the monkey fell to our guns. Now, do you think that
it was for the few pieces of gold contained in the case that Torres was
in such a fury to recover it? and do you not remember the extraordinary
satisfaction which he displayed when we gave him back the case which we
had taken out of the monkey's paw?"

"Yes! yes!" answered Benito. "This case which I held--which I gave back
to him! Perhaps it contained----"

"It is more than probable! It is certain!" replied Manoel.

"And I beg to add," said Fragoso, "for now the fact recurs to my memory,
that during the time you were at Ega I remained on board, at
Lina's advice, to keep an eye on Torres, and I saw him--yes, I saw
him--reading, and again reading, an old faded paper, and muttering words
which I could not understand."

"That was the document!" exclaimed Benito, who snatched at the hope--the
only one that was left. "But this document; had he not put it in some
place of security?"

"No," answered Manoel--"no; it was too precious for Torres to dream of
parting with it. He was bound to carry it always about with him, and
doubtless in that very case."

"Wait! wait, Manoel!" exclaimed Benito; "I remember--yes, I remember.
During the struggle, at the first blow I struck Torres in his chest, my
manchetta was stopped by some hard substance under his poncho, like a
plate of metal----"

"That was the case!" said Fragoso.

"Yes," replied Manoel; "doubt is impossible! That was the case; it was
in his breast-pocket."

"But the corpse of Torres?"

"We will recover it!"

"But the paper! The water will have stained it, perhaps destroyed it, or
rendered it undecipherable!"

"Why," answered Manoel, "if the metal case which held it was
water-tight?"

"Manoel," replied Benito, who seized on the last hope, "you are right!
The corpse of Torres must be recovered! We will ransack the whole of
this part of the river, if necessary, but we will recover it!"

The pilot Araujo was then summoned and informed of what they were going
to do.

"Good!" replied he; "I know all the eddies and currents where the Rio
Negro and the Amazon join, and we shall succeed in recovering the body.
Let us take two pirogues, two ubas, a dozen of our Indians, and make a
start."

Padre Passanha was then coming out of Yaquita's room.

Benito went to him, and in a few words told him what they were going to
do to get possession of the document. "Say nothing to my mother or my
sister," he added; "if this last hope fails it will kill them!"

"Go, my lad, go," replied Passanha, "and may God help you in your
search."

Five minutes afterward the four boats started from the raft. After
descending the Rio Negro they arrived near the bank of the Amazon, at
the very place where Torres, mortally wounded, had disappeared beneath
the waters of the stream.


CHAPTER VIII. THE FIRST SEARCH

THE SEARCH had to commence at once, and that for two weighty reasons.

The first of these was--and this was a question of life or death--that
this proof of Joam Dacosta's innocence must be produced before the
arrival of the order from Rio Janeiro. Once the identity of the prisoner
was established, it was impossible that such an order could be other
than the order for his execution.

The second was that the body of Torres should be got out of the water
as quickly as possible so as to regain undamaged the metal case and the
paper it ought to contain.

At this juncture Araujo displayed not only zeal and intelligence, but
also a perfect knowledge of the state of the river at its confluence
with the Rio Negro.

"If Torres," he said to the young men, "had been from the first carried
away by the current, we should have to drag the river throughout a
large area, for we shall have a good many days to wait for his body to
reappear on the surface through the effects of decomposition."

"We cannot do that," replied Manoel. "This very day we ought to
succeed."

"If, on the contrary," continued the pilot, "the corpse has got stuck
among the reeds and vegetation at the foot of the bank, we shall not be
an hour before we find it."

"To work, then!" answered Benito.

There was but one way of working. The boats approached the bank, and
the Indians, furnished with long poles, began to sound every part of the
river at the base of the bluff which had served for the scene of combat.

The place had been easily recognized. A track of blood stained the
declivity in its chalky part, and ran perpendicularly down it into the
water; and there many a clot scattered on the reeds indicated the very
spot where the corpse had disappeared.

About fifty feet down stream a point jutted out from the riverside and
kept back the waters in a kind of eddy, as in a large basin. There was
no current whatever near the shore, and the reeds shot up out of the
river unbent. Every hope then existed that Torres' body had not been
carried away by the main stream. Where the bed of the river showed
sufficient slope, it was perhaps possible for the corpse to have rolled
several feet along the ridge, and even there no effect of the current
could be traced.

The ubas and the pirogues, dividing the work among them, limited the
field of their researches to the extreme edge of the eddy, and from
the circumference to the center the crews' long poles left not a single
point unexplored. But no amount of sounding discovered the body of the
adventurer, neither among the clumps of reeds nor on the bottom of the
river, whose slope was then carefully examined.

Two hours after the work had begun they had been led to think that
the body, having probably struck against the declivity, had fallen off
obliquely and rolled beyond the limits of this eddy, where the action of
the current commenced to be felt.

"But that is no reason why we should despair," said Manoel, "still less
why we should give up our search."

"Will it be necessary," exclaimed Benito, "to search the river
throughout its breadth and its length?"

"Throughout its breadth, perhaps," answered Araujo, "throughout its
length, no--fortunately."

"And why?" asked Manoel.

"Because the Amazon, about a mile away from its junction with the Rio
Negro, makes a sudden bend, and at the same time its bed rises, so that
there is a kind of natural barrier, well known to sailors as the Bar of
Frias, which things floating near the surface are alone able to clear.
In short, the currents are ponded back, and they cannot possibly have
any effect over this depression."

This was fortunate, it must be admitted. But was Araujo mistaken? The
old pilot of the Amazon could be relied on. For the thirty years that he
had followed his profession the crossing of the Bar of Frias, where the
current was increased in force by its decrease in depth, had often given
him trouble. The narrowness of the channel and the elevation of the bed
made the passage exceedingly difficult, and many a raft had there come
to grief.

And so Araujo was right in declaring that if the corpse of Torres was
still retained by its weight on the sandy bed of the river, it could
not have been dragged over the bar. It is true that later on, when,
on account of the expansion of the gases, it would again rise to
the surface, the current would bear it away, and it would then be
irrevocably lost down the stream, a long way beyond the obstruction. But
this purely physical effect would not take place for several days.

They could not have applied to a man who was more skillful or more
conversant with the locality than Araujo, and when he affirmed that the
body could not have been borne out of the narrow channel for more than a
mile or so, they were sure to recover it if they thoroughly sounded that
portion of the river.

Not an island, not an islet, checked the course of the Amazon in these
parts. Hence, when the foot of the two banks had been visited up to the
bar, it was in the bed itself, about five hundred feet in width, that
more careful investigations had to be commenced.

The way the work was conducted was this. The boats taking the right and
left of the Amazon lay alongside the banks. The reeds and vegetation
were tried with the poles. Of the smallest ledges in the banks in
which a body could rest, not one escaped the scrutiny of Araujo and his
Indians.

But all this labor produced no result, and half the day had elapsed
without the body being brought to the surface of the stream.

An hour's rest was given to the Indians. During this time they partook
of some refreshment, and then they returned to their task.

Four of the boats, in charge of the pilot, Benito, Fragoso, and Manoel,
divided the river between the Rio Negro and the Bar of Frias into four
portions. They set to work to explore its very bed. In certain places
the poles proved insufficient to thoroughly search among the deeps, and
hence a few dredges--or rather harrows, made of stones and old iron,
bound round with a solid bar--were taken on board, and when the boats
had pushed off these rakes were thrown in and the river bottom stirred
up in every direction.

It was in this difficult task that Benito and his companions were
employed till the evening. The ubas and pirogues, worked by the oars,
traversed the whole surface of the river up to the bar of Frias.

There had been moments of excitement during this spell of work, when
the harrows, catching in something at the bottom, offered some slight
resistance. They were then hauled up, but in place of the body so
eagerly searched for, there would appear only heavy stones or tufts of
herbage which they had dragged from their sandy bed. No one, however,
had an idea of giving up the enterprise. They none of them thought of
themselves in this work of salvation. Benito, Manoel, Araujo had not
even to stir up the Indians or to encourage them. The gallant fellows
knew that they were working for the fazender of Iquitos--for the man
whom they loved, for the chief of the excellent family who treated their
servants so well.

Yes; and so they would have passed the night in dragging the river. Of
every minute lost all knew the value.

A little before the sun disappeared, Araujo, finding it useless to
continue his operations in the gloom, gave the signal for the boats to
join company and return together to the confluence of the Rio Negro and
regain the jangada.

The work so carefully and intelligently conducted was not, however, at
an end.

Manoel and Fragoso, as they came back, dared not mention their ill
success before Benito. They feared that the disappointment would only
force him to some act of despair.

But neither courage nor coolness deserted the young fellow; he was
determined to follow to the end this supreme effort to save the honor
and the life of his father, and he it was who addressed his companions,
and said: "To-morrow we will try again, and under better conditions if
possible."

"Yes," answered Manoel; "you are right, Benito. We can do better. We
cannot pretend to have entirely explored the river along the whole of
the banks and over the whole of its bed."

"No; we cannot have done that," replied Araujo; "and I maintain what I
said--that the body of Torres is there, and that it is there because it
has not been carried away, because it could not be drawn over the Bar of
Frias, and because it will take many days before it rises to the surface
and floats down the stream. Yes, it is there, and not a demijohn of
tafia will pass my lips until I find it!"

This affirmation from the pilot was worth a good deal, and was of a
hope-inspiring nature.

However, Benito, who did not care so much for words as he did for
things, thought proper to reply, "Yes, Araujo; the body of Torres is in
the river, and we shall find it if----"

"If?" said the pilot.

"If it has not become the prey of the alligators!"

Manoel and Fragoso waited anxiously for Araujo's reply.

The pilot was silent for a few moments; they felt that he was reflecting
before he spoke. "Mr. Benito," he said at length, "I am not in the habit
of speaking lightly. I had the same idea as you; but listen. During
the ten hours we have been at work have you seen a single cayman in the
river?"

"Not one," said Fragoso.

"If you have not seen one," continued the pilot, "it was because there
were none to see, for these animals have nothing to keep them in the
white waters when, a quarter of a mile off, there are large stretches
of the black waters, which they so greatly prefer. When the raft was
attacked by some of these creatures it was in a part where there was
no place for them to flee to. Here it is quite different. Go to the Rio
Negro, and there you will see caymans by the score. Had Torres' body
fallen into that tributary there might be no chance of recovering it.
But it was in the Amazon that it was lost, and in the Amazon it will be
found."

Benito, relieved from his fears, took the pilot's hand and shook it, and
contented himself with the reply, "To-morrow, my friends!"

Ten minutes later they were all on board the jangada. During the day
Yaquit had passed some hours with her husband. But before she started,
and when she saw neither the pilot, nor Manoel, nor Benito, nor the
boats, she had guessed the search on which they had gone, but she said
nothing to Joam Dacosta, as she hoped that in the morning she would be
able to inform him of their success.

But when Benito set foot on the raft she perceived that their search had
been fruitless. However, she advanced toward him. "Nothing?" she asked.

"Nothing," replied Benito. "But the morrow is left to us."

The members of the family retired to their rooms, and nothing more was
said as to what had passed.

Manoel tried to make Benito lie down, so as to take a few hours' rest.

"What is the good of that?" asked Benito. "Do you think I could sleep?"


CHAPTER IX. THE SECOND ATTEMPT

ON THE MORROW, the 27th of August, Benito took Manoel apart, before the
sun had risen, and said to him: "Our yesterday's search was vain. If we
begin again under the same conditions we may be just as unlucky."

"We must do so, however," replied Manoel.

"Yes," continued Benito; "but suppose we do not find the body, can you
tell me how long it will be before it rises to the surface?"

"If Torres," answered Manoel, "had fallen into the water living, and
not mortally wounded, it would take five or six days; but as he only
disappeared after being so wounded, perhaps two or three days would be
enough to bring him up again."

This answer of Manoel, which was quite correct, requires some
explanation. Every human body which falls into the water will float if
equilibrium is established between its density and that of its liquid
bed. This is well known to be the fact, even when a person does not know
how to swim. Under such circumstances, if you are entirely submerged,
and only keep your mouth and nose away from the water, you are sure to
float. But this is not generally done. The first movement of a drowning
man is to try and hold as much as he can of himself above the water; he
holds up his head and lifts up his arms, and these parts of his body,
being no longer supported by the liquid, do not lose that amount of
weight which they would do if completely immersed. Hence an excess of
weight, and eventually entire submersion, for the water makes its way
to the lungs through the mouth, takes the place of the air which fills
them, and the body sinks to the bottom.

On the other hand, when the man who falls into the water is already dead
the conditions are different, and more favorable for his floating, for
then the movements of which we have spoken are checked, and the liquid
does not make its way to the lungs so copiously, as there is no attempt
to respire, and he is consequently more likely to promptly reappear.
Manoel then was right in drawing the distinction between the man who
falls into the water living and the man who falls into it dead. In the
one case the return to the surface takes much longer than in the other.

The reappearance of the body after an immersion more or less prolonged
is always determined by the decomposition, which causes the gases to
form. These bring about the expansion of the cellular tissues, the
volume augments and the weight decreases, and then, weighing less than
the water it displaces, the body attains the proper conditions for
floating.

"And thus," continued Manoel, "supposing the conditions continue
favorable, and Torres did not live after he fell into the water, if the
decomposition is not modified by circumstances which we cannot foresee,
he will not reappear before three days."

"We have not got three days," answered Benito. "We cannot wait, you
know; we must try again, and in some new way."

"What can you do?" answered Manoel.

"Plunge down myself beneath the waters," replied Benito, "and search
with my eyes--with my hands."

"Plunge in a hundred times--a thousand times!" exclaimed Manoel. "So be
it. I think, like you, that we ought to go straight at what we want, and
not struggle on with poles and drags like a blind man who only works by
touch. I also think that we cannot wait three days. But to jump in,
come up again, and go down again will give only a short period for
the exploration. No; it will never do, and we shall only risk a second
failure."

"Have you no other plan to propose, Manoel?" asked Benito, looking
earnestly at his friend.

"Well, listen. There is what would seem to be a Providential
circumstance that may be of use to us."

"What is that?"

"Yesterday, as we hurried through Manaos, I noticed that they were
repairing one of the quays on the bank of the Rio Negro. The submarine
works were being carried on with the aid of a diving-dress. Let us
borrow, or hire, or buy, at any price, this apparatus, and then we may
resume our researches under more favorable conditions."

"Tell Araujo, Fragoso, and our men, and let us be off," was the instant
reply of Benito.

The pilot and the barber were informed of the decision with regard to
Manoel's project. Both were ordered to go with the four boats and the
Indians to the basin of Frias, and there to wait for the two young men.

Manoel and Benito started off without losing a moment, and reached the
quay at Manaos. There they offered the contractor such a price that he
put the apparatus at their service for the whole day.

"Will you not have one of my men," he asked, "to help you?"

"Give us your foreman and one of his mates to work the air-pump,"
replied Manoel.

"But who is going to wear the diving-dress?"

"I am," answered Benito.

"You!" exclaimed Manoel.

"I intend to do so."

It was useless to resist.

An hour afterward the raft and all the instruments necessary for the
enterprise had drifted down to the bank where the boats were waiting.

The diving-dress is well known. By its means men can descend beneath the
waters and remain there a certain time without the action of the lungs
being in any way injured. The diver is clothed in a waterproof suit of
India rubber, and his feet are attached to leaden shoes, which allow him
to retain his upright position beneath the surface. At the collar of
the dress, and about the height of the neck, there is fitted a collar
of copper, on which is screwed a metal globe with a glass front. In this
globe the diver places his head, which he can move about at his ease.
To the globe are attached two pipes; one used for carrying off the air
ejected from the lungs, and which is unfit for respiration, and the
other in communication with a pump worked on the raft, and bringing
in the fresh air. When the diver is at work the raft remains immovable
above him; when the diver moves about on the bottom of the river the
raft follows his movements, or he follows those of the raft, according
to his convenience.

These diving-dresses are now much improved, and are less dangerous than
formerly. The man beneath the liquid mass can easily bear the additional
pressure, and if anything was to be feared below the waters it was
rather some cayman who might there be met with. But, as had been
observed by Araujo, not one of these amphibians had been seen, and they
are well known to prefer the black waters of the tributaries of
the Amazon. Besides, in case of danger, the diver has always his
check-string fastened to the raft, and at the least warning can be
quickly hauled to the surface.

Benito, invariably very cool once his resolution was taken, commenced
to put his idea into execution, and got into the diving dress. His head
disappeared in the metal globe, his hand grasped a sort of iron spear
with which to stir up the vegetation and detritus accumulated in the
river bed, and on his giving the signal he was lowered into the stream.

The men on the raft immediately commenced to work the air-pump, while
four Indians from the jangada, under the orders of Araujo, gently
propelled it with their long poles in the desired direction.

The two pirogues, commanded one by Fragoso, the other by Manoel,
escorted the raft, and held themselves ready to start in any direction,
should Benito find the corpse of Torres and again bring it to the
surface of the Amazon.


CHAPTER X. A CANNON SHOT

BENITO THEN HAD disappeared beneath the vast sheet which still covered
the corpse of the adventurer. Ah! If he had had the power to divert the
waters of the river, to turn them into vapor, or to drain them off--if
he could have made the Frias basin dry down stream, from the bar up to
the influx of the Rio Negro, the case hidden in Torres' clothes would
already have been in his hand! His father's innocence would have been
recognized! Joam Dacosta, restored to liberty, would have again started
on the descent of the river, and what terrible trials would have been
avoided!

Benito had reached the bottom. His heavy shoes made the gravel on the
bed crunch beneath him. He was in some ten or fifteen feet of water, at
the base of the cliff, which was here very steep, and at the very spot
where Torres had disappeared.

Near him was a tangled mass of reeds and twigs and aquatic plants, all
laced together, which assuredly during the researches of the previous
day no pole could have penetrated. It was consequently possible that the
body was entangled among the submarine shrubs, and still in the place
where it had originally fallen.

Hereabouts, thanks to the eddy produced by the prolongation of one of
the spurs running out into the stream, the current was absolutely _nil_.
Benito guided his movements by those of the raft, which the long poles
of the Indians kept just over his head.

The light penetrated deep through the clear waters, and the magnificent
sun, shining in a cloudless sky, shot its rays down into them unchecked.
Under ordinary conditions, at a depth of some twenty feet in water,
the view becomes exceedingly blurred, but here the waters seemed to be
impregnated with a luminous fluid, and Benito was able to descend still
lower without the darkness concealing the river bed.

The young man slowly made his way along the bank. With his iron-shod
spear he probed the plants and rubbish accumulated along its foot.
Flocks of fish, if we can use such an expression, escaped on all sides
from the dense thickets like flocks of birds. It seemed as though the
thousand pieces of a broken mirror glimmered through the waters. At the
same time scores of crustaceans scampered over the sand, like huge ants
hurrying from their hills.

Notwithstanding that Benito did not leave a single point of the river
unexplored, he never caught sight of the object of his search. He
noticed, however, that the slope of the river bed was very abrupt, and
he concluded that Torres had rolled beyond the eddy toward the center
of the stream. If so, he would probably still recover the body, for the
current could hardly touch it at the depth, which was already great,
and seemed sensibly to increase. Benito then resolved to pursue his
investigations on the side where he had begun to probe the vegetation.
This was why he continued to advance in that direction, and the raft
had to follow him during a quarter of an hour, as had been previously
arranged.

The quarter of an hour had elapsed, and Benito had found nothing. He
felt the need of ascending to the surface, so as to once more experience
those physiological conditions in which he could recoup his strength. In
certain spots, where the depth of the river necessitated it, he had had
to descend about thirty feet. He had thus to support a pressure almost
equal to an atmosphere, with the result of the physical fatigue and
mental agitation which attack those who are not used to this kind of
work. Benito then pulled the communication cord, and the men on the raft
commenced to haul him in, but they worked slowly, taking a minute to
draw him up two or three feet so as not to produce in his internal
organs the dreadful effects of decompression.

As soon as the young man had set foot on the raft the metallic sphere of
the diving-dress was raised, and he took a long breath and sat down to
rest.

The pirogues immediately rowed alongside. Manoel, Fragoso, and Araujo
came close to him, waiting for him to speak.

"Well?" asked Manoel.

"Still nothing! Nothing!"

"Have you not seen a trace?"

"Not one!"

"Shall I go down now?"

"No, Manoel," answered Benito; "I have begun; I know where to go. Let me
do it!"

Benito then explained to the pilot that his intention was to visit the
lower part of the bank up to the Bar of Frias, for there the slope had
perhaps stopped the corpse, if, floating between the two streams, it had
in the least degree been affected by the current. But first he wanted to
skirt the bank and carefully explore a sort of hole formed in the slope
of the bed, to the bottom of which the poles had evidently not been
able to penetrate. Araujo approved of this plan, and made the necessary
preparations.

Manoel gave Benito a little advice. "As you want to pursue your search
on that side," he said, "the raft will have to go over there obliquely;
but mind what you are doing, Benito. That is much deeper than where
you have been yet; it may be fifty or sixty feet, and you will have to
support a pressure of quite two atmospheres. Only venture with extreme
caution, or you may lose your presence of mind, or no longer know where
you are or what to do. If your head feels as if in a vice, and your ears
tingle, do not hesitate to give us the signal, and we will at once
haul you up. You can then begin again if you like, as you will have got
accustomed to move about in the deeper parts of the river."

Benito promised to attend to these hints, of which he recognized the
importance. He was particularly struck with the fact that his presence
of mind might abandon him at the very moment he wanted it most.

Benito shook hands with Manoel; the sphere of the diving-dress was again
screwed to his neck, the pump began to work, and the diver once more
disappeared beneath the stream.

The raft was then taken about forty feet along the left bank, but as it
moved toward the center of the river the current increased in strength,
the ubas were moored, and the rowers kept it from drifting, so as only
to allow it to advance with extreme slowness.

Benito descended very gently, and again found himself on the firm sand.
When his heels touched the ground it could be seen, by the length of the
haulage cord, that he was at a depth of some sixty-five or seventy
feet. He was therefore in a considerable hole, excavated far below the
ordinary level.

The liquid medium was more obscure, but the limpidity of these
transparent waters still allowed the light to penetrate sufficiently for
Benito to distinguish the objects scattered on the bed of the river,
and to approach them with some safety. Besides, the sand, sprinkled with
mica flakes, seemed to form a sort of reflector, and the very grains
could be counted glittering like luminous dust.

Benito moved on, examining and sounding the smallest cavities with his
spear. He continued to advance very slowly; the communication cord was
paid out, and as the pipes which served for the inlet and outlet of
the air were never tightened, the pump was worked under the proper
conditions.

Benito turned off so as to reach the middle of the bed of the Amazon,
where there was the greatest depression. Sometimes profound obscurity
thickened around him, and then he could see nothing, so feeble was the
light; but this was a purely passing phenomenon, and due to the raft,
which, floating above his head, intercepted the solar rays and made the
night replace the day. An instant afterward the huge shadow would be
dissipated, and the reflection of the sands appear again in full force.

All the time Benito was going deeper. He felt the increase of the
pressure with which his body was wrapped by the liquid mass. His
respiration became less easy; the retractibility of his organs no
longer worked with as much ease as in the midst of an atmosphere more
conveniently adapted for them. And so he found himself under the action
of physiological effects to which he was unaccustomed. The rumbling grew
louder in his ears, but as his thought was always lucid, as he felt
that the action of his brain was quite clear--even a little more so than
usual--he delayed giving the signal for return, and continued to go down
deeper still.

Suddenly, in the subdued light which surrounded him, his attention was
attracted by a confused mass. It seemed to take the form of a corpse,
entangled beneath a clump of aquatic plants. Intense excitement seized
him. He stepped toward the mass; with his spear he felt it. It was the
carcass of a huge cayman, already reduced to a skeleton, and which the
current of the Rio Negro had swept into the bed of the Amazon. Benito
recoiled, and, in spite of the assertions of the pilot, the thought
recurred to him that some living cayman might even then be met with in
the deeps near the Bar of Frias!

But he repelled the idea, and continued his progress, so as to reach the
bottom of the depression.

And now he had arrived at a depth of from eighty to a hundred feet, and
consequently was experiencing a pressure of three atmospheres. If,
then, this cavity was also drawn blank, he would have to suspend his
researches.

Experience has shown that the extreme limit for such submarine
explorations lies between a hundred and twenty and a hundred and thirty
feet, and that below this there is great danger, the human organism not
only being hindered from performing his functions under such a pressure,
but the apparatus failing to keep up a sufficient supply of air with the
desirable regularity.

But Benito was resolved to go as far as his mental powers and physical
energies would let him. By some strange presentiment he was drawn toward
this abyss; it seemed to him as though the corpse was very likely to
have rolled to the bottom of the hole, and that Torres, if he had any
heavy things about him, such as a belt containing either money or arms,
would have sunk to the very lowest point. Of a sudden, in a deep hollow,
he saw a body through the gloom! Yes! A corpse, still clothed, stretched
out like a man asleep, with his arms folded under his head!

Was that Torres? In the obscurity, then very dense, he found it
difficult to see; but it was a human body that lay there, less than ten
paces off, and perfectly motionless!

A sharp pang shot through Benito. His heart, for an instant, ceased to
beat. He thought he was going to lose consciousness. By a supreme effort
he recovered himself. He stepped toward the corpse.

Suddenly a shock as violent as unexpected made his whole frame vibrate!
A long whip seemed to twine round his body, and in spite of the thick
diving-dress he felt himself lashed again and again.

"A gymnotus!" he said.

It was the only word that passed his lips.

In fact, it was a _"puraque,"_ the name given by the Brazilians to the
gymnotus, or electric snake, which had just attacked him.

It is well known that the gymnotus is a kind of eel, with a blackish,
slimy skin, furnished along the back and tail with an apparatus
composed of plates joined by vertical lamellæ, and acted on by nerves of
considerable power. This apparatus is endowed with singular electrical
properties, and is apt to produce very formidable results. Some of these
gymnotuses are about the length of a common snake, others are about ten
feet long, while others, which, however, are rare, even reach fifteen or
twenty feet, and are from eight to ten inches in diameter.

Gymnotuses are plentiful enough both in the Amazon and its tributaries;
and it was one of these living coils, about ten feet long, which, after
uncurving itself like a bow, again attacked the diver.

Benito knew what he had to fear from this formidable animal. His clothes
were powerless to protect him. The discharges of the gymnotus, at first
somewhat weak, become more and more violent, and there would come a time
when, exhausted by the shocks, he would be rendered powerless.

Benito, unable to resist the blows, half-dropped upon the sand. His
limbs were becoming paralyzed little by little under the electric
influences of the gymnotus, which lightly touched his body as it wrapped
him in its folds. His arms even he could not lift, and soon his spear
escaped him, and his hand had not strength enough left to pull the cord
and give the signal.

Benito felt that he was lost. Neither Manoel nor his companions could
suspect the horrible combat which was going on beneath them between the
formidable puraque and the unhappy diver, who only fought to suffer,
without any power of defending himself.

And that at the moment when a body--the body of Torres without a
doubt!--had just met his view.

By a supreme instinct of self-preservation Benito uttered a cry. His
voice was lost in the metallic sphere from which not a sound could
escape!

And now the puraque redoubled its attacks; it gave forth shock after
shock, which made Benito writhe on the sand like the sections of a
divided worm, and his muscles were wrenched again and again beneath the
living lash.

Benito thought that all was over; his eyes grew dim, his limbs began to
stiffen.

But before he quite lost his power of sight and reason he became the
witness of a phenomenon, unexpected, inexplicable, and marvelous in the
extreme.

A deadened roar resounded through the liquid depths. It was like a
thunder-clap, the reverberations of which rolled along the river bed,
then violently agitated by the electrical discharges of the gymnotus.
Benito felt himself bathed as it were in the dreadful booming which
found an echo in the very deepest of the river depths.

And then a last cry escaped him, for fearful was the vision which
appeared before his eyes!

The corpse of the drowned man which had been stretched on the sand
arose! The undulations of the water lifted up the arms, and they swayed
about as if with some peculiar animation. Convulsive throbs made the
movement of the corpse still more alarming.

It was indeed the body of Torres. One of the suns rays shot down to
it through the liquid mass, and Benito recognized the bloated, ashy
features of the scoundrel who fell by his own hand, and whose last
breath had left him beneath the waters.

And while Benito could not make a single movement with his paralyzed
limbs, while his heavy shoes kept him down as if he had been nailed to
the sand, the corpse straightened itself up, the head swayed to and fro,
and disentangling itself from the hole in which it had been kept by a
mass of aquatic weeds, it slowly ascended to the surface of the Amazon.


CHAPTER XI. THE CONTENTS OF THE CASE

WHAT WAS it that had happened? A purely physical phenomenon, of which
the following is the explanation.

The gunboat Santa Ana, bound for Manaos, had come up the river and
passed the bar at Frias. Just before she reached the _embouchure_ of the
Rio Negro she hoisted her colors and saluted the Brazilian flag. At the
report vibrations were produced along the surface of the stream, and
these vibrations making their way down to the bottom of the river, had
been sufficient to raise the corpse of Torres, already lightened by the
commencement of its decomposition and the distension of its cellular
system. The body of the drowned man had in the ordinary course risen to
the surface of the water.

This well-known phenomenon explains the reappearance of the corpse, but
it must be admitted that the arrival of the Santa Ana was a fortunate
coincidence.

By a shout from Manoel, repeated by all his companions, one of the
pirogues was immediately steered for the body, while the diver was at
the same time hauled up to the raft.

Great was Manoel's emotion when Benito, drawn on to the platform,
was laid there in a state of complete inertia, not a single exterior
movement betraying that he still lived.

Was not this a second corpse which the waters of the Amazon had given
up?

As quickly as possible the diving-dress was taken off him.

Benito had entirely lost consciousness beneath the violent shocks of the
gymnotus.

Manoel, distracted, called to him, breathed into him, and endeavored to
recover the heart's pulsation.

"It beats! It beats!" he exclaimed.

Yes! Benito's heart did still beat, and in a few minutes Manoel's
efforts restored him to life.

"The body! the Body!"

Such were the first words, the only ones which escaped from Benito's
lips.

"There it is!" answered Fragoso, pointing to a pirogue then coming up to
the raft with the corpse.

"But what has been the matter, Benito?" asked Manoel. "Has it been the
want of air?"

"No!" said Benito; "a puraque attacked me! But the noise? the
detonation?"

"A cannon shot!" replied Manoel. "It was the cannon shot which brought
the corpse to the surface."

At this moment the pirogue came up to the raft with the body of Torres,
which had been taken on board by the Indians. His sojourn in the water
had not disfigured him very much. He was easily recognizable, and there
was no doubt as to his identity.

Fragoso, kneeling down in the pirogue, had already begun to undo the
clothes of the drowned man, which came away in fragments.

At the moment Torres' right arm, which was now left bare, attracted
his attention. On it there appeared the distinct scar of an old wound
produced by a blow from a knife.

"That scar!" exclaimed Fragoso. "But--that is good! I remember now----"

"What?" demanded Manoel.

"A quarrel! Yes! a quarrel I witnessed in the province of Madeira three
years ago. How could I have forgotten it! This Torres was then a captain
of the woods. Ah! I know now where I had seen him, the scoundrel!"

"That does not matter to us now!" cried Benito. "The case! the case! Has
he still got that?" and Benito was about to tear away the last coverings
of the corpse to get at it.

Manoel stopped him.

"One moment, Benito," he said; and then, turning to the men on the
raft who did not belong to the jangada, and whose evidence could not be
suspected at any future time:

"Just take note, my friends," he said, "of what we are doing here, so
that you can relate before the magistrate what has passed."

The men came up to the pirogue.

Fragoso undid the belt which encircled the body of Torres underneath the
torn poncho, and feeling his breast-pocket, exclaimed:

"The case!"

A cry of joy escaped from Benito. He stretched forward to seize the
case, to make sure than it contained----

"No!" again interrupted Manoel, whose coolness did not forsake him. "It
is necessary that not the slightest possible doubt should exist in the
mind of the magistrate! It is better that disinterested witnesses should
affirm that this case was really found on the corpse of Torres!"

"You are right," replied Benito.

"My friend," said Manoel to the foreman of the raft, "just feel in the
pocket of the waistcoat."

The foreman obeyed. He drew forth a metal case, with the cover screwed
on, and which seemed to have suffered in no way from its sojourn in the
water.

"The paper! Is the paper still inside?" exclaimed Benito, who could not
contain himself.

"It is for the magistrate to open this case!" answered Manoel. "To him
alone belongs the duty of verifying that the document was found within
it."

"Yes, yes. Again you are right, Manoel," said Benito. "To Manaos, my
friends--to Manaos!"

Benito, Manoel, Fragoso, and the foreman who held the case, immediately
jumped into one of the pirogues, and were starting off, when Fragoso
said:

"And the corpse?"

The pirogue stopped.

In fact, the Indians had already thrown back the body into the water,
and it was drifting away down the river.

"Torres was only a scoundrel," said Benito. "If I had to fight him, it
was God that struck him, and his body ought not to go unburied!"

And so orders were given to the second pirogue to recover the corpse,
and take it to the bank to await its burial.

But at the same moment a flock of birds of prey, which skimmed along the
surface of the stream, pounced on the floating body. They were urubus,
a kind of small vulture, with naked necks and long claws, and black as
crows. In South America they are known as gallinazos, and their voracity
is unparalleled. The body, torn open by their beaks, gave forth the
gases which inflated it, its density increased, it sank down little
by little, and for the last time what remained of Torres disappeared
beneath the waters of the Amazon.

Ten minutes afterward the pirogue arrived at Manaos. Benito and his
companions jumped ashore, and hurried through the streets of the town.
In a few minutes they had reached the dwelling of Judge Jarriuez, and
informed him, through one of his servants, that they wished to see him
immediately.

The judge ordered them to be shown into his study.

There Manoel recounted all that had passed, from the moment when Torres
had been killed until the moment when the case had been found on his
corpse, and taken from his breast-pocket by the foreman.

Although this recital was of a nature to corroborate all that Joam
Dacosta had said on the subject of Torres, and of the bargain which he
had endeavored to make, Judge Jarriquez could not restrain a smile of
incredulity.

"There is the case, sir," said Manoel. "For not a single instant has
it been in our hands, and the man who gives it to you is he who took it
from the body of Torres."

The magistrate took the case and examined it with care, turning it over
and over as though it were made of some precious material. Then he shook
it, and a few coins inside sounded with a metallic ring. Did not, then,
the case contain the document which had been so much sought after--the
document written in the very hand of the true author of the crime of
Tijuco, and which Torres had wished to sell at such an ignoble price
to Joam Dacosta? Was this material proof of the convict's innocence
irrevocably lost?

We can easily imagine the violent agitation which had seized upon the
spectators of this scene. Benito could scarcely utter a word, he felt
his heart ready to burst. "Open it, sir! open the case!" he at last
exclaimed, in a broken voice.

Judge Jarriquez began to unscrew the lid; then, when the cover was
removed, he turned up the case, and from it a few pieces of gold dropped
out and rolled on the table.

"But the paper! the paper!" again gasped Benito, who clutched hold of
the table to save himself from falling.

The magistrate put his fingers into the case and drew out, not without
difficulty, a faded paper, folded with care, and which the water did not
seem to have even touched.

"The document! that is the document!" shouted Fragoso; "that is the very
paper I saw in the hands of Torres!"

Judge Jarriquez unfolded the paper and cast his eyes over it, and then
he turned it over so as to examine it on the back and the front, which
were both covered with writing. "A document it really is!" said he;
"there is no doubt of that. It is indeed a document!"

"Yes," replied Benito; "and that is the document which proves my
father's innocence!"

"I do not know that," replied Judge Jarriquez; "and I am much afraid it
will be very difficult to know it."

"Why?" exclaimed Benito, who became pale as death.

"Because this document is a cryptogram, and----"

"Well?"

"We have not got the key!"


CHAPTER XII. THE DOCUMENT

THIS WAS a contingency which neither Joam Dacosta nor his people could
have anticipated. In fact, as those who have not forgotten the first
scene in this story are aware, the document was written in a disguised
form in one of the numerous systems used in cryptography.

But in which of them?

To discover this would require all the ingenuity of which the human
brain was capable.

Before dismissing Benito and his companions, Judge Jarriquez had an
exact copy made of the document, and, keeping the original, handed it
over to them after due comparison, so that they could communicate with
the prisoner.

Then, making an appointment for the morrow, they retired, and not
wishing to lose an instant in seeing Joam Dacosta, they hastened on to
the prison, and there, in a short interview, informed him of all that
had passed.

Joam Dacosta took the document and carefully examined it. Shaking
his head, he handed it back to his son. "Perhaps," he said, "there is
therein written the proof I shall never be able to produce. But if that
proof escapes me, if the whole tenor of my life does not plead for me,
I have nothing more to expect from the justice of men, and my fate is in
the hands of God!"

And all felt it to be so. If the document remained indecipherable, the
position of the convict was a desperate one.

"We shall find it, father!" exclaimed Benito. "There never was
a document of this sort yet which could stand examination. Have
confidence--yes, confidence! Heaven has, so to speak, miraculously
given us the paper which vindicates you, and, after guiding our hands to
recover it, it will not refuse to direct our brains to unravel it."

Joam Dacosta shook hands with Benito and Manoel, and then the three
young men, much agitated, retired to the jangada, where Yaquita was
awaiting them.

Yaquita was soon informed of what had happened since the evening--the
reappearance of the body of Torres, the discovery of the document, and
the strange form under which the real culprit, the companion of the
adventurer, had thought proper to write his confession--doubtless, so
that it should not compromise him if it fell into strange hands.

Naturally, Lina was informed of this unexpected complication, and of the
discovery made by Fragoso that Torres was an old captain of the woods
belonging to the gang who were employed about the mouths of the Madeira.

"But under what circumstances did you meet him?" asked the young
mulatto.

"It was during one of my runs across the province of Amazones," replied
Fragoso, "when I was going from village to village, working at my
trade."

"And the scar?"

"What happened was this: One day I arrived at the mission of Aranas
at the moment that Torres, whom I had never before seen, had picked
a quarrel with one of his comrades--and a bad lot they are!--and this
quarrel ended with a stab from a knife, which entered the arm of the
captain of the woods. There was no doctor there, and so I took charge of
the wound, and that is how I made his acquaintance."

"What does it matter after all," replied the young girl, "that we know
what Torres had been? He was not the author of the crime, and it does
not help us in the least."

"No, it does not," answered Fragoso; "for we shall end by reading the
document, and then the innocence of Joam Dacosta will be palpable to the
eyes of all."

This was likewise the hope of Yaquita, of Benito, of Manoel, and of
Minha, and, shut up in the house, they passed long hours in endeavoring
to decipher the writing.

But if it was their hope--and there is no need to insist on that
point--it was none the less that of Judge Jarriquez.

After having drawn up his report at the end of his examination
establishing the identity of Joam Dacosta, the magistrate had sent it
off to headquarters, and therewith he thought he had finished with the
affair so far as he was concerned. It could not well be otherwise.

On the discovery of the document, Jarriquez suddenly found himself face
to face with the study of which he was a master. He, the seeker after
numerical combinations, the solver of amusing problems, the answerer of
charades, rebuses, logogryphs, and such things, was at last in his true
element.

At the thought that the document might perhaps contain the justification
of Joam Dacosta, he felt all the instinct of the analyst aroused. Here,
before his very eyes, was a cryptogram! And so from that moment he
thought of nothing but how to discover its meaning, and it is scarcely
necessary to say that he made up his mind to work at it continuously,
even if he forgot to eat or to drink.

After the departure of the young people, Judge Jarriquez installed
himself in his study. His door, barred against every one, assured him of
several hours of perfect solitude. His spectacles were on his nose,
his snuff-box on the table. He took a good pinch so as to develop the
finesse and sagacity of his mind. He picked up the document and became
absorbed in meditation, which soon became materialized in the shape of a
monologue. The worthy justice was one of those unreserved men who think
more easily aloud than to himself. "Let us proceed with method," he
said. "No method, no logic; no logic, no success."

Then, taking the document, he ran through it from beginning to end,
without understanding it in the least.

The document contained a hundred lines, which were divided into half a
dozen paragraphs.

"Hum!" said the judge, after a little reflection; "to try every
paragraph, one after the other, would be to lose precious time, and be
of no use. I had better select one of these paragraphs, and take the one
which is likely to prove the most interesting. Which of them would do
this better than the last, where the recital of the whole affair is
probably summed up? Proper names might put me on the track, among others
that of Joam Dacosta; and if he had anything to do with this document,
his name will evidently not be absent from its concluding paragraph."

The magistrate's reasoning was logical, and he was decidedly right in
bringing all his resources to bear in the first place on the gist of the
cryptogram as contained in its last paragraph.

Here is the paragraph, for it is necessary to again bring it before the
eyes of the reader so as to show how an analyst set to work to discover
its meaning.

_"P h y j s l y d d q f d z x g a s g z z q q e h x g k f n d r x u j u
g I o c y t d x v k s b x h h u y p o h d v y r y m h u h p u y d k j o
x p h e t o z l s l e t n p m v f f o v p d p a j x h y y n o j y g g a
y m e q y n f u q l n m v l y f g s u z m q I z t l b q q y u g s q e u
b v n r c r e d g r u z b l r m x y u h q h p z d r r g c r o h e p q x
u f I v v r p l p h o n t h v d d q f h q s n t z h h h n f e p m q k y
u u e x k t o g z g k y u u m f v I j d q d p z j q s y k r p l x h x q
r y m v k l o h h h o t o z v d k s p p s u v j h d."_

At the outset, Judge Jarrizuez noticed that the lines of the document
were not divided either into words or phrases, and that there was a
complete absence of punctuation. This fact could but render the reading
of the document more difficult.

"Let us see, however," he said, "if there is not some assemblage of
letters which appears to form a word--I mean a pronounceable word,
whose number of consonants is in proportion to its vowels. And at the
beginning I see the word _phy;_ further on the word _gas_. Halloo!
_ujugi_. Does that mean the African town on the banks of Tanganyika?
What has that got to do with all this? Further on here is the word
_ypo_. Is it Greek, then? Close by here is _rym_ and _puy,_ and _jox,_
and _phetoz,_ and _jyggay,_ and _mv,_ and _qruz_. And before that we
have got _red_ and _let_. That is good! those are two English words.
Then _ohe--syk;_ then _rym_ once more, and then the word _oto."_

Judge Jarriquez let the paper drop, and thought for a few minutes.

"All the words I see in this thing seem queer!" he said. "In fact, there
is nothing to give a clue to their origin. Some look like Greek, some
like Dutch; some have an English twist, and some look like nothing at
all! To say nothing of these series of consonants which are not wanted
in any human pronunciation. Most assuredly it will not be very easy to
find the key to this cryptogram."

The magistrate's fingers commenced to beat a tattoo on his desk--a kind
of reveille to arouse his dormant faculties.

"Let us see," he said, "how many letters there are in the paragraph."

He counted them, pen in hand.

"Two hundred and seventy-six!" he said. "Well, now let us try what
proportion these different letters bear to each other."

This occupied him for some time. The judge took up the document, and,
with his pen in his hand, he noted each letter in alphabetical order.

In a quarter of an hour he had obtained the following table:

         _a_ =  3 times
         _b_ =  4  --
         _c_ =  3  --
         _d_ = 16  --
         _e_ =  9  --
         _f_ = 10  --
         _g_ = 13  --
         _h_ = 23  --
         _i_ =  4  --
         _j_ =  8  --
         _k_ =  9  --
         _l_ =  9  --
         _m_ =  9  --
         _n_ =  9  --
         _o_ = 12  --
         _p_ = 16  --
         _q_ = 16  --
         _r_ = 12  --
         _s_ = 10  --
         _t_ =  8  --
         _u_ = 17  --
         _v_ = 13  --
         _x_ = 12  --
         _y_ = 19  --
         _z_ = 12  --
     ----------------
     Total... 276 times.

"Ah, ah!" he exclaimed. "One thing strikes me at once, and that is that
in this paragraph all the letters of the alphabet are not used. That is
very strange. If we take up a book and open it by chance it will be
very seldom that we shall hit upon two hundred and seventy-six letters
without all the signs of the alphabet figuring among them. After all, it
may be chance," and then he passed to a different train of thought.
"One important point is to see if the vowels and consonants are in their
normal proportion."

And so he seized his pen, counted up the vowels, and obtained the
following result:

         _a_ =  3 times
         _e_ =  9  --
         _i_ =  4  --
         _o_ = 12  --
         _u_ = 17  --
         _y_ = 19  --
     ----------------
     Total... 276 times.

"And thus there are in this paragraph, after we have done our
subtraction, sixty-four vowels and two hundred and twelve consonants.
Good! that is the normal proportion. That is about a fifth, as in the
alphabet, where there are six vowels among twenty-six letters. It is
possible, therefore, that the document is written in the language of our
country, and that only the signification of each letter is changed. If
it has been modified in regular order, and a _b_ is always represented
by an _l,_ and _o_ by a _v,_ a _g_ by a _k,_ an _u_ by an _r,_ etc., I
will give up my judgeship if I do not read it. What can I do better than
follow the method of that great analytical genius, Edgar Allan Poe?"

Judge Jarriquez herein alluded to a story by the great American
romancer, which is a masterpiece. Who has not read the "Gold Bug?" In
this novel a cryptogram, composed of ciphers, letters, algebraic signs,
asterisks, full-stops, and commas, is submitted to a truly mathematical
analysis, and is deciphered under extraordinary conditions, which the
admirers of that strange genius can never forget. On the reading of the
American document depended only a treasure, while on that of this
one depended a man's life. Its solution was consequently all the more
interesting.

The magistrate, who had often read and re-read his "Gold Bug," was
perfectly acquainted with the steps in the analysis so minutely
described by Edgar Poe, and he resolved to proceed in the same way on
this occasion. In doing so he was certain, as he had said, that if
the value or signification of each letter remained constant, he would,
sooner or later, arrive at the solution of the document.

"What did Edgar Poe do?" he repeated. "First of all he began by finding
out the sign--here there are only letters, let us say the letter--which
was reproduced the oftenest. I see that that is _h,_ for it is met with
twenty-three times. This enormous proportion shows, to begin with, that
_h_ does not stand for _h,_ but, on the contrary, that it represents the
letter which recurs most frequently in our language, for I suppose
the document is written in Portuguese. In English or French it would
certainly be _e,_ in Italian it would be _i_ or _a,_ in Portuguese it
will be _a_ or _o_. Now let us say that it signifies _a_ or _o."_

After this was done, the judge found out the letter which recurred most
frequently after _h,_ and so on, and he formed the following table:

         _h_ = 23 times
         _y_ = 19  --
         _u_ = 17  --
       _d p q_ = 16  --
        _g v_ = 13  --
      _o r x z_ = 12  --
        _f s_ = 10  --
     _e k l m n_ =  9  --
        _j t_ =  8  --
        _b i_ =  8  --
        _a c_ =  8  --

"Now the letter _a_ only occurs thrice!" exclaimed the judge, "and it
ought to occur the oftenest. Ah! that clearly proves that the meaning
had been changed. And now, after _a_ or _o,_ what are the letters which
figure oftenest in our language? Let us see," and Judge Jarriquez, with
truly remarkable sagacity, which denoted a very observant mind, started
on this new quest. In this he was only imitating the American romancer,
who, great analyst as he was, had, by simple induction, been able to
construct an alphabet corresponding to the signs of the cryptogram and
by means of it to eventually read the pirate's parchment note with ease.

The magistrate set to work in the same way, and we may affirm that he
was no whit inferior to his illustrious master. Thanks to his previous
work at logogryphs and squares, rectangular arrangements and other
enigmas, which depend only on an arbitrary disposition of the letters,
he was already pretty strong in such mental pastimes. On this
occasion he sought to establish the order in which the letters were
reproduced--vowels first, consonants afterward.

Three hours had elapsed since he began. He had before his eyes an
alphabet which, if his procedure were right, would give him the right
meaning of the letters in the document. He had only to successively
apply the letters of his alphabet to those of his paragraph. But before
making this application some slight emotion seized upon the judge. He
fully experienced the intellectual gratification--much greater than,
perhaps, would be thought--of the man who, after hours of obstinate
endeavor, saw the impatiently sought-for sense of the logogryph coming
into view.

"Now let us try," he said; "and I shall be very much surprised if I have
not got the solution of the enigma!"

Judge Jarriquez took off his spectacles and wiped the glasses; then he
put them back again and bent over the table. His special alphabet was in
one hand, the cryptogram in the other. He commenced to write under the
first line of the paragraph the true letters, which, according to him,
ought to correspond exactly with each of the cryptographic letters. As
with the first line so did he with the second, and the third, and the
fourth, until he reached the end of the paragraph.

Oddity as he was, he did not stop to see as he wrote if the assemblage
of letters made intelligible words. No; during the first stage his
mind refused all verification of that sort. What he desired was to give
himself the ecstasy of reading it all straight off at once.

And now he had done.

"Let us read!" he exclaimed.

And he read. Good heavens! what cacophony! The lines he had formed with
the letters of his alphabet had no more sense in them that those of
the document! It was another series of letters, and that was all.
They formed no word; they had no value. In short, they were just as
hieroglyphic.

"Confound the thing!" exclaimed Judge Jarriquez.


CHAPTER XIII. IS IT A MATTER OF FIGURES?

IT WAS SEVEN o'clock in the evening. Judge Jarriquez had all the time
been absorbed in working at the puzzle--and was no further advanced--and
had forgotten the time of repast and the time of repose, when there came
a knock at his study door.

It was time. An hour later, and all the cerebral substance of the vexed
magistrate would certainly have evaporated under the intense heat into
which he had worked his head.

At the order to enter--which was given in an impatient tone--the door
opened and Manoel presented himself.

The young doctor had left his friends on board the jangada at work on
the indecipherable document, and had come to see Judge Jarriquez. He was
anxious to know if he had been fortunate in his researches. He had come
to ask if he had at length discovered the system on which the cryptogram
had been written.

The magistrate was not sorry to see Manoel come in. He was in that state
of excitement that solitude was exasperating to him. He wanted some one
to speak to, some one as anxious to penetrate the mystery as he was.
Manoel was just the man.

"Sir," said Manoel as he entered, "one question! Have you succeeded
better than we have?"

"Sit down first," exclaimed Judge Jarriquez, who got up and began to
pace the room. "Sit down. If we are both of us standing, you will walk
one way and I shall walk the other, and the room will be too narrow to
hold us."

Manoel sat down and repeated his question.

"No! I have not had any success!" replied the magistrate; "I do not
think I am any better off. I have got nothing to tell you; but I have
found out a certainty."

"What is that, sir?"

"That the document is not based on conventional signs, but on what is
known in cryptology as a cipher, that is to say, on a number."

"Well, sir," answered Manoel, "cannot a document of that kind always be
read?"

"Yes," said Jarriquez, "if a letter is invariably represented by the
same letter; if an _a,_ for example, is always a _p,_ and a _p_ is
always an _x;_ if not, it cannot."

"And in this document?"

"In this document the value of the letter changes with the arbitrarily
selected cipher which necessitates it. So a _b_ will in one place be
represented by a _k_ will later on become a _z,_ later on an _u_ or an
_n_ or an _f,_ or any other letter."

"And then?"

"And then, I am sorry to say, the cryptogram is indecipherable."

"Indecipherable!" exclaimed Manoel. "No, sir; we shall end by finding
the key of the document on which the man's life depends."

Manoel had risen, a prey to the excitement he could not control; the
reply he had received was too hopeless, and he refused to accept it for
good.

At a gesture from the judge, however, he sat down again, and in a calmer
voice asked:

"And in the first place, sir, what makes you think that the basis of
this document is a number, or, as you call it, a cipher?"

"Listen to me, young man," replied the judge, "and you will be forced to
give in to the evidence."

The magistrate took the document and put it before the eyes of Manoel
and showed him what he had done.

"I began," he said, "by treating this document in the proper way, that
is to say, logically, leaving nothing to chance. I applied to it an
alphabet based on the proportion the letters bear to one another
which is usual in our language, and I sought to obtain the meaning by
following the precepts of our immortal analyst, Edgar Poe. Well, what
succeeded with him collapsed with me."

"Collapsed!" exclaimed Manoel.

"Yes, my dear young man, and I at once saw that success sought in that
fashion was impossible. In truth, a stronger man than I might have been
deceived."

"But I should like to understand," said Manoel, "and I do not----"

"Take the document," continued Judge Jarriquez; "first look at the
disposition of the letters, and read it through."

Manoel obeyed.

"Do you not see that the combination of several of the letters is very
strange?" asked the magistrate.

"I do not see anything," said Manoel, after having for perhaps the
hundredth time read through the document.

"Well! study the last paragraph! There you understand the sense of the
whole is bound to be summed up. Do you see anything abnormal?"

"Nothing."

"There is, however, one thing which absolutely proves that the language
is subject to the laws of number."

"And that is?"

"That is that you see three _h's_ coming together in two different
places."

What Jarriquez said was correct, and it was of a nature to attract
attention. The two hundred and fourth, two hundred and fifth, and two
hundred and sixth letters of the paragraph, and the two hundred and
fifty-eight, two hundred and fifty-ninth, and two hundred and sixtieth
letters of the paragraph were consecutive _h's_. At first this
peculiarity had not struck the magistrate.

"And that proves?" asked Manoel, without divining the deduction that
could be drawn from the combination.

"That simply proves that the basis of the document is a number. It shows
_à priori_ that each letter is modified in virtue of the ciphers of the
number and according to the place which it occupies."

"And why?"

"Because in no language will you find words with three consecutive
repetitions of the letter _h."_

Manoel was struck with the argument; he thought about it, and, in short,
had no reply to make.

"And had I made the observation sooner," continued the magistrate, "I
might have spared myself a good deal of trouble and a headache which
extends from my occiput to my sinciput."

"But, sir," asked Manoel, who felt the little hope vanishing on which he
had hitherto rested, "what do you mean by a cipher?"

"Tell me a number."

"Any number you like."

"Give me an example and you will understand the explanation better."

Judge Jarriquez sat down at the table, took up a sheet of paper and a
pencil, and said:

"Now, Mr. Manoel, let us choose a sentence by chance, the first that
comes; for instance:

_Judge Jarriquez has an ingenious mind._

I write this phrase so as to space the letters different and I get:

_Judgejarriquezhasaningeniousmind._

"That done," said the magistrate, to whom the phrase seemed to contain
a proposition beyond dispute, looking Manoel straight in the face,
"suppose I take a number by chance, so as to give a cryptographic form
to this natural succession of words; suppose now this word is composed
of three ciphers, and let these ciphers be 2, 3, and 4. Now on the line
below I put the number 234, and repeat it as many times as are necessary
to get to the end of the phrase, and so that every cipher comes
underneath a letter. This is what we get:

_J u d g e j a r r I q u e z h a s a n I n g e n I o u s m I n d_ 2 3 4
2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 And now,
Mr. Manoel, replacing each letter by the letter in advance of it in
alphabetical order according to the value of the cipher, we get:

                              _j_ + 2 = _l_
                              _u_ + 3 = _x_
                              _d_ + 4 = _h_
                              _g_ + 2 = _i_
                              _e_ + 3 = _h_
                              _j_ + 4 = _n_
                              _a_ + 2 = _c_
                              _r_ + 3 = _u_
                              _r_ + 4 = _v_
                              _i_ + 2 = _k_
                              _q_ + 3 = _t_
                              _u_ + 4 = _y_
                              _e_ + 2 = _g_
                              _a_ + 3 = _c_
                              _h_ + 4 = _t_
                              _a_ + 2 = _c_
                              _s_ + 3 = _v_
                              _a_ + 4 = _e_
                              _n_ + 2 = _p_
                              _i_ + 3 = _l_
                              _n_ + 4 = _r_
                              _g_ + 2 = _i_
                              _e_ + 3 = _h_
                              _n_ + 4 = _r_
                              _i_ + 2 = _k_
                              _o_ + 3 = _r_
                              _u_ + 4 = _y_
                              _s_ + 2 = _u_ and so on.

"If, on account of the value of the ciphers which compose the number
I come to the end of the alphabet without having enough complementary
letters to deduct, I begin again at the beginning. That is what happens
at the end of my name when the _z_ is replaced by the 3. As after _z_
the alphabet has no more letters, I commence to count from _a,_ and
so get the _c_. That done, when I get to the end of this cryptographic
system, made up of the 234--which was arbitrarily selected, do not
forget!--the phrase which you recognize above is replaced by

                  _lxhihncuvktygclveplrihrkryupmpg._

"And now, young man, just look at it, and do you not think it is very
much like what is in the document? Well, what is the consequence? Why,
that the signification of the letters depends on a cipher which chance
puts beneath them, and the cryptographic letter which answers to a
true one is not always the same. So in this phrase the first _j_ is
represented by an _l,_ the second by an _n;_ the first _e_ by an _h,_
the second b a _g,_ the third by an _h;_ the first _d_ is represented by
an _h,_ the last by a _g;_ the first _u_ by an _x,_ the last by a _y;_
the first and second _a's_ by a _c,_ the last by an _e;_ and in my own
name one _r_ is represented by a _u,_ the other by a _v._ and so on. Now
do you see that if you do not know the cipher 234 you will never be able
to read the lines, and consequently if we do not know the number of the
document it remains undecipherable."

On hearing the magistrate reason with such careful logic, Manoel was at
first overwhelmed, but, raising his head, he exclaimed:

"No, sir, I will not renounce the hope of finding the number!"

"We might have done so," answered Judge Jarriquez, "if the lines of the
document had been divided into words."

"And why?"

"For this reason, young man. I think we can assume that in the last
paragraph all that is written in these earlier paragraphs is summed up.
Now I am convinced that in it will be found the name of Joam Dacosta.
Well, if the lines had been divided into words, in trying the words one
after the other--I mean the words composed of seven letters, as the name
of Dacosta is--it would not have been impossible to evolve the number
which is the key of the document."

"Will you explain to me how you ought to proceed to do that, sir?" asked
Manoel, who probably caught a glimpse of one more hope.

"Nothing can be more simple," answered the judge. "Let us take, for
example, one of the words in the sentence we have just written--my
name, if you like. It is represented in the cryptogram by this queer
succession of letters, _ncuvktygc_. Well, arranging these letters in a
column, one under the other, and then placing against them the letters
of my name and deducting one from the other the numbers of their places
in alphabetical order, I see the following result:

                            Between _n_ and _j_ we have 4 letters
                              --    _c_ -- _a_    --    2    --
                              --    _u_ -- _r_    --    3    --
                              --    _v_ -- _r_    --    4    --
                              --    _k_ -- _i_    --    2    --
                              --    _t_ -- _q_    --    3    --
                              --    _y_ -- _u_    --    4    --
                              --    _g_ -- _e_    --    2    --
                              --    _c_ -- _z_    --    3    --

"Now what is the column of ciphers made up of that we have got by this
simple operation? Look here! 423 423 423, that is to say, of repetitions
of the numbers 423, or 234, or 342."

"Yes, that is it!" answered Manoel.

"You understand, then, by this means, that in calculating the true
letter from the false, instead of the false from the true, I have been
able to discover the number with ease; and the number I was in search of
is really the 234 which I took as the key of my cryptogram."

"Well, sir!" exclaimed Manoel, "if that is so, the name of Dacosta is in
the last paragraph; and taking successively each letter of those lines
for the first of the seven letters which compose his name, we ought to
get----"

"That would be impossible," interrupted the judge, "except on one
condition."

"What is that?"

"That the first cipher of the number should happen to be the first
letter of the word Dacosta, and I think you will agree with me that that
is not probable."

"Quite so!" sighed Manoel, who, with this improbability, saw the last
chance vanish.

"And so we must trust to chance alone," continued Jarriquez, who shook
his head, "and chance does not often do much in things of this sort."

"But still," said Manoel, "chance might give us this number."

"This number," exclaimed the magistrate--"this number? But how many
ciphers is it composed of? Of two, or three, or four, or nine, or ten?
Is it made of different ciphers only or of ciphers in different order
many times repeated? Do you not know, young man, that with the ordinary
ten ciphers, using all at a time, but without any repetition, you
can make three million two hundred and sixty-eight thousand and eight
hundred different numbers, and that if you use the same cipher more than
once in the number, these millions of combinations will be enormously
increased! And do you not know that if we employ every one of the five
hundred and twenty-five thousand and six hundred minutes of which the
year is composed to try at each of these numbers, it would take you six
years, and that you would want three centuries if each operation took
you an hour? No! You ask the impossible!"

"Impossible, sir?" answered Manoel. "An innocent man has been branded
as guilty, and Joam Dacosta is to lose his life and his honor while you
hold in your hands the material proof of his innocence! That is what is
impossible!"

"Ah! young man!" exclaimed Jarriquez, "who told you, after all, that
Torres did not tell a lie? Who told you that he really did have in his
hands a document written by the author of the crime? that this paper was
the document, and that this document refers to Joam Dacosta?"

"Who told me so?" repeated Manoel, and his face was hidden in his hands.

In fact, nothing could prove for certain that the document had anything
to do with the affair in the diamond province. There was, in fact,
nothing to show that it was not utterly devoid of meaning, and that it
had been imagined by Torres himself, who was as capable of selling a
false thing as a true one!

"It does not matter, Manoel," continued the judge, rising; "it does not
matter! Whatever it may be to which the document refers, I have not
yet given up discovering the cipher. After all, it is worth more than a
logogryph or a rebus!"

At these words Manoel rose, shook hands with the magistrate, and
returned to the jangada, feeling more hopeless when he went back than
when he set out.


CHAPTER XIV. CHANCE!

A COMPLETE change took place in public opinion on the subject of Joam
Dacosta. To anger succeeded pity. The population no longer thronged to
the prison of Manaos to roar out cries of death to the prisoner. On
the contrary, the most forward of them in accusing him of being the
principal author of the crime of Tijuco now averred that he was not
guilty, and demanded his immediate restoration to liberty. Thus it
always is with the mob--from one extreme they run to the other. But the
change was intelligible.

The events which had happened during the last few days--the struggle
between Benito and Torres; the search for the corpse, which had
reappeared under such extraordinary circumstances; the finding of the
"indecipherable" document, if we can so call it; the information it
concealed, the assurance that it contained, or rather the wish that it
contained, the material proof of the guiltlessness of Joam Dacosta; and
the hope that it was written by the real culprit--all these things had
contributed to work the change in public opinion. What the people had
desired and impatiently demanded forty-eight hours before, they now
feared, and that was the arrival of the instructions due from Rio de
Janeiro.

These, however, were not likely to be delayed.

Joam Dacosta had been arrested on the 24th of August, and examined next
day. The judge's report was sent off on the 26th. It was now the 28th.
In three or four days more the minister would have come to a decision
regarding the convict, and it was only too certain that justice would
take its course.

There was no doubt that such would be the case. On the other hand, that
the assurance of Dacosta's innocence would appear from the document,
was not doubted by anybody, neither by his family nor by the fickle
population of Manaos, who excitedly followed the phases of this dramatic
affair.

But, on the other hand, in the eyes of disinterested or indifferent
persons who were not affected by the event, what value could be assigned
to this document? and how could they even declare that it referred to
the crime in the diamond arrayal? It existed, that was undeniable; it
had been found on the corpse of Torres, nothing could be more certain.
It could even be seen, by comparing it with the letter in which Torres
gave the information about Joam Dacosta, that the document was not in
the handwriting of the adventurer. But, as had been suggested by Judge
Jarriquez, why should not the scoundrel have invented it for the sake of
his bargain? And this was less unlikely to be the case, considering
that Torres had declined to part with it until after his marriage with
Dacosta's daughter--that is to say, when it would have been impossible
to undo an accomplished fact.

All these views were held by some people in some form, and we can quite
understand what interest the affair created. In any case, the situation
of Joam Dacosta was most hazardous. If the document were not deciphered,
it would be just the same as if it did not exist; and if the secret of
the cryptogram were not miraculously divined or revealed before the end
of the three days, the supreme sentence would inevitably be suffered by
the doomed man of Tijuco. And this miracle a man attempted to perform!
The man was Jarriquez, and he now really set to work more in the
interest of Joam Dacosta than for the satisfaction of his analytical
faculties. A complete change had also taken place in his opinion. Was
not this man, who had voluntarily abandoned his retreat at Iquitos, who
had come at the risk of his life to demand his rehabilitation at the
hands of Brazilian justice, a moral enigma worth all the others put
together? And so the judge had resolved never to leave the document
until he had discovered the cipher. He set to work at it in a fury.
He ate no more; he slept no more! All his time was passed in inventing
combinations of numbers, in forging a key to force this lock!

This idea had taken possession of Judge Jarriquez's brain at the end
of the first day. Suppressed frenzy consumed him, and kept him in a
perpetual heat. His whole house trembled; his servants, black or white,
dared not come near him. Fortunately he was a bachelor; had there been
a Madame Jarriquez she would have had a very uncomfortable time of
it. Never had a problem so taken possession of this oddity, and he had
thoroughly made up his mind to get at the solution, even if his head
exploded like an overheated boiler under the tension of its vapor.

It was perfectly clear to the mind of the worthy magistrate that the key
to the document was a number, composed of two or more ciphers, but what
this number was all investigation seemed powerless to discover.

This was the enterprise on which Jarriquez, in quite a fury, was
engaged, and during this 28th of August he brought all his faculties to
bear on it, and worked away almost superhumanly.

To arrive at the number by chance, he said, was to lose himself in
millions of combinations, which would absorb the life of a first-rate
calculator. But if he could in no respect reckon on chance, was it
impossible to proceed by reasoning? Decidedly not! And so it was "to
reason till he became unreasoning" that Judge Jarriquez gave himself up
after vainly seeking repose in a few hours of sleep. He who ventured
in upon him at this moment, after braving the formal defenses which
protected his solitude, would have found him, as on the day before,
in his study, before his desk, with the document under his eyes, the
thousands of letters of which seemed all jumbled together and flying
about his head.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "why did not the scoundrel who wrote this separate
the words in this paragraph? We might--we will try--but no! However, if
there is anything here about the murder and the robbery, two or three
words there must be in it--'arrayal,' 'diamond,' 'Tijuco,' 'Dacosta,'
and others; and in putting down their cryptological equivalents
the number could be arrived at. But there is nothing--not a single
break!--not one word by itself! One word of two hundred and seventy-six
letters! I hope the wretch may be blessed two hundred and seventy-six
times for complicating his system in this way! He ought to be hanged two
hundred and seventy-six times!"

And a violent thump with his fist on the document emphasized this
charitable wish.

"But," continued the magistrate, "if I cannot find one of the words in
the body of the document, I might at least try my hand at the beginning
and end of each paragraph. There may be a chance there that I ought not
to miss."

And impressed with this idea Judge Jarriquez successively tried if the
letters which commenced or finished the different paragraphs could be
made to correspond with those which formed the most important word,
which was sure to be found somewhre, that of _Dacosta_.

He could do nothing of the kind.

In fact, to take only the last paragraph with which he began, the
formula was:

                        P  =  D                         h  =  a
                        y  =  c                         f  =  o
                        s  =  s                         l  =  t
                        y  =  a

Now, at the very first letter Jarriquez was stopped in his calculations,
for the difference in alphabetical position between the _d_ and the
_p_ gave him not one cipher, but two, namely, 12, and in this kind of
cryptograph only one letter can take the place of another.

It was the same for the seven last letters of the paragraph, _p s u v
j h d,_ of which the series also commences with a _p,_ and which in no
case could stand for the _d_ in _Dacosta,_ because these letters were in
like manner twelve spaces apart.

So it was not his name that figured here.

The same observation applies to the words _arrayal_ and _Tijuco,_ which
were successively tried, but whose construction did not correspond with
the cryptographic series.

After he had got so far, Judge Jarriquez, with his head nearly
splitting, arose and paced his office, went for fresh air to the
window, and gave utterance to a growl, at the noise of which a flock
of hummingbirds, murmuring among the foliage of a mimosa tree, betook
themselves to flight. Then he returned to the document.

He picked it up and turned it over and over.

"The humbug! the rascal!" he hissed; "it will end by driving me mad! But
steady! Be calm! Don't let our spirits go down! This is not the time!"

And then, having refreshed himself by giving his head a thorough
sluicing with cold water:

"Let us try another way," he said, "and as I cannot hit upon the number
from the arrangement of the letters, let us see what number the author
of the document would have chosen in confessing that he was the author
of the crime at Tijuco."

This was another method for the magistrate to enter upon, and maybe he
was right, for there was a certain amount of logic about it.

"And first let us try a date! Why should not the culprit have taken the
date of the year in which Dacosta, the innocent man he allowed to be
sentenced in his own place, was born? Was he likely to forget a number
which was so important to him? Then Joam Dacosta was born in 1804. Let
us see what 1804 will give us as a cryptographical number."

And Judge Jarriquez wrote the first letters of the paragraph, and
putting over them the number 1804 repeated thrice, he obtained

                        1804    1804    1804
                        _phyj    slyd    dqfd_

Then in counting up the spaces in alphabetical order, he obtained

                        _s.yf    rdy.    cif._

And this was meaningless! And he wanted three letters which he had to
replace by points, because the ciphers, 8, 4, and 4, which command the
three letters, _h, d,_ and _d,_ do not give corresponding letters in
ascending the series.

"That is not it again!" exclaimed Jarriquez. "Let us try another
number."

And he asked himself, if instead of this first date the author of the
document had not rather selected the date of the year in which the crime
was committed.

This was in 1826.

And so proceeding as above, he obtained.

                        1826    1826    1826
                        _phyj    slyd    dqfd_

and that gave

                        _o.vd    rdv.    cid._

the same meaningless series, the same absence of sense, as many letters
wanting as in the former instance, and for the same reason.

"Bother the number!" exclaimed the magistrate. "We must give it up
again. Let us have another one! Perhaps the rascal chose the number of
contos representing the amount of the booty!"

Now the value of the stolen diamonds was estimated at eight hundred and
thirty-four contos, or about 2,500,000 francs, and so the formula became

                      834    834    834    834
                      _phy    jsl    ydd    qfd_

and this gave a result as little gratifying as the others----

                      _het    bph    pa.    ic._

"Confound the document and him who imagined it!" shouted Jarriquez,
throwing down the paper, which was wafted to the other side of the room.
"It would try the patience of a saint!"

But the short burst of anger passed away, and the magistrate, who had
no idea of being beaten, picked up the paper. What he had done with the
first letters of the different paragraphs he did with the last--and
to no purpose. Then he tried everything his excited imagination could
suggest.

He tried in succession the numbers which represented Dacosta's age,
which would have been known to the author of the crime, the date of his
arrest, the date of the sentence at the Villa Rica assizes, the date
fixed for the execution, etc., etc., even the number of victims at the
affray at Tijuco!

Nothing! All the time nothing!

Judge Jarriquez had worked himself into such a state of exasperation
that there really was some fear that his mental faculties would lose
their balance. He jumped about, and twisted about, and wrestled about as
if he really had got hold of his enemy's body. Then suddenly he cried,
"Now for chance! Heaven help me now, logic is powerless!"

His hand seized a bell-pull hanging near his table. The bell rang
furiously, and the magistrate strode up to the door, which he opened.
"Bobo!" he shouted.

A moment or two elapsed.

Bobo was a freed negro, who was the privileged servant of Jarriquez.
He did not appear; it was evident that Bobo was afraid to come into his
master's room.

Another ring at the bell; another call to Bobo, who, for his own safety,
pretended to be deaf on this occasion. And now a third ring at the bell,
which unhitched the crank and broke the cord.

This time Bobo came up. "What is it, sir?" asked Bobo, prudently waiting
on the threshold.

"Advance, without uttering a single word!" replied the judge, whose
flaming eyes made the negro quake again.

Bobo advanced.

"Bobo," said Jarriquez, "attend to what I say, and answer immediately;
do not even take time to think, or I----"

Bobo, with fixed eyes and open mouth, brought his feet together like a
soldier and stood at attention.

"Are you ready?" asked his master.

"I am."

"Now, then, tell me, without a moment's thought--you understand--the
first number than comes into your head."

"76223," answered Bobo, all in a breath. Bobo thought he would please
his master by giving him a pretty large one!

Judge Jarriquez had run to the table, and, pencil in hand, had made out
a formula with the number given by Bobo, and which Bobo had in this way
only given him at a venture.

It is obvious that it was most unlikely that a number such as 76223 was
the key of the document, and it produced no other result than to
bring to the lips of Jarriquez such a vigorous ejaculation that Bobo
disappeared like a shot!


CHAPTER XV. THE LAST EFFORTS

THE MAGISTRATE, however, was not the only one who passed his time
unprofitably. Benito, Manoel, and Minha tried all they could together
to extract the secret from the document on which depended their father's
life and honor. On his part, Fragoso, aided by Lina, could not remain
quiet, but all their ingenuity had failed, and the number still escaped
them.

"Why don't you find it, Fragoso?" asked the young mulatto.

"I will find it," answered Fragoso.

And he did not find it!

Here we should say that Fragoso had an idea of a project of which he
had not even spoken to Lina, but which had taken full possession of his
mind. This was to go in search of the gang to which the ex-captain of
the woods had belonged, and to find out who was the probable author of
this cipher document, which was supposed to be the confession of the
culprit of Tijuco. The part of the Amazon where these people were
employed, the very place where Fragoso had met Torres a few years
before, was not very far from Manaos. He would only have to descend the
river for about fifty miles, to the mouth of the Madeira, a tributary
coming in on the right, and there he was almost sure to meet the head
of these _"capitaes do mato,"_ to which Torres belonged. In two days, or
three days at the outside, Fragoso could get into communication with the
old comrades of the adventurer.

"Yes! I could do that," he repeated to himself; "but what would be the
good of it, supposing I succeeded? If we are sure that one of Torres'
companions has recently died, would that prove him to be the author of
this crime? Would that show that he gave Torres a document in which he
announced himself the author of this crime, and exonerated Joam Dacosta?
Would that give us the key of the document? No! Two men only knew the
cipher--the culprit and Torres! And these two men are no more!"

So reasoned Fragoso. It was evident that his enterprise would do no
good. But the thought of it was too much for him. An irresistible
influence impelled him to set out, although he was not even sure of
finding the band on the Madeira. In fact, it might be engaged in some
other part of the province, and to come up with it might require more
time than Fragoso had at his disposal! And what would be the result?

It is none the less true, however, that on the 29th of August, before
sunrise, Fragoso, without saying anything to anybody, secretly left the
jangada, arrived at Manaos, and embarked in one of the egariteas which
daily descend the Amazon.

And great was the astonishment when he was not seen on board, and did
not appear during the day. No one, not even Lina, could explain the
absence of so devoted a servant at such a crisis.

Some of them even asked, and not without reason, if the poor fellow,
rendered desperate at having, when he met him on the frontier,
personally contributed to bringing Torres on board the raft, had not
made away with himself.

But if Fragoso could so reproach himself, how about Benito? In the first
place at Iquitos he had invited Torres to visit the fazenda; in the
second place he had brought him on board the jangada, to become
a passenger on it; and in the third place, in killing him, he had
annihilated the only witness whose evidence could save the condemned
man.

And so Benito considered himself responsible for everything--the
arrest of his father, and the terrible events of which it had been the
consequence.

In fact, had Torres been alive, Benito could not tell but that, in
some way or another, from pity or for reward, he would have finished
by handing over the document. Would not Torres, whom nothing could
compromise, have been persuaded to speak, had money been brought to bear
upon him? Would not the long-sought-for proof have been furnished to the
judge? Yes, undoubtedly! And the only man who could have furnished this
evidence had been killed through Benito!

Such was what the wretched man continually repeated to his mother, to
Manoel, and to himself. Such were the cruel responsibilities which his
conscience laid to his charge.

Between her husband, with whom she passed all the time that was allowed
her, and her son, a prey to despair which made her tremble for his
reason, the brave Yaquita lost none of her moral energy. In her they
found the valiant daughter of Magalhaës, the worthy wife of the fazender
of Iquitos.

The attitude of Joam Dacosta was well adapted to sustain her in this
ordeal. That gallant man, that rigid Puritan, that austere worker, whose
whole life had been a battle, had not yet shown a moment of weakness.

The most terrible blow which had struck him without prostrating him had
been the death of Judge Ribeiro, in whose mind his innocence did not
admit of a doubt. Was it not with the help of his old defender that he
had hoped to strive for his rehabilitation? The intervention of Torres
he had regarded throughout as being quite secondary for him. And of this
document he had no knowledge when he left Iquitos to hand himself over
to the justice of his country. He only took with him moral proofs. When
a material proof was unexpectedly produced in the course of the affair,
before or after his arrest, he was certainly not the man to despise it.
But if, on account of regrettable circumstances, the proof disappeared,
he would find himself once more in the same position as when he passed
the Brazilian frontier--the position of a man who came to say, "Here is
my past life; here is my present; here is an entirely honest existence
of work and devotion which I bring you. You passed on me at first an
erroneous judgment. After twenty-three years of exile I have come to
give myself up! Here I am; judge me again!"

The death of Torres, the impossibility of reading the document found on
him, had thus not produced on Joam Dacosta the impression which it had
on his children, his friends, his household, and all who were interested
in him.

"I have faith in my innocence," he repeated to Yaquita, "as I have
faith in God. If my life is still useful to my people, and a miracle is
necessary to save me, that miracle will be performed; if not, I shall
die! God alone is my judge!"

The excitement increased in Manaos as the time ran on; the affair was
discussed with unexampled acerbity. In the midst of this enthralment of
public opinion, which evoked so much of the mysterious, the document was
the principal object of conversation.

At the end of this fourth day not a single person doubted but that it
contained the vindication of the doomed man. Every one had been given
an opportunity of deciphering its incomprehensible contents, for the
"Diario d'o Grand Para" had reproduced it in facsimile. Autograph copies
were spread about in great numbers at the suggestion of Manoel, who
neglect nothing that might lead to the penetration of the mystery--not
even chance, that "nickname of Providence," as some one has called it.

In addition, a reward of one hundred contos (or three hundred thousand
francs) was promised to any one who could discover the cipher so
fruitlessly sought after--and read the document. This was quite a
fortune, and so people of all classes forgot to eat, drink, or sleep to
attack this unintelligible cryptogram.

Up to the present, however, all had been useless, and probably the most
ingenious analysts in the world would have spent their time in vain. It
had been advertised that any solution should be sent, without delay, to
Judge Jarriquez, to his house in God-the-Son Street; but the evening
of the 29th of August came and none had arrived, nor was any likely to
arrive.

Of all those who took up the study of the puzzle, Judge Jarriquez was
one of the most to be pitied. By a natural association of ideas, he also
joined in the general opinion that the document referred to the affair
at Tijuco, and that it had been written by the hand of the guilty man,
and exonerated Joam Dacosta. And so he put even more ardor into his
search for the key. It was not only the art for art's sake which guided
him, it was a sentiment of justice, of pity toward a man suffering under
an unjust condemnation. If it is the fact that a certain quantity of
phosphorus is expended in the work of the brain, it would be difficult
to say how many milligrammes the judge had parted with to excite
the network of his "sensorium," and after all, to find out nothing,
absolutely nothing.

But Jarriquez had no idea of abandoning the inquiry. If he could only
now trust to chance, he would work on for that chance. He tried to evoke
it by all means possible and impossible. He had given himself over to
fury and anger, and, what was worse, to impotent anger!

During the latter part of this day he had been trying different
numbers--numbers selected arbitrarily--and how many of them can scarcely
be imagined. Had he had the time, he would not have shrunk from plunging
into the millions of combinations of which the ten symbols of numeration
are capable. He would have given his whole life to it at the risk of
going mad before the year was out. Mad! was he not that already? He had
had the idea that the document might be read through the paper, and so
he turned it round and exposed it to the light, and tried it in that
way.

Nothing! The numbers already thought of, and which he tried in this new
way, gave no result. Perhaps the document read backward, and the last
letter was really the first, for the author would have done this had he
wished to make the reading more difficult.

Nothing! The new combination only furnished a series of letters just as
enigmatic.

At eight o'clock in the evening Jarriquez, with his face in his hands,
knocked up, worn out mentally and physically, had neither strength to
move, to speak, to think, or to associate one idea with another.

Suddenly a noise was heard outside. Almost immediately, notwithstanding
his formal orders, the door of his study was thrown open. Benito and
Manoel were before him, Benito looking dreadfully pale, and Manoel
supporting him, for the unfortunate young man had hardly strength to
support himself.

The magistrate quickly arose.

"What is it, gentlemen? What do you want?" he asked.

"The cipher! the cipher!" exclaimed Benito, mad with grief--"the cipher
of the document."

"Do you know it, then?" shouted the judge.

"No, sir," said Manoel. "But you?"

"Nothing! nothing!"

"Nothing?" gasped Benito, and in a paroxysm of despair he took a knife
from his belt and would have plunged it into his breast had not the
judge and Manoel jumped forward and managed to disarm him.

"Benito," said Jarriquez, in a voice which he tried to keep calm, "if
you father cannot escape the expiation of a crime which is not his, you
could do something better than kill yourself."

"What?" said Benito.

"Try and save his life!"

"How?"

"That is for you to discover," answered the magistrate, "and not for me
to say."


CHAPTER XVI. PREPARATIONS

ON THE FOLLOWING day, the 30th of August, Benito and Manoel talked
matters over together. They had understood the thought to which the
judge had not dared to give utterance in their presence, and were
engaged in devising some means by which the condemned man could escape
the penalty of the law.

Nothing else was left for them to do. It was only too certain that for
the authorities at Rio Janeiro the undeciphered document would have no
value whatever, that it would be a dead letter, that the first verdict
which declared Joam Dacosta the perpetrator of the crime at Tijuco
would not be set aside, and that, as in such cases no commutation of the
sentence was possible, the order for his execution would inevitably be
received.

Once more, then, Joam Dacosta would have to escape by flight from an
unjust imprisonment.

It was at the outset agreed between the two young men that the secret
should be carefully kept, and that neither Yaquita nor Minha should be
informed of preparations, which would probably only give rise to
hopes destined never to be realized. Who could tell if, owing to
some unforeseen circumstance, the attempt at escape would not prove a
miserable failure?

The presence of Fragoso on such an occasion would have been most
valuable. Discreet and devoted, his services would have been most
welcome to the two young fellows; but Fragoso had not reappeared. Lina,
when asked, could only say that she knew not what had become of him, nor
why he had left the raft without telling her anything about it.

And assuredly, had Fragoso foreseen that things would have turned out
as they were doing, he would never have left the Dacosta family on an
expedition which appeared to promise no serious result. Far better
for him to have assisted in the escape of the doomed man than to have
hurried off in search of the former comrades of Torres!

But Fragoso was away, and his assistance had to be dispensed with.

At daybreak Benito and Manoel left the raft and proceeded to Manaos.
They soon reached the town, and passed through its narrow streets, which
at that early hour were quite deserted. In a few minutes they arrived in
front of the prison. The waste ground, amid which the old convent which
served for a house of detention was built, was traversed by them in all
directions, for they had come to study it with the utmost care.

Fifty-five feet from the ground, in an angle of the building, they
recognized the window of the cell in which Joam Dacosta was confined.
The window was secured with iron bars in a miserable state of repair,
which it would be easy to tear down or cut through if they could only
get near enough. The badly jointed stones in the wall, which were
crumbled away every here and there, offered many a ledge for the feet to
rest on, if only a rope could be fixed to climb up by. One of the bars
had slipped out of its socket, and formed a hook over which it might
be possible to throw a rope. That done, one or two of the bars could be
removed, so as to permit a man to get through. Benito and Manoel would
then have to make their way into the prisoner's room, and without much
difficulty the escape could be managed by means of the rope fastened to
the projecting iron. During the night, if the sky were very cloudy, none
of these operations would be noticed before the day dawned. Joam Dacosta
could get safely away.

Manoel and Benito spent an hour about the spot, taking care not to
attract attention, but examining the locality with great exactness,
particularly as regarded the position of the window, the arrangement of
the iron bars, and the place from which it would be best to throw the
line.

"That is agreed," said Manoel at length. "And now, ought Joam Dacosta to
be told about this?"

"No, Manoel. Neither to him, any more than to my mother, ought we
to impart the secret of an attempt in which there is such a risk of
failure."

"We shall succeed, Benito!" continued Manoel. "However, we must prepare
for everything; and in case the chief of the prison should discover us
at the moment of escape----"

"We shall have money enough to purchase his silence," answered Benito.

"Good!" replied Manoel. "But once your father is out of prison he
cannot remain hidden in the town or on the jangada. Where is he to find
refuge?"

This was the second question to solve: and a very difficult one it was.

A hundred paces away from the prison, however, the waste land was
crossed by one of those canals which flow through the town into the Rio
Negro. This canal afforded an easy way of gaining the river if a pirogue
were in waiting for the fugitive. From the foot of the wall to the canal
side was hardly a hundred yards.

Benito and Manoel decided that about eight o'clock in the evening one
of the pirogues, with two strong rowers, under the command of the pilot
Araujo, should start from the jangada. They could ascend the Rio
Negro, enter the canal, and, crossing the waste land, remain concealed
throughout the night under the tall vegetation on the banks.

But once on board, where was Joam Dacosta to seek refuge? To return to
Iquitos was to follow a road full of difficulties and peril, and a long
one in any case, should the fugitive either travel across the country or
by the river. Neither by horse not pirogue could he be got out of danger
quickly enough, and the fazenda was no longer a safe retreat. He would
not return to it as the fazender, Joam Garral, but as the convict, Joam
Dacosta, continually in fear of his extradition. He could never dream of
resuming his former life.

To get away by the Rio Negro into the north of the province, or even
beyond the Brazilian territory, would require more time than he could
spare, and his first care must be to escape from immediate pursuit.

To start again down the Amazon? But stations, village, and towns
abounded on both sides of the river. The description of the fugitive
would be sent to all the police, and he would run the risk of being
arrested long before he reached the Atlantic. And supposing he reached
the coast, where and how was he to hide and wait for a passage to put
the sea between himself and his pursuers?

On consideration of these various plans, Benito and Manoel agreed that
neither of them was practicable. One, however, did offer some chance of
safety, and that was to embark in the pirogue, follow the canal into the
Rio Negro, descend this tributary under the guidance of the pilot, reach
the confluence of the rivers, and run down the Amazon along its
right bank for some sixty miles during the nights, resting during the
daylight, and so gaining the _embouchure_ of the Madeira.

This tributary, which, fed by a hundred affluents, descends from the
watershed of the Cordilleras, is a regular waterway opening into the
very heart of Bolivia. A pirogue could pass up it and leave no trace of
its passage, and a refuge could be found in some town or village beyond
the Brazilian frontier. There Joam Dacosta would be comparatively
safe, and there for several months he could wait for an opportunity of
reaching the Pacific coast and taking passage in some vessel leaving one
of its ports; and if the ship were bound for one of the States of North
America he would be free. Once there, he could sell the fazenda, leave
his country forever, and seek beyond the sea, in the Old World, a final
retreat in which to end an existence so cruelly and unjustly disturbed.
Anywhere he might go, his family--not excepting Manoel, who was bound
to him by so many ties--would assuredly follow without the slightest
hesitation.

"Let us go," said Benito; "we must have all ready before night, and we
have no time to lose."

The young men returned on board by way of the canal bank, which led
along the Rio Negro. They satisfied themselves that the passage of the
pirogue would be quite possible, and that no obstacles such as locks or
boats under repair were there to stop it. They then descended the left
bank of the tributary, avoiding the slowly-filling streets of the town,
and reached the jangada.

Benito's first care was to see his mother. He felt sufficiently master
of himself to dissemble the anxiety which consumed him. He wished to
assure her that all hope was not lost, that the mystery of the document
would be cleared up, that in any case public opinion was in favor of
Joam, and that, in face of the agitation which was being made in his
favor, justice would grant all the necessary time for the production
of the material proof his innocence. "Yes, mother," he added, "before
to-morrow we shall be free from anxiety."

"May heaven grant it so!" replied Yaquita, and she looked at him so
keenly that Benito could hardly meet her glance.

On his part, and as if by pre-arrangement, Manoel had tried to reassure
Minha by telling her that Judge Jarriquez was convinced of the innocence
of Joam, and would try to save him by every means in his power.

"I only wish he would, Manoel," answered she, endeavoring in vain to
restrain her tears.

And Manoel left her, for the tears were also welling up in his eyes
and witnessing against the words of hope to which he had just given
utterance.

And now the time had arrived for them to make their daily visit to the
prisoner, and Yaquita and her daughter set off to Manaos.

For an hour the young men were in consultation with Araujo. They
acquainted him with their plan in all its details, and they discussed
not only the projected escape, but the measures which were necessary for
the safety of the fugitive.

Araujo approved of everything; he undertook during the approaching night
to take the pirogue up the canal without attracting any notice, and he
knew its course thoroughly as far as the spot where he was to await the
arrival of Joam Dacosta. To get back to the mouth of the Rio Negro was
easy enough, and the pirogue would be able to pass unnoticed among the
numerous craft continually descending the river.

Araujo had no objection to offer to the idea of following the Amazon
down to its confluence with the Madeira. The course of the Madeira was
familiar to him for quite two hundred miles up, and in the midst of
these thinly-peopled provinces, even if pursuit took place in their
direction, all attempts at capture could be easily frustrated; they
could reach the interior of Bolivia, and if Joam decided to leave his
country he could procure a passage with less danger on the coast of the
Pacific than on that of the Atlantic.

Araujo's approval was most welcome to the young fellows; they had great
faith in the practical good sense of the pilot, and not without reason.
His zeal was undoubted, and he would assuredly have risked both life and
liberty to save the fazender of Iquitos.

With the utmost secrecy Araujo at once set about his preparations. A
considerable sum in gold was handed over to him by Benito to meet all
eventualities during the voyage on the Madeira. In getting the pirogue
ready, he announced his intention of going in search of Fragoso, whose
fate excited a good deal of anxiety among his companions. He stowed away
in the boat provisions for many days, and did not forget the ropes and
tools which would be required by the young men when they reached the
canal at the appointed time and place.

These preparations evoked no curiosity on the part of the crew of the
jangada, and even the two stalwart negroes were not let into the secret.
They, however, could be absolutely depended on. Whenever they learned
what the work of safety was in which they were engaged--when Joam
Dacosta, once more free, was confided to their charge--Araujo knew well
that they would dare anything, even to the risk of their own lives, to
save the life of their master.

By the afternoon all was ready, and they had only the night to wait for.
But before making a start Manoel wished to call on Judge Jarriquez for
the last time. The magistrate might perhaps have found out something new
about the document. Benito preferred to remain on the raft and wait for
the return of his mother and sister.

Manoel then presented himself at the abode of Judge Jarriquez, and was
immediately admitted.

The magistrate, in the study which he never quitted, was still the
victim of the same excitement. The document crumpled by his impatient
fingers, was still there before his eyes on the table.

"Sir," said Manoel, whose voice trembled as he asked the question, "have
you received anything from Rio de Janeiro."

"No," answered the judge; "the order has not yet come to hand, but it
may at any moment."

"And the document?"

"Nothing yet!" exclaimed he. "Everything my imagination can suggest I
have tried, and no result."

"None?"

"Nevertheless, I distinctly see one word in the document--only one!"

"What is that--what is the word?"

"'Fly'!"

Manoel said nothing, but he pressed the hand which Jarriquez held out to
him, and returned to the jangada to wait for the moment of action.


CHAPTER XVII. THE LAST NIGHT

THE VISIT of Yaquita and her daughter had been like all such visits
during the few hours which each day the husband and wife spent together.
In the presence of the two beings whom Joam so dearly loved his
heart nearly failed him. But the husband--the father--retained his
self-command. It was he who comforted the two poor women and inspired
them with a little of the hope of which so little now remained to him.
They had come with the intention of cheering the prisoner. Alas! far
more than he they themselves were in want of cheering! But when they
found him still bearing himself unflinchingly in the midst of his
terrible trial, they recovered a little of their hope.

Once more had Joam spoken encouraging words to them. His indomitable
energy was due not only to the feeling of his innocence, but to his
faith in that God, a portion of whose justice yet dwells in the hearts
of men. No! Joam Dacosta would never lose his life for the crime of
Tijuco!

Hardly ever did he mention the document. Whether it were apocryphal or
no, whether it were in the handwriting of Torres or in that of the real
perpetrator of the crime, whether it contained or did not contain the
longed-for vindication, it was on no such doubtful hypothesis that Joam
Dacosta presumed to trust. No; he reckoned on a better argument in his
favor, and it was to his long life of toil and honor that he relegated
the task of pleading for him.

This evening, then, his wife and daughter, strengthened by the manly
words, which thrilled them to the core of their hearts, had left him
more confident than they had ever been since his arrest. For the last
time the prisoner had embraced them, and with redoubled tenderness. It
seemed as though the _dénouement_ was nigh.

Joam Dacosta, after they had left, remained for some time perfectly
motionless. His arms rested on a small table and supported his head. Of
what was he thinking? Had he at last been convinced that human justice,
after failing the first time, would at length pronounce his acquittal?

Yes, he still hoped. With the report of Judge Jarriquez establishing
his identity, he knew that his memoir, which he had penned with so much
sincerity, would have been sent to Rio de Janeiro, and was now in the
hands of the chief justice. This memoir, as we know, was the history of
his life from his entry into the offices of the diamond arrayal until
the very moment when the jangada stopped before Manaos. Joam Dacosta was
pondering over his whole career. He again lived his past life from the
moment when, as an orphan, he had set foot in Tijuco. There his zeal had
raised him high in the offices of the governor-general, into which he
had been admitted when still very young. The future smiled on him; he
would have filled some important position. Then this sudden catastrophe;
the robbery of the diamond convoy, the massacre of the escort, the
suspicion directed against him as the only official who could have
divulged the secret of the expedition, his arrest, his appearance before
the jury, his conviction in spite of all the efforts of his advocate,
the last hours spent in the condemned cell at Villa Rica, his escape
under conditions which betokened almost superhuman courage, his flight
through the northern provinces, his arrival on the Peruvian frontier,
and the reception which the starving fugitive had met with from the
hospitable fazender Magalhaës.

The prisoner once more passed in review these events, which had
so cruelly marred his life. And then, lost in his thoughts and
recollections, he sat, regardless of a peculiar noise on the outer wall
of the convent, of the jerkings of a rope hitched on to a bar of his
window, and of grating steel as it cut through iron, which ought at once
to have attracted the attention of a less absorbed man.

Joam Dacosta continued to live the years of his youth after his arrival
in Peru. He again saw the fazender, the clerk, the partner of the old
Portuguese, toiling hard for the prosperity of the establishment at
Iquitos. Ah! why at the outset had he not told all to his benefactor? He
would never have doubted him. It was the only error with which he could
reproach himself. Why had he not confessed to him whence he had come,
and who he was--above all, at the moment when Magalhaës had place in his
hand the hand of the daughter who would never have believed that he was
the author of so frightful a crime.

And now the noise outside became loud enough to attract the prisoner's
attention. For an instant Joam raised his head; his eyes sought the
window, but with a vacant look, as though he were unconscious, and the
next instant his head again sank into his hands. Again he was in thought
back at Iquitos.

There the old fazender was dying; before his end he longed for the
future of his daughter to be assured, for his partner to be the sole
master of the settlement which had grown so prosperous under his
management. Should Dacosta have spoken then? Perhaps; but he dared not
do it. He again lived the happy days he had spent with Yaquita, and
again thought of the birth of his children, again felt the happiness
which had its only trouble in the remembrances of Tijuco and the remorse
that he had not confessed his terrible secret.

The chain of events was reproduced in Joam's mind with a clearness and
completeness quite remarkable.

And now he was thinking of the day when his daughter's marriage with
Manoel had been decided. Could he allow that union to take place under a
false name without acquainting the lad with the mystery of his life? No!
And so at the advice of Judge Ribeiro he resolved to come and claim the
revision of his sentence, to demand the rehabilitation which was his
due! He was starting with his people, and then came the intervention of
Torres, the detestable bargain proposed by the scoundrel, the indignant
refusal of the father to hand over his daughter to save his honor and
his life, and then the denunciation and the arrest!

Suddenly the window flew open with a violent push from without.

Joam started up; the souvenire of the past vanished like a shadow.

Benito leaped into the room; he was in the presence of his father, and
the next moment Manoel, tearing down the remaining bars, appeared before
him.

Joam Dacosta would have uttered a cry of surprise. Benito left him no
time to do so.

"Father," he said, "the window grating is down. A rope leads to the
ground. A pirogue is waiting for you on the canal not a hundred yards
off. Araujo is there ready to take you far away from Manaos, on the
other bank of the Amazon where your track will never be discovered.
Father, you must escape this very moment! It was the judge's own
suggestion!"

"It must be done!" added Manoel.

"Fly! I!--Fly a second time! Escape again?"

And with crossed arms, and head erect, Joam Dacosta stepped forward.

"Never!" he said, in a voice so firm that Benito and Manoel stood
bewildered.

The young men had never thought of a difficulty like this. They had
never reckoned on the hindrances to escape coming from the prisoner
himself.

Benito advanced to his father, and looking him straight in the face, and
taking both his hands in his, not to force him, but to try and convince
him, said:

"Never, did you say, father?"

"Never!"

"Father," said Manoel--"for I also have the right to call you
father--listen to us! If we tell you that you ought to fly without
losing an instant, it is because if you remain you will be guilty toward
others, toward yourself!"

"To remain," continued Benito, "is to remain to die! The order for
execution may come at any moment! If you imagine that the justice of
men will nullify a wrong decision, if you think it will rehabilitate you
whom it condemned twenty years since, you are mistaken! There is hope no
longer! You must escape! Come!"

By an irresistible impulse Benito seized his father and drew him toward
the window.

Joam Dacosta struggled from his son's grasp and recoiled a second time.

"To fly," he answered, in the tone of a man whose resolution was
unalterable, "is to dishonor myself, and you with me! It would be a
confession of my guilt! Of my own free will I surrendered myself to
my country's judges, and I will await their decision, whatever that
decision may be!"

"But the presumptions on which you trusted are insufficient," replied
Manoel, "and the material proof of your innocence is still wanting! If
we tell you that you ought to fly, it is because Judge Jarriquez himself
told us so. You have now only this one chance left to escape from
death!"

"I will die, then," said Joam, in a calm voice. "I will die protesting
against the decision which condemned me! The first time, a few hours
before the execution--I fled! Yes! I was then young. I had all my life
before me in which to struggle against man's injustice! But to save
myself now, to begin again the miserable existence of a felon hiding
under a false name, whose every effort is required to avoid the pursuit
of the police, again to live the life of anxiety which I have led for
twenty-three years, and oblige you to share it with me; to wait each
day for a denunciation which sooner or later must come, to wait for the
claim for extradition which would follow me to a foreign country! Am I
to live for that? No! Never!"

"Father," interrupted Benito, whose mind threatened to give way before
such obstinacy, "you shall fly! I will have it so!" And he caught hold
of Joam Dacosta, and tried by force to drag him toward the window.

"No! no!"

"You wish to drive me mad?"

"My son," exclaimed Joam Dacosta, "listen to me! Once already I
escaped from the prison at Villa Rica, and people believed I fled from
well-merited punishment. Yes, they had reason to think so. Well, for the
honor of the name which you bear I shall not do so again."

Benito had fallen on his knees before his father. He held up his hands
to him; he begged him:

"But this order, father," he repeated, "this order which is due
to-day--even now--it will contain your sentence of death."

"The order may come, but my determination will not change. No, my son!
Joam Dacosta, guilty, might fly! Joam Dacosta, innocent, will not fly!"

The scene which followed these words was heart-rending. Benito struggled
with his father. Manoel, distracted, kept near the window ready to carry
off the prisoner--when the door of the room opened.

On the threshold appeared the chief of the police, accompanied by the
head warder of the prison and a few soldiers. The chief of the police
understood at a glance that an attempt at escape was being made; but he
also understood from the prisoner's attitude that he it was who had
no wish to go! He said nothing. The sincerest pity was depicted on his
face. Doubtless he also, like Judge Jarriquez, would have liked Dacosta
to have escaped.

It was too late!

The chief of the police, who held a paper in his hand, advanced toward
the prisoner.

"Before all of you," said Joam Dacosta, "let me tell you, sir, that it
only rested with me to get away, and that I would not do so."

The chief of the police bowed his head, and then, in a voice which he
vainly tried to control:

"Joam Dacosta," he said, "the order has this moment arrived from the
chief justice at Rio Janeiro."

"Father!" exclaimed Manoel and Benito.

"This order," asked Joam Dacosta, who had crossed his arms, "this order
requires the execution of my sentence?"

"Yes!"

"And that will take place?"

"To-morrow."

Benito threw himself on his father. Again would he have dragged him
from his cell, but the soldiers came and drew away the prisoner from his
grasp.

At a sign from the chief of the police Benito and Manoel were taken
away. An end had to be put to this painful scene, which had already
lasted too long.

"Sir," said the doomed man, "before to-morrow, before the hour of my
execution, may I pass a few moments with Padre Passanha, whom I ask you
to tell?"

"It will be forbidden."

"May I see my family, and embrace for a last time my wife and children?"

"You shall see them."

"Thank you, sir," answered Joam; "and now keep guard over that window;
it will not do for them to take me out of here against my will."

And then the chief of the police, after a respectful bow, retired with
the warder and the soldiers.

The doomed man, who had now but a few hours to live, was left alone.


CHAPTER XVIII. FRAGOSO

AND SO the order had come, and, as Judge Jarriquez had foreseen, it was
an order requiring the immediate execution of the sentence pronounced on
Joam Dacosta. No proof had been produced; justice must take its course.

It was the very day--the 31st of August, at nine o'clock in the morning
of which the condemned man was to perish on the gallows.

The death penalty in Brazil is generally commuted except in the case of
negroes, but this time it was to be suffered by a white man.

Such are the penal arrangements relative to crimes in the diamond
arrayal, for which, in the public interest, the law allows no appear to
mercy.

Nothing could now save Joam Dacosta. It was not only life, but honor
that he was about to lose.

But on the 31st of August a man was approaching Manaos with all the
speed his horse was capable of, and such had been the pace at which
he had come that half a mile from the town the gallant creature fell,
incapable of carrying him any further.

The rider did not even stop to raise his steed. Evidently he had asked
and obtained from it all that was possible, and, despite the state of
exhaustion in which he found himself, he rushed off in the direction of
the city.

The man came from the eastern provinces, and had followed the left bank
of the river. All his means had gone in the purchase of this horse,
which, swifter far than any pirogue on the Amazon, had brought him to
Manaos.

It was Fragoso!

Had, then, the brave fellow succeeded in the enterprise of which he had
spoken to nobody? Had he found the party to which Torres belonged? Had
he discovered some secret which would yet save Joam Dacosta?

He hardly knew. But in any case he was in great haste to acquaint Judge
Jarriquez with what he had ascertained during his short excursion.

And this is what had happened.

Fragoso had made no mistake when he recognized Torres as one of the
captains of the party which was employed in the river provinces of the
Madeira.

He set out, and on reaching the mouth of that tributary he learned that
the chief of these _capitaes da mato_ was then in the neighborhood.

Without losing a minute, Fragoso started on the search, and, not without
difficulty, succeeded in meeting him.

To Fragoso's questions the chief of the party had no hesitation in
replying; he had no interest in keeping silence with regard to the few
simple matters on which he was interrogated. In fact, three questions
only of importance were asked him by Fragoso, and these were:

"Did not a captain of the woods named Torres belong to your party a few
months ago?"

"Yes."

"At that time had he not one intimate friend among his companions who
has recently died?"

"Just so!"

"And the name of that friend was?"

"Ortega."

This was all that Fragoso had learned. Was this information of a kind to
modify Dacosta's position? It was hardly likely.

Fragoso saw this, and pressed the chief of the band to tell him what
he knew of this Ortega, of the place where he came from, and of his
antecedents generally. Such information would have been of great
importance if Ortega, as Torres had declared, was the true author of
the crime of Tijuco. But unfortunately the chief could give him no
information whatever in the matter.

What was certain was that Ortega had been a member of the band for many
years, that an intimate friendship existed between him and Torres,
that they were always seen together, and that Torres had watched at his
bedside when he died.

This was all the chief of the band knew, and he could tell no more.
Fragoso, then, had to be contented with these insignificant details, and
departed immediately.

But if the devoted fellow had not brought back the proof that Ortega was
the author of the crime of Tijuco, he had gained one thing, and that was
the knowledge that Torres had told the truth when he affirmed that
one of his comrades in the band had died, and that he had been present
during his last moments.

The hypothesis that Ortega had given him the document in question had
now become admissible. Nothing was more probable than that this document
had reference to the crime of which Ortega was really the author,
and that it contained the confession of the culprit, accompanied by
circumstances which permitted of no doubt as to its truth.

And so, if the document could be read, if the key had been found, if the
cipher on which the system hung were known, no doubt of its truth could
be entertained.

But this cipher Fragoso did not know. A few more presumptions, a
half-certainty that the adventurer had invented nothing, certain
circumstances tending to prove that the secret of the matter was
contained in the document--and that was all that the gallant fellow
brought back from his visit to the chief of the gang of which Torres had
been a member.

Nevertheless, little as it was, he was in all haste to relate it to
Judge Jarriquez. He knew that he had not an hour to lose, and that was
why on this very morning, at about eight o'clock, he arrived, exhausted
with fatigue, within half a mile of Manaos. The distance between there
and the town he traversed in a few minutes. A kind of irresistible
presentiment urged him on, and he had almost come to believe that Joam
Dacosta's safety rested in his hands.

Suddenly Fragoso stopped as if his feet had become rooted in the ground.
He had reached the entrance to a small square, on which opened one of
the town gates.

There, in the midst of a dense crowd, arose the gallows, towering up
some twenty feet, and from it there hung the rope!

Fragoso felt his consciousness abandon him. He fell; his eyes
involuntarily closed. He did not wish to look, and these words escaped
his lips: "Too late! too late!" But by a superhuman effort he raised
himself up. No; it was _not_ too late, the corpse of Joam Dacosta was
_not_ hanging at the end of the rope!

"Judge Jarriquez! Judge Jarriquez!" shouted Fragoso, and panting and
bewildered he rushed toward the city gate, dashed up the principal
street of Manaos, and fell half-dead on the threshold of the judge's
house. The door was shut. Fragoso had still strength enough left to
knock at it.

One of the magistrate's servants came to open it; his master would see
no one.

In spite of this denial, Fragoso pushed back the man who guarded the
entrance, and with a bound threw himself into the judge's study.

"I come from the province where Torres pursued his calling as captain of
the woods!" he gasped. "Mr. Judge, Torres told the truth. Stop--stop the
execution?"

"You found the gang?"

"Yes."

"And you have brought me the cipher of the document?"

Fragoso did not reply.

"Come, leave me alone! leave me alone!" shouted Jarriquez, and, a prey
to an outburst of rage, he grasped the document to tear it to atoms.

Fragoso seized his hands and stopped him. "The truth is there!" he said.

"I know," answered Jarriquez; "but it is a truth which will never see
the light!"

"It will appear--it must! it must!"

"Once more, have you the cipher?"

"No," replied Fragoso; "but, I repeat, Torres has not lied. One of his
companions, with whom he was very intimate, died a few months ago, and
there can be no doubt but that this man gave him the document he came to
sell to Joam Dacosta."

"No," answered Jarriquez--"no, there is no doubt about it--as far as
we are concerned; but that is not enough for those who dispose of the
doomed man's life. Leave me!"

Fragoso, repulsed, would not quit the spot. Again he threw himself at
the judge's feet. "Joam Dacosta is innocent!" he cried; "you will not
leave him to die? It was not he who committed the crime of Tijuco; it
was the comrade of Torres, the author of that document! It was Ortega!"

As he uttered the name the judge bounded backward. A kind of calm
swiftly succeeded to the tempest which raged within him. He dropped the
document from his clenched hand, smoothed it out on the table, sat down,
and, passing his hand over his eyes--"That name?" he said--"Ortega? Let
us see," and then he proceeded with the new name brought back by Fragoso
as he had done with the other names so vainly tried by himself.

After placing it above the first six letters of the paragraph he
obtained the following formula:

                             O r t e g a
                            _P h y j s l_

"Nothing!" he said. "That give us--nothing!"

And in fact the _h_ placed under the _r_ could not be expressed by a
cipher, for, in alphabetical order, this letter occupies an earlier
position to that of the _r._

The _p,_ the _y,_ the _j,_ arranged beneath the letters _o, t, e,_
disclosed the cipher 1, 4, 5, but as for the _s_ and the _l_ at the end
of the word, the interval which separated them from the _g_ and the _a_
was a dozen letters, and hence impossible to express by a single cipher,
so that they corresponded to neither _g_ nor _a_.

And here appalling shouts arose in the streets; they were the cries of
despair.

Fragoso jumped to one of the windows, and opened it before the judge
could hinder him.

The people filled the road. The hour had come at which the doomed man
was to start from the prison, and the crowd was flowing back to the spot
where the gallows had been erected.

Judge Jarriquez, quite frightful to look upon, devoured the lines of the
document with a fixed stare.

"The last letters!" he muttered. "Let us try once more the last
letters!"

It was the last hope.

And then, with a hand whose agitation nearly prevented him from writing
at all, he placed the name of Ortega over the six last letters of the
paragraph, as he had done over the first.

An exclamation immediately escaped him. He saw, at first glance, that
the six last letters were inferior in alphabetical order to those which
composed Ortega's name, and that consequently they might yield the
number.

And when he reduced the formula, reckoning each later letter from the
earlier letter of the word, he obtained.

                             O r t e g a
                             4 3 2 5 1 3
                            _S u v j h d_

The number thus disclosed was 432513.

But was this number that which had been used in the document? Was it not
as erroneous as those he had previously tried?

At this moment the shouts below redoubled--shouts of pity which betrayed
the sympathy of the excited crowd. A few minutes more were all that the
doomed man had to live!

Fragoso, maddened with grief, darted from the room! He wished to see,
for the last time, his benefactor who was on the road to death! He
longed to throw himself before the mournful procession and stop it,
shouting, "Do not kill this just man! do not kill him!"

But already Judge Jarriquez had placed the given number above the first
letters of the paragraph, repeating them as often as was necessary, as
follows:

           4 3 2 5 1 3 4 3 2 5 1 3 4 3 2 5 1 3 4 3 2 5 1 3
          _P h y j s l y d d q f d z x g a s g z z q q e h_

And then, reckoning the true letters according to their alphabetical
order, he read:

                  "Le véritable auteur du vol de----"

A yell of delight escaped him! This number, 432513, was the number
sought for so long! The name of Ortega had enabled him to discover it!
At length he held the key of the document, which would incontestably
prove the innocence of Joam Dacosta, and without reading any more he
flew from his study into the street, shouting:

"Halt! Halt!"

To cleave the crowd, which opened as he ran, to dash to the prison,
whence the convict was coming at the last moment, with his wife and
children clinging to him with the violence of despair, was but the work
of a minute for Judge Jarriquez.

Stopping before Joam Dacosta, he could not speak for a second, and then
these words escaped his lips:

"Innocent! Innocent!"


CHAPTER XIX. THE CRIME OF TIJUCO

ON THE ARRIVAL of the judge the mournful procession halted. A roaring
echo had repeated after him and again repeated the cry which escaped
from every mouth:

"Innocent! Innocent!"

Then complete silence fell on all. The people did not want to lose one
syllable of what was about to be proclaimed.

Judge Jarriquez sat down on a stone seat, and then, while Minha, Benito,
Manoel, and Fragoso stood round him, while Joam Dacosta clasped Yaquita
to his heart, he first unraveled the last paragraph of the document by
means of the number, and as the words appeared by the institution of the
true letters for the cryptological ones, he divided and punctuated them,
and then read it out in a loud voice. And this is what he read in the
midst of profound silence:

_Le véritable auteur du vol des diamants et de_ 43 251343251 343251 34
325 134 32513432 51 34 _Ph yjslyddf dzxgas gz zqq ehx gkfndrxu ju gi
l'assassinat des soldats qui escortaient le convoi,_ 32513432513
432 5134325 134 32513432513 43 251343 _ocytdxvksbx bhu ypohdvy rym
huhpuydkjox ph etozsl

commis dans la nuit du vingt-deux janvier mil_ 251343 2513 43 2513 43
251343251 3432513 432 _etnpmv ffov pd pajx hy ynojyggay meqynfu q1n

huit-cent vingt-six, n'est donc pas Joam Dacosta,_ 5134 3251 3425 134
3251 3432 513 4325 1343251 _mvly fgsu zmqiz tlb qgyu gsqe uvb nrcc
edgruzb

injustement condamné à mort, c'est moi, les misérable_ 34325134325
13432513 4 3251 3432 513 43 251343251 _l4msyuhqpz drrgcroh e pqxu fivv
rpl ph onthvddqf

employé de l'administration du district diamantin,_ 3432513 43
251343251343251 34 32513432 513432513 _hqsntzh hh nfepmqkyuuexkto gz
gkyuumfv ijdqdpzjq

out, moi seul, qui signe de mon vrai nom, Ortega._ 432 513 4325 134
32513 43 251 3432 513 432513 _syk rpl xhxq rym vkloh hh oto zvdk spp
suvjhd._

"The real author of the robbery of the diamonds and of the murder of
the soldiers who escorted the convoy, committed during the night of the
twenty-second of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six,
was thus not Joam Dacosta, unjustly condemned to death; it was I, the
wretched servant of the Administration of the diamond district; yes, I
alone, who sign this with my true name, Ortega."

The reading of this had hardly finished when the air was rent with
prolonged hurrahs.

What could be more conclusive than this last paragraph, which summarized
the whole of the document, and proclaimed so absolutely the innocence of
the fazender of Iquitos, and which snatched from the gallows this victim
of a frightful judicial mistake!

Joam Dacosta, surrounded by his wife, his children, and his friends,
was unable to shake the hands which were held out to him. Such was the
strength of his character that a reaction occurred, tears of joy escaped
from his eyes, and at the same instant his heart was lifted up to that
Providence which had come to save him so miraculously at the moment he
was about to offer the last expiation to that God who would not permit
the accomplishment of that greatest of crimes, the death of an innocent
man!

Yes! There could be no doubt as to the vindication of Joam Dacosta. The
true author of the crime of Tijuco confessed of his own free will, and
described the circumstances under which it had been perpetrated!

By means of the number Judge Jarriquez interpreted the whole of the
cryptogram.

And this was what Ortega confessed.

He had been the colleague of Joam Dacosta, employed, like him, at
Tijuco, in the offices of the governor of the diamond arrayal. He had
been the official appointed to accompany the convoy to Rio de Janeiro,
and, far from recoiling at the horrible idea of enriching himself by
means of murder and robbery, he had informed the smugglers of the very
day the convoy was to leave Tijuco.

During the attack of the scoundrels, who awaited the convoy just beyond
Villa Rica, he pretended to defend himself with the soldiers of the
escort, and then, falling among the dead, he was carried away by his
accomplices. Hence it was that the solitary soldier who survived the
massacre had reported that Ortega had perished in the struggle.

But the robbery did not profit the guilty man in the long run, for,
a little time afterward, he was robbed by those whom he had helped to
commit the crime.

Penniless, and unable to enter Tijuco again, Ortega fled away to the
provinces in the north of Brazil, to those districts of the Upper Amazon
where the _capitaes da mato_ are to be found. He had to live somehow,
and so he joined this not very honorable company; they neither asked
him who he was nor whence he came, and so Ortega became a captain of the
woods, and for many years he followed the trade of a chaser of men.

During this time Torres, the adventurer, himself in absolute want,
became his companion. Ortega and he became most intimate. But, as he had
told Torres, remorse began gradually to trouble the scoundrel's life.
The remembrance of his crime became horrible to him. He knew that
another had been condemned in his place! He knew subsequently that the
innocent man had escaped from the last penalty, but that he would never
be free from the shadow of the capital sentence! And then, during an
expedition of his party for several months beyond the Peruvian frontier,
chance caused Ortega to visit the neighborhood of Iquitos, and there in
Joam Garral, who did not recognize him, he recognized Joam Dacosta.

Henceforth he resolved to make all the reparation he could for the
injustice of which his old comrade had been the victim. He committed to
the document all the facts relative to the crime of Tijuco, writing it
first in French, which had been his mother's native tongue, and then
putting it into the mysterious form we know, his intention being to
transmit it to the fazender of Iquitos, with the cipher by which it
could be read.

Death prevented his completing his work of reparation. Mortally wounded
in a scuffle with some negroes on the Madeira, Ortega felt he was
doomed. His comrade Torres was then with him. He thought he could
intrust to his friend the secret which had so grievously darkened his
life. He gave him the document, and made him swear to convey it to Joam
Dacosta, whose name and address he gave him, and with his last breath
he whispered the number 432513, without which the document would remain
undecipherable.

Ortega dead, we know how the unworthy Torres acquitted himself of his
mission, how he resolved to turn to his own profit the secret of which
he was the possessor, and how he tried to make it the subject of an
odious bargain.

Torres died without accomplishing his work, and carried his secret with
him. But the name of Ortega, brought back by Fragoso, and which was
the signature of the document, had afforded the means of unraveling the
cryptogram, thanks to the sagacity of Judge Jarriquez. Yes, the material
proof sought after for so long was the incontestable witness of the
innocence of Joam Dacosta, returned to life, restored to honor.

The cheers redoubled when the worthy magistrate, in a loud voice,
and for the edification of all, read from the document this terrible
history.

And from that moment Judge Jarriquez, who possessed this indubitable
proof, arranged with the chief of the police, and declined to allow Joam
Dacosta, while waiting new instructions from Rio Janeiro, to stay in any
prison but his own house.

There could be no difficulty about this, and in the center of the crowd
of the entire population of Manaos, Joam Dacosta, accompanied by all his
family, beheld himself conducted like a conquerer to the magistrate's
residence.

And in that minute the honest fazender of Iquitos was well repaid for
all that he had suffered during the long years of exile, and if he was
happy for his family's sake more than for his own, he was none the less
proud for his country's sake that this supreme injustice had not been
consummated!

And in all this what had become of Fragoso?

Well, the good-hearted fellow was covered with caresses! Benito, Manoel,
and Minha had overwhelmed him, and Lina had by no means spared him. He
did not know what to do, he defended himself as best he could. He did
not deserve anything like it. Chance alone had done it. Were any thanks
due to him for having recognized Torres as a captain of the woods? No,
certainly not. As to his idea of hurrying off in search of the band to
which Torres had belonged, he did not think it had been worth much, and
as to the name of Ortega, he did not even know its value.

Gallant Fragoso! Whether he wished it or no, he had none the less saved
Joam Dacosta!

And herein what a strange succession of different events all tending to
the same end. The deliverance of Fragoso at the time when he was dying
of exhaustion in the forest of Iquitos; the hospitable reception he
had met with at the fazenda, the meeting with Torres on the Brazilian
frontier, his embarkation on the jangada; and lastly, the fact that
Fragoso had seen him somewhere before.

"Well, yes!" Fragoso ended by exclaiming; "but it is not to me that all
this happiness is due, it is due to Lina!"

"To me?" replied the young mulatto.

"No doubt of it. Without the liana, without the idea of the liana, could
I ever have been the cause of so much happiness?"

So that Fragoso and Lina were praised and petted by all the family, and
by all the new friends whom so many trials had procured them at Manaos,
need hardly be insisted on.

But had not Judge Jarriquez also had his share in this rehabilitation
of an innocent man? If, in spite of all the shrewdness of his analytical
talents, he had not been able to read the document, which was absolutely
undecipherable to any one who had not got the key, had he not at any
rate discovered the system on which the cryptogram was composed?
Without him what could have been done with only the name of Ortega to
reconstitute the number which the author of the crime and Torres, both
of whom were dead, alone knew?

And so he also received abundant thanks.

Needless to say that the same day there was sent to Rio de Janeiro a
detailed report of the whole affair, and with it the original document
and the cipher to enable it to be read. New instructions from the
minister of justice had to be waited for, though there could be no doubt
that they would order the immediate discharge of the prisoner. A few
days would thus have to be passed at Manaos, and then Joam Dacosta
and his people, free from all constraint, and released from all
apprehension, would take leave of their host to go on board once more
and continue their descent of the Amazon to Para, where the voyage was
intended to terminate with the double marriage of Minha and Manoel and
Lina and Fragoso.

Four days afterward, on the fourth of September, the order of discharge
arrived. The document had been recognized as authentic. The handwriting
was really that of Ortega, who had been formerly employed in the diamond
district, and there could be no doubt that the confession of his crime,
with the minutest details that were given, had been entirely written
with his own hand.

The innocence of the convict of Villa Rica was at length admitted. The
rehabilitation of Joam Dacosta was at last officially proclaimed.

That very day Judge Jarriquez dined with the family on board the giant
raft, and when evening came he shook hands with them all. Touching were
the adieus, but an engagement was made for them to see him again on
their return at Manaos, and later on the fazenda of Iquitos.

On the morning of the morrow, the fifth of September, the signal for
departure was given. Joam Dacosta and Yaquita, with their daughter
and sons, were on the deck of the enormous raft. The jangada had its
moorings slackened off and began to move with the current, and when it
disappeared round the bend of the Rio Negro, the hurrahs of the whole
population of Manaos, who were assembled on the bank, again and again
re-echoed across the stream.


CHAPTER XX. THE LOWER AMAZON

LITTLE REMAINS to tell of the second part of the voyage down the mighty
river. It was but a series of days of joy. Joam Dacosta returned to a
new life, which shed its happiness on all who belonged to him.

The giant raft glided along with greater rapidity on the waters now
swollen by the floods. On the left they passed the small village of Don
Jose de Maturi, and on the right the mouth of that Madeira which owes
its name to the floating masses of vegetable remains and trunks denuded
of their foliage which it bears from the depths of Bolivia. They passed
the archipelago of Caniny, whose islets are veritable boxes of palms,
and before the village of Serpa, which, successively transported from
one back to the other, has definitely settled on the left of the river,
with its little houses, whose thresholds stand on the yellow carpet of
the beach.

The village of Silves, built on the left of the Amazon, and the town
of Villa Bella, which is the principal guarana market in the whole
province, were soon left behind by the giant raft. And so was the
village of Faro and its celebrated river of the Nhamundas, on which,
in 1539, Orellana asserted he was attacked by female warriors, who have
never been seen again since, and thus gave us the legend which justifies
the immortal name of the river of the Amazons.

Here it is that the province of Rio Negro terminates. The jurisdiction
of Para then commences; and on the 22d of September the family,
marveling much at a valley which has no equal in the world, entered that
portion of the Brazilian empire which has no boundary to the east except
the Atlantic.

"How magnificent!" remarked Minha, over and over again.

"How long!" murmured Manoel.

"How beautiful!" repeated Lina.

"When shall we get there?" murmured Fragoso.

And this was what might have been expected of these folks from the
different points of view, though time passed pleasantly enough with
them all the same. Benito, who was neither patient nor impatient, had
recovered all his former good humor.

Soon the jangada glided between interminable plantations of cocoa-trees
with their somber green flanked by the yellow thatch or ruddy tiles of
the roofs of the huts of the settlers on both banks from Obidos up to
the town of Monto Alegre.

Then there opened out the mouth of the Rio Trombetas, bathing with its
black waters the houses of Obidos, situated at about one hundred and
eighty miles from Belem, quite a small town, and even a _"citade"_ with
large streets bordered with handsome habitations, and a great center for
cocoa produce. Then they saw another tributary, the Tapajos, with its
greenish-gray waters descending from the south-west; and then Santarem,
a wealthy town of not less than five thousand inhabitants, Indians for
the most part, whose nearest houses were built on the vast beach of
white sand.

After its departure from Manaos the jangada did not stop anywhere as it
passed down the much less encumbered course of the Amazon. Day and night
it moved along under the vigilant care of its trusty pilot; no more
stoppages either for the gratification of the passengers or for business
purposes. Unceasingly it progressed, and the end rapidly grew nearer.

On leaving Alemquer, situated on the left bank, a new horizon appeared
in view. In place of the curtain of forests which had shut them in up to
then, our friends beheld a foreground of hills, whose undulations could
be easily descried, and beyond them the faint summits of veritable
mountains vandyked across the distant depth of sky. Neither Yaquita,
nor her daughter, nor Lina, nor old Cybele, had ever seen anything like
this.

But in this jurisdiction of Para, Manoel was at home, and he could tell
them the names of the double chain which gradually narrowed the valley
of the huge river.

"To the right," said he, "that is the Sierra de Paracuarta, which
curves in a half-circle to the south! To the left, that is the Sierra de
Curuva, of which we have already passed the first outposts."

"Then they close in?" asked Fragoso.

"They close in!" replied Manoel.

And the two young men seemed to understand each other, for the same
slight but significant nodding of the head accompanied the question and
reply.

At last, notwithstanding the tide, which since leaving Obidos had begun
to be felt, and which somewhat checked the progress of the raft, the
town of Monto Alegre was passed, then that of Pravnha de Onteiro, then
the mouth of the Xingu, frequented by Yurumas Indians, whose principal
industry consists in preparing their enemies' heads for natural history
cabinets.

To what a superb size the Amazon had now developed as already this
monarch of rivers gave signs of opening out like a sea! Plants from
eight to ten feet high clustered along the beach, and bordered it with
a forest of reeds. Porto de Mos, Boa Vista, and Gurupa, whose prosperity
is on the decline, were soon among the places left in the rear.

Then the river divided into two important branches, which flowed off
toward the Atlantic, one going away northeastward, the other eastward,
and between them appeared the beginning of the large island of Marajo.
This island is quite a province in itself. It measures no less than
a hundred and eighty leagues in circumference. Cut up by marshes and
rivers, all savannah to the east, all forest to the west, it offers most
excellent advantages for the raising of cattle, which can here be seen
in their thousands. This immense barricade of Marajo is the natural
obstacle which has compelled the Amazon to divide before precipitating
its torrents of water into the sea. Following the upper branch, the
jangada, after passing the islands of Caviana and Mexiana, would have
found an _embouchure_ of some fifty leagues across, but it would also
have met with the bar of the prororoca, that terrible eddy which, for
the three days preceding the new or full moon, takes but two minutes
instead of six hours to raise the river from twelve to fifteen feet
above ordinary high-water mark.

This is by far the most formidable of tide-races. Most fortunately the
lower branch, known as the Canal of Breves, which is the natural area of
the Para, is not subject to the visitations of this terrible phenomenon,
and its tides are of a more regular description. Araujo, the pilot,
was quite aware of this. He steered, therefore, into the midst of
magnificent forests, here and there gliding past island covered with
muritis palms; and the weather was so favorable that they did not
experience any of the storms which so frequently rage along this Breves
Canal.

A few days afterward the jangada passed the village of the same name,
which, although built on the ground flooded for many months in the
year, has become, since 1845, an important town of a hundred houses.
Throughout these districts, which are frequented by Tapuyas, the Indians
of the Lower Amazon become more and more commingled with the white
population, and promise to be completely absorbed by them.

And still the jangada continued its journey down the river. Here, at
the risk of entanglement, it grazed the branches of the mangliers,
whose roots stretched down into the waters like the claws of gigantic
crustaceans; then the smooth trunks of the paletuviers, with their
pale-green foliage, served as the resting-places for the long poles of
the crew as they kept the raft in the strength of the current.

Then came the Tocantins, whose waters, due to the different rivers
of the province of Goyaz, mingle with those of the Amazon by an
_embouchure_ of great size, then the Moju, then the town of Santa Ana.

Majestically the panorama of both banks moved along without a pause,
as though some ingenious mechanism necessitated its unrolling in the
opposite direction to that of the stream.

Already numerous vessels descending the river, ubas, egariteas,
vigilandas, pirogues of all builds, and small coasters from the lower
districts of the Amazon and the Atlantic seaboard, formed a procession
with the giant raft, and seemed like sloops beside some might
man-of-war.

At length there appeared on the left Santa Maria de Belem do Para--the
"town" as they call it in that country--with its picturesque lines of
white houses at many different levels, its convents nestled among
the palm-trees, the steeples of its cathedral and of Nostra Senora de
Merced, and the flotilla of its brigantines, brigs, and barks, which
form its commercial communications with the old world.

The hearts of the passengers of the giant raft beat high. At length they
were coming to the end of the voyage which they had thought they would
never reach. While the arrest of Joam detained them at Manaos, halfway
on their journey, could they ever have hoped to see the capital of the
province of Para?

It was in the course of this day, the 15th of October--four months and a
half after leaving the fazenda of Iquitos--that, as they rounded a sharp
bend in the river, Belem came into sight.

The arrival of the jangada had been signaled for some days. The whole
town knew the story of Joam Dacosta. They came forth to welcome him, and
to him and his people accorded a most sympathetic reception.

Hundreds of craft of all sorts conveyed them to the fazender, and soon
the jangada was invaded by all those who wished to welcome the return of
their compatriot after his long exile. Thousands of sight-seers--or
more correctly speaking, thousands of friends crowded on to the floating
village as soon as it came to its moorings, and it was vast and solid
enough to support the entire population. Among those who hurried on
board one of the first pirogues had brought Madame Valdez. Manoel's
mother was at last able to clasp to her arms the daughter whom her son
had chosen. If the good lady had not been able to come to Iquitos, was
it not as though a portion of the fazenda, with her new family, had come
down the Amazon to her?

Before evening the pilot Araujo had securely moored the raft at
the entrance of a creek behind the arsenal. That was to be its last
resting-place, its last halt, after its voyage of eight hundred leagues
on the great Brazilian artery. There the huts of the Indians, the
cottage of the negroes, the store-rooms which held the valuable cargo,
would be gradually demolished; there the principal dwelling, nestled
beneath its verdant tapestry of flowers and foliage, and the little
chapel whose humble bell was then replying to the sounding clangor from
the steeples of Belem, would each in its turn disappear.

But, ere this was done, a ceremony had to take place on the jangada--the
marriage of Manoel and Minha, the marriage of Lina and Fragoso. To
Father Passanha fell the duty of celebrating the double union which
promised so happily. In that little chapel the two couples were to
receive the nuptial benediction from his hands.

If it happened to be so small as to be only capable of holding the
members of Dacosta's family, was not the giant raft large enough to
receive all those who wished to assist at the ceremony? and if not, and
the crowd became so great, did not the ledges of the river banks afford
sufficient room for as many others of the sympathizing crowd as were
desirous of welcoming him whom so signal a reparation had made the hero
of the day?

It was on the morrow, the 16th of October, that with great pomp the
marriages were celebrated.

It was a magnificent day, and from about ten o'clock in the morning the
raft began to receive its crowd of guests. On the bank could be seen
almost the entire population of Belem in holiday costume. On the river,
vessels of all sorts crammed with visitors gathered round the enormous
mass of timber, and the waters of the Amazon literally disappeared even
up to the left bank beneath the vast flotilla.

When the chapel bell rang out its opening note it seemed like a signal
of joy to ear and eye. In an instant the churches of Belem replied to
the bell of the jangada. The vessels in the port decked themselves with
flags up to their mastheads, and the Brazilian colors were saluted by
the many other national flags. Discharges of musketry reverberated on
all sides, and it was only with difficulty that their joyous detonations
could cope with the loud hurrahs from the assembled thousands.

The Dacosta family came forth from their house and moved through the
crowd toward the little chapel. Joam was received with absolutely
frantic applause. He gave his arm to Madame Valdez; Yaquita was escorted
by the governor of Belem, who, accompanied by the friends of the young
army surgeon, had expressed a wish to honor the ceremony with
his presence. Manoel walked by the side of Minha, who looked most
fascinating in her bride's costume, and then came Fragoso, holding the
hand of Lina, who seemed quite radiant with joy. Then followed Benito,
then old Cybele and the servants of the worthy family between the double
ranks of the crew of the jangada.

Padre Passanha awaited the two couples at the entrance of the chapel.
The ceremony was very simple, and the same bands which had formerly
blessed Joam and Yaquita were again stretched forth to give the nuptial
benediction to their child.

So much happiness was not likely to be interrupted by the sorrow of
long separation. In fact, Manoel Valdez almost immediately sent in his
resignation, so as to join the family at Iquitos, where he is still
following the profession of a country doctor.

Naturally the Fragosos did not hesitate to go back with those who were
to them friends rather than masters.

Madame Valdez had no desire to separate so happy a group, but she
insisted on one thing, and that was that they should often come and see
her at Belem. Nothing could be easier. Was not the mighty river a bond
of communication between Belem and Iquitos? In a few days the first mail
steamer was to begin a regular and rapid service, and it would then only
take a week to ascend the Amazon, on which it had taken the giant raft
so many months to drift. The important commercial negotiations, ably
managed by Benito, were carried through under the best of conditions,
and soon of what had formed this jangada--that is to say, the huge raft
of timber constructed from an entire forest at Iquitos--there remained
not a trace.

A month afterward the fazender, his wife, his son, Manoel and Minha
Valdez, Lina and Fragoso, departed by one of the Amazon steamers for
the immense establishment at Iquitos of which Benito was to take the
management.

Joam Dacosta re-entered his home with his head erect, and it was indeed
a family of happy hearts which he brought back with him from beyond the
Brazilian frontier. As for Fragoso, twenty times a day was he heard to
repeat, "What! without the liana?" and he wound up by bestowing the name
on the young mulatto who, by her affection for the gallant fellow, fully
justified its appropriateness. "If it were not for the one letter," he
said, "would not Lina and Liana be the same?"