Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Suzanne Lybarger and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


DEW DROPS


VOL. 37. No. 9. WEEKLY.


DAVID C. COOK PUBLISHING CO., ELGIN, ILLINOIS.

GEORGE E. COOK, EDITOR.

MARCH 1, 1914.


How Lilian Helped Her Brother

By JULIA H. JOHNSTON


"May we go, mamma? Oh, do say yes. Please say yes."

Lilian and her brother Earl were invited to a children's lawn party,
and, as they were not different from most other children, they were very
anxious to attend.

"Lilian may go, but I am afraid to trust Earl," said mamma. "There will
certainly be ice cream and berries, cake and lemonade, and you know what
the doctor said, Earl. You think you are well, but you are not strong
after your illness and you are not to eat or drink anything ice-cold for
some time to come."

"But I needn't eat things because they are there," said Earl, "and I
promise you, mamma, that I won't."

"I'm sure he won't." Lilian added. "I don't care to go unless Earl can,
and I'll promise for him, too, that he'll be good."

"That means that you will be his security," said mamma, smiling. "You
will be a surety for him, as they call it, and give your own pledge that
Earl will do his duty. Well, then, if you both promise, I will let you
go. You must learn to do right, even if there is temptation to do
wrong."

So the loving brother and sister, who wished to go together, as brothers
and sisters should, went merrily off at the appointed time, and enjoyed
themselves with their playmates upon the lovely lawn.

As they went in together, Lilian said, "Now, remember, Earl, that when
we have things to eat, you must not take ice cream and lemonade."

"I'll remember," said Earl, and then, as it was a large party, the two
were soon separated. Lilian trusted her brother so fully that she did
not think it needful to speak to him again, and when refreshments were
served, she did not think of looking for him. As it happened, they were
far apart.

Earl was very warm. His mother had told him to be careful about playing
too hard, but when interested in a game, the boy did not realize how
fast and far he ran. When the tempting ice cream, with berries, cake and
lemonade were passed, he allowed himself to be helped with the rest,
thinking only how hot he was and how good the cold things would taste.
He had eaten half his cream and half emptied his glass before he really
thought of his promise. Then he stopped suddenly, feeling sorry and
distressed.

[Illustration: The ice cream and lemonade prove too big a temptation.]

"But what could I do?" he reasoned. "It would not be polite to ask for
just berries alone."

This was Earl's second mistake. The first was forgetting his promise,
the second in thinking true obedience could ever be impolite.

"I might as well finish now, for if it's going to hurt me it has
already, and the rest won't do any more harm."

Mistake number three. Why should any wrongdoing be finished? Suppose a
driver should say about a horse, "He has a pretty big load now and so I
might as well pile on as much more as I can," would it be no worse for
the horse? Earl was entirely wrong.

Of course he suffered for it. The doctor had to be sent for in the
night, and the next day, though better, he was ill and weak, and had to
stay in bed--something no boy was ever known to enjoy.

He had hoped that the simple remedies mamma gave him as soon as he
confessed what he had done, and began to feel ill, would undo the
mischief, but they did not. Earl had to bear the full consequences of
his broken promise.

"Dear Earl, I am so sorry you are sick," cried Lilian, when she came in
to see him the next morning.

Kneeling by the bed she put one arm under his aching head and threw the
other over his shoulder, while Earl put one arm lovingly about his
sister.

"I'm sorry, too," he said, "but really, Lilian, I'm sorrier that I did
wrong. Mamma is so sorry she trusted me, and she says maybe she ought
not to have let me go into temptation. She said that when we both
promised she felt sure, and so let us go. Isn't it mean not to keep a
promise when you're trusted?"

"I was mean not to help you keep yours, when I promised to," Lilian
said, not wishing to scold Earl when he was ill in bed. "Mamma says,"
she went on, "that when I went security for you it meant that I must
help you to keep your word as well as to say that I felt sure you would,
so I didn't do my part as I should, you see."

"You told me to remember," said Earl.

"But not at the right time," said wise Lilian. "I ought to have looked
to see if you remembered, when the time came. If I go your security
after this, and promise that you'll not forget, I'll watch and tell you
at the time."

"Do," said Earl. "You can think of things easier," which was true,
Lilian being older and more thoughtful.

So the sister promised to make it as sure as she could that her brother
would keep his promises after this. True, she sometimes forgot, herself,
and Earl was not always willing to do right, even when reminded, but
both were in earnest, and Lilian grew to be more and more of a help,
feeling the responsibility of being her brother's security. Who will
follow her example?


REAL FUN.


When Roy saw that Uncle Henry was in the shop getting the troughs and
pails ready for the spring sap running, he made up his mind to ask if he
couldn't go to the maple orchard with the men. He had heard them tell so
much about the happy days among the big maples that he had wanted to go
for a long while, and it seemed to Roy that he must be large enough this
year to take his turn at the sap gathering. He asked Uncle Henry about
it first.

"Can't I go to the sugar camp this year?"

Uncle Henry looked up from the buckets he was counting.

"Maybe you can! I'm ready enough to take you along for a week. But I
want to tell you right here how it isn't all fun up there in the sugar
camp. You hear us talking about the best side of those days, and we
don't say anything about the backaches and such as that!"

Roy was a little surprised to hear Uncle Henry speak like that, but he
was too brave to change his mind about going.

"There must be a lot of fun," he said, "and it's manly to do hard
things."

Uncle Henry nodded.

"So 'tis! That's more real fun than playing at easy ones! If your folks
are willing, get ready to start for the sugaring with me to-morrow
morning. The yoke your father used when he was a boy is hanging up in
the shop, and I guess your shoulders have grown broad enough to hold it
on!" laughed Uncle Henry.

The very next morning they started for the sugar camp far up on the side
of the mountain, and long before noontime they had built a fire in the
log shack, and Roy was out in the woods helping Uncle Henry tap the
maple trees.

Every minute after that was a busy one. The nights were crisp with
frost, and the days were full of spring sunshine. For hours and hours
each day Roy trudged through the snow wearing on his shoulders the yoke
which had a pail hanging from either end, and after each trip into the
woods he would turn two brimming pails of sap into the big kettle
boiling over the fire.

[Illustration: After each trip into the woods Roy would turn two
brimming pails of sap into the big kettle.]

Sometimes his legs ached, and he got tired tramping through the snow,
and one pair of mittens grew quite useless for the holes worn in them.
But he did not give up one bit of his share of the work.

For a whole week the sap ran freely, and then came the time for Roy to
leave the men and go home.

"I'm going to miss you a whole lot!" declared Uncle Henry.

Roy laughed happily. He was going down the mountain on the ox team which
was piled high with barrels of rich brown syrup.

"I'd like to stay!" he said. "I've learned about what you said before I
came: that it's more real fun doing hard things than 'tis to play at
easy ones!"

--_Written for Dew Drops by Ruby Holmes Martyn._


NEIGHBORS.


Bobby made the snow man. He had made snow men in the country, and he
knew how. He always made them by the gate, next to the big syringa bush.
He used to cut a stick from a tree for the snow man to hold, and he
generally placed a long chicken feather in its cap.

But in a city yard that was not even all your own yard, it was
different. Recently Bobby's father had come into town to live.

In the same street lived Joey Rodman, who was about Bobby's age. The
afternoon that Bobby made the snow man Joey kept throwing stones. Bobby
tried not to mind. There was lots of snow in the yard, and he made the
snow man unusually large. The other children helped him, but Joey kept
calling out and throwing things, and at last he knocked off the head of
the snow man just as Bobby had put in two bits of coal for the eyes.

Bobby could not stand that. He ran after Joey, and Joey dodged and
began to call him names. Joey's sister, Sadie, who cared for the six
children, heard the noise in the yard below.

"Do you think it's your yard?" she called out to Bobby. "It is just as
much Joey's yard as it is yours!"

Then Bobby's mother opened her window. "Come in, Bobby!" she said; and
when Bobby left the snow man and climbed upstairs, she said, "Son, we
mustn't quarrel with our neighbors, you know."

"But Joey threw stones--"

"Never mind," said mother. "We won't talk about that. Perhaps we'll get
to be friends with Joey after a while. And you remember about coals of
fire."

That was mother's rule. Bobby knew that text about coals of fire so
well!

"But I don't see how you could ever make coals of fire out of a snow
man, mother!" he said. And then mother laughed, and he laughed, too.

After a while, Joey and the other children ran out into the street to
play. Bobby went down and finished the snow man with no one to trouble
him. He put on the head again, and placed an old broom under its arm. He
put it in very tight, so that no one could take it out easily.

Joey's sister, Sadie, was bringing things out to the roof of the
two-story extension. It was a tin roof, and sloped a bit. Suddenly her
foot slipped, and she lost her balance. She clutched at a clothesline,
but it snapped. Down she came, and Bobby stood speechless with fright.

But the snow man--the heroic snow man--was there to save her. Standing
firm and erect, he received the shock of Sadie's fall. It was too much
for his head. He lost that first, and then, as he went all to pieces, he
made a pillow for Sadie. Bobby ran forward.

"Oh, oh, I never will say a word against that boy!" she said, sitting up
in the snow. "His snow man has saved me!" Bobby's mother came running
downstairs and out into the yard.

"You poor child!" she said. "But I don't believe there's a bone broken.
Come right in and I'll give you a cup of hot tea."

Sadie came, and Bobby followed. Behind him came Joey, and the two boys
lingered round while the tea was made. Sadie drank it, and smiled at
Bobby's mother.

"We're neighbors. I always like my neighbors, and I want to help them if
I can," said Bobby's mother.

"Well, you can count me as a neighbor who likes you," said Sadie. "Come
along, Joey--and mind you behave to Bobby like a good neighbor, too."

Bobby climbed into his mother's lap after they had gone upstairs. "Coals
of snow are all right," he whispered in her ear.

--_Selected._


     "The thing that goes the farthest
       Toward making life worth while,
     That costs the least and does the most,
       Is just a pleasant smile."


O SANNA SAN.


O Sanna San was a little Japanese girl whose home was among the
mountains of North Japan. Now because Japan is called the Flowery
Kingdom we are apt to think of it as a country where the sun always
shines and flowers are always in blossom. But in the northern part,
where O Sanna San lived, they have winter, and cold, and in January and
February the snow is three and four feet deep; the rivers and canals are
frozen over, the people wear wadded clothes, and many of them go about
on snowshoes.

But O Sanna San would not go about, for she had fallen and hurt her back
so badly that she could not walk at all. Her father and mother were
Christians, and one day when a missionary came to their house he told
them about the hospital in the city, some thirty miles away, and that if
they would take O Sanna San there she might be cured.

So it was that as O Sanna San looked out one snowy morning she saw her
father coming over the snow with a sleigh, which was like a little house
on runners, with a roof, a window and a door. Her mother told her it was
to take her to the hospital to see if she could be made well again.

Then they wrapped O Sanna San warm, and laid her in the sleigh, and her
father put the ropes from the runners over his shoulders, took the pole
in his hand, and away they went. In many places in Japan when one
travels one must be either pulled or pushed by a man.

[Illustration: O Sanna San's father takes her to the hospital.]

All day he drew her over the snow, till they came to the city and
hospital. Forlorn enough O Sanna San felt when her father left her among
strangers, kind though they were. And when they laid her on one of the
hospital beds she was dreadfully frightened, because she had never even
seen a bed before, but had always slept on a mat on the floor, and she
did not dare to move for fear she would fall off.

The days that came after were still worse, for the doctor put her in a
plaster cast, so she had to lie straight and stiff like a wooden doll,
and she was so homesick she could hardly speak, and her big black eyes
were full of tears most of the time. But one day a little girl came down
between the white beds and stopped at hers. O Sanna San had never seen
anyone like her before; for her eyes were blue, her hair yellow, and her
skin was not brown, but pink and white.

"I am Frances," she said, "my papa is the doctor. He told me about you,
so I have brought you my doll and a picture book."

"I shall love the doll," said O Sanna San, "but I cannot read, there is
no school in our village."

"Never mind," Frances smiled, "I am coming to see you every day, and I
will teach you to read. My papa says you will soon be able to walk
again, then you shall go with me to the Plum Blossom school for girls."

O Sanna San's eyes were shining. "Oh, I shall not be homesick any more."

--_Written for Dew Drops by Adele E. Thompson._


SAM'S LITTLE DOG.


"Mother," cried Sam, raising his tousled head up from his no less
tousled pillow, "I had the funniest dream you ever heard."

"Well," said mother, drawing the comb through her long brown hair, "I'll
give you just five minutes to tell it in; then you must jump up quickly
and run over to the bathroom."

"It seems to me I was dreaming it all night," said Sam, "but I believe I
can tell it in less than five minutes: I thought I was going along, and
a little black dog was following me. As long as I kept walking on
straight ahead he trotted on behind me like a lamb, but every time I got
out of the path, and tried to cross the fields, he barked and snapped at
me till I came back to the path.

"I got tired staying in the path, so I dashed out on one side presently,
but the doggie barked so furiously that I got scared and climbed a
little tree. Just as I got to the top, the tree broke off at the roots
and 'down came Sammy, tree top and all.' The fall woke me, and I found I
had rolled out of bed. Wasn't that a funny dream?"

"Sam," said his mother, who had been much interested in his dream,
"don't you wish you had a little dog to go around with you and bark when
you went out of the right way?"

"I don't know, mother," answered Sam, doubtfully; "maybe I don't."

"I hoped you would say you did," said mother, looking disappointed, "and
I was going to tell you that conscience was that very little dog, and if
you tried to get away from conscience's barks, either up a tree or
elsewhere, you would certainly fall and come to grief. Time's up, little
boy; hie off to the bathroom."

--_Selected._


+---------------+
|               |
| Knowledge Box |
|               |
+---------------+

How Eskimo Dogs Sleep on a Journey


You have heard a great deal, very likely, about Eskimo dogs that haul
the sledges over the snow in Alaska. Have you ever heard what becomes of
them at night, when the traveler must stop in a snowstorm? Would you
like to hear?

When the traveler with his guides must stop, the sledge is turned up,
and the men get into their fur sleeping-bags, and lie down under such
protection as it offers, if there is nothing better. But the dogs are
all turned loose. You would think that there was danger of not finding
them in the morning, but there is no danger of that at all. When it is
time to get up next day, the guides look around, and see as many snow
mounds as there are dogs in the train, and in each mound where a dog has
burrowed, and let the snow cover him, is a hole made by his breath. It
is very easy to find the dogs by these holes, and they never go far from
the sledge.

--_Written for Dew Drops by Julia H. Johnston._


JUDY'S REVENGE

By Dorothy Hartley

[Illustration]


It was very evident that Judy was in trouble. There she stood in the
middle of the yard, her tiny brows drawn together in a pucker, one
finger resting between her rosy lips in a way that would have been
irresistibly lovely if the lips had been smiling instead of pouting, her
eyes cast down on the ground at her feet.

"I sha'n't! I sha'n't!" she kept saying every now and again, with a
shake of her short, sturdy self.

"Judiet, come here!" called her mother from the kitchen, where she was
making a pie for dinner. "Why, what's the matter, child?" she added, as
she saw the very evident traces of displeasure on her little daughter's
face.

"It's Tom, and I'll never forgive him!" she cried.

"Hush! hush! you mustn't say that, Judy. What has Tom been doing?"

"He's gone off playing, and he wouldn't let me go with him, and Daisy's
gone with her brother."

"But perhaps Tom has gone some place where it would be too far for you
to walk," said Mrs. Tewsbury, as she sliced the apples into the dish.

"He's only gone to watch the boys fly their kites, and he said I should
stay home and play with my dolls. But I sha'n't!"

"Well, Judy, I want you to go to the store for me, and then, when you
come back, we'll talk about Tom. There, run along now. Get the basket
and bring me two pounds of sugar."

Judy started on her errand, her little heart very sore against the
brother who rarely found time to make things pleasant for his sister.
Tom always had something he wanted to do when Judy asked him to help
her. He had felt a little prick as he went off that morning, when he
remembered that George Brown had promised to take his sister with him to
the top of the hill. "Oh, Judy couldn't walk so far!" he tried to
comfort himself by saying. "I'll take her to some other place another
day." But Master Tom knew he was making a promise to himself that he was
not likely to keep.

And so Judy went to the store, and by the time she returned home she did
not feel quite so angry with Tom. Perhaps her mother hoped this would be
the case when she sent her little daughter. It is always well to wait
and think when one feels angry, before saying things that afterward one
will be sorry for having spoken.

"Judy, I've been thinking," said Mrs. Tewsbury, as the girl entered the
kitchen, "that we'll teach Tom a lesson. Shall we?"

"What kind of a lesson, mamma?" asked Judy.

"A good lesson, of course. Now, when he comes home he'll expect to find
you cross, and perhaps sulky with him. Suppose, instead, he finds you
smiling and with a nice little apple turnover that you have made for
him; what do you suppose he will think? Why, that you are too good a
girl to be treated so badly; and, perhaps, too, if he sees you smiling
and loving, he will realize how much better it is to be that way than
selfish as he has been."

"Oh, mamma!" And now there were no frowns on Judy's rosy, dimpled face;
nothing but smiles. To make a turnover was a delightful treat in itself.
But to help Tom to be a nice boy was more of a satisfaction. So the
little girl started to work, and under her mother's tuition soon had a
very wonderful-looking turnover made and baked.

[Illustration: The frowns had all left.]

"I'd most like to put salt in instead of sugar, just to pay Tom up,"
Judy thought to herself; and then a better feeling came to her and she
added: "Oh, no. I wouldn't, 'cause that wouldn't be right. I want Tom to
think I'm as nice as Daisy's brother thinks she is."

Master Tom came home whistling shortly after the dainty had been removed
from the oven. He thought Judy would be waiting for him with angry
words. So she was waiting for him, but with a beautiful smile, a rosy
face, and on a plate in her hand what seemed to Tom a very delicious
tit-bit.

"I made it--made it for you, all by myself. Mamma said I could."

"Oh, Judy! And I wouldn't take you with me!" exclaimed Tom regretfully.

"But you will next time, if I'm good; won't you, Tom?" said Judy,
coaxingly.

"As true as my name's Tom Tewsbury. I say, Judy, it was good of you to
make this for me, when I don't deserve it, but I won't forget it of
you."

And Judy felt well paid for her turnover.


HELPFUL AND HAPPY.


     "I am so little!" sighed Helen,
       "Tell me, dear mamma, the way,
     How to make somebody happy;
       How to be helpful each day."

     Mamma replied: "To be helpful,
       Be of a sweet, willing mood;
     And, to make somebody happy.
       Little girls need to be good."

_Written for Dew Drops by Eugene C. Dolson._


OUR LESSON.--For March 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREPARED BY MARGUERITE COOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

Title.--Trusting in Riches and Trusting in God.--Luke 12: 13-34.

Golden Text.--Where your treasure is, there will your heart be
also.--Luke 12: 34.

_Beginners Golden Text._--_He careth for you._--1 Peter 5:7.

Truth.--The wise lay up for themselves treasures in heaven.

1. Jesus wished to show the people the danger of caring too much for
money or the things of this life, so he told them this parable or story.

[Illustration]

2. He said the ground of a certain rich man brought forth very large
harvests.

[Illustration]

3. The man had so many good things he did not know where to put them.

4. He did not share with his poorer neighbors.

5. He forgot that God gave him all his good things.

6. He made up his mind to keep all he had for himself.

7. He said he would pull down his barns and build larger ones.

[Illustration]

8. He planned to store his wealth in these larger barns, and having
nothing else to do would eat, drink, and be merry.

[Illustration]

9. He was a foolish, selfish man, and his plans were all spoiled.

10. That night God called for his soul, and he had to leave all his
wealth.

11. He was very poor in God's sight, for his wealth was not of the kind
that he could take beyond the grave.

12. It is foolish for us to love money too much, for if we do, we may
neglect our souls while we are trying to get more of it.

13. Our souls are worth more than the whole world.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTIONS.

What is the Golden Text?

What is the Truth?

1. What did Jesus wish to show the people?

2. What did he say about the rich man's ground?

3. About what was the rich man troubled?

4. What did he fail to do?

5. What did he forget?

6. What did he make up his mind to do?

7. What did he say he would build?

8. What kind of a life did he plan to lead?

9. What became of his plans?

10. What happened that very night?

11. In whose sight was he poor?

12. Why is it foolish for us to love money very much?

13. How much are our souls worth?

       *       *       *       *       *

LESSON HYMN.

_Tune_--"Jesus loves me, this I know," omitting chorus (E flat).

     Jesus, help us all to see
     That it's better far to be
     Rich in all that's good and kind,
     Than to worldly riches find.

       *       *       *       *       *

Title of Lesson for March 8.

Watchfulness (Temperance Lesson).--Luke 12:35-48.

       *       *       *       *       *

Golden Text for March 8.

Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find
watching.--Luke 12:37.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beginners Golden Text for March 8.

_Even a child maketh himself known by his doings._--Prov. 20:11.


+----------------------+
|                      |
| Thoughts for Mothers |
|                      |
+----------------------+

Teach Politeness.


Mothers, do you ever impress upon your children the fact that they ought
to show true politeness to everyone? Do not let them show rudeness at
home, and then expect them to be polite in company. Politeness is not
inborn, it has to be cultivated. It is a singular fact that parents
allow their children to treat their brothers and sisters with little or
no respect; this is one great cause of inharmony in many homes. Some
parents think that to have their children pay too much attention to the
rules of politeness, is apt to make them too formal. Better a little
formality than actual rudeness.

If there is any place in the world where true politeness and
consideration should be shown, it is at home, and a parent cannot begin
too early to teach such acts to a child. Remember that true politeness
begins in the heart: "Out of the fullness of the heart, the mouth
speaketh."

An earnest desire to "do unto others as I would that they should do unto
me," should be a child's motive power to impel to acts of kindness and
politeness. See that the heart is kept right, and your child will be
truly polite.


+--------------------------+
|                          |
| Advice to Boys and Girls |
|                          |
+--------------------------+

A Welcome Little Guest.


Eloise had been visiting at the home of her mother's girlhood friend,
and the latter said to the little girl when she was leaving: "I hope
your mother will allow you to come soon again; it has been such a
pleasure having you with us."

Eloise is just turned eight years old, and perhaps you wonder how she
made herself a welcome guest; it would doubtless seem that when so young
a girl goes visiting without her mother, she might be more of a care
than a pleasure. In the first place, Eloise was careful not to go
farther than the end of the block when she went outdoors to play; the
end of the block was as far as Mrs. Dawson could see from the
sitting-room window and, as she said she did not want Eloise out of her
sight, Eloise took pains to remain within it. When either Mr. or Mrs.
Dawson asked her to sing one of her dear little songs, she did so
willingly, though it was very hard to sing the first time before Mr.
Dawson who was a complete stranger to her. In short, whatever Eloise
could do to please her hostess, she did, and she tried to leave undone
the things she thought would not please her. Perhaps Eloise did not
think of it that way, but she just followed the Golden Rule, and it is a
very good rule to follow, either at home or when visiting, or, indeed,
at any time.

--_Written for Dew Drops by Marie Deacon Hanson._




It is good to see the way a brave, manly boy goes through the day,
shirking no duty, but doing cheerfully whatever his hand finds to do.




[Entered at the Post Office at Elgin, Ill., as Second Class Mail
Matter.]

Price of Dew Drops.--In lots of five or more, to one address, 20 cents
per copy per year, or 5-1/2 cents per copy per quarter. Address,

DAVID C. COOK PUBLISHING CO., ELGIN, ILL.