MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received last week your very kind and
_satisfactory_ letter of the 16th. Your opinion on this truly
unfortunate and, on the part of the French, disgraceful affair is a
great support to us. Stockmar has, I know, communicated to you what
has passed, and he will send you copies of the King's letter and my
answer. Our conduct has been throughout _honest_, and the King's and
Guizot's the contrary. _How_ the King _can_ wantonly throw away the
friendship of one who has stood by him with such sincere affection,
for a _doubtful_ object of personal and family aggrandizement, is to
me and to the whole country inexplicable. Have _confidence_ in _him_ I
fear I never can again, and Peel, who is here on a visit, says a
_war may_ arise any moment, _once_ that the good understanding is
disturbed; think, then, that the King has done this in his 74th
year, and leaves this inheritance to his successor; and to whom--to
a _Grandchild_, and a _Minor!_And for Nemours and Paris, _our_
friendship is of the greatest importance, and yet he prefers the
troubles of governing Spain, which will be a source of constant worry
and anxiety, to the happy understanding so happily existing between
our two countries! I cannot comprehend him. Guizot behaves shamefully,
and so totally without good faith. Our protests have been presented. I
feel more than ever the loss of our valuable Peel.

I wish, dearest Uncle, you would not go to Paris at all at present.

The Queen-Dowager and the Princess of Prussia[25] have left us this
morning after a week's stay, and I have been delighted with the
Princess. I find her so clever, so amiable, so well informed, and so
good; she seems to have some enemies, for there are whispers of
her being _false_; but from all that I have seen of her--from her
discretion, her friendship through thick and thin, and to her own
detriment, for Hélène, and for the Queen-Dowager who has known her
from her birth, I _cannot_ and will not believe it. Her position is
a very difficult one; she is too enlightened and liberal for the
Prussian Court not to have enemies; but _I believe_ that she is a
friend to us and our family, and I do believe that _I_ have a friend
in her, who may be most useful to us. I must conclude, envying your
being in Tyrol. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 25: Marie Louise Augusta, daughter of the Grand
    Duke Charles of Saxe-Weimar, subsequently Empress of Germany,
    mother of Prince Frederick William, afterwards the Emperor
    Frederick, who in 1858 married the Princess Royal.]


[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND THE THREE POWERS]


_Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston._

WINDSOR CASTLE, _1st October 1846._

The Queen wishes to express her approval of the step taken by Lord
Palmerston in urging the Three Northern Powers to join in the protest
against the Montpensier marriage on the ground of the Treaty of
Utrecht and the Declaration of Philip V. She thinks, however, that it
is necessary to do more, and wishes Lord Palmerston should send a note
to the Cabinets of the three Powers, explanatory of the whole of the
proceedings relative to the Spanish marriages, showing the attitude
taken by us from the first, and disclosing the facts which led to this
unfortunate termination. The three Powers ought to be enabled to see
the whole of the transaction if we wish them to sympathise with us.


_Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria._

_1st October 1846._

Lord John Russell saw Count Jarnac to-day, and told him that your
Majesty's displeasure had not been removed. He had in his hands a
memorandum, which is apparently word for word the letter of the King
of the French to the Queen of the Belgians.[26]

Lord John Russell observed that it was admitted that the Duke of
Montpensier was not to marry the Infanta till the Queen of Spain had
children, and that voluntary engagement had been departed from. We
might expect the same departure from the professions now made not to
interfere in the affairs of Spain.

Count Jarnac protested against this inference, and repeated that the
promise with regard to the Infanta was only conditional.

Lord John Russell expects that in consequence of the remonstrances of
England, and the attention of Europe to the question, France will be
cautious in her interference with the internal government of Spain,
and may probably not be able to direct her external policy.

M. Bresson has written a long letter to Lord Minto, defending his own
conduct.

    [Footnote 26: See Louis Philippe's long letter of the 14th of
    September, printed in the _Life of the Prince Consort_, vol.
    i. Appendix B. Queen Victoria's complete and unanswerable
    reply will be found there also.]


[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGES]


_Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians._

WINDSOR CASTLE, _6th October 1846._

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you very much for your last kind letter
from Gais of the 23rd. This unfortunate Spanish affair has gone on,
heedlessly--and our _entente wantonly_ thrown away! I mourn over it,
and feel deeply the ingratitude shown; for--without boasting--I must
say they never had a _truer_ friend than we; and one who _always_
stood by them. When Hadjy wrote that foolish _brochure_, who stood
by him through thick and thin, but we? and our friendship for the
children will ever continue, but how can we _ever_ feel at our ease
with L. P. again? Guizot's conduct is beyond _all_ belief shameful,
and so _shabbily_ dishonest. Molé and Thiers both say he cannot stand.
It is the King's birthday to-day, but I thought it better _not_
to write to him, for to say _fine words_ at _this_ moment would be
mockery. For my beloved Louise my heart bleeds; it is _so_ sad....

I must now conclude. Begging you to believe me, ever your devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA R.


_Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians._

WINDSOR CASTLE, _17th November 1846._

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I yesterday received your long and interesting
letter of the 14th. I would much rather not say anything more about
this truly unfortunate and painful Spanish business; but in justice to
myself I must make a few observations. You say that the King thinks
me _resentful_; this is extraordinary, for I have no such feeling; my
feelings were and are _deeply_ wounded at the unhandsome and secret
manner (so totally, in _letter_ and _in meaning_, contrary to an
_entente cordiale_) in which this affair was settled, and in which the
two marriages were incorporated.

What can I do?

The King and French Government never _expressed regret_ at the sudden
and _unhandsome_ manner, to say the _least_, in which they behaved to
their _best ally_ and _friend_, and _we_ really _cannot admit_ that
_they have to forgive us for duping us!_Why have they not tried to
make _some_ sort of apology? What do I do, but remain silent _for the
present_?

It is a sad affair, but _resentment_ I have none whatever, and this
accusation is a new version of the affair.

With respect to Portugal, I refute most positively the unfounded
accusations against us; we _cannot_ interfere in internal dissensions
beyond ensuring the personal safety of the King, Queen, and Royal
Family. The Constitution may be, and I believe is, an unfortunate
thing in those Southern countries; but once it is established, the
Queen must abide by it; but, unfortunately, the _coup de main_ in
sending away Palmella's Government (which would inevitably have
crumbled to pieces of itself), was both unconstitutional and unsafe,
and I fear they are in a much worse position _vis-à-vis_ of the
country than they ever were.[27]

We are all going to-morrow to Osborne for four weeks. Ever your truly
devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 27: The Duke de Palmella's Ministry was abruptly
    dismissed by the Queen of Portugal on the 10th of October, in
    consequence of their inability to raise money on loan. Civil
    war broke out, Das Antas, Loulé, Fornos, and Sà da Bandeira
    being the chief rebel leaders. The British Fleet was ordered
    to the Tagus to support the Queen against her subjects, with
    the ulterior object of restoring Constitutional Government.]


[Pageheading: ETON MONTEM]


_Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria._

DOWNING STREET, _19th November 1846._

... Lord John Russell breakfasted with Dr Hawtrey yesterday, and had
much conversation with him. He finds Dr Hawtrey strongly impressed
with the evils of Montem, and he declared himself as decidedly against
its continuance. He thinks your Majesty would please the Etonians
equally by going to the boats once a year, which he said the late King
was in the habit of doing. The Chancellor of the Exchequer,[28] who
was at Eton, wishes to see Montem abolished. Lord Morpeth would prefer
seeing it regulated. Upon the whole, Lord John Russell thinks it would
not be advisable for your Majesty to interpose your authority
against the decided opinion of Dr Hawtrey, the Provost, and the
assistants.[29]

    [Footnote 28: Mr (who a few weeks later became Sir) Charles
    Wood.]

    [Footnote 29: Montem, the triennial Eton ceremony, the chief
    part of which took place at Salt Hill (_ad montem_), near
    Slough, was abolished in 1847.]


[Pageheading: A PENINSULAR MEDAL]


_Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington._

OSBORNE, _25th November 1846._

The Queen has learned from various quarters that there still exists a
great anxiety amongst the officers and men who served under the Duke
of Wellington's orders in the Peninsula to receive and wear a medal as
a testimony that they assisted the Duke in his great undertaking. The
Queen not only thinks this wish very reasonable, considering that for
recent exploits of infinitely inferior importance such distinctions
have been granted by her, but she would feel personally a great
satisfaction in being enabled publicly to mark in this way her sense
of the great services the Duke of Wellington has rendered to his
country and to empower many a brave soldier to wear this token in
remembrance of the Duke.


[Pageheading: THE DUKE'S VIEW]


_The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria._

STRATHFIELDSAYE, _27th November 1846._

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington presents his humble duty to your
Majesty.

He has just now received your Majesty's most gracious commands from
Osborne, dated the 26th instant.

He does not doubt that many of the brave officers and soldiers who
served in the armies in the Peninsula under the command of the Duke
are anxious to receive and wear a medal, struck by command of the
Sovereign, to commemorate the services performed in that seat of the
late war.

Many of them have, upon more than one occasion, expressed such
desire, in their letters addressed to the Duke, in their petitions
to Parliament, and, as the Duke has reason to believe, in petitions
presented to your Majesty.

Although the Duke has never omitted to avail himself of every occasion
which offered to express his deep sense of the meritorious services of
the officers and soldiers of the Army which served in the Peninsula,
he did not consider it his duty to suggest to the Sovereign, under
whose auspices, or the Minister under whose direction the services in
question were performed, any particular mode in which those services
of the Army should be recognised by the State.

Neither has he considered it his duty to submit such suggestion since
the period at which the services were performed, bearing in mind the
various important considerations which must have an influence upon
the decision on such a question, which it was and is the duty of your
Majesty's confidential servants alone to take into consideration, and
to decide.

Neither can the Duke of Wellington now venture to submit to your
Majesty his sense of a comparison of the services of the Army which
served in the Peninsula, with those of other armies in other parts of
the world, whose recent services your Majesty has been most graciously
pleased to recognise by ordering that medals should be struck, to
commemorate each of such services, one of which to be delivered to
each officer and soldier present, which your Majesty was graciously
pleased to permit him to wear.

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington humbly solicits your Majesty,
in grateful submission to your Majesty upon the subject of the last
paragraph of your Majesty's most gracious letter, that, considering
the favour with which his services were received and rewarded by the
gracious Sovereign, under whose auspices they were performed; the
professional rank and the dignity in the State to which he was raised,
and the favour with which his services were then and have been ever
since received, that your Majesty would be graciously pleased to
consider upon this occasion only the well-founded claims upon your
Majesty's attention of the officers and soldiers who served in the
Army in the Peninsula; and to consider him, as he considers himself,
amply rewarded for any service which he might have been instrumental
in rendering; and desirous only of opportunities of manifesting his
gratitude for the favour and honour with which he has been treated by
his Sovereign.

All of which is humbly submitted to your Majesty by your Majesty's
most dutiful and devoted Servant and Subject,

WELLINGTON.


_Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston._

OSBORNE, _28th November 1846._

The Queen has just received Lord Palmerston's draft to Mr
Southern,[30] and must observe that she does not quite approve the
tone of it, as it will be likely only to irritate without producing
any effect. If our advice is to be taken, it must be given in a spirit
of impartiality and fairness. Lord Palmerston's despatch must give
the impression that we entirely espouse the cause of the rebels, whose
conduct is, to say the least, illegal and very reprehensible. Lord
Palmerston likewise takes the nation and the Opposition to be one and
the same thing. What we must insist upon is a return to Constitutional
Government. And what we may advise is a compromise with the
Opposition. What Ministry is to be formed ought to be left to the
Portuguese themselves. It being the 28th to-day, the Queen is afraid
the despatch went already yesterday. The Queen hopes in future that
Lord Palmerston will not put it out of her power to state her opinion
in good time.

[Footnote 30: Secretary of Legation at Lisbon, and Chargé d'Affaires
in the absence of Lord Howard de Walden.]


[Pageheading: THE PENINSULAR MEDAL]


_Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington._

ARUNDEL CASTLE, _1st December 1846._

The Queen has not yet acknowledged the Duke of Wellington's last
letter.

She fully appreciates the delicacy of the Duke in not wishing to
propose himself a step having reference to his own achievements, but
the Queen will not on that account forgo the satisfaction of granting
this medal as an acknowledgment on her part of those brilliant
achievements.

The Queen has been assured by Lord John Russell that her confidential
servants will be ready to assume the responsibility of advising such a
measure.


_The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria._

ARUNDEL CASTLE, _2nd December 1846._ (_Morning._)

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington presents his humble duty to your
Majesty. He did not receive your Majesty's commands, dated the 1st
instant, in this Castle, till seven o'clock in the afternoon; and
being under the necessity of attending at [? Dover] in the evening,
he has not had it in his power till this time to express his
acknowledgment of the receipt of them.

He submits to your Majesty that he has always been aware that it would
be impolitic to confer upon the officers and soldiers who served in
the Peninsula the wished-for distinction without the concurrence of
your Majesty's confidential servants.

They alone can give the orders to carry into execution the measure,
and can adopt means to remedy any inconvenience which may result from
it; and it is satisfactory to him to learn, from the perusal of
your Majesty's note, that Lord John Russell is disposed to adopt it,
notwithstanding that the Duke has no personal wish or feeling in the
adoption of the measure, excepting to see gratified the wishes of so
many gallant officers and brave soldiers, who have so well served.

The few words which he addressed to your Majesty in his last letter
of the 27th of November in relation to himself, referred to the
expressions in that of your Majesty of the 26th November, to the Duke;
from which it appeared to be your Majesty's intention "to empower many
a brave soldier to wear this token, in remembrance of the Duke."

Having stated to your Majesty that he would serve your Majesty, and
would promote the objects of your Majesty's Government, to the utmost
of his power, he has faithfully performed his engagement, as he
believes, to the satisfaction of your Majesty's servants.

His whole life being devoted to your Majesty's service, he is most
anxious to deserve and receive your Majesty's approbation.

But he wishes that it should be conveyed only when it may be
convenient to your Majesty's Government. Your Majesty and your
Majesty's servants must be the best judges upon this point, as well
as whether the medal in question shall be struck and granted at all or
not.

If granted, or whatever may be the mode in which granted, or whether
the Duke's name is recalled to recollection or not, the Duke will be
equally satisfied, and grateful for your Majesty's gracious favour,
and desirous to merit a continuance of it, by his devotion to your
Majesty's service.

All of which is humbly submitted by your Majesty's most dutiful
Subject and most devoted Servant,

WELLINGTON.


[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S DECISION]


_Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell._

OSBORNE, _14th December 1846._

The Queen has still to acknowledge Lord John Russell's letter of the
11th. She has carefully read the Duke of Wellington's letter to Lord
John, which evinces all the Duke's honourable feelings. He should
certainly be relieved from the appearance of having refused honours to
others, but agreed to the granting of them the moment it was intended
to couple the measure with an honour conferred upon himself. On the
other hand, the Queen still wishes the step to be taken as a means
of doing honour to the Duke. His name should, therefore, certainly be
connected with it. The introduction of the names of other commanders,
even of that of Sir John Moore, the Queen does not think advisable.
She does not quite understand from Lord John's letter whether he
proposes to adopt the Duke's recommendation to _re_-issue all the
medals formerly granted, or to adhere to the original idea of striking
a new one. In the latter case, which appears the most natural, the
word "Peninsula" would cover all the campaigns, and in these the Duke
of Wellington had by far so much the greatest share that his
name being introduced on _all_ the medals cannot be considered as
anomalous.


[Pageheading: CRACOW]


_Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston._

OSBORNE, _14th December 1846._

The Queen returns the enclosed private letters.[31] The view Lord
Palmerston takes of the affair of Cracow appears to the Queen a very
sound one, and she would much wish to see the plan of a conference
realised against which Lord Ponsonby does not bring any very relevant
reasons. Prince Metternich's plan of a declaration "that the case is
to be considered an exceptional one and not to afford a precedent to
other powers" is too absurd. The Prince very justly compared it to the
case of a person giving another a box on the ear and declaring at the
same time that he is to consider it as exceptional, and that it is in
no way to afford him a precedent for returning it. The Queen hopes the
Cabinet will well consider the question, and contrive to find means to
prevent the evil consequences of the unjustifiable step against Cracow
by speaking out in time, before Russia or France may have decided on
acts of further infraction of the Treaty of Vienna. It seems quite
clear that Russia was at the bottom of the measure relative to Cracow,
and it is therefore but reasonable to expect that she has an ulterior
object in view.

    [Footnote 31: The first ill fruits of the disruption of the
    _entente_ between England and France were seen in the active
    co-operation of Russia, Prussia, and Austria to destroy Polish
    independence. See _ante_, p. 72.]


INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XVI

During the year 1847 the Parliament which had been elected in 1841
with a great Tory majority was dissolved, and, as a result, the
position of the Whig Ministry was slightly improved; but they were
still dependent on the support of Sir Robert Peel. A Factory Act
limiting the labour of women and children to ten hours a day was
passed. An autumn session was rendered necessary by an acute financial
crisis, the Ministry having authorised the Bank of England to infringe
the provisions of the recent Bank Charter Act, and as a consequence
being compelled to ask Parliament for an indemnity. The knowledge of
the Bank's authority to issue notes beyond the prescribed limits was
of itself sufficient to allay the panic. The Church of England was
convulsed by the promotion of Dr Hampden, whom Lord Melbourne had made
Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford, to the See of Hereford; his
orthodoxy was impugned in a memorial presented by thirteen bishops to
the Prime Minister, and an unsuccessful application was made to the
Queen's Bench (the Court being divided in opinion) to compel the
Primate to hear objections to Dr Hampden's consecration. The new House
of Lords was used for the first time this year.

Perhaps the most important event in France was the cold-blooded murder
of the Duchesse de Praslin (daughter of Count Sebastiani, formerly
French Ambassador in England) by her husband, an incident which, like
the Spanish intrigue of 1846, contributed subsequently to the downfall
of the Orleanist dynasty.

Switzerland was torn by internecine strife, partly owing to the
existence, side by side, of Catholic and Protestant cantons; the
proposed expulsion of Jesuits and the formation of the "Sonderbund"
were the questions of the day. The latter was an offensive and
defensive confederation of seven cantons, and civil war raged round
the question of its legality.

In Italy the death of Pope Gregory XVI. and the election of a more
liberal successor induced Lord John Russell to send his father-in-law,
Lord Minto, the Lord Privy Seal, on a special mission to the new Pope
Pius IX., to encourage him in the path of Reform. But more violent
measures were in progress, and it was soon clear that Lombardy and
Venetia were rising against Austria, and the way being paved for the
Unity of Italy.

Spain was in a ferment, frequent changes of Ministry taking place,
and the miserable marriage of the Queen having all the evil results
anticipated in England. Portugal continued in a state of civil war,
the British attempting to mediate, but the revolutionary Junta refused
to abide by their terms, and ultimately armed intervention became
necessary.


CHAPTER XVI

1847


_Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell._

WINDSOR CASTLE, _7th January 1847._

The turn which the Portuguese affairs are now likely to take is really
very satisfactory. The Queen is sure that the Court will not allow
violent measures of revenge to be taken against the vanquished party
nor the overthrow of a Constitutional Government; but the Queen of
Portugal will have to punish those who have broken their oath of
allegiance, and will have to remove from the country those who would
infallibly ere long plunge the country afresh into those _horrors_
from which it is just emerging. The further infusion of democracy
into the Charter would at this moment be quite misplaced, but this
opportunity should be taken by the Queen of Portugal to _establish_ a
_state_ of _legality_ and _security_, by compelling any new Ministry
to lay the accounts every year before the Cortes (which has not been
done for the last ten years, either by Progressistas, Septembristas,
or others), by establishing irremovable judges, and appointing thereto
incorruptible persons, by _honestly and fairly_ distributing the
patronage in the Army--apart from the party--which will now be
possible as the King has the command himself, and by adopting such
measures of _internal_ improvement as will promote the _material_
welfare of the people.

_These_ are the principles which the Queen would wish to see _her_
representative urge upon the Portuguese Court and Government, and
she has no doubt that they are in perfect conformity with Lord John
Russell's own views. The Queen cannot help repeating that the tone and
bearing of Mr Southern are more those of a Portuguese Demagogue than
of an English Representative.


[Pageheading: A CONCILIATORY POLICY]


_The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria._

TUILERIES, _15th January 1847._

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am truly happy to learn what you say about
your feelings on those troublesome politics; I can assure you that
many people who are, in fact, quite indifferent
to politics, _renchérissent_ in expressions of dislike and contempt
_seulement_, because they believe that you have those opinions. Many
wise people repeat sayings which they assume to come from your
own mouth, such, for instance, "that Louis Philippe could never be
trusted, being, after all, an old fox," etc.

The King's Speech was as unobjectionable as possible. I trust that
there will be no _bitterness_ in yours. It is as much, if not more,
in the interest of Great Britain to keep France quiet and continuing a
peaceable policy than in that of France. France, as the old Duke once
said with great truth, has been already _under water several times,
what could be spoiled has been spoiled_, what remains _is pretty
solid_. To attack France in France would lead to the most dangerous
consequences. In general, if we get once a great war again you will
be sure to have everywhere revolutions, and to imagine that you will
escape in England all reactions would be a grievous mistake. When one
looks to the changes, brought about in England in consequence of the
Revolution of July, one is quite astounded. Here they changed nothing
but the dynasty, in England _the very spirit of the old Monarchy
has been abolished_, and what will be, in the course of time, the
consequences, it is not easy to tell. A bad Constitution acts strongly
on the people. Look to America, even to Belgium. Ever, my dearest
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.


[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND PORTUGAL]


_Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell._

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, _14th February 1847._

Lord John Russell's memorandum contains two different questions. The
one is this: how far the interests of England require an interference
in the affairs of Portugal for the restoration of peace in that
country and the preservation of its Throne, and how far England is
bound by existing treaties to interfere.

As to this question, it appears from Lord John's memorandum that
the ancient treaties having reference to _foreign_ invasion only are
inapplicable to the present case, that the Quadruple Treaty
would revive on the appearance of Dom Miguel in Portugal, that an
understanding with Spain ought to be come to for its execution, but
Lord John does not make any specific proposal.

The other question is, what wrongs the Queen, the Ministers, and the
rebels may have done to bring about the present state of affairs. This
the Queen conceives can only be decided by a _most minute, impartial,
and anxious scrutiny_. She indignantly rejects the notion to leave
this decision to Mr Southern.... Lord John's statement contains,
however, nothing but the echo of his reports.

Lord John will upon reflection admit that to say "that recent events
exhibit a spirit of tyranny and cruelty in the Portuguese Government
_without a parallel_ in any part of Europe," there, where not _one_
execution has taken place, is rather a strong expression.

That the cruelties and miseries inseparable from a Civil War are to
be deplored, there can be no doubt of, and it is in order to stop a
further continuance and perhaps aggravation of these horrors, that
the Queen is so anxious to see the struggle brought to an early
termination.

The Queen hopes to see Lord John to-morrow at three o'clock, when she
hopes that he will be able to submit a definitive step.


[Page Heading: ENGLAND AND PORTUGAL]


_Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell._

_14th March 1847._

The Queen wishes again to call Lord John Russell's serious attention
to the state of Spain and Portugal, and to the policy which has been
pursued with regard to them, and the result of this policy. In Spain
we have taken up the cause of the Progressistas, and what has been the
consequence? They desert us.

We have no longer the slightest influence in that country; France has
it all her own way, and we shall see the Cortes confirm the succession
of the Infanta and her children without being able to prevent it. Of
the Progressistas, on whom Lord Palmerston, Lord Clarendon, and others
always placed their hopes, Mr Bulwer says _now_: "The fact is, that
though they are the party least servile to France, they are the most
impracticable party, and belonging to a lower class of society, who
have not the same feelings of honourable and gentlemanlike conduct
which sometimes guide a portion, though a very small one, of their
opponents."

In Spain therefore it is, the Queen fears, _too late_; but let us not
throw away this lesson, and, if it is still possible, not also lose
Portugal. Our influence there is fast going, and Sir H. Seymour[1]
confirms what _every one_ but Mr Southern has stated for the last
two months, viz. that we are believed to be favourable to the rebels;
consequently, that no advice of ours will be listened to. Sir H.
Seymour further says: "I should have been glad to have gained a little
time, and not at the outset of my mission to be obliged to call the
Government to account upon various scores. Your orders, however,
leave me no option, and I shall be obliged to administer a series of
reproofs which will, I fear, confirm the notion as to our unfriendly
feelings." This is the course the Queen thinks so very unfortunate;
trifles about two horses, the beating of a gardener of Lord Howard's
by some soldiers on a march in times of Civil War, etc., are made
topics of serious complaint. Most peremptory notes are written,
threatening the Government with our men-of-war, whilst it is held to
be unwise to threaten the insurgents.

Then, the Court is told to believe _our feelings of attachment_ for
them!

Sir H. Seymour says that his position is rendered very difficult in
consequence. We have now the results before us. Let us, therefore,
before Portugal, our ancient ally, turns also away from us, and leans
to France or Spain in preference, as she _must_, if we give her such
doubtful support, try to pursue a more conciliatory course; these
peremptory and dictatory notes, these constant complaints, produce the
worst and most unfortunate effect.

These very Septembristas have been always the greatest enemies
of England, and would be the first to turn against us should they
succeed.

There should more latitude be given to the resident Minister not
to press things at moments when they produce embarrassment to a
Government already _tottering_, but to give him the option of waiting
for a fit opportunity, and for the manner in which it is to be done,
which a person on the spot can be a better judge of than we can in
England.

Once more the Queen earnestly warns Lord John of the imminent danger
of England losing _all_ legitimate influence in Portugal, which ought
now, more than ever, to be of the greatest _importance_ to us.

The Queen has in all this _spoken_ solely of English influence, but
this influence becomes of still greater importance to her when the
Sovereigns of that country are her near and dear relations.[2]

    [Footnote 1: Envoy Extraordinary at Lisbon.]

    [Footnote 2: This letter at once bore fruit, a conference
    being held in London between the representatives of Great
    Britain, Spain, France, and Portugal, and armed co-operation
    to enforce the acceptance of certain terms by the
    Revolutionary Junta being decided upon.]


[Page Heading: THE SEPTENNIAL ACT]


_Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria._

CHESHAM PLACE, _19th March 1847._

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty. Lord John
Russell thinks it right to state to your Majesty that the prevailing
opinion in the Cabinet is that when the necessary business in the
House of Commons has been finished, a Dissolution of Parliament should
take place.

This course would be conformable to the usage from the passing of the
Septennial Act till 1830. From 1830 to the present year no House of
Commons has been allowed to continue six years. The Dissolutions of
Lord Grey in 1831 and 1832, of Sir Robert Peel in 1834, the death of
William the Fourth in 1837, Lord Melbourne's Dissolution in 1841, have
all interrupted the natural life of Parliaments. But all Governments
since the accession of the House of Hanover have been of opinion (with
one or two exceptions) that it is hazardous to allow a Parliament to
continue seven years, as circumstances may arise making a Dissolution
very detrimental to the public welfare.

These being general considerations, Lord John Russell would reserve
any decision on the subject till the moment shall arrive when a
Dissolution may appear to your Majesty's advisers to be the course
most likely to secure moderate and fair elections.


_Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell._

_25th March 1847._

The Queen with pleasure approves the appointment of Lord Clarendon's
brother to the vacant stall at St Paul's. The Queen would, however,
draw Lord John's attention generally to the mode of filling up
those Church sinecures. She is quite aware how necessary it is for a
Minister to be able to recommend to such places persons of political
connections, but she thinks that where it can be done, it would be of
great use both to the Church and the country to give these places
of emolument to Churchmen distinguished for their _scientific
attainments_, who have neither the means nor the time to prosecute
their researches, whilst their labours might be of the greatest
importance to the country. Such person of this kind, for instance,
the Prince thinks, is a Mr Cureton, who has just published the _real_
epistles of St Ignatius, which he translated from the Syriac, and
is about to produce a Gospel of St Matthew which is considered the
undoubted original in the Coptic dialect, and other most important
documents lately acquired for the British Museum.


[Page Heading: FOREIGN OFFICE DRAFTS]


_Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston._

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, _17th April 1847._

