
Motcomb, half a mile north from Shaftesbury, is noted for containing the
wells from which the inhabitants of Shaftesbury are supplied with water.
Great numbers of the inhabitants get their living by carrying water, for
which they have three halfpence or twopence the horse load. On this account
there is a particular custom yearly observed, according to ancient
agreement, dated 1662, between the Lord of the Manor of Gillingham, and the
Mayor and Burgesses of Shaftesbury. The Mayor is obliged, the Monday before
Holy Thursday, to dress up a prize bezon, or bizant, somewhat like a May
garland in form, with gold and peacocks' feathers, and carry to Enmori
Green, half a mile below the town in Motcomb, as an acknowledgment for the
water, together with a raw calf's head, a pair of gloves, a gallon of beer
or ale, and two penny loaves of white wheaten bread, which the steward
receives and carries away for his own use. The ceremony being over, the
bizant is restored to the Mayor, and brought back by one of his officers
with great solemnity. This bizant is generally so richly adorned with plate
and jewels, borrowed from the neighbouring gentry, as to be worth not less
than £1,500.

C. D.

       *       *       *       *       *


TRINITY TERM ENDS 11th JUNE.

(_For the Mirror._)


"On this day," says Brady, in his _Calendaria_, "Trinity Term ends; and
immediately on the rising of the Court, commences that cessation from legal
business emphatically denominated the 'long vacation,' or that space which
our ancestors have wisely left undisturbed by law concerns, that the people
may be the better able to attend to the different harvests throughout the
kingdom. Thus the activity and bustle of the Inns of Court suddenly subside
into a want of occupation, not unaptly displayed in the following anonymous
parody:--"

  "My lord now quits his venerable seat,
    The six clerk on his padlock turns the key,
  From business hurries to his snug retreat,
    And leaves vacation and the town to me."

  "Now all is hush'd--asleep the eye of care--
    And Lincoln's Inn a solemn stillness holds,
  Save where the porter whistles o'er the square,
    Or our dog barks, or basket-woman scolds:"

  "Save that from yonder pump and dusty stair
    The moping shoe-black and the laundrymaid
  Complain of such as from the town repair,
    And leave their little quarterage unpaid."

H. B. A.

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.


THE RIVER NIGER.


A Second Edition of the _Literary Gazette_ of Saturday last enables us to
lay before our readers the following important discovery:--

"We have the gratification to state, that the great question respecting the
course of the Niger, which has puzzled geography and literature for many
centuries, has at last been determined by British courage and perseverance.
We have just received the annexed letter from our esteemed and intelligent
friend, Mr. Fisher, surgeon of the Atholl, well known to the world for his
own interesting voyages and travels; and we lose no time in communicating
the important information to the public, through the pages of the _Literary
Gazette_."

    "His Majesty's Ship Atholl, at Sea, Bight of Biafra, Feb. 2, 1831."

"Dear Sir,--I take the opportunity of writing you a few lines, by a vessel
that we have just now met on her way to England. My object in writing in
this hasty manner is to acquaint you that the grand geographical problem
respecting the termination of the Niger is at length solved."

"The Landers, after having reached Youri, embarked in a canoe on the Niger,
or, as it is called there, the Quarra, and came down the stream until they
reached the sea, in the Bight of Biafra. The branch by which they came to
the coast is called the Nun, or Brasse River, being the first river to the
eastward of Cape Formosa. On their way down the river they were attacked by
the Hibboos (a fierce nation that inhabit its banks), and made prisoners,
or rather captives; but the King of Brasse happening to be in that country
buying slaves, got them released, by giving the price of six slaves for
each of them. In the scuffle that ensued at the time they were taken, one
of them lost his journal."

"Whilst at Youri they got the Prayerbook that belonged to Mr. Anderson, the
brother-in-law and fellow-traveller of the celebrated Mungo Park. They were
upwards of a month at Fernando Po, whence they embarked, about ten days
ago, in an English merchant-vessel bound to Rio Janeiro, on their way to
England. From their taking that circuitous route, I am in hopes that this
will reach you before they arrive, by which you will probably have it in
your power to give the first news of this important discovery."

"I do not recollect of any thing else to acquaint you with that is worthy
of notice; and even if I did, I have no time to mention it, as the boat by
which I send this (to the vessel) is just this moment ordered away."

"I must therefore bid you adieu for the present; and believe me, dear sir,
yours very sincerely."

"ALEXANDER FISHER."

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *


EPITAPH

    _On a Porter who died suddenly under a load._


  Pack'd up within these dark abodes,
  Lies one, in life inur'd to loads,
  Which oft he carried 'tis well known,
  Till Death pass'd by and threw him down;
  When he that carried loads before,
  Became a load which others bore
  To this his inn--where, as they say,
  They leave him till another day.

       *       *       *       *       *


ROYAL OATHS.


In former times sovereign princes had their favourite oaths, which they
made use of on all occasions when their feelings or passions were excited.
The oaths of the English monarchs are on record, and a list of them might
easily be made, by having recourse to the ancient writers of our history,
from the conquest to the reign of Elizabeth, who did not scruple, _pia
regina, et bona mater_, of the Church of England as she was, to swear by
"_God's wounds_," an oath issuing at this time frequently from vulgar
mouths, but softened down to "_zounds_."

Brantome, who lived in the court of Francis the First, contemporary with
Henry the Eighth of England, has recorded the oaths of four succeeding
monarchs immediately preceding his time. He tells us that Louis the
Eleventh swore by "_God's Easter;_" Charles the Eighth, by "_God's light;_"
Louis the Twelfth used an oath, still common among the French rabble, "_The
Devil take me;_" but the oath of Francis the First was polished enough for
the present day: it was, "_On the word of a gentleman_."

K----ll, Norfolk.

C. H. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset House,)
London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic; G. G. BENNIS,
55, Rue Neuve, St. Augustin. Paris; and by all Newsmen and Booksellers.