Now take ye good heed, Cornish maidens, how ye put on vain apparel, to
win love. And cast down your eyes, all ye damsels of the west, and look
ye meekly on the ground! Be ye good and gentle, tender and true; and
when ye see your image in the glass, and begin to be lifted up with the
beauty of that shadowy thing, call to mind the maiden of Morwenna, her
noble eyes and comely countenance, the vesture of price and the
glittering ring. Sit ye by the wheel, as of old they sate and as ye draw
the lengthening wool, sing ye ever-more and say,

  "Beryan Erde,
   Oyn and Perde!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A whistling Wife" &c.--I can supply another version of the couplet
quoted in "Folk Lore" (Vol. ii., p. 164.), which has the merit of being
more rhymical and mysterious. In what district it was current I know
not.

  "A whistling wife and a crowing hen
   Will call the old gentleman out of his den."

G.L.B.


_A Charm for Warts._--In some parts of Ireland, especially towards the
south, they place great faith in the following charm:--When a funeral is
passing by, they rub the warts and say three times, "May these warts and
this corpse pass away and never more return;" sometimes adding, "in the
name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost."

JARLTZBERG.


_"Hanging out the Broom"._--Besides the instance given by Mr. R.F.
Johnson (Vol. i., p. 384.), perhaps some of your readers can inform me
of the origin of a somewhat similar custom, applicable to all ships and
vessels for sale or hire, by the broom (all old one being generally
used) being attached to the mast-head: if of two masts, to the
foretop-mast head.

WP.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD PLUNKET AND SAINT AGOBARD.

Some of your readers may remember a speech in parliament by, as I think,
Lord Plunket, in which his lordship argued with great eloquence in
behalf of the Bill for the Emancipation of the Roman Catholics. Among
many passages therein of equal truth and rhetorical power, there was one
long afterwards much quoted, paraphrased, and praised. It was that in
which he reminded the House, that those for whom he pleaded were
fellow-subjects of the same race, offspring of the same Creator, alike
believers in the One true God, the equal recipients of His mercies,
appealing for {227} His blessings though the medium of the same faith,
and looking forward for salvation to the One Intercessor, Mediator, and
Sacrifice for all,--men, who, as they did, addressed the Eternal in the
form of that "Universal prayer"--Our Father--the authority and the
privilege of one common parentage, offered by the all in the union of
the same spirit, in the conviction of the same wants, in the aspiration
of the same hope. I say, I think Lord Plunket so spoke, for I write from
memory dating from the period when George the Third was king. Now be
this so: according to the dogmas of some critics, Lord Plunket may be
convicted of an eloquent plagiary. Read the following extract from a
missive by S. Agobard, to be found in the _Bibl. Vet. Patrum_, tome
xiii, page 429., by Galland, addressed "Ad præfatum Imperatorem,
adversus legem Gundobadi et impia certamina quæ per eam geruntur," and
say whether, in spite of the separation of centuries, there does not
appear a family likeness, though there were no family acquaintance
between them; Saint Agobard being Bishop of Lyons in the ninth centry,
and Lord Plunket Attorney-General for Ireland in the nineteenth.

The Saint is pleading against the judical ordeal:

    "Illi autem profecti, prædicaverunt ubique Domino cooperante;
    annuntiataque est ab eis omni creaturæ; id est, cunetis
    nationibus mundi; una fides indita per Deum, una spes diffusa
    per Spiritum Sanctum in cordibus credentium, una caritas nata in
    omnibus, una voluntas, accensum unum desiderium, tradita una
    oratio; ut omnes omnino ex diversis gentibus, diversis
    conditionibus, diverso sexu, nobilitate, honestate, servitute
    diversa, simul dicant uni Deo, et Patri omnium; Pater Noster qui
    es, &c., sicut unum Patrem invocantes, ita unam santificationem
    quærentes, unum regnum postulantes, unam adimpletionem
    voluntatis ejus, sicut fit in coelo optantes; unum sibi panem
    quotidianum dari precantes et omnibus dimitti debita."

To which other passages might be added, as, in fact, S. Agobard pursues
the one idea until he hunts it down to the one effect of sameness and
common antithesis. Should we say Lord Plunket had read these passages,
and is thereby convicted of eloquent plagiary? I say, No! Lauder then
equally convicted Milton of trespassing on the thoughts of others, by
somewhat apposite quotations from the classics. We are, in truth, too
much inclined to this. The little, who cannot raise themselves to the
stature of the great, are apt to strive after a socialist level, by
reducing all to one same standard--their own. Truth is common to all
ages, and will obtain utterance by the truthful and the eloquent
throughout all time.

S.H.

Athenæum, August 12.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON THE SECOND EDITION OF MR. CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK OF LONDON

14. _Long Acre._ Mr. Cunningham, upon the authority of Parton's _History
of St. Giles's_, says:

    "First known as the Elms, then called Seven Acres, and since
    1612, from the length of a certain slip of ground, then first
    used as a public pathway, as Long Acre."

The latter part of this statement is incorrect. The Seven Acres were
known as _Long Acre_ as early as 1552, when they were granted to the
Earl of Bedford. See _Strype_, B. vi. p. 88.

Machyn, in his _Diary_, printed by the Camden Society, p. 21., under the
date A.D. 1556, has the following allusion to the _Acre_:

    "The vj day of December the Abbot of Westminster went a
    procession with his convent. Before him went all the Santuary
    men with crosse keys upon their garments, and after went iij for
    murder: on was the Lord Dacre's sone of the North, was wypyd
    with a shett abowt him for kyllyng of on Master West, squyre,
    dwellyng besyd ... and anodur theyff that dyd long to one of
    Master Comtroller ... dyd kylle Recherd Eggylston the
    Comtroller's tayller, and kylled him in the _Long Acurs_, the
    bak-syd Charyng Crosse."

15. _Norfolk House, St. James's Square._ The present Norfolk House was
built from a design by R. Brettingham, in 1742, by Thomas Duke of
Norfolk, and finished by his brother Edward in 1762. Mr. Cunningham
speaks as if the old house, in which George III. was born, was still
standing.

16. _Soho Square._ Mr. Cunningham has not corrected his mistake about
Mrs. Cornelys's house in this square, (see "Notes and Queries," vol. i.,
pp. 244, 450.). _D'Almaine's_, which Mr. Cunningham confounds with Mrs.
Cornelys's, was at a former period tenanted by the Duke of Argyll; then
by the Earl of Bradford; and, at a later time, by the celebrated Onslow,
who held his parliamentary levees in the principal drawing-room. The
ceilings of the best rooms are adorned with paintings by Rebecca and
Angelica Kauffman.

Mr. Cunningham has taken some pains to destroy the _Pennant_ tradition
concerning the name of this square, but he has not given us one
important piece of information, i.e. that between the years 1674 and
1681, the ground was surveyed by _Gregory King_, an eminent architect of
those days, who projected the square with the adjacent streets. Query,
Did it not take the name of _King's_ Square from the architect? This
seems very probable; more especially as the statue of Charles I. was not
placed in the square until the beginning of the next century. The centre
space was originally occupied by a splendid fountain, (the work of
Colley Cibber's father), an estimate of the "cost and charges" of which
is now before me.

Among the eminent inhabitants of this square, not noticed by Mr.
Cunningham, were the following:--Lord {228} Berkely, Lord Byron, Lord
Grimstone, Lord Howard, Lord Leicester, Sir Thomas Mansel, Lord Morpeth,
Lord Nottingham, Lord Peterborough, Lord Pierrepoint, Lord Pigot, Dudley
North, the Earl of Dartmouth, the Duchess of Cleveland, the Duchess of
Wharton, &c. These names appear in the books of the parish of St. Anne,
between the years of 1708 and 1772.

17. _Surrey Institution._ At one period (about 1825), this building was
known as the _Blackfriars Rotundo_. Here that execrable character,
Robert Taylor, who styled himself "the Devil's Chaplain," delivered his
blasphemous discourses.

18. _Opera House._ Mr. Cunningham, speaking of the translation of
_Arsinoe_, the first Anglo-Italian opera performed in this country,
says: "The translation was made by Thomas Clayton." This is an error,
for Clayton himself says, in his preface: "I was obliged to have an
Italian opera translated." Clayton was the composer of the music.

19. _James's (St.) Chapel, St. James's Palace._ Mr. Cunningham says,
"The service is chanted by the boys of the Chapel Royal." This ought to
read, "The service is chaunted by the boys _and gentlemen_ of the Chapel
Royal" The musical service of our cathedrals and collegiate
establishments cannot be performed without four kinds of voices, treble,
alto, tenor, and bass.

20. _Bagnigge Wells._ Mr. Cunningham makes a strange mistake concerning
this once popular place of amusement when he says, "first opened to the
public in the year 1767." A stone, still to be seen, let into the wall
over what was formerly the garden entrance, has the following
inscription:

  "S + T
  This is Bagnigge
  Hovse neare
  The Pinder a
  Wakefeilde
  1680."

The gardens were first opened for the accommodation of persons who
partook of the mineral springs; subsequently, amusements were added; and
in Bickham's curious work, _The Musical Entertainer_ (circa 1738), is an
engraving of Tom Hippersley mounted in the "singing rostrum," regaling
the company with a song. About half a century after this date, a regular
orchestra was erected, and the entertainments resembled Marylebone
Gardens and Vauxhall. The old house and gardens were demolished in 1842,
to make room for several new streets.

Edward F. Rimbault.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON COLERIDGE'S AIDS TO REFLECTION

(2nd Edition, 1831)

Introductory Aphorisms, No. xii., p. 7.:

    "Tertullian had good reason for his assertation, that the
    simplest Christian (if indeed a Christian) knows more than the
    most accomplished irreligious philosopher."

The passage referred to is in the Apology, c. 46:

    "Deum quilibet opifex Christianus et invenit et ostendit et
    exinde totum, quod in Deo quæritur, re quoque assignat; licet
    Plato affirmet factitatorem universitatis neque inveniri facilem
    et inventum enarrari in omnes difficilem."

Note to Aphorism xxxi., p. 30.:

    "To which he [Plato] may possibly have referred in his phrase
    [Greek: theoparadotos sophia]."

Possibly Coleridge may have borrowed this from Berkeley's _Siris_, §
301., where [Greek: theoparadotos philosophia] is cited from "a heathen
writer." The word [Greek: theoparadotos] occurs in Proclus and Marinus
(see Valpy's _Stephani Thesaurus_), but not in Plato.

The motto from Seneca, prefixed to the Aphorisms on Spiritual Religion,
is from the fourty-first Epistle of that writer.

The question from Tertullian in the Comment on the eight of those
Aphorisms,

  "Certum est quia impossibile est."--p. 199.

is from the _De Carne Christi_, cap. v.

Aphorism iv., p. 227.:

  "In wonder all philosophy began."

