Mur  No, no, it's gone too far, it's gone too far, thanks to the man
who owns this house, you know all about it.  How he found me a thriving,
sober lad, flogging the village children through their spelling book.
How he took a fancy to me as he called it, and employed me here to
teach his son and Miss Florence.  [His voice falters.]
Then remember how I forgot who and what I was, and was cuffed out
of the house like a dog.  How I lost my school, my good name,
but still hung about the place, they all looked askance at me,
you don't know how that kills the heart of a man, then I took to drink
and sank down, down, till I came to this.

Coyle  You owe Sir Edward revenge, do you not?  You shall have
a rare revenge on him, that mortgage you found last week puts
the remainder of the property in my reach, and I close my hand on it
unless he will consent to my terms.

Mur  You can drive a hard bargain.  I know.

Coyle  And a rare price I ask for his forbearance, Abel--his daughter's hand.

Mur  Florence?

Coyle  Yes, Florence marries Richard Coyle.  Richard Coyle steps into
Sir Edward's estates.  There, you dog, will not that be a rare revenge.
So follow me with those papers.  [Crosses to L.]  And now to lay
the mine that will topple over the pride of the Trenchards.  [Exit L. 1 E.]

Mur  He marry Florence!  Florence Trenchard!  My Florence.  Mine!
Florence _his wife_.  No, no, better a thousand times she had been mine,
low as I am, when I dreampt that dream, but it shan't be, it shan't be.
[Tremblingly putting papers in bag.]  If I can help her, sot though I am.
Yes, I can help her, if the shock don't break me down.  Oh!
my poor muddled brain, surely there was a release with it when I found it.
I must see Florence to warn her and expose Coyle's villainy.  Oh!
how my poor head throbs when I try to.  I shall die if I don't have
a drop of brandy, yes brandy.  [Exit, L. 1 E.]


Scene 3--Chamber in 3. at Trenchard Manor.  Large shower bath near R. 3 E.
Toilet table with draw, L. 2 E.  Small bottle in draw with
red sealing wax on cork.  Asa discovered seated, R. with foot on table,
smoking a cigar.  Valise on floor in front of him.  Binny discovered
standing by his side.


Asa  Wal, I guess I begin to feel kinder comfortable here in this place,
if it wan't for this tarnal fat critter.  He don't seem to have
any work to do, but swells out his big bosom like an old turkey-cock
in laying time.  I do wonder what he's here for?  Do they think I
mean to absquatulate with the spoons?  [Binny attempts to take valise--
Asa puts his foot on it.]  Let that sweat.  That's my plunder.

Binny  Will you have the kindness to give me your keys, hif you please, sir?

Asa  What do you want with my keys?

Bin  To put your things away in the wardrobe, sir.

Asa  Wal, I calculate if my two shirts, three bosoms, four collars,
and two pair of socks were to get into that everlasting big bunk,
they'd think themselves so all-fired small I should never be able
to crawl into them again.

Bin  Will you take a baath before you dress?

Asa  Take a baath?

Bin  A baath.

Asa  I suppose you mean a bath.  Wal, man, I calkalate I ain't going to
expose myself to the shakes by getting into cold water in this cruel
cold climate of yours, so make tracks.

Bin  Make what?

Asa  Vamose!

Bin  Make vamose!

Asa  Absquatulate.

Bin  Ab-- what sir?

Asa  Skedaddle.

Bin  Skedaddle?

Asa  Oh! get out.

Bin  Oh!  [Going.]  If you are going to dress you'll want some hassistance.

Asa  Assistance!  what to get out of my unmentionables and into them again?
Wal, 'spose I do, what then?

Bin  Just ring the bell, hi'll hattend you.

Asa  All right, come along.  [Binny going.]  Hold on, say,
I may want to yawn presently and I shall want somebody to shut my mouth.
[Binny hurries off, L. 1 E.]  Wal, now I am alone, I can look
about me and indulge the enquiring spirit of an American citizen.
What an everlasting lot of things and fixins there is to be sure.
[Opens table draw.]  Here's a place will hold my plunder beautifully.
[Sees bottle.]  Hallo, what's this?  [Comes down.]  Something good to drink.
[Smells bottle.]  It smells awful bad.  [Reads label.]  Golden Fluid,
one application turns the hair a beautiful brown, several applications
will turn the hair a lustrous black.  Well, if they keep on it may
turn a pea green.  I reckon this has been left here by some fellow
who is ashamed of the natural color of his top knot.  [Knock.]  Come in.


Enter Binny, L. 1 E.


Bin  Mr. Buddicombe, sir, my lord's hown man.

Asa  Roll him in.  [Binny beckons, enter Buddicombe.]
Turkey cock number two, what is it?

Bud  My Lord Dundreary's compliments and _have_ you seen
a small _bottle_ in the toilet table drawer?

Asa  Suppose I had, what then?

Bud  My lord wants it particly.

Asa  Was it a small bottle?

Bud  A small bottle.

Bin  Bottle small.

Asa  Blue label?

Bin  Label blue.

Asa  Red sealing wax on the top?

Bud  Red sealing wax.

Bin  Wax red.

Asa  Nice little bottle?

Bin  Little bottle nice.

Asa  Wal, I ain't seen it.  [Aside.]  If my lord sets a valley on it,
guess it must be worth something.

Bud  Sorry to trouble you, sir.

Bin  [ Aside to Bud.]  What his hit?

Bud  My lord's hair dye, the last bottle, and he turns red tomorrow.
[Exit in haste.]

Bin  Orrable, what an hawful situation, to be sure.

Asa  [Aside.]  So I've got my ring on that lord's nose,
and if I don't make him dance to my tune it's a pity.

Bin  Miss Florence begged me to say she had borrowed a costume for you,
for the harchery meeting, sir.

Asa  Hain't you dropped something?

Bin  Where?

Asa  What do you mean by the harchery meeting?

Bin  Where they shoot with bows and harrows.

Asa  There goes another of them, oh! you need'nt look for them,
you can't find 'em when you want 'em.  Now you just take my compliments
to Miss Trenchard when I goes out shooting with injurious weapons
I always wears my own genuine shooting costume.  That's the natural buff
tipped off with a little red paint.

Bin  Good gracious, he'd look like Hadam and Heve, in the garden of Eden.
[Exit Binny.]

Asa  Wal, there's a queer lot of fixings.  [Sees shower bath.]
What on airth is that?  Looks like a 'skeeter net, only it 'ain't
long enough for a feller to lay down in unless he was to coil
himself up like a woodchuck in a knot hole.  I'd just like to know
what the all-fired thing is meant for.  [Calls.]  Say Puffy, Puffy,
Oh! he told me if I wanted him to ring the bell.  [Looks round room.]
Where on airth is the bell?  [Slips partly inside shower bath, pulls rope,
water comes down.]  Murder!  help!  fire!  Water!  I'm drown.


Enter Skillet, Sharpe, R. 1 E.  Binny, Buddicombe, L. 1 E.,
seeing Asa, all laugh, and keep it up till curtain falls.

CURTAIN.


ACT  II


Scene 1.--Oriel Chamber in one.


Enter Mrs. Mountchessington and Augusta, L. 1 E., dressed for
Archery Meeting.


Mrs M  No, my dear Augusta, you must be very careful.
I don't by any means want you to give up De Boots, his expectations
are excellent, but, pray be attentive to this American savage,
as I rather think he will prove the better match of the two,
if what I hear of Mark Trenchard's property be correct.

Aug  [Disdainfully.]  Yes, ma.

Mrs M  And look more cheerful, my love.

Aug  I am so tired, ma, of admiring things I hate.

Mrs. M  Yes, my poor love, yet we must all make sacrifices to society.
Look at your poor sister, with the appetite.

Aug  What am I to be enthusiastic about with that American, Ma?

Mrs M  Oh! I hardly know yet, my dear.  We must study him.
I think if you read up Sam Slick a little, it might be useful,
and just dip into Bancroft's History of the United States,
or some of Russell's Letters; you should know something of
George Washington, of whom the Americans are justly proud.

Aug  Here he comes, ma.  What a ridiculous figure he looks
in that dress, ha! ha!

Mrs M  Hush, my dear!


Enter Asa, in Archery Dress.


Aug  Oh, Mr. Trenchard, why did you not bring me one of those
lovely Indian's dresses of your boundless prairie?

Mrs M  Yes, one of those dresses in which you hunt the buffalo.

Aug  [Extravagantly.]  Yes, in which you hunt the buffalo.

Asa  [Imitating.]  In which I hunt the buffalo.  [Aside.]
Buffaloes down in Vermont.  [Aloud.]  Wal, you see, them dresses
are principally the nateral skin, tipped off with paint,
and the indians object to parting with them.

Both  Ahem!  ahem!

Asa  The first buffalo I see about here I shall hunt up for you.

Mrs M  Oh, you Americans are so clever, and so acute.

Aug  Yes, so 'cute.

Asa  Yes, we're 'cute, we are; know soft solder when we see it. 

Aug  [Aside.]  Ma, I do believe he's laughing at us.

Mrs M  Oh, no, my dear, you are mistaken.  Oh! I perceive they are
appearing for the archery practice.  I suppose we shall see you on
the ground, Mr. Trenchard.

Asa  Yes, I'll be there like a thousand of brick.

Aug  A thousand of brick!

Mrs M  Hush, my dear! that is doubtless some elegant American expression.
Au revoir, Mr. Trenchard.

Asa  Which?

Mrs M  Au revoir.  [Exit with Augusta, R.]

Asa  No, thank you, don't take any before dinner.  No use their
talking Dutch to me.  Wal, I never see an old gal stand fire like that,
she's a real old bison bull.  I feel all-fired tuckered out riding
in those keers.  I'd like to have a snooze if I could find a place
to lay down in.  [Sees curtain on window, L. E.]  Oh, this might do!
[Pulls curtain, then starts back.]  No you don't!  One shower
bath a day is enough for me.  [Cautiously opens them.]  No,
I guess this is all right, I shall be just as snug in here as in
a pew at meeting, or a private box at the Theatre.  Hello!
somebody's coming.  [Goes into recess.]


Enter Dundreary and Buddicombe, L. 1 E.


Bud  My lord--

Dun  [Business.]

Bud  My lord!

Dun  [Business.]

Bud  Your lordship!!  [Louder.]

Dun  There, now you've spoiled it.

Bud  Spoiled what, my lord?

Dun  Spoiled what, my lord; why, a most magnificent sneeze!

Bud  I am very sorry, my lord.

Dun  Now that I can speak alone with you, tell me about that hair dye.
Have you found it?

Bud  Not a trace of it, my lord.

Dun  If you don't find it, I'll discharge you.

Bud  Very well, my lord.  [Bows and exits, L. 1 E.]

Dun  Very well, my lord!  He's gone and lost my hair dye,
and my hair turns red to-morrow, and when I ask him to find it
for me or I'll discharge him, he says, ``Very well, my lord.''
He's positively idiotic, he is--  Ah! here comes Miss Georgina,
that gorgeous creature--that lovely sufferer.  [Exit, L. 1 E.]

Asa  [Looking out.]  What's the price of hair dye?  Hallo!
he's coming again with that sick girl.


Re-enter Dundreary and Georgina, L. 1 E.


Dun  Will you try and strengthen your limbs with a gentle walk in the garden?

Georgina  No, thank you, my lord.  I'm so delicate.  Oh, my lord,
it is so painful to walk languidly through life, to be unable,
at times, to bear the perfumes of one's favorite flowers.
Even those violets you sent me yesterday I was compelled to
have removed from my room, the perfume was too strong for me.
I'm _so_ delicate.

Dun  Yes, Miss Georgina; but they're very strengthening flowers, you know.

Geo  Yes, my lord, you are always right.

Dun  Do you know I'm getting to be very robust?

Geo  Would I could share that fault with you; but I am so delicate.  

Dun  If you were robust I should not love you as I do.
It would deprive you of that charm which enchains me to your lovely side,
which--which--

Geo  Oh, my lord, my lord!  I'm going to faint.

Dun  And I'm going to sneeze, you faint while I sneeze.

Geo  [Taking his arm.]  Oh!  my lord.

Dun  Do you know what a sneeze is?

Geo  No, my lord.

Dun  She never sneezed.  I'll tell you what a sneeze is.
Imagine a very large spider.

Geo  [Screams.]  Where, my lord?

Dun  No, no, I don't mean a real spider, only an imaginary one,
a large spider getting up your nose, and all of a sudden,
much to his disgust, he discovers he has put his foot in it
and can't get it out again.

Geo  That must be very distressing.

Dun  For the spider, yes, and not very pleasant for the nose.

Geo  Oh!  my lord, do take me to mamma.

Dun  No, you lovely sufferer, let's walk a little more.

Geo  I can't my lord, I'm _so_ delicate.

Dun  Well, then, exercise, imitate that little hop of mine.  [Hops.]
It isn't a run, it's a--

Geo  What is it?

Dun  No, it isn't a what is it.  Well, let me suppose I get you an oyster.
[Georgina shakes her head.]  Oh! then suppose I get you an oyster.

Geo  No, my lord, I'm too delicate.

Dun  How would you like the left wing of a canary bird?

Geo  No, my lord, it's too strong for me.

Dun  Let me ask you a widdle--why does a duck go under water?
for divers reasons.  Now I'll give you another--why does a duck
come out of the water? for sundry reasons.  No! No! see,
you live on suction, you're like that bird with a long bill,
they call doctor, no, that's not it, I thought it was a doctor,
because it has a long bill--I mean a snipe--yes, you're a lovely snipe.
[Exeunt, R.]

Asa  [Looking after them.]  There goes a load of wooden nutmegs.
Hello, here comes somebody else.


Enter Florence, R., with paper.


Flo.  [Reads.]  ``One who still remembers what he ought long since
to have forgotten, wishes to speak with Miss Trenchard.''
Florence scratched out, ``on matters of life and death, near the orel,
in the west gallery,''  Written upon a dirty sheet of paper,
in a hardly legible hand.  What does this mean; it opens like one of
Mrs. Radcliffe's romances.  Well, here I am, and now for my correspondent.


Enter Murcott, L.


Mur  Oh! for one minute's clear head, Miss Florence.

Flo  I presume you are the writer of this?

Mur  Yes, I am.

Flo  You address me as an old acquaintance, but I do not recognize you.

Mur  So much the better.  So much the better.

Flo  I hate mystery, sir; but you see I have come to rendezvous.
I must know to whom I am speaking.

Mur  As frank as ever.  I am Abel Murcott.

Flo  Starting back!  You?

Mur  Do not be ashamed, I have not the strength to injure you,
if I had the evil.  In this shabby, broken down drunkard you
need not fear the madman, who years ago forgot in his frantic passion
the gulf that lay between your station and his own.  I am harmless
except to my self.

Flo  Speak on, sir; I hear you.

Mur  I need not tell you by what steps I came to this, you don't know,
maybe you never knew, what a maddening thing a passion is when it
turns against itself.  After being expelled from my tutorship in this house,
I lost my employment, self respect, hope.  I sought to drown recollection
and draw courage from drink.  It only embittered remembrances,
and destroyed the little courage I had left.  That I have bread to eat,
I owe to Mr. Coyle; he employed me as his clerk.  You know he has been
with your father this morning.  I have come to tell you my errand;
are you as brave as you used to be when I knew--

Flo  I fear nothing.

Mur  I come to tell you of your father's ruin, his utter ruin.

Flo  My father's ruin?  What?  What?

Mur  His estates are mortgaged, his creditors clamorous.  The Bailiffs
will be in Trenchard Manor to-day, disguised as your own servants.
This much Mr. Coyle has conceded to your father's respect for appearances.

Flo  Then beggary stares him in the face.  Poor father,
what a sad blow for him.  Is that all, sir?

Mur  No; the worst remains.

Flo  Go on, sir.

Mur  Coyle knows your father's weakness and as a means of
escape from ruin to the verge of which he has brought him,
he has this day proposed for your hand.

Flo  Mine!

Mur  On consideration of settling on you the Ravensdale Estate.

Flo  And my father, how did he listen to such insolence?

Mur  You know as well as I do how he would hear such a proposal,
at first a torrent of rage, then the strong ebb of selfishness set in,
and he consented to listen to the terms, to view them as something
to be considered, to consider them.

Flo  Good Heavens, can this be true?  No, I will not believe it of my father, 
and from such lips.

Mur  You have full right to think this and to say it, but mark your
father and Coyle to-day.  You will then see if I speak truth or not.

Flo  Forgive my distrust, Mr. Murcott.

Mur  I am past taking offence or feeling scorn, I have carried more
than can be heaped upon me, but I did not come only to give you
warning of your danger.

Flo  Can you avert it?

Asa  (Coming down between them).  Wal, stranger that's just the question
I was going to ask.

Flo  You here, sir, and listening.

Asa  Wal, it wasn't purpose, I went in there to take a snooze,
I heard you talking and I thought it wouldn't be polite of me
not to listen to what you had to say.  I'm a rough sort of a customer, and
don't know much about the ways of great folks.  But I've got a cool head,
a stout arm, and a willing heart, and I think I can help you,
just as one cousin ought to help another.

Flo  Well, I do think you are honest.

Mur  Shall I go on?

Flo  Yes, we will trust him, go on.

Mur  I found the Ravensdale mortgage while rumaging in an old deed box
of Coyle's father's, there was a folded paper inside the deed.
I took both to Coyle unopened, like a besotted fool that I was.
My belief is strong that the paper was the release of the mortgage
that the money had been paid off, and the release executed
without the seals having been cut from the original mortgage.
I have known such things happen.

Asa  Have ye, now?  Well, if a Yankee lawyer had done such a thing
he would have Judge Lynch after him in no time.  

Mur  You can but find that release, we may unmask this diabolical fiend
and save you.

Flo  But, surely, a villain of Coyle's stability would have destroyed
the paper, the very key-stone of his fraud.

Mur  I fear so.

Asa  Do you, now, wal, you're wrong, you're both wrong.
I guess you ain't either on you done much cyphering human nature.
The key stone of their fraud is just the point your
mighty cute rascals always leave unsecured.  Come along with me,
stranger, and we'll just work up this sum a little, two heads are
better than one.  Yours is a little muddled, but mine's pretty clear,
and if I don't circumvent that old sarpint, Coyle--

Flo  Well?

Asa  Say I am a skunk, that's all, and that's the meanest kind of an animal. 
[Exit L. 1st E.]

Flo  I owe you much, Mr. Murcott, more than I can ever repay.

Mur  No, no, no, if you did but know the hope of seeing you
has roused all the manhood that drink and misery has left me.
God bless you, Miss Florence.

Flo  No, you don't call me Florence as you did when I was
the truant pupil and you the indulgent tutor.  [Offers her hand.]

Mur  No, no; for heaven's sake do not call back that time
or I shall go mad! mad! mad.  [Rushes off, L. 1 E., followed by Florence.]


Scene 2--Park in 4.  Rural cottage, L. 1 E., adjoining which,
and projecting on stage an inside view of a dairy with sloping roof,
painting backing to look like milk pans.  The whole scene should
have a picturesque appearance.  Garden fence run across back,
ornamental gate or archway, R. 3 E.  Pigeon house on pole near dairy,
L. C.  Spinning wheel inside cottage door, one or two rustic benches,
R. and L.


Enter John, R. 3 E., with two milk pails on a yoke, puts them down
near dairy, then looks off, R. 3 E.


John  There they go, that's a bull's eye, I warrant.  Dang me though,
if I wouldn't rather see Miss Mary than this cock robin sports yonder,
here she comes.  Good morning, Miss Mary.  [Enter Mary from cottage L.]

Mary  Oh, Wickens, you are there.  How kind of you to help me
with the milk pails to-day, when all the lads and lasses have
given themselves a holiday to see the shooting.

John  Ah, Miss Mary, you ought to be among then, with a green hat
and feather, if all had their rights.

Mary  [Laughing.]  Nay, ladies without a farthing in the world,
ought to put aside their ladyships and make themselves:
besides I'm proud of my dairy here, just help me with this troublesome
fellow, steady, don't shake it, the cream is foaming so beautifully.
There.  [John carries pan into cottage and returns down, R.]

John  Now, Miss Mary, what can I do for you?

Mary  Let me see; well, really, I do believe, Wickens,
I've nothing to do but amuse myself.

John  Dang it, Miss, that's a pity, cos I can't help you at that, you see.

Mary  Oh!  Yes, bring me out dear old Welsh nurse's spinning wheel
[Exit John into cottage, L. 2 E.]  by the side of which I have stood
so often, a round eyed baby wondering at its whirring wheel.
[Reenter John with wheel, places it near cottage, L. 2 E.]  There,
that will do famously.  I can catch the full scent of the jessamines.

John  [R. C.]  Anything more, Miss Mary?

Mary  No, thank you, Wickens!

John  [Going.]  Good morning, Miss Mary.

Mary  Good morning, Wickens.

John  [Returning.]  Is there anything I can get for you, Miss Mary?

Mary  [Spinning.]  Nothing, thank you.

John  Dang me if I wouldn't like to stop all day, and watch
her pretty figure and run errands for her.  [Exit R. 3 E.,
crosses behind fence.]

Mary  Poor Wickens is not the only one who thinks I am a very ill-used
young body.  Now I don't think so.  Grandfather was rich, but he
must have had a bad heart, or he never could have cast off poor mamma;
had he adopted me, I should never have been so happy as I am now,
uncle is kind to me in his pompous, patronizing way, and dear Florence
loves me like a sister, and so I am happy.  I am my own mistress here,
and not anybody's humble servant, I sometimes find myself singing as the
birds do, because I can't help it  [Song, ``Maid with the milking pail,''
can be introduced here.]


Enter Florence and Asa through gate, R. 3 E.


Flo  Come along, cousin, come along.  I want to introduce you
to my little cousin.  [Kisses Mary.]  I've brought you a visitor,
Miss Mary Meredith, Mr. Asa Trenchard, our American cousin.
[They shake hands.]  That will do for the present.  This young gentleman
has carried off the prize by three successive shots in the bull's eye.

Mary  I congratulate you, sir, and am happy to see you.

Asa  [Shakes hands again.]  Thank you, Miss.

Flo  That will do for a beginning.

Asa  [ Aside.]  And so that is Mark Trenchard's grandchild.

Mary  Why have you left the archery, Florence?

Flo  Because, after Mr. Asa's display, I felt in no humor for shooting,
and I have some very grave business with my cousin here.

Mary  You?  Grave business?  Why I thought you never had any graver business
than being very pretty, very amiable, and very ready to be amused.

Asa  Wal, Miss, I guess the first comes natural round these diggins.  [Bows.]

Mary  You are very polite.  This is my domain, sir, and I shall be
happy to show you, that is, if you understand anything about a dairy.

Flo  Yes, by the way, do you understand anything about dairies in America?

Asa  Wal, I guess I do know something about cow juice.  [They turn
to smother laugh.]  Why, if it ain't all as bright and clean as a
fresh washed shirt just off the clover, and is this all your doin's, Miss?

Mary  Yes, sir, I milk the cows, set up the milk, superintend the churning
and make the cheese.

Asa  Wal, darn me if you ain't the first raal right down useful gal
I've seen on this side the pond.

Flo  What's that, sir?  Do you want to make me jealous?

Asa  Oh, no, you needn't get your back up, you are the right sort too,
but you must own you're small potatoes, and few in a hill compared to
a gal like that.

Flo  I'm what?

Asa  Small potatoes.

Flo  Will you be kind enough to translate that for me,
for I don't understand American yet.

Asa  Yes, I'll put it in French for you, ``petite pommes des terres.''

Flo  Ah, it's very clear now; but, cousin, do tell me what
you mean by calling me small potatoes.

Asa  Wal, you can sing and paint, and play on the pianner,
and in your own particular circle you are some pumpkins.

Flo  Some pumpkins, first I am small potatoes, and now I'm some pumpkins.

Asa  But she, she can milk cows, set up the butter, make cheese, and,
darn me, if them ain't what I call raal downright feminine accomplishments.

Flo  I do believe you are right cousin, so Mary do allow me
to congratulate you upon not being small potatoes.

Mary  Well, I must look to my dairy or all my last week's milk
will be spoiled.  Good bye, Florence, dear.  Good bye, Mr. Trenchard.
Good morning, sir.  [Exit into Cottage.]

Asa  [Following her to door.]  Good morning, Miss.  I'll call again.

Flo  Well, cousin, what do you think of her?

Asa  Ain't she a regular snorter?

Flo  A what?

Asa  Wal, perhaps I should make myself more intelligable, if I said,
a squeeler, and to think I'm keepin' that everlasting angel of a gal
out of her fortune all along of this bit of paper here.

Flo  What is that?  [Takes paper from pocket.]

Asa  Old Mark Trenchard's will.

Flo  Don't show it to me, I don't want to look at it, the fortune
should have come to Mary, she is the only relation in the direct line.

Asa  Say, cousin, you've not told her that darned property was left to me,
have you?

Flo  Do you think I had the heart to tell her of her misfortune?

Asa  Wal, darn me, if you didn't show your good sense at any rate.
[Goes up to dairy.]

Flo  Well, what are you doing, showing _your_ good sense?

Asa  Oh, you go long.

Flo  Say, cousin, I guess I've got you on a string now,
as I heard you say this morning.

Asa  Wal, what if you have, didn't I see you casting sheep's eyes
at that sailor man this morning?  Ah, I reckon I've got you on a string now.
Say, has he got that ship yet?

Flo  No, he hasn't, though I've used all my powers of persuasion
with that Lord Dundreary, and his father has so much influence with
the admiralty.

Asa  Wal, din't he drop like a smoked possum?

Flo  There you go, more American.  No, he said he was very sorry,
but he couldn't.

Asa  [Taking bottle out.]  Oh, he did, did he?  Wal, I guess he'll do
his best all the same.

Flo  I shall be missed at the archery grounds.  Will you take me back?

Asa  Like a streak of lightning.  [Offers arm and takes her to dairy.]

Flo  That's not the way.

Asa  No, of course not.  [Takes her round stage back to dairy.]

Flo  Well, but where are you going now?

Asa  I was just going round.  I say, cousin, don't you think you
could find your way back alone.

Flo  Why, what do _you_ want to do?

Asa  Wal, I just wanted to see how they make cheese is this darned country.
[Exits into dairy.]

Flo  [Laughing.]  And they call that man a savage; well,
I only wish we had a few more such savages in England.

Dun  [Without, R. 2 E.]  This way, lovely sufferer.

Flo  Ah, here's Dundreary.


[Dundreary enters with Georgina, places her in rustic chair, R.]


Dun  There, repothe yourself.

Geo  Thank you, my lord; you are so kind to me, and I am so delicate.

Flo  Yes, you look delicate, dear; how is she this morning any better?

Dun  When she recovers, she'll be better.

Flo  I'm afraid you don't take good care of her, you are so rough.

Dun  No, I'm not wruff, either.  [Sings.]
	 I'm gentle and I'm kind,
	 I'm ---- I forget the rest

Flo  Well, good morning, dear--do take care of her--good day, Dundreary.
[Exit through gate.]

Dun  Now, let me administer to your wants.  How would you like a
roast chestnut?

Geo  No, my lord, I'm too delicate.

Dun  Well, then, a peanut; there is a great deal of nourishment in peanuts.

Geo  No, thank you.

Dun  Then what can I do for you?

Geo  If you please, ask the dairy maid to let me have a seat in the dairy.
I am afraid of the draft, here.

Dun  Oh! you want to get out of the draft, do you?  Well,
you're not the only one that wants to escape the draft.
Is that the dairy on top of that stick?  [Points to pigeon house.]

Geo  No, my lord, that's the pigeon house.

Dun  What do they keep in pigeon houses?  Oh! pigeons, to be sure;
they couldn't keep donkeys up there, could they?  That's the dairy,
I suppothe?

Geo  Yes, my lord.

Dun  What do they keep in dairies?

Geo  Eggs, milk, butter and cheese.

Dun  What's the name of that animal with a head on it?  No,
I don't mean that, all animals have heads.  I mean those animals
with something growing out of their heads.

Geo  A cow?

Dun  A cow growing out of his head?

Geo  No, no, horns.

Dun  A cow!  well, that accounts for the milk and butter;
but I don't see the eggs; cows don't give eggs; then there's the cheese--
do you like cheese?

Geo  No, my lord.

Dun  Does your brother like cheese?

Geo  I have no brother.  I'm so delicate.

Dun  She's so delicate, she hasn't got a brother.  Well,
if you had a brother do you think he'd like cheese?

Geo  I don't know; do please take me to the dairy.

Dun  Well, I will see if I can get you a broiled sardine.  [Exit into dairy.]

Geo  [Jumps up.]  Oh!  I'm so glad he's gone.  I am so dreadful hungry.
I should like a plate of corn beef and cabbage, eggs and bacon,
or a slice of cold ham and pickles.

Dun  [Outside]  Thank you, thank you.

Geo  [Running back to seat.]  Here he comes.  Oh! I am so delicate.


Enter Dundreary.


Dun  I beg you pardon, Miss Georgina, but I find upon enquiry
that cows don't give sardines.  But I've arranged it with the dairy maid
so that you can have a seat by the window that overlooks the cow house
and the pig sty, and all the pretty things.

Geo  I'm afraid I'm very troublesome.

Dun  Yes, you're very troublesome, you are.  No, I mean you're
a lovely sufferer, that's the idea.  [They go up to cottage door.]


Enter Asa, running against Dundreary.


Dun  There's that damned rhinoceros again.  [Exit into cottage,
with Georgina.]

Asa  There goes that benighted aristocrat and that little toad
of a sick gal.  [Looks off.]  There he's a settling her in a chair
and covering her all over with shawls.  Ah! it's a caution,
how these women do fix our flint for us.  Here he comes.
[Takes out bottle.]  How are you, hair dye.  [Goes behind dairy.]


Enter Dundreary.


Dun  That lovely Georgina puts me in mind of that beautiful piece of poetry. 
Let me see how it goes.  The rose is red, the violet's blue.
[Asa tips his hat over his eyes.]

Dun  [Repeats.]

Asa  [Repeats business.]

Dun  [Comes down, takes off hat, looking in it.]  There must be
something alive in that hat.  [Goes up, and commences again.]
The rose is red, the violet's blue, sugar is sweet, and so is somebody,
and so is somebody else.


Asa puts yoke on Dundreary's shoulders gently.  Dundreary comes down
with pails.


Dun  I wonder what the devil that is?  [Lowers one, then the other,
they trip him up.]  Oh, I see, somebody has been fishing and caught a pail.
[Goes hopping up stage, stumbling over against spinning wheel.
Looks at yarn on stick.]  Why, what a little old man.  [Sees Asa.]
Say, Mr. Exile, what the devil is this?

Asa  That is a steam engine, and will bust in about a minute.

Dun  Well, I haven't a minute to spare, so I'll not wait till it busts.
[Crosses to R., knocks against private box, R. H., apologizes.]

Asa  Say, whiskers, I want to ask a favor of you.

