The combat began at one o'clock in the afternoon.  The weather was
beautiful.  At the first report of the cannon the First Consul left the
headquarters at the Pont de Brique, and came at a gallop, followed by his
staff, to give orders to Admiral Bruix; but soon wishing to examine for
himself the operations of the defense, and to share in directing them, he
threw himself, followed by the admiral and a few officers, into a launch
which was rowed by sailors of the Guard.  Thus the First Consul was borne
into the midst of the vessels which formed the line of defense, through a
thousand dangers, amid a tempest of shells, bombs, and cannon-balls.
With the intention of landing at Wimereux, after having passed along the
line, he ordered them to steer for the castle of Croi, saying that he
must double it.  Admiral Bruix, alarmed at the danger he was about to
incur, in vain represented to the First Consul the imprudence of doing
this.  "What shall we gain," said he, "by doubling this fort?  Nothing,
except to expose ourselves to the cannon-balls.  General, by flanking it
we will arrive as soon."  The First Consul was not of the admiral's
opinion, and insisted on doubling the fort.  The admiral, at the risk of
being reprimanded, gave contrary orders to the sailors; and the First
Consul saw himself obliged to pass behind the fort, though much irritated
and reproaching the admiral.

This soon ceased, however; for, hardly had the launch passed, when a
transport, which had doubled the castle of Croi, was crashed into and
sunk by three or four shells.

The First Consul became silent, on seeing how correct the admiral's
judgment had been; and the rest of the journey, as far as the little port
of Wimereux, was made without hindrance from him.  Arriving there, he
climbed upon the cliff to encourage the cannoneers, spoke to all of them,
patted them on the shoulder, and urged them to aim well.  "Courage, my
friends," said he, "remember you are not fighting fellows who will hold
out a long time.  Drive them back with the honors of war."  And noticing
the fine resistance and majestic maneuvers of a frigate, he asked, "Can
you believe, my children, that captain is English?  I do not think so."

The artillerymen, animated by the words of the First Consul, redoubled
their zeal and the rapidity of their fire.  One of them said, "Look at
the frigate, General; her bowsprit is going to fall."  He spoke truly,
the bowsprit was cut in two by his ball.  "Give twenty francs to that
brave man," said the First Consul to the officers who were with him.
Near the batteries of Wimereux there was a furnace to heat the cannon-
balls; and the First Consul noticed them operating the furnaces, and gave
instructions.  "That is not red enough, boys; they must be sent redder
than that, come, come."  One of them had known him, when a lieutenant of
artillery, and said to his comrades, "He understands these little matters
perfectly, as well as greater ones, you see."

That day two soldiers without arms were on the cliff noticing the
maneuvers.  They began a quarrel in this singular manner.  "Look," said
one, "do you see the Little Corporal down there?" (they were both
Picards).  "No; I don't see him."--"Do you not see him in his launch?"--
"Oh, yes, now I do; but surely he does not remember, that if anything
should strike him, it would make the whole army weep--why does he expose
himself like that?"

"Indeed, it is his place!"--"No, it's not "--"It is"--"It isn't.  Look
here, what would you do to-morrow if the Little Corporal was killed?"--
"But I tell you it is his place!"  And having no other argument on either
side, they commenced to fight with their fists.  They were separated with
much difficulty.

