"Cat's foot--fiddlestick--folderol--fudge! She's no more dead than I am.
Don't talk to me! Hold on to yourself now, Willie Jaquith, and don't
make a scene; it is a thing I cannot abide. It was Maria Jaquith that
died, over at East Corners. Small loss she was, too. None of that family
was ever worth their salt. The fool who writes for the papers put her in
'Mary,' and gave out that she died here in Elmerton just because they
brought her here to bury. They've always buried here in the family lot,
as if they were of some account. I was afraid you might hear of it,
Willie, and wrote to the last place I heard of you in, but of course it
was of no use. Mary Jaquith is alive, I tell you. Now where are you
going?"

"To mother!"

"Yes, I would! Sit down, Willie Jaquith; do as I tell you! There! feel
pretty well, hey? Your mother is blind."

"Oh, mother! mother! I have left her alone all this time."

"Exactly! Now don't go into a caniption, because it won't do any good.
Here comes Direxia with your breakfast--you eat it and then we'll go and
see your mother."

Out of doors the morning was bright and clear. Mrs. Malvina Weight,
sweeping her front chamber, with an anxious eye on the house opposite,
saw the door open and Mrs. Tree come out, followed by a tall young man.
The old lady wore the huge black velvet bonnet, surmounted by a bird of
paradise, which she had brought from Paris forty years before, and an
India shawl which had pointed a moral to the pious of Elmerton for more
than that length of time. Mrs. Weight's curiosity knew no bounds when
she saw them turn into the old Jaquith place. She would have been more
astounded if she could have heard Mrs. Tree begin at once with:

"Well, Mary Jaquith, here you sit!"

"Mrs. Tree! Is this you?" asked Mrs. Jaquith; "my dear soul, what brings
you out so early in the morning? Come in! come in! who is with you?"

"I didn't say any one was with me! Don't you go to setting double-action
ears like mine, Mary, because you are not old enough to. How are you?
Obstinate as ever?"

"Take this chair, it's the one you always like. How am I obstinate, dear
Mrs. Tree?"

"If I've asked you once to come and live with me, I've asked you fifty
times," grumbled the old lady, sitting down with a good deal of flutter
and rustle. "There I must stay, left alone at my age, with nobody but
that old goose of a Direxia Hawkes to look after me. And all because you
like to be independent. Set you up! Well, I shan't ask you again, and so
I've come to tell you, Mary Jaquith."

"Dear old friend, you forgive me, I know. You never can have thought for
a moment, seriously, that I could be a burden on your kind hands. There
surely is some one with you, Mrs. Tree! Is it Direxia? Please be seated,
whoever it is."

There was a slight sound, as of a sob checked in the outbreak. Mrs. Tree
shook her head fiercely. The blind woman rose from her seat, very pale.

"Who is it? Be kind, please, and tell me."

"I'm going to tell you," said Mrs. Tree, "if you will have patience for
two minutes, and not drive every idea out of my head with your talk. I
had a visitor last night, Mary--some one came to see me--an old
acquaintance--some one who had seen Willie lately. Now Mary Jaquith, if
you don't sit down,--well, of all the unreasonable women I ever saw!"

The blind woman had stretched out her arms with a heavenly gesture of
appeal,--of welcome, of love unutterable,--and in a moment more her
son's arms were about her and he was crying over and over again,
"Mother, mother, mother!" as if he could not have enough of that word.

FOOTNOTE:

[79] An adaptation by Grace Arlington Owen.


THE PORTRAIT

ROBERT BULWER LYTTON


     Midnight past! Not a sound of aught
       Through the silent house, but the wind at his prayers.
     I sat by the dying fire, and thought
       Of the dear dead woman upstairs.

     A night of tears! for the gusty rain
       Had ceased, but the eaves were dripping yet;
     And the moon looked forth, as though in pain,
       With her face all white and wet:

     Nobody with me, my watch to keep,
       But the friend of my bosom, the man I love:
     And grief had sent him fast to sleep
       In the chamber up above.

     Nobody else, in the country place
       All round, that knew of my loss beside,
     But the good young priest with the Raphael-face,
       Who confessed her when she died.

     The good young priest is of gentle nerve,
       And my grief had moved him beyond control;
     For his lips grew white, as I could observe,
       When he speeded her parting soul.

     I sat by the dreary hearth alone;
       I thought of the pleasant days of yore.
     I said, "The staff of my life is gone;
       The woman I loved is no more.

     "On her cold, dead bosom my portrait lies
       Which next to her heart she used to wear,--
     Haunting it o'er with her tender eyes
       When my own face was not there.

     "It is set all round with rubies red,
      And pearls which a Peri might have kept;
     For each ruby there my heart hath bled;
       For each pearl my eyes have wept."

     And I said, "The thing is precious to me,
       They will bury her soon in the church-yard clay;
     It lies on her heart, and lost must be,
       If I do not take it away."

     I lighted my lamp at the dying flame,
       And crept up the stairs that creaked from fright,
     Till into the chamber of death I came,
       Where she lay all in white.

     The moon shone over her winding-sheet.
       There, stark she lay on her carven bed;
     Seven burning tapers about her feet,
       And seven about her head.

     As I stretched my hand, I held my breath;
       I turned as I drew the curtains apart;
     I dared not look on the face of death,
       I knew where to find her heart.

     I thought, at first, as my touch fell there,
       It had warmed that heart to life, with love;
     For the thing I touched was warm, I swear,
       And I could feel it move.

     'Twas the hand of a man, that was moving slow
       O'er the heart of the dead,--from the other side;
     And at once the sweat broke over my brow,
       "Who is robbing the corpse?" I cried.

     Opposite me, by the tapers' light,
       The friend of my bosom, the man I loved,
     Stood over the corpse, and all as white,
       And neither of us moved.

     "What do you here, my friend?" ... The man
       Looked first at me, and then at the dead.
     "There is a portrait here," he began;
       "There is. It is mine," I said.

     Said the friend of my bosom, "Yours, no doubt,
       The portrait was, till a month ago,
     When this suffering angel took that out,
       And placed mine there, I know."

     "This woman, she loved me well," said I.
       "A month ago," said my friend to me;
     "And in your throat," I groaned, "you lie!"
       He answered ... "Let us see."

     "Enough!" I returned, "let the dead decide:
       And whosesoever the portrait prove,
     His shall it be, when the cause is tried,
       Where Death is arraigned by Love."

     We found the portrait there in its place;
       We opened it, by the tapers' shine;
     The gems were all unchanged; the face
       Was--neither his nor mine.

     "One nail drives out another, at least!
       The face of the portrait there," I cried,
     "Is our friend's, the Raphael-faced young priest,
       Who confessed her when she died."

     The setting is all of rubies red,
       And pearls which a Peri might have kept;
     For each ruby there my heart hath bled;
       For each pearl my eyes have wept.


THE TELL-TALE HEART

A MURDERER'S CONFESSION

EDGAR ALLAN POE


True!--nervous--very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why
will you say that I am mad? Hearken! and observe how healthily--how
calmly I can tell you the whole story.

It is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain; but once
conceived, it haunted me day and night. Object, there was none. Passion,
there was none. I loved the old man. He had never wronged me. He had
never given me insult. For his gold I had no desire. I think it was his
eye! yes, it was this! One of his eyes resembled that of a vulture--a
pale-blue eye, with a film over it. Whenever it fell upon me, my blood
ran cold; and so by degrees--very gradually--I made up my mind to take
the life of the old man, and thus rid my life of him forever.

Now, this is the point. You fancy me mad. Madmen know nothing. But you
should have seen me. You should have seen how wisely I proceeded--with
what caution--with what foresight--with what dissimulation I went to
work! I was never kinder to the old man than during the whole week
before I killed him. And every night, about midnight, I turned the latch
of his door and opened it--oh, so gently! and then, when I had made an
opening sufficient for my head, I put in a dark lantern, all closed,
closed so that no light shone out, and then I thrust in my head. Oh, you
would have laughed to see how cunningly I thrust it in! I moved it
slowly--very, very slowly, so that I might not disturb the old man's
sleep. It took me an hour to place my whole head within the opening so
far that I could see him as he lay upon the bed. Ha!--would a madman
have been so wise as this? And then, when my head was well in the room,
I undid the lantern cautiously--oh, so cautiously--cautiously (for the
hinges creaked) I undid it just so much that a single thin ray fell upon
the vulture eye. And this I did for seven long nights--every night just
at midnight--but I found the eye always closed; and so it was impossible
to do the work; for it was not the old man who vexed me, but his evil
eye.

Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the
door. To think that there I was, opening the door, little by little, and
he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts. I fairly chuckled
at the idea; and perhaps he heard me; for he moved on the bed suddenly,
as if startled. Now you may think that I drew back--but no. His room was
as black as pitch with the thick darkness (for the shutters were close
fastened, through fear of robbers), and so I knew that he could not see
the opening of the door, and I kept pushing it on steadily, steadily.

I had my head in, and was about to open the lantern, when my thumb
slipped upon the tin fastening, and the old man sprang up in the bed
crying out--"Who's there?"

I kept quite still and said nothing. For a whole hour I did not move a
muscle, and in the meantime I did not hear him lie down.

Presently I heard a slight groan, and I knew it was the groan of mortal
terror. It was not a groan of pain or of grief--oh, no!--it was the low,
stifled sound that arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged
with awe. I knew the sound well. I knew that he had been lying awake
ever since the first slight noise, when he had turned in the bed. His
fears had been ever since growing upon him. He had been trying to fancy
them causeless, but could not.

When I had waited a long time, very patiently, without hearing him lie
down, I resolved to open a little--a very, very little crevice in the
lantern. So I opened it--you cannot imagine how stealthily,
stealthily--until at length a single dim ray, like the thread of the
spider, shot from out the crevice and fell upon the vulture eye.

It was open--wide, wide open--and I grew furious as I gazed upon it. I
saw it with perfect distinctness--all a dull blue, with a hideous veil
over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones; but I could see
nothing else of the old man's face or person; for I had directed the ray
as if by instinct, precisely upon the spot.

Now, there came to my ears a low, dull, quick sound, such as a watch
makes when enveloped in cotton. I knew that sound well, too. It was the
beating of the old man's heart. It increased my fury, as the beating of
a drum stimulates the soldier into courage.

But even yet I refrained and kept still. I scarcely breathed; I held the
lantern motionless. I tried how steadily I could maintain the ray upon
the eye. Meantime the hellish tattoo of the heart increased. It grew
quicker and quicker, and louder and louder every instant. The old man's
terror must have been extreme! It grew louder, I say, louder every
moment! do you mark me well? I have told you that I am nervous; so I am.
And now at the dead hour of the night, amid the dreadful silence of that
old house, so strange a noise as this excited me to uncontrollable
terror. Yet for some minutes longer I refrained and stood still. But the
beating grew louder, louder! I thought the heart must burst.

And now a new anxiety seized me--the sound could be heard by a neighbor!
The old man's hour had come! With a loud yell I threw open the lantern
and leaped into the room. He shrieked once--once only. In an instant I
dragged him to the floor, and pulled the heavy bed over him. I then
smiled gayly to find the deed so far done. But for many minutes the
heart beat on with a muffled sound. This, however, did not vex me; it
would not be heard through the wall. At length it ceased. The old man
was dead. I removed the bed and examined the corpse. I placed my hand
upon the heart and held it there many minutes. There was no pulsation.
He was stone dead. His eye would trouble me no more.

If you still think me mad, you will think so no longer when I describe
the wise precautions I took for the concealment of the body. The night
waned, and I worked hastily, but in silence. First of all I dismembered
the corpse.

I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber and
deposited all between the scantlings. I then replaced the boards so
cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye--not even his--could have
detected anything wrong.

When I had made an end of these labors it was four o'clock--still dark
as midnight. As the bell sounded the hour, there came a knocking at the
street door. I went down to open it with a light heart--for what had I
now to fear? Then entered three men who introduced themselves, with
perfect suavity, as officers of the police. A shriek had been heard by
a neighbor during the night; suspicion of foul play had been aroused;
information had been lodged at the police office, and the officers had
been deputed to search the premises.

I smiled--for what had I to fear? I bade the gentlemen welcome. The
shriek, I said, was my own in a dream. The old man, I mentioned, was
absent in the country. I took my visitors all over the house. I bade
them search--search well. I led them at length to his chamber. I showed
them his treasures, secure, undisturbed. In the enthusiasm of my
confidence I brought chairs into the room, and desired them here to rest
from their fatigues, while I myself, in the wild audacity of my perfect
triumph, placed my own seat upon the very spot beneath which reposed the
corpse of the victim.

The officers were satisfied. My manner had convinced them. I was
singularly at ease. But ere long I felt myself getting pale and wished
them gone. My head ached, and I fancied a ringing in my ears; but still
they sat and still chatted. The ringing became more distinct; it
continued and gained definitiveness--until at length I found that the
noise was not within my ears.

No doubt I grew very pale; but I talked more fluently and with a
heightened voice. Yet the sound increased--and what could I do? It was a
low, dull, quick sound--much such a sound as a watch makes when
enveloped in cotton. I gasped for breath--and yet the officers heard it
not. I talked more quickly--more vehemently; but the noise steadily
increased. Why would they not be gone? I paced the floor to and fro with
heavy strides, as if excited to fury by the observations of the men--but
the noise steadily increased. O God! what could I do? I foamed--I
raved--I swore! I swung the chair upon which I had been sitting, and
grated it upon the boards, but the noise arose over all and continually
increased. It grew louder--louder--louder. And still the men chatted
pleasantly and smiled. Was it possible they heard not?

They heard!--they suspected!--they knew!--they were making a mockery of
my horror! this I thought, and this I think. But anything was better
than this agony! Anything was more tolerable than this derision! I could
bear those hypocritical smiles no longer! I felt that I must scream or
die!--and now--again!--hark! louder! louder! louder! louder!

"Villains!" I shrieked, "dissemble no more! I admit the deed--tear up
the planks! here! here! it is the beating of his hideous heart!"


THE UNCLE

H. G. BELL


     I had an uncle once--a man
       Of threescore years and three,
     And when my reason's dawn began,
       He'd take me on his knee,
     And often talk, whole winter nights,
       Things that seemed strange to me.

     He was a man of gloomy mood,
       And few his converse sought;
     But, it was said, in solitude
       His conscience with him wrought;
     And then, before his mental eye,
       Some hideous vision brought.

     There was not one in all the house
       Who did not fear his frown,
     Save I, a little, careless child,
       Who gamboled up and down,
     And often peeped into his room,
       And plucked him by his gown.

     I was an orphan and alone--
       My father was his brother,
     And all their lives I knew that they
       Had fondly loved each other;
     And in my uncle's room there hung
       The picture of my mother.

     There was a curtain over it--
       'Twas in a darkened place,
     And few or none had ever looked
       Upon my mother's face;
     Or seen her pale, expressive smile
       Of melancholy grace.

     One night--I do remember well,
       The wind was howling high,
     And through the ancient corridors
       It sounded drearily;
     I sat and read in that old hall;
       My uncle sat close by.

     I read--but little understood
       The words upon the book,
     For with a sidelong glance I marked
       My uncle's fearful look,
     And saw how all his quivering frame
       In strong convulsions shook.

     A silent terror o'er me stole,
       A strange, unusual dread;
     His lips were white as bone--his eyes
       Sunk far down in his head;
     He gazed on me, but 'twas the gaze
       Of the unconscious dead.

     Then suddenly he turned him round,
       And drew aside the veil
     That hung before my mother's face;
       Perchance my eyes might fail,
     But ne'er before that face to me
       Had seemed so ghastly pale.

     "Come hither, boy!" my uncle said--
       I started at the sound;
     'Twas choked and stifled, in his throat,
       And hardly utterance found;
     "Come hither, boy!" then fearfully
       He cast his eyes around.

     "That lady was thy mother once--
       Thou wert her only child;
     O God! I've seen her when she held
       Thee in her arms and smiled--
     She smiled upon thy father, boy,
       'Twas that which drove me wild!

     "He was my brother, but his form
       Was fairer far than mine;
     I grudged not that;--he was the prop
       Of our ancestral line,
     And manly beauty was of him
       A token and a sign.

     "Boy! I had loved her too--nay, more,
       'Twas I who loved her first;
     For months--for years--the golden thought
       Within my soul was nursed;
     He came--he conquered--they were wed--
       My air-blown bubble burst!

     "Then on my mind a shadow fell,
       And evil hopes grew rife;
     The damning thought stuck in my heart,
       And cut me like a knife,
     That she, whom all my days I loved,
       Should be another's wife!

     "I left my home--I left the land--
       I crossed the raging sea;
     In vain--in vain--where'er I turned,
       My memory went with me;
     My whole existence, night and day,
       In memory seemed to be.

     "I came again, I found them here--
       Thou'rt like thy father, boy--
     He doted on that pale face there,
       I've seen them kiss and toy--
     I've seen him locked in her fond arms,
       Wrapped in delirious joy!

     "By Heaven! it was a fearful thing,
       To see my brother now,
     And mark the placid calm that sat
       Forever on his brow,
     That seemed in bitter scorn to say,
       I am more loved than thou!

     "He disappeared--draw nearer, child!--
       He died--no one knew how;
     The murdered body ne'er was found,
       The tale is hushed up now;
     But there was one who rightly guessed
       The hand that struck the blow.

     "It drove her mad--yet not his death--
       No--not his death alone;
     For she had clung to hope, when all
       Knew well that there was none;
     No, boy! it was a sight she saw
       That froze her into stone!

     "I am thy uncle, child--why stare
       So frightfully aghast?--
     The arras waves, but know'st thou not
       'Tis nothing but the blast?
     I, too, have had my fears like these,
       But such vain fears are past.

     "I'll show thee what thy mother saw--
       I feel 'twill ease my breast,
     And this wild tempest-laden night
       Suits with the purpose best.
     Come hither--thou hast often sought
       To open this old chest.

     "It has a secret spring; the touch
       Is known to me alone;
     Slowly I raise the lid, and now--
       What see you, that you groan
     So heavily? That thing is but
       A bare-ribbed skeleton."

     A sudden crash--the lid fell down--
       Three strides he backward gave,
     "Oh, God! it is my brother's self
       Returning from the grave!
     His grasp of lead is on my throat--
       Will no one help or save?"

     That night they laid him on his bed,
       In raving madness tossed;
     He gnashed his teeth, and with wild oaths
       Blasphemed the Holy Ghost;
     And, ere the light of morning broke,
       A sinner's soul was lost.


VI

SCENES FROM THE DRAMA


     The selections in this division are cut, condensed, and adapted for
     practical use as dramas or monologues. In some cases lines of the
     text as well as explanations are written in to connect the scenes
     for clearer unity. For scenes from Shakespeare and readings from
     the Bible, already universally printed and accessible, see the
     indexes and directions as to the omissions of lines in various
     cuttings in Fulton and Trueblood's "Choice Readings," published by
     Messrs. Ginn & Company.


THE BELLS

HENRY L. WILLIAMS


ACT III, SCENE I


     CHARACTERS: Hans Matthis, keeper of "the Merry Andrew"; Dr. Frantz,
     the magnetizer; the Judge.

     SCENE: Alsatia, in a hamlet at the foot of the mountains;
     Christmas, 1868; a room in an inn. Matthis, a prosperous
     burgomaster, recalls with friends the murder of a Polish Jew,
     fifteen years before. He wonders that the murderer has never been
     apprehended. The sound of sleigh bells is heard and the apparition
     of the Jew appears. Matthis is prostrated by the incident and
     consults a mesmerist, Dr. Frantz, who assures him that he has power
     to compel a criminal to divulge his secret thought. Matthis
     isolates himself and sleeps alone to avoid eavesdropping. On the
     night of his daughter's wedding he makes payment of her dowry, and
     as the money is laid on the table a sleigh bell falls from among
     the gold coins. He seeks his own room, falls asleep and dreams that
     he is before the court and that Dr. Frantz is mesmerizing him.


_Enter_ MATTHIS

MAT. Happy fellow! happy fellows all of them! A man may play against
fate if he only prepares his cards--I hold none but good ones in my
hand. Ha, ha! They have their skins full of my best wine, and go home
happy as kings. Ha, ha! there'll be some funny flounderings in the snow
before they reach home. It's singular what magic is melted into
wine--one draught, and all the clouds are sunshine. It's dark! it's very
dark--and, though the wind has fallen, the fine snow sweeps down the
road like a train of phantoms. All is well! You may shake hands with
yourself, Hans Matthis! you have triumphed over both the world and
Heaven! I am so sleepy! If I rest here a--a moment? Ah! One is always
drowsy in cold weather. No one can hear me if I speak--in a dream--no
one--the Jew!--dreams, nonsense! [_Sleeps_.]

_Enter_ DR. FRANTZ _and the_ JUDGE

DR. F. My lord, it is the will of this tribunal which leads me here, not
mine.

JUDGE. Can you place that man in the mesmeric sleep?

DR. F. I can. But he is strong-willed, and the task may be hard.

MAT. No, no! I have no fear. [_Shudders; aside_.] Matthis, if you fall
asleep you will be lost!

DR. F. [_to_ MATTHIS]. I will that you should sleep! [_Makes magnetic
passes while looking at_ MATTHIS.]

MAT. No, no!

DR. F. It is my will. He sleeps. What must I ask?

JUDGE. What he did on Christmas Eve, fifteen years ago.

DR. F. I command you to be on the night of December the
four-and-twentieth, year 1853.

MAT. [_softly_]. Yes.

DR. F. What is the hour?

MAT. It is half-past eleven o'clock.

DR. F. Speak! It is my will!

MAT. The customers have left the inn. Catherine and little Annette have
gone to bed. Kaspar comes in and says--the fire in the lime-kiln is
drawing well. I answer: "Very good. Go to bed. I'll go have a look at
it." He goes up stairs. I am alone with the Polish Jew, who is warming
himself at the stove. All are asleep in the village. All I heard was the
sleigh-bell jingling on the Polander's horse in the shed. There was two
feet of snow on the ground. I thought of my want of money. If I did not
have three thousand francs by the end of the month, the inn would be
taken from me. I thought--no one is on the road--'tis night, and the
Polander will be all alone in the snow. He is well-built, and strong.
[_As if he saw the man before him._] I warrant he will hold out stoutly
if any one touches him. Ah! he looks at me with his little gray eyes. I
must do my work! Yes. I shall risk it! I go out. It is black as ink,
except for the falling snow. There would be no footsteps in the road. I
search his sledge--he might have had pistols! but there are none. I will
do it! Hark! no--not a sound, save a child crying--a goat bleating--and
the tramp overhead of the Polander in his chamber. I went in. He comes
down, and puts six francs on the table. I give him change. He looks a
long look at me, and asks how far to Mootzig? Four short leagues, say
I--and wish him a merry journey! He answers: "God bless you!" [_Pause._]
Ho, ho! the belt! the money-belt! He goes--he has gone! [MATTHIS
_stooping, goes a few steps as if following a trail._] The axe--where is
the axe? Ah! here--behind the door! How cold it is! Still falls the
snow, and far above, I see the shooting stars. Haste, Matthis, for the
prize--the money-belt! I follow--out of the village--to the open--how
cold it is! [_Shivers._] Yonder looms up the big bridge--there ripples
the rivulet out of sight under the snow. How the dogs bayed, on Daniel's
farm! and the blacksmith's forge glowed red on the hill-side like a
setting sun. Matthis, slay not the man! You are mad! You will be rich,
and your wife and child will want for nothing! The Polander had no
business to flaunt his money-belt in your face, when you owe money! The
bridge! I am already at the bridge! And no one! how still it is! how
cold! though I am warm--Hark! one o'clock by the village church! and the
moon is rising! Oh! the Jew has passed, and I am right glad of it! No!
what do I hear? the bell! the sleigh-bell. I shall be rich, I shall be
rich, rich, rich! [_The bell tinkles._] Down! I have you, dog of a Jew!
He has his score settled! Not a finger stirs. All is over! Ah! Away
rushes the horse with the sledge! but silently--the bell has been shaken
off! Hark, hark--a step! No! only the wind and a fall of snow. Quick,
quick, the money-belt! 'tis full! it bursts with my eager clutch! ah!
the coins have fallen! here, here and there! And now for home! no,
no--the body--it must not tell its story! [_Rolls up the mantle and puts
it on his shoulder._] Hush! the kiln, the lime-kiln. It is heavy! Into
the fire. Jew! fire and flames for the Jew! Oh! what eyes! with what
eyes does he regard me! Be a man, Matthis, look! look boldly! not even
his bones are left! Now, away with the belt--pocket the gold--that's
right! No one will ever know. The proofs are gone forever!

DR. F. What more shall he be asked?

JUDGE. No more. Wake him and let him see himself. [MATTHIS _sits in the
chair as at first_.]

DR. F. Awake! I will it.

MAT. Where am I? Ah, yes--what have I done? Wretch! I have confessed it
all! I am a lost man!

JUDGE. You stand self-condemned! Inasmuch as Hans Matthis, on the
morning of the 25th of December, 1853, between the hours of midnight and
one o'clock, committed the crime of murder and highway robbery upon the
person of Baruch Koweski, with malice prepense, we condemn him to be
hanged by the neck till death shall ensue. And may Heaven have mercy on
his soul! Usher, let the executioner appear and take charge of the
condemned. [_Curtain._


THE LADY OF LYONS

ROBERT BULWER LYTTON

ACT II, SCENE I


     CHARACTERS: Pauline Deschappelles, the beautiful daughter and
     heiress of an aspiring merchant of Lyons, France; Claude Melnotte,
     the gardener's son, madly in love with Pauline.

     Pauline aspires to an alliance with some prince or nobleman.
     Melnotte in the hope of winning her uses his small inheritance in
     educating himself and becomes an accomplished scholar, a skillful
     musician, a poet, and an artist. He pours forth his worship in a
     poem, but his suit is rejected and he is subjected to violent
     insult. Stung to remorse he enters into a plot to personate a
     prince, woo her in that guise, and take her as a bride to his
     mother's cottage on their wedding night. And, in the faint hope of
     winning her as a prince and keeping her love as an untitled man
     after he has revealed his identity, Melnotte enters into a binding
     compact.

     Scene: The garden of M. Deschappelles' house at Lyons.


_Enter_ MELNOTTE _as the Prince of Como, leading_ PAULINE

MEL. You can be proud of your connection with one who owes his position
to merit--not birth.

PAULINE. Why, yes; but still--

MEL. Still what, Pauline?

PAULINE. There is something glorious in the heritage of command. A man
who has ancestors is like a representative of the past.

MEL. True; but, like other representatives, nine times out of ten he is
a silent member. Ah, Pauline! not to the past, but to the future, looks
true nobility, and finds its blazon in posterity.

PAULINE. You say this to please me, who have no ancestors; but you,
prince, must be proud of so illustrious a race!

