Produced by Charlene Taylor, Jonathan Ingram, Keith Edkins
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Library of Early
Journals.)


Transcriber's note: A few typographical errors have been corrected: they
are listed at the end of the text.

{445}

NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 184.]
Saturday, May 7, 1853.
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                            Page
    Old Popular Poetry: "Adam Bell, Clym of the Clough,
      and William of Clowdesly," by J. Payne Collier                   445
    Witchcraft, by Rev. H. T. Ellacombe                                446
    Spring, &c., by Thomas Keightley                                   448
    Notes and Queries on Bacon's Essays, No. III., by
      P. J. F. Gantillon, B.A.                                         448
    Shakspeare Correspondence, by S. W. Singer, Cecil
      Harbottle, &c.                                                   449
    MINOR NOTES:--Local Rhymes, Norfolk--"Hobson's
      Choice"--Khond Fable--Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton,
      Bart.--Anagrams                                                  452

  QUERIES:--
    Seal of William d'Albini                                           452
    Forms of Judicial Oath, by Henry H. Breen                          453
    MINOR QUERIES:--Passage in Boerhaave--Story of
      Ezzelin--The Duke--General Sir Dennis Pack--Haveringemere--Old
      Pictures of the Spanish Armada--Bell
      Inscription--Loselerius Villerius, &c.--The
      Vinegar Plant--Westminster Parishes--Harley Family--Lord
      Cliff--Enough--Archbishop Magee--Carpets
      at Rome--Nursery Rhymes--Gloves at Fairs--Mr.
      Caryl or Caryll--Early Reaping-machines                          453
    MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--"Diary of a
      Self-Observer"--Jockey--Boyle Lectures                           456

  REPLIES:--
    The Discovery and Recovery of MSS., by Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie     456
   "The Whippiad"                                                      457
    Spontaneous Combustion, by Shirley Hibberd                         458
    Major-General Lambert, by Edgar MacCulloch                         459
    The "Salt-peter-man," by J. Deck                                   460
    Metrical Psalms and Hymns, by J. Sansom                            460
    The Sign of the Cross in the Greek Church                          461
    PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES:--New Developing
      Fluid--Photographic Tent--Mr. Wilkinson's simple
      Mode of levelling Cameras--Antiquarian Photographic
      Club                                                             462
    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Erroneous Forms of
      Speech: Mangel Wurzel--The Whetstone--Charade--Parochial
      Libraries--Judge Smith--Church Catechism--Charade
      attributed to Sheridan--Gesmas and
      Desmas--Lode--Epitaphs imprecatory--Straw-bail--How
      to stain Deal--Detached Belfry Towers                            463

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, &c.                                                465
    Books and Odd volumes wanted                                       465
    Notices to Correspondents                                          466
    Advertisements                                                     466

       *       *       *       *       *


Notes.

OLD POPULAR POETRY: "ADAM BELL, CLYM OF THE CLOUGH, AND WILLIAM OF
CLOWDESLY."

I have very recently become possessed of a curious printed fragment, which
is worth notice on several accounts, and will be especially interesting to
persons who, like myself, are lovers of our early ballad poetry. It is part
of an unknown edition of the celebrated poem relating to the adventures of
Adam Bell, Clym of the Clough, and William of Cloudesly.

There are (as many of your readers will be aware from Ritson's small
volume, _Pieces of Ancient Popular Poetry_, 8vo. 1791) two old editions of
_Adam Bell, &c._, one printed by William Copland, without date, and the
other by James Roberts in 1605. The edition by Copland must have preceded
that by Roberts by forty or fifty years, and may have come out between 1550
and 1560; the only known copy of it is among the Garrick Plays (at least it
was so when I saw it) in the British Museum. The re-impression by Roberts
is not very uncommon, and I think that more than one copy of it is at
Oxford.

When Copland printed the poem, he did not enter it at Stationers' Hall;
comparatively few of his publications, generally of a free, romantic, or
ludicrous character, were licensed, and he was three times fined for not
first obtaining the leave of the Company. Nevertheless, we do find an entry
of a "book" called "Adam Bell," &c., among the memoranda belonging to the
year 1557-8, but it was made at the instance, not of Copland, but of John
Kynge, in this form:

    "To John Kynge, to prynte this boke called Adam Bell, &c., and for his
    lycense he geveth to the howse"--

What sum he gave is not stated. Again, we meet with another notice of it in
the same registers, under the date of 1581-2, when John Charlwood was
interested in the undertaking. I mention these two entries principally
because neither Ritson nor Percy were acquainted with them; but they may be
seen among the extracts published by the Shakspeare Society in 1848 and
1849. {446}

No impressions by Kynge or Charlwood having come down to us, we have no
means of knowing whether they availed themselves of the permission granted
at Stationers' Hall; and, unless I am deceived, the fragment which
occasions this Note is not from the presses of either of them, and is of an
earlier date than the time of Copland; the type is much better, and less
battered, than that of Copland; at the same time it has a more antique
look, and in several respects, which I am about to point out, it furnishes
a better text than that given by Ritson from Copland's edition, or by Percy
with the aid of his folio manuscript. I am sorry to say that it only
consists of a single sheet; but this is nearly half the production, and it
comprises the whole of the second, and two pages of the third "fit." The
first line and the last of the portion in my hands, testify to the greater
antiquity and purity of the text there found; it begins--

 "These gates be shut so wonderly well;"

and it ends,

 "Tyll they came to the kynge's palays."

It is "_wonderous_ well" in Copland's impression, and palace is there spelt
"pallace," a more modern form of the word than _palays_. Just afterwards we
have, in my fragment,

 "Streyght comen from oure kyng,"

instead of Copland's

 "Streyght _come nowe_ from our king."

_Comen_ is considerably more ancient than "come nowe;" so that, without
pursuing this point farther, I may say that my fragment is not only an
older specimen of typography than Copland's impression, but older still in
its words and phraseology, a circumstance that communicates to it
additional interest. I subjoin a few various readings, most, if not all, of
them presenting a superior text than is to be met with elsewhere. Speaking
of the porter at the gate of Carlisle, we are told--

 "And to the gate faste he throng."

Copland's edition omits _faste_, and it is not met with in Percy. In
another place a rhyme is lost by an awkward transposition, "he saide" for
_sayd he_; and farther on, in Copland's text, we have mention of

 "The justice with a quest of squyers."

instead of "a quest of _swerers_," meaning of course the jury who had
condemned Cloudesly "there hanged to be." Another blunder committed by
Copland is the omission of a word, so that a line is left without its
corresponding rhyme:

 "Then Clowdysle cast hys eyen aside,
    And sawe his two bretheren _stande_
  At the corner of the market-place,
    With theyr good bowes bent in theyr hand."

The word I print in Italics is entirely wanting in Copland. It is curious
to see how Percy (_Reliques_, i. 157., ed. 1775) gets over the difficulty
by following no known copy of the original:

 "Then Cloudesle cast his eyen asyde,
    And saw hys brethren twaine
  At a corner of the market-place,
    Ready the justice for to slaine."

Cloudesly is made to exclaim, in all editions but mine, "I see comfort,"
instead of "I see _good_ comfort." However, it would perhaps be wearisome
to press this matter farther, and I have said enough to set a few of your
readers, zealous in such questions, rummaging their stores to ascertain
whether any text with which they are acquainted, tallies with that I have
above quoted.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

       *       *       *       *       *


WITCHCRAFT.

Observing that you have lately admitted some articles on witchcraft, it may
be interesting to make a note of two or three original papers, out of some
in my possession, which were given to me many years ago by an old general
officer, who served in the American war, and brought them with him to
England about 1776. I send exact copies from the originals.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

Whereas several persons, being by authority co[=m]itted to Ipswich Goall
for fellony and witchcraft, and order being given that search should be
made carefully upon their bodyes, to see if there nothing appeared
preternaturall thereon: for that end, on July y^e 4^th, 1692, a Jurie of
one man and eight women were su[=m]oned to attend, and sworne to make
dilligent search, and to give a true account of what they found, viz^t.--

  Doctor Philemon Dance,
  Mrs. Joha[=n]a Diamond, midwife,
  Mrs. Grace Graves,
  Mrs. Mary Belcher,
  Mrs. Gennet Pengery,
  Ann Lovell,
  Francis Davis,
  Mary Browne,

Who, after search made in particular, give this account, viz^t.--Upon the
body of goodwife Estue they find three unnaturall teats, one under left
arme, and one on the back side of her sholder-blade, one near to her secret
parts on one thigh, which, being pricked throw with a pin, remained without
sense, and did not bleed.

2. Upon y^e veiwing and searching y^e body of Sarah Cloice, there was
nothing unnaturall appeared on her.

3. Upon searching y^e body of Mrs. Bradbury, there was nothing appeared
unnaturall on her, {447} only her brest were biger than usuall, and her
nipples larger than one y^t did not give suck, though her body was much
pined and wasted, yet her brests seemed full.

4. Upon y^e searching y^e body of y^e wife of Giles Cory, there was
severall darke moulds, one of which was upon one of her buttocks, and being
pricked with a pin, it was without sence, and did not bleed.

5. Upon y^e searching y^e body of Widow Hoer, nothing appeared on her
unnaturall, only her body verry much scratched, and on her head a strange
lock of haire, verry long, and differing in color from y^e rest on her
head, and matted or tangled together, which she said was a widow's lock,
and said, if it were cutt off she should die.

6. Upon searching y^e body of Rachell Clenton, there was found an
unnaturall teat on one side, something lower than just under her arme,
which teat having a pin thrust throw it she was not senceable of, till by
scratching her side, pricked her fingers with y^e pin y^t was then in y^e
teat; neither did y^e teat bleed.

There was also ordered, with ye foresaid Doct^r, four other men, viz^t, Mr.
Har. Symonds, Samuel Graves, Sen^r, Thomas Knewlton, and John Pinder, to
search y^e body of Giles Cory, and they returned y^t they, having searched
him, found nothing unnaturall upon him.

The truth of which I heare attest.
(Signed) THO^S WADE, J.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Province of Massachusettes Bay,
  New England, Essex.

Anno R. R. et Reginæ Gulielmi et Mariæ Angliæ, &c. quarto, annoqu Dom.
1692.

The Jurors for our Sov^n Lord and Ladye the King and Queen present--

That Abigail Barker, wife of Ebenezer Barker of Andiver, in the County of
Essex aforesaid, about two years since, at and in the town of Andiver
aforesaid, wickedly, maliciously, and felloniously, a covenant with the
Devill did make, and signed the Devill's Booke, and by the Devill was
baptized, and renounced her former Christian baptism; and gave herselfe up
to the Devill to serve him, and for the Devill to be her lord and master;
by which wicked and diabollicall couvenant, shee the said Abigaill Barker
is become a detestable witch, contrary to the peace of our Soveraigne Lord
and Lady the King and Queene, their crowne and dignity, and the law in that
case made and provided.

_Sep., '92._ The examination and confession of Abigail Barker, taken before
John Hawthorn, Esq., and other their Majesties Justices:

_Q._ How long have you been in the snare of the Devil?

_A._ Not above two yeares and a half.

_Q._ At what place were you first overtaken?

_A._ I am at present very much bewildered.--But a little after she said as
followes:--About two yeare and a half agoe she was in great discontent of
mynd, her husband being abroad, and she at home alone; at which tyme a
black man appeared to her, and brought a book with him, to which he put her
finger and made a black mark. She saith, her memory now failes her now more
than ordinary; but said she gave herself up to the Devil to serve him, and
he was her lord and master; and the Devil set a mark upon her legg, which
mark is black and blue, and she apprehends is a witch mark; and said that
she is a witch, and thinks that mark is the cause of her afflicting
persons, though she thought nothing of it then till afterwards she heard of
others having a mark upon them. She sayes, that some tyme after this the
black man carryed her singly upon a pole to 5-mile pond, and there were 4
persones more upon another pole, viz. Mistriss Osgood, Goody Wilson, Goody
Wardwell, Goody Tyler, and Hanneh Tyler. And when she came to the pond the
Devil made a great light, and took her up and dypt her face in the pond,
and she felt the water, and the Devil told her he was her lord and master,
and she must serve him for ever. He made her renounce her former baptisme,
and carryed her back upon the pole. She confesses she has afflicted the
persones that accused her, viz. Sprague, Lester, and Sawdy, both at home
and in the way comeing downe. The manner thus:--The Devil does it in her
shape, and she consents unto, and clinches her hands together, and sayes
the Devil cannot doe it in her shape without her consent. She sayes she was
at a meeting at Moses Tyler's house, in company with Mistriss Osgood, Goody
Wilson, Goody Tyler, and Hanah Tyler. She said the mark above was on her
left legg by her shin. It is about two yeare agoe since she was baptized.
She said that all this was true; and set her hand to the original as a true
confession. _Noate_, that before this her confession she was taken dumb,
and took Mr. Epps about the neck and pulled him down, thereby showing him
how the black man bowed her down; and for one houre's tyme could not open
her lips.

I, underwritten, being appointed by authority to take the above
examination, doe testify upon oath taken in court, that this is a true
coppy of the substance of it to the best of my knowledge.

WM. MURRAY.

6th July, 1692/3.

