On Wednesday the Society held its 2,187th meeting. There was some
regrettable rowdiness during Private Business, and A. MOSELEY
(Collegers) had to be ejected for asking too many questions. Members
must not bring bags of gooseberries into the debates.

In Public Business the motion was:--

"_That in the opinion of this House Science is better than Sport._"

D. LLOYD GEORGE, Proposer (School House), said that Science had won the
War, and quoted Wireless Telegraphy and Daylight Saving to prove this.
The most successful Generals had had a scientific training. His uncle
had met a General who knew algebra and used it at the Battle of the
Marne. Only two first-class cricketers had ever been in the Cabinet.
Three scientists had. The earth went round the sun. The moon went round
the earth. Rivers flowed into the ocean.

    An improving speaker, who is inclined to be carried away by his
    enthusiasm. Too many metaphors.

H. ASQUITH, Opposer (Collegers), said that the speech of the hon.
Proposer was a tissue of fabrications, as ineffective as they were
insincere. Never in the whole course of his career had he encountered a
subterfuge so transparent, a calumny so shameless as the attempt of the
Hon. Prop., he might say the calculated and cynical attempt of the Hon.
Prop., to seduce from their faith the tenacious acolytes of Sport by
the now threadbare recital of the dubious and, on his own showing, the
anæmic enticements of Science. The War had proved that Science was no
good.

    This speaker is steadily improving, but he has a tendency to a
    "fatal fluency," and he must beware of high-sounding phrases.
    Also too many passages in his speech sounded like quotations.

A. BONAR LAW, Seconder (Commoners), said that the War had proved that
Sport was no good. Gas had been invented by Science. He pointed out the
importance of astronomy in navigation.

    A rapidly improving speaker. But he must not mumble.

E. G. PRETTYMAN{most likely misprint for 'PRETYMAN' - see ESSENCE OF
PARLIAMENT below}(Hodgeites) said that farming was both a science and a
sport. The canal system of Great Britain had been neglected.

    Some neat little epigrams.

LESLIE SCOTT (Collegers) said that his father was a lawyer. Science had
been used in the Russo-Japanese War.

    This speaker was not at his best. Perhaps it was the
    gooseberries.

LESLIE WILSON (Hittites) said that his Christian name was the same as
the previous speaker's--(Laughter)--but his views were very different.
(Loud laughter.) He would like to ask the House which had done most in
the War--Tanks or Banks.

    The speech of the evening. Witty and well-argued. But he must
    not fidget with his waistcoat-buttons.

W. S. CHURCHILL (Hivites) said that this was a revolutionary motion.
Sport and Science must stand together. True sport was scientific and
true scientists were sportsmen. (Applause.) Together they would stand
as an imperishable bulwark against the relentless tide of Socialism.
Divided they would fall.

    A steadily improving speaker, but he must not recite.

H. A. L. FISHER (Collegers) was in favour of Proportional Education.

    He must not lecture.

E. GEDDES (Perizzites) said he did not mind what game he played. Rugger,
Soccer, Hockey, Cricket, Lacrosse, Rounders--he was equally at home with
all of them.

    An improving speaker. He must not speak at the roof; there is no
    one there.

F. BANBURY (Sittites) must not go on and on.

A. MOND (Moabites) must not fidget with his feet.

H. D. KING (Hivites) said that sailing was scientific.

    He has not been heard before.

R. KENWORTHY (Day-boy) must not be heard again.

R. BRACE (Coalites) must not wheedle.

ADAMSON (Coalites) must not shout.

A. ADDISON (Collegers) was inaudible where we were.

E. CARSON (Jebusites) was inaudible everywhere. But we gather we did not
miss much. He must speak up.

W. BENN (Amalekites) was invisible.

A. BALFOUR (Stalactites) was insensible. But why not sleep in the
dormitory?

R. CECIL _mi._ (Parasites) must not preach.

J. DEVLIN (Meteorites) said that Ireland was a nation. But he must not
get excited.

R. CECIL _ma._ (Collegers) must not eat while he is speaking. Otherwise
a gentlemanly speech.

The President summed up and the Motion was carried by 12 votes to 11.

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: AN "IMPASSE" AT OUR HOTEL.

OUR ADMIRAL AND GENERAL, WHO ARE NOT ON SPEAKING TERMS, FIND IT
IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE ONE ANOTHER WHEN THEY MEET ON THE STAIRS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE COLISEUM QUEUE, A.D. 60 OR THEREABOUTS.

"LADIES AND GENTS, I 'OPE YOU WILL LET ME 'AVE YOUR KIND ATTENTION WHILE
I GIVE A RENDERING OF 'RULE, BRITANNIA,' THE NATIONAL SONG OF BRITAIN,
ACCOMPANYIN' MYSELF ON THE 'ARP, WICH I LEARNED TO PLAY WEN I WAS
SERVIN' IN THE ARMY OF OCCUPATION IN THAT REMOTE AND BARBAROUS ISLAND."]

       *       *       *       *       *

A DIFFICULT CASE.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--This is one of those social problems which end by
asking what A should do, only in this case I want to know what you would
do.

It happened on the first day of my leave, just after I had, as is my
custom on this day, had my hair cut and otherwise made beautiful at a
place in Bond Street. (I am afraid this sounds as if I was a rich man,
but really I am a Naval Officer.)

I was wearing--well, that would not interest you, but it really was
rather a pleasant suit, with a hat which even _The Daily Mail_ could not
improve upon. Briefly, I was strolling along in a perfectly contented
frame of mind when a horse, drawing a van, chose to fall down right
alongside me.

In a moment of rashness and chivalry--have I said that the horse was
being driven by a girl?--I promptly sat on the brute's head, an act
which I had always been told is the correct thing to do, though, I
should imagine, discouraging for the horse.

In my haste I sat down with my back to the van, so was unable to gauge
the progress of the refitting work which was going on.

In an effort to convey to the crowd, which had, of course, collected,
that I was in no way embarrassed, nay more, that I was well accustomed
to sitting on horses' heads in the middle of Bond Street, I lit
a cigarette and tried to look _blasé_, no easy thing to do in the
circumstances.

Small boys made tactless remarks about my personal appearance and
eccentric habits, but I ignored them, feverishly thinking that this
adventure would necessitate an early visit to my club. I had just
decided what brand of cocktail would best meet the case when I felt a
tap on my shoulder and looked up at a vast blue expanse which I realised
later was a policeman.

"If you've quite finished with that there 'orse you're sitting on, young
man," he said, "the leddy wants to take it 'ome."

The crowd chuckled and I rose hurriedly. Unfortunately, so did the
horse, urged on, possibly by the cries and kicks of several willing
helpers, or possibly by the sight of his mistress, who had come up, I
hoped, to thank me.

Not only did the horse rise, but he rose at full speed and without
giving me time to get my foot off the rein on which I was unwittingly
standing.

My leg shot into the air and I lost all sense of direction for a few
seconds. Then a slight shock, and I found myself clasping the "leddy"
firmly round the neck.

At this juncture my aunt appeared.

My aunt, I should explain, is nothing if not dignified. She is built on
the lines of a monitor, bluff in the bow, broad in the beam, slow and
majestic of movement. Her lips were moving feebly when I saw her, but
she uttered no sound, uncertain, I suppose, whether to intervene or to
pretend that I was in no way connected with her.

Paralysed by her arrival, I saw her slowly take in the scene. Her eye
wandered from the policeman to me, from me to the unfortunate girl
to whom I still clung. I could see her jumping--no, moving
ponderously--towards the wrong conclusion.

Mr. Punch, what would you have done?

Yours faithfully, An N. O.

[Your first thought should have been for the girl, whom you had clearly
compromised in your aunt's eyes. You should at once have introduced her
to that lady as your long-lost _fiancée_. Later in the afternoon you
could have called on your relative and told her that you had mislaid the
girl again--this time irretrievably.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE FOLLY OF ATHENS.

ATHENA (_to her Owl_). "SAY 'TINO'!"

THE OWL. "YOU FORGET YOURSELF. I'M NOT A PARROT. I'M THE BIRD OF
WISDOM."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, November 15th._--To induce the House of Lords to accept a
measure for the compulsory acquisition of land is analogous to the
process of getting butter out of a dog's mouth; and it is not surprising
that Lord PEEL essayed the task of getting a second reading for
an Acquisition of Lands Bill in rather gingerly fashion. When one
remembered a racy correspondence in the newspapers over certain
Midlothian farms one could hardly have been surprised if the Laird of
DALMENY had reappeared in the arena, flourishing his claymore. But,
alas! he still remains in retirement, and it was left to Lord SUMNER to
administer some sound legal thwacks and, in his own words, to "dispel
the mirage which the noble Viscount raised over the sand of a very arid
Bill." He did not oppose the Second Reading, but hinted that if ever it
emerged from Committee its own draftsman would not know it.{missing
period in original}

The PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRADE must regard Monday with rather mixed
feelings. That is the day on which Questions addressed to his Department
have first place on the Order-paper; and accordingly he has a lively
quarter-of-an-hour in coping with the contradictory conundrums of
Cobdenites and Chamberlainites. On the whole he treads the fiscal
tight-rope with an imperturbability worthy of BLONDIN. A Tariff
Reformer, indignant at the increased imports of foreign glass-ware,
provoked the query, "Does my hon. friend regard bottles as a
key-industry?" And a Wee Free Trader who sarcastically inquired if
foreign countries complained of our dumping cement on them at prices
much above the cost in this country was promptly told that "that is the
very reverse of dumping."

Sir DONALD MACLEAN was rewarded to-night for all his uphill work as
leader of the Wee Frees before--and since--Mr. ASQUITH'S reappearance.
On the Financial Resolution of the Ministry of Health Bill his eloquent
plea for the harassed ratepayers received an almost suspiciously prompt
response from Mr. BONAR LAW, who admitted that it was inconvenient to
drive an "omnibus" measure of this kind through an Autumn Session, and
intimated that thirteen of its clauses would be jettisoned. An appeal
from Lady ASTOR, that the Government should not "economise in health,"
fell upon deaf ears. Dr. ADDISON not only enumerated the thirteen doomed
clauses, but threw in a fourteenth for luck.

[Illustration: THE OVERLOADED OMNIBUS.

_Conductor ADDISON (to Driver LAW)._ "WHAT, YOU CAN'T GET 'OME BY
CHRISTMAS WITH ALL THEM PASSENGERS ON TOP? WELL, WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME
BEFORE I TOOK 'EM ON?"]

_Tuesday, November 16th._--I don't suppose Lord CREWE and the other
noble Lords who enlarged upon the theme "_Persicos odi_" expected to
embarrass the FOREIGN SECRETARY by their cross-questioning. Persia is
to Lord CURZON what "de brier-patch" was to _Brer Rabbit_. He has been
cultivating it all his life, and knows every twist and turn of its
complicated history, ancient and modern. The gist of his illuminating
lecture to the Peers was that our one aim had been to maintain Persian
independence with due regard to British interests, and that it now
rested with the Persians themselves to decide their own destiny.

[Illustration: BRER RABBIT{original had 'RABBBIT'} IN HIS ELEMENT.

LORD CURZON.]

Hopes of a relaxation of the passport restrictions were a little dashed
by Mr. HARMSWORTH'S announcement that the fees received for British
visas amounted to some fifty per cent. more than the cost of the staff
employed. The Government will naturally be loth to scrap a Department
which actually earns its keep.

The WAR MINISTER was again badgered about the hundred Rolls-Royces
that he had ordered for Mesopotamia. Now that we were contemplating
withdrawal was it necessary to have them? To this Mr. CHURCHILL replied
that the new Arab State would still require our assistance. A mental
picture of the sheikhs taking joy-rides in automobiles _de luxe_
presented itself to Mr. HOGGE, who gave notice that he should "reduce"
the Army Estimates by the price of the chassis. A little later Mr.
CHURCHILL came down heavily on an innocent Coalitionist who had
proffered suggestions as to the better safeguarding of the troops in
Ireland. "Odd as it may seem," he told him, "this aspect of the question
has engaged the attention of the military authorities."

In the course of debate on the Agricultural Bill, Mr. ACLAND hinted that
Sir F. BANBURY, one of its severest critics, was out of touch with rural
affairs. Whereupon Mr. PRETYMAN came to the rescue with the surprising
revelation that the junior Member for the City of London, in addition
to his vocations as banker, stockbroker and railway director, had on one
occasion carried out the functions of "shepherd to a lambing flock."
The right hon. Baronet, who is known to his intimates as "Peckham,"
will have Mr. PRETYMAN to thank if his _sobriquet_ in future is "Little
Bo-Peep."

_Wednesday, November 17th._--The Lords, having welcomed the Bishop of
DURHAM--a notable addition to the oratorical strength of the Episcopal
Bench--proceeded to show that even the lay peers had not much to learn
in the matter of polite invective. Lord GAINFORD invited them to declare
that the Government should forthwith reduce its swollen Departmental
staffs and incidentally relieve our open spaces from the eyesores that
now disfigure them. Perhaps he laid overmuch stress upon the latter part
of his motion, for the Ministerial spokesman rode off on this line--Lord
CRAWFORD confessing that his artistic sensibility was outraged by these
"horrible hutments"--and said very little about cutting down the staffs.
This way of treating the matter dissatisfied the malcontents, who voted
down the Ministry.

The Front Opposition Bench in the Commons was almost deserted at
Question-time. Presently the appearance of Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY in
unusually festive attire furnished an explanation. After forty years of
bachelorship and four of fighting, WEDGWOOD BENN is Benedict indeed; and
his colleagues were attending his wedding-festivities.

[Illustration: AMOR TRIUMPHANS.

(_After the Pompeii mosaic._)

WITH MR. PUNCH'S BEST WISHES TO CAPTAIN WEDGWOOD BENN.]

The SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY has not yet attained to the omniscience
in Naval affairs that his predecessor acquired in the course of twelve
years' continuous occupancy of the post. But Sir JAMES CRAIG can handle
an awkward questioner no less deftly than "Dr. MAC." Witness his excuse
for not replying to a "Supplementary":--"The hon. and gallant gentleman
must understand that I attach so much importance to his questions that
I wish to be most punctilious in my answers." Who could persist after
that?

Mr. BONAR LAW stated that the treaties by which Great Britain and France
were responsible for constitutional government in Greece came to an
end in August last. Consequently the two Powers have "a completely free
hand" in regard to the Greek Monarchy. But he begged to be excused from
saying in what manner that "free hand" would be used if TINO should
think of returning.

_Thursday, November 18th._--In the Lords the Acquisition of Land Bill
had most of its teeth drawn. Lord SUMNER was the most adroit of the many
operators employed, and he used no gas.

The usual dreary duel of Nationalist insinuation and Ministerial denial
in regard to Irish happenings was lightened by one or two interludes.
Mr. JACK JONES loudly suggested that the Government should send for
General LUDENDORFF to show them how to carry out reprisals. "He is no
friend of _mine_," retorted the CHIEF SECRETARY, with subtle emphasis.
Later he read a long letter from the C.-in-C. of the Irish Republican
Army to his Chief of Staff discussing the possibility of enlisting the
germs of typhoid and glanders in their noble fight for freedom. The
House listened with rapt attention until Sir HAMAR came to the pious
conclusion, "God bless you all." Amid the laughter that followed this
anti-climax Mr. DEVLIN was heard to ask, "Was not the whole thing
concocted in Dublin Castle?" Well, if so, Dublin Castle must have
developed a sense of humour quite foreign to its traditions. Perhaps
that is the reason why the PRIME MINISTER, earlier in the Sitting,
expressed the opinion that "things in Ireland are getting much better."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOOT MYSTERY.

DRAMATIC SCENES AT BILBURY QUARTER SESSIONS.

COUNSEL FOR PROSECUTION ARRIVES FROM LONDON.

THE PROCEEDINGS.

NOTES ON THE LEADING PERSONALITIES IN THE GREAT DRAMA.

PRISONER ADKINS' AWKWARD ADMISSION.

  [Note.--The author is surprised, not to say pained, at the conspiracy
  of silence on the part of the daily Press, as a result of which he is
  left to write this matter up himself. However ...]

A sombre court-house of Quarter Sessions, the light with difficulty
penetrating the dusty panes of the windows. On the so-called Bench
sits the Bench so-called; in point of fact there are half-a-dozen ripe
aldermen sitting on chairs, in the midst of which is an arm-chair, and
in it Mr. Augustus Jones, the Recorder of Bilbury.

Born in 1873 of rich but respectable parents; called, with no uncertain
voice, to the Bar in 1894; of a weighty corpulence and stormy visage,
Mr. Jones now settles himself in his arm-chair to hear and determine
all this business about Absalom Adkins and the Boots. How admirably
impressive is Mr. Jones's typically English absence of hysteria, his
calm, his restfulness. Indeed, give Mr. Jones five minutes to himself
and it is even betting he would be fast asleep.

The Clerk of the Court with awful dignity suggests getting a move on.
Mr. Blaythwayte{original had "Blathwayte"} who, as well as Clerk of the
Court is also Town Clerk of Bilbury, was born in 1850 and, having
survived the intervening years, now demands the production of the
prisoner from below. Looking at this dignitary one gets the poetic
impression of a mass of white hair, white moustache, white whiskers,
white beard and white wig, with little bits of bright red face appearing
in between. From a crevice in one of these patches come the ominous
words, of which we catch but a sample or two: "... Prisoner at the bar
... for that you did ... steal, take and carry away ... pairs of boots
... of our Lord the King, his crown and dignity."

At this moment there arrives in court a sinister figure wearing the wig
and gown so much affected by the English Bar. Plainly a man of character
and of moment; obviously selected with great care for this highly
difficult and delicate matter. His features are sharp, clean-cut. One
feels that they have been sharpened and cut clean this very morning. In
his hand he holds the fateful brief, pregnant with damnatory facts. He
makes his way into the pen reserved "For Counsel only." The usher locks
him in for safety's sake.

    PERSONS IN THE DRAMA (SO FAR).

    _Mr. Augustus Jones._ Recorder. Born in 1873.{missing period in
    original}

    _Mr. Joseph K. Blaythwayte._ Clerk of the Court. Born in 1850.

    _Absalom Adkins_, of uncertain age, supposed boot-fancier.

    _Our Lord the King_, whose peace, crown and dignity are reported
    to have been rudely disturbed by the alleged activities of
    Absalom Adkins.

Who is this strong silent man, this robed counsellor trusted with the
case of the Crown? Who is it? It is I! Born in the year--but if I'm to
tell my life story it's a thousand pounds I want. Make it guineas and
I will include portraits of self and relations, with place of birth,
inset.

The scenario (or do we mean the scene?) is now complete. Leading
characters, minor characters, chorus, supernumeraries and I myself
are all on the stage. Absalom Adkins, clad in a loose-fitting corduroy
lounge suit and his neck encased in a whitish kerchief, rises from his
seat. Mr. Jones, the Recorder, does much as he was doing before--nothing
in particular. Counsel for the prosecution re-reads his brief,
underlines the significant points, forgets that his pencil is a blue
one and licks it. On a side-table, impervious to their surroundings and
apparently unconcerned with their significance, sit the crucial boots.

"How say you, Absalom Adkins"--such the concluding words of the Clerk,
the finish of the prologue which rings up the curtain on this human
drama--"how say you? Are you guilty or not guilty?"

"Guilty," says Absalom, and that ends it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later a large and enthusiastic crowd outside (had there been one) might
have seen a man with clean and sharp-cut features carrying a bag in
one hand and an umbrella in the other, stepping lightly on to a Bilbury
corporation tram, station bound. This is the counsel for the prosecution
(still me), his grave responsibilities honourably discharged, hurrying
back to the vortex of metropolitan life.

F. O. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Vicar._ "I UNDERSTAND FROM THE DOCTOR THAT YOUR HUSBAND
IS HEARING BETTER WITH THIS EAR."

_Darby._ "EH, WHAT? WHAT'S 'E SAY, JOAN?"

_Joan._ "'E SAYS 'E UNDERSTANDS FROM THE DOCTOR THAT YOU'RE 'EARING
BETTER WITH THAT THERE."]

       *       *       *       *       *

From a stores catalogue:--

    "THE ---- WRINGER.

    Guaranteed for one year--Fair wear and tear excepted."

There is always a catch somewhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A consignment of Rumanian eggs has arrived in this country.
    This shipment, which is the first to arrive since the war closed
    this source of supply in 1914, consists of 100 cases, each
    containing 1914 eggs."--_Scots Paper._

Referring, we trust, to the number and not the vintage.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "CONTRACTS, TENDERS, &c.

    The Great Northern Railway Company.

    Allegro moderato } from String     }
    Notturno ....... } Quartet, No. 2, } Borodine.
                     }      in D       }

    STORES CONTRACTS."

    _Daily Paper._

It is generally supposed that the company entertains the idea of
attempting to "soothe the savage breast" of the MINISTER OF TRANSPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTERS I NEVER POST.

_I met a philosopher the other day--he is not a philosopher by
profession, but an architect--who told me that, when annoyed by the
anomalies and petty red-tape restrictions of life or irritated by
incompetence and incivility, or even when he feels that he can amend
somebody else's error or propose an improvement, it is his habit to
write a letter expressing his indignation or embodying his suggestions._

_After remarking that he must be kept very busy I asked him what kind of
replies he got._

"_Oh, I don't get any replies," he said, "because, you see, I don't send
the letters; I only write them and then I tear them up._"

_This is how I knew that he was a philosopher._

_I propose to take to philosophy myself._

       *       *       *

TO A TAXI-DRIVER.

DEAR SIR,--(You must understand, as must all the people that I address
in these epistles, that by "dear" I do not necessarily imply any
affection. I employ the word because I am too old to care about breaking
down harmless conventions; but I might claim in the present connection
that it has more than one meaning. That indeed you will see, if you read
on, is the main point of this letter.)--Dear Sir, then, you may remember
me. I am the fare who hailed you on your rank at the corner of Fulham
Road and Drayton Gardens last Tuesday evening at a quarter to six, and
told you to drive to the Marble Arch. You put down the flag and then
jumped off the box to wind up the starter. It failed, and after several
attempts you had to examine the machinery. I suppose that six minutes
were occupied in this way, whether because you are a bad mechanic or a
careless fellow or because the engine is defective, I cannot say; all
I know is that I was in a hurry and that the flag was down, but we were
not moving. If you had not put the flag down I should have got out and
taken another cab; but I felt that that would be unfair to you. When,
however, at the end of the journey I paid you without adding any tip,
and you received the money with an offensive grunt, I wished that I had
been less considerate.

It is because nothing that I could have said then, in your horrid
hostile mood, would have convinced you that there is any injustice to a
fare at all in putting down your flag before you are properly started,
that I am writing this letter. My hope is that quiet perusal may
demonstrate that the fare has, at any rate, a grain of logic on his side
if he looks upon himself as defrauded. We don't, you know, take your
cabs for the joy of sitting in them, or for the pleasure of watching you
struggling with a crank, but to be conveyed quickly from place to place.
It is wrong to ask us to pay for the time spent by you in persuading
your engine to behave, and it is indecent to become abusive when we act
on that assumption. If I had not been so busy I should have refused to
pay at all and forced you to summon me; but who has time for such costly
formalities? And I might have had to lose my temper, which I have not
done (much) since I read an article by a doctor saying that every such
loss means an abbreviation of life. Life in a world made fit for heroes
may not be any great catch, but it is better, at any rate, than
passing to a region where one is apparently liable to be in constant
communication with mediums.

One other thing. I have just returned from Paris, where, amid much that
is unsatisfactory and besmirched by Peace, taxis remain trustworthy and
plentiful. The price marked on the meter is that which the fare pays,
and any number of persons may ride in the cab without extra charge.
Nothing exceeds my scorn for the English taxi-driver who demands another
ninepence for an additional passenger, even though only a child--nothing
except my scorn for the cowardly official who conceded this monstrous
imposition.

       *       *       *

TO AN ADMINISTRATOR.

DEAR SIR,--May I implore you to authorise the instant removal of the
buildings in the St. James's Park lake? During the War we who find on
the suspension bridge, looking West, the most beautiful late afternoon
view in London, were content to endure the invasion. But we have passed
the second Armistice Day, and still the huts remain, and still there is
no water, and still the enchanted prospect is denied us. After all,
this lake is part of London, and London ratepayers should be entitled to
their city's beauties as well as its necessities.

       *       *       *

TO A PRETTY GIRL.

MY DEAR,--I want you to be a little more merciful. The other day, when
your father, over the eggs and bacon, was reading out the news from
Greece, with the defeat of VENIZELOS, you said lightly that exile didn't
matter very much because VENIZELOS was a very old man. You then returned
to the absorbing occupation of identifying Society people, reading from
left to right. Now VENIZELOS is fifty-five years of age, and I cannot
allow the term "very old" to be applied to him without protest; I am too
nearly his contemporary. "Getting on," if you like, "mature," "ripe,"
but not "very old." You must keep that phrase for the people who--well,
who _are_ very old.

       *       *       *

TO A HABERDASHER.

DEAR SIR,--When I came to put on the collar that I bought from you
yesterday (I am the tallish customer who takes sixteen and a half by two
and was in a hurry to get home to dress) I found that your young man's
finger-marks were on it. Why don't you make your assistants wear gloves
when they handle collars?

       *       *       *

TO A MINISTER OF RELIGION.

YOUR FAR-FROM-SERENE GLOOMINESS,--Won't you one day be a little
cheerful, and wrong? Won't you send out a lifeboat to the wreck instead
of watching her through your smoked field-glasses as she sinks? What you
seem to forget is that most people at times are their own Gloomy
Deans: some of us too often; and there can be too much of a good thing.
Hopelessness butters no parsnips and it is a mood not to be encouraged
or the world would be as bad as we then think it. Gloomy-deaniness,
though salutary for brief intervals, should be sparingly indulged in;
but you are at it all the time. There is a Chinese proverb which says,
"If you can't smile don't open a shop;" and, after all, St. Paul's
Cathedral is in a manner of speaking a kind of shop, isn't it?--the
goods, at any rate, should be obtainable there. The phrase "there is no
health in us" does not constitute the whole liturgy. Down with facile
optimists by all means, but, my dear Sir----

E. V. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.

THE ERMINE.

  The ermine is not quite as grand as he sounds;
  As a rule he is shot if he comes in the grounds;
  You have seen him about by the mulberry-tree,
  Though I very much doubt if you knew it was he.

  He is shot with a gun and hung up by the throat,
  For the ermine, my son, is the same as the stoat;
  So when Auntie has got just a little more ermine
  You can tell her (or not) she is covered with vermin.

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "Col. ---- was unable to be present, and altogether the event
    was highly successful."

    _Local Paper._

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _First Pugilist._ "YOU'RE STANDING ON MY FOOT."

_Second Pugilist._ "WELL, WHAT DO YOU PROPOSE TO DO ABOUT IT?"

_First Pugilist._ "I'LL SHOW YOU WHAT I'LL DO ABOUT IT--FOR A PURSE OF
TEN THOUSAND POUNDS AND THE CINEMA RIGHTS."]

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE NOTES FROM A SYNTHETIC COUNTRY DIARY.

_November 20th._--I have been much struck this morning by a remarkable
instance of protective mimicry on the part of a grey squirrel, which
assumes attitudes and adopts gestures which at a little distance render
him almost indistinguishable from a small monkey. WHITE'S _Selborne_
throws no light on this strange phenomenon, which I can only explain as
a result on the animal world of the now fashionable _Tarzan_ cult, which
so happily reconciles the old hostility between apes and angels.

