  Three brokers sat up at three high desks,
    And balanced their books as the sun went down;
  Each "poring" o'er ledgers that wouldn't come straight,
    Each wrapped in a study disgustingly brown.
  For men must sweat, and women keep cool,
  And woman will ever be fashion's fool,
    Though husbands they be moaning.

  Three names are struck from the Gold Board's books,
    Three brokers' sign-boards are taken down;
  Three men are busy "seeing their friends,"
    Borrowing money to get out of town.
  For men must break if women must waste,
  And it costs a deal to be "people of taste,"
    So good-bye to the fools and their moaning.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: You may have heard of a slight breeze recently
stirring at the Custom House, consequent upon the removal of Mr.
GRINNELL and the appointment of the Hon. THOMAS MURPHY. The savage
feelings which this event aroused have sufficiently subsided to allow a
plain statement of the causes which led to it. At the time, it was the
opinion of many that our worthy Chief Magistrate, convinced that things
were getting along too smoothly in this State, had determined to infuse
new life into both men and measures here. He didn't find it such a hard
job "infusing" the measures, but when he came to the men all the usual
machinery failed, and he had to get out a new patent battering-ram to
wake them up. Such, I say, at least, was the popular impression,
confirmed by the subsequent appearance of the persons against whom its
operations were directed; but the initiated knew better. A few months
ago a private commission, whose expenses were defrayed out of the Secret
Service Fund, was sent to California to explore the region thereabouts
for any hitherto undiscovered connection of the GRANT genealogical tree.
For a long time the search was in vain, but finally the commission
unearthed a chap in the mining district, who hadn't heard of LEE'S
surrender yet, but whose sister had married a nephew of Mrs. GRANT'S
brother-in-law. The poor fellow was promptly captured, combed and
curried, and shipped East via Pacific Railroad, with a label across his
back inscribed,

  "Care of HIS EXCELLENCY, U. S. GRANT,

  C.O.D."

  _Washington, D.C._

On his arrival the express charges were duly paid, and he was billeted
at the White House, while orders were sent to the heads of the different
departments to report what vacancies existed. Brief replies were
returned from each, to the effect that another straw laid on the camel's
back would break it, and, moved by a constitutional antipathy to
breaking camel's backs, the President desisted from his efforts in those
quarters. In this dilemma, the usual recourse was had to the New York
Custom House, and Mr. GRINNELL was sounded as to what he could do for
the last of the GRANTS. This is what he wrote:

"Not even standing-room left. I have more branches of your genealogical
tree now than would serve to thatch the Capitol. The federal turkey at
this port is stuffed to bursting. You may think that the old Exchange
Building, which we now occupy, is a secure building, and so it is, but I
don't think it could hold me if another 'connection' is coming. My blue
book divides these family contributions to the service of the country
into three orders, viz.: 'GRANT,' 'DENT,' and 'SHARPE.' Of the order
'GRANT' I have fifteen in the cellar, forty-seven on the first and
second floors, and ten in the attic; of the order 'DENT, 'nineteen on
the two floors, seven in the attic, and seventeen in the cellar, and of
the order 'SHARPE,' so many that I have engaged the Lightning Calculator
of the _World_ to compute them. Your Excellency will perceive that my
situation is something like that of a commander who is troubled with too
many officers, and if I should be attacked you will Grant that it would
take some pretty Sharp practice to make even a Dent in the armor of my
adversary.

"The best I can do is to request you to authorize the creation of a new
office, such as Supervision of Custom House Cobwebs, Keeper of the Water
Tanks, or Statistician of Distilled Spirits consumed by Revenue Officers
during the ensuing fiscal year, and then, on condition that he will
never show his face in my office again, I will appoint your California
offering to the place.

Your disgusted friend and servant,

MOSES."


When the President read this epistle, he was so agitated that he put the
lighted end of his segar in his mouth, but did not discover his mistake
until Secretary FISH observed the ashes coming from his nose, and with
an air of mock solicitude asked:

"Does your Excellency experience any internal symptoms of a volcanic
character, for I perceive that the crater is working?" pointing to the
Presidential olfactory, while the owner sneezed a fresh volley of ashes
through it.

"It don't make any difference if I do," tartly responded ULYSSES, "but I
tell you what it is, FISH, I'm going to build a little volcano under
MOSE GRINNELL'S chair that'll 'hist' _somebody_ when it breaks out."
Saying which he threw the late Collector's missive towards the
piscatorial premier, and hurriedly left the room.

The above is a genuine narrative, collected from authoritative data, and
may be relied upon when all other means of ascertaining the truth fail.

Yours, historically,

DICK TINTO.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATERING PLACES.

PUNCHINELLO'S VACATIONS.

On the portico of the Mountain House, in the Catskills, Mr. PUNCHINELLO
had the honor of being welcomed by Prof. AGASSIZ, Mr. P. had just
arrived, and his valise was in his hand; but the Professor insisted on a
little conversation with him.

"In spite of the crowds at these summer resorts," said this learned man,
"one seldom meets with any one who takes an interest in science."

Mr. P. bowed, and mentally resolved to rub up his stock of
polytechnology for the occasion.

"I am glad, Mr. PUNCHINELLO," continued the Professor, "that you have
not neglected science in your excellent journal. You have had some
admirable treatises on natural history. The country is your debtor,
sir."

Mr. P. bowed again, and hoped, in his inmost heart, that the country
would soon pay up.

"I must admit that I am disappointed here--in several ways. In the first
place, I have not found a single glacier."

"No glaciers!" cried Mr. P., in surprise.

"No sir, not one, and I can find no sign of the Triassic period."

"Oh no!" said Mr. P. "Not now. That was several years ago, when GEORGE
FRANCIS TRAIN, COLORADO JEWETT, and DAN RICE's celebrated little donkey
were here. They're all gone now."

The Professor looked up a little surprised at these remarks, but went on
with his complaints. "And not a trace of cleavable pyroxene," said he.

"Pie rock!" said Mr. P. to himself. "I'm glad it isn't seen. Have these
geologists got to that?"

"I hoped, too," continued the Professor, "to get a little scoria."

"Oh!" said Mr. P. "You wanted to run up a little score here. Well sir, I
think, in your case, that might be done--in fact, I've no doubt of it."

"I fear you do not quite understand me," said the Professor. "I have not
found here what I had expected. To be sure, I met with a little
gneiss----"

"Ah! a little niece," said Mr. P., rubbing his hands. "Well, now, that
must be pleasant I am very glad indeed to hear it. It will certainly
make the place much more agreeable for you."

"Yes,--" said the Professor, "but it don't amount to much. I wanted
particularly to find on these mountains some traces of their having once
been a part of the shores of the ocean----"

"Oh!" cried Mr. P., "I can help you there. I can show you a fine
BEACH,--if that is what you want."

"You can?" exclaimed the Professor. "With shells?"

"I don't know about that," said Mr. P., "but there he is, in the
bar-room--he keeps the house--and you can ask him yourself about the
shells."

Mr. P. now took occasion to hurry after the waiter to his room, but he
heard the muttered thunder of a German-storm below him as he rapidly
climbed the stairs. He had a very nice room in the extreme upper part of
the house, and the view was charming.

To the East one could see the Hudson-"winding like a silver thread;" the
distant Bay of Fundy; and the foggy shores of Newfoundland.

To the South were distinctly visible the blue Juniata; the bold arch of
the Natural Bridge; and the long lines of shipping at New Orleans; while
in the West, the setting sun could be seen glowing upon the walls of the
Yo Semite, and gilding the tops of the big trees in the Mariposa valley.

After feasting his eyes on this magnificent prospect, Mr. P. came
down-stairs to feast on something which owed its enchantment to a
cooking-range, and not to a range of distance. He met the Professor at
the bottom of the stairs, and hastened to pacify him by inquiries about
some little bushes that he had just gathered.

"That is laurel," said the learned man, grumly.

"Indeed!" said Mr. P. "We make lard of that in New York."

"Lard?" cried the Professor. "I never heard of such a thing."

"Oh, yes, certainly!" said Mr. P.

"Have you never heard of the great LORILLARD manufacturing
establishment?"

"Never;" said AGASSIZ, "and I'll go and see it the very day I reach the
city."

The next day Mr. P. made the ascent of High Peak. Everybody does that;
and so, with a small party, Mr. P. started out--gaily enough. On
reaching the place where the heavy climbing begins, they met the New
York Fat Men's Club coming down, and the peculiar appearance of the
members deterred most of Mr. P.'s party from attempting the great feat.
It was proposed that Mr. P. alone should make the ascent. He
assented--and being thus, in a manner, ordered up--went it alone.

It was not an easy thing--that climbing of High Peak--as any one will be
apt to conclude after attentively studying this picture of the ascent.
But an indomitable will can conquer all obstacles that are not too much
for it, and at last Mr. P. balanced himself on the extreme point of the
Peak. The view was so glorious that he instantly hastened down to inform
his companions that they too must not miss it upon any account. Several
of them, JOHN BINGHAM, of Ohio; SIMON CAMERON, and HENRY WILSON, of
Massachusetts, objected very strongly to the proposed climb, as they
were never in the habit of occupying very high ground. But Mr. P.
insisted that they would there obtain what they needed more than
anything else in the world, and he begged their pardon if he referred to
extended views. So at last they all went up, and when they reached the
topmost point Mr. P. placed himself so as to cut off his companions'
retreat, and then he delivered to them a discourse that they will not
soon forget.

When from his remarks, and the practical illustration which lay beneath
them, they had been made aware that it was a great country of varied
interests, and not a few little sections, for which they should
legislate, Mr. P. let them down.

The following morning, after testing an admirable specimen of
horn-blending--offered him by Mr. BEACH, and not Prof. AGASSIZ, Mr. P.
set out alone for the Kauterskill Falls. His trip was wonderful. He went
in a wagon. The scene was sublime. At one place he came across a bevy of
New York artists sketching the scenery, and their sensations when he
suddenly cut off their north light must have been peculiar. But they
regained their accustomed pallor as the old horse struggled manfully,
and the danger passed away.

At last, after an exciting ride over roads that had perhaps never been
trod before by human wheels, Mr. P. reached the great Kauterskill
Falls--that lovely freak of nature which has been celebrated in all
ages, and of which the poet says:

  "The noble splash Niagara gives,
    In thee, fair Kauterskill, still lives;
  All but the mighty roar and size.
    And clamor of wild hackmen's cries."

[Illustration]

This view of the Falls is from a sketch by Mr. P. himself.

(He will send a beautiful chromo of it--seventeen and a fourteenth by
eighteen and thirteen fifteenths of an inch--life size,--and a copy of
the paper for nine years, for thirty-four dollars and a quarter--postage
paid.)

       *       *       *       *       *

COMIC ZOOLOGY.

GENUS FELIS.--THE LION.

The Lion is a Cat, and has probably been a greater Scourge to humanity
than any other of the feline race, with the exception of the nine-tailed
variety, now almost extinct. He is known in Africa as the _Rad_, an
Arabic word signifying thunder, and not, as the superficial philologist
might suppose, a contraction of the name of a political party in this
country that at present enjoys the Lion's share of the spoils. It is
true that some of the American Rads are immense brutes, but in other
respects they do not bear much resemblance to the "lord with a big head"
which infests the African and Asiatic continents. Much has been said of
the pluck and endurance of the Lion, but his heart often fails him in
the hour of danger, and he sometimes Caves in without showing as much
Bottom as is displayed by his counterfeit presentment on the stage. In
short, like the Noble Savage of our own wilds, his moral attributes have
been greatly exaggerated. He prowls through the woods at night in search
of the herbivora which constitute his prey, but generally vanishes at
the appearance of Aurora. The Rad also makes tremendous havoc among the
stock in many parts of the East, but has never been known to molest the
Bullock in Georgia.

Among the sports who have particularly distinguished themselves as
assailants of the Lion, may be mentioned SAMSON, HERCULES, NIMROD, JULES
GERARD, Captain CUMMING, Sir SAMUEL BAKER, VAN AMBURGH, and CHARLES
SUMNER, of Massachusetts. The last named gentleman, who is not generally
looked upon as an ardent votary of the Chase, some time ago attacked the
British Lion (_Leo Britannicus_) with tremendous ferocity, injuring that
somewhat superannuated beast as much as it was possible to do with a
short range air-gun at the distance of three thousand miles. For a
moment the shaggy monster looked angrily across the Main at
Massachusetts, but was soon satisfied that his antagonist was feinting,
whereupon he yawned, winked lazily at an adjacent Unicorn, and relapsed
into his customary state of doze. He evidently regards American
Lion-shooters as a Motley throng, from whom nothing serious is to be
apprehended.

Several varieties of the Lion have been domesticated in this country,
the principal of which is the Black African, mentioned by GERARD as the
most formidable of the leonine tribe. Here, however, it is tolerably
tame, and breeds faster than in Congo or Dahomey. There are two
specimens (whelps) in the West Point Menagerie, and one of more
venerable appearance, with a full mane (black and curly) in the
Zoological Collection at the Capitol in Washington. Of this breed there
are supposed to be about three millions in our Southern provinces. Some
persons are of opinion that the Lion predestined to lie down with the
snow-white lamb, in the millennium, is the Black African species, and
from the fact that instances of this kind of union are even now of
frequent occurrence, some people believe that the Reign of the Saints on
Earth has already commenced. _Nous verrons._

       *       *       *       *       *

URBS IN RURE.

Having been often importuned for advice, by inexperienced persons who
are about to visit the country, Mr. PUNCHINELLO has concluded to make a
full exposition of his ideas on the subject of rural summerings, as
follows:

When you pack your wardrobes put a few spring-beds in your trunk. You
will find them less depressing than the ordinary summer beds out of
town. A hair mattress or two may be stowed in the odd corners of your
travelling bag.

Arrange, if possible, for a regular supply of Croton. The ablutionary
fluid is most difficult to be had in places where water is abundant. It
is mostly reserved for scenic purposes, and for the promotion of "the
mill-wheel's hum."

Smokers should not lumber their baggage with Partagas. Connecticut
supplies all summer resorts with the finest Havana segars.

If you cannot live without Kissingen you had better take with you the
necessary ingredients, and prepare your beverage yourself. Country
dispensaries dispense with such drinks.

No gentleman should go out of town without half a dozen high hats, in
separate packages. They are just the thing for summer rambles in the
woods. But remember to touch your beaver where the hemlock boughs are
low. White duck is recommended for travelling suits. If the weather
should moderate unexpectedly you can procure caloric at the kitchen
fire. The finest kid gloves are to be worn on fishing excursions.

Ladies should have with them as much jewelry as possible, borrowed or
otherwise. A few five-thousand-dollar dresses will be appropriate when
you go out to see the sun rise. The sun is quite fastidious about such
things, and warmly approves an effective toilette.

It will not be necessary to carry with you opera librettos. Any
well-regulated country tavern can furnish everything of that sort that
you will require.

Have a few billiard-balls in your pocket, however. In cloudy weather you
can improvise a game on the dining-room table. Travelling Chinamen will
probably furnish you with queues.

If you should be invited to try the fruit of the oak tree, on the theory
that it is the American filbert,--very superior,--you can take your
friend's word for it, without eating.

Get up early in the morning and go out to shoot Welsh rabbits for
breakfast. The exercise will improve your appetite.

Find out all the novelties you can. It is a good thing to watch the
black cat fish. Feelin' weary of that sport, you can sit on the rocks
and tell the servant to bring you the evening paper on a silver salver.

Observe carefully the auriferous sunsets among the mountains. You will
thus be enabled to determine with sufficient accuracy how gold is
"closing" in New York.

Finally, write occasional letters to the _Evening Babble_. If your name
is JONES, sign yourself "SENOJ." This thin disguise will be very pretty
and will deceive your most intimate friends. Say in your correspondence
that the tables of the house where you stay are "loaded with all the
luxuries of the season." If convenient, show your letters to the
landlord, whisper to him, "JONES _fecit_," and explain the little joke
about the signature. This courtesy may somewhat alleviate your board
bill.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: VICISSITUDES OF THE NATIONAL GAME.

SKETCH OF LATE MATCH AT GOAT'S HILL, BETWEEN RIVAL CLUBS "BARE LEGS" AND
"BULLY BOYS." UMPIRE UNDERTOOK TO RESERVE HIS DECISION UPON A "FLY
CATCH." "BULLY BOYS" TOOK GAME INTO THEIR OWN HANDS, SETTLING IT AND
THEIR OPPONENTS FOR ONE SEASON AT LEAST.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MY TURKISH BATH.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: It happened to be eleven o'clock some time during
yesterday forenoon.

I generally take something at that hour.

Yesterday I took a Turkish Bath.

I took a horse-car. (That, however, is neither here nor there: but it
got within two blocks of there at 11.25.) I ran up the steps of the T.B.
establishment, and wired the inmates. The door flew open, and an ideal
voter, erst a chattel (I hope I am not obscure in this deeply
interesting portion of the narrative) pointed his thumb over his
shoulder, displayed a choice assortment of ivory, and chuckled with
great natural ease. I supposed this to be a custom with the colored
population of Turkey, and passed on.

Everything was Turkish. I was struck with the order of the bath: also
the scimetary of the apartments. As I think I before remarked,--I passed
on.

The M.D. proprietor shook hands with me very cordially. I also shook
hands with him. I told him that I wanted no ceremony; but if agreeable
to him, I would gird up my loins and go in. He intimated that the only
ceremony was to fund a small portion of the contents of my pocket-book.
I am a little hard of hearing,--and I passed on.

An assistant, in the light and airy costume which I have so often
noticed in Central Africa, in midsummer, beckoned to me, after I had
laid aside a quantity of goods, (belonging to my tailor, and other
downtown business men,) and I followed him.

The room we entered was heated by what I took to be a successful
furnace. I must have been mistaken, however, for I understood the
assistant to apologise because, by reason of a defect in the flues, they
had been able to get the temperature up only to about 475 degrees that
morning. I was a little disappointed, but simply suggested that the
thermometer was Fair in Height; but if I felt chilly I would send out
for some blankets.

He laid me on a slatted conch.

I experienced a gentle glow.

Afterwards, (I don't know why, exactly, I have always attributed it to
the temperature,) I felt hot--hotter--Hottentotter! It seemed as though
the equator ran right along the line of my back-bone.

I didn't care.

I couldn't recollect whether my name was SHADRACH, MESHACH, or ABEDNEGO;
but I was baking and sizzling just as furiously as though I had paid in
advance. My pores were opening, and the perspiration was immense. A red
bandanna handkerchief would have been swamped.

There was a bald-headed man next me. He said he had been lying there
three weeks, and he was going home next Saturday if he didn't strike
oil. I grappled with the allusion, and replied that that was a poor
opening any way, and I didn't believe I could myself lie there so
coolly.

Waiting till my identity was pretty much gone, I dropped into another
marble hall. The assistant (to whom my warmest thanks are due) scooped
up what was left of me and laid me on a slab.

The assistant said I needed him, but, to the best of my recollection, he
kneaded me. He went all over me, taking up a collection, and did
first-rate. I threw off all reserve--about half a pound, I should judge.
He seemed to take a fancy to me. I never knew a man to get so intimate
on short acquaintance.

We talked rationally on a good many subjects.

He said he barely got a living there. I was surprised. I supposed he
managed to scrape together a good deal in the course of a year.

He said he wanted to go into some wholesale house. I ventured to predict
that success awaited him in the rubber business. In fact, we kept up
quite a stream of conversation, which he supplemented with a hose that
played over me in a gentle, leisurely manner, as if I were fully
insured.

He then shoved me into a deep-water tank where the "Rules for Restoring
Persons apparently Drowned" whizzed through my mind, and I came very
near forgetting that I didn't know how to swim. I managed, however, to
fish myself out in season to observe the bald-headed ANANIAS, who
murmured that he had been laid upon the table and should take a peel!

I came out to the drying-room, and made them think I was General GRANT,
by calling for a cigar. I drank a cup of coffee. After a while I rattled
into my clothes and felt better. So much so, that I did what I seldom
do, walked clean home.

If I live to be ninety-eight years old, and am pensioned by Congress,
the explanation which I shall give to the country at large is that it is
due to that Turkish Bath. I can't tell you what I owe to it.

SARSFIELD YOUNG.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: DEATH OF THE "ENTENTE CORDIALE."

_Mother Bull._ "WELL, I NEVER THOUGHT MUCH OF IT. IT ALWAYS WERE A PUNY,
SICKLY LITTLE THING."

_Mother Nap._ "AND TO THINK HOW I HAVE NURSED IT AND NURSED IT!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

HIRAM GREEN WRITES TO NAPOLEON.

HIS OPINION OF THE CAUSE OF THE WAR--REVIEWS THE LATE WAR FOR THE
UNION--A FEW SUGGESTIONS.

SKEENSBORO, NYE ONTO VARMONT, _July--18 Seventy_.

FREND LEWIS:--How does the Emperor bizzness pay about these times?

Wouldn't you rather be door-keeper in some well payin' Circus, than rool
on the Thrown of Frants about now?

Haint your present birth enuff to occashunly make a man forgit the 3rd
Commandment, and use Congreshunal langwige freely?

I see, by the papers, you're up on your mussle, and are about to cave in
Prushy's head, unless Prushy nocks you out of time.

You've got a very ingenious brain, my friend.

What you don't know, DANIEL WEBSTER never rote in his Dickshunary.

Feelin' bad about BENDITTY gettin' his smell-o-factory snubbed by King
WILLIAM, haint what you got up this ere war for.

I can see through your little dodge, my Royal friend.

Things was gettin' too warm for your Imperial top-knot.

Them little jewels, which rested upon your brow, didn't set easy, and
was makin' Corns on your figger head.

Your subjects was spilin' for a fite--and as sure as your borned,
nothin' but a forrin war would keep you from follerin' in the footsteps
of LEWIS the 16th, and keep the Boneypart Die-nasty on its pins.

A good chance turnin' up, you got up a _nasty_ war, so the Prints
Imperial would _die_ off of the Thrown.

"Eh! how's that for Hi'?"

Yes, LEWIS, you are a bitter pill to swaller, and no mistake.

I, the Lait Gustise says so.

Us folks over here hain't so much on the war as we was. We've had our
stomack full of war.

Nootrality is what ales us jist now, altho' I must confess we don't go
quite so heavy on it as England did doorin' our family quarrel. England
was so afrade she couldn't preserve her nootrality alone, that she
fitted up the Alabarmy to help her. And some other folks I know of was
so fast to perserve _her_ nootrality, that she came over to Mexico so as
to be near bye to do it, but if this court hain't laborin' under a
teckinal error a few Pea-crackers traded off their soger overcotes for
white pine ones. And the rest of 'em scratched gravel pooty lively for
_lay bell France_.

I'm afrade I can't jerk soft sawder when I git hold of a goose quil.
Guess not.

When you kill off all your present army, you must git up a draft.

When we had our war here, a man who didn't stand his little draft didn't
amount to shucks. Altho' we had more cripples and able-bodied loonatics
here them times, than since. The enthusiasm got up to that pitch, that
when an enrolling officer would pass down the streets, crowds would rush
after him, and with tears in their eyes and a $300 bill in their hand,
beg the enrolling officer to let them die for their blessed country--by
sendin' a substitoot. Patriotism ran so high, that altho' a man hadn't a
dollar to his back or a shirt in his pocket, he marched gallantly to the
war meetins, and voted to assess his rich nabor to raise money for the
purpose of buyin' substitoots with which to prosecute the war.

Them was the times as tride men's soles, and made the shoomakers laff,
who done the toppin'.

Jumpin' bounties paid them times.

The bold patriot and able-bodied hero who couldn't jump his two bounties
a week, beside his bord and washin', wasn't warmed by the fires of 1776.

