  "`And whosoever cometh
  I will not cast him out.'
  O welcome voice of Jesus,
  Which drives away our doubt;
  Which calls us very sinners,
  Unworthy though we be
  Of love so free and boundless,
  To come, dear Lord, to Thee!"

The Major's face was in shadow, but Bridgie saw the big tears rolling
down his cheeks, and hurried the little sister from the room.

"You sang beautifully, darling.  It was sweet of you to think of it, but
now we must let him be quiet.  I think perhaps he will go to sleep."

"Yes, he says he feels lazy!  The Major was always fond of his bed!"
cried Pixie, skipping blithely down the staircase; but when Bridgie went
back to the sick-room her father's eyes were fixed eagerly on the
doorway, and he said in urgent tones--

"Bride, I'm wanting to see O'Brien!  Send down for him at once, and when
he arrives, let him come up alone.  I want to have a talk!"

Bridgie obeyed, in fear and trembling.  Had something in the sweet
though solemn words of the hymn arrested the sick man's attention and
given him a conviction of his own danger?  She sent the faithful Dennis
in search of the doctor, and in less than an hour's time the two old
friends were once more face to face.

"O'Brien," said the Major clearly, "I want you to answer me a question
before I sleep.  Shall I ever hunt again?"  And at this the doctor
heaved a sigh of relief, for he had feared a more direct inquiry, and
consequently one more difficult to answer.

"Not this season, my boy; you must make up your mind to that.  A spill
like yours takes a little time to recover.  You must be easy, and make
yourself happy at home."

"O'Brien, shall I ever hunt again?"

The doctor put his hand to his head in miserable embarrassment.  He had
known handsome Jack O'Shaughnessy since he was a boy in knickerbockers.
It was more than he could stand to look him in the face and give him his
death-warrant.

"Now--now--now," he cried impatiently, "it isn't like you, Major, to be
worrying your head about what is going to happen next year!  Keep still,
and be thankful you've a comfortable bed to lie on and two of the
prettiest daughters in Ireland to wait upon you!  When next season comes
it will answer for itself, but I'm not a prophet--I can't foretell the
future."

The Major looked in his face with bright, steady eyes.

"You foolish fellow!" he cried.  "You foolish fellow!  You were always a
bad hand at deception, and you are no cleverer than usual this evening.
What are you afraid of, man?  I'm not a coward!  If my time's come, I
can face it calmly.  Back injured, eh?  That's why I felt no pain, but
it's difficult to realise that an injury is hopeless, when one is so
comparatively comfortable.  How long will it be?"

He was perfectly calm, but the doctor was trembling with emotion, and
his voice was rough with tears.

"I can't say.  You are very ill, old man--I won't deceive you--but while
there is life there is hope.  We are going to have a man from Dublin; we
will try every means, and you must help us by keeping up your heart.
One never knows what changes may take place."  But the Major only looked
at him the more steadily and repeated his question.

"How long will it be?  I ought to know, so that I may do what I can for
the children.  I haven't been the best of fathers to them, and the
estate is in a rare muddle.  And Jack!  What about Jack?  I'd like to
see him again, but if it's not imminent, I won't bring him back just
yet.  The boy is doing well, but he is not his own master, and has just
had a holiday.  I must be unselfish in my last days, but you must
promise, doctor, not to let me go without seeing Jack!"

"My dear fellow, it's not a question of days!  At the worst it will be
weeks, possibly months.  My own opinion is two or three months, but we
shall know better after Barrett has been down.  I wish you had not asked
me.  It's the hardest work I've ever had to do, to tell you this; but
for the children's sake--If there is anything to be done, you ought not
to waste time!"

"I understand!" said the Major quietly, then suddenly a light flashed
across his face, and his eyes sparkled as with joy.  "I shall die at
Knock!" he cried.  "I shall not have to turn out after all!  It was that
that drove me mad, O'Brien--the thought of leaving the old place where I
was born, and all my people before me!  I had bad news from the bank,
and it seemed as if the end had come at last, and all the time I was
riding I was feeling desperate--driven into a corner.  The poor beast
tried to save me, she knew the jump was too much for her, but I was too
reckless to care.  I felt that I could face death sooner than leave the
old place, and now it has come to that after all.  I shall die at Knock!
Thank God for that!  Go downstairs, O'Brien, and tell the girls that I
know the truth, and am quite happy.  You needn't mind leaving me.  I
shall sleep now!"


CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

ESMERALDA'S SOLACE.

The Dublin specialist came down in due course, and entirely agreed with
Dr O'Brien's diagnosis.  There was no chance of the Major's recovery,
and though there was no immediate danger, it was not likely that life
would be prolonged for more than two or three months at most.  He would
not suffer physically nor mentally, for the brain power would become
more and more dulled, so that he would hardly realise his condition.

The thought of watching him die by inches, as it were, was an even
harder trial to Esmeralda's impetuous nature than the shock of a sudden
death, but Bridgie was thankful for every day as it came, for every
opportunity of ministering to his needs.  And he was so sweet, so
gentle; all his former indifference and selfishness had fallen from him
like a cloak, and his one thought was for his children, his one anxiety
on their behalf.  When Bridgie saw how devoted he was to his piccaninny,
and how she could always succeed in raising a smile, she proposed that
the child should not return to school for the next term at least; but
the Major would not listen to the suggestion.

"No, no!  I promised Molly that she should have her chance, and I won't
have her distressed.  If she stayed on she would find out--and she would
cry, and I never could endure to see her cry.  It would be delightful to
have her, but it will count for one real unselfish thing I've done in my
life if I do without her for these last weeks."

So it was arranged that Pixie should return at the proper date, and
Mademoiselle sat in the morning-room stitching away at the pile of
shabby little garments, mending, and darning, putting in "elegant"
little patches at the elbows, and turning and pressing the frayed silk
cuffs.  Neither of the sisters had time to help, and indeed seemed to
think It unnecessary to spend so much trouble on a child's outfit, but
Mademoiselle set her lips and went steadily on with her task.  She knew,
if they did not, that it is not too pleasant for a girl to be noticeably
shabby at a fashionable school, and many a dainty piece of ribbon and
lace found its way from her box to refresh hat or dress, and give an
appearance of freshness to the well-worn background.  When the last
night came, and Bridgie tried to thank her for her help, she shook her
head and refused to listen.

"I was a stranger to you, and you welcomed me among you as if I had been
your own.  You were more than kind, you seemed to love me, and never let
me feel for one moment that I was one apart.  That means a great deal to
a woman who is alone in a strange land, and I could not be more happy
than to find something to do for you in return.  What is a little
sewing?  Bah!  I tell you, my friend, it is much more than that I intend
to do for your Pixie.  You say that you will not long be able to send
her to school, but I can do better for her than school.  At the end of
this year I must go 'ome, for my sister is _fiancee_, and when she is
married I must be there to look after the old father.  Lend Pixie to me,
and she shall learn to speak French, the proper French, not that
dreadful language of Holly House, and I will take her myself to the
Conservatoire--there is no better place in the world to learn music than
the Conservatoire in Paris--and she shall learn to sing and make use of
that lovely voice.  _Voila, ma chere_, at the end of a few years she
comes back to you, and you will not know her!  A young woman, with
grace, with charm, with--what shall I say?--an air such as your English
girls do not know how to possess, and everyone shall say, `How she is
accomplished, that Pixie!  How she is clever and _chic_!'"

The tears had risen in Bridgie's eyes, but now she was obliged to laugh
at the same time, for it was so droll to think of Pixie as a young lady
"with an air!"  She laid her hand on Mademoiselle's arm, with one of her
pretty caressing gestures.

"You are a dear, kind Therese, and it all sounds too charming, but I am
afraid it cannot be done.  We shall be very poor, dear father's pension
will die with him, and if we cannot afford school, we could not pay you
properly for all your trouble.  You are a darling for thinking of it,
but--"

She stopped short in dismay, for Mademoiselle had straightened her back
until it was as stiff as a poker, and was glaring at her with the air of
an offended Fury.

"Did you ask me for money when I came here?  Did you expect me to pay
when you asked me to your house?  Am I a pauper, then, that you insult
me with such an idea?  It is the first time, I must say, that I have
invited a guest, and been offered a payment."

"Oh! oh! oh!  What will I do?  Don't glare at me like that, Therese, or
I'll expire with fright!  I never offered you a payment, my dear; I said
I couldn't pay.  I don't know what I said, but I never meant to make you
angry!  If you don't forgive me this instant, I'll cry, and if I once
start crying, I shall go on till to-morrow, and so I warn you!
_Please_, Therese!"

She held out her hand appealingly, but Mademoiselle still tilted her
head, and kept up an air of offence.

"My feelings are 'urt," she said with dignity, "and they can only be
appeased if you withdraw your remarks, and promise that Pixie shall
come.  You can pay for the lessons she takes, and the Paris
Conservatoire will not ruin you, my dear, I can tell you that; but for
the rest, do you suppose Pixie will do nothing for me in return for her
board?  It is not too lively, a house with an invalid and an old maid,
and they may perhaps be glad to have a young thing about; to be made to
laugh sometimes and have some interest in life beyond rheumatism and
asthma!  Do not disturb yourself; if you are too proud to accept help
from me, be assured that I shall make the child useful.  She shall work
for her living!"

"You are pretending to be cross, to make me say `Yes,' but you needn't
keep it up any longer, dear.  I'll say it with thankfulness this minute,
if it is indeed a pleasure to you too.  I don't feel at all too proud to
accept a favour from you, and besides, it seems as if Providence meant
it to be so, and just the most wonderful and beautiful reason for your
coming here, which seemed at first so extraordinary.  If you will really
let us pay for her lessons and make her as useful as if she were your
own little sister, why, then, thank you a thousand times, and a thousand
times more for lifting a weight off my mind.  I was worrying myself
about her future, and now I shall worry no more, and father will be so
relieved, so happy!  Are you sufficiently appeased to let me kiss you,
you haughty Mademoiselle?"

"With pleasure; yes! but my feelings are still sensitive.  With the
slightest irritation I should have a relapse!" said Mademoiselle
stiffly; for it would not do to indulge in sentiment to-day, and
Bridgie's tears were dangerously near the surface.

The time for parting came at last, and the Major nerved himself to bid
adieu to his piccaninny with a composure which should leave her
unsuspicious of its final nature.  He was very white, but Pixie had
grown accustomed to his pallor, and mingling with her grief at leaving
home was a keen pleasure at the thought of returning to her school
companions, of seeing Margaret and Ethel, of hearing Flora's fat,
contented chuckle, and seeing poor Lottie, and hearing how she had fared
at home.  It was all very interesting and exciting, and somehow or other
home had been unusually dull during the last fortnight.  Even Esmeralda
had turned quiet and mild, and Pat abandoned practical joking, and for
once been as good as he looked.  The longing for some of the old
mischievous days made Pixie listen to her father's precepts with a
decided lack of enthusiasm.

"You will be a good child now, piccaninny, and work hard at your tasks.
Remember what I say to you, that you couldn't please me more than by
being good and industrious, and obedient to your teachers.  I let you
run wild too long, and that's made you behind other girls of your age,
but you'll promise me that you will settle down, and make the most of
your opportunities?"

"I don't feel as if I wanted to `settle down.'  It sounds so dull!  Ye
can work without being so awfully proper, can't you, father?  I can be a
little mischievous sometimes, can't I--especially on half-holidays?
I'll work all the better for it afterwards.  And the girls would be so
disappointed if I were proper.  You wouldn't believe how I liven them
up.  Ye wouldn't like it yourself, now, Major, if ye never saw any more
of my pranks!"

He winced at that, but smiled bravely, his eye resting longingly upon
the thin little figure wriggling to and fro in the earnestness of its
appeal.  With the remembrance of all that her brightness had been to
him, he could not bring himself to forbid it to others.

"Be as happy as you can, darling, and make other people happy too.  So
long as you consider their feelings, and are careful not to go too far,
you will do no harm.  Good-bye, my piccaninny!  God bless you!  Never
mind if you are not clever.  Go on loving and making sunshine, and you
will do a great work in the world.  Remember your old father when you
get back among your new friends!"

"I'll think of you for ever!" said Pixie solemnly.  "Haste and get well,
Major, and come and take me out.  You must be getting tired of your bed,
poor creature, but I'm glad you have no pain!  You won't be here long
now."

"No, not long," said the Major quietly.  Then he held up his lips to be
kissed, murmuring the last, the very last words of farewell, "Good-bye,
dearest.  Thank you for being such a good, loving little daughter!"

"Thank you, me dear, for the father you have been to me!" returned
Pixie, in a tone of gracious condescension which made the listener smile
through his tears.  That was a sweet characteristic little speech to
cherish as the last!  He shut his eyes in token of dismissal, and Pixie
stole away, somewhat sobered and impressed, for the Major had not been
given to improving an occasion, but free from the vaguest suspicion that
she had bidden him her last farewell.

Downstairs Esmeralda was waiting to drive the cart to the station, and
at the station itself Mr Hilliard was standing ready to receive the
travellers and make every preparation for their comfort.  No one seemed
in the least surprised to see him, for in Jack's absence he had quietly
taken upon himself the part of an elder son, and in every emergency had
stepped forward and filled the gap so efficiently and with such tact
that he seemed more like a friend of years' standing than an
acquaintance of a few weeks.  His business in London had apparently been
accomplished in a flying visit of forty-eight hours, during which time
he had seen Jack, and eased anxiety by a personal report of the invalid,
and here he was back again, declaring that there was no reason to keep
him in town, and that if he could be of the slightest use at Bally
William, there was no place in the world where he would sooner remain.
Bridgie smiled to herself with quiet understanding, and Esmeralda grew
thoughtful, and her white cheeks hung out a flag of welcome every time
he made his appearance.

To-day she made no objections to his proposal that they should walk back
from the station, leaving a boy to drive the cart home during the
afternoon, and they struck across the fields together, disregarding damp
and mud with the callousness of true lovers of the country.  The girl's
face was worn and downcast, for the Castle would seem sadder and emptier
than ever, now that the little sister had gone and that dear, helpful
Mademoiselle; and at nineteen it is hard to look forward and know for a
certainty that the shadows must deepen.  There were still sadder times
ahead, and a loneliness such as she dared not even imagine; for
Esmeralda had not Bridgie's sweet faith and trust, and hers was a
stormy, rebellious nature, which made trouble harder to bear by useless
fightings against the inevitable.  Bridgie found a dozen reasons for
thankfulness among all her distresses--the kindness of friends, the
ceaseless attentions of the good old doctor, her father's freedom from
pain, and the fact that he would be spared the dread of his lifetime--a
separation from the old home.  Joan saw nothing but clouds and darkness,
and tortured herself with useless questionings.  Why--why--why--why
should all this trouble fall upon her?  Why should other girls have
father and mother and money and opportunity, and she be deprived of all?
Why should the accident have been allowed to happen when her father's
life was of such value--such inestimable value to his young family?  Why
should her life be darkened just at the time when she was most able to
appreciate joy and gladness?

Hilliard watched the clouds flit over the beautiful face, and was at no
loss to understand their meaning.  During the last fortnight he had more
than once been a witness to a storm of misery and rebellion, and apart
from that fact he had an instinctive understanding of the girl's moods,
which seemed all the more curious, as his own nature of happy optimism
was as great a contrast to hers as could possibly be imagined.

A smile flickered over his face as he reflected on the strangeness of
his present position.  A month ago, if anyone had described to him the
O'Shaughnessy sisters, he would have declared without a moment's
hesitation that Bridgie would be his favourite--that in every way her
character would be more attractive to him than that of Esmeralda.  Even
now--even now, yes!--if the question were put plainly before him, he
must still confess that "Saint Bridget" was sweeter, simpler, less
wayward, more unselfish; yet in spite of all there remained the
extraordinary fact that he liked Bridgie and loved Esmeralda with the
whole strength of a warm and loving heart!  He saw her faults clearly
enough with those keen, quizzical eyes; but what the sight roused in him
was not so much disapproval as pity, and an immense longing to help and
comfort.  He loved her; he understood her; he honestly believed he could
help her to rise above the weaknesses of girlhood, and become the fine
large-hearted woman which Providence had intended her to be; and the
time had come when he intended to speak his mind and ask her to be his
wife.  The silence had lasted so long that at last Joan herself became
conscious of it, and roused herself to apologise for her rudeness.

"But I'm miserable," she said simply.  "I can't remember to be polite.
I was miserable last time when the Pixie left us, but now it is a
hundred times worse.  I can't bear to think of going back to that big
empty place, with that dreadful shadow coming nearer and nearer every
day.  I am a coward, and can't face it!"

"You are a very brave girl--one of the bravest I have known.  If anyone
but yourself dared to call you cowardly, you would never forgive him!"

"I know.  It's quite true.  I am brave physically, but I've never been
tried in this way before, so I didn't know how weak I was.  It arises
from selfishness, I suppose.  It's so hard to suffer like this."

"No one can be selfish who loves another person more than himself.  I
have never seen two sisters so devoted to each other as you and Miss
Bridgie.  You will think of her before yourself, and try to help her,
simply because you will not be able to help it!"

"Darling Bridgie--yes, I do love her.  Who could help it?  She takes
this trouble like the saint she is, and believes that it is God's will,
and must be for the best.  I can't feel that--I can't!  It's against
reason.  It's no use pretending that I do, for I should only be a
hypocrite."

"You have a different nature from your sister's.  It is more difficult
for you to be resigned, and therefore all the more praiseworthy if you
fight against your rebellious thoughts, and learn submission."

The tears rose slowly to Joan's eyes, and she looked at him with a
flickering smile.

"It's no use talking to you.  You won't believe how wicked I am.  You
make excuses for me all the time."

"Because I love you, Joan, that's why!  Have you found that out for
yourself?  I began to love you the first night I saw you, and I've been
progressing rapidly ever since.  We have not known each other for long,
as time goes, but so much has happened, and we have been thrown so much
together, that we know each other as well as many acquaintances of
years' standing.  My mind is made up, at any rate; there is no other
girl in the world for me!  Do you think if you tried very hard, and I
waited very patiently, you could possibly bring yourself to love me in
return?"

Esmeralda gazed at him with her wonderful grey eyes, not shyly, not
self-consciously, but with slow, solemn deliberation.

"I don't know," she said simply.  "I can't tell.  I like you very much;
you have been very kind to us, and it does me good to talk to you, but
that isn't enough, is it?  I don't know if I love you, but I love you to
love me!  It comforts my heart, and makes me feel braver and less
lonely.  Sometimes this last week--just once or twice when we have been
alone--I have thought perhaps you did, and I hoped I was right.  I hoped
I was not mistaken."

"You darling!  Oh, you darling!" cried Hilliard rapturously.  "You do
make me happy by telling me that.  That's all I want--the very best
proof you could give me that you care for me too.  Don't you see, my
beauty, that you must care, or you would not want my love?  Don't you
see that you have been drawn to me, just as I have been drawn to you,
and have felt the need of me, just as I have longed and wearied for you
ever since we met?"

He tried to take hold of her hand as he spoke, but Esmeralda drew back,
refusing to be caressed.  She was trembling now, and her cheeks were
flushed with the loveliest rosy blush, but there was an almost piteous
appeal in her voice.

"No, no!  I don't see, and I don't want to see.  My father is dying--he
has only a little time to live, and I don't want to think of anything
but him.  If it is as you say, there will be all my life after that, but
I can't think of love-making and being happy just the very last weeks we
shall have him with us.  You mustn't be vexed; you mustn't think me
ungrateful.  Indeed, indeed I can't help it!"

"Vexed!" echoed Hilliard.  "Ungrateful!"  His glance was eloquent enough
to show how far such words were from expressing his real feelings; and
indeed, if it had been possible to love Esmeralda more dearly than he
did, he would have done so at this moment, when she had shown him the
reality of the generous nature which lay beneath her girlish
extravagances, "You are absolutely and perfectly right, dearest," he
said warmly, "and I promise you faithfully that I will not try in any
way to absorb your attention so long as your father lives.  But after
that, Esmeralda, (I may call you Esmeralda, mayn't I?  Dear, charming,
ridiculous name--I love it, it is so deliciously characteristic!) after
that you must let me take my right place as your chief helper and
comforter.  I won't be put off any longer, and I think I shall be able
to do more for you than anyone else."

"I believe you would, but--" Esmeralda looked at him beneath a troubled,
puckered brow--"please understand exactly what you are doing!  We are
dreadfully poor--we shall be poorer than ever after father's death.  If
I marry I shall not have a penny; for what little there is will be
needed, and more than needed, for Bridgie and the children.  It would be
rather hard on you, for, as you are not rich yourself, you ought to
marry a rich wife."

"The same argument would apply to you, wouldn't it?  Are you quite sure
that you would not mind marrying a poor man, and that you would be
willing to give up luxuries for my sake?"

"If I cared enough in other ways, it would not be money that would
prevent me, but I should not like to be _very_ poor!" returned Esmeralda
honestly.  "I've had a taste of it, you see, and it is so dull to be
always worried about butchers' bills, and not be able to have nice
puddings because of the eggs, and to have to turn your dresses over and
over again.  I've never once in my life bought a thing because I liked
it best.  I've always had to think that it was cheaper than the others,
and I must make it do.  I suppose men can't realise how hard that is,
for they need so much less, and their things are so much alike; but it's
hard to know for certain that you could look just twice as nice, and
have to put up with the frumpy things, because you have no money to pay
for the pretty ones!"

"Could you look twice as nice as you do now--really?"  Hilliard laughed
with happy incredulity.  "Esmeralda, I don't believe it; but if you
marry me you shall try!  I am not so poor that I cannot afford to be a
little extravagant for my wife, and I promise you faithfully that you
shall never be worried about the bills.  I'll protect you from that, and
every other trouble, I hope, my darling!"

"It--it seems to me we are getting on very fast.  I thought I said that
nothing was decided.  Oh, please talk of something else!" cried
Esmeralda urgently; and Hilliard laughed once more, and obediently
discussed the weather until the Castle gates were reached.


CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

A TELEGRAM.

