"The upper compartments of the window were of painted glass, and cast a
dismal light through the apartment, while the lower panes were darkened
by the hawk-mews raised on the terrace, that the King might enjoy the
daily satisfaction of seeing the birds fed before his eyes. On a table
near the window stood an inkstand, with various implements for writing,
but from the sorry condition in which they appeared, and the confusion
prevailing around, it was evident they were but seldom used. Small was
the space, however, allotted to such unimportant objects. His Majesty
had been deeply engaged during the morning tending a sick puppy, which
having washed in sweet water, and combed with a gilt comb, he had
adorned with ribbons, and placed in a basket by his side; mixing a
scented paste for whitening the hands, preparing a wash for the skin,
binding the broken leg of a wounded merlin, and finally seeking
relief from such engrossing pursuits in the favourite recreation of
disburdening a precious missal of its exquisite illuminations, in order
to ornament the walls and enliven the chamber! It was at this table
that Henri himself was seated, with his head resting on his hands, and
apparently buried in thought. The noisy greeting of the spaniels as
La Vallée entered caused him to start, and he turned towards the door
an anxious unquiet look, bespeaking distrust and apprehension, which,
however, quickly changed to one of pleasure as he heard the name and
recognised the features of his visiter.

"The King was at that time in the very flower of his age, and yet
he appeared no longer young. The cares of royalty, the murder of the
Guises, had planted many a deep and lasting furrow on his brow, which
time would have otherwise withheld for many years. His pallid cheek
and sunken eye told of a mind but ill at ease. No art, no charm could
restore the bloom and freshness which remorse for the past and fear for
the future had long ago dispelled, never to return. And yet, with that
sweet self-deception which all are so disposed to practise, he sought
to banish reflection and beguile alarm in the pursuit of all kinds of
frivolous amusements unworthy of his rank or station, and fancied he
had succeeded in chasing care if for a moment he ceased to think.

"His costume even now was foppish and _recherché_. Much time had
evidently been spent in adjusting the drooping leathers of his jewelled
toque, and no pains had been spared in properly disposing the plaits
of his _fraise_ and ruffles, or in arranging the folds of his
broidered mantle. The snow-white slippers, with the sky-blue roses, the
silken hose and braided doublet, seemed better fitted for the parade of
the courtly saloon than the privacy of the closet. The hand he extended
to the Count was like that of a youthful beauty, rather than of one who
had once wielded sword with the bravest. Every finger was adorned with
a costly jewel, which flashed and sparkled in the light as he waved his
hand in token of welcome, and, pointing to a chair, bade his visiter be
seated."

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE LAW OF ARREST. A TALE FROM FACTS.

Once upon a time there lived at Hamburgh a certain merchant of the name
of Meyer--he was a good little man; charitable to the poor, hospitable
to his friends, and so rich that he was extremely respected, in spite
of his good nature. Among that part of his property which was vested
in other people's hands, and called debts, was the sum of five hundred
pounds owed to him by the Captain of an English vessel. This debt had
been so long contracted that the worthy Meyer began to wish for a new
investment of his capital. He accordingly resolved to take a trip to
Portsmouth, in which town Captain Jones was then residing, and take that
liberty which in my opinion should in a free country never be permitted,
viz. the liberty of applying for his money.

Our worthy merchant one bright morning found himself at Portsmouth; he
was a stranger to that town, but not unacquainted altogether with the
English language. He lost no time in calling on Captain Jones.

"And vat?" said he to a man whom he asked to show him to the Captain's
house, "vat is dat fine veshell yondare?"

"She be the Royal Sally," replied the man, "bound for Calcutta--sails
to-morrow; but here's Captain Jones's house, Sir, and he'll tell you
all about it."

The merchant bowed, and knocked at the door of a red brick house--door
green--brass knocker. Captain Gregory Jones was a tall man; he wore a
blue coat without skirts; he had high cheek bones, small eyes, and his
whole appearance was eloquent of what is generally termed the bluff
honesty of the seaman. Captain Gregory seemed somewhat disconcerted at
seeing his friend--he begged for a little further time. The merchant
looked grave--three years had already elapsed. The Captain demurred--the
merchant pressed--the Captain blustered--and the merchant, growing
angry, began to threaten. All of a sudden Captain Jones's manner
changed--he seemed to recollect himself, begged pardon, said he could
easily procure the money, desired the merchant to go back to his inn,
and promised to call on him in the course of the day. Mynheer Meyer went
home, and ordered an excellent dinner. Time passed--his friend came not.
Meyer grew impatient. He had just put on his hat and was walking out,
when the waiter threw open the door, and announced two gentlemen.

"Ah, dere comes de monish," thought Mynheer Meyer. The gentlemen
approached--the taller one whipped out what seemed to Meyer a receipt.
"Ah, ver well, I vill sign, ver well!"

"Signing, Sir, is useless; you will be kind enough to accompany us. This
is a warrant for debt, Sir; my house is extremely comfortable--gentlemen
of the first fashion go there--quite moderate, too, only a guinea
a-day--find your own wine."

"I do--no--understand, Sare," said the merchant, smiling amiably,
"I am ver vell off here--thank you--"

"Come, come," said the other gentleman, speaking for the first time,
"no parlavoo Monsoo, you are our prisoner--this is a warrant for the
sum of 10,000l. due to Captain Gregory Jones."

The merchant stared--the merchant frowned--but so it was. Captain
Gregory Jones, who owed Mynheer Meyer 500l., had arrested Mynheer Meyer
for 10,000l.; for, as every one knows, any man may arrest us who has
conscience enough to swear that we owe him money. Where was Mynheer
Meyer in a strange town to get bail? Mynheer Meyer went to prison.

"Dis be a strange vay of paying a man his monish!" said Mynheer Meyer.

In order to wile away time, our merchant, who was wonderfully social,
scraped acquaintance with some of his fellow-prisoners. "Vat be you in
prishon for?" said he to a stout respectable-looking man who seemed in
a violent passion--"for vhat crime?"

"I, Sir, crime!" quoth the prisoner; "Sir, I was going to Liverpool
to vote at the election, when a friend of the opposite candidate had
me suddenly arrested for 2,000l. Before I get bail the election will
be over!"

"Vat's that you tell me? arrest you to prevent your giving an honesht
vote? is that justice?"

"Justice, no!" cried our friend, it's the Law of Arrest."

"And vat be you in prishon for?" said the merchant pityingly to a thin
cadaverous-looking object, who ever and anon applied a handkerchief to
eyes that were worn with weeping.

"An attorney offered a friend of mine to discount a bill, if he could
obtain a few names to indorse it--_I_, Sir, indorsed it. The bill
became due, the next day the attorney arrested all whose names were
on the bill; there were eight of us, the law allows him to charge two
guineas for each; there are sixteen guineas, Sir, for the lawyer--but
I, Sir--alas my family will starve before _I_ shall be released.
Sir, there are a set of men called discounting attorneys, who live upon
the profits of entrapping and arresting us poor folk."

"Mine Gott! but is dat justice?"

"Alas! No, Sir, it is the law of arrest."

"But," said the merchant, turning round to a lawyer, whom the Devil had
deserted, and who was now with the victims of his profession; "dey tell
me, dat in Englant a man be called innoshent till he be proved guilty;
but here am I, who, because von carrion of a shailor, who owesh me five
hundred pounts, takes an oath that _I_ owe him ten thousand--here am
I, on that schoundrel's single oath, clapped up in a prishon. Is this
a man's being innoshent till he is proved guilty, Sare?"

"Sir," said the lawyer primly, "you are thinking of criminal cases;
but if a man be unfortunate enough to get into debt, that is quite a
different thing:--we are harder to poverty than we are to crime!"

"But, mine Gott! is that justice?"

"Justice! pooh! it's the law of arrest," said the lawyer, turning on
his heel.

Our merchant was liberated; no one appeared to prove the debt. He flew
to a magistrate; he told his case; he implored justice against Captain
Jones.

"Captain Jones!" said the magistrate, taking snuff; "Captain Gregory
Jones, you mean!"

"Ay, mine goot Sare--yesh!"

"He set sail for Calcutta yesterday. He commands the Royal Sally.
He must evidently have sworn this debt against you for the purpose of
getting rid of your claim, and silencing your mouth till you could
catch him no longer. He's a clever fellow is Gregory Jones!"

"De teufel! but, Sure, ish dere no remedy for de poor merchant?"

"Remedy! oh, yes--indictment for perjury."

"But vat use is dat? You say he be gone--ten thousand miles off--to
Calcutta!"

"That's certainly against your indictment!"

"And cannot I get my monish?"

"Not as I see."

"And _I_ have been arreshted instead of him!"

"You have."

"Sare, I have only von vord to say--_is_ dat justice?"

"That I can't say, Mynheer Meyer, but it is certainly the law of
arrest," answered the magistrate; and he bowed the merchant out of
the room.

_New Monthly Magazine_.

       *       *       *       *       *


SONGS FOUND IN A GRECIAN URN.


THE FIRST-BORN.

  Beautiful, O woman! the sun on flower and tree,
  And beautiful the balmy wind that dreameth on the sea;
  And softly soundeth in thine ear, the song of peasants reaping,
  The dove's low chant among the leaves, its twilight vigil keeping.

  And beautiful the hushing of the linnet in her nest,
  With her young beneath her wings, and the sunset on her breast:
  While hid among the flowers, where the dreamy bee is flitting,
  Singing unto its own glad heart, the poet child is sitting.

  It stirreth up the soul, upon the golden waves to see,
  The galley lifting up her crowned head triumphantly--
  Io! Io! now she laugheth like a Queen of Araby,
  While Joy and Music strew with flowers the pathway of her Chariotry!

  And beautiful unto thy soul, at summer time to wait,
  Till Moonlight with her sweet pale feet, comes dancing to thy gate;
  Thy violet-eyes upturn'd unto thy love with timid grace,
  He feels thine arm about his neck, thy kisses on his face.

  Beautiful, O gentle girl, these pleasant thoughts to thee,
  These chosen sheaves, long harvested within thy memory!
  But when thy face grows dim, with weariness and care,
  Thy heart, forgetting all its songs, awaketh but to prayer!

  Thou lookest for a gleeful face, thine opening eyes to greet,
  While coldness gathers on thy breast, the shadow round thy feet--
  Beautiful, O woman, the green earth and the flowers may be,
  But sweeter in that hour the voice of thy First-born Child to thee!

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ATHENIAN LOVER TO HIS MISTRESS.

  The spirit of mine eyes is faint
    With gazing on thy light;
  I close my eyelids, but within,
    Sweet, thou art shining bright,
  Sitting amid the purple gloom,
    Like a flower-bird at night!

  Thy beauty walketh by my side
    By the green wood, on the sea;
  I hear thee in the bird that sings
    Upon the orange-tree;
  Thy face upon the haunted streams
    Is looking up to me.

  Gentle one, in grief I linger
    Beside the glimmering nest,
  Till evening sinketh in the flowers,
    Like a weary fawn to rest,
  Yea, my heart is sick with longing
    To dream upon thy breast!

  From the dark of their golden lids
    Thy singing eyes look out,
  Like doves in the olives hearing
    The shepherd's jocund shout,
  As he wandereth with his pipe
    The sunny glen about.

  I have opened mine eyes--
    Thy beauty will not part,
  But thy feet are dancing round me,
    Lovely! that thou art--
  The sweet breath of thine eyes doth fall,
    Like odour on my heart!

       *       *       *       *       *


TO AN ARCADIAN CHILD SLEEPING.

  Sleep on--sleep on--the silver flowers
    A pillow for thy head may be,
  While Evening with her band of hours
    Sits by thee silently.

  From Morning in the vine-yards straying--
    Sweet child, so fair and meek!
  She lieth down, and tired of playing,
    Darkens the bright grass with her cheek.

  One arm upon her eyes she foldeth,
    O'er which her hair is softly fann'd,
  And still with fainting grasp she holdeth
    The lilies in her hand.

  Oh--wake her not! the forest streams
    With balmy lips are breathing rest;
  Nor stir the garland of sweet dreams
    Which Sleep hath bound upon her breast.


_New Monthly Magazine_.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS_.

       *       *       *       *       *


ADVENTURES OF A YOUNGER SON.

These are three volumes of spirit-stirring scenes, understood to
be written by Captain Trelawney, the friend of Lord Byron. They are
said to embody many incidents of the early life of the writer, though
portions are too strongly tinged with romance to belong to sober
reality. The Younger Son is driven from his native hearth by a cruel
father. His proud spirit revolts at such oppression. He sings with Byron

  And now I'm in the world alone,
    Upon the wide wide sea;
  But why should I for others groan,
    When none will sigh for me.


His father intends him for the church, but instead of being sent to
Oxford, he is taken to Portsmouth, and shipped on board a line of battle
ship, the Superb, as passenger to join one of Nelson's squadron; but
through delay he falls in with the Nelson fleet of Trafalgar, two days
after the deathless victory. He returns to England, and is sent to Dr.
Burney's navigation school. He next sails for the East Indies, and at
Bombay he falls in with an adventurous stranger, whom he is minute in
describing, "to account in part for the extraordinary influence he
gained, on so short an acquaintance," over his mind and imagination.
He became his model. The height of his ambition was to imitate him,
even in his defects. Thenceforth his life of adventure begins. In its
progress, he describes many beautiful scenes in the East with touching
enthusiasm, and some of his pictures of luxuriant nature are admirably
painted.

We pass over these to the heroine, at Port St. Louis:


_An Arabian Beauty_.

