     "The effect," he says, "of any particular arrangement of the
     judicial power, is seen directly in the greater or less purity
     with which justice is administered; but there is a further
     effect, and one of the highest importance, in its furnishing to
     a greater or less portion of the nation one of the best means
     of moral and intellectual culture--the opportunity, namely, of
     exercising the functions of a judge. I mean, that to accustom a
     number of persons to the intellectual exercise of attending to,
     and weighing, and comparing evidence, and to the moral exercise
     of being placed in a high and responsible situation, invested
     with one of God's own attributes, that of judgment, and having
     to determine with authority between truth and falsehood, right
     and wrong, is to furnish them with very high means of moral and
     intellectual culture--in other words, it is providing them with
     one of the highest kinds of education. And thus a judicial
     constitution may secure a pure administration of justice, and
     yet fail as an engine of national cultivation, where it is
     vested in the hands of a small body of professional men, like
     the old French parliament. While, on the other hand, it may
     communicate the judicial office very widely, as by our system
     of juries, and thus may educate, if I may so speak, a very
     large portion of the nation, but yet may not succeed in
     obtaining the greatest certainty of just legal decisions. I do
     not mean that our jury system does not succeed, but it is
     conceivable that it should not. So, in the same way, different
     arrangements of the executive and legislative powers should be
     always regarded in this twofold aspect--as effecting their
     direct objects, good government and good legislation; and as
     educating the nation more or less extensively, by affording to
     a greater or less number of persons practical lessons in
     governing and legislating."

History is an account of the common purpose pursued by some one of the
great families of the human race. It is the biography of a nation; as
the history of a particular sect, or a particular body of men, describes
the particular end which the sect or body was instituted to pursue, so
history, in its more comprehensive sense, describes the paramount object
which the first and sovereign society--the society to which all others
are necessarily subordinate--endeavours to attain. According to Dr
Arnold, a nation's life is twofold, external and internal. Its external
life consists principally in wars. "Here history has been sufficiently
busy. The wars of the human race have been recorded when every thing
else has perished."

Mere antiquarianism, Dr Arnold justly observes, is calculated to
contract and enfeeble the understanding. It is a pedantic love of
detail, with an indifference to the result, for which alone it can be
considered valuable. It is the mistake, into which men are perpetually
falling, of the means for the end. There are people to whom the
tragedies of Sophocles are less precious than the Scholiast on
Lycophron, and who prize the speeches of Demosthenes chiefly because
they may fling light on the dress of an Athenian citizen. The same
tendency discovers itself in other pursuits. Oxen are fattened into
plethoras to encourage agriculture, and men of station dress like
grooms, and bet like blacklegs, to keep up the breed of horses. It is
true that such evils will happen when agriculture is encouraged, and a
valuable breed of horses cherished; but they are the consequences, not
the cause of such a state of things. So the disciples of the old
philosophers drank hemlock to acquire pallid countenances--but they are
as far from obtaining the wisdom of their masters by this adventitious
resemblance, as the antiquarian is from the historian. To write well
about the past, we must have a vigorous and lively perception of the
present. This, says Dr Arnold, is the merit of Mitford. It is certainly
the only one he possesses; a person more totally unqualified for writing
history at all--to say nothing of the history of Greece--it is difficult
for us, aided as our imagination may be by the works of our modern
writers, to conceive. But Raleigh, whom he quotes afterwards, is indeed
a striking instance of that combination of actual experience with
speculative knowledge which all should aim at, but which it seldom
happens that one man in a generation is fortunate enough to obtain.

From the sixteenth century, the writers of history begin to assume a
different character from that of their predecessors. During the middle
ages, the elements of society were fewer and less diversified. Before
that time the people were nothing. Popes, emperors, kings, nobles,
bishops, knights, are the only materials about which the writer of
history cared to know or enquire. Perhaps some exception to this rule
might be found in the historians of the free towns of Italy; but they
are few and insignificant. After that period, not only did the classes
of society increase, but every class was modified by more varieties of
individual life. Even within the last century, the science of political
economy has given a new colouring to the thoughts and actions of large
communities, as the different opinions held by its votaries have
multiplied them into distinct and various classes. Modern historians,
therefore, may be divided into two classes; the one describing a state
of society in which the elements are few; the other the times in which
they were more numerous. As a specimen of the first order, he selects
Bede. Bede was born in 674, fifty years after the flight of Mahomet from
Mecca. He died in 755, two or three years after the victory of Charles
Martel over the Saracens. His ecclesiastical history, in five books,
describes the period from Augustine's arrival in Kent, 597.

Dr Arnold's dissertation on Bede involves him in the discussion of a
question on which much skill and ability have been exercised. We allude
to the question of miracles. "The question," says he, "in Bede takes
this form--What credit is to be attached to the frequent stories of
miracles or wonders which occur in his narrative?" He seizes at once
upon the difficulty, without compromise or evasion. He makes a
distinction between a wonder and a miracle: "to say that all recorded
wonders are false, from those recorded by Herodotus to the latest
reports of animal magnetism, would be a boldness of assertion wholly
unjustifiable." At the same time he thinks the character of Bede, added
to the religious difficulty, may incline us to limit miracles to the
earliest times of Christianity, and refuse our belief to all which are
reported by the historians of subsequent centuries. He then proceeds to
consider the questions which suggest themselves when we read Matthew
Paris, or still more, any of the French, German, or Italian historians
of the same period:--

     "The thirteenth century contains in it, at its beginning, the
     most splendid period of the Papacy, the time of Innocent the
     Third; its end coincides with that great struggle between
     Boniface the Eighth and Philip the Fair, which marks the first
     stage of its decline. It contains the reign of Frederick the
     Second, and his long contest with the popes in Italy; the
     foundation of the orders of friars, Dominican and Franciscan;
     the last period of the crusades, and the age of the greatest
     glory of the schoolmen. Thus, full of matters of interest as it
     is, it will yet be found that all its interest is more or less
     connected with two great questions concerning the church;
     namely, the power of the priesthood in matters of government
     and in matters of faith; the merits of the contest between the
     Papacy and the kings of Europe; the nature and character of
     that influence over men's minds which affected the whole
     philosophy of the period, the whole intellectual condition of
     the Christian world."--P. 138.

The pretensions and corruptions of the Church are undoubtedly the chief
object to which, at this period, the attention of the reader must be
attracted. "Is the church system of Innocent III. in faith or government
the system of the New Testament?" Is the difference between them
inconsiderable, such as may be accounted for by the natural progress of
society, or does the rent extend to the foundation? "The first century,"
says Dr Arnold, "is to determine our judgment of the second and of all
subsequent centuries. It will not do to assume that the judgment must be
interpreted by the very practices and opinions, the merits of which it
has to try." As a specimen of the chroniclers, he selects Philip de
Comines, almost the last great writer of his class. In him is
exemplified one of the peculiar distinctions of attaching to modern
history the importance of attending to genealogies.

     "For instance, Comines records the marriage of Mary, duchess
     of Burgundy, daughter and sole heiress of Charles the Bold,
     with Maximilian, archduke of Austria. This marriage, conveying
     all the dominions of Burgundy to Maximilian and his heirs,
     established a great independent sovereign on the frontiers of
     France, giving to him on the north, not only the present
     kingdoms of Holland and Belgium, but large portions of what is
     now French territory, the old provinces of Artois and French
     Flanders, French Hainault and French Luxemburg; while on the
     east it gave him Franche Comté, thus yielding him a footing
     within the Jura, on the very banks of the Saône. Thence ensued
     in after ages, when the Spanish branch of the house of Austria
     had inherited this part of its dominions--the long contests
     which deluged the Netherlands with blood, the campaigns of King
     William and Luxembourg, the nine years of efforts, no less
     skilful than valiant, in which Marlborough broke his way
     through the fortresses of the iron frontier. Again, when Spain
     became in a manner French by the accession of the House of
     Bourbon, the Netherlands reverted once more to Austria itself;
     and from thence the powers of Europe advanced, almost in our
     own days, to assail France as a republic; and on this ground,
     on the plains of Fleurus, was won the first of those great
     victories which, for nearly twenty years, carried the French
     standards triumphantly over Europe. Thus the marriage recorded
     by Comines has been working busily down to our very own times:
     it is only since the settlement of 1814, and that more recent
     one of 1830, that the Netherlands have ceased to be effected by
     the union of Charles the Bold's daughter with Maximilian of
     Austria"--P. 148.

Again, in order to understand the contest which Philip de Comines
records between a Frenchman and a Spaniard for the crown of Naples, we
must go back to the dark and bloody page in the annals of the thirteenth
century, which relates the extinction of the last heir of the great
Swabian race of Hohenstauffen by Charles of Anjou, the fit and
unrelenting instrument of Papal hatred--the dreadful expiation of that
great crime by the Sicilian Vespers, the establishment of the House of
Anjou in Sicily, the crimes and misfortunes of Queen Joanna, the new
contest occasioned by her adoption--all these events must be known to
him who would understand the expedition of Charles VIII. The following
passage is an admirable description of the reasons which lend to the
pages of Philip de Comines a deep and melancholy interest:--

     "The Memoirs of Philip de Comines terminate about twenty years
     before the Reformation, six years after the first voyage of
     Columbus. They relate, then, to a tranquil period immediately
     preceding a period of extraordinary movement; to the last stage
     of an old state of things, now on the point of passing away.
     Such periods, the lull before the burst of the hurricane, the
     almost oppressive stillness which announces the eruption, or,
     to use Campbell's beautiful image--

     'The torrent's smoothness ere it dash below,'--

     are always, I think, full of a very deep interest. But it is
     not from the mere force of contrast with the times that follow,
     nor yet from the solemnity which all things wear when their
     dissolution is fast approaching--the interest has yet another
     source; our knowledge, namely, that in that tranquil period lay
     the germs of the great changes following, taking their shape
     for good or for evil, and sometimes irreversibly, while all
     wore an outside of unconsciousness. We, enlightened by
     experience, are impatient of this deadly slumber; we wish in
     vain that the age could have been awakened to a sense of its
     condition, and taught the infinite preciousness of the passing
     hour. And as, when a man has been cut off by sudden death, we
     are curious to know whether his previous words or behaviour
     indicated any sense of his coming fate, so we examine the
     records of a state of things just expiring, anxious to observe
     whether, in any point, there may be discerned an anticipation
     of the great future, or whether all was blindness and
     insensibility. In this respect, Comines' Memoirs are striking
     from their perfect unconsciousness: the knell of the middle
     ages had been already sounded, yet Comines has no other notions
     than such as they had tended to foster; he describes their
     events, their characters, their relations, as if they were to
     continue for centuries. His remarks are such as the simplest
     form of human affairs gives birth to; he laments the
     instability of earthly fortune, as Homer notes our common
     mortality, or in the tone of that beautiful dialogue between
     Solon and Croesus, when the philosopher assured the king, that
     to be rich was not necessarily to be happy. But, resembling
     Herodotus in his simple morality, he is utterly unlike him in
     another point; for whilst Herodotus speaks freely and honestly
     of all men, without respect of persons, Philip de Comines
     praises his master Louis the Eleventh as one of the best of
     princes, although he witnessed not only the crimes of his life,
     but the miserable fears and suspicions of his latter end, and
     has even faithfully recorded them. In this respect Philip de
     Comines is in no respect superior to Froissart, with whom the
     crimes committed by his knights and great lords never interfere
     with his general eulogies of them: the habit of deference and
     respect was too strong to be broken, and the facts which he
     himself relates to their discredit, appear to have produced on
     his mind no impression."

We now enter upon a period which may be called the modern part of modern
history, the more complicated period, in contradistinction to the more
simple state of things which, up to this moment, has occupied the
student's attention. It is impossible to read, without deep regret, the
passage in which Dr Arnold speaks of his intention--"if life and health
be spared him, to enter into minute details; selecting some one country
as the principal subject of his enquiries, and illustrating the lessons
of history for the most part from its particular experience."

He proceeds, however, to the performance of the task immediately before
him. After stating that the great object, the [Greek: teleiotaton
telos], of history is that which most nearly touches the inner life of
civilized man, he pauses for a while at the threshold before he enters
into the sanctuary, and undoubtedly some external knowledge is requisite
before we penetrate into its recesses: we want some dwelling-place, as
it were, for the mind, some local habitation in which our ideas may be
arranged, some topics that may be firmly grasped by the memory, and on
which the understanding may confidently rest; and thus it is that
geography, even with a view to other purposes, must engross, in the
first instance, a considerable share of our attention. The sense in
which Dr Arnold understands a knowledge of geography, is explained in
the following luminous and instructive commentary:--

