With the spirit of expansion pervading the Head of the Government,
it is not surprising that the expenditure of the country continues to
rise. The panting estimators of the Treasury toil after it in vain.
Mr. McKENNA's passionate plea for a limit to our war-expenditure
would have carried more weight if he had shown any sign during his
own time at the Exchequer of being able to impose one. As it was, Mr.
G.D. FABER'S interjection, "Do you want to limit munitions?" quickly
reduced him to generalities. The House had to rest content with Mr.
BONAR LAW'S assurance that, though we could not go on for ever, we
could go on longer than our enemies.

_Wednesday, July 25th_.--In answer to Mr. PEMBERTON-BILLING the
UNDER-SECRETARY FOR WAR stated that since the outbreak of hostilities
there had been forty-seven airship raids and thirty "heavier than air"
raids upon this country, "making seventy-eight air-raids in all."
It is believed that the discrepancy is explained by Mr. BILLING'S
unaccountable omission on one occasion to make a speech.

He made one to-night of prodigious length, which brought him into
personal collision with Major ARCHER-SHEE. Palace Yard was the
scene of the combat, which ended, as I understand, in ARCHER downing
PEMBERTON and BILLING sitting on SHEE. Then the police arrived and
swept up the hyphens.

Opinions differ as to Mr. KING'S latest performance. Some hold his
complaint, that the Government had introduced detectives into the
precincts of the House, to have been perfectly genuine, and point to
his phrase, "I speak from conviction," as a proof that he was trying
to revenge himself for personal inconvenience suffered at the hands
of the minions of the law. Others contend that he knew all the time
the real reason for their presence--the possibility that Sinn Fein
emissaries would greet Mr. GINNELL'S impending departure with a
display of fireworks from the Gallery.

_Thursday, July 26th_.--Mr. GINNELL put in a belated appearance this
afternoon in order to make a dramatic exit. But the performance lacked
spontaneity. Indeed honourable Members, even while they laughed, were,
I think, a little saddened by the sight of this elderly gentleman's
pathetic efforts to play the martyr.

Only twenty Members agreed with Mr. RAMSAY MACDONALD in believing,
or affecting to believe, that the recent resolution of the German
Reichstag was the solemn pronouncement of a sovereign people, and that
it only requires the endorsement of the British Government to produce
an immediate and equitable peace. Not much was left of this pleasant
theory after Mr. ASQUITH had dealt it a few of his sledge-hammer
blows. "So far as we know," he said, "the influence of the Reichstag,
not only upon the composition but upon the policy of the German
Government, remains what it has always been, a practically negligible
quantity."

Any faint hopes that the pacificists may have cherished of a
favourable division were destroyed by Mr. SNOWDEN in a speech whose
character may be judged by the comment passed on it by Mr. O'GRADY,
just back from Russia, that "LENIN had preached the same doctrine
in Petrograd."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REST CURE.

TRIBUNALS PLEASE COPY.

    "It is understood that the French Consul at Lourenco Marques,
    M. Savoye, has, owing to ill-health, asked his Government to
    allow him to return to Army duties."--_Cape Times_.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lady ---- set the fashion of arriving at the altar with empty
    hands. She is the first bride to have had such an important
    wedding without the etceteras of bouquet or prayerbook,
    bridesmaids, pages, or wedding-cake."--_News of the World_.

Far too big a handful.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "150 YEARS AGO--JULY 20, 1767.

    Reports of the borough treasurer of West Ham show a loss of
    £41,000 on the municipal tramways and a loss of £35,000 on
    the electricity undertaking."--_Northampton Daily Echo_.

So the eighteenth century was not so much behind the present time as
we had been led to believe.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Piano wanted by a lady to teach little girl to
    learn."--_Provincial Paper_.

One of those player-pianos with the new knuckle-rapping attachment,
we suppose.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Tommy_ (_"mopping up" captured trench_). "IS THERE
ANYONE DOWN THERE?"

_Voice from dug out_. "JA! JA! KAMERAD!"

_Tommy_. "THEN COME OUT HERE AND FRATERNISE."]

       *       *       *       *       *

MILITARY AIDES.

Last year, owing to the pressure of other engagements, we did not
mark out the tennis-lawn at "Sunnyside." This year the matter has
been taken out of our hands by the military powers.

Nevin was the first to think of it.

"What about a game of tennis?" he suggested one bright morning in May.
"Keep us from going to seed."

It was his second day of leave after three months in the Ypres
salient, so the change may have been too sudden for him.

"That's a toppin' notion," echoed Bob; "let's raid 'old Beetle's'
museum and dig out the posts."

So Captain Richard Nevin, R.E., and Second-Lieutenant Robert Simpson,
R.G.A., took the affair into their own hands.

Having seen the same forces cooperating on previous occasions, I
determined to keep clear of them. Besides, I am only "old Beetle."

They found the posts in the tool-shed, and, borne upon the initial
enthusiasm of their venture, began to sink a sort of winze on each
side of the lawn. Up to this point they were perfectly amicable.

Then Nevin, who is a thoughtful person, said suddenly, "I suppose you
made quite sure that the line of these posts will cross the centre of
the court?" And then, before Bob could retort, added, "Of course you
ought to have made absolutely certain of that. As it is we had better
leave this and find the corner irons."

Corner irons that have remained undisturbed for some twenty-four
months have a way of concealing themselves. At the end of ten minutes
the seekers began to show signs of impatience. Such terms as "angles,"
"bases," "centres," interspersed with "futilass," "sodamsure,"
"knowseverything" were cast upon a hazardous breeze.

Eventually they found one of the angles. To the ordinary layman this
would have meant the beginning of the end. But Captain Richard Nevin
and Second-Lieutenant Robert Simpson are made of different stuff. They
scorn the easy path. They have stores of deep knowledge to draw upon
which place their calculations beyond the ken of ordinary mortals.
After they had made a searching examination of the exhumed angle, Bob
pulled out a pencil, prostrated himself behind it and then proceeded
to gaze ecstatically over the top.

I moved my chair slightly south, and pretended to regard the
apple-blossom, and when Nevin went into the house and brought out
something which dimly resembled a ship's sextant I had the extreme
presence of mind not to make any inquiries.

Margery drifted up with a pink duster.

"What ever are they doing?" she asked.

"Hush!" I whispered; "Bob has just got the range of a supply train on
the far side of the rockery, and if Nevin (Nevin is the Crown Prince
of Wurtemberg) doesn't get the longitude of Bob's battery in the next
minute or so it's all up with his day's rations."

Suddenly Bob rose and made some calculations on an old envelope.

"That means three rounds battery fire," I said, "and the Prince loses
his lunch."

Not satisfied with this success, Bob went indoors and looted the hall
of three walking-sticks and Margery's new sunshade.

"What's he going to do now?" said Margery, with one eye on the
sunshade.

He walked to the far end of the lawn and manoeuvred in a small circle.
"The water-jackets are boiling," I replied, "and they've run out of
cold water. He's divining with the sunshade. Look!"

Bob suddenly drove the sunshade into the ground. There was a sharp
crack and--well, he found another iron. Of course he tried to explain
to Margery that it was an absolute accident and he only wanted to get
a sighting post; but that was mere self-effacement, and I said so.

Things began to happen quickly after this, and if Private James
Thompson had not put in an unexpected appearance they might have
completed the job without any further difference of opinion.

In the merry days before war was thrust upon us, James Thompson was
an architect of distinction. Obviously an architect of distinction can
reduce the difficulty of laying out a tennis-court to an elementary
and puerile absurdity. For half-an-hour the demonstration was
carried on in the garden, and, after Private Thompson had twice been
threatened with arrest for using insubordinate language to a superior,
it was decided to finish the discussion in my study, assisted by the
softening influence of the Tantalus.

Not for a hundred pounds would I have ventured into the study.
I picked up _The Gardening Gazette_ and engrossed myself in an
interesting piece of scandal about the slug family.

Suddenly Margery appeared at the double.

"Do you know," I exclaimed excitedly, "it was the wireworm after all."

"Come on," Margery panted irrelevantly, "buck up and we can finish it
before they come out again."

In her hand she held a tape-measure and an official diagram of a
tennis-court.

Five minutes later the experts emerged from the house.

"Hullo!" exclaimed Nevin aggressively, "what have you been up to?"

"Oh," I replied, flicking over a page on weed-killers, "Margery and I
thought we had better find the remainder of the tennis-court while you
were having a rest. Margery's gone for a ball of string, and if Bob
fetches the marker you can mark the court out now."

Nevin's retort was addressed solely to Private James Thompson, who
had in an unfortunate moment given way to laughter of an unmilitary
character.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE AMATEUR DETECTIVE.

{Cartoon, four panels, each with two gentlemen gazing skyward, bombs
exploding nearby. One is using binoculars.}

First panel: "From its shape--

Second panel: --I should say--

Third panel: --that must be--

Fourth panel: --Enemy Aircraft!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

BOYCOTTING THE BARD.

    ["Contributors are particularly requested not to send
    verses. They are not wanted in any circumstances and cannot
    be printed, acknowledged or returned."--_British Weekly,
    July 19th_.]

  I once believed the "Man of Kent"
    To be the Muses' firm supporter
  And only less benevolent
    To bards than Mr. C.K. SHORTER.

  But this untimely cruel blow
    Has quite irrevocably shattered
  The hopes which till a week ago
    My fondest aspirations flattered.

  Wounds that are dealt us by our friends
    Are faithful, but the name endearing
  Of friend is hardly his who lends
    And then denies the bard a hearing.

  How then, O brother songsters, can
    You take it lying down, and meekly
  Submit to this tyrannic ban
    Laid on you by _The British Weekly_?

  No, no, you'll rather emulate
    The Minstrel Boy, and we shall find you
  Storming its barred and bolted gate
    With reams of lyrics slung behind you.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The time is ripe for the authorities to stop all street
    traffic and to order all unauthorised persons to take cover
    under penalty at the approach of the air raiders."--_Daily
    Paper_.

Personally, as a means of shelter we prefer the coal-cellar to any
penalty.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Will Mr. Russell deny that 660 million gallons of milk
    were produced in Ireland last year, of which half went
    to the creameries and more to the margarine factories
    and to England?"--_Letter in Irish Paper_.

The Irish gallon would appear to be as elastic as the Irish mile.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DIVISIONAL SIGNS."

The purpose of a Divisional Sign is to deceive the enemy. Let us
suppose that you belong to the 580th Division, B.E.F. You do not put
"580" on your waggons and your limbers and on the tin-hats of your
Staff. Certainly not. The enemy would know about you if you did that.
You have a secret sign, such as tramps chalk on your wall at home,
to let other tramps know that you are a stingy devil with a dog.
There are many theories as to how these signs are chosen. One is
that a committee of officers sits _in camerâ_ for forty-eight hours
without food or drink till it has decided on an arrow or a cat, or
a dandelion, rampant.

Let us take it that a cat is chosen--a quiet thing in cats--crimson on
a green-and-white chess-board background. Forthwith (as adjutants say)
a crimson cat on a green-and-white chess-board background is painted
and embroidered on everything that can be painted and embroidered
on--limbers and waggons and hand-carts and arm-bands and the
tin-hats of the Staff. And the Division goes forth as it were masked,
disguised, just like one of Mr. LE QUEUX'S diplomatist heroes at a
fancy-dress ball, wearing a domino. You perceive the mystery of it?
None of your naked numbers for us B.E.F. men. The Division marches
through a village, and the dear old Man Who Knows, cropping up again
in the army, says, "Ha! A red cat on a green-and-white chess-board
back-ground? That's the Seventeenth Division."

You see it now? The enemy agent overhears. The false news is sent
crackling through the ether to Berlin (wireless, my dear, in the
cellar, of course). The German General Staff looks up the village on
a map, and sticks into it a flag marked 17. Not 580, mark you. And
the General Staff frowns, and Majesty pushes the ends of its moustache
into its eyes at the knowledge that the Seventeenth Division is in
----.

And all the time it is in ----! And the agent pockets his cheque. So
wars are won and lost.

Just conceive the romance of it. It is heraldry gone mad.

Myself, however, I incline to another theory as to the origin of these
symbols.

A Higher Command enters his office. Higher Commands always enter. The
office is hung, like a studio in one of Mr. GEORGE MORROW'S pictures,
with diagrams of circles and triangles and crosses and straight lines.
The Higher Command, being a man of like passions with ourselves,
has just finished tinned Oxford marmalade and a cigarette. He heads
for the "IN" basket on his desk and takes from it the "Arrivals and
Departures" paper. "Ha!" says he to the lady secretary, "I see six
new divisions landed yesterday." He pauses. Outside there is no sound
to be heard save the loud and continuous crash of the sentry's hand
against his rifle as he salutes the passing A.D.C.'s. "What about
signs?" says the Higher Command. The lady secretary says nothing. She
floods the carburettor of the typewriter preparatory to thumping out
"Ref. attached correspondence" on it.

The Higher Command stares at the diagrams on the wall. He is feeling
strangely light-hearted this morning. He has won five francs at bridge
the night before from the D.A.D.M.O. A.D.G.S. And mere circles and
squares have somehow lost their savour for him. He plunges. "What
about a lion?" he says.

The lady secretary opens the throttle and plays a few bars on the
"cap." key.

"A red lion?" says the Higher Command seductively.

"It has already been done," says the lady secretary coldly.

"Who by--I mean by whom?" inquires the H.C. indignantly.

"By the Deputy Assistant Director of Higher Commands, when you were
on leave last week," she tells him.

He mutters a military oath against the D.A.D.H.C. Then his face
clears.

"Tigers?" he suggests hopefully.

"We might do a green tiger," she says reluctantly.

"With yellow stripes!" shouts the H.C.

"On a mauve background," says she, warming to it.

And so one division is disposed of. But it is not always so, of
course.

After a Hun counter-attack, for instance, the H.C. may gaze morosely
on his geometrical figures and throw off a little thing in triangles
and St. Andrew's crosses. Or when the moon is at the full you may
have a violet allotted to you as your symbol. One never knows. My
own divisional sign, for instance, is an iddy-umpty plain on a field
plainer. We vary the heraldry by ringing changes on the colours. On
our brigade arm-band it becomes an iddy-umpty gules on a field azure.
If I could be quite sure of the heraldic slang for puce I would tell
you what it is on our Army Corps arm-band. On a waggon it used to be
an iddy-umpty blank on a field muddy. But administrative genius has
changed all that. A routine order, the other day, ordered a pink
border to be painted round it, and this first simple essay of the
departed Morse goes now through the villages of France in a bed of
roses.

We wish sometimes that our conditions were changed as easily as our
signs.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Dugal._ "I DOOT, TAMMAS, THERE'S SOME INFORMEESHUN
THAT MAN LLOYD GEORGE HAS GOT THAT WE HAVENA GOT."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "The Lord Provost will preside over the meeting at which Mr.
    Churchill will speak in Dundee this afternoon.

    Many thousands of people are leaving Dundee for their annual
    holiday."--_Manchester Daily Dispatch_.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Alderman Domoney, in remanding at the Guildhall to-day
    two boys charged with theft, said he always liked to deal
    leniently with boys so young and to give the ma fresh start
    in life."--_Evening Paper_.

Not a word about the pa, you observe; yet we daresay he was equally
responsible.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the Orders of a Battalion in France:--

    "The undermentioned N.C.O.'s and men will parade at 10.30
    a.m., bringing with them their gas-helmets and the unexpired
    portion of their rations."

It is surmised that this refers to the cheese-issue.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Basil_. "MUMMY, AREN'T WE EXCEEDING THE SPEED
RATION?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

BULLINGTON.

  It was in the high midsummer and the sun was shining strong,
  And the lane was rather flinty and the lane was rather long,
  When, up and down the gentle hills beside the stripling Test,
  I chanced to come to Bullington and stayed a while to rest.

  It was drowned in peace and quiet, as the river reeds were drowned
  In the water clear as crystal, flowing by with scarce a sound;
  And the air was like a posy with the sweet haymaking smells,
  And the Roses and Sweet-Williams and Canterbury Bells.

  Far away as some strange planet seemed the old world's dust and din,
  And the trout in sun-warmed shallows hardly seemed to stir a fin,
  And there's never a clock to tell you how the hurrying world goes on
  In the little ivied steeple down in drowsy Bullington.

  Small and sleepy there it nestled, seeming far from hastening Time,
  As a teeny-tiny village in some quaint old nursery rhyme,
  And a teeny-tiny river by a teeny-tiny weir
  Sang a teeny-tiny ditty that I stayed a while to hear:--

  "Oh the stream runs to the river and the river to the sea;
  But the reedy banks of Bullington are good enough for me;
  Oh the road runs to the highway and the highway o'er the down,
  But it's just as good in Bullington as mighty London town."

  Then high above an aeroplane in humming flight went by,
  With the droning of its engines filling all the cloudless sky;
  And like the booming of a knell across that perfect day
  There came the guns' dull thunder from the ranges far away.

  And, while I lay and listened, oh the river's sleepy tune
  Seemed to change its rippling music, like the cuckoo's stave in June,
  And the cannon's distant thunder and the engines' warlike drone
  Seemed to mingle with its burthen in a solemn undertone:--

  "Oh the stream runs to the river, and the river to the sea,
  And there's war on land and water, and there's work for you and me;
  And on many a field of glory there are gallant lives laid down
  As well for sleepy Bullington as mighty London Town."

  So I roused me from my daydream, for I knew the song spoke true,
  That it isn't time for dreaming while there's duty still to do;
  And I turned into the highroad where it meets the flinty lane,
  And the world of wars and sorrows was about me once again.

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMEMBRANCE.

"Stop, Francesca," I cried. "Don't talk; don't budge; don't blink.
Give me time. I've all but--"

"What _are_ you up to?" she said.

"There," I said, "you've done it. I had it on the tip of my tongue,
and now it has gone back for ever into the limbo of forgotten things,
and all because you couldn't keep silent for the least little fraction
of a second."

"My poor dear," she said, "I _am_ sorry. But why didn't you tell me
you were trying to remember something?"

"That," I said, "would have been just as fatal to it. These things are
only remembered in an atmosphere of perfect silence. The mental effort
must have room to develop."

"Don't tell me," she said tragically, "that I have checked the
development of a mental effort. That would be too awful."

"Well," I said, "that's exactly what you _have_ done, that and nothing
less. I feel just as if I'd tried to go upstairs where there wasn't a
step."

"Or downstairs."

"Yes," I said, "it's equally painful and dislocating."

"But you're not the only one," she said, "who's forgotten things. I've
done quite a lot in that line myself. I've forgotten the measles and
sugar and Lord RHONDDA and the Irish trouble and your Aunt Matilda,
and where I left my _pince-nez_ and what's become of the letters I
received this morning, and whom I promised to meet where and when to
talk over what. You needn't think you're the only forgetter in the
world. I can meet you on that and any other ground."

"But," I said, "the thing you made me forget--"

"I didn't."

"You did."

"No, for you hadn't remembered it."

"Well, anyhow I shall put it on to you, and I want you to realise that
it's not like one of your trivialities--"

"This man," said Francesca, "refers to his Aunt Matilda and Lord
RHONDDA as trivialities."

"It is not," I continued inexorably, "like one of your trivialities.
It's a most important thing, and it begins with a 'B.'"

"Are you sure of that?"

"Yes, I'm sure it begins with a 'B'--or perhaps a 'W.' Yes, I'm sure
it's a 'W' now."

"I'm going," said Francesca with enthusiasm, "to coax that word or
thing, or whatever it is, back to the tip of your tongue and beyond
it. So let's have all you know about it. Firstly, then, it begins with
a 'W.'"

"Yes, it begins with a 'W,' and I feel it's got something to do with
Lord RHONDDA."

"That doesn't help much. So far as I can see, everything now is more
or less nearly connected with Lord RHONDDA."

"But my forgotten thing isn't bread or meat. It's something remoter."

"Is it Mr. KENNEDY-JONES?" said Francesca. "He's just resigned, you
know."

"No, it's not Mr. KENNEDY-JONES. How could it be? Mr. KENNEDY-JONES
doesn't begin with a 'W.'"

"If I were you, I shouldn't insist too much on that 'W.' I should keep
it in the background, for it's about ten to one you'll find in the
end that it doesn't begin with a 'W.' At any rate we've made two short
advances; we know it isn't Mr. KENNEDY-JONES, because he doesn't begin
with a 'W,' and we are not very sure that it begins with a 'W.'"

"Keep quiet," I said, flushing with anticipation. "I'm getting it ...
your last remark has put me on the track.... Silence.... Ah ... it's
_DEVONSHIRE CREAM!_ There--I've got it at last. I feel an overwhelming
desire for Devonshire cream."

"The sort that begins with a 'W.'"

"Well, it's got a 'V' in it, anyhow."

"And it isn't Devonshire cream at all. It's really Cornish cream--at
least Mary Penruddock says it is."

"Cornish or Devonshire, that's what I must have, if Lord RHONDDA'S
rules allow it."

"All right, I'll get you a pot or two if I can. But are you sure you
won't forget it again?"

"If I do," I said, "I can always remember it by the W.'"

R.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHANGE CURE.

    ["The only way to make domestic service popular is for
    a duchess to become a tweeny-maid."--_Evening Paper_.]

  It may be that a modern _Mene, Mene_
  Will force the Duchess to become a tweeny;
  But, ere this democratic transformation
  Secures the "old nobility's" salvation,
  Some other changes are not less but more
  Needful to aid our progress in the War.

  For instance, with what rapture were we blest
  If Some-one gave his nimble tongue a rest
  And, turning Trappist, stanched the fearsome gush
  Of egotistic and thrasonic slush;
  Or if Lord X. eschewed his daily speeches
  And took to canning Californian peaches;
  Or if egregious LYNCH could but abstain
  From "ruining along the illimitable inane"
  At Question-time, and try to render PLATO'S
  _Republic_ into Erse, or grow potatoes;
  Or if our novelists wrote cheerful books,
  Instead of joining those superfluous cooks
  Who spoil our daily journalistic broth
  By lashing it into a fiery froth.

  Counsels of sheer perfection, you will say,
  In times when ev'ry mad dog has his day,
  Yet none the less inviting as the theme
  Of a millennial visionary's dream.

  And as for Duchesses turned tweeny-maids
  Or following other unobtrusive trades
  There's nothing very wonderful or new
  Or difficult to credit in the view;
  For DICKENS--whom I never fail to bless
  For solace in these days of storm and stress--
  Found his best slavey in _The Marchioness_.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHO INVENTED THE NAME "SAMMIES"?

    "They are 'Sammies' now, and the name probably will stick
    along with 'Tommy,' 'poilu' and 'Fritz.' ... The christening
    was one of those spontaneous affairs, coming nobody knows
    how."--_Kansas City Star_.

Mr. Punch, ever reluctant to take credit to himself, feels
nevertheless bound to say that the suggestion of the name "Sammies"
for our American Allies appeared in his columns as long ago as June
13th. On page 384 of that issue (after quoting _The Daily News_ as
having said, "We shall want a name for the American 'Tommies' when
they come; but do not call them 'Yankees'; they none of them like it")
he wrote: "As a term of distinction and endearment, Mr. Punch suggests
'Sammies'--after their uncle."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "London.-- ---- House. Bed, breakfast 4s., per week 24s. 6d.
    No other meals at present."

This should encourage the FOOD-CONTROLLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Transport Officer_. "CONFOUND IT, MAN! WHAT ARE YOU
DOING? DON'T TEASE THE ANIMALS!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS_.)

