     "Will you walk into my parlor?" said the Spider to the Fly,
     "'Tis the prettiest little parlor that ever you did spy;
     The way into my parlor is up a winding stair,
     And I have many curious things to show when you are there."
     "Oh, no, no," said the little Fly, "to ask me is in vain;
     For who goes up your winding stair can ne'er come down again."

     "I'm sure you must be weary, dear, with soaring up so high;
     Will you rest upon my little bed?" said the Spider to the Fly.
     "There are pretty curtains drawn around, the sheets are fine and thin;
     And if you like to rest a while, I'll snugly tuck you in!"
     "Oh, no, no," said the little Fly, "for I've often heard it said,
     They never, never wake again, who sleep upon your bed!"

     Said the cunning Spider to the Fly, "Dear friend, what can I do
     To prove the warm affection I've always felt for you?
     I have, within my pantry, good store of all that's nice;
     I'm sure you're very welcome--will you please to take a slice?"
     "Oh, no, no," said the little Fly, "kind sir, that cannot be,
     I've heard what's in your pantry, and I do not wish to see!"

     "Sweet creature," said the Spider, "you're witty and you're wise;
     How handsome are your gauzy wings, how brilliant are your eyes!
     I have a little looking-glass upon my parlor shelf;
     If you'll step in one moment, dear, you shall behold yourself."
     "I thank you, gentle sir," she said, "for what you're pleased to say,
     And bidding you good morning now, I'll call another day."

     The Spider turned him round about, and went into his den,
     For well he knew the silly Fly would soon be back again;
     So he wove a subtle web in a little corner sly,
     And set his table ready to dine upon the Fly.
     Then he came out to his door again, and merrily did sing:
     "Come hither, hither, pretty Fly, with the pearl and silver wing;
     Your robes are green and purple, there's a crest upon your head;
     Your eyes are like the diamond bright, but mine are dull as lead."

     Alas, alas! how very soon this silly little Fly,
     Hearing his wily, flattering words, came slowly flitting by:
     With buzzing wings she hung aloft, then near and nearer drew--
     Thinking only of her brilliant eyes, and green and purple hue;
     Thinking only of her crested head--poor foolish thing! At last,
     Up jumped the cunning Spider, and fiercely held her fast.
     He dragged her up his winding stair, into his dismal den
     Within his little parlor--but she ne'er came out again!


  [Illustration: "HELLO! IS THIS THE CLOVER NOOK DAIRY? PLEASE SEND ME
  SOME MILK AT ONCE. GOOD-BY"]


#Everyday Verses#

BY ALDEN ARTHUR KNIPE

PICTURES BY EMILIE BENSON KNIPE


A LITTLE GENTLEMAN

     When Mother drops things on the floor,
       My father asks me: "Who
     Should always pick them up for her?"
       And so I always do.

     He says I haven't far to reach
       And that a gentleman
     Must do things for his Mother
       And be helpful as he can.

     But Mother bends down just the same,--
       She has to, don't you see?
     For after she's said "Thank you, dear,"
       She stoops and kisses me.


TIME FOR EVERYTHING

     There's a time to run and a time to walk;
     There's a time for silence, a time for talk;
     There's a time for work and a time for play;
     There's a time for sleep at the close of day.
     There's a time for everything you do,
     For children and for grown-ups, too.
     A time to stand up and a time to sit,--
     But see that the time and actions fit.


UMBRELLAS AND RUBBERS

     Umbrellas and rubbers
       You never forget,
     Whenever it's raining
       Or snowy or wet;

     But if it should clear up,
       While you are away,
     Please bring them back home
       For the next rainy day.


WHISPERING IN SCHOOL

     "Do not whisper" is a rule
      You will find in every school,
      And the reason here is given
          In a rhyme:
      For children all will chatter
      About any little matter--
      And there'd be a dreadful clatter,
          All the time!


RECESS

         The romping boys
         Make lots of noise,
     And run and jump and laugh and shout,
         While here and there,
         With quiet air,
     The girls in couples walk about.

         A game begins,
         But no one wins,
     Although they play with might and main,
         For long before
         The game is o'er
     The bell rings out for school again.


AFTER SCHOOL

     Although we like to go to school,
       We're rather glad to put away
     Our books and slates and other things,
       When it is over for the day.

     And off we go to play and romp,
       While teacher, who is good and kind,
     Is left behind all by herself--
       But then, perhaps, she doesn't mind.


MONDAY'S LESSONS

     Study them well on Friday,
       For it's much the better way,
     Because when once they're finished
       You've all Saturday for play.


AT DINNER

     No matter where we children are
       We run in answer to the bell,
     And dinner comes in piping hot;
       It makes us hungry just to smell.

     Poor Father sharpens up his knife,
       And carves with all his might and main;
     But long before he's had a bite
       Our Willie's plate comes back again.

     We eat our vegetables and meat,
       For Mother, who is always right,
     Says those who wish to have dessert,
       Must show they have an appetite.

     And when a Sunday comes around,
       So very, very good we seem,
     You'd think 'most any one could tell
       That for dessert we'd have ice-cream.


VALOR.

BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS.

     There isn't any giant
       Within this forest grim,
     And if there were, I wouldn't be
       A bit afraid of him!


A DOMESTIC TRAGEDY

BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS

     My doll, my doll, my Annabel,
     She's really feeling far from well!
     Her wig is gone, her eyes are out,
     Her legs are left somewhere about,
     Her arms were stolen by the pup,
     The hens ate all her sawdust up,
     So all that's really left of her
     Is just her clothes and character.


THE CAPITALIST.

     I always buy at the lollipop-shop,
       On the very first day of spring,
     A bag of marbles, a spinning-top,
       And a pocketful of string.


IN MERRY ENGLAND.

BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS.

     In merry, merry England,
       In the merry month of May,
     Miss Mary Ella Montague
       Went out in best array.
     Her wise mama called out to her,
       "My darling Mary Ella,
     It looks like rain to-day, my dear;
       You'd best take your umbrella!"
     That silly girl she paid no heed
       To her dear mother's call.
     She walked at least six miles that day,
       And it never rained at all!


THE GOOSE GIRL.

BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS.

     Oh, I'm a goose, and you're a goose, and we're all geese together.
     We wander over hill and dale, all in the sweet June weather,
     While wise folk stay indoors and pore
     O'er dusty books for learning lore.
     How glad I am--how glad you are--that we're birds of a feather:
     That you're a goose, and I'm a goose, and we're all geese together!


THE PHILOSOPHER

BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS

     Let me make you acquainted with Mrs. O'Toole,
     Though she's had little learning, she's nobody's fool,
     She loves her fine geese, but when they are dead
     She'll comfort herself with a new feather bed.


EVERY-DAY VERSES

BY ALDEN ARTHUR KNIPE

PICTURES BY EMILIE BENSON KNIPE

THIRSTY FLOWERS

