Naturalists have much disputed the formation of pearls. Mr. Gray
justly observes they are merely the internal nacred coat of the shell,
which has been forced, by some extraneous cause, to assume a spherical
form. Lister, on the other hand, states "a distemper in the creature
produces them," and compares them with calculi in the kidneys of man.
But, as observed by a more recent inquirer,[12] "though they are
accidental formations, and, of course, not always to be found in the
shellfish which are known usually to contain them, still they are the
products of a regular secretion, applied, however, in an unusual way,
either to avert harm or allay irritation. That, in many instances they
are formed by the oyster, to protect itself against aggression, is
evident; for, with a plug of this nacred and solid material it shuts
out worms and other intruders which have perforated the softer shell,
and are intent on making prey of the hapless inmate: and it was
apparently the knowledge of this fact that suggested to Linnaeus his
method of producing pearls at pleasure, by puncturing the shell with a
pointed wire. But this explanation accounts only for the origin of
such pearls as are attached to the shell; while the best and greatest
number, and, indeed, the only ones which can be strung, have no such
attachment, and are formed in the body of the animal itself. 'The
small and middling pearls,' says Sir Alexander Johnston, 'are formed
in the thickest part of the flesh of the oyster, near the union of the
two shells; the large pearls almost loose in that part called the
beard.' Now, these may be the effect merely of an excess in the supply
of calcareous matter, of which the oyster wishes to get rid; or, they
may be formed by an effusion of pearl, to cover some irritating and
extraneous body." The reality of the latter theory is strengthened, if
not proved by the Chinese forcing the swan muscle to make pearls by
throwing into its shell, when open, five or six minute mother-of-pearl
beads, which, being left for a year, are found covered with a crust
perfectly resembling the real pearl. Such is one method of getting
artificial pearls. The extraneous body which naturally serves for the
nucleus, appears to be very often, or, as Sir E. Home says, always, a
blighted ovum or egg. This theory which, however, is here but partly
explained, has been fully adopted by Sir E. Home:--"if," says the
enthusiastic baronet, "I shall prove that this, the richest jewel in a
monarch's crown, which cannot be imitated by any art of man, either in
the beauty of its form or the brilliancy and lustre produced by a
central illuminated cell, is the abortive egg of an oyster enveloped
in its own nacre, of which it receives annually a layer of increase
during the life of the animal, who will not be struck with wonder and
astonishment?" And, we must add, that the proofs are very much in
favour of this conclusion.

    [12] The writer of An Introduction to the Natural History of
         Molluscous Animals, in a Series of Letters: one of the
         most delightful contributions to the _Magazine of Natural
         History_, since the establishment of that valuable
         journal.

       *       *       *       *       *


ROMAN TOMBS.


"Tombs," observes the clever author of _Rome in the Nineteenth
Century_, "formed a far more prominent feature in ancient communities
than in ours. They were not crowded into obscure churchyards, or
hidden in invisible vaults, but were sedulously spread abroad in the
most conspicuous places, and by the sides of the public ways." Hence
we may add, the "_Siste Viator_" (traveller, stop!) so common upon
tombs to this day. But why are not tombs placed by the roadside in our
times? "It would seem," says the writer just quoted, "as if these
mementos of mortality were not so painful or so saddening to Pagans as
to Christians; and, that death, when believed to be final dissolution,
was not so awful or revolting as when known to be the passage to
immortality. I pretend not to explain the paradox, I only state it;
and, certain it is, that every image connected with human dissolution,
seems now more fearful to the imagination, and is far more sedulously
shunned, than it ever was in times when the light of Christianity had
not dawned upon the world."[13]

    [13] Rome in the Nineteenth Century, vol. ii. letter 36.

The _high-ways_ do not, however, appear to have been the earliest
sites of tombs. According to Fosbroke, "the veneration with which the
ancients viewed their places of sepulture, seems to have formed the
foundation upon which they raised their boundless mythology; and, as
is supposed, with some probability, introduced the belief in national
and tutelary gods, as well as the practice of worshipping them through
the medium of statues; for the places where their heroes were
interred, when ascertained, were held especially sacred, and
frequently a temple erected over their body, hallowed the spot. It was
thus that the bodies of their fathers, _buried at the entrance of the
house_, consecrated the vestibule to their memory, and gave birth to a
host of local deities, who were supposed to hold that part of the
dwelling under their peculiar protection. Removed from the
dwelling-houses to the highways, the tombs of the departed were still
viewed as objects of the highest veneration."[14]

    [14] Encyclopaedia of Antiquities, p. 64.

Our readers may remember that the ancient Romans never permitted the
dead to be buried within the city,[15] a practice well worthy the
imitation of its modern inhabitants. One of the Laws of the Twelve
Tables was

    Hominem mortuum in urbe ne sepelito, neve urito,

(neither bury nor burn a dead body in the city.) But this law must be
understood with this limitation, that the Senate occasionally granted
exemption from it, to distinguished individuals, though so rarely,
that a tomb within the walls of Rome seems to have been considered a
reward of the most pre-eminent virtue.

    [15] See an Interesting Inquiry on Burying in Vaults, by an
         esteemed Correspondent, since deceased--in vol. xv. of
         _The Mirror_.

The tombs of the Romans were characterized by their impressive
grandeur. The Roman satirists, Juvenal and Horace, censure the pomp
and splendour of the tombs, particularly those on the Via Appia. "On
that 'Queen of Ways,' and way to the Queen of Cities, were crowded the
proud sepulchres of the most distinguished Romans: and their
mouldering remains still attest their ancient grandeur." Again, "those
who have traced the long line of the Appian Way, between its ruined
and blackening sepulchres, or stood in the Street of Tombs that leads
to the Gate of Pompeii, and gazed on the sculptured magnificence of
these marble dwellings of the dead, must have felt their solemnity,
and admired their splendour."[16]

    [16] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

Antiquarian writers have carefully classified the Roman tombs. We
have, however, only space to remark generally, that the sepulchres
were either square, circular, or pyramidal buildings, and with one
entrance only, which was invariably on the side farthest from the
public road. They usually consisted of a vault in which the urns and
sarcophagi were deposited, and a chamber above, in which the statues
or effigies of the dead were placed, and the libations and obsequies
performed. These sepulchres were usually places of family interment,
but sometimes they were solitary tombs. Of the latter description is
the _Tomb of Caecilia Metella_, which is generally acknowledged to be
the most beautiful sepulchral monument in the world. It consists of a
round tower formed of immense blocks of Tiburtine stone, fixed
together without cement, and adorned with a Doric marble frieze, on
which are sculptured rams' heads festooned with garlands of flowers.
"That they are rams' heads, must be evident to any one who will take
the trouble to examine them, though they are usually denominated the
heads of oxen, because the tomb itself is vulgarly called Capo di
Bove. But this name is obviously derived from an ox's head, (the arms
of the Gaetani family, by whom it was converted into a fortress,)
which was affixed many centuries ago on the side of the tower next the
Appian Way, and still remains there; and, accordingly, the vulgar name
is Capo di Bove, 'the head of the ox,' in the singular--not in the
plural."

[Illustration: (_Tomb of Caecilia Metella_.)]

Forsyth refers to this tomb as the only one of the ancient structures
that bears the name of its tenant; this does not appear to be correct.
The beautiful tower rests upon a square basement, which has been
despoiled of its exterior coating by Popes and other purloiners, but
the greatest part of it is buried beneath the soil. The wall of the
tower itself, the interior of which is entirely built of brick, is 20
feet at least in thickness. The sepulchral vault was below the present
level of the earth, and it was not until the time of Paul III. that it
was opened, when the beautiful marble sarcophagus of Caecilia Metella,
now in the Palazzo Farnese, was found in it. A golden urn, containing
the ashes, is said to have been discovered at the same time. That
Caecilia Metella, for whose dust this magnificent monument was raised,
was the daughter of Metellus, and the wife of Crassus, is all we know.
"Her husband, who was the richest and meanest of the Romans, had
himself no grave. He perished miserably with a Roman army in the
deserts of the East, in that unsuccessful expedition against the
Parthians which has stamped his memory with incapacity and shame."[17]
The rude battlements on the top of the tower, and all the old walls
and fortifications which surround it, are the work of the Gaetani
family, who long maintained their feudal warfare here. Forsyth
observes:--"Crassus built this tomb of travertine stone 24 feet thick,
to secure the bones of a single woman; while the adjoining castle had
but a thin wall of soft tufo to defend all the Gaetani from the fury
of civil war." Eustace says: "The solidity and simplicity of this
monument are worthy of the republican era in which it was erected, and
have enabled it to resist and survive the lapse and incidents of two
thousand years."[18]

    [17] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

    [18] Classical Tour, vol. i., p. 407.

Next is the grey pyramidal Tomb of Caius Cestius, in the fields called
_Prati del Popolo Romano_, on the western side of the Aventine Hill.
This ancient monument remains entire, an advantage which it owes
partly to its form, well calculated to resist the action of the
weather, and partly to its situation, as it is joined to the walls of
the city, and forms part of the fortification. Its base is about 90
feet square, and it rises, according to Eustace, about 120 feet in
height. It is formed, or at least encrusted, with large blocks of
white marble; a door in the base opens into a gallery terminating in a
small room, ornamented with paintings on the stucco, in regular
compartments. In this chamber of the dead, once stood a sarcophagus
that contained the remains of Cestius. "At the base of the pyramid
stand two marble columns, which were found beneath the ground, and
re-erected by some of the popes. One foot, which is all that remains
of the colossal statue in bronze of Caius Cestius, that formerly stood
before his tomb, is now in the Museum of the Capitol."[19]

    [19] Rome, &c., vol. ii.--From the monument we learn that he
         was the contemporary of Caesar and Augustus, but his name
         does not appear in the annals, or the literature of that
         eventful and enlightened period; of his wealth, and of
         his pride, this magnificent tomb is a sufficient record:
         but of his merits or his virtues, no trace remains. The
         inscription only tells us he was one of the seven
         Epulones, whose office was to furnish and to eat the
         sacred banquets offered to Jupiter and the Gods.

The situation of this tomb is one of melancholy picturesqueness. The
meadows in which it stands are planted with mulberry-trees. They were,
as implied by their name, formerly a resort of the Roman people in
hours of gladness: they are no longer devoted to the enjoyment of the
living, but to the repose of the dead; "bright and beautiful in the
first days of the year was the verdure that covered the meadows of the
Roman people."[20] They are now the burial-place of Protestants, and
consequently, of foreigners only: by far the greatest part of the
strangers interred here are English.

    [20] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

[Illustration: (_Tomb of Caius Cestius_.)]

Time has changed the colour and defaced the polish of the marble
pyramid. The grey lichen has crept over it, and wild evergreens hang
from its crevices. But, what it has lost in splendour it has gained in
picturesque beauty; and there are few remains of antiquity within the
bounds of the Eternal City, that the eye rests upon with such
unwearying admiration as this grey pyramid.

Lastly is the reputed _Tomb of the Horatii and Curatii_.

Its identity has been much controverted, and the Cut shows it to be a
ruinous pile capped with luxuriant foliage. It will, nevertheless,
serve to illustrate the stupendous character of the ancient Roman
tombs.

[Illustration: (_Tomb of the Horatii and Curatii_.)]

The theatre of the celebrated combat between the Horatii and Curatii
lies about five miles from the city of Rome. Several tombs stand on
the side of the hillock that borders these fields, but no one in
particular is _there_ pointed out as belonging to the unhappy
champions. The monuments, however, existed in Livy's time, and Eustace
supposes that "as their forms and materials were probably very plain
and very solid, they must have remained for many ages after, and may
be some of the many mounds that still stand in clusters about the very
place where they fell." This explanation will not, however, refer to
the above engraving, as the buildings in the distance will show.

       *       *       *       *       *


NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *


BOYHOOD AND EDUCATION OF JAMES THE FIRST.

(_From Lives of Scottish Worthies_, vol. 2.)


[James I. king of Scotland was born in 1394. In 1405, he was sent by
his father, Robert III., to France to escape the danger to which he
was exposed by the ambition of his uncle, but being taken by an
English squadron, he and his whole suite were carried prisoners to the
Tower of London. Here he received an excellent education from Henry
IV. of England, who placed him under the care of Sir John de Pelham,
constable of Pevensey Castle, to which the youthful and royal captive
was conducted. Pelham was a man of note, both as a statesman and a
warrior, and on all occasions, Henry appears to have manifested for
him a high esteem and consideration. The youthful portrait of James is
thus drawn by Mr. Tytler in the above-named work.]

He had just reached the age of eleven years, when the young candidate
for knighthood was usually taken out of the hands of the women to whom
his infancy and extreme boyhood had been intrusted and when it was
thought proper for him to commence his education in earnest. It was at
this age that the parents selected some veteran and able soldier of
noble family, under whose roof their son was placed, and in whose
castle, commencing his services in the capacity of a page, he received
his instruction in the exercises and accomplishments befitting his
condition. Thus Edward the Black Prince delivered his young son
Richard, afterwards Richard II., to Sir Guiscard d'Angle as his
military tutor; esteeming him one of the most experienced and
distinguished knights in his service. We read also that Henry IV.
intrusted the education of his son Henry, afterwards the great Henry
V., to Sir Thomas Percy, a brave and veteran warrior, afterwards Earl
of Worcester; and on the same principle the English king, although,
for reasons of state, he determined to retain the King of Scotland in
his own hands, generously selected for him a military governor, whose
character was a guarantee for his being brought up in a manner
suitable to his royal rank.

It was soon seen that the pupil was not unworthy of the master. In all
athletic and manly exercises, in the use of his weapons, in his skill
in horsemanship, his speed in running, his strength and dexterity as a
wrestler, his firm and fair aim as a jouster and tourneyer, the young
king is allowed by all contemporary writers to have arrived at a pitch
of excellence which left most of the competitors of his own age behind
him; and, as he advanced to maturity, his figure, although not so tall
as to be majestic or imposing, was, from its make, peculiarly adapted
for excellence in such accomplishments. His chest was broad and full,
his arms somewhat long and muscular, his flanks thin and spare, and
his limbs beautifully formed; so as to combine elegance and lightness
with strength. In throwing the hammer, and propelling, or, to use the
Scottish phrase, "putting" the stone, and in skill in archery, we have
the testimony of an ancient chronicler, that none in his own dominions
could surpass him; so that the constable of Pevensey appears to have
done ample justice to his youthful charge.

But this formed only one division of his education. To skill in these
warlike exercises, every youthful candidate for honour and for
knighthood was expected to unite a variety of more pacific and elegant
accomplishments, which were intended to render him a delightful
companion in the hall, as the others were calculated to make him a
formidable enemy in the field. The science of music, both instrumental
and vocal; the composition and recitation of ballads, roundelays, and
other minor pieces of poetry; an acquaintance with the romances and
the writings of the popular poets of the times; were all essential
branches in the system of education which was then adopted in the
castle of every feudal chief; and from Pelham, who had himself been
brought up as the squire of the Duke of Lancaster, we may be confident
that the Scottish king received every advantage which could be
conferred by skilful instructors, and by the most ample opportunities
of cultivation and improvement. Such lessons and exhibitions, however,
might have been thrown away upon many; but James had been born with
those natural capacities which fitted him to excel in them. He
possessed a fine and correct musical ear; a voice which was rich,
flexible, and sufficiently powerful for chamber music; and an
enthusiastic delight in the art, which, unless controlled by strong
good sense, and a feeling of the higher destinies to which he was
called, might have led to a dangerous devotion to it. The peril of
such over-cultivation of this fascinating art does not appear to have
been so common in those days as in our own. The brave and accomplished
military leader, Sir John Chandos, sang sweetly, and solaced his
master, Edward III., on a voyage, by his ballads; the same veteran
soldier did not think himself demeaned by introducing a new German
dance into England; and the Count de Foix frequently requested his
secretaries, in the intervals of severer occupation to recreate
themselves by chanting songs and roundelays.[21]

    [21] Archaeologia, vol. xx. p. 59.

Cut off for a long and tedious period from his crown and his people,
James could afford to spend many hours in each tedious day of his
captivity in the cultivation of accomplishments to which, under other
circumstances, it would have been criminal to have given up so much of
his time. And this will easily account for that high musical
excellence to which he undoubtedly attained, and will explain the
great variety of instruments upon which he performed. Besides, to use
the words of a learned and amusing writer, it is well known that
"music constituted a part of the quadrivium, a branch of their system
of education, and it was more or less cultivated by persons of all
conditions;"--churchmen studied it by profession; and the students at
the Inns of Court learned singing and all kinds of music. Richard II.
understood something of the practical part of it; for, on the day of
his departure for Ireland, he assisted at divine service; with the
canons of St. George, and chanted a collect. An old annalist,
enumerating the qualifications of Henry IV., describes him as of
shining talents in music [_in musica micans_]; whilst Stow says of
Henry V., "he delighted in songs, meeters, and musical instruments."[22]
These examples appear amply sufficient to defend King James from any
imputation of over-refinement or effeminacy in the cultivation of an
art which was the favourite amusement of such monarchs as Henry IV.
and his illustrious son.

    [22] Ibid pp. 60, 61.

But during the leisure which was afforded by his tedious captivity, it
is certain that James applied himself to severer studies than either
his military exercises or his cultivation of music. He was acquainted
with the Latin language, as far, at least, as was permitted by the
rude and barbarous condition in which it existed previous to the
revival of letters. In theology, oratory, and grammar, in the civil
and the canon laws, he was instructed by the best masters; and an
acquaintance with Norman French was necessarily acquired at a court,
and amongst a people, where it was still currently spoken, and highly
cultivated. Devoted, however, as he was to these pursuits, James
appears to have given his mind with a still stronger bias to the study
of English poetry, choosing Chaucer and Gower for his masters in the
art, and entering with the utmost ardour into the great object of the
first of these illustrious men,--the improvement of the English
language, the production of easy and natural rhymes, and the
refinement of poetical numbers, from the rude compositions which had
preceded him.[23] In the concluding stanza of the King's Quair, a work
composed by the Scottish King shortly before his return to his
kingdom, he apostrophizes Gower and Chaucer as his dear masters, who
sat upon the highest steps of rhetoric, and whose genius as poets,
orators, and moralists, entitled them to receive the most exalted
honour.

    [23] Ellis's Specimens, vol. i. p. 205.

  Unto the hymis of my maisteris dere,
    Gowere and Chaucere, that on steppis satt
  Of rhetorick, quhill thai war lyvand here,
      Superlative as poets laureate,
      In moralitee and eloquence ornate,
  I recommend my buik in lynis seven,
  And eke their saulis unto the blisse of hevin.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE BATTLE OF WATERLOO.

(_From the Private Correspondence of a Woman of Fashion._)


Bruxelles, June 24, 1815.

On the first day we had so little idea of the vicinity of the
engagement, that I drove out with a Belgian family in an open carriage
towards the Bois de Soignies. But we were obliged to retreat
precipitately, and take another direction across the country, and pass
through a different _barrière_ through the town to my residence. They
wished me to accept an instant asylum with them. The house of Monsieur
D'H---- was built over part of the old palace; and he had prepared one
of the extensive _caves_ for his family, in the event of the town
being given up to the sword and rapine. I promised to avail myself of
their kind offer, should the peril become more urgent; but I resolved
to remain another day in our villa. Towards five the following
morning, I was roused from the sofa on which I had thrown myself, by
the trampling of horses, and the cries of the people of the suburbs. I
flew to the window and beheld a troop of Belgians in full flight,
covered, not with glory, but with dust, galloping towards the town! I
heard the gates close against them, and saw them scamper over the
plain towards Lacken. The mob increased; their shrieks of terror rent
the air,--"Les François sont ici! Ils s'emparent de la porte de la
ville!" mingled with the cries of the women, and with those of my
little household, who all rushed into my chamber, expecting me to save
them. In the midst of this terror, I heard the well-known voice of the
commander of the town, Colonel Jones, vociferating with all the energy
and passion of a Welchman. In my distraction, I ran out to him; he
_stormed_, and explained in no gentle terms, that it was a false
alarm, caused by the _sudden nervous affection_ of the troop of
Belgians I had seen in flight. He commanded me to quit my house, and
kindly sent me a carriage to secure my entrance into the town. We were
cheered in the hurry of quitting our rural abode, by the arrival of
some thousands of British troops; many of the poor fellows, heated and
languid, entered asking for water to quench their thirst. From them I
learnt that they had returned to England from America, and, without
being permitted to land, were immediately ordered to Ostend. I felt
what might be their influence on the fate of that day, and selfishly
partook of their impatience to arrive on the field of battle. The
whole of Saturday we believed the battle lost; and _there are those_
who think that it _was, but_ for the mysterious conduct of Grouchy, or
the treason of the estafettes sent to summon him to advance.

The English families continued to fly towards Ostend: the roads and
inns were crowded; the living bewailing their temerity, close to the
chambers of the dead! Your brother and sister were at Antwerp, in the
next room to the unfortunate Duc de Brunswick. The awful hours passed
tardily with me, in pangs for the soldier and his chiefs. On Saturday
the 17th, to add to the accumulating horrors of our critical
situation, the very elements vented forth their wrath, in the most
tremendous thunder and lightning; the rain poured in torrents; all
nature was at fearful strife, and God's anger was apparent; for it
seemed as if the very heavens were warring against man's quarrel; and
in my agony I exclaimed with Macbeth--

  "'Twas a rough night--"

as I listened to the pelting storm, crouching on a mattress by the
side of my weeping _émigrée_, imploring me for words of comfort.
Towards morning the rain abated, but gloomy clouds ushered in that
eventful day. At two o'clock I dined with Monsieur D'H----, whose
daughter-in-law, la Comtesse de P----'s first-born son, had seen the
light of this world only a few hours before--while at dinner, the
servants rushed into the room in disorder, exclaiming, "All is over!"
A detachment of dragoons, which passed a few hours ago to join the
enemy, are returned! We rose precipitately; Mr. D'H---- took a key
from a drawer, and commanded us to follow him. We traversed rapidly
the chamber of the invalid lady, each inconsiderately repeating to
her--"All is lost!" We ascended a dilapidated staircase, and passing
through a small trap-door, what was my astonishment, when I found
myself in the Park! There we beheld the said detachment of
dragoons--an affrighted mob; and many sinister-looking persons, who
seemed well satisfied at the evidence of our fears. The gentlemen
rushed out of the adjoining _café_, the English calling for their
servants and horses, (many of whom, by the way, who had never
possessed any;) one of these _fainted_--no heart of oak was _he_, when
our ancient Briton, the commandant, Colonel Jones, again presented
himself, _vif et emporté_. The spectators exclaimed--"que cela venoit
de la trop rapide circulation de son sang." _N'importe_: the choleric
Colonel, blustering, restored us to comparative tranquillity, as he
brandished on high his sword, giving it an after-sweeping movement, as
if to _moissonner nos têtes_; my valiant compatriot extended on the
pavement was the only head in security. The Colonel commanded the
misled dragoons to return; and it appeared that they had encountered
some miscreants, disguised as British officers, who gave them a forged
official order to retreat "the battle being lost!" We descended
through our trap-door, and re-assured our friend the Comtesse, who
seemed to have received our intelligence (_en passant_) with as
perfect calmness as that in which lay her new-born babe.

To add to my discomfort, deep and loud were the murmurs on Sunday
against the Duke. The merchants said his Grace ought not to have
lingered in the _salons_ of amusement one instant after he had been
apprised that Napoleon had quitted Paris, whose gigantic strides all
Europe had experienced during many long years. They even denounced his
life; while others, more moderate but equally incensed, had commenced
a written remonstrance to the British Government: in such an excited
state were men's minds!--Victory silenced these despairing
murmurers--success casts its vivid radiance over the hero's fame; what
so potent as its influence!

I took leave of my Belgian friends, who promised to come for me (in
case of a fatal termination), to share their safety, and partake of
the good cheer they had prepared for our seclusion in the devastated
_caves_ of that palace, which in olden time were filled with the
finest produce of Rhenish vintages. At three o'clock entered the good
Abbé Bernard, holding up to view a paper with large characters
imprinted--"The French flying!--the City saved!--Victory!" Never shall
I forget my sensations at that joyful, yet awful moment of restored
peace to mankind! The bells of the different churches chimed the
exhilarating note of victory! The good priest announced that _Te Deum_
was celebrating, and invited me to accompany them to the noble
cathedral, St. Gudule. "What signify forms?" the good man said: "let
us lift up our hearts in grateful thanksgiving to the only true God!"
That noble temple of the Almighty was already thronged. Voices, so
late stricken in terror, now soared aloft in celestial sounds to the
throne of Heaven!--all was congratulation. But, alas, profound regrets
soon mingled with my joyful sensations, as I cast my eyes around, and
encountered only mangled objects, who, chilled and exhausted, were
crowding into the town (and are still arriving on _this_, the 6th
day). We were addressed, with solicitations, by enfeebled heroes, to
be shown to hospitals. We found it impossible to return to our villa,
from the confusion of military baggage, &c. &c., while the English,
even females of rank, with eager curiosity were hastening to the scene
of carnage! The noise of their chariot-wheels, mingling with the moans
of the dying, and the cries of parents and relatives in search of
their sons and their kindred, formed a scene that must have moved the
coldest heart, and that _never_ can be _effaced_ from my memory!

In traversing La Grande Place, I was attracted to a kind of military
vehicle, by the voice of plaintive distress appealing for my succour,
reiterating the word _compatriote_. On approaching, I beheld a
handsome and interesting-looking female, in equestrian costume;--by
her side were two servants, and two very fine saddle-horses. A tent,
and some baggage-wagons, belonging to some regiment, appeared to be
included in her train. She announced herself to me as the wife of
Captain ----, aid-de-camp to General C----: by some mistake of orders,
fatal to her peace of mind, the baggage of her husband's regiment had
not been included in the general orders for following the army.
Anguish was expressed on her fine countenance. She knew only that we
were victorious; but she knew not whether her husband was to be
numbered with the dead, or with the living. She was without resource,
and unacquainted with the French language. She appealed to my
protection, and pointed to her servants to corroborate her statement.
Fatigued in mind as I was, yet how impossible to hesitate an instant!
I immediately conducted her to the librarian, who gave me a room; and
I sent for refreshments, and fain would have persuaded her to attempt
seeking some repose; but her mental sufferings were too great to
permit her to remain tranquil. She declared that nothing should
prevent her following the army to Paris, beseeching me to obtain
permission for her to ride on with the first detachment that quitted
the city. I was obliged to comply, for there is no reasoning with the
anxious mind of an attached wife! and I presented myself before our
choleric commandant. Being in black, I was mistaken for a hapless
widow, and all pressed to offer me service. I found Captain W----, who
immediately interested himself, and I had the supreme pleasure of not
only obtaining an escort, but of receiving the certain assurance of
her gallant husband's safety. She spent the evening with us, and
created a general interest. She had accompanied her husband in the
campaigns in Spain, soon after a marriage _purement d'inclination_.
Captain ---- had been brought up to the Bar; but the mania of war
seized him, and he preferred figuring in the _Army List_, and
practising military tactics, to studying _Burn's Justice_ and
_Blackstone's Commentaries_. She would not lose sight of her new
friend; and at four o'clock on Tuesday morning I conducted her to the
Porte de Namur, where I found the promised escort with two officers,
to whom I could assign her with confidence. She sprang into her saddle
with an alacrity, that expressed she was going to join the husband of
her affection; and she promised to present him to me in Paris.

Old C----, one of the "all-talented Whigs," who you know is half a
buffoon, was a torment to us during the fearful period of the three
days--running to and fro, standing in every body's way, seeking and
reporting news, exclaiming, "but the battle cannot be lost--I do not
see the army in retreat," &c. &c. At length, the battle over, England
victorious, the Duke on Monday rode quietly into Bruxelles, to make
arrangements for the wounded, &c. C---- rushes to his apartment to
make his compliments.

"Thirty thousand men lost!" replied the Duke.

"But what a victory!"

"Thirty thousand men killed!--hard case!"--still answered the Duke,
with his usual simplicity of expression when speaking of his own
exploits. C----, who knew not what diffidence was, nor could discover
its merits in another, retreated in evident disappointment at his
compliments of felicitation having the appearance of being so little
appreciated; almost doubtful, whether Wellington was in truth a hero,
or whether the battle was really gained!

