"And Barrière's?"

"That was the year before. Avenius' plot was that year too."

"And the Italian's from Milan, of whom the Capuchin Honorio warned us?"

"That was two years ago, sire."

"And how many more attempts have there been against my person?" he
continued, in a tone of extreme sadness. "Rosny, my friend, they must
succeed at last. No man can fight against his fate. The end is sure,
notwithstanding your fidelity and vigilance, and the love you bear me,
for which I love you, too. But Nicholas? Nicholas? And yet he has been
careless and distraught of late. I have noticed it; and a month back I
refused to give him an appointment, of which he wished to have the
sale."

I did not dare to speak, and for a time Henry too remained silent. At
length he rose with an air of resolution.

"We will clear up this matter within an hour!" he said. "I will send my
people back to the Louvre, and do you, Grandmaster, order half a dozen
Swiss to be ready to conduct us to this woman's house. When we have
heard her we shall know what to do."

I tried my utmost to dissuade him, pleading that his presence could not
be necessary, and might prove a hindrance; besides exposing his person
to a certain amount of risk. But he would not listen. When I saw,
therefore, that his mind was made up, and that as his spirits rose he
was inclined to welcome this expedition as a relief from the _ennui_
which at times troubled him, I reluctantly withdrew my opposition and
gave the necessary orders. The King dismissed his suite with a few
words, and in a short space we were on our way, under cover of darkness,
to the secretary's house.

He lived at this time in a court off the Rue St. Jacques, not far from
the church of that name; and the house being remote from the eyes and
observation of the street, seemed not unfit for secret and desperate
uses. Although we noted lights shining behind several of the barred
windows, the wintry night, the darkness of the court, and perhaps the
errand on which we came, imparted so gloomy an aspect to the place that
the King hitched forward his sword, and I begged him to permit the Swiss
to go on with us. This, however, he would not allow, and they were left
at the entrance to the court with orders to follow at a given signal.

On the steps the King, who, to disguise himself the better, had borrowed
one of my cloaks, stumbled and almost fell. This threw him into a fit of
laughter; for no sooner was he engaged in an adventure which promised
peril, than his spirits rose to such a degree as to make him the most
charming companion in danger man ever had. He was still shaking, and
pulling me to and fro in one of those boyish frolics which at times
swayed him, when a loud outcry inside the house startled us into
sobriety, and reminded us of the business which brought us thither.

Wondering what it might mean, I was for rapping on the door with my
hilt. But the King put me aside, and, by a happy instinct, tried the
latch. The door yielded to his hand, and gave us admittance.

We found ourselves in a gloomy hall, ill-lit, and hung with patched
arras. In one corner stood a group of servants. Of these some looked
scared and some amused, but all were so much taken up with the movements
of a harsh-faced woman, who was pacing the opposite side of the hall,
that they did not heed our entrance. A glance showed me that the woman
was Madame Nicholas; but I was still at a loss to guess what she was
doing or what was happening in the house.

I stood a moment, and then finding that in her excitement she took no
notice of us, I beckoned to one of the servants, and bade him tell his
mistress that a gentleman would speak with her. The man went with the
message; but she sent him off with a flea in his ear, and screamed at
him so violently that for a moment I thought she was mad. Then it
appeared that the object of her attention was a door at that side of the
hall; for, stopping suddenly in her walk, she went up to it, and struck
on it passionately and repeatedly with her hands.

"Come out!" she cried. "Come out, you villain! Your friends shall not
save you!"

Restraining the King, I went forward myself, and, saluting her, begged a
word with her apart, thinking that she would recognize me.

Her answer showed that she did not. "No!" she cried, waving me off, in
the utmost excitement. "No; you will not get me away! You will not! I
know your tricks. You are as bad one as the other, and shield one
another come what will!" Then turning again to the door, she continued,
"Come out! Do you hear! Come out! I will have no more of your intrigues
and your Hallots!"

I pricked up my ears at the name. "But, Madame," I said, "one moment."

"Begone!" she retorted, turning on me so wrathfully that I fairly
recoiled before her. "I shall stay here till I drop; but I will have him
out and expose him. There shall be an end of his precious plots and his
Hallots if I have to go to the King!"

Words so curiously _à propos_ could not but recall to my mind the
confusion into which the mention of Du Hallot had thrown the secretary
earlier in the day. And since they seemed also to be consistent with the
warning conveyed to me, they should have corroborated my suspicions. But
a sense of something unreal and fantastic, with which I could not
grapple, continued to puzzle me in the presence of this angry woman; and
it was with no great assurance that I said, "Do I understand then,
madame, that M. du Hallot is in that room?"

"Monsieur du Hallot?" she replied, in a tone that was almost a scream.
"No: but Madame du Hallot is, and he would be if he had taken the hint I
sent him! He would be! But I will have no more secrecy, and no more
plots. I have suffered enough, and now Madame shall suffer if she has
not forgotten how to blush. Are you coming out there?" she continued,
once more applying herself to the door, her face inflamed with passion.
"I shall stay! Oh, I shall stay, I assure you, until you do come. Until
morning if necessary!"

"But, Madame," I said, beginning to see daylight, and finding words with
difficulty--for already I heard in fancy the King's laughter, and
conjured up the quips and cranks with which he would pursue me--"your
warning did not perhaps reach M. du Hallot?"

"It reached his coach, at any rate," the scold retorted. "But another
time I will have no half measures. As for that," she continued, turning
on me suddenly with her arms akimbo, and the fiercest of airs, "I would
like to know what business it is of yours, Monsieur, whether it reached
him or not! I know you,--you are in league with my husband! You are here
to shelter him, and this Madame du Hallot who is within here! And with
whom he has been carrying on these three months! But----"

At that moment the door at last opened; and M. Nicholas, wearing an
aspect so meek and crestfallen that I hardly knew him, came out. He was
followed by a young woman plainly dressed, and looking almost as much
frightened as himself; in whom I had no difficulty in recognizing
Felix's wife.

"Why!" Madame Nicholas cried, her face falling. "This is not--who is
this? Who--" with increased vehemence--"is this baggage, I would like to
know? This shameless creature, that----"

"My dear," the secretary protested, spreading out his hands--fortunately
he had eyes only for his wife and did not see us--"this is one of your
ridiculous mistakes! It is, I assure you. This is the wife of a clerk
whom I dismissed to-day, and she has been with me begging me to
reinstate her husband. That is all. That is all, my dear, in truth it
is. You have made this dreadful outcry for nothing. I assure you----"

I heard no more, for, taking advantage of the obscurity of the hall, and
the preoccupation of the couple, I made for the door, and passing out
into the darkness, found myself in the embrace of the King; who, seizing
me about the neck, laughed on my shoulder until he cried, continually
adjuring me to laugh also, and ejaculating between the paroxysms, "Poor
du Hallot! Poor du Hallot!" With many things of the same nature, which
any one acquainted with court life may supply for himself.

I confess I did not on my part find it so easy to laugh: partly because
I am not of so gay a disposition as that great prince, and partly
because I cannot see the ludicrous side of events in which I myself take
part. But on the King assuring me that he would not betray the secret
even to La Varenne, I took comfort, and gradually reconciled myself to
an episode which, unlike the more serious events it now becomes my duty
to relate, had only one result, and that unimportant. I mean the
introduction to my service of the clerk Felix; who, proving worthy of
confidence, remained with me after the lamentable death of the King my
master, and is to-day one of those to whom I entrust the preparation of
these Memoirs.


PART III

KING TERROR


A DAUGHTER OF THE GIRONDE


In a room on the second floor of a house in the Rue Favart in Paris--a
large room scantily and untidily furnished--a man sat reading by the
light of an oil lamp. The hour was late, the night a July night in the
year 1794--year two of the Republic. The house already slumbered round
him; the sounds of Paris rose to his ears softened by night and
distance. Intent on his work, he looked up from time to time to make a
note; or, drawing the lamp a little nearer he trimmed its wick and set
it back. When this happened, the light falling strongly on his face, and
bringing into relief its harsh lines and rugged features, showed him to
be a man past middle life, grey-haired, severe, almost forbidding of
aspect.

Peaceful as his occupation seemed, there was something in the air of the
room which suggested change, even danger. The floor was littered with
packing cases and with books piled together at random. On the low
bedstead lay a travelling cloak; on the table, by the reader's hand, lay
a pistol and beside it one of the huge sabres which were then in
fashion. Nor were these signs without meaning. The man reading on, wrapt
and unconscious, in his upper room, merely followed his bent. He read
and reasoned, though in the great city round him the terror of the
Revolution was at its height; though the rattle of the drum had scarcely
ceased with nightfall, and the last tumbril was even now being wheeled
back into its shed.

For men grow strangely callous. The danger which impends daily and every
day ceases to be feared. Achille Mirande had seen the chiefs of his
party fall round him. He had seen Pétion and Barbaroux, Louvet and
Vergniaud die--the Girondins who had dreamed with him of a republic of
property, free and yet law-abiding. Nor had his experiences stopped
there. He had seen his foes perish also, the Hébertists first and later
the Dantonists. But for himself--death seemed to have passed him by.
Danger had become second nature; the very rumbling of the tumbrils
passing his house on the way to the guillotine had ceased to be anything
but annoying; until to-day, to avoid the interruption, he had left his
house in the Rue St. Honoré and established himself in this empty flat
in the little Rue Favart.

By-and-by he laid down the book he was reading and fell into deep
meditation. As he sat thus, alone and silent in the silent room, a
sound, which a keener ear would have noticed before, attracted his
attention. Startled in a degree by it, he roused himself; he looked
round. "A rat, I suppose," he muttered. Yet he continued to peer with
suspicion into the corner whence the sound had come, and presently he
heard it again. The next instant he sprang to his feet; phantom-like a
door in the panelled wall at the back of the room--a door in the wall
where there should have been no door--was swinging, nay, had swung open.
While he glared at it, hardly believing his senses, a man appeared
standing in the dark aperture.

The man was young and of middle height. Dazzled by the light, and
suffering apparently from weakness, he paused, leaning for support
against the doorway. His eyes were bright, his sunken cheeks told of
fever or famine. His clothes stained and dusty, and his unkempt hair,
added to the wildness of his appearance. For a moment he and the owner
of the room glared at one another in speechless wonder. Then a name
sprang to the lips of each.

"Monsieur Mirande!" the younger man muttered.

"De Bercy!" exclaimed the other.

The stranger said no more, but shaking with agitation walked to a chair
and sat down. Mirande, his face rigid with passion, stood in silence and
watched him do it. Then the Republican found his voice.

"You villain!" he cried, advancing a step, his manner menacing. "Was it
not enough that you stole into my house and robbed me of my daughter?
Was it not enough that you led her to forfeit her life in your plots and
then left her to die? Was not this enough, that you now come and insult
me by your presence?"

The young man raised his hand in deprecation, but seemed unable to
reply. Mirande, gazing pitilessly at him, presently read his silence
aright, and an expression of cruel joy altered his features.

"I understand," he said grimly. "I see all now. You have been in hiding
here. To be sure, your name has been on the list of suspects these three
months. And you all the time have been starving like a rat behind the
panels! Well, you shall have food and wine. You shall eat, you shall
drink. I would not for the world have you cheat the guillotine."

He went to a cupboard as he spoke, and, taking from it bread and wine,
he placed them before the other. The young man made a slight gesture, as
though he would have refused them; but his pale face flushed with desire
negatived the action, the momentary resistance of his pride gave way,
and he ate and drank, sparingly, yet with the craving of a man
half-famished.

"I have not tasted food for three days," he murmured presently, looking
up with a glance of apology. The wine had already done its work. He
looked a different man. His hand was steady, his cheeks wore a more
healthy colour. "M. Chareloi hid me here," he went on, "but a week ago I
heard a disturbance in the house, and coming out when all was quiet I
found it empty and locked. I fear he was arrested."

"He was guillotined five days ago," the Girondin replied with brutal
frankness.

"Why? For what?" the young man exclaimed.

"As a suspect," Mirande answered, shrugging his shoulders.

Bercy had partly risen from his chair. He sat down again, stunned.

"Things move quickly nowadays," Mirande continued, with a ferocious
smile. "To the Luxembourg, thence to the Conciergerie, thence to the
Place de la Revolution is a journey of three days at most; and the path
is well trodden. You will find yourself in good company, M. de Bercy."

"You will give me up?"

"Ay!" the Republican answered hoarsely. He had risen, and stood facing
his antagonist, his hands on the table, his face flushed and swollen.
"Ay, though you were my own son! What have you not done to me? You crept
like a snake into my house, and robbed me of my daughter!"

"I made her my wife!" the Vicomte answered, with calm pride.

"Ay, and then? After that act of mighty condescension you led her to
take part in your vile plot, and when she was discovered and arrested,
you left her to pay the penalty. You left her to die alone rather than
risk one hair of your miserable head!"

The young man sprang to his feet in sudden ungovernable excitement. "It
is false!" he cried. "False!"

"It is true!" Mirande retorted, striking the table so violently that the
room rang again and the flame of the lamp leapt up and for an instant
dyed the two angry faces with a lurid gleam.

"I say it is false!" the Vicomte replied sternly. "On the contrary,
being at Rheims when I heard that Corinne was arrested, I took horse on
the instant. I rode for Paris as a man rides for life. I was anxious to
give myself up in her place if I could save her in no other way. But at
Meaux, M. Mirande, I met your agent----"

"And went back to Rheims again and into hiding," the other continued,
with a bitter sneer, "after sending me, her father, the shameful message
that your duty to your race forbade the last of the Bercys to die for a
merchant's daughter."

"I sent that message, do you say? I? I?" the young man cried.

"Yes, you! Who else? You--sent it after hearing from me that if you
would surrender, the Committee of Safety would suffer her to escape! So
much my services had wrung from them--in vain. What? Do you deny that
you met my agent at night in the yard of the Three Kings at Meaux, M. le
Vicomte?"

"I met him," the young man answered firmly, though his frame was a-shake
with excitement. "But I did not send that message by him! Nor did he
give me such a message as you state. On the contrary, he told me that I
was too late, that my wife had suffered two days before; and that you
bade me save myself, if I could."

"Ay, she suffered," Mirande answered ironically. "But it was four days
later. And for the rest you tell me nothing but lies, and clumsy ones."

"What I tell you," the Vicomte rejoined, with a solemnity which at last
enforced the other's attention, "is as true as that I loved my wife and
would have died to save her. I swear it!"

M. Mirande passed his hand over his brow, and stood for a moment gazing
at his son-in-law. There was a new expression, an expression almost of
fear, in his eyes.

"Should you know the messenger again?" he asked at last.

"I do not think I should," the Vicomte answered. "He inquired for me by
the name upon which we had agreed. We were together for a few minutes
only, and the night was dark, the only light a distant lanthorn."

"Would he know you, do you think?"

"I cannot say."

M. Mirande shrugged his shoulders, and strode half a dozen times up and
down the room, his face dark with thought, with suspicion, with
uncertainty. At length he stopped before his son-in-law.

"Listen to me," he said, meeting and striving to read the young man's
eyes. "It is possible that what you say is true and that you are not the
coward I have thought you. In that case you shall have justice at my
hands. Before I give you up to the Committee of Safety, who will deal
shortly with you, I will resolve the doubt. Until I find the means to
solve it, you may stay here."

"Indeed?" cried the young man proudly. "But what if I am not willing to
be beholden to you?"

"Then you have your alternative!" Mirande answered coolly. "Come with me
to the nearest Guard House, and I will inform against you. After all, it
will be the shortest way. It was only that being a citizen, and not a
_ci-devant_, I wished to do justice--even to you."

The young man hesitated. He had spoken truly when he suggested that he
was unwilling to be beholden to Mirande. But the alternative meant
certain death.

"I will stop," he said, after a pause, shrugging his shoulders as he
accepted the strange offer made him. "Why should I not? It is your agent
who has lied, not I."

"We shall see," replied the other, without emotion. "There is one thing,
however, I must name to you. I know that you are a gallant among the
ladies, M, de Bercy. My daughter Claire, who was at the seminary when
you visited me before, is now at home. You will kindly restrict your
intercourse with her to the most formal limits. Unfortunately," he
continued, with a strange bitterness in his tone, "she is like her
sister, and the same arts that won the one, may win the other from the
path of duty."

"For shame, sir!" the young noble answered, his eyes sparkling with
indignation. "You insult, not me, but your dead daughter! Do you think
that I loved her for her fortune alone? Or that her very image,
untenanted by her soul, would satisfy me?"

"They were singularly alike," Mirande muttered with a grim shrug. "God
knows! At any rate you are warned."

The young man shot at him an angry glance, but said no more; and
Mirande, seeming to be satisfied that his condition was accepted,
dropped the subject and proceeded to show his guest where he might
sleep; for the latter felt a natural reluctance to return to his narrow
prison behind the wainscot. In a few minutes the light was extinguished
and the two men, thus strangely brought together again, lay a few feet
from one another; the mind of each turning in the stillness of the
night, to the link which had bound them, nay, which still bound them in
a forced and uncongenial union.

The Vicomte was aware that his host ran a certain risk in sheltering
him. The supremacy which Robespierre had won at this time, and the
desperate lengths to which he had gone, exposed all who were not of his
immediate following to a jealousy that had already hurried to the
guillotine the chiefs of half a dozen sections of the Republican party.
Mirande, as one of the few surviving Girondins and as a man still
possessing friends and influence was peculiarly obnoxious to suspicion.
The slightest accusation, the word of a servant, the hint of a rival,
would suffice to despatch him also along the path which so many trod
daily.

The Vicomte, therefore, on rising in the morning, proposed to withdraw
to his hiding-place. M. Mirande, however, a little to his guest's
surprise, would not hear of this; observing curtly that he could trust
his household, and that a change of name was all that safety required.
The younger man, whose anxiety was not on his own account only, would
have argued the point; but his host cut short the matter by opening the
door, and ushering the Vicomte, almost before the young man was aware,
into another room--a room, large and scantily furnished, but in other
respects in striking contrast to that which he had left. Here the tall,
narrow windows, three in number, were open; the sunlight poured in
through half-closed jalousies and fell in bars on the shining parquet,
and on a little table daintily laid for the morning meal and gay with
flowers. In the cooler and darker parts of the room stood high-backed
chairs littered with a dozen articles which spoke of a woman's presence;
here a fan and silk hood, there a half-mended glove. As the young man's
eyes fell on these, and he drank in the airy brightness and even luxury
of the room, he felt a strange pang of regret and misery. Such things
were no longer for him. Such prettinesses no longer formed part of his
life. And then he turned, and in an instant forgot his unhappiness and
his loss in the sight of a young girl who, seated a little aside, had
risen at his entrance and now stood facing him, her back to the light.

He had been warned; yet he stood thunderstruck, breathless, staring. His
eyes grew large, his jaw fell, the room for a moment went round with
him. The likeness of the woman before him to his dead wife was so
strong, so complete, so astonishing, that involuntarily, not knowing
what he did, he held out his hands.

"Corinne!" he muttered, his voice full of tears. "Corinne!"

The girl, who but for the ravages of ill-health would have been very
beautiful, did not answer; nevertheless she seemed scarcely less
affected by his sudden appearance and his strange address. She swayed on
her feet, and had she not grasped a chair would have fallen. A burning
flush for an instant lit up her wan cheek, to disappear at the first
sound of her father's voice. He had followed Bercy into the room, and
his tone was sharp with reproof and warning.

"Citizen Perrot," he said sternly, "this is my daughter Claire. Here is
your place. Be seated, if you please."

The Vicomte mechanically did as he was told without looking where he
sat. His hands shook, his brain was on fire. He had eyes only for the
girl; who was so wondrously, so completely, like his wife. She had taken
her seat with some timidity at the other side of the table, and if she
no longer betrayed the same emotion, her eyes were downcast, the colour
fluttered in her cheeks. It was in vain that Mirande shot angry glances
at her--and at him. The young man stared as one enchanted, seeing only
the white-robed figure seated between himself and the sunlight, that,
shining through her dark hair, found golden threads in it, and crowned
the face he knew so well with an aureole of brightness.

Gradually the spell fell from him. For as he looked, the girl's face
changed and hardened and grew older; grew sharper and whiter; and he
discerned the difference between Claire and Corinne. Corinne had never
looked at him, or at any one, after that fashion. With a sigh, yet with
eyes that often and involuntarily returned to the lode-star, he
recovered himself; and he made, or pretended to make, a meal. His
appetite, however, was gone, and he was thankful when his host rose and
put an end to the constrained sitting.

"You will excuse me," the Republican said, drawing out his watch and
looking at it. "I should be at M. Carnot's at this hour. These rooms,
however, are at your disposal, my friend; and if you want books, my
daughter will direct you where to find them. But--caution, remember!"

And with that, to the Vicomte's astonishment, M. Mirande departed,
leaving the two together. For a moment the young man sat, troubled and
perplexed, gazing at the floor. He had intercepted the glance of warning
which his host on leaving had aimed at his daughter; and with the
knowledge that he was suspected, with the brutally frank exhortation
addressed to himself fresh in his mind, to be left alone with the girl
surprised him beyond measure.

Presently he stole a look at her. She had passed to one of the windows,
and, having seated herself, was employed upon some needle-work. Her
attitude, the lines of her figure, the pose of her head, presented the
same abnormal maddening resemblance to his wife; and slowly, as if
fascinated, he moved nearer to her.

"Pardon me," he said at last, speaking almost in a whisper. "You are
very like your sister, mademoiselle."

She glanced quickly at him, her face wearing the hard, sharp look that
had slowly grown upon it. But she gave him no other answer.

He felt that he ought to leave her, but the spell was upon him and he
lingered.

"You have been ill, I fear," he said, after a long silence.

"Monsieur is right," she answered briefly. "The times are such that few
of us escape. Those are perhaps most happy," and as she paused on the
word she looked up at him, "who die with their beliefs unshattered,
before discovering the clay feet of their idols."

He started.

"Mademoiselle!" he cried almost fiercely, carried away by an intensely
painful thought. "My wife! Your sister? Answer me, answer me quickly, I
beg of you. They did not--they did not tell her that I--that I
refused----"

"That monsieur declined to save her?" Mademoiselle Claire answered
slowly, her great dark eyes looking into vacancy--into the depths of
gloomy memories. "Yes, they did. A woman, perhaps, would not have done
it; would not have borne to do it. But men are cruel--cruel! And after
all it helped her to die, you understand. It made it more easy."

He walked to the other end of the room, his face hidden in his hands.
And there his frame began to be racked by deep sobs. He tried to summon
up his pride, his courage, his manliness; but in vain. The thought that
the woman who had loved and trusted him, his young wife--his young wife
of a few months only--had died believing him a coward and an ingrate was
too bitter! Too bitter, the conviction that, mistaken as her belief was,
it could never be altered! Never be altered! She would never know!

A light touch on his arm recalled him to himself. He turned and found
Mademoiselle Claire at his elbow holding a glass of wine towards him.
Her lips were compressed, but her face wore a delicate flush, and her
eyes were changed and softened.

"Drink," she muttered hurriedly. "You are still weak; you have eaten
nothing."

He controlled himself by an effort and took the wine; and the girl,
moving away quickly, brought from the table a roll and, without again
meeting his eyes, laid it on a chair beside him. She was in the act of
regaining her place by the window, when the door opened somewhat
abruptly, and the young Vicomte, scarcely master of himself, turned and
discovered a man standing on the threshold.

The stranger stared at him and he at the stranger, while Mademoiselle
Claire, with eyes which on a sudden became keen and intent, seemed to
forget herself in gazing on both. The new-comer was taller than the
Vicomte and of about the same age; a thin, lithe man, with restless eyes
and dark, tumbled hair. He scanned the Vicomte with at least as much
disfavour as the latter, taken by surprise, spent on him; and he was the
first to speak.

"I thought that you were alone, mademoiselle," he said, frowning as he
advanced into the room and looked about him suspiciously.

"This is a friend of my father's," she answered, "He is staying with us,
M. Baudouin."

The explanation did not seem to improve matters in the young man's eyes.
He frowned still more gloomily.

"Monsieur is from the country?" he asked.

"No," the Vicomte answered. "I have been in Paris some months."

The stranger looked darkly down, toying with a book which lay at the
edge of the table. The girl waited awhile and then--

"Did you bring a message from my father?" she asked, a slight tinge of
impatience and hauteur in her manner.

"No, mademoiselle, I have not seen him this morning," he answered. And
his sullenness matched her impatience.

"Had you not better follow him then?" she said, with sharpness. "He is
at M. Carnot's. He may need you."

For a moment it was plain that M. Baudouin hesitated, but in the end he
made up his mind to obey, and bowing with exaggerated respect he left
the room.

The Vicomte thought that he could not do better than follow the other's
example, and he too withdrew. Crossing the lobby to the room which
communicated with his hiding-place he threw himself into a chair and
gave himself up to the most melancholy reflections. The singular
resemblance which Mademoiselle Claire bore to his wife must alone have
sufficed to fill him with vain longings and poignant regrets; but these
were now rendered a thousand times more bitter by the knowledge, so
cruelly conveyed to him, that his wife had died believing him a
heartless and faithless coward.

The return of M. Mirande later in the day, if it did not dispel these
gloomy thoughts, compelled him at any rate to conceal them. The evening
meal passed much as the morning one had passed; the host uttering a few
formal phrases, while the other two sat for the most part silent. The
Vicomte could not avert his eyes from his sister-in-law; and though he
no longer felt the violent emotions which her face had at first awakened
in him, he sat sad and unhappy. Her pale features reminded him of the
dead past: and at once tortured him with regret, and tantalized him with
the simulacrum of that which had been his. He could have cursed the
Heaven that had formed two beings so much alike.

In this way a week passed by, and little by little a vague discomfort
and restlessness began to characterize the attitude of his mind towards
her. He felt himself at once attracted by her beauty--as what man of his
years would not?--and repelled by the likeness that made of the feeling
a sacrilege. Meantime, whether he would or no, they were left
together--much together. M. Mirande went abroad each day and seemed
intent on public affairs. Each day, indeed, his look grew a trifle more
austere, and the shade on his brow grew deeper; but though it was
evident that the situation out-of-doors was growing more strained, the
storms which were agitating Paris and desolating so many homes affected
the little household in no other way. The Vicomte kept necessarily
within, spending most of his time in reading. Mademoiselle Claire also
went seldom abroad; and it followed that during the long July days when
the sunshine flooded the second floor, in the early mornings when the
sparrows perched on the open jalousies and twittered gaily, or in the
grey evenings, when the night fell slowly, they met from time to
time--met not infrequently. On such occasions the Vicomte noticed that
Baudouin was never far distant. The secretary, as a rule, put in an
appearance before the conversation had lasted ten minutes.

Bercy began to suspect the cause of this, and one day he happened upon a
discovery. He was sitting in M. Mirande's room, when the sound of a
raised voice made him lay down his book and listen. The voice seemed to
come from the parlour. Once he was assured of this, and that the
speaker, whose anger was apparent, was not Mirande, he took his steps.
He stole out upon the lobby, and found the parlour door as he had
suspected slightly ajar. Any scruples he might have entertained were
dispelled by the certainty that the speaker was Baudouin and that the
person whom he was addressing in harsh and vehement tones, was
Mademoiselle Claire. The Vicomte drew himself up behind the door and
listened.

"What would I have?" were the first words he caught. "Little enough,
heaven knows! Little enough! What have I ever asked except to be allowed
to serve? To gratify your least caprice. To be at your beck and call. To
fetch and carry while another basked in your smiles. That is all I asked
in the old days and I ask no more now. I am content to serve and wait
and hope. But I will have--no stranger come between us. Not again! Not
again!"

"You do not understand, M. Baudouin," the girl answered hurriedly.

"Do I not?" he cried. "Perhaps I did not understand last time. But this
time I do. I do! It had been well for you had I known more then!"

"Spare me," she said faintly, overcome apparently by some hidden meaning
in his words.

"That you may amuse yourself with this stranger?" he retorted. "No, I
have given way enough. It had been better, as I say, if I had not,
mademoiselle."

The stress he laid on the last word was unintelligible to the hidden
listener, who knew only that it veiled an insult and drew nearer to the
door. The girl remained silent and Baudouin presuming on this continued
in a tone still more aggressive, "Times are changed, mademoiselle,
changed in the last month. You, living out of the world, are ignorant of
what is passing, and your father is being left as completely behind.
Unless I make a mistake, in a little time you will need other and
stronger protection than his."

"Not while he lives," the girl answered, in a low tone.

Baudouin laughed. "The pitcher goes often to the well, but it is broken
at last," he said drily. "I would have you understand that, since you
may stand in need of my help, you would do well not to try me too far."

"M. Baudouin," the girl said abruptly--and her tone was changed, and the
listener, though he could not see her, could picture the challenge of
her startled eyes--"you have never spoken to me in this way before. You
have changed."

"So are the times. Those who were servants are now masters!"

"You will never be mine," the girl said firmly.

"We shall see!" he answered.

"We shall see!" cried an unexpected voice--that of the Vicomte, who
could bear it no longer. His eyes stern, his colour high, he flung the
door wide and entered. The secretary, startled, stepped back a pace. The
girl, who had been standing close to the door, turned, and seeing who it
was, uttered a low cry of thankfulness; in her relief she even stretched
out her hands as if she would grasp the new-comer's arm. The next
instant she drew back, a strange expression in her eyes.

"Now, sir," the young Vicomte continued, harshly, "you have to deal with
a man, and not with a woman whom you can terrify. I have overheard all,
and I warn you that on his return I shall repeat it word for word to M.
Mirande, who will know how to deal with you."

He expected that the threat would produce its effect, and that the
secretary taken in the act would resume his normal demeanour. But
Baudouin, his first surprise over, merely smiled. "Who are you, I
wonder," he replied grimly. "One in the Tallien-Barrère-Carnot
conspiracy, that's afoot, I suppose. If so, I need not----"

"You need suppose nothing!" the Vicomte retorted fiercely. "But leave
the room without words, you dog!"

"Thank you," said the secretary, smiling contemptuously. "But I would
have you remember that a living dog is better than a dead lion."

With that--and with little show of embarrassment or dismay--he went
out. As the door closed behind him a singular constraint fell upon the
two who were left. The Vicomte, with a grave face, paused by the table,
and stood listening to the sound of his retreating footsteps. The girl,
who had withdrawn to the farther end of the room, kept her face averted.
The Vicomte looked at her doubtfully--looked at her more than once.
"Mademoiselle," he ventured at last, his voice low and agitated, "I am
afraid he--I am afraid he means mischief."

"I fear so," she whispered without turning.

"Will you--shall I speak to your father?"

"It may be better," she answered--to the same tone.

He looked at her long at that, but she did not move; and with a gesture
as of farewell he turned and went softly away. Safe in his own room,
with the door shut, he stood in the middle of the floor thinking;
thinking not of the secretary nor of the danger with which Baudouin's
enmity threatened the house, but of the strange look which the girl's
face had worn on his first appearance at her side, the look of relief
and thankfulness which he had surprised in her eyes, the impulse of
confidence which had made her move towards him! He recalled them all,
and his brow grew hot, his hand trembled. He felt at once terror and
shame. When he heard M. Mirande's step on the stairs, he gave himself no
time for thought, but went hurriedly out on the lobby and called him
into the room. "M. Mirande," he said, "I have something to tell you. I
have two things to tell you."

The Republican looked at him, his inscrutable eyes betraying no
surprise. "What are they?" he asked, his tone almost phlegmatic.

"The man Baudouin has been here, addressing himself so rudely to your
daughter that I felt myself obliged to--to interfere."

"That is unlucky."

"It may be that he has your confidence," the young Vicomte continued,
"but, from the way in which he spoke of you, I doubt if you have his. He
seemed to me--a dangerous man, M. Baudouin."

"Did he use threats?" the Republican asked, a slight shade of anxiety in
his tone.

The Vicomte nodded.

"Did he mention any names?" M. Mirande continued, looking sharply at his
watch.

"Yes. Those of Carnot, Barrère--and I think, Tallien."

"Ah!" For a moment M. Mirande's impulse seemed to be to leave the room;
to leave it hurriedly, to go back perhaps whence he had come. But he
thought better of it, and after a pause he continued, "Had you not
something else to tell me?"

"I had," the young man answered, betraying, by his agitation, that he
had now come to the real purpose for which he had sought the interview.
"I wish to leave, M. Mirande. I wish to leave your house at once. I do
not know," he continued hurriedly, before the elder man could utter the
dry retort which was on his lips, "whether you had it in your mind to
try me by leaving me with your daughter, or whether I have only my own
weakness to thank. But I must go. I am ashamed of myself, I hate myself
for it; but I cannot be with her and not feel what I ought not to feel.
Understand me," the young man continued, his cheeks pale; "it is not by
reason of any charm of hers, but because she is so like--so like my
wife--because she seems a dozen times a day to be my wife, that my
memory is unfaithful to Corinne--that I dare not remain here another
day!"

He stopped abruptly. M. Mirande coughed.

"This is a strange confession," he said, after a long pause. "You have
said nothing to Claire?"

"Heaven forbid!"

"Then say nothing!" the Republican replied with curt decision. "As for
leaving this place to-day, it is impossible. A crisis is at hand; this
house is watched. You would be recognized and arrested before you passed
ten yards from the door. Moreover," he went on, seeming to ponder deeply
as he spoke, "if you are right about Baudouin--and I doubt now whether I
have been Wise to trust him--I see great and immediate danger before
me. Therefore, if you would not desert the sinking ship, you must
remain."

"I dare not," the young man muttered, shaking his head.

"What?" the old Girondin answered, his voice swelling, his eyes growing
bright. "You a noble, and you dare not? You a noble, and you cannot
govern yourself? Consider, M. le Vicomte! A few days may see me traverse
the road so many traverse every day; the road of the guillotine. Then my
daughter will be alone, defenceless, unprotected. I ask you--for I have
no one else to whom I can turn--to be her brother and her guardian. Do
you refuse?"

"You no longer distrust me?" the Vicomte muttered, his cheek hot.

"When you came to me a week ago," Mirande answered, "I did not foresee
this crisis, nor the present danger. If I had, I might have received you
differently. But, see you, what if this be the way in which I would try
you?" he continued with energy. "What if this be the atonement heaven
has assigned to you? In that case, do you accept, or do you refuse?"

"I accept," the Vicomte answered solemnly, carried away by the other's
burst of feeling. "I accept the charge."

M. Mirande smiled, but only for a moment. Quickly the light died out of
his face, leaving it stern and austere. His brow grew dark, and turning
with a sigh to his table, he signed to his companion to leave him, and
was presently immersed in figures and calculations.

The young man retired; on his side full of doubt and amazement, yet
lifted by the other's appeal to a higher level of will and purpose.
Confidence begets honour. Frankly as he had gone to the Girondin with
his confession, so frankly had the other received it. Now he felt that
it behoved him to deserve confidence. Henceforth Claire must be his
sister. But he knew that merely to call her sister was not all. He knew
enough of his own weakness to recognize the necessity of shunning
temptation, and during the next three days he was careful to avoid
conversation with the girl; who on her part seemed to observe nothing,
but went to and fro about her household duties.

And yet she did not go about them as usual, a keen observer would have
said. A subtle change had come over her. Alone in her room she sang to
herself low crooning songs of happiness. Her eyes, so carefully lowered
in the parlour, shone with a tender brightness, when no one saw them.
Her cheek had grown fuller, her colour stronger, her whole being
radiant. If she still went delicately when other's eyes were upon her,
it was rather in sympathy with the heavy air of fear and expectation
which pervaded the house, which pervaded the city, than in obedience to
her natural impulses.

On the third evening, M. Mirande, who had been abroad all day, came home
rather later than usual. The Vicomte and Claire were sitting in separate
rooms, but something ominous in the sound of his footstep as he mounted
the stairs, drew them both to the lobby to receive him. The evening
light, shining through the window behind them, fell full upon his face
and exaggerated its cold and grey severity. They waited for him in
silence, and he did not see them until he set his foot on the last step.
Then he pointed to his room, and, "Go in there, my children," he said
gravely.

The young man started. The girl blushed and trembled. They both obeyed.
M. Mirande's next act was equally surprising. Following them into the
room he proceeded to lock and bolt the door behind him; and then passing
quickly to the window he looked out. For a moment they stood behind him
in silence. After a pause the Vicomte spoke.

"What is it?" he said.

"The order for my arrest was signed an hour ago," the Girondin answered,
his eyes still glued to the window. "You are both included in it. Ah!
here they are!"

"Who?" the Vicomte asked with energy.

"Baudouin and three officers. However, the door is shut. It is strong,
and will gain us a few minutes."

"To what end?" The Vicomte spoke coldly. Mirande's conduct took him by
surprise, for resistance to arrest was rare during the Revolution. Such
men as Mirande, courageous, bigoted, devoted to an ideal, made a
point--unless they resorted to suicide--of submitting calmly to destiny
and the law.

The Girondin, however, had decided otherwise. Nor did he seem to be
aware of his companion's disapproval. He did not answer, but continued
to look out long after the tramp of heavy footsteps on the stairs had
drawn his daughter to his side. There was a loud summons without, "In
the name of the law!" but the three remained silent, standing close
together, the girl's white, scared face glimmering in the increasing
darkness of the room. The Vicomte a foot from her, could almost hear the
dull beating of her heart.

"Can nothing be done?" he muttered.

"We can do nothing but wait and be silent," the Republican answered
calmly. "They know we are here, but if we do not answer, they may pause
awhile before they attack the door. And every moment--is a moment
gained."

The Vicomte shrugged his shoulders, but acquiesced; and some minutes
elapsed--minutes which seemed hours to more than one of the
three--before the locksmith for whom the Commissary had sent, assailed
the door, and the almost empty house rang with the harsh sounds of his
hammer.

Crash! The door was open at last, letting into the room a flood of
light, and with the light three men who entered with levelled arms. The
foremost, an officer girt with a huge tricolour scarf, stopped abruptly,
his jaw dropping ludicrously as his eyes fell on the placid group before
him. "Citizen Achille Mirande?" he said interrogatively. "Yes? I am
empowered to arrest you in the name of the Committee of Safety; you,
your daughter also present I think--and a guest. This I presume is the
person?"

"It is," Mirande answered quietly. "Perhaps you will permit me to show
you where my papers are. They may be needed?"

"They will be needed," the Commissary replied, re-arranging his scarf,
which had been pulled awry. "You may certainly collect them under
surveillance."

"I can save M. Mirande the trouble," remarked a mocking voice in the
background. "I think I can lay my hand on any paper that may be
required."

"I do not doubt it, Baudouin," the Girondin answered placidly. "I take
it that I have to thank you for this?"

There was shame as well as triumph in the secretary's eyes as he came
forward. "You cannot say I did not warn you," he said, avoiding the look
of scorn which Claire--who stood by her father's side, her hand in
his--shot at him. "But you would go your way."

"And you, yours!" Mirande retorted. "An old way--Judas's. But hark you,
my friend! You seem to be prospering now. You have kicked down the
ladder by which you have risen. Yet it is in my power to wound you. See
you, do you know who this is?" and he pointed to the Vicomte who, with
his arms folded, was gazing haughtily at the Commissary and his
followers.

"A conspirator against the safety of the Republic--that is all I know,"
Baudouin answered sullenly.

"Possibly," said Mirande. "But not the less for that my son-in-law!"

"The Vicomte de Bercy!" Baudouin almost shouted. "It is false. I heard
of him but yesterday--at Nantes."

"You heard wrongly then!" Mirande answered with a cold sneer. "This is
the man whom you met at Meaux, and of whom you lied to me, saying--that
you might divide him effectually from my daughter--that he refused to
surrender himself to save her."

"It was true--what I told you," the secretary muttered, gazing at Bercy
with hatred.

"It was false!" cried the Girondin sternly. "Do I need evidence? I have
it. Whom shall I believe, you, who have betrayed me to-day, or he who
remained by my side in danger?"

"He could not escape," Baudouin said abruptly. His face was pale, the
perspiration stood on his brow. His jealous eyes glared askance at the
girl's face. Mirande had said rightly. He had yet the power to wound
this traitor.

"He did not attempt it," the Girondin answered. "And besides, I have
tried him as gold in the fire! Look you at this. Bercy!" As the name
rang through the room the speaker turned to the Vicomte and took his
hand, "My friend, I have deceived you. My daughter did not die. I
procured her pardon by the use of such influence as I possessed at that
time. But having done that, deluded by this villain's tale, I forced her
to renounce you and to take her maiden name."

For an instant there was silence in the room.

"She did not die?" the young man muttered, his eyes dilating. Then,
before an answer could be given, he plucked his hand from Mirande's
grasp and seizing him by the shoulder shook him to and fro.

"Where is she?" he cried hoarsely. "Speak, man, what have you done with
her? Where is she?"

"She is behind you."

Bercy turned. Claire was behind him. "Claire?" he cried. "Claire?"

The girl stood, her eyes slightly downcast, her arms hanging by her
sides. And then at the sound of the name uttered a second time, she
looked up, her eyes swimming with love and tears. "No, Corinne!" she
said simply. And then, in a voice which pierced the traitor's bosom as
with a sword, she continued, "Honoré, my husband! Forgive me! Forgive
me that I distrusted you! That I disowned you!"

He did not answer, but he opened his arms and took her into them and
held her there; while the father went to the window--perhaps to hide his
emotion, and the Commissary lifted up his hands in admiration genuine
and French of this moving scene. As for Baudouin, he bit his nails, his
face white with rage.

He cursed the delay. He would have cursed the police, had he dared, and
had not the tricolour scarf awed him. "Bah!" he exclaimed at last in
venomous tones, "a fine piece of play-acting, M. Mirande! And our
friends here have indulgently given you time for it. But it is over, and
the sequel will be less pleasant, I fear. He laughs best who laughs
last."

"That is true," Mirande answered soberly; and for an instant from his
place at the window, he looked into the room.

"In three days you will sneeze into the sack, my friends," Baudouin
continued with savage mockery. "Your married bliss, M. le Vicomte, will
last but a short time, I fear. As for mademoiselle, Sanson will prove
but a rough coiffeur, I doubt."

"Silence!" the Girondin cried; and his tone was strangely altered, his
voice vibrated strangely through the room. "Silence, you hound!" he
continued, turning from the window and walking into the middle of the
chamber, his figure drawn to its full height, his hand outstretched. "Be
still, and tremble for your own head. The warrant you bring is signed by
Maximilien Robespierre?"

"The Incorruptible," murmured the Commissary. And saluted.

"Corruptible or Incorruptible," Mirande rejoined, with a sneer, "he is
fallen! He is fallen! Within the last ten minutes he has been arrested
and lodged in the Tuileries!"

"You rave!" cried the officer. While Bercy and Corinne cast dazed
glances about them, and the other men stared in stupid wonder.

"I do not rave!" the Girondin answered, standing in the middle of the
room, the master of the situation. "I tell but the fact. Mark the three
lighted candles in yonder upper window. They are a signal that
Robespierre is arrested. Go, if you doubt me, and ask. Or--you need not.
Listen, listen!" With a gesture of command, he raised his hand, and all
stood silent. For an instant there seemed equal silence in the streets
below; but gradually as they listened there grew out of this silence a
distant hollow murmur, as of a great sea swelling higher and louder with
each moment. The face of more than one in the room lost its colour.

"The Faubourgs are rising," muttered the Commissary uneasily. "There is
something amiss."

"On the contrary," answered the Girondin quietly, "there is nothing
amiss, but things are in a fair way to be set straight. If you will
take my advice you will tear up that warrant, my friend. To-morrow it
will be more dangerous to you than to me. The Terror of these days is
over," he continued solemnly. "For those who have profited by it the
reckoning remains!"

M. Mirande was right. Abruptly as this narration ends, the Terror, so
famous in history, came to its end; and many a life held worthless a few
minutes before was saved. For twenty-four hours indeed the fate of
Robespierre and indirectly of our friends hung in the balance, all men
trembling and watching what would happen and who would prevail. Then he
fell, and the cruelty of his rule recoiled on his associates. What
became of Baudouin is not known for certain, though one tale alleges
that he was met and murdered by a company of Royalists near Nantes, and
another, that he was guillotined under another name with Fouquier
Tinville and his gang. Enough that he disappeared unmarked and
unregretted, along with many others of the baser and more obscure
adventurers of the time.

Of Bercy and Corinne, re-wedded under circumstances so strange and so
abnormal, we know only that their descendants, well versed in this
tradition of the family, still flourish on the Loire, and often and
often tell this tale under the walnut-trees on summer evenings. Nor are
there wanting to-day both a Corinne and a Claire.


IN THE NAME OF THE LAW!


On the moorland above the old grey village of Carhaix, in
Finistère--Finistère, the most westerly province of Brittany--stands a
cottage, built, as all the cottages in that country are, of rough-hewn
stones. It is a poor, rude place to-day, but it wore an aspect still
more rude and primitive a hundred years ago--on an August day in the
year 1793, when a man issued from the low doorway, and, shading his eyes
from the noonday sun, gazed long and fixedly in the direction of a
narrow rift which a few score paces away breaks the monotony of the
upland level. The man was tall and thin and unkempt, and his features,
which expressed a mixture of cunning and simplicity, matched his figure.
He gazed a while in silence, but at length he uttered a grunt of
satisfaction as the figure of a woman rose gradually into sight. She
came slowly towards him in a stooping posture, dragging behind her a
great load of straw, which completely hid the little sledge on which it
rested, and which was attached to her waist by a rope of twisted hay.

The figure of a woman--rather of a girl. As she drew nearer it could be
seen that her cheeks, though brown and sunburned, were as smooth as a
child's. She seemed to be still in her teens. Her head was bare, and her
short petticoats, of some coarse stuff, left visible bare feet thrust
into wooden shoes. She advanced with her head bent, and her shoulders
strained forward, her face dull and patient. Once, and once only, when
the man's eyes left her for a moment, she shot at him a look of scared
apprehension; and later, when she came abreast of him, her breath coming
and going with her exertions, he might have seen, had he looked closely,
that her strong brown limbs were trembling under her.

But the man noticed nothing in his impatience, and only chid her for her
slowness. "Where have you been dawdling, lazy-bones?" he cried.

She murmured, without halting, that the sun was hot.

"Sun hot!" he retorted. "Jeanne is lazy, that is it! _Mon Dieu_, that I
should have married a wife who is tired by noon! I had better have left
you to that never-do-well Pierre Bounat. But I have news for you, my
girl."

He lounged after her as he spoke, his low cunning face--the face of the
worst kind of French peasant--flickering with cruel pleasure, as he saw
how she winced at the name he had mentioned. She made him no answer,
however. Instead, she drew her load with increased vehemence towards one
of the two doors which led into the building. "Well, well, I will tell
you presently," he called after her. "Be quick and come to dinner."

He entered himself by the other door. The house was divided into two
chambers by a breast-high partition of wood. The one room served for
kitchen; the other, now half full of straw, was barn and granary,
fowl-house and dove-cote, all in one. "Be quick!" he called to her.
Standing in the house-room, he could see her head as she proceeded to
unload the straw.

After a few minutes she came in, her shoes clattering on the floor. The
perspiration stood in great beads on her forehead, and showed how little
she had deserved his reproach. She took her seat silently, avoiding his
eyes with some care; but he thought nothing of this. It was no new
thing. It pleased him, if anything.

He liked to be feared. "Well, my Jeanne," he said, in his gibing tone,
"are you longing for my news?"

The hand she extended towards the pitcher of cider, that, with black
bread and onions, made up their meal, shook a little; but she answered
simply, "If you please, Michel."

"Well, the Girondins have got the worst of it, my girl, and are flying
all over the country. That is the news. Your Pierre is among them, I
don't doubt, if he has not been killed already. I wish he would come
this way."

"Why?" she asked; and as she spoke looked up at last, a flash of light
in her grey eyes.

"Why?" he repeated, grinning across the table at her, "because he would
be worth five crowns to me. There is five crowns, I am told, on the head
of every Girondin who has been in arms, my girl. Five crowns! It is not
every day we can earn five crowns!"

The French Revolution, it will be understood, was at its height. The
more moderate and constitutional Republicans--the Girondins, as they
were called--worsted in Paris by the Jacobins and the mob, had lately
tried to raise the provinces against the capital, and to this end had
drawn together at Caen, near the border of Brittany. They had been
defeated, however, and the Jacobins, in this month of August, were
preparing to take a fearful vengeance at once on them and on the
Royalists. The Reign of Terror had begun. Even to such a boor as this,
sitting over his black bread, in his remote hovel, the Revolution had
come home, and, in common with many a thousand others, he wondered what
he could make of it.

The girl did not answer, even by the look of contempt to which he had
become accustomed, and for which he hated her, and for which he beat
her; and he repeated, "Five crowns! Ah, it is money, that is! _Mon
Dieu!_" Then, with a sudden exclamation, he sprang up. "What is that?"
he cried.

He had been sitting with his back to the barn, but he turned, as he
spoke, so as to face it. Something had startled him--a movement, a
rustling in the straw behind him. "What is that?" he asked again, his
hand on the table, his face lowering and watchful.

The girl had risen also; and, as the last word passed his lips, sprang
by him with a low cry, and aimed a frantic blow with her stool at
something he could not see, something low, on the floor.

"What is it?" he asked, recoiling.

"A rat!" she answered, breathless. And she aimed another blow at it.

"Where?" he asked sharply. "Where is it?" He snatched up his stool, too,
and at that moment a rat darted out of the straw, ran nimbly between his
legs, and plunged into a hole by the door. He flung the wooden stool
after it; but in vain. "It was a rat!" he said, as if until then he had
doubted it.

"Thank God!" she muttered. She was shaking all over.

He stared at her in stupid wonder. What did she mean? What had come to
her? "Have you had a sunstroke my girl?" he said suspiciously.

Her nut-brown face was a shade less brown than usual, but she met his
eyes boldly. "No," she said, "I am all right." And she added an
explanation that for the moment satisfied him. But he did not sit down
again, and when she went out he went out also. And though, as she
retired slowly to the rye fields and her work, she repeatedly looked
back at him, it was always to find his eyes fixed upon her. When this
had happened half a dozen times, a thought struck him. "How now?" he
muttered. "The rat ran out of the straw! Why?"

Nevertheless he continued to gaze after her, with a cunning look upon
his features, until she disappeared over the edge of the rift. Then he
crept back to the door of the barn, and stole in, exchanging the
sunlight for the cool darkness of the raftered building, across which a
dozen rays of light were shooting, laden with dancing motes. A pace or
two from the door he stood stock still until he had regained the use of
his eyes; then he began to peer round him. In a moment, far sooner than
he expected, he found what he sought. Half upon, and half hidden by, the
straw in the furthest corner, lay a young man, in the deep sleep of
utter exhaustion. His face, which bore traces of more than common
beauty, was white and pinched; his hair hung dank about his forehead.
His clothes were in rags; and his feet, bound up with pieces torn at
random from his blouse, were raw and bleeding. For a short time Michel
Tellier bent over him, noting these things with glistening eyes. Then
the peasant stole out again. "It is five crowns!" he muttered, blinking
in the sunlight. "Ha, ha! Five crowns!"

He looked round him cautiously, but could see no sign of his wife; and
after hesitating and pondering a minute or two, he took the path for
Carhaix, his native astuteness leading him to saunter at a slow pace
after his ordinary fashion. When he was gone the moorland about the
cottage lay still and deserted. Thrice, at intervals, the girl dragged
home her load of straw, but on each occasion she seemed to linger in the
barn no longer than was necessary. Michel's absence, though it was
unlooked-for, raised no suspicion in her breast, for he would frequently
go down to the village to spend the afternoon. The sun sank lower, and
the shadow of the great monolith, which, on the crest of the highest
point of the moor, at a distance of a mile, rose gaunt and black against
a roseate sky, grew longer and longer; and then, as twilight fell, the
two coming home met a few paces from the cottage. He asked some
questions about the work she had been doing, and she answered briefly.
Then, silent and uncommunicative, they went in together. The girl set
the bread and cider on the table, and going to the great black pot which
had been simmering all day upon the fire, poured some broth into two
pitchers. It did not escape Michel's frugal eye that she was careful to
leave a little broth in the bottom of the pot; and the fact induced a
new feeling in him--anger. When his wife invited him by a sign to the
meal, he went instead to the door, and fastened it. Then he moved to the
corner and picked up the wood-chopper, and armed with this he came back
to his seat.

The girl watched his movements first with surprise, then with secret
terror. The twilight was come, the cottage was almost dark, and she was
alone with him; or, if not alone, yet with no one near who could help
her. Nevertheless she met his grin of triumph bravely. "What is this?"
she said. "Why do you want that?"

"For the rat," he answered grimly, his eyes on hers.

Her heart sank. "The rat?" she echoed.

"Ay!"

"Why not--your stool?" she strove to murmur.

"Not for this rat," he answered cunningly. "It might not do, my girl.
Oh, I know what is to do," he continued, fingering the edge of the axe.
"I have been down to the village, and seen the mayor, and he is coming
up to fetch him." He nodded towards the partition, and she knew that her
secret was known.

"It is Pierre," she said, trembling violently, and turning first crimson
and then a dull sallow hue.

"I know it, Jeanne. It was excellent of you! Excellent! It is long since
you have done such a day's work."

"You will not give him up?" she gasped.

"My faith, I shall!" he answered, affecting, and perhaps really feeling,
wonder at her simplicity. "He is five crowns, my girl! You do not
understand. He is worth five crowns and the risk nothing at all."

If he had been angry, if he had shown anything of the fury of the
suspicious husband, if he had been about to do this out of jealousy or
revenge or passion she would have quailed before him, though she had
done him no wrong, save the wrong of mercy and pity. But his spirit was
too mean for the great passions; he felt only the mean and sordid
impulses, which to a woman are the most hateful. And instead of
quailing, she looked at him with flashing eyes. "I shall warn him," she
said.

"It will not help him," he answered, sitting still, and feeling anew the
edge of the hatchet with his fingers.

"It will help him," she retorted. "He shall go. He shall escape before
they come." She rose impetuously from her seat.

"I have locked the door!"

"Give me the key!" she panted. "Give me the key, I say!" She stood
before him, her trembling hands outstretched, her figure drawn to its
full height. Her look was such that he rose and retreated behind the
table, still retaining the hatchet in his grasp.

"Stand back!" he said sullenly. "You may awaken him, if you please, my
girl. It will not avail him. Do you not understand, fool, that he is
worth five crowns? Five crowns? And listen! It is too late now. They are
here!"

A blow fell on the door as he spoke, and he stepped towards it. But at
that, seeing the last chance leaving her, despair moved her, she threw
herself upon him; for a moment she wrestled with him like a wild-cat,
but in the end he prevailed; he flung her off, and, brandishing his
weapon in her face, kept her at bay. "You vixen!" he cried, retreating
to the door, with a pale cheek and his eyes still on her, for he was an
arrant coward. "You deserve to go to prison with him, you jade! I will
have you in the stocks for this! I'll have you jailed!"

She leaned against the wall where he had flung her, her white despairing
face seeming to shine in the darkness of the wretched room. Meanwhile
the continuous murmur of men's voices outside the door could be heard
mingled with the clatter of weapons; the summons for admission was
repeated, and again repeated, as if those without had no mind to be kept
waiting long.

"Patience! patience! I am opening!" he cried. Still keeping his face to
her, he unlocked the door and called on the men to enter. "He is in the
straw, M. le Maire!" he said, in a tone of triumph, his eyes still on
his wife. "Cursed Girondin! He will give you no trouble, I will answer
it! But first give me my five crowns, M. le Maire. My five crowns!"

He felt, craven as he was, so much fear of his wife that he did not turn
to see the men enter, and he was taken by surprise when a voice at his
elbow--a voice he did not know--answered, "Five crowns, my friend? For
what, may I ask?"

In his eagerness and greed he suspected nothing, but that on some
pretext or other they were trying to filch from him his dues. "For what?
For the Girondin!" he answered rapidly. Then at last he did turn and
found that half a dozen men had entered, that more were entering. But to
his astonishment, they were all strangers--men with stern, gloomy faces,
and armed to the teeth. There was something so formidable, indeed, in
their appearance that he stepped back, and his voice faltered as he
added: "But where is the mayor, gentlemen? I do not see him."

No one answered, but in silence the last of the men--they were eleven in
all--entered and bolted the door behind him. Michel Tellier peered at
them in the gloom with growing alarm, nay, with growing terror. In
return the tallest of the strangers, he who had entered first and seemed
to command the others, looked round him keenly. And it was he who at
length broke the silence. "So you have a Girondin here, have you?" he
said, his voice curiously sweet and sonorous.

"I was to have five crowns for him," Michel muttered dubiously.

"Oh!" and then, "Pétion," the spokesman continued to one of his
companions, "can you kindle a light? It strikes me that we have hit upon
a dark place."

The man addressed took something from his pouch. For a moment there was
silence, broken only by the sharp sound of the flint striking the steel.
Then a slow-growing glare lit up the dark interior, and disclosed the
group of cloaked strangers standing about the door, the light gleaming
back from their trailing sabres and great horse-pistols. Michel
trembled. He had never seen such men as these. True, they were wet and
travel-stained, and had the air of those who spend their nights in
ditches and under haystacks. But their pale, stern faces were set in
indomitable resolve. Their eyes glowed with a steady fire, and they trod
the mud floor as kings tread. Their leader was a man of majestic height
and stern beauty, and in his eyes alone there seemed to lurk a spark of
lighter fire, as if his spirit still rose above the task which had
sobered his companions. Michel noted all this in fear and bewilderment;
noted the white head yet the vigorous bearing of the man who had struck
the light; noted even the manner in which the light died away in the dim
recesses of the barn.

"And this Girondin--is he in hiding here?" the tall man asked.

"That is so," Michel answered. "But I had nothing to do with hiding him,
citizen. It was my wife hid him in the straw there."

"And you gave notice of his presence to the authorities?" the stranger
continued, raising his hand to repress some movement among his
followers.

"Certainly, or you would not be here," replied Michel, better satisfied
with himself.

The answer struck him, prostrated him, with an awful terror. "That does
not follow," the tall man rejoined coolly, "for we, we, also, are
Girondins!"

"You are? You?"

"Without doubt," the other answered, with majestic simplicity; "or there
are no such persons. This is Pétion of Paris, and this citizen Buzot.
Have you heard of Louvet? There he stands. For me, I am Barbaroux."

Michel's tongue remained glued to the roof of his mouth. He could not
utter a word. But another could. On the far side of the barrier a
rustling was heard, and while all turned to look--but with what
different feelings--the pale face of the youth over whom Michel had bent
in the afternoon appeared above the partition. A smile of joyful
recognition effaced for the time the lines of exhaustion. The young man,
clinging for support to the planks, uttered a cry of thankfulness. "It
is you! It is really you! You are safe!" he exclaimed. Love beamed in
his eyes.

"We are safe, all of us, Pierre," Barbaroux answered. "And now"--he
turned to Michel Tellier with thunder in his voice--"know that this man
whom you would have betrayed is our guide, whom we lost last night.
Speak, then, in your defence, if you can. Say what you have to say why
justice should not be done upon you, miserable caitiff, who would have
sold a man's life, as you would sell a sheep's, for a few pieces of
silver!"

The wretched peasant's knees trembled under him; the perspiration stood
upon his brow. He heard the voice as the voice of a judge or an
executioner. He looked in the stern eyes of the Girondins, and read only
anger, doom, vengeance. Then he caught in the silence the sound of his
wife weeping, for at Pierre's appearance she had broken into wild
sobbing; and on that he spoke out of the base instincts of his heart.
"He was her lover," he muttered. "I swear it, citizens."

"He lies!" the man at the barrier cried, his face transfigured with
rage. "I loved her once, it is true, but it was before her old father
sold her to this Judas. For what he would have you believe now, my
friends, it is false. I, too, swear it."

A murmur of execration broke from the group of Girondins. Barbaroux
repressed it by a gesture. "What do you say of this man?" he asked,
turning to them, his tone deep and solemn.

"He is not fit to live!" they answered with one voice.

The poor coward screamed as he heard the words, and, flinging himself on
the ground, he embraced Barbaroux's knees in a paroxysm of terror. But
the judge did not look at him. Barbaroux turned, instead, to Pierre
Bounat. "What do you say of him?" he asked.

"He is not fit to live," the young man answered solemnly, his breath
coming quick and fast.

"And you?" Barbaroux continued, turning and looking with eyes of fire at
the wife. And his voice was still more solemn.

A moment before she had ceased to weep, and had stood up listening and
gazing, awe and wonder in her face. Barbaroux had to repeat his question
before she answered. Then she said, "He is not fit to die."

There was silence for a moment, broken only by the entreaties, the
prayers, of the wretch on the floor. At last Barbaroux spoke. "She has
said rightly," he pronounced. "He shall live. They have put us out of
the law and set a price on our heads; but we will keep the law. He shall
live. Yet, hark you," the great orator continued, in tones which Michel
never forgot, "if a whisper escape you as to our presence here, or as to
our names, or if you wrong your wife from this time forth by word or
deed, the life she has saved shall pay for it.

"Remember!" he added, shaking Michel to and fro with a finger, "the arm
of Barbaroux of Marseilles is long, and though I be a hundred leagues
away, I shall know and I shall punish. So, beware! Now rise, and live!"

The miserable man cowered back to the wall, frightened to the core of
his heart. The Girondins conferred a while in whispers, two of their
number assisting Pierre to cross the barrier. Suddenly on their talk
there broke--and Michel trembled anew as he heard it--a loud knocking at
the door. All started and stood listening and waiting. A voice cried:
"Open! open! in the name of the law!"

"We have lingered too long," Barbaroux muttered. "I should have thought
of this. It is the Mayor of Carhaix come to apprehend our friend."

Again the Girondins conferred together. At last, seeming to arrive at a
conclusion, they ranged themselves on either side of the door, and one
of their number opened it. A short, stout man, girt with a tricolour
sash, and wearing a huge sword, entered with an air of authority.
Blinded by the gush of light he saw, at his first entrance, nothing out
of the common; he was followed by four men armed with muskets.

Their appearance produced an extraordinary effect on Michel Tellier. As
they crossed the threshold one by one, the peasant leaned forward, his
face flushed, his eyes gleaming; and he counted them. They were only
five. And the others were twelve. He fell back, and from that moment his
belief in the Girondins' power was clinched.

"In the name of the law!" the mayor panted. He was a little out of
breath. "Why did you not----" Then he stopped abruptly, his mouth
remaining open. He found himself surrounded by a group of grim, silent
mutes, with arms in their hands; and in a twinkling it flashed into his
mind that these were the eleven chiefs of the Girondins, whom he had
been warned to keep watch for, and to take. He had come to catch a
pigeon and had caught a crow. He turned pale and his eyes dropped. "Who
are--who are these gentlemen?" he stammered, in a tone suddenly and
ludicrously fallen.

"Some volunteers of Quimper, returning home," replied Barbaroux, with
ironical smoothness.

"You have your papers, citizens?" the mayor asked, mechanically; and he
took a step backwards towards the door, and looked over his shoulder.

"Here they are!" said Pétion rudely, thrusting a packet into his hands.
"They are in order."

The mayor took them, and longing only to see the outside of the door,
pretended to look through them, his little heart going pit-a-pat within
him. "They seem to be in order," he assented, feebly. "I need not
trouble you further, citizens. I came here under a misapprehension, I
find, and I wish you a good journey."

He knew, as he backed out, that he was cutting a poor figure. And he
would fain have made a more dignified retreat. But before these men,
fugitives and outlaws as they were, he felt, though he was Mayor of
Carhaix, almost as small a man as did Michel Tellier. These were the men
of the Revolution, nay, they were the Revolution. They had bearded
Capet, they had shattered the régime of centuries, they had pulled down
kings. There was Barbaroux, who had grappled with Marat; and Pétion, the
Mayor of the Bastille. The little Mayor of Carhaix knew greatness when
he saw it. He turned tail, and hurried back to his fireside, his
body-guard not a whit behind him in their desire to be gone.

Five minutes later the men he feared and envied came out also, and went
their way, passing in single file into the darkness which brooded over
the great monolith; beginning, brave hearts, another of the few stages
which still lay between them and the guillotine. Then in the cottage
there remained only Michel and Jeanne. She sat by the dying embers,
silent, and lost in thought. He leaned against the wall, his eyes roving
ceaselessly, but always when his gaze met hers it fell. Barbaroux had
conquered him. It was not until Jeanne had risen to close the door, and
he was alone, that he wrung his hands, and muttered: "Five crowns! Five
crowns gone and wasted!"


THE END


       *       *       *       *       *


UNDER THE RED ROBE.

A ROMANCE.

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN,

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "THE HOUSE OF THE WOLF," ETC.


With 12 Full-page Illustrations by R. Caton Woodville. 12mo, Linen
Cloth, Ornamental, $1.25.


"Mr. Weyman is a brave writer, who imagines fine things and describes
them splendidly. There is something to interest a healthy mind on every
page of his new Story. Its interest never flags, for his resource is
rich, and it is, moreover, the kind of a story that one cannot plainly
see the end of from Chapter I.... the story reveals a knowledge of
French character and French landscape that was surely never acquired at
second hand. The beginning is wonderfully interesting."--NEW YORK TIMES.

"As perfect a novel of the new school of fiction as 'Ivanhoe' or 'Henry
Esmond' was of theirs. Each later story has shown a marked advance in
strength and treatment, and in the last Mr. Weyman ... demonstrates that
he has no superior among living novelists.... There are but two
characters in the story--his art makes all other but unnoticed shadows
cast by them--and the attention is so keenly fixed upon one or both,
from the first word to the last, that we live in their thoughts and see
the drama unfolded through their eyes."--N. Y. WORLD.

"It was bold to take Richelieu and his time as a subject and thus to
challenge comparison with Dumas's immortal musketeers; but the result
justifies the boldness.... The plot is admirably clear and strong, the
diction singularly concise and telling, and the stirring events are so
managed as not to degenerate into sensationalism. Few better novels of
adventure than this have ever been written."--OUTLOOK, NEW YORK.

"A wonderfully brilliant and thrilling romance.... Mr. Weyman has a
positive talent for concise dramatic narration. Every phrase tells, and
the characters stand out with life-like distinctness. Some of the most
fascinating epochs in French history have been splendidly illuminated by
his novels, which are to be reckoned among the notable successes of
later nineteenth-century fiction. This story of 'Under the Red Robe' is
in its way one of the very best things he has done. It is illustrated
with rigor and appropriateness from twelve full-page designs by R. Caton
Woodville."--BOSTON BEACON.

"It is a skillfully drawn picture of the times, drawn in simple and
transparent English, and quivering with tense human feeling from the
first word to the last. It is not a book that can be laid down at the
middle of it. The reader once caught in its whirl can no more escape
from it than a ship from the maelstrom."--PICAYUNE, NEW ORLEANS.

"The 'red robe' refers to Cardinal Richelieu, in whose day the story is
laid. The descriptions of his court, his judicial machinations and
ministrations, his partial defeat, stand out from the book as vivid as
flame against a background of snow. For the rest, the book is clever and
interesting, and overflowing with heroic incident. Stanley Weyman is an
author who has apparently come to stay."--CHICAGO POST.

"In this story Mr. Weyman returns to the scene of his 'Gentleman of
France,' although his new heroes are of different mould. The book is
full of adventure and characterized by a deeper study of character than
its predecessor."--WASHINGTON POST.

"Mr. Weyman has quite topped his first success.... The author artfully
pursues the line on which his happy initial venture was laid. We have in
Berault, the hero, a more impressive Marsac; an accomplished duelist,
telling the tale of his own adventures, he first repels and finally
attracts us. He is at once the tool of Richelieu, and a man of honor.
Here is a noteworthy romance, full of thrilling incident set down by a
master-hand."--PHILADELPHIA PRESS.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE RED COCKADE.

A NOVEL OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN,

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," "THE HOUSE OF
THE WOLF," "MY LADY ROTHA," ETC.


With 48 Illustrations by R. Caton Woodville. Crown 8vo, Cloth,
ornamental, $1.50.


"Deserves a place among the best historical fiction of the latter part
of this century. The gradual maddening of the people by agitators, the
rising of those who have revenges to feed, the burnings and the outrages
are described in a masterly way. The attack on the castle of St. Alais,
the hideous death of the steward, the looting of the great building, and
the escape of the young lovers--these incidents are told in that
breathless way which Weyman has made familiar in other stories. It is
only when one has finished the book and has gone back to reread certain
passages that the dramatic power and the sustained passion of these
scenes are clearly felt."--SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE.

"'The Red Cockade,' a story of the French Revolution, shows, in the
first place, careful study and deliberate, well-directed effort. Mr.
Weyman ... has caught the spirit of the times.... The book is brimful of
romantic incidents. It absorbs one's interest from the first page to the
last; it depicts human character with truth, and it causes the good and
brave to triumph. In a word, it is real romance."--SYRACUSE POST.

"We have in this novel a powerful but not an exaggerated study of the
spirit of the high born and the low born which centuries of aristocratic
tyranny and democratic suffering engendered in France. It is history
which we read here, and not romance, but history which is so perfectly
written, so veritable, that it blends with the romantic associations in
which it is set as naturally as the history in Shakespeare's plays
blends with the poetry which vitalizes and glorifies it."--MAIL AND
EXPRESS, NEW YORK.

"It will be scarcely more than its due to say that this will always rank
among Weyman's best work. In the troublous times of 1789 in France its
action is laid, and with marvellous skill the author has delineated the
most striking types of men and women who made the Revolution so
terrible."--NEW YORK WORLD.

"'The Red Cockade' is a novel of events, instinct with the spirit of the
eighteenth century and full of stirring romance. The tragic period of
the French Revolution forms a frame in which to set the adventures of
Adrien du Pont, Vicomte de Saux, and the part he plays in those days of
peril has a full measure of dramatic interest.... Mr. Weyman has
evidently studied the history of the revolution with a profound
realization of its intense tragedy."--DETROIT FREE PRESS.

"The action of the story is rapid and powerful. The Vicomte's struggle
with his own prejudices, his unhappy position in regard to his friends,
the perils he encounters, and the great bravery he shows in his devotion
to Denise are strikingly set forth, while the historical background is
made vivid and convincing--the frenzy caused by the fall of the Bastile,
the attacks of the mob, the defence and strategy of the nobility, all
being described with dramatic skill and verisimilitude. It is a
fascinating and absorbing tale, which carries the reader with it, and
impresses itself upon the mind as only a novel of unusual merit and
power can do."--BOSTON BEACON.

"The story gives a view of the times which is apart from the usual, and
marked with a fine study of history and of human conditions and impulse
on Mr. Weyman's part. Regarding his varied and well-chosen characters
one cares only to say that they are full of interest and admirably
portrayed.... It is one of the most spirited stories of the hour, and
one of the most delightfully freighted with suggestion."--CHICAGO
INTERIOR.

"With so striking a character for his hero, it is not wonderful that Mr.
Weyman has evolved a story that for ingenuity of plot and felicity of
treatment is equal to some of his best efforts.... 'The Red Cockade' is
one of the unmistakably strong historical romances of the
season."--BOSTON HERALD.

"We are greatly mistaken if the 'Red Cockade' does not take rank with
the very best book that Mr. Weyman has written."--SCOTSMAN.


       *       *       *       *       *


SOPHIA

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," ETC.


With 12 Illustrations by C. Hammond. Crown 8vo, cloth, ornamental,
$1.50.


"Mr. Weyman's new romance illustrates the types and manners of
fashionable London society in the year 1742. In everything that means
the revival of an historical atmosphere it is skilful, and, on the
whole, just. The characters also are well realized.... 'Sophia' is a
decidedly interesting novel.... The tale moves swiftly, hurrying on from
the town to the heath, from hatred to love, from imprisonment on bread
and water to diamonds ... and a dozen other things. Sophia, the heroine,
is a bundle of girlish foolishness and charms. 'Sophia,' the book, is a
bundle of more or less extraordinary episodes woven into a story in the
most beguiling manner."--NEW YORK TRIBUNE, April, 1900.

"It is a good, lively, melodramatic story of love and adventure ... it
is safe to say that nobody who reads the lively episode in the first
chapter will leave the book unfinished, because there is not a moment's
break in the swift and dramatic narrative until the last page.... The
dramatic sequence is nearly faultless."--TRIBUNE, CHICAGO.

"Sophia, with her mistakes, her adventures, and her final surrender;
Sophia moving among the eighteenth century world of fashion at Vauxhall;
Sophia flying through the country roads, pursued by an adventurer, and
Sophia captured by her husband, transport one so far from this
work-a-day life that the reader comes back surprised to find that this
prosaic world is still here after that too-brief excursion into the
realm of fancy."--NEW YORK COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER.

"The gem of the book is its description of the long coach-ride made by
Sophia to Sir Hervey's home in Sussex, the attempt made by highwaymen to
rob her, and her adventures at the paved ford and in the house made
silent by smallpox, where she took refuge. This section of the story is
almost as breathless as Smollett.... In the general firmness of touch,
and sureness of historic portrayal, the book deserves high
praise."--BUFFALO EXPRESS.

"'Sophia' contains, in its earlier part, a series of incidents that is,
we believe, the most ingenious yet planned by its author.... The
adventure develops and grows, the tension increases with each page, to
such an extent that the hackneyed adjective, 'breathless,' finds an
appropriate place."--NEW YORK MAIL AND EXPRESS.

"'Sophia,' his latest, is also one of his best. A delightful spirit of
adventure hangs about the story; something interesting happens in every
chapter. The admirable ease of style, the smooth and natural dialogue,
the perfect adjustment of events and sequences conceal all the usual
obtrusive mechanism, and hold the curiosity of the reader throughout the
development of an excellent plot and genuine people."--PUBLIC LEDGER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

"Those who read Mr. Stanley J. Weyman's 'Castle Inn' with delight, will
find in his 'Sophia' an equally brilliant performance, in which they are
introduced to another part of the Georgian era.... Mr. Weyman knows the
eighteenth century from top to bottom, and could any time be more
suitable for the writer of romance?... There is only one way to define
the subtle charm and distinction of this book, and that is to say that
it deserves a place on the book-shelf beside those dainty volumes in
which Mr. Austin Dobson has embalmed the very spirit of the period of
the hoop and the patch, the coffee-house, and the sedan chair. And could
Mr. Stanley Weyman ask for better company for his books than
that?"--EVENING SUN, NEW YORK.

"Contains what is probably the most ingenious and exciting situation
even he has ever invented."--BOOK BUYER, NEW YORK.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE CASTLE INN.

A ROMANCE.

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN.

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," "SHREWSBURY,"
ETC., ETC.


With six full-page Illustrations by Walter Appleton Clark. Crown 8vo,
Cloth, ornamental, $1.50.


A tale which is full of old-world romance and adventure. It has a strong
flavor of the under life in England when George the Third was young,
when sign-posts served also as gibbets, when travel was by coach and
highwaymen were many, when men drank deep and played high. There are
plenty of stirring scenes along the way, plenty of treachery and
fighting at cross-purposes which lead to intricate and dramatic
situations. The heroine's charms recall Mlle. de Cocheforet in 'Under
the Red Robe,' and she proves herself a maid of spirit through all the
mishaps which befall her. One of the most notable things about 'The
Castle Inn' is the way in which Mr. Weyman has caught the spirit of the
age, and manages to imbue his readers with its feeling."--DETROIT FREE
PRESS.

" ... In 'The Castle Inn,' this master of romance tells a story of the
time of George III, in the third person.... A story of rapid action,
with a swinging succession of moving incidents that keep the reader
incessantly on the _qui vive_. It deals with human emotions with
directness and thoughtfulness."--THE PRESS, PHILA., PA.

" ... 'The Castle Inn' ... is so fresh and entertaining that it takes
one back to 'A Gentleman of France,' and other good things this author
did several years ago. Mr. Weyman, in looking about for an appropriate
setting for his romance, very wisely eschews scenes and people of
to-day, and chooses, instead, England a hundred and thirty years ago,
when George III. was on her throne, and living was a far more
picturesque business than it is now. Beautiful maidens could be
kidnapped then; daring lovers faced pistols and swords in behalf of
their sweethearts, and altogether the pace was a lively one. Mr. Weyman
knows how to use the attractive colorings to the best advantage
possible."--CHICAGO EVENING POST.

" ... a piece of work which is infinitely better than anything else
which he has accomplished. He has treated the eighteenth century, the
time of the elder Pitt, with a grasp and a sympathy that presage a
greater reputation for this novelist than he has enjoyed hitherto. The
story itself is worth the telling, but the great thing is the way it is
told."--NEW YORK SUN.

" ... he has a firm grasp of his period in this book, and revives the
atmosphere of the last century in England, with its shallow graces and
profound brutality, coherently and even with eloquence ... it is a most
interesting story, which should please the reader of romantic tastes and
sustain the author's reputation."--NEW YORK TRIBUNE.

"The characters in the book are all entertaining, and many of them are
droll, while a few, like the conscientious Mr. Fishwick, the attorney,
and the cringing parasite, Mr. Thomasson, are, in their own way,
masterpieces of character study. Take it all in all, 'The Castle Inn' is
in many ways the best work which has yet come from Mr. Weyman's
pen."--COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER, NEW YORK.

"Mr. Weyman has surpassed himself in 'The Castle Inn.' From cover to
cover the book teems with adventure and romance, and the love episode is
delicious. Julia will live as one of the most graceful heroines in the
literature of our time.... We get an excellent idea of the doings of
fashionable society in the time when George III. was young, and
altogether the volume can be heartily recommended as the best thing that
Weyman has done, and, in the opinion of one, at least, the most
fascinating book of the season."--HOME JOURNAL, NEW YORK.


       *       *       *       *       *


COUNT HANNIBAL

A ROMANCE OF THE COURT OF FRANCE

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," "THE CASTLE
INN," ETC., ETC.


With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth, ornamental, $1.50


"It is very seldom that one runs across a historical novel the plot of
which is so ably sustained, the characters so strongly drawn, the local
color or atmosphere so satisfactory.... 'Count Hannibal' is the
strongest and most interesting novel as yet written by this popular
author."--BOSTON TIMES.

"Stanley J. Weyman has had hundreds of imitators since he wrote 'A
Gentleman of France,' but no man has yet surpassed him. I know of no
book in the whole list of popular favorites that holds one's interest
more intensely or more continuously than 'Count Hannibal' does. And what
an insistent, throat-gripping interest it is!

What is the use of hoping for a decadence of the craze for historical
romances so long as the public is fed on books like this? Such a story
has zest for the most jaded palate; nay, it can hold the interest even
of a book reviewer. From the first page to the last there is not a
moment when one's desire to finish the book weakens. Along with the
ordinary interest of curiosity there goes that of a delightful and
unique love story involving no little skill in character
delineation."--RECORD-HERALD, CHICAGO.

"A spirited, tersely interesting and most vivid story of scenes and
incidents and portrayals of various characters that lived and fought and
bled in the lurid days that saw the massacre of St. Bartholomew.... This
is Mr. Weyman's most graphic and realistic novel."--PICAYUNE, NEW
ORLEANS.

"Mr. Weyman has surpassed himself in 'Count Hannibal.' The scene of the
story is laid chiefly in Paris, at the time of the massacre of St.
Bartholomew.... We are made to grasp the soul of Count Hannibal and are
tacitly asked to let its envelope take care of itself.... Never has Mr.
Weyman achieved, in fact, a higher degree of verisimilitude. Count
Hannibal may leave us breathless with his despotic methods, but he is
not abnormal; he is one of the Frenchmen who shared the temper which
made the St. Bartholomew, and he is intensely human too ... how the
tangle of events in which he and half a dozen others are involved is
straightened out we refrain from disclosing. The reader who once takes
up this book will want to find all this out for himself."--NEW YORK
TRIBUNE.

"A story in Mr. Weyman's best vein, with the crimson horror of St.
Bartholomew as an historical setting. 'Count Hannibal' is a worthy
companion of 'A Gentleman of France' and 'The Red Cockade,' and Mr.
Weyman's hand is as cunning as ever in fashioning a romance which will
send a thrill through the most jaded reader and keep even a reviewer
from his bed."--BOOKMAN, LONDON.

"The book is rapid, is absorbing, and the hero is a distinctly
interesting character in himself, apart from his deeds of
daring."--ATHENÆUM.

"Mr. Stanley Weyman's 'Count Hannibal' is fully worthy of his great
reputation--the style is brilliant, easy and clear; the invention of
subject and the turns of fortune in the story surprising; above all, the
subtle painting of a man and a woman's heart is done with inexhaustible
knowledge."--GUARDIAN.

"A picturesque and vigorous romance. The narrative will be followed with
breathless interest."--TIMES, LONDON.


LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK.