    "Germany has been martyrizing Belgium. She has from that
    moment onwards turned the land into a prison: the
    frontiers are armed against Belgians like a battle
    front.. All our constitutional liberties have been
    abolished. There is no longer safety anywhere; the
    life of our citizens is at the mercy of the
    policeman,--arbitrary, limitless, pitiless ... Belgian
    industrial idleness has been the creation of the
    Germans, maintained by them for their own profit.[32]
    To these 500,000 unemployed they have for the last month
    been saying: 'Either you will sign a contract to work
    for Germany, or you will be reduced to slavery.' In
    either case, it means exile, deportation, forced labour
    in the interests of the enemy, and against the interests
    of our country: formidable punishments, the cruellest
    ever invented by tyranny for the punishment of
    crimes--and what _are_ the crimes alleged?... On the
    western front, Belgian workmen--your brothers and
    ours--are being forced to dig trenches, to build
    aviation camps, to fortify the German lines, and when
    the victims, in spite of everything, are firm in their
    refusal to take part in work forbidden by International
    Law, they are starved and beaten into illness, wounded,
    and sometimes even _killed_.

    "In Germany, they are turned on to work in mines, and at
    lime-kilns, quite regardless of their age, profession,
    or trade. Youths of seventeen, old men of seventy, are
    deported in haphazard masses. _Is not this a revival of
    ancient Slavery with all its horrors_?... Do you know,
    brothers, what the Germans throw to their victims by way
    of pay? 30 pfennigs (3d.) a day!

    "Workers: _Never forget that the soldiers-who are_
    _acting as the torturers or our Belgian workmen are
    themselves German workers!_

    "In the depths of our distress, we count on you. It is
    for you to act! For ourselves, even if brute force
    succeeds for the moment in reducing our bodies to
    servitude, we shall never give our consent.

    "A final word: Whatever tortures we may undergo, we do
    not wish for Peace except with the independence of our
    country and the triumph of justice.

    "THE WORKMEN OF BELGIUM."


FOOTNOTES:

[32] By levying on Belgium a war contribution which already exceeds
£40,000,000--by transporting to Germany food, merchandise and various
products to the value of more than £200,000,000--by seizing and
despatching to their own country the greater portion of our raw
material, machines and accessories--by issuing threatening edicts to
prevent localities from using the unemployed on their own important
works of public utility.


CONCLUSION


What is our object?

Is it to incite our soldiers to commit, if chance arises, atrocities
like theirs? We repudiate with horror a thought such as that.
_Defensive_ reprisals (asphyxiating gas, liquid fire, etc.) are
sometimes indispensable. Reprisals for _revenge_ would be unworthy of
us. But--without speaking of personal punishments, demanded by outraged
conscience, and essential in order that the two indivisible principles
of right and of responsibility may still exist in the world--we must
make it absolutely impossible for the Wild Beast to break out again. And
how, when the settling time draws near, and, in spite of weariness, a
new effort is needed to realise conditions of peace with guarantees for
the future--how could the Allied Nations accept the sacrifices still
demanded of them, if they remained in ignorance?

It is not enough for these crimes to be known by Governments and by a
few hundred people with leisure and inclination to read collections of
great volumes. They must be known by everybody, by the entire people, by
the People, who--in our proud and free countries--control, support,
direct their Governments and are the sole masters of their own destiny.

Our peoples ought to know the crimes committed in the name of "Kultur,"
in order, at all costs, to take the precautions necessary to prevent for
ever their return. That is our first object. The second is this: to all
our martyrs we have a sacred duty--that of remembrance. There, where
they fell, we shall doubtless carve their names in stone or bronze. But
what of a time further away? When, after the long sufferings of this
war, freed humanity takes up again its works of peace, we shall see the
Germans reappear in every land, at every cross-road--men of commerce,
industry, finance, science, men of the people and of society--in every
place where those of all countries, all races and all colours meet and
rub elbows. And what is our attitude to be? Our answer is this: So long
as the nation in whose name and by whose hands these atrocities have
been committed has not herself solemnly cast from her the scoundrels who
dragged her into such decadence, we shall consider that it would betray
our martyrs for us even to rub shoulders with their executioners, and
that until the day arrives--if it ever does arrive--of a striking moral
repentance, to _forget_ would be to _condone_.

L. MIRMAN, Prefect of Meurthe-et-Moselle.

G. SIMON, G. KELLER, Mayor of Nancy. Mayor of Lunéville.