Accepted by Chillon John as a loan, says Dame Gossip, and no sooner
received than consumed by the pressing necessities of a husband with the
Rose Beauty of England to support in the comforts and luxuries he deemed
befitting.

Still the Dame leans to her opinion that 'Carinthia Jane' may have been
seen about London: for 'where we have much smoke there must be fire.' And
the countess never denying an imputation not brought against her in her
hearing, the ballad was unchallenged and London's wags had it their own
way. Among the reasons why they so persistently hunted the earl, his air
of a smart correctness shadowed by this new absurdity invited them, as
when a spot of mud on the trimmest of countenances arrests observation:
Humour plucked at him the more for the good faith of his handsome look
under the prolific little disfigurement. Besides, a wealthy despot, with
no conception of any hum around him, will have the wags in his track as
surely as the flexibles in front: they avenge his exactions.

Fleetwood was honestly unaware of ridicule in the condition of inventive
mania at his heels. Scheming, and hesitating to do, one-half of his mind
was absorbed with the problem of how now to treat the mother of his boy.
Her behaviour in becoming a mother was acknowledged to be good: the
production of a boy was good--considerate, he almost thought. He grew so
far reconciled to her as to have intimations of a softness coming on; a
wish to hear her speak of the trifling kindness done to the sister of
Madge in reward of kindness done to her; wishes for looks he remembered,
secret to him, more his own than any possessions. Dozens of men had
wealth, some had beautiful wives; none could claim as his own that face
of the look of sharp steel melting into the bridal flower, when she
sprang from her bed to defend herself and recognized the intruder at her
window; stood smitten:--'It is my, husband.' Moonlight gave the variation
of her features.

And that did not appease the resentment tearing him from her, so
justifiable then, as he forced himself to think, now hideous. Glimpses of
the pictures his deeds painted of him since his first meeting with this
woman had to be shunned. He threw them off; they were set down to the
mystery men are. The degrading, utterly different, back view of them
teaches that Life is an irony. If the teaching is not accepted, and we
are to take the blame, can we bear to live? Therefore, either way the
irony of Life is proved. Young men straining at thought, in the grip of
their sensations, reach this logical conclusion. They will not begin by
examining the ground they stand on, and questioning whether they have
consciences at peace with the steps to rearward.

Having established Life as the coldly malignant element, which induces to
what it chastises, a loathing of womanhood, the deputed Mother of Life,
ensues, by natural sequence. And if there be one among women who disturbs
the serenity we choose to think our due, she wears for us the sinister
aspect of a confidential messenger between Nemesis and the Parcae.
Fleetwood was thus compelled to regard Carinthia as both originally and
successively the cause of his internal as well as his exterior
discomfort; otherwise those glimpses would have burnt into perpetual
stigmas. He had also to get his mind away from her. They pleaded against
him volubly with the rising of her image into it.

His manager at the mines had sent word of ominous discontent down there.
His presence might be required. Obviously, then, the threatened place was
unfitting for the Countess of Fleetwood. He despatched a kind of order
through Mr. Howell Edwards, that she should remove to Esslemont to escape
annoyances. Esslemont was the preferable residence. She could there
entertain her friends, could spend a pleasanter time there.

He waited for the reply; Edwards deferred it.

