The first, which is merely a wash, is composed of 1 part of iron, 1 part
of sulphate of copper, and 20 parts, by weight, of distilled water. The
second solution, or bronze, is composed of 4 parts of verdigris and 16
parts of white vinegar. The medals should be filed, and well cleaned
with a brush, earth, and water; and being well wiped, should have a
portion of the first solution passed slightly over their faces, by means
of a brush, and then be wiped; this gives a slight grey tint to the
surface, and causes the ready adhesion of the verdigris, &c. The second
solution is then to be rubbed over by means of a brush, until they have
acquired the deep red colour of copper; they are then to be left an hour
to dry, after which they are to be polished with a very soft brush and
rouge, or the red oxide of iron in fine powder. The polish is to be
completed by the brush alone, the medals being passed now and then over
the palm of the hand.--_Verly_.


_Culture of Celery_.

Mr. Knight, president of the Horticultural Society, has found that by
keeping the ground in which celery was planted, constantly wet, it grew
by the middle of September to the height of five feet, and its quality
was in proportion to its size. Mr. K. also recommends planting at
greater distances than is usually the case, and covering the beds, into
which the young seedlings are first removed, with half-rotten dung,
overspread to the depth of about two inches with mould; under which
circumstances, whenever the plants are removed, the dung will adhere
tenaciously to their roots, and it will not be necessary to deprive the
plants of any part of their leaves.--Mr. Wedgewood also states, that
good celery may be readily obtained by transplanting seedling plants
that have remained in the seed bed, till they had acquired a
considerable size.--_Quarterly Journal_.


_Dwarfs_.

Richard Gibson, the dwarf, married Anne Shepherd, another dwarf. Each of
them was only 3 feet 10 inches high. They had nine children, of whom
five lived to maturity, and were of a proper size. Richard, the father,
lived to the age of 75, his little widow to that of 89. It is
presumptive, that the dwarf size is only occasioned by some obstruction
during _utero_--gestation. The full size of the children proves
that nature does not perpetuate abortions.


_Cruelty and Epicurism_.

A sharp axe, on the principle of a punch, is used in _slaughtering
bullocks_, not to kill them at once, but to cut a circular hole in
the skull, into which a stick is introduced _to stir up the
brains_, for the purpose of making the meat more tender! The throat
is not attempted to be cut till after the infliction of this torture,
horrible even to think of, which instantly causes the most convulsive
agonies, such as are never seen in death of any other kind.

Lord Somerville's mode of _pithing_ animals, brought forward with
the most humane views, is a _horrible operation_. The body is
deprived of sensation, _while the living head rolls its eye in agony
on its tormentors_.--_Sir Everard Home_.

       *       *       *       *       *


USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS.

       *       *       *       *       *


APPLES.


The preservation of apples is now brought to great perfection, by
keeping them in jars secure from the action of air; but there is one
method of preparing them for culinary purposes which is not practised in
this country. Any good baking sort, which is liable to rot, if peeled
and cut into slices about the thickness of one-sixth of an inch, and
dried in the sun, or in a slow oven, till sufficiently desiccated, may
be afterwards kept in boxes in a dry place for a considerable time, and
only require to be soaked in water for an hour or two before using.

At a recent meeting of the Horticultural Society, a large collection of
the best late varieties of the apple, as grown in America, were
exhibited. It was a remarkable circumstance, that, while these fruits
are unusually handsome, none of them, except the New-town pippin, were,
although sweet and pleasant, comparable to our fine European apples; and
yet the New-town pippin, the only good variety, is as much superior to
any variety of apple known in Europe as the others were inferior.

       *       *       *       *       *


BLACK DYE AND INK.


The following is a process for the preparation of a black dye, for which
a patent was taken out at Vienna by M. Honig:--Logwood is to be boiled
several times in water, and a little sub-carbonate of potash to be added
to the decoctions, the quantity being so moderated that it shall not
change the colour to blue; the stuff to be dyed is then to be plunged
into this bath. This stuff may be either animal or vegetable. When it is
well impregnated with colouring matter, it is to be withdrawn, and,
without being exposed to air, is to be introduced into a solution of
green-vitriol, and left there until it has obtained the desired black
hue. In preparing the _ink_, the decoction of logwood is used in
place of the infusion of galls.

       *       *       *       *       *


MALT LIQUORS.

_By a Physician_.


I am much disposed to extol the virtues of malt liquors. When properly
fermented, well hopped, and of a moderate strength, they are refreshing,
wholesome, and nourishing. It is a common observation, that those who
drink sound malt liquors are stronger than those who drink wine; and to
those who are trained to boxing, and other athletic exercises, old
home-brewed beer is particularly recommended, drawn from the cask, and
not bottled. Hence Jackson, the celebrated trainer, affirms, if any
person accustomed to drink wine would but try malt liquor for a month,
he would find himself so much the better for it, that he would soon take
to the one, and abandon the other. Some suppose the superior bottom of
the British soldiery to be owing, in a great measure, to their use of
malt liquor.

  "Your wine-tippling, dram-sipping fellows retreat,
  But your beer-drinking Britons can never be beat."

  DR. ARNE.


Good home-brewed beer has been styled by some _vinum Britannicum_,
and by others liquid bread. There can be no doubt of its highly
nutritive and wholesome qualities, and it is much to be regretted, that
so few families in this kingdom now ever brew their own beer, but are
content to put up with the half-fermented, adulterated wash found in
public-houses, or with the no less adulterated and impure drink called
porter.

Malt liquors are divided into small beer, strong beer, ale, and porter.
Small beer is best calculated for common use, being less heating and
stimulating than other malt liquors. When used soft and mild, after
having been thoroughly fermented and purified, it forms an excellent
diluent with food, more especially at dinner. Sydenham was in the habit
of using it in this manner, both at dinner and supper, and he justly
considered its being well hopped a great advantage. In general it is,
without doubt, the best drink which can be taken at dinner, by persons
in the middle and higher ranks of society, who are in the habit of
drinking wine after that meal. As it abounds with carbonic acid gas, or
fixed air, it is the most useful diluent for labourers, because it cools
the body, abates thirst, and, at the same time, stimulates very
moderately the animal powers. Small beer, when stale and hard, is
unwholesome to all persons.

Sound strong beer is very nutritious and wholesome; indeed, it is
generally considered more nourishing than wine. It is a most useful
drink to the weak, the lean, and the laborious, provided they are not
very subject to flatulency, nor troubled with disorders of the breast.
If taken in moderate quantity, and of the best quality, it will often be
found of great service to the invalid, in assisting to restore his
strength, spirits, and flesh. It should be drunk from the cask; bottled
beer being more likely to disagree with the stomach, and to produce
flatulency.

There is a general prejudice against beer in the case of the bilious
and the sedentary, but it appears to me without sufficient foundation.
Bilious people are such as have weak stomachs and impaired digestion,
and those who are sedentary are nearly, in these respects, always in a
similar state. Now, I have not observed that beer tends to weaken such
stomachs, or to become ascescent, or otherwise to disagree with them; on
the contrary, I believe, it will be found, in the majority of cases,
that this beverage agrees much better than wine, since it is far less
disposed to acescency, and better fitted to act as a stomachic, and,
therefore, to invigorate both the digestive organs, and the constitution
at large. That it is very far superior for such persons to diluted
spirit, in any form, I am fully persuaded. Of course, I here speak of
sound home-brewed strong beer, and of a moderate strength. No man can
answer for the effects of the stuff usually sold as beer; and we know
strong ale is always difficult of digestion.

Strong ale is, undoubtedly, the most nutritive of all malt liquors, but
being digested with greater difficulty than the other sorts, it cannot
with propriety be taken but by those who are strong, and who use much
active exercise. The best ale is made from fine pale malt, and with hops
of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, but the smaller
the bubbles the better. I ought to add, that in some cases of general
weakness, where the individual is certainly recovering, and is possessed
of a good measure of strength of stomach, a little of the finest ale
daily will be found highly restorative.

Porter, when good, is not an unwholesome drink; but it is very difficult
to procure it of the best quality. I cannot recommend it to those who
are desirous of preserving their health.--_Sure Methods of Improving
Health, &c._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.


"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--_Wotton_.

       *       *       *       *       *


SAMBO'S SERMON,

(_From the New York Statesman._)


"Strate is de rode an narrer is de paff which leadeff to
glory."--"Brederen believers!--You semble dis nite to har de word, and
hab it splained and monstrated to you; yes, an I ten for splain it clear
as de lite ob de libin day. We're all wicked sinners har below--it's
fac, my brederen, and I tell you how it cum. You see, my frens,

  "Adam was de fus man,
  Ebe was de todder,
  Cane was a wicked man,
  Kase he kill he brodder.


"Adam and Ebe were bofe black men, and so was Cane and Able. Now I spose
it seem to strike you a understandin how de fus wite man cum. Why I let
you no. Den you see when Cane kill de brodder de Massa cum, and he say,
'Cane whar you a brodder Able?' Cane say, 'I don't know, Massa.' He cum
gin an say, 'Cane whar you a brodder Able?' Cane say, 'I don't know,
Massa;' but de nigger noe'd all de time. Massa now git mad--cum
gin--peak mity sharp dis time,--'Cane whar your brodder Able, you
nigger?' Cane now git friten, and he turn _wite_: and dis is de way
de fus wite man cum pon dis arth! an if it had not been for dat dare
nigger, Cane, we'd neba been troubled wid dese sassy wites pon de face
ob dis circumlar globe. Now sing de forty lebenth hym, ticular meter."

       *       *       *       *       *


EPIGRAM (FROM THE ITALIAN)


_On a Father who would not allow his Son to marry until he had arrived
at years of discretion_.

  Poor Strephon is young, and lacks wisdom 'tis said,
  And therefore still longer must tarry;
  If he waits tho', methinks, till he's sense in his head,
  I'll be sworn that he never will marry.

       *       *       *       *       *

