Produced by Jeroen Hellingman and the PG Distributed Proofreaders Team


                   The Philippine Islands, 1493-1803

   Explorations by early navigators, descriptions of the islands and
   their peoples, their history and records of the catholic missions,
    as related in contemporaneous books and manuscripts, showing the
   political, economic, commercial and religious conditions of those
   islands from their earliest relations with European nations to the
                  beginning of the nineteenth century

                          Volume V, 1582-1583


 Edited and annotated by Emma Helen Blair and James Alexander Robertson
  with historical introduction and additional notes by Edward Gaylord
                                Bourne.


CONTENTS OF VOLUME V


    Preface      9
    Documents of 1582

            Letter to Felipe II. Gonzalo Ronquillo de
            Peñalosa; Manila, June 16
             [1]Relacion de las Yslas Filipinas. Miguel
             de Loarca; [Arevalo, June, 1582)
            Letter to Felipe II. Fray Domingo de Salazar;
            Manila, June 20
            Letter to the viceroy. Juan Baptista Roman;
            Cabite, June 25
            Letter to Felipe II. Gonzalo Ronquillo de
            Peñalosa; Manila, July 1
            Papal decrees regarding the Dominicans. Gregory
            XIII; Rome, September 15 and October 20
            Report on the offices saleable in the
            Philippines. [Unsigned; 1582?]

    Documents of 1583

            Complaints against Peñalosa. Gabriel de Ribera;
            [1583?]
            Affairs in the Philipinas Islands. Domingo
            de Salazar; [Manila, 1583]
            Instructions to commissary of the
            Inquisition. Pedro de los Rios, and others;
            Mexico, March 1
            Foundation of the Audiencia of Manila (to be
            concluded). Felipe II; Aranjuez, May 5

    Bibliographical Data


ILLUSTRATIONS


Map of South America and Antilles, showing Strait of Magellan (original
in colors), in _Beschryvinghe van de gantsche Custe_, by Jan Huygen
van Linschoten (Amstelredam, M.D.XCVI); reduced photographic facsimile,
from copy in Boston Public Library
Autograph signature of Domingo de Salazar, O.P., first bishop of
Manila; photographic facsimile from MS. in Archivo general de Indias,
Sevilla


PREFACE


The period covered by this volume is short--only the years 1582-83,
which close the second decade of Spanish occupation of the Philippine
Islands; but in that time occur some events of great importance, and
certain influences which deeply affect early Philippine history are
revealed. The coming (in 1581) of the zealous and intrepid bishop,
Domingo de Salazar, was a red-letter day for the natives of the
islands. The Spanish conquerors are ruthlessly oppressing the Indians,
caring but little for the opposition made by the friars; but Salazar
exerts as far as possible his ecclesiastical authority, and, besides,
vigorously urges the king to shield those unfortunate victims of
Spanish rapacity. Various humane laws are accordingly enacted for the
protection of the natives; but of course this interference by the
bishop occasions a bitter hostility between the ecclesiastical and
the secular powers--perhaps never to be quieted. With Salazar come
Jesuit fathers, who establish in the islands the missionary work of
that order. In 1582 Japanese pirates begin to threaten Luzón, but are
defeated and held in check by the Spanish troops. In 1583 occur two
most notable events: one of these is the appointment for the islands
of a royal Audiencia, or high court of justice--especially ordered
by the king to watch over and shield the Indians; the other is the
opening there of a branch of the Inquisition or Holy Office.