
In all great wars involving the destinies of nations, it is neither the
number of battles, nor the names, nor the loss of life, that remain
fixed in the mind of the masses; but simply the one decisive struggle
which either in its immediate or remote sequence closes the conflict. Of
the hundred battles of the great Napoleon, Waterloo alone lingers in the
memory. The Franco-Prussian War, so fraught with changes to Europe,
presents but one name that will never fade,--Sedan. Even in our own
country, how few battles of the Revolution can we enumerate; but is
there a child who does not know that Bunker Hill sounded the death-knell
of English rule in the land? And now, but twenty years since the
greatest conflict of modern times was closed at Appomattox, how few can
we readily recall of the scores of blood-stained battle-fields on which
our friends and neighbors fought and fell; but is there one, old or
young, cultured or ignorant, of the North or of the South, that cannot
speak of Gettysburg? But what is Gettysburg either in its first day's
Federal defeat, or its second day's terrible slaughter around Little
Round Top, without the _third_ day's immortal charge by Pickett and
his brave Virginians. In it we have the culmination of the Rebellion. It
took long years after to drain _all_ the life-blood from the foe,
but never again did the wave of Rebellion rise so gallantly high as when
it beat upon the crest of Cemetery Ridge.

The storming of the heights of Inkerman, the charge of the noble Six
Hundred, the fearful onslaught of the Guards at Waterloo, the scaling of
Lookout Mountain,--have all been sung in story, and perhaps always will
be; but they all pale beside the glory that will ever enshroud the
heroes who, with perhaps not literally "cannon to right of them" and
"cannon to left of them," but with a hundred cannon belching forth death
in _front_ of them, hurled themselves into the centre of a great
army and had victory almost within their grasp.

To describe this charge, we will go back to the evening of the 2nd of
July, and recall upon what basis the cautious Lee could undertake so
fearful a responsibility. The victorious Southrons fresh from their
triumphs at Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville had entered the North
carrying consternation and dismay to every hamlet, with none to oppose;
their forward march was one of spoil, and it was not till the 1st of
July that they met their old foemen, the Army of the Potomac, in the
streets of Gettysburg, and after a fierce conflict drove them back. The
second day's conflict was a terrible slaughter, and at its close the
Federal Army, although holding its position, was to a certain extent
disheartened. Many of our best generals and commanding officers were
killed or wounded, scores of regiments and batteries were nearly wiped
out, Sickles' line was broken and driven in and its position was held by
Longstreet. Little Round Top, the key of the position, was held only at
a frightful loss of life, and Ewell upon the right had gained a footing
upon the Ridge. The Rebel army was joyful and expectant of victory. The
morning of the 3rd of July opened clear and bright, and one hundred
thousand men faced each other awaiting the signal of conflict; but,
except the pushing of Ewell from his position, the hours passed on
relieved only by the rumbling of artillery carriages as they were massed
by Lee upon Seminary Ridge, and by Meade upon Cemetery Ridge. At twelve
o'clock Lee ascended the cupola of the Pennsylvania College, in quiet
surveyed the Union lines, and decided to strike for Hancock's Centre.
Meanwhile, Pickett with his three Virginia brigades had arrived from
Chambersburg and taken cover in the woods of Seminary Ridge. What Lee's
feelings must have been, as he looked at the hundred death-dealing
cannon massed on Cemetery Hill, and the fifty thousand men waiting
patiently in front and behind them, men whose valor he knew well in many
a bitter struggle--and then looked at his handful of brave Virginians,
three, small, decimated brigades which he was about to hurl into that
vortex of death,--no one will ever know. The blunder that sent the
Light Brigade to death at Balaklava was bad enough, but here were
five thousand men waiting to seek victory where, only the day before
ten thousand had lost their lives or their limbs in the same futile
endeavor. Leaving the college, Lee called a council of his generals at
Longstreet's headquarters, and the plan of attack was formed. It is said
that the level-headed Longstreet opposed the plan, and if so it was but
in keeping with his remarkable generalship. The attack was to be opened
with artillery fire to demoralize and batter the Federal line, and was
to be opened by a signal of two shots from the Washington Artillery. At
half-past one the report of the first gun rang out on the still, summer
air, followed a minute later by the second, and then came the roar and
flash of one hundred and thirty-eight rebel cannon. Almost immediately
one hundred Federal guns responded and the battle had begun. Shot and
shell tore through the air, crashing through batteries, tearing men and
horses to pieces; the very earth seemed to shake and the hills to reel
as the terrible thunders re-echoed amongst them. For nearly an hour
every conceivable form of ordnance known to modern gunnery hissed and
shrieked, whistled and screamed, as it went forth on its death-mission
till exhausted by excitement and heat the gunners slackened their fire
and silence reigned again.

Then Pickett and his brave legion stood up and formed for the
death-struggle; three remnants of brigades consisting of Garnett's
brigade:--the 8th, 18th, 19th, 28th, 56th Virginia; Armistead's
brigade:--the 9th, 14th, 38th, 53rd, 57th Virginia; Kempers's
brigade:--the 1st, 3rd, 7th, 11th, 24th Virginia. Their tattered flags
bore the scars of a score of battles and from their ranks the merciless
bullet had already taken two-thirds their number. In compact ranks,
their front scarcely covering two of Hancock's brigades, with flags
waving as if for a gala-day, Gen. Pickett saluted Longstreet and asked,
"Shall I go forward, sir?" but it was not in Longstreet's heart to send
those heroes of so many battles to certain death; and he turned away his
head,--when Pickett with that proud, impetuous air which has earned him
the title of the "Ney" of the Rebel army, exclaimed, "Sir! I _shall_
lead my division forward!" The orders now rang out, "_Attention_!
_Attention_!" and the men, realizing the end was near, cried out to
their comrades, "Good-by, boys! good-by!" Suddenly rang on the air the
final order from Pickett himself, as his sabre flashed from its
scabbard,--"_column forward! guide centre_!" And the brigades of
Kemper, Garnett and Armistead moved towards Cemetery Ridge as one man.
Soon Pettigrew's division emerged from the woods and followed in echelon
on Pickett's left flank, and Wilcox with his Alabama division moved out
to support his right flank--in all about fifteen thousand men. The
selection of these supports shows a lack of judgment which it would
almost seem impossible for Lee to have made. Pettigrew's division was
composed mostly of new troops from North Carolina, and had been terribly
used up in the first day's fight, and were in no condition to form part
of a forlorn hope. Wilcox's troops had also received very severe
punishment in the second day's engagement in his attack on the Ridge and
should have been replaced by fresh well-tried brigades. But the movement
had now begun and Lee with his generals about him watched anxiously for
the result.

[Illustration: MAJ. GEN. GEORGE E. PICKETT]

