"I don't doubt but that her Grace is right. Don't suppose that I am
criticizing your hospitality. We are to be at Gatherum ourselves
about the end of the month. It will be the first time I shall have
seen the place since your uncle's time."

The Prime Minister at this moment was sitting in his own particular
room at the Treasury Chambers, and before the entrance of his friend
had been conscientiously endeavouring to define for himself, not a
future policy, but the past policy of the last month or two. It had
not been for him a very happy occupation. He had become the Head of
the Government,--and had not failed, for there he was, still the
Head of the Government, with a majority at his back, and the six
months' vacation before him. They who were entitled to speak to him
confidentially as to his position, were almost vehement in declaring
his success. Mr. Rattler, about a week ago, had not seen any reason
why the Ministry should not endure at least for the next four years.
Mr. Roby, from the other side, was equally confident. But, on looking
back at what he had done, and indeed on looking forward into his
future intentions, he could not see why he, of all men, should be
Prime Minister. He had once been Chancellor of the Exchequer, filling
that office through two halcyon Sessions, and he had known the reason
why he had held it. He had ventured to assure himself at the time
that he was the best man whom his party could then have found for
that office, and he had been satisfied. But he had none of that
satisfaction now. There were men under him who were really at
work. The Lord Chancellor had legal reforms on foot. Mr. Monk
was busy, heart and soul, in regard to income tax and brewers'
licences,--making our poor Prime Minister's mouth water. Lord
Drummond was active among the colonies. Phineas Finn had at any rate
his ideas about Ireland. But with the Prime Minister,--so at least
the Duke told himself,--it was all a blank. The policy confided
to him and expected at his hands was that of keeping together a
Coalition Ministry. That was a task that did not satisfy him. And
now, gradually,--very slowly indeed at first, but still with a
sure step,--there was creeping upon him the idea that his power of
cohesion was sought for, and perhaps found, not in his political
capacity, but in his rank and wealth. It might, in fact, be the
case that it was his wife the Duchess,--that Lady Glencora of whose
wild impulses and general impracticability he had always been in
dread,--that she with her dinner parties and receptions, with her
crowded saloons, her music, her picnics, and social temptations, was
Prime Minister rather than he himself. It might be that this had been
understood by the coalesced parties,--by everybody, in fact, except
himself. It had, perhaps, been found that in the state of things
then existing, a ministry could be best kept together, not by
parliamentary capacity, but by social arrangements, such as his
Duchess, and his Duchess alone, could carry out. She and she only
would have the spirit and the money and the sort of cleverness
required. In such a state of things he of course, as her husband,
must be the nominal Prime Minister.

