((A.D. 1053.  This year was the great wind on Thomas's-mass-night,
and also the whole midwinter there was much wind; and it
was decreed that Rees, the Welsh king's brother, should be slain,
because he had done harm; and his head was brought to Gloucester
on Twelfth-day eve.  And the same year, before All Hallows-mass,
died Wulfsy, Bishop of Lichfield, and Godwin, Abbot of Winchcomb,
and Egelward, Abbot of Clastonbury, all within one month, and
Leofwine succeeded to the Bishopric of Lichfield, and Bishop
Aidred [Of Worcester] took the abbacy at Winchcomb, and Egelnoth
succeeded to the abbacy at Glastonbury.  And the same year died
Elfric, Odda's brother at Deorhurst; and his body resteth at
Pershore.  And the same year died Godwin the earl; and he fell
ill as he sat with the king at Winchester.  And Harold his son
succeeded to the earldom which his father before held; and Elgar,
the earl, succeeded to the earldom which Harold before held.))

((A.D. 1053.  In this year died Godwin, the earl, on the
seventeenth before the kalends of May, and he is buried at
Winchester, in the Old-minster; and Harold, the earl, his son,
succeeded to the earldom, and to all that which his father had
held: and Elgar, the earl, succeeded to the earldom which Harold
before held.))

A.D. 1054.  This year died Leo the holy pope, at Rome: and Victor
was chosen pope in his stead.  And in this year was so great loss
of cattle as was not remembered for many winters before.  This
year went Earl Siward with a large army against Scotland,
consisting both of marines and landforces; and engaging with the
Scots, he put to flight the King Macbeth; slew all the best in
the land; and led thence much spoil, such as no man before
obtained.  Many fell also on his side, both Danish and English;
even his own son, Osborn, and his sister's son, Sihward: and many
of his house-carls, and also of the king's, were there slain that
day, which was that of the Seven Sleepers.  This same year went
Bishop Aldred south over sea into Saxony, to Cologne, on the
king's errand; where he was entertained with great respect by the
emperor, abode there well-nigh a year, and received presents not
only from the court, but from the Bishop of Cologne and the
emperor.  He commissioned Bishop Leofwine to consecrate the
minster at Evesham; and it was consecrated in the same year, on
the sixth before the ides of October.  This year also died Osgod
Clapa suddenly in his bed, as he lay at rest.

((A.D. 1054.  This year went Siward the earl with a great army
into Scotland, both with a ship-force and with a landforce, and
fought against the Scots, and put to flight King Macbeth, and
slew all who were the chief men in the land, and led thence much
booty, such as no man before had obtained.  But his son Osborn,
and his sister's son Siward, and some of his house-carls, and
also of the king's, were there slain, on the day of the Seven
Sleepers.  The same year went Bishop Aldred to Cologne, over sea,
on the king's errand; and he was there received with much worship
by the emperor [Henry III], and there he dwelt well nigh a year;
and either gave him entertainment, both the Bishop of Cologne and
the emperor.  And he gave leave to Bishop Leofwine [Of Lichfield]
to consecrate the minster at Evesham on the sixth before the ides
of October.  In this year died Osgod suddenly in his bed.  And
this year died St. Leo the pope; and Victor was chosen pope in
his stead.))

A.D. 1055.  This year died Earl Siward at York; and his body lies
within the minster at Galmanho, (76) which he had himself ordered
to be built and consecrated, in the name of God and St. Olave, to
the honour of God and to all his saints.  Archbishop Kinsey
fetched his pall from Pope Victor.  Then, within a little time
after, a general council was summoned in London, seven nights
before mid-Lent; at which Earl Elgar, son of Earl Leofric, was
outlawed almost without any guilt; because it was said against
him that he was the betrayer of the king and of all the people of
the land.  And he was arraigned thereof before all that were
there assembled, though the crime laid to his charge was
unintentional.  The king, however, gave the earldom, which Earl
Siward formerly had, to Tosty, son of Earl Godwin.  Whereupon
Earl Elgar sought Griffin's territory in North-Wales; whence he
went to Ireland, and there gave him a fleet of eighteen ships,
besides his own; and then returned to Wales to King Griffin with
the armament, who received him on terms of amity.  And they
gathered a great force with the Irishmen and the Welsh: and Earl
Ralph collected a great army against them at the town of
Hereford; where they met; but ere there was a spear thrown the
English people fled, because they were on horses.  The enemy then
made a great slaughter there--about four hundred or five
hundred men; they on the other side none.  They went then to the
town, and burned it utterly; and the large minster (77) also
which the worthy Bishop Athelstan had caused to be built, that
they plundered and bereft of relic and of reef, and of all things
whatever; and the people they slew, and led some away.  Then an
army from all parts of England was gathered very nigh; (78) and
they came to Gloucester: whence they sallied not far out against
the Welsh, and there lay some time.  And Earl Harold caused the
dike to be dug about the town the while.  Meantime men began to
speak of peace; and Earl Harold and those who were with him came
to Bilsley, where amity and friendship were established between
them.  The sentence of outlawry against Earl Elgar was reversed;
and they gave him all that was taken from him before.  The fleet
returned to Chester, and there awaited their pay, which Elgar
promised them.  The slaughter was on the ninth before the calends
of November.  In the same year died Tremerig, the Welsh bishop,
soon after the plundering; who was Bishop Athelstan's substitute,
after he became infirm.

((A.D. 1055.  In this year died Siward the earl at York, and he
lies at Galmanho, in the minster which himself caused to be
built, and consecrated in God's and Olave's name.  And Tosty
succeeded to the earldom which he had held.  And Archbishop
Kynsey [Of York], fetched his pall from Pope Victor.  And soon
thereafter was outlawed Elgar the earl, son of Leofric the earl,
well-nigh without guilt.  But he went to Ireland and to Wales,
and procured himself there a great force, and so went to
Hereford: but there came against him Ralph the earl, with a large
army, and with a slight conflict he put them to flight, and much
people slew in the flight: and they went then into Hereford-port,
and that they ravaged, and burned the great minster which Bishop
Athelstan had built, and slew the priests within the minster, and
many in addition thereto, and took all the treasures therein, and
carried them away with them.  And when they had done the utmost
evil, this counsel was counselled: that Elgar the earl should be
inlawed, and be given his earldom, and all that had been taken
from him.  This ravaging happened on the 9th before the Kalends
of November.  In the same year died Tremerin the Welsh bishop [Of
St. David's] soon after that ravaging: and he was Bishop
Athelstan's coadjutor from the time that he had become infirm.))

((A.D. 1055.  In this year died Siward the earl: and then was
summoned a general council, seven days before Mid-lent; and they
outlawed Elgar the earl, because it was cast upon him that he was
a traitor to the king and to all the people of the land.  And he
made a confession of it before all the men who were there
gathered; though the word escaped him unintentionally.  And the
king gave the earldom to Tosty, son of Earl Godwin, which Siward
the earl before held.  And Elgar the earl sought Griffin's
protection in North-Wales.  And in this year Griffin and Elgar
burned St. Ethelbert's minster, and all the town of Hereford.))

A.D. 1056.  This year Bishop Egelric resigned his bishopric at
Durham, and retired to Peterborough minster; and his brother
Egelwine succeeded him.  The worthy Bishop Athelstan died on the
fourth before the ides of February; and his body lies at
Hereford.  To him succeeded Leofgar, who was Earl Harold's
mass-priest.  He wore his knapsack in his priesthood, until he was a
bishop.  He abandoned his chrism and his rood--his ghostly
weapons--and took to his spear and to his sword, after his
bishophood; and so marched to the field against Griffin the Welsh
king. (79)  But he was there slain, and his priests with him, and
Elnoth the sheriff, and many other good men with them; and the
rest fled.  This was eight nights before midsummer.  Difficult is
it to relate all the vexation and the journeying, the marching
and the fatigue, the fall of men, and of horses also, which the
whole army of the English suffered, until Earl Leofric, and Earl
Harold, and Bishop Eldred, came together and made peace between
them; so that Griffin swore oaths, that he would be a firm and
faithful viceroy to King Edward.  Then Bishop Eldred took to the
bishopric which Leofgar had before eleven weeks and four days.
The same year died Cona the emperor; and Earl Odda, whose body
lies at Pershore, and who was admitted a monk before his end;
which was on the second before the calends of September; a good
man and virtuous and truly noble.

A.D. 1057.  This year came Edward Etheling, son of King Edmund,
to this land, and soon after died.  His body is buried within St.
Paul's minster at London.  He was brother's son to King Edward.
King Edmund was called Ironside for his valour.  This etheling
King Knute had sent into Hungary, to betray him; but he there
grew in favour with good men, as God granted him, and it well
became him; so that he obtained the emperor's cousin in marriage,
and by her had a fair offspring.  Her name was Agatha.  We know
not for what reason it was done, that he should see his relation,
King Edward.  Alas!  that was a rueful time, and injurious to all
this nation--that he ended his life so soon after he came to
England, to the misfortune of this miserable people.  The same
year died Earl Leofric, on the second before the calends of
October; who was very wise before God, and also before the world;
and who benefited all this nation. (80)  He lies at Coventry
(81): and his son Elgar took to his territory.  This year died
Earl Ralph, on the twelfth before the calends of January; and
lies at Peterborough.  Also died Bishop Heca, in Sussex; and
Egelric was elevated to his see.  This year also died Pope
Victor; and Stephen was chosen pope, who was Abbot of Monut
Cassino.

((A.D. 1057.  In this year Edward Etheling, King Edmund's son,
came hither to land, and soon after died, and his body is buried
within St. Paul's minster at London.  And Pope Victor died, and
Stephen [IX.] was chosen pope: he was Abbot of Mont-Cassino.  And
Leofric the earl died, and Elgar his son succeeded to the earldom
which the father before held.))

A.D. 1058.  This year was Earl Elgar banished: but he soon came
in again by force, through Griffin's assistance: and a naval
armament came from Norway.  It is tedious to tell how it all fell
out.  In this same year Bishop Aldred consecrated the minster
church at Gloucester, which he himself had raised (82) to the
honour of God and St. Peter; and then went to Jerusalem (83) with
such dignity as no other man did before him, and betook himself
there to God.  A worthy gift he also offered to our Lord's
sepulchre; which was a golden chalice of the value of five marks,
of very wonderful workmanship.  In the same year died Pope
Stephen; and Benedict was appointed pope.  He sent hither the
pall to Bishop Stigand; who as archbishop consecrated Egelric a
monk at Christ church, Bishop of Sussex; and Abbot Siward Bishop
of Rochester.

((A.D. 1058.  This year died Pope Stephen, and Benedict was
consecrated pope: the same sent hither to land a pall to
Archbishop Stigand.  And in this year died Heca, Bishop of
Sussex; and Archbishop Stigand ordained Algeric, a monk at
Christchurch, Bishop of Sussex, and Abbot Siward Bishop of
Rochester.))

A.D. 1059.  This year was Nicholas chosen pope, who had been
Bishop of Florence; and Benedict was expelled, who was pope
before.  This year also was consecrated the steeple (84) at
Peterborough, on the sixteenth before the calends of November.

A.D. 1060.  This year was a great earthquake on the Translation
of St. Martin, and King Henry died in France.  Kinsey, Archbishop
of York, died on the eleventh before the calends of January; and
he lies at Peterborough.  Bishop Aldred succeeded to the see, and
Walter to that of Herefordshire.  Dudoc also died, who was Bishop
of Somersetshire; and Gisa the priest was appointed in his stead.

A.D. 1061.  This year went Bishop Aldred to Rome after his pall;
which he received at the hands of Pope Nicholas.  Earl Tosty and
his wife also went to Rome; and the bishop and the earl met with
great difficulty as they returned home.  In the same year died
Bishop Godwin at St. Martin's, (85) on the seventh before the
ides of March; and in the self-same year died Wulfric, Abbot of
St. Augustine's, in the Easterweek, on the fourteenth before the
calends of May.  Pope Nicholas also died; and Alexander was
chosen pope, who was Bishop of Lucca.  When word came to the king
that the Abbot Wulfric was dead, then chose he Ethelsy, a monk of
the old minster, to succeed; who followed Archbishop Stigand, and
was consecrated abbot at Windsor on St. Augustine's mass-day.

((A.D. 1061.  In this year died Dudoc, Bishop of Somerset, and
Giso succeeded.  And in the same year died Godwin, Bishop of St.
Martin's, on the seventh before the ides of March.  And in the
self-same year died Wulfric, Abbot of St. Augustine's, within
the Easter week, on the fourteenth before the kalends of May.
When word came to the king that Abbot Wulfric was departed, then
chose he Ethelsy the monk thereto, from the Old-Minster, who then
followed Archbishop Stigand, and was consecrated abbot at
Windsor, on St. Augustine's mass-day.))

A.D. 1063.  This year went Earl Harold, after mid-winter, from
Gloucester to Rhyddlan; which belonged to Griffin: and that
habitation he burned, with his ships and all the rigging
belonging thereto; and put him to flight.  Then in the gang-days
went Harold with his ships from Bristol about Wales; where he
made a truce with the people, and they gave him hostages.  Tosty
meanwhile advanced with a land-force against them, and plundered
the land.  But in the harvest of the same year was King Griffin
slain, on the nones of August, by his own men, through the war
that he waged with Earl Harold.  He was king over all the Welsh
nation.  And his head was brought to Earl Harold; who sent it to
the king, with his ship's head, and the rigging therewith.  King
Edward committed the land to his two brothers, Blethgent and
Rigwatle; who swore oaths, and gave hostages to the king and to
the earl, that they would be faithful to him in all things, ready
to aid him everywhere by water and land, and would pay him such
tribute from the land as was paid long before to other kings.

((A.D. 1063.  This year went Harold the earl, and his brother
Tosty the earl, as well with a land-force as a shipforce, into
Wales, and they subdued the land; and the people delivered
hostages to them, and submitted; and went afterwards and slew
their King Griffin, and brought to Harold his head: and he
appointed another king thereto.))

