One valuable result has followed the recent revision of the Society's
missions, which was scarcely expected when that revision began. The
Directors already find themselves able to contemplate an extension
of our missions into new localities long crying out for aid. They
are moving in the following direction:--

For several years past the SOUTH SEA MISSION has taken up but a small
quantity of new ground. Small groups like the Ellice group, the
Lagoon Islands, and the Tuamotus, with a few hundred people, have
been instructed. But since Niue and the Loyalty group were
evangelised, nearly twenty years ago, not a single large island has
been occupied. Meanwhile the Theological Institutions have been
training native students in considerable numbers, and many are now
ready for evangelistic work. The Directors therefore are anxious to
commence such work in new localities without delay; and they have
arranged that, during her next year's voyage, the _John Williams_
shall visit the large islands of the northern New Hebrides, together
with the Kingsmill and other groups, in order to establish new
missions among the thousands of heathen which they contain. The
Directors hope that not less than thirty competent and devoted native
evangelists will go forth on this expedition. In due time English
missionaries will follow: and three of our valued brethren on the
spot have already volunteered for the service. In Eastern Polynesia
the brethren in Tahiti and the Leeward Islands will complete on
system the efforts which they have recently commenced in the Tuamotu
or Pearl Islands. For this desired extension funds have been already
provided or offered by two of the Society's warm friends.

The Mission towards CENTRAL AFRICA suggested by Mr. Moffat and Dr.
Livingstone, was zealously commenced eleven years ago. Successfully
established, notwithstanding many disasters, it has continued to
hold its ground. When their revision commenced, the Directors
proposed at once to strengthen this important mission. Several new
stations have been named by the missionaries which the Directors hope
in due time to occupy. During the last two years three new
missionaries have been added to the former staff of labourers, and
two others will join them next summer. The missionaries north of the
Orange River will then be thirteen in number, of whom nine will be
engaged in direct missionary work. This increase, required by our
duty to the tribes waiting on our instructions, is entirely dependent
upon the Society's general funds.

Many years ago the MONGOLIAN MISSION, which had been carried on by
our honoured brethren, Messrs. Swan and Stallybrass, near the
Siberian edge of the Tartar deserts and among the Buriat Mongols,
was broken up by the Russian Government, and our brethren were
withdrawn. The Directors have not forgotten that mission, nor lost
their interest in the Mongol tribes. Recent enquiries have shown that
the effort may be renewed with excellent prospects, on the China side
of Mongolia, and that the city of Peking will form a suitable base
of operations. Among their present missionary students the Directors
believe that they have found a suitable man; and he will proceed in
the spring to Peking to take up his new position. The funds necessary
at the outset have already been provided in the generous gift of Mrs.
Swan.

Generally in INDIA and CHINA the Directors have been enlarging their
operations by the completion and filling in of existing agencies.
New chapels at Tientsin; a chapel and dwelling house in Wu-chang;
two houses in Canton; a school and dwelling in Almorah; a house at
the newly-founded station of Ranee Khet; a new High School in
Benares; a medical missionary in Singrowli; an additional house in
Calcutta; additional missionaries in South India and Travancore; all
have been asked for: and the greatness of the requirements bears
testimony to the importance of the sphere and of the opportunities
which are open to the Society in these Eastern Empires. Several of
the buildings have already been provided or have been sanctioned:
others are under consideration. But any solid extension of these two
great missions must for the present be deferred.

The needs of MADAGASCAR cannot be overlooked. The call of God's
providence and grace is so clear that the Directors have not
hesitated to arrange for a decided increase of the English staff.
Five ordained missionaries will proceed to the Island early in the
coming summer; and one, if not two, medical missionaries. The
Betsileo province has long waited for help, and it is proposed to
place, if possible, four ordained missionaries and one medical man
amongst its important and populous towns. The mere sending of these
brethren will cost a sum of 1,500 pounds; their maintenance will
require 2,000 pounds a-year. The Directors however cannot hesitate
to offer this aid to the churches and people among whom the Spirit
of God is so powerfully at work: and they do it in the faith that
the Lord to whose call they listen will prompt his people to provide
the means by which the brethren shall be sustained. They have had
great difficulty in finding suitable medical missionaries, and they
ask their friends to make it a matter of earnest prayer that the
Spirit of God will touch the hearts of the right men to offer their
service to His cause.

The Directors adopt these moderate measures for the extension of the
Society's usefulness in hope. From every quarter they continue to
receive gratifying proofs of the increased interest taken in their
work. The attendance at the autumn gatherings of country auxiliaries
has been large, and the spirit that has been displayed was generous
and earnest. At Birmingham and Bristol; at Hastings and Halifax; at
York and Leeds this spirit was specially manifest: the Bristol
meetings, always warm and earnest, were this year enthusiastic. And
everywhere the missionary brethren testify to the kindly manner in
which they are received and heard.

God is giving us the means of usefulness. He is also bringing a steady
supply of suitable men. But the fields are "white unto the harvest,"
and we must pray the Lord of the harvest to send more labourers to
reap in his name. To extend our work larger means are required; and
the friends of the Society will see that all additions to the present
income will be available for the extension so desirable. Never were
the exhortation and prediction more applicable: "Enlarge the place
of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine
habitations; SPARE NOT, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy
stakes." "And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their
offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them,
THAT THEY ARE THE SEED WHICH THE LORD HATH BLESSED."

BLOMFIELD STREET, FINSBURY.
_November, 1869_.

YATES AND ALEXANDER, PRINTERS, SYMONDS INN, CHANCERY LANE.