i agree with you, that it would be too troublesome to send me
the things now the quarantine exists, except the gun-barrels
for Lord Conway, the length of which I know nothing about,
being, as you conceive, no sportsman.  I must send you, with
the Life of Theodore, a vast pamphlet (859) in defence of' the
new administration, which makes the greatest noise.  It is
written, as supposed, by Dr. Pearse,(860) of St. Martin's,
whom Lord Bath lately made a dean; the matter furnished by
him.  There is a good deal of useful ]Knowledge of the famous
change to be found in it, and much more impudence.  Some parts
are extremely fine; in particular, the answer to the
Hanoverian pamphlets, where he has collected the flower of all
that was said in defence of that measure.(861)  Had you those
pamphlets? I will make up a parcel: tell me what other books
you would have: I will send you nothing else, for if I give
you the least bauble, it puts you to infinite expense, which I
can't forgive, and indeed will never bear again: you would
ruin yourself, and there is nothing I wish so much as the
contrary.

Here is a good Ode, written on the supposition of that new
book being Lord Bath's; I believe by the same hand as those
charming ones which I sent you last year: the author is not
yet known.(862)

The Duke of Argyle is dead-a death of how little moment, and
of how much it would have been a year or two ago.(863)  It is
provoking, if one must die, that one can't even die a propos!

How does your friend Dr. Cocchi?  You never mention him: do
only knaves and fools deserve to be spoken of? Adieu!

(858) The Princess of Campoflorido.

(859) Called " Faction Detected."

(860) Mr. Pearse, afterwards Bishop of Bangor.  He was not the
author, but Lord Perceval, afterwards Earl of Egmont.

(861) Sir John Hawkins says, that Osborne the bookseller, held
out to Dr. Johnson a strong temptation to answer this
pamphlet; which he refused, being convinced that the charge
contained in it was unanswerable.-E.

(862) The Ode by Sir Charles Hanbury Williams, beginning,
"Your sheets I've perused."-D.

(863) "Leaving no male issue, Argyle was succeeded in his
titles and estates by his brother, and of late his bitter
enemy, the Earl of Islay.  With all his faults and follies,
Argyle was still brave, eloquent, and accomplished, a skilful
officer, and a princely nobleman."-lord Mahon, vol. iii. p.
271.


347 letter 122
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Oct. 12, 1743.

They had sent your letter of Sept. 24th to Houghton the very
night I came to town.  I did not receive it back till
yesterday, and soon after another, with Mr. Chute's inclosed,
for which I will thank him presently.  But, my dear child, I
can, like you, think Of nothing but your bitter father's
letter.--! and that I should have contributed to it! how I
detest myself!(864)  My dearest Sir, you know all I ever said
to him:(865) indeed, I never do see him, and I assure you that
I would worship him as the Indians do the Devil, for fear-he
should hurt you: tempt you I find he will not.  He is so
avaricious, that I believe,
if you asked for a fish, he would think it even extravagance
to give you a stone: in these bad times, stones may come to be
dear, and if he loses his place and his lawsuit, who knows but
he may be reduced to turn paviour? Oh! the brute! and how
shocking, that, for your sake, one can't literally wish to see
him want bread! But how can you feel the least tenderness,
when the wretch talks of his bad health, and of not denying
himself comforts! It is weakness in you: whose health is
worse, yours or his? or when did he ever deny himself a
comfort to please any mortal? My dear child, what is it
possible to do for you? is there any thing in my power? What
would I not do for you? and, indeed, what ought I not, if I
have done you any disservice?  I don't think there is any
danger of your father's losing his place,(866) for whoever
succeeds Mr. Pelham is likely to be a friend
to this house, and would not turn out one so connected with
it.

I should be very glad to show my lord an account of those
statues you mention: they are much wanted in his hall, where,
except the Laocoon, he has nothing but busts.  For Gaburri's
drawings, I am extremely pleased with what you propose to me.
I should be well content with two of each master.  I can't
well fix any price; but would not the rate of a sequin apiece
be sufficient? to be sure he never gave any thing like that:
when one buys the quantity you mention to me, I can't but
think that full enough, one 'with another.  At
least, if I bought so many as two hundred, I would not venture
to go beyond that.

I am not at all easy from what you tell me of the Spaniards. I
have now no hopes but in the winter, and what it may produce.
I fear ours will be most ugly-the disgusts about Hanover swarm
and increase every day.  The King and Duke have left the army,
which is marching to winter-quarters in Flanders, He will not
be here by his birthday, but it will be kept when he comes.
The parliament meets the 22d of November.  All is distraction!
no union in the Court: no certainty about the House of
Commons: Lord Carteret making no friends, the King making
enemies: Mr. Pelham in vain courting Pitt, etc. Pultney
unresolved.  How will it end?  No joy but in the Jacobites.  I
know nothing more, so turn to Mr. Chute.

My dear Sir, how I am obliged to you for your poem! Patapan is
so vain with it, that he will read nothing else; I only
offered him a Martial to compare it with the original, and the
little coxcomb threw it into the fire, and told me, "He had
never heard of a lapdog's reading Latin; that it was very well
for house-dos and pointers that live in the country, and have
several hours upon their hands: for my part," said he,

"I am so nice, who ever saw
A Latin book on my sofa?
You'll find as soon a primer there
Or recipes for pastry ware.
Why do ye think I ever read
But Crebillon or Calpren`ede?
This very thing of Mr. Chute's
Scarce with my taste and fancy suits,
oh! had it but in French been writ,
'Twere the genteelest, sweetest bit!
One hates a vulgar English poet:
I vow t' ye, I should blush to show it
To women de ma connoissance,
Did not that agr`eable stance.
Cher double entendre! furnish means
Of making sweet Patapanins!"(867)

My dear Sir, your translation shall stand foremost in the
Patapaniana: I hope in time to have poems upon him, and
sayings of his own, enough to make a notable book.  En
attendant, I have sent you some pamphlets to amuse your
solitude; for, do you see, tramontane as I am, and as much as
I love Florence, and hate the country, while we make such a
figure in the world, or at least such a noise in it, one must
consider you other Florentines as country gentlemen.  Tell our
dear Miny that when he unfolds the enchanted carpet, which his
brother the wise Galfridus sends him, he will find all the
kingdoms of the earth portrayed in it.  In short, as much
history as was described on the ever-memorable and wonderful
piece of silk which the puissant White Cat(868) inclosed in a
nutshell, and presented to her paramour Prince.  In short, in
this carpet, which (filberts being out of season) I was
reduced to pack up in a walnut, he will find the following
immense library of political lore: Magazines for October,
November, December; with an Appendix for the year 1741; all
the Magazines for 1742, bound in one volume; and nine
Magazines for 17'43.  The Life of King Theodore, a certain
fairy monarch; with the Adventures of this Prince and the fair
Republic of Genoa.  The miscellaneous thoughts of the fairy
Hervey.  'The Question Stated.  Case of the Hanover Troops; and
the Vindication of the Case.  Faction Detected.  Congratulatory
Letter to Lord Bath.  The Mysterious Congress; and @our Old
England Journals.  Tell Mr. Mann, or Mr. Mann tell himself, that
I would send him nothing but this enchanted carpet, which he
can't pretend to return.  I will accept nothing under
enchantment.  Adieu all ! Continue to love the two Patapans.

(864) Sir Horace Mann in a letter to Walpole, dated Sept.
24th, 1743, gives an account of his father's refusal to give
him any money; and then quotes the following passage from
his father's letter-"He tells me he has been baited by you and
your uncle on my account, which was very disagreeable, and
believes he may charge it to me."-D.

(865) See ant`e, p.325. (letter 108)

 (866) Mr. Robert Mann, father of Sir Horace Mann, had a place
in Chelsea College, under the Paymaster of the Forces.

(867) Mr. Chute had sent Mr. Walpole the following imitation
of an epigram of Martial:

"Issa est passere nequior Catulli,
Issa est pUrior osculo columbae."
Martial, Lib. i, Ep. 110.

"Pata is frolicksome and smart,
As Geoffry once was-(Oh my heart!)
He's purer than a turtle's kiss,
And gentler than a little miss;
A jewel for a lady's ear,
And Mr. Walpole's pretty dear.
He laughs and cries with mirth or spleen;
He does not speak, but thinks, 'tis plain.
One knows his little Guai's as well
As if he'd little words to tell.
Coil'd in a heap, a plumy wreathe,
He sleeps, you hardly hear him breathe.
Then he's so nice, who ever saw
A drop that sullied his sofa?
His bended leg!-what's this but sense?-
Points out his little exigence.
He looks and points, and whisks about,
And says, pray, dear Sir, let me out.
Where shall we find a little wife,
To be the comfort of his life,
To frisk and skip, and furnish means
Of making sweet Patapanins?
England, alas! can boast no she,
Fit only for his cicisbee.
Must greedy Fate then have him all?-
No; Wootton to our aid we'll call-
The immortality's the same,
Built on a shadow, or a name.
He shall have one by Wootton's means,
The other Wootton for his pains."

(868) See the story of the White Cat in the fairy tales.


349 Letter 123
To Sir Horace Mann.
London, Nov. 17, 1743.

I would not write on Monday till I could tell you the King was
come.  He arrived at St. James's between five and six on
Tuesday.  We were in great fears of his coming through the
city, after the treason that has been publishing for these two
months; but it is incredible how well his reception was beyond
what it had ever been before: in short, you would have thought
it had not been a week after the victory at Dettingen.  They
almost carried him into -the palace on their shoulders; and at
night the whole town was illuminated and bonfired.  He looks
much better than he has for these five years, and is in great
spirits.  The Duke limps a little.  The King's reception of
the Prince, who was come to St. James's to wait for him, and
who met him on the stairs with his two sisters and the privy
councillors, was not so gracious-pas un mot-though the
Princess was brought to bed the day before, and Prince George
is ill of the small-pox.  It is very Unpopular!  You will
possibly, by next week, hear great things: hitherto, all is
silence, expectation, struggle, and ignorance.  The birthday
is kept on Tuesday, when the parliament was to have met; but
that can't be yet.

Lord Holderness has brought home a Dutch bride:(869) I have
not seen her.  The Duke of Richmond had a letter yesterday
from Lady Albemarle,(870) at Altona.  She says the Prince of
Denmark is not so tall as his bride, but. far from a bad
figure: he is thin, and not ugly, except having too wide a
mouth.  When she returns, as I know her particularly, I will
tell you more; for the present, I think I have very handsomely
despatched the chapter of royalties.  My lord comes to town
the day after to-morrow.

The opera is begun, but is not so well as last year.  The Rosa
Maricini, who is second woman, and whom I suppose you have
heard, is now old.  In the room of Amorevoli, they have got a
dreadful bass, who, the Duke of Montagu says he believes, was
organist at Aschaffenburgh.

DO you remember a tall Mr. Vernon,(871) who travelled with Mr.
Cotton?  He is going to be married to a sister of Lord
Strafford.

I have exhausted my news, and you shall excuse my being short
to-day.  For the future, I shall overflow with preferments,
alterations, and parliaments.

Your brother brought me yesterday two of yours together, of
Oct. 22 and 27, and I find you still overwhelmed with
Richcourt's folly and the Admiral's explanatory ignorance.  It
is unpleasant to have old Pucci (872) added to your
embarrassments.

Chevalier Ossorio (873) was with me the other morning, and we
were talking over the Hanoverians, as every body does.  I
complimented him very sincerely on his master's great bravery
and success: he answered very modestly and sensibly, that he
was glad amidst all the clamours, that there had been no cavil
to be found with the subsidy paid to his King.  Prince
Lobkowitz makes a great figure, and has all my wishes and
blessings for having put Tuscany out of the question.

There is no end of my giving you trouble with packing me up
cases: I shall pay the money to your brother.  Adieu! Embrace
the Chutes, who are heavenly good to you, and must have been
of great use in all your illness and disputes.

(869) Her name was Mademoiselle Doublette, and she is called
in the Peerages "the niece of M. Van Haaren, of the Province
of Holland."-D.

(870) Lady Anne Lennox, sister of the Duke of Richmond, and
wife of William Anne van Keppel, Earl of Albemarle: she had
been lady of the bedchamber to the Queen; and this year
conducted Princess Louisa to Altona, to be married to the
Prince Royal of Denmark.

(871) Henry Vernon, Esq. a nephew of Admiral Vernon, married
to Lady Henrietta Wentworth, daughter of Thomas, first Earl of
Strafford, of the second creation.-D.

(872) Signor Pucci was resident from Tuscany at the Court of
England.

(873) Chevalier Ossorio was several years minister in England
from the King of Sardinia, to whom he afterwards became first
minister.


 351 Letter 124
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Nov. 30, 1743.

I have had two letters from you since I wrote myself This I
begin against to-morrow, for I should have little time to
write.  The parliament opens, and we are threatened with a
tight Opposition, though it must be vain, if the numbers turns
out as they are calculated; three hundred for the Court, two
hundred and five opponents; that is, in town; for, you know,
the whole amounts to five hundred and fifty-eight.  The
division of the ministry has been more violent than between
parties; though now, they tell you, it is all adjusted.  The
Secretary,(874) since his return, has carried all with a high
hand, and treated the rest as ciphers; but he has been so
beaten in the cabinet council, that in appearance he submits,
though the favour is most evidently with him.  All the old
ministers have flown hither as zealously as in former days;
and of the three lev`ees (875) in this street, the greatest is
in this house, as my Lord Carteret told them the other day; "I
know you all go to Lord Orford - he has more company than any
of us-- do you think I can't go to him too?" He is never
sober; his rants are amazing; so are his parts and spirits.
He has now made up with the Pelhams, though after naming to
two vacancies in the Admiralty without their knowledge; Sir
Charles Hardy and Mr. Philipson.  The other alterations are at
last fixed.  Winnington is to be paymaster; Sandys, cofferer,
on resigning the exchequer to Mr. Pelham; Sir John Rushout,
treasurer of the navy; and Harry Fox, lord of the treasury.
Mr. Compton,(876) and Gybbons remain at that board.  Wat.
Plumber, a known man, said, the other day, "Zounds! Mr.
Pultney took those old dishclouts to wipe out the 'treasury,
and now they are going to lace them and lay them up!" It is a
most just idea: to be sure, Sandys and Rushout, and their
fellows, are dishclouts, if dishclouts there are in the world:
and now to lace them!

The Duke of Marlborough has resigned every thing, to reinstate
himself in the old duchess's will.  She said the other day,
"It is very natural: he listed as soldiers do when they are
drunk, and repented when he was sober." So much for news: now
for your letters.

All joy to Mr. Whithed on the increase of his family! and joy
to you; for now he is established in so comfortable a way, I
trust you will not lose him soon-and la Dame s'appelle?

If my Lady Walpole has a mind once in her life to speak truth,
or to foretell,-the latter of which has as seldom any thing to
do with truth as her ladyship has,-why she may now about the
Tesi's dog, for I shall certainly forget what it would be in
vain to remember.  My dear Sir, how should one convey a dog to
Florence! There are no travelling Princes of Saxe Gotha or
Modena here at present, who would carry a little dog in a
nutshell.  The poor Maltese cats, to the tune of how many!
never arrived here; and how should one little dog ever find
its way to Florence! But tell me, and, if it is possible, I
will send it.  Was it to be a greyhound, or of King Charles's
breed?  It was to have been the latter; but I think you told
me that she rather had a mind to the other sort, which, by the
way, I don't think I could get for her.

Thursday, eight o'clock at night.

I am just come from the House, and dined.  Mr. Coke(877) moved
the address, seconded by Mr. Yorke, the lord chancellor's
son.(878)  The Opposition divided 149 against 278; which gives
a better prospect of carrying on the winter easily.  In the
lords' house there was no division.  Mr. Pitt called Lord
Carteret the execrable author of our measures, and sole
minister.(879)  Mr. Winnington replied, that he did not know
of any sole minister; but if my Lord Carteret was so, the
gentlemen of the other side had contributed more to make him
so than he had.

I am much pleased with the prospect you show me of the
Correggio.  My lord is so satisfied with the Dominichin, that
he will go as far as a thousand pounds for the Correggio.  Do
you really think we shall get it, and for that price?

You talk of the new couple, and of giving the sposa a
mantilla: What new couple! you don't say.  I suppose, some
Suares, by the raffle.  Adieu!

(874) Lord Carteret.

(875) Lord Carteret's, Mr. Pelham's, and Lord Orford's.

(876) The Hon.  George Compton, second son of George, fourth
Earl of Northampton.  He succeeded his elder brother James,
the fifth earl, in the family titles and estates in 1754, and
died in 1758.-D.

(877) The only son of Lord Lovel.-D.

(878) Philip Yorke, eldest son of Lord Hardwicke; and
afterwards the second earl of that title.-D.

(879) In Mr. Yorke's MS. parliamentary journal, the words are"an
execrable, a sole minister, who had renounced the British
nation, and seemed to have drunk of the potion described in
poetic fictions."-E.


352 Letter 125
To Sir Horace Mann.
Dec. 15, 1743.

I write in a great fright, lest this letter should come too
late.  My lord has been told by a Dr. Bragge, a virtuoso,
that, some ye(irs ago, the monks asked ten thousand pounds for
our Correggio,(880) and that there were two copies then made
of it: that afterwards, he is persuaded, the King of Portugal
bought the original; he does not know at what price.  Now, I
think it very possible that this doctor, hearing the picture
was to be come at, may have invented this Portuguese history;
but as there is a possibility, too, that it may be true, you
must take all imaginable precautions to be sure it is the very
original-a copy would do neither you nor me great honour.

We have entered upon the Hanoverian campaign.  Last Wednesday,
Waller moved in our House an address to the King, to continue
them no longer in our pay than to Christmas-day, the term for
which they were granted.  The debate lasted till half an hour
after eight at night.  Two young officers (881) told some very
trifling stories against the Hanoverians, which did not at all
add any weight to the arguments of the Opposition; but we
divided 231 to 181.  On Friday,' Lord Sandwich and Lord
Halifax, in good speeches, brought the same motion into the
Lords.  I was there, and heard Lord Chesterfield make the
finest oration I ever did hear.(882)  My father did not speak,
nor Lord Bath.  They threw out the motion by 71 to 36.  These
motions will determine the bringing on the demand for the
Hanoverians for another year in form; which was a doubtful
point, the old part of the ministry being against it, though
very contrary to my lord's advice.

Lord Gower, finding no more Tories were to be admitted,
resigned on Thursday; and Lord Cobham in the afternoon.  The
privy-seal was the next day given to Lord Cholmondeley.  Lord
Gower's resignation is one of the few points in which I am
content the prophecy in the old Jacobite ballad should be
fulfilled-"The King shall have his own again."

The changes are begun, but will not be completed till the
recess, as the preferments will occasion more re-elections
than they can spare just now in the House of Commons.  Sandys
has resigned the exchequer to Mr. Pelham; Sir John Rushout is
to be treasurer of the navy; Winnington, paymaster; Harry Fox,
lord of the treasury: Lord Edgcumbe, I believe, lord of the
treasury,(883) and Sandys, cofferer and a peer.  I am so
scandalized at this, that I will fill up my letter (having
told you all the news) with the first fruits of my
indignation.

VERSES ADDRESSED TO THE HOUSE OF LORDS
ON ITS RECEIVING A NEW PEER,

THou senseless Hall, whose injudicious space,
Like Death, confounds a various mismatched race,
Where kings and clowns, th' ambitious and the mean,
Compose th' inactive soporific scene,

Unfold thy doors!-and a promotion see
That must amaze even prostituted thee!
Shall not thy sons, incurious though they are,
Raise their dull lids, and meditate a stare?
Thy sons, who sleep in monumental state,
To show the spot where their great fathers sate.
Ambition first, and specious warlike worth,
Call'd our old peers and brave patricians forth;
And subject provinces produced to fame
Their lords with scarce a less than regal name.
Then blinded monarchs, flattery's fondled race,
Their favourite minions stamp'd with titled grace,
And bade the tools of power succeed to Virtue's place,
Hence Spensers, Gavestons, by crimes grown great,
Vaulted into degraded Honour's seat:
Hence dainty Villiers sits in high debate,
Where manly Beauchamps, Talbots, Cecils sate
Hence Wentworth,(884) perjured patriot, burst each tie,
Profaned each oath, and gave his life the lie:
Renounced whate'er he sacred held and dear,
Renounced his country's cause, and sank into a Peer.
Some have bought ermine, venal Honour's veil,
When set by bankrupt Majesty to sale
Or drew Nobility's coarse ductile thread
>From some distinguished harlot's titled bed.
Not thus ennobled Samuel!-no worth
from his mud the sluggish reptile forth;
No parts to flatter, and no grace to please,
With scarce an insect's impotence to tease,
He struts a Peer-though proved too dull to stay,
Whence (885) even poor Gybbons is not brush'd away.

Adieu! I am just going to Leicester House, where the Princess
sees company to-day and to-morrow, from seven to nine, on her
lying-in.  I mention this per amor del Signor Marchese Cosimo
Riccardi.(886)

(880) One of the most celebrated pictures of Correggio, with
the Madonna and Child, saints, and angels, in a convent at
Parma.

(881) Captain Ross and Lord Charles Hay.-E.

(882) "Lord Chesterfield's performance," says Mr. Yorke, "was
much cried up; but few of his admirers could distinguish the
faults of his eloquence from its beauties." MS.  Part.
Journal.-E.

(
883 This did not happen.

(884) Earl of Strafford; but it alludes to Lord Bath.

(885) The Treasury.

(886) A gossiping old Florentine nobleman, whose whole
employment was to inform himself of the state of marriages,
pregnancies, lyings-in, and such like histories.


354 Letter 126
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Dec. 26, 1743.

I shall complain of        inflammations in my eyes till you
think it is                an excuse for not writing; but your
brother is@My Witness that I have been shut up in a dark room
for this week.  I got frequent colds, which fall upon my eyes;
and then I have bottles of sovereign eye- waters from all my
acquaintance; but as they are Only accidental colds, I never
use any thing but sage, which braces my eye-fibres again in a
few days.  I have had two letters since my last to you; One
Complaining of my silence, and the other acknowledging one
from me after a week's intermission: indeed, I never have been
so long without writing to you - I do sometimes miss two weeks
on any great dearth of news, which is all I have to fill a
letter; for living as I do among people, whom, from your long
absence, you cannot know, should  talk Hebrew to mention them
to you.  Those, that from eminent birth, folly, or parts, are
to be found in the chronicles of the times, I tell you of,
whenever necessity or the King puts them into new lights.  The
latter, for I cannot think the former had any hand in it, has
made
                    Sandys, as I told you, a lord and
cofferer! Lord Middlesex is one of the new treasury, not
ambassador as you heard.  So the Opera-house and White's have
contributed a commissioner and a secretary to the
                    treasury,(887) as their quota to the
government.  It is a period to make a figure in history.

There is a recess of both Houses for a fortnight; and we are
to meet again, with all the quotations and flowers that the
young orators can collect-,ind forcibly apply to the
Hanoverians; with all the malice which the disappointed Old
have hoarded against Carteret, and with all the impudence his
defenders can sell him - and when all that is
                    vented-what then?-why then, things will
just be where they were.

General Wade (888) is made field-marshal, and is to have
command of the army, as it is      supposed, on the King's not
going abroad; but that is not declared .   The French
preparations go on with much more vigour than ours; they not
having a House of Commons to combat all the winter; a campaign
that necessarily engages all the attention of ministers, who
have no great variety of apartments in their understandings.

I have paid your brother the bill I received from you, and
give you a thousand thanks for all the trouble you have had;
most particularly from the plague of hams,(889) from which you
have saved me.  Heavens!  how blank"I should have looked at
unpacking a great case of bacon and wine!  My dear child, be
my friend, and preserve me from heroic presents.  I cannot
possibly at this distance begin a new courtship of regalia;
for I suppose all those hams were to be converted into watches
and toys.  Now it would suit Sir Paul Methuen very well, who
is a knight-errant at seventy-three, to carry on an amour
between a Mrs. Chenevix's(890) shop and a noble collar in
Florence; but alas! I am neither old enough nor young enough
to be gallant, and should ill become the writing of heroic
epistles to a fair mistress in Italy-no, no: "ne sono uscito
con onore, mi pare, e non
voglio riprendere quel impegno pi`u"  You see how rustic I am
grown again!

I knew your new brother-in-law(891) at school, but have not
seen him since.  But your sister was in love, and must
consequently be happy to have him.  Yet I own, I cannot much
felicitate any body that marries for love.  It is bad enough
to marry; but to marry where one loves, ten times worse.
it is so charming at first, that the decay of inclination
renders it infinitely more disagreeable afterwards.  Your
sister has a thousand merits; but they don't count: but then
she has good sense enough to  make her happy, if her merit cannot
make him so.

Adieu! I rejoice for your sake that Madame Royale' is
recovered, as I saw in the papers.

(887) John JefFries.

(888)General George Wade, afterwards commander of the forces
in Scotland.  He died in 1748.  A fine monument, by Roubillac,
was erected to his memory in Westminster
                    Abbey.-E.

(889) Madame Grifoni was going to send Mr. W. a Present of
hams and Florence wine.

(890) The proprietress of a celebrated toy-shop.-D.

(891) Mr. Foote.

(892) The Duchess of Lorrain,   mother of the Great Duke: her
 death would have occasioned a long mourning  at Florence.
[Elizabeth of Orleans, only daughter of Philip, Duke of
Orleans
(Monsieur), by his second wife, the Princess Palatine.] -D.


To Sir Horace Mann.

Dear Sir,
I have been much desired by a very particular friend, to
recommend to you Sir William Maynard,(893) who is going to
Florence.  You will oblige me extremely by any civilities you
show him while he stays there; in particular, by introducing
him to the Prince and Princess de Craon, Madame Suares, and
the rest of my acquaintance there, who, I dare say, will
continue their goodness to me, by receiving him with the same
politeness that they received me.  I am, etc.

(893) Sir William Maynard, the fourth baronet of the family,
and a younger branch of the Lords Maynard.  His son, Sir
Charles Maynard, became Viscount Maynard in 1775, upon the
death of his cousin Charles, the first viscount, who had been
so created, with special remainder to him.-D.


356 Letter 127
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Jan. 24, 1744.

Don't think me guilty of forgetting you a moment, though I
have missed two or three posts.  If you knew the incessant
hurry and fatigue in which I live, and how few 'moments I have
to myself, you would not suspect Me.  You know, I am naturally
indolent, and without application to any kind of business; yet
it is- impossible, in this country, to live in the world, and
be in parliament, and not find oneself every day more hooked
into politics and company, especially inhabiting a house that
is again become the centre of affairs.  My lord becomes the
last resource, to which they are all forced to apply.  One
part of the ministry, you may be sure, do; and for the other,
they affect to give themselves the honour of it too.

