On the opposite side sat a small, well-formed, and animated person, who
was talking with singular vivacity of look and gesture, to one of
extremely placid and even formal appearance. The first was the gay,
gallant, and patriotic founder of the society, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the
other was the celebrated and clever Doctor Drennan, a skilful physician,
and an elegant writer, who might have passed in appearance, for the
demure minister of some remote village-congregation of the Scotch kirk.

A tail, elegant, and sentimental looking person sat near to them, in an
attitude of interested attention, listening to the speaker, to whom, it
seemed, he was about to reply. It was Thomas Addas Emmet, the son of the
state physician of Ireland--then a young lawyer of great promise, and
now the Attorney-General of New York. The handsome and animated Dr.
Mackenna, one of the most popular writers of the day, and Oliver Bond,
the representative of the most reputable class of merchants, had grouped
forward their intelligent heads; while one who brought no personal
beauty to the cause (that letter of recommendation to all causes), James
Napper Tandy, stood waiting with a packet of letters, which he had
received in his former quality of secretary to the meeting.

While other leaders of the Union distinguished for their birth, talents,
or principles (and it is remarkable that they were all protestants),
filled up the seats near the head of the table; more mixed groups less
distinguished by the _beau sang_, which then came forth, in the fine
forms of the genuine Irish gentry of both sects, were congregated in the
obscurity of the bottom of the room--_Lady Morgan's O'Briens and
O'Flahertys._

       *       *       *       *       *

STORY OF RICHARD PLANTAGENET, SON OF RICHARD III.

It was on this awful night (the night preceding the battle of Bosworth
Field), according to a letter which I have read from Dr. Thomas Brett to
Dr. William Warren, president of Trinity-hall, that the king took his
last farewell in his tent of Richard Plantagenet, his natural son, who
himself thus describes that interview:--"I was boarded with a Latin
schoolmaster, without knowing who my parents were, till I was fifteen or
sixteen years old; only a gentleman, who acquainted me he was no
relative of mine, came once a quarter and paid for my board, and took
care to see that I wanted for nothing. One day this gentleman took me
and carried me to a great fine house, where I passed through several
stately rooms, in one of which he left me, bidding me stay there. Then a
man richly dressed, with a star and garter, came to me, asked me some
questions, talked kindly to me, and gave me some money. Then the
fore-mentioned gentleman returned, and conducted me back to my school.

"Some time after, the same gentleman came to me again with a horse and
proper accoutrements, and told me I must take a journey with him into
the country. We went into Leicestershire, and came to Bosworth Field,
and I was carried to king Richard's tent. The king embraced me, and told
me I was his son. 'But, child,' said he, 'to-morrow I must fight for my
crown. And assure yourself if I lose that, I will lose my life too; but
I hope to preserve both. Do you stand on yonder hill, where you may see
the battle out of danger, and when I have gained the victory, come to
me; I will then own you to be mine, and take care of you. But if I
should be so unfortunate as to lose the battle, then shift as well as
you can, and take care to let no one know that I am your father; for no
mercy will be shown to any one so nearly related to me.' The king then
presented me with a purse of gold, and giving me a farewell embrace,
dismissed me from his tent. I followed the king's directions; and when I
saw the battle lost and the king killed, I hastened back to London, sold
my horse and fine clothes, and the better to conceal myself from all
suspicion of being son to a king, and that I might have the means to
live by my honest labour, I put myself apprentice to a bricklayer. But
having a competent skill in the Latin tongue, I was unwilling to lose
it; and having an inclination also to reading, and no delight in the
conversation of those I am obliged to work with, I generally spend all
the time I have to spare in reading by myself."

The letter says, "When Sir Thomas Moyle built Eastwell House, near
London, about the year, 1544, he observed his chief bricklayer, whenever
he left off work, retired with a book. Sir Thomas had curiosity to know
what book the man read, but was some time before he could discover it;
he still putting the book up if any one came toward him. However, at
last Sir Thomas surprised him, and snatched the book from him, and
looking into it found it to be Latin. He then examined him, and finding
he pretty well understood that language, he inquired how he came by his
learning. Hereupon the man told him, as he had beer, a good master to
him, he would venture to trust him with a secret he had never before
revealed to any one. He then related the above story. Sir Thomas said,
'You are now old, and almost past your labour; I will give you the
running of my kitchen as long as you live.' He answered, 'Sir, you have
a numerous family; I have been used to live retired, give me leave to
build a house of one room for myself in such a field, and there, with
your good leave, I will live and die.' Sir Thomas granted his request,
he built his house, and there continued to his death. Richard
Plantagenet was buried the 22nd day of December, anno ut supra ex
registro de Eastwell sub 1550. This is all the register mentions of him,
so that we cannot say whether he was buried in the church or
church-yard; nor is there now any other memorial of him except the
tradition in the family, and some little marks where his house stood.
This story my late Lord Heneage, earl of Winchelsea, told me in the year
1720." Thus lived and died, in low and poor obscurity, the only
remaining son of Richard III!

_Tale of a Modern Genius._

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART OF MOSAIC.

At Rome are many minor fine arts practised, which are wholly unknown in
England. The most remarkable of them is the _Mosaic Manufactory_,
carried on at the cost of government: and its fruits are theirs. The
workmen are constantly occupied in copying paintings for altarpieces,
though the works of the first masters are fast mouldering away on the
walls of forgotten churches. They will soon be lost forever; it is yet
possible to render them imperishable by means of Mosaic copies; and why
is it not done? The French, at Milan, set an example of this, by
copying, in mosaic, the _Last Supper_ of Leonardo da Vinci; but it was
their plan to do much for Milan, and nothing for Rome; and the
invaluable frescos of Michael Angelo, Raphael, Domenichino, and Guido,
were left to perish.

It takes about seven or eight years to finish a mosaic copy of a
painting of the ordinary historical size, two men being constantly
employed. It generally costs from eight to ten thousand crowns, but the
time and expense are of course regulated by the intricacy of the subject
and quantity of work. Raphael's _Transfiguration_, cost about 12,000
crowns, and the labour of nine years, ten men constantly working at it.
The late works, are, however, of very inferior execution.

The slab upon which the mosaic is made, is generally of Travertine, (or
Tiburtine) stones, connected together by iron cramps. Upon the surface
of this a mastic or cementing paste, is gradually spread, as the
progress of the work makes it wanted, which forms the adhesive ground,
or bed, on which the mosaic is laid. This mastic is composed of fine
lime from burnt marble, and finely powdered Travertine stone, mixed to
the consistence of a paste, with strong linseed oil. Into this paste are
stuck the _smalts_, of which the mosaic picture is formed. They are a
mixed species of opaque vitrified glass, partaking of the mixed nature
of stone and glass, and composed of a variety of minerals and materials,
coloured for the most part, with different metallic oxydes. Of these no
less than 1,700 different shades are in use; they are manufactured in
Rome in the form of long, slender rods like wires, of different degrees
of thickness, and are cut into pieces of the requisite sizes, from the
smallest pin point to an inch. When the picture is completely finished,
and the cement thoroughly dried, it is highly polished.

Mosaic, though an ancient art, is not merely a revived, but an improved
one; for the Romans only used coloured marbles, or natural stones in its
composition, which admitted of comparatively little variety; but the
invention of smalts has given it a far wider range, and made the
imitation of painting far closer. The mosaic work at Florence is totally
different to this, being merely inlaying in _pietre dure_, or natural
precious stones, of every variety, which forms beautiful, and very
costly imitations of shells, flowers, figures, &c. but bears no
similitude to painting.

Besides this government establishment at Rome, there are hundreds of
artists, or artisans, who carry on the manufactory of mosaics on a small
scale. Snuff-boxes, rings, necklaces, brooches, earrings, &c. are made
in immense quantity; and since the English flocked in such numbers to
Rome, all the streets leading to the Piazza di Spagna are lined with the
shops of these _Musaicisti_, &c.

Oriental shells are made at Rome into beautiful cameos, by the white
outer surface being cut away upon the deeper coloured internal part,
forming figures in minute bassi relievi. The subjects are chiefly taken
from ancient gems, and sometimes from sculpture and painting. The shells
used for this purpose are chiefly brought from the Levant; and these
shell cameos make remarkably beautiful ornaments. Hundreds of artists
also find support at Rome, in making casts, sulphurs, &c. from ancient
gems and medals, and in selling or fabricating antiques. Marble and
stone-cutting are also beautifully executed both at Rome and
Florence--_Abridged, (but interspersed) from "Rome in the 19th
Century."_


       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ****

Moria pur quando vuol non è bisogna mutar ni faccia ni voci per esser un
Angelo.--The words addressed by Lord Herbert of Cherbury, to the
beautiful Nun at Murano. (See his Life.)

_Translation_.

Die when you will, you need not wear At heaven's Court, a form more
fair, Than beauty here on earth has giv'n, Keep but the lovely looks we
see--The voice we hear--and you will be An angel _ready made_ for
heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CARD

_Left at the_ Queen's house _during the_ King's _illness in March_,
1801.

"Captain Blake of the Grenadiers, (George 1st.), was in the regiment of
Colonel Murray at the battle of Preston Pans, in the year 1745. He was
left among the dead in the field of action, with no less than eleven
wounds, one so capital as to carry away three inches of his skull. Has
been preserved fifty-six years to relate the event, and enabled by
gracious protection, to make his personal inquiry after his majesty."

       *       *       *       *       *

MARGARET NICHOLSON.

The following is the original, epistle of this famous lunatic to the
matron of Bedlam; No other proof is necessary of her insanity:--

