Thus equipped, I was allowed to accompany the cowboys to their work, with
the understanding that I was to keep at a safe distance from the herd.
Van Anden, a famous 'cutter out,' whatever that meant, was deputed to
have an especially watchful eye upon me. Van Anden was a surprisingly
graceful fellow, who got his six foot of stature in more places during
the day than any of the smaller men. He was evidently a cowboy because he
wanted to be one. There were many traces of a college education and a
thorough drilling in good manners in an Eastern home, which report said
could still be his if he so wished; and report also stated that he
remained a bachelor in spite of being the most popular man in the
country, because of a certain faithless siren who with gay unconcern
casts languishing glances and spends papa's dollars at Newport.

But this was no Beau Brummel day. There was work to do, and hard work,
as I soon discovered. We had ridden perhaps a mile; my teeth were
still chattering in the early morning cold (breaking ice on one's bath
water and blowing on one's fingers to enable one to lace heavy boots
may suit a cowboy: I do not pretend to like it), when we began to
notice a loud bellowing in the distance. Instantly my companions
spurred their horses and we went speeding over the Little Missoula
bottom lands, around scrub willows and under low hanging branches of
oak, one of which captured my hat, after breaking both of the hat pins,
and nearly swept me from the saddle.

On I rushed with the rest, hatless, and as in a cloud of fury. Van Anden
took a turn around that tree and was at my side again with the hat before
I realised what, he was doing. I jerked out a "thank you" between lopes,
and of course forbore to remark that a hat without pins was hollow
mockery. I dodged the next low branch so successfully that the pommel in
some miraculous way jumped up and smashed the crystal in my watch, the
same being carried in that mysterious place, the shirt waist front, where
most women carry their watches, pocket books, and love letters.

When we got into the open the terrible bellowing--a combination of
shriek, groan, and roar in varying pitch--grew louder, and I could just
discern a waving ghostly mass in the gray morning mist. I wondered if
this were the herd, but found it was only the cloud of dust in which it
was enveloped.

Four of the cowboys had already disappeared in different directions. I
heard the 'WB' boss say, "Billy, to the left flank. Van, them blamed
heifers," as he flew past them.

Van dashed forward, I gave my black mare a cut with the quirt and
followed. Van's face, as he turned around to remonstrate, was a study of
surprise, distress, and disgust, for I was undoubtedly breaking rules.

"Don't bother about me," I called as airily as possible, as I shot past
him. He had checked his horse's speed, but now there was nothing to do
but to follow me as fast as he could. I shall have to record that he
swore, as he turned sharply to the right into a group of cattle. Poor
man, it was dreadful to saddle him with a woman at such a juncture, but
I was not a woman just then. I was a green cowboy and frightened to
death, as the cattle closed around me, a heavy mass of ponderous forms,
here wedged in tightly and bellowing, some with the pain of being
crushed, some for their calves. I expected every instant to be trampled
under foot.

