"Not her," he interrupted proudly. "She's a rare good nurse herself,
and it would take more than that to turn _her_ up."

I shook my pen; he shifted his head a little and continued:--

"DEAR WIFE,--If you could see my shoulder dressed of a morning you
would laugh. They cuts out little pieces of lint like a picture puzzle
to fit the places, and I've got a regular map of Blighty all down my
arm; but that's not so bad as my back, which I cannot see and which
the wound is as long--"

I blotted the sheet and turned over, and Private Brown eyed the space
left for further cheerful communications.

"Shall I leave this for you to finish?" I suggested, thinking of
tender messages difficult to dictate. "Your fingers may be better
after tea, or perhaps to-morrow morning."

"That's all right, Miss. There's nothing more to put except my name,
if you'll just say, "Good-bye, dear wife, hoping this finds you well
as it leaves me at present."

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIR WARNING.

    "A POPULAR CONCERT WILL BE HELL IN THE PORTEOUS HALL, On
    Friday, 2nd November."--_Scotch Paper_.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURRAGH MEETING.

  Judea . . . . . . . . . . .  E.M. Quirke  1
  Elfterion . . . . . . . . . . .  M. Wing  2
  Tut Ttlddddddrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr aY
  Tut Tut . . . . . . . . . . . . J. Dines  3

    _Provincial Paper_.

  From which it is to be inferred
  The angry printer backed the third.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "WELL, UPON MY WORD! AFTER ALL THE TROUBLE I HAD TO GET
A QUARTER OF A POUND OF BUTTER, THE COOK'S SENT UP MARGARINE. I SHOULD
HATE THE MAIDS TO GO SHORT, BUT I _DO_ THINK WE OUGHT TO _SHARE_
THINGS."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ULTIMATE OUTRAGE.

  I had a favourite shirt for many moons,
  Soft, silken, soothing and of tenderest tone,
  Gossamer-light withal. The Subs., my peers,
  Envied the garment, ransacking the land
  To find a shirt its equal--all in vain.
  For, when we tired of shooting at the Hun
  And other Batteries clamoured for their share
  And we resigned positions at the front
  To dally for a space behind the line,
  To shed my war-worn vesture I was wont--
  The G.S. boots, the puttees and the pants
  That mock at cut and mar the neatest leg,
  The battle-jacket with its elbows patched
  And bands of leather, round its hard-used cuffs,
  And, worst of all, the fuggy flannel shirt,
  Rough and uncouth, that suffocates the soul;
  And in their stead I donned habiliments
  Cadets might dream of--serges with a waist,
  And breeches cut by Blank (you know the man,
  Or dare not say you don't), long lustrous boots,
  And gloves canary-hued, bright primrose ties
  Undimmed by shadows of Sir FRANCIS LLOYD--
  And, like a happy mood, I wore the shirt.
  It was a woven breeze, a melody
  Constrained by seams from melting in the air,
  A summer perfume tethered to a stud,
  The cool of evening cut to lit my form--
  And I shall wear it now no more, no more!

  There came a day we took it to be washed,
  I and my batman, after due debate.
  A little cottage stood hard by the road
  Whose one small window said, in manuscript,
  "Wasching for soldiers and for officers,"
  And there we left my shirt with anxious fears
  And fond injunctions to the Belgian dame.
  So it was washed. I marked it as I passed
  Waving svelte arms beneath the kindly sun
  As if it semaphored to its own shade
  That answered from the grass. I saw it fill
  And plunge against its bonds--methought it yearned
  To join its tameless kin, the airy clouds.
  And as I saw it so, I sang aloud,
  "To-morrow I shall wear thee! Haste, O Time!"
  Fond, futile dream! That very afternoon,
  Her washing taken in and folded up
  (My shirt, my shirt I mourn for, with the rest),
  The frugal creature locked and left her cot
  To cut a cabbage from a neighbour's field.
  Then, without warning, from the empurpled sky,
  Swift with grim dreadful purpose, swooped a shell
  (Perishing Percy was the name he bore
  Amongst, the irreverent soldiery), ah me!
  And where the cottage stood there gaped a gulf;
  The jewel and the casket vanished both.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Were there no other humble homes but that
  For the vile Hun to fire at? Did some spy,
  In bitter jealousy, betray my shirt?
  What boots it to lament? The shirt is gone.
  It was not meant for such an one as I,
  A plain rough gunner with one only pip.
  No doubt 'twas destined for some lofty soul
  Who in a deck-chair lolls, and marks the map
  And says, "Push here," while I and all my kind
  Scrabble and slaughter in the appointed slough.
  But I, presumptuous, wore it, till the gods
  Called for my laundry with a thunderbolt.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: HOW TO LOSE THE WAR AT HOME.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, October 22nd._--The fact that a couple of German raiders
contrived to slip through the North Sea patrol the other night was
made the excuse for an attack upon the Admiralty. Sir Eric Geddes came
down specially to assure the House that if it viewed things "in the
right perspective" it would realise that such isolated incidents were
unavoidable. Members generally were convinced, I think, by the sight
of the First Lord's bulldog jaw, even more than by his words, that the
Navy would not loose its grip on the enemy's throat.

If "darkness and composure" are, as we have been told, the best
antidotes to an air-raid, where would you be more likely to find
them than in a CAVE? The HOME SECRETARY'S explanation did not, of
course, satisfy "P.B."--initials now standing for "Pull Baker"--who,
in a voice of extra raucosity, caused by his _al-fresco_ oratory
in East Islington, demanded that protection should be afforded
to--ballot-boxes. But he and Mr. JOYNSON-HICKS and Mr. DILLON--whose
sudden solicitude for the inhabitants of London was gently chaffed
by Mr. CHAMBERLAIN--were deservedly trounced by Mr. BONAR LAW, who
declared that if their craven squealings were typical he should
despair of victory.

Who says that the removal of the grille has had no effect upon
politics? Exposed to the unimpeded gaze of the ladies in the Gallery
the House decided with great promptitude that the female voter should
not be called upon to state her exact age, but need only furnish a
statutory declaration that she was over thirty.

_Tuesday, October 23rd._--So far as I know, the duties of a Junior
Lord of the Treasury have never been exactly defined. Apparently
those of Mr. PRATT include the compilation of a "London Letter," to
be sent to certain favoured newspapers. In one of them he appears to
have stated that Mr. ASQUITH'S condition of health was so precarious
that there was little likelihood of his resuming an active part in
politics. It was pleasant, therefore, to see the ex-Premier in his
place again, and able to contribute to the Irish debate a speech
showing no conspicuous failure either of intellect or verbal felicity.

[Illustration: _Mr. Duke_. "HERE, I SAY--"

_Mr. Redmond_. "SURE AN' I'M SORRY, BUT THE GINTLEMAN BEHIND PUSHED
ME."]

Both Mr. REDMOND and Mr. DUKE had drawn a very gloomy picture of
present-day Ireland--the former, of course, attributing it entirely
to the ineptitudes of the "Castle," and being careful to say little
or nothing to hurt the feelings of the Sinn Feiners, while the latter
ascribed it to the rebellious speeches and actions of Mr. DE VALERA
and the other hillside orators whom for some inscrutable reason he
leaves at large.

