If you wish to get at the bottom facts, I don't mind telling you--in
confidence--that it was we Scotch-Irish who vanquished both of you--some
of us in peace--others of us in war--supplying the missing link of
adaptability--the needed ingredient of common sense--the conservative
principle of creed and action, to which this generation of Americans
owes its intellectual and moral emancipation from frivolity and
pharisaism--its rescue from the Scarlet Woman and the mailed hand--and
its crystallization into a national character and polity, ruling by
force of brains and not by force of arms.

Gentlemen--Sir--I, too, have been to Boston. Strange as the admission
may seem, it is true; and I live to tell the tale. I have been to
Boston; and when I declare that I found there many things that suggested
the Cavalier and did not suggest the Puritan, I shall not say I was
sorry. But among other things, I found there a civilization perfect in
its union of the art of living with the grace of life; an Americanism
ideal in its simple strength. Grady told us, and told us truly, of that
typical American who, in Dr. Talmage's mind's eye, was coming, but who,
in Abraham Lincoln's actuality, had already come. In some recent studies
into the career of that great man, I have encountered many startling
confirmations of this judgment; and from that rugged trunk, drawing its
sustenance from gnarled roots, interlocked with Cavalier sprays and
Puritan branches deep beneath the soil, shall spring, is springing, a
shapely tree--symmetric in all its parts--under whose sheltering boughs
this nation shall have the new birth of freedom Lincoln promised it, and
mankind the refuge which was sought by the forefathers when they fled
from oppression. Thank God, the axe, the gibbet, and the stake have had
their day. They have gone, let us hope, to keep company with the lost
arts. It has been demonstrated that great wrongs may be redressed and
great reforms be achieved without the shedding of one drop of human
blood; that vengeance does not purify, but brutalizes; and that
tolerance, which in private transactions is reckoned a virtue, becomes
in public affairs a dogma of the most far-seeing statesmanship. Else how
could this noble city have been redeemed from bondage? It was held like
a castle of the Middle Ages by robber barons, who levied tribute right
and left. Yet have the mounds and dykes of corruption been carried--from
buttress to bell-tower the walls of crime have fallen--without a shot
out of a gun, and still no fires of Smithfield to light the pathway of
the victor, no bloody assizes to vindicate the justice of the cause; nor
need of any.

So I appeal from the men in silken hose who danced to music made by
slaves--and called it freedom--from the men in bell-crowned hats, who
led Hester Prynne to her shame--and called it religion--to that
Americanism which reaches forth its arms to smite wrong with reason and
truth, secure in the power of both. I appeal from the patriarchs of New
England to the poets of New England; from Endicott to Lowell; from
Winthrop to Longfellow; from Norton to Holmes; and I appeal in the name
and by the rights of that common citizenship--of that common
origin--back both of the Puritan and the Cavalier--to which all of us
owe our being. Let the dead past, consecrated by the blood of its
martyrs, not by its savage hatreds--darkened alike by kingcraft and
priestcraft--let the dead past bury its dead. Let the present and the
future ring with the song of the singers. Blessed be the lessons they
teach, the laws they make. Blessed be the eye to see, the light to
reveal. Blessed be Tolerance, sitting ever on the right hand of God to
guide the way with loving word, as blessed be all that brings us nearer
the goal of true religion, true Republicanism and true patriotism,
distrust of watchwords and labels, shams and heroes, belief in our
country and ourselves. It was not Cotton Mather, but John Greenleaf
Whittier, who cried:

  "Dear God and Father of us all,
  Forgive our faith in cruel lies,
  Forgive the blindness that denies.

  "Cast down our idols--overturn
  Our bloody altars--make us see
  Thyself in Thy humanity!"

[Applause and cheers.]


HEMAN LINCOLN WAYLAND


THE FORCE OF IDEAS

     [Speech of Rev. Dr. Heman L. Wayland at the fourth annual dinner of
     the New England Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, December 22,
     1884. Dr. Wayland, as President of the Society, occupied the chair,
     and delivered the following address in welcoming the guests.]


FELLOW NEW ENGLANDERS--Or, in view of our habitual modesty and
self-depreciation, I ought, perhaps, rather to say, Fellow Pharisees
[laughter]--I congratulate you that we are able to show our guests a
little real New England weather--weather that recalls the sleigh-rides,
and crossing the bridges, and the singing-school. You are reminded of
the observation of the British tar, who, after a long cruise in the
Mediterranean, as he came into the eternal fog which surrounds the
"tight little island," exclaimed, "This is weather as is weather; none
of your blasted blue sky for me!" [Laughter.]

Let me also apologize to our guests for the extreme plainness and
frugality of the entertainment. They will kindly make allowance, when
they remember that this is washing-day. [Laughter.]

I am aware that the occasion is so large as to dwarf all merely personal
considerations; but I cannot omit to return you my thanks for the
unmerited kindness which has placed me in the position I occupy. I must
add that the position is at once the more honorable and the more
onerous, because I am called to follow a gentleman whose administration
of the office has been so superlatively successful.

In making this allusion to my honored predecessor, I am reminded of an
event in which we all feel a common pride. On the 25th of last June,
amid the hills which overshadow Dartmouth College, our then president
laid the corner-stone of "Rollins Chapel" for Christian worship, while
on the same day, at the same place, on the grounds traversed in earlier
years by Webster and Choate, another son of New England laid the
corner-stone of the "Wilson Library Building." Thus does intelligent
industry, large-hearted benevolence, and filial piety, plant upon the
granite hills of New England the olive-groves of Academus and the palms
of Judea. [Applause.]

But perhaps there may be here some intelligent stranger who asks me to
define an expression which is now and then heard on these occasions:
"What is this New England of which you speak so seldom and so
reluctantly? Is it a place?" Yes, it is a place; not indeed only a
place, but it is a place; and he cannot know New England who has not
traversed it from Watch Hill to Mount Washington, from Champlain to
Passamaquoddy. In no other wise can one realize how the sterile soil and
the bleak winds and the short summer have been the rugged parents of
that thrift, that industry, that economy, that regard for the small
savings, which have made New England the banker of America. As the
population grew beyond the capacity of the soil, her sons from her
myriad harbors swarmed out upon the sea, an army of occupation, and
annexed the Grand Banks, making them national banks before the days of
Secretary Chase. [Laughter.] When the limits of agriculture were
reached, they enslaved the streams, and clothed the continent. They
gathered hides from Iowa and Texas, and sold them, in the shape of
boots, in Dubuque and Galveston. Sterile New England underlaid the
imperial Northwest with mortgages, and overlaid it with insurance. I
chanced to be in Chicago two or three days after the great fire of 1871.
As I walked among the smoking ruins, if I saw a man with a cheerful air,
I knew that he was a resident of Chicago; if I saw a man with a long
face, I knew that he represented a Hartford insurance company.
[Laughter.] Really, the cheerful resignation with which the Chicago
people endured the losses of New England did honor to human nature.
[Laughter.]

Perhaps it is well that New England is not yet more sterile, for it
would have owned the whole of the country, and would have monopolized
all the wealth, as it has confessedly got a corner on all the virtues.

And while the narrow limit of the season, called by courtesy "summer,"
has enforced promptness and rapidity of action, the long winters have
given pause for reflection, have fostered the red school-house, have
engendered reading and discussion, have made her sons and her daughters
thoughtful beings.

The other day, in reading the life of a New England woman,[8] I met with
a letter written when she was seventeen years old: "I have begun reading
Dugald Stewart. How are my sources of enjoyment multiplied. By bringing
into view the various systems of philosophers concerning the origin of
our knowledge, he enlarges the mind, and extends the range of our ideas,
... while clearly distinguishing between proper objects of inquiry and
those that must forever remain inexplicable to man in the present state
of his faculties. Reasonings from induction are delightful." [Laughter.]

I think you will agree with me that only where there was a long winter,
and long winter evenings, would such a letter be written by a girl in
her teens.

The question has often been asked why there are so many poets in New
England. A traveller passing through Concord inquired, "How do all these
people support themselves?" The answer was, "They all live by writing
poems for 'The Atlantic Monthly.'" [Laughter.]

Now, any one who thinks of it must see that it is the weather which
makes all these poets, or rather the weathers, for there are so many. As
Mr. Choate said: "Cold to-day, hot to-morrow; mercury at eighty in the
morning, with wind at southeast; and in three hours more a sea-turn,
wind at east, a thick fog from the bottom of the ocean, and a fall of
forty degrees; now, so dry as to kill all the beans in New Hampshire;
then, a flood, carrying off the bridges on the Penobscot; snow in
Portsmouth in July, and the next day a man and a yoke of oxen killed by
lightning down in Rhode Island." [Laughter.]

The commonplace question: "How is the weather going to be?" gives a
boundless play to the imagination, and makes a man a poet before he
knows it. And then a poet must have grand subjects in nature. And what
does a poet want that he does not find in New England? Wooded glens,
mysterious ravines, inaccessible summits, hurrying rivers; the White
Hills, keeping up, as Starr King said, "a perpetual peak against the
sky"; the Old Man of the Mountains looking down the valley of the
Pemigewasset, and hearing from afar the Ammonoosuc as it breaks into a
hundred cataracts; Katahdin, Kearsarge, setting its back up higher than
ever since that little affair off Cherbourg; the everlasting ocean
inviting to adventure, inspiring to its own wild freedom, and making a
harbor in every front yard, so that the hardy mariner can have his smack
at his own doorstep. [Laughter.] (Need I say I mean his fishing-smack?)
What more can a poet desire?

And then life in New England, especially New England of the olden time,
has been an epic poem. It was a struggle against obstacles and enemies,
and a triumph over nature in behalf of human welfare.

What would a poet sing about, I wonder, who lived on the Kankakee Flats?
Of course, the epic poet must have a hero, and an enemy, and a war. The
great enemy in those parts is shakes; so, as Virgil began, "I sing of
arms and the man," the Kankakee poet would open:

  "I sing the glories of cinchona and the man
  Who first invented calomel."

Yes, if the Pilgrims had landed upon the far Western prairies or the
Southern savannas, they would never have made America; they would never
have won a glory beyond that of Columbus, who only discovered America,
whereas these men created it. [Applause.]

But not a place alone. New England is also a race; the race that plants
colonies and makes nations; the race that carries everywhere a free
press, a free pulpit, an open Bible, and that has almost learned to
spell and parse its own language; the race which began the battle for
civil and religious liberty in the time of Elizabeth, which fought the
good fight at Edgehill, which, beside Concord Bridge, "fired the shot
heard round the world," which made a continent secure for liberty at
Appomattox. [Applause.]

And New England is not alone a place and a race; it is as well an idea,
or a congeries of ideas, so closely joined as properly to be called but
one; and this idea is not the idea of force, but the force of ideas.

But, gentlemen, I am in danger of forgetting that a marked
characteristic of New Englanders is an unwillingness to talk, and
especially to talk about themselves. And I know that you are eager to
listen to the illustrious men whom we have the honor to gather about our
humble board this evening.


       *       *       *       *       *


CAUSES OF UNPOPULARITY

     [Speech of Rev. Dr. Heman L. Wayland at the eighty-fourth annual
     dinner of the New England Society in the City of New York, December
     23, 1889. The President, Cornelius N. Bliss, proposed the query for
     Dr. Wayland, "Why are New Englanders Unpopular?" enforcing it with
     the following quotations: "Do you question me as an honest man
     should do for my simple true judgment?" [Much Ado About Nothing,
     Act I, Sc. I], and "Merit less solid less despite has bred: the man
     that makes a character makes foes" [Edward Young]. Turning to Dr.
     Wayland, Mr. Bliss said: "Our sister, the New England Society of
     Philadelphia, to-night sends us greeting in the person of her
     honored President, whom I have the pleasure of presenting to you."
     The eloquence of Dr. Wayland was loudly applauded; and Chauncey M.
     Depew declared that he had heard one of the best speeches to which
     he had ever listened at a New England dinner.]


MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN:--That I am here this evening is as
complete a mystery to me as to you. I do not know why your Society, at
whose annual meetings orators are as the sand upon the seashore for
multitude, should call upon Philadelphia, a city in which the acme of
eloquence is attained by a Friends' Yearly Meeting, "sitting under the
canopy of silence." I can only suppose that you designed to relieve the
insufferable brilliancy of your annual festival, that you wished to
dilute the highly-flavored, richly-colored, full-bodied streams of the
Croton with the pure, limpid, colorless (or, at any rate, only
drab-colored) waters of the Schuylkill. [Laughter.]

