2. As it respecteth man, it doth first and immediately respect
our believing on him for remission of sins and eternal life. 'And
this is the will of him [the Father] which sent me [saith Christ]
that every one that seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have
everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day' (John
6:40). This then is the will of God; that men do believe in Jesus
Christ.

Against, when the Jews asked Jesus Christ what they should do,
that they might work the works of God, he did not send them first
to the moral precept, or to its first principles in the hearts of
men; by obeying that, to fit themselves for faith; but immediately
he tells them, 'This is the work of God, that ye believe on him
whom he hath sent' (John 6:29). This is the work of God; that
is, 'This is his commandment, That we should believe on the name
of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us
commandment' (1 John 3:23). If any man will do his will, he shall
know of the doctrine, that is, as I have said, he shall feel, and
have the authority of this faith in his heart, both to give peace
and joy in his heart, and assurance, and the sealing of his soul
to glory. For all these things come in upon believing first in
Christ.

1. 'By faith we have peace with God' (Rom 5:1).

2. 'We have joy and peace through believing' (Rom 15:13).

3. 'Assurance comes also through believing' (John 6:69; Heb 10:22).

4. Yea, and the sealings up to eternal life; 'In whom also after
that ye believed, ye were sealed with that holy spirit of promise'
(Eph 1:13).

5. Sanctification, and a right obedient temper, is not to be found
in men before, but after they have believed; 'He purified their
hearts by faith' (Acts 15:9). Yea, heaven and eternal happiness
is promised to them who are sanctified by faith which is in Christ
(26:18).

This first text, therefore, hath been by you abused, in that you
have ungodlily strained it, but in vain, to make it warrant your
heathenish preparations to faith.

The second scripture; 'He that is of God heareth God's words; ye
therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God' (John 8:47).

Ans. This scripture supposeth men must first be of God, before they
can hear God's word; before they can hear it with the hearing of
faith; and therefore nothing respecteth those that before they
have faith, live in the law of works; and least of all, those that
become obedient thereto, that thereby they may obtain everlasting
life. For these are not of God, not of him in a New Testament
sense; not sons, because they are born of men, of the will of men,
of the law, and according to the wisdom of flesh and blood (John
1:12,13).

Your third scripture is, 'And as many as were ordained to eternal
life believed' (Acts 13:48). Which text you thus expound: 'That as
many of the Gentiles as were disposed, or in a ready preparedness
for eternal life, believed; that is, those which were proselytes
of the gate, who were admitted by the Jews to the hope of eternal
life, and to have their portion in the age to come, without
submitting to their whole law, or any more than owning the God of
Israel, and observing the seven precepts of Noah' (p. 269)[36].

Ans. 1. That obedience to the moral law is not a preparative to
faith, or an excellent and necessary qualification to the right
understanding of the gospel I have proved.

2. That to be a Jewish proselyte was to live in the faith of
Messias to come, is the strain of all the scriptures that have to
deal with them.

3. But that ordaining men to eternal life respects an act of the
Jews, or that the Jews did dispense with the Gentile proselytes,
in their casting off all their laws, but the seven precepts of
Noah.

4. Or that God counted this a fit, or forerunning qualification
to faith in Jesus Christ, neither stands with the word of God,
nor the zeal of that people.

5. Besides, the words presently following seem to me to insinuate
more, viz. That the Jews and religious proselytes that adhered
to Paul at his first sermon (v 43), did contradict and blaspheme
at his second (v 45), and moreover, that it was they that raised
persecution upon him, and expelled him out of their coasts (v 50).
When the Gentiles, even those that were more barbarously ignorant
at his coming, when they heard that by Christ there was offered to
them the forgiveness of sins, they believed (v 48), and glorified
the word of the Lord: The wisdom of heaven so disposing such of
their hearts, that were before by HIM, not by Jews ordained to
life. 'And as many as were ordained to eternal life, believed.'

But you come again, in p. 269 to the scripture first urged by you,
'If any man will do his will,' &c. and you tell us, that this must
also needs be implied, he shall rightly understand the doctrine
too; which word (understand) you so carry, as may best help you
in case you should meet with an adversary. As if any should thus
object, that here you have granted that the words make promise of
an understanding of the gospel; yea require in it the very first
act of the will; then you readily shift it by saying, That this is
implied only, suggesting that obedience to morals is expressed,
and therefore must first be thought on and done. But if one of
your brotherhood stop here, and make the objection; then you add,
'It is knowledge, at least, in all the necessary points thereof,
absolutely necessary and essential parts, from among which you
long since did cast out, "Coming to God by Jesus Christ."' Yea you
add, 'That by [that which you call] the design of the gospel, it
may be presumed, that whosoever considereth it, with a design of
being so, [that is, of living up to human principles, and that
desireth to be possessed again of the holiness he hath lost, for
that is it for the proof of which you have written above 300 pages]
he must needs believe the gospel to have come from God, and also
be enlightened in the true knowledge of at least the necessary
points of it,' viz. All moral duties contained therein, which are
never a one of them as such an essential of the gospel, but are
such duties as are consequential to the belief thereof.

Wherefore, although you feign it, 'this honest temper,' as you
call it, will not help you, 1. To judge of the gospel without
prejudice; nor 2. To evidence it with satisfaction; nor 3. Secure
those in whom it is from error and delusion; no man being more
brutish or heathenish, nor so void of satisfaction about it, nor
more involved in error concerning it, than yourself; being truly
what you charge upon others; 1. Grossly ignorant; 2. Too highly
opinionate; 3. Proud in affectation; 4. Liquorish; 5. A self-lover;
6. And for your blasphemy under the just judgment of God. 'If our
gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost: In whom the god
of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not,
lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image
of God, should shine into them' (2 Cor 4:3,4).

['For me to live is Christ' includes in it more than good habits
or holy frames of soul.]

I am come now to your last chapter, which tells us wherein the
essence and life of Christianity consisteth, viz. In a good state
and habit of mind, in a holy frame and temper of soul (p. 282).

Ans. 1. It consisteth in a life of faith, when I live in the belief
of this, that Christ loved me, and gave himself for me. 'The life
that I now live in the flesh [saith Paul] I live by the faith of
the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.'

2. And besides, a good state and habit of mind, or an holy frame
and temper of soul, in your notion of them, which respecteth purely
obedience to morals, from natural impulses, or dictates of our
humanity, they are rather heathenish than Christian, and being
alone, end in death rather than life. 'As many as are of the
works of the law, are under the curse,' he saith not they that
sin against it, but they that are OF the works of it, such as do
justice, righteousness, charity, goodness, mercy, patience, and
all kind of moral duties, from principles human, natural, or as
men, they are under the curse, because they have sinned first, and
also are infirm and weak in their pursuit after the perfections
they desire. These follow after righteousness, but that flies
from them; wherefore they do not obtain it, because they seek it
not by faith in Christ, but as it were by the works; the righteous,
good, and holy works of the law (Rom 9:30,32). But you add,

'It is such a habit of mind, such a frame and temper of soul, as
esteemeth God as the chiefest good, and preferreth him and his
Son Jesus Christ before all the world, and that prizeth above all
things an interest in the divine perfections,' &c. (p. 282).

Ans. 1. God must needs be esteemed the chiefest good, by all that
have but, and are ruled by, the light of nature, because they see
him by his works to be almighty, merciful, and eternal (Rom 1:20).
But this may be where the knowledge of the man, the Mediator is
not; therefore this, in this and in your sense, cannot be of the
essence of Christianity, for that it is common to all the world.
That estimation of God which is common to natural men, cannot be
of the essence of Christianity, because they want that knowledge
of him that comes by Jesus Christ, and so are not capable to esteem
of him under a Christian consideration.

But you say, 'it is that good habit and temper of mind that
preferreth God, and his Son Jesus Christ, before all the world.'

Ans. He that esteemeth God above all, must needs, at least in his
judgment, so prefer him; but whereas you add, and his Son Jesus
Christ, you put in them words but as a cloak, for yourself have
not preferred his Son Jesus Christ, no, not before a moral law, no
not before your obedience to it, although but by human principles;
yea, you have accounted the command of God, by which we are
enjoined by him to come to God, a thing in itself but like levitical
ceremonies, or as Baptism and the Lord's Supper; a thing in itself
indifferent, and absolutely considered neither good nor evil (p.
7,8,9).

You add; 'It is such a temper as prizeth above all things, an
interest in the divine perfections; such as justice and righteousness,
universal charity, goodness, mercy, patience, and all kinds of
purity' (p. 282).

Ans. Seeing by these expressions you only intend moral virtues,
and those that are inherent in you, and originally operations of
humanity, it is evident that you have but impiously and idolatrously
attributed to your own goodness so high and blessed a title. For
whatsoever is in your nature, and originally the dictates thereof,
and whatsoever proficiency you make therein by human principles,
and helps of natural endowments; these things are but of yourself,
your own justice, your own righteousness, your own charity,
goodness, mercy, patience, kindness, &c. Now to call these the
divine perfections, when they are only your own human virtues,
bespeaks you, I say, fond, impious, and idolatrous, and shews you,
in the midst of all your pretended design to glorify God, such an
one who have set up your own goodness with him, yea and given it
the title of his blessed grace and favour.

That scripture you mention (Rom 14:17), although by the word
righteousness there, is intended obedience to the moral law, yet
to it by persons already justified by Christ's righteousness; hence
they are said to do it in the joy and peace of the Holy Ghost,
or by the joy and peace which they had by faith in Christ's
righteousness, as revealed to them by the Spirit of God. Hence
again, they are said in IT to serve Christ, or to receive the law
at his hand, which he giveth to them to walk after, having first
justified them from the curse thereof by his blood.

2. The law was given twice on Sinai, the last time, with a proclamation
of mercy going before, and he that receiveth it thus, receiveth
it after a gospel manner. For they as justified persons are dead
to the law as a covenant of works by the body of Christ, that they
might live to another, even to him that is raised from the dead
(Rom 7; Gal 2:19). But you by this scripture intend not this
doctrine, for you make justification by Christ, come after, not
before obedience to the law; yea, you make obedience thereto,
the essential, and coming to God by Christ, but a thing of a more
remote nature, from true and substantial gospel-righteousness.

In p. 283, you speak again of the old principle, and thus you
comment, 'A principle of holiness that respecteth duty, as with
respect to the nature of the command, so not with respect to the
duty as occasioned by certain external inducements and motives,
but from a good temper and disposition of soul.'

Ans. This I say, still respecting your old principle of humanity,
and the purity of your nature, the most amounts but to this: Your
principle is confined to a liberty of will and affections, with
respect to doing of the law of works, which many have professed
to have, and do before you, and yet have come short of the glory
of God. For as I told you before, I tell you now again, that the
gospel-principles are the Holy Ghost and faith, which help that
soul in whom they dwell to count believing in Jesus Christ the
great and essential part of our Christianity, and our reckoning
ourselves pardoned for the sake of him: 'And thus being set free
from sin, we become the servants of God, and have our fruit unto
holiness, and the end everlasting life' (Rom 6:22).

Your description of a child of Abraham, you meaning in a New
Testament sense, is quite beside the truth. For albeit, the sons
of Abraham will live holy lives, and become obedient to the
substantial laws; yet it is not their subjection to morals, but
faith in Jesus, that giveth them the denomination of children of
Abraham. 'Know ye, therefore, that they that are of faith are the
children of faithful Abraham: They that are of faith, the same are
the children of Abraham: Yea, they that are of faith are blessed
with faithful Abraham' (Gal 3:7,9). In p. 284, you say, 'That
there is no one duty more affectionately recommended to us in the
gospel than is alms-giving.'

Ans. Yes, That there is, and that which more immediately respecteth
our justification with God, than ten thousand such commandments;
and that is faith in Christ. Alms-deeds is also a blessed command;
yet but one of the second table, such as must flow from faith going
before. Faith I mean that layeth hold on Christ's righteousness,
if it be accepted of God. For before the heart be good the action
must be naught; now the heart is good by faith, because faith, by
applying Christ's righteousness, makes over [a] whole Christ to
the soul, of whose fulness it receiveth, and grace for grace (John
1:16). Many things in this last chapter are worthy reprehension,
but because you tell us, in the last two pages thereof, is the
sum of all that need to be said, I will immediately apply myself
to what is there contained.

You say (p. 296), 'It is not possible we should not have the design
of Christianity accomplished in us, and therefore that we should
be destitute of the power of it, if we make our Saviour's most
excellent life the pattern of our lives.' By our Saviour's life,
as by a parenthesis you also express, you mean, as yourself hath in
short described it (ch 5) viz., 'The greatest freedom, affability,
courtesy, candour, ingenuity, gentleness, meekness, humility,
contempt of the world, contention, charity, tenderness, compassion,
patience, submission to the divine will, love of God, devoutest
temper of mind towards him, mighty confidence and trust in God,'
&c.

Ans. Our Saviour's life, in not only these, but all other duties
that respected morals, was not principally or first to be imitated
by us, but that the law, even in the preceptive part thereof,
might be fully and perfectly fulfilled for us. 'Christ is the end
of the law for righteousness'; the end, not only of the ceremonial
law, but the ten commandments too; for if the word righteousness,
respecteth in special them. 'Jesus increased in favour with God'
(Luke 2:52; Matt 3:17). This respecteth him as made under the law,
and his pleasing of God in that capacity. So also doth that, 'In
him I am well pleased.' Now I say, as Jesus stood in this capacity,
he dealt with the law in its greatest force and severity, as it
immediately came from God, without the advantage of a Mediator, and
stood by his perfect complying with, and fulfilling every tittle
thereof. Besides, as Jesus Christ had thus to do with the law,
he did it in order to his 'finishing transgression, and putting
an end to sin' (Dan 9:24), and so consequently as Mediator, and
undertaker for the world. For his perfect complying withal, and
fulfilling every tittle of the law, respected nothing his own
private person, that he for himself might be righteous thereby;
for in himself he was eternally just and holy, even as the Father,
but it respected us, even us. For US he was made under the law,
that we, by his fulfilling the law, might by him be redeemed from
under the law, and also receive the adoption of SONS (Gal 4:4,5).
For we having sinned, and transgressed the law, and the justice of
God, yet requiring obedience thereto, and the law being too weak
through our flesh to do it, God therefore sent his own Son in
the likeness of sinful flesh, who himself for us did first of all
walk in the law, and then for sin suffered also in his flesh, the
sentence, and curse pronounced against us by the law. For it was
nothing less necessary, when the Son of God became undertaker
for the sin of the world, that he should walk in obedience to the
whole of the precepts of the law, to deliver us from the judgment
of the law; I say it was no less necessary he should so do, than
that he should bear our curse and death. For it would have been
impossible for him to have overcome the last, if he had not been
spotless touching the first. For therefore it was impossible he
should be holden of death, because he did nothing worthy of death;
no, not in the judgment of the law, to which he immediately stood.
Now as Christ Jesus stood thus to, and walked in the law, it is
blasphemy for any to presume to imitate him; because thus to do is
to turn Mediator and undertaker for the sin of the world. Besides,
whoso doth attempt it, undertakes an impossibility; for no man can
stand by the moral law, as it immediately comes from the divine
majesty; he having sinned first, even before he goeth about to
fulfil it. And in this sense is that to be understood, 'as many as
are of the works of the law are under the curse,' held accursed,
because they have sinned first; accursed in their performances,
because of imperfection, and therefore assuredly accursed at last,
because they come short of the righteousness thereof.

1. Christ Jesus did never set himself forth for an example, that
by imitating his steps in morals should obtain justification with
God from the curse of that law; for this would be to overthrow,
and utterly abolish the work which himself came into the world to
accomplish, which was not to be our example, that we by treading
his steps might have remission of sins, but that through the faith
of him, through faith in his blood, we might be reconciled to God.

2. Besides, thus to imitate Christ, is to make of him a Saviour, not
by sacrifice, but by example. Nay, to speak the whole, this would
be to make his mediatorship wholly to center, rather in prescribing
of rules, and exacting obedience to morals, than in giving himself
a ransom for men; yea, I will add to imitate Christ, as you have
prescribed, may be done by him, that yet may be ignorant of the
excellency of his person, and the chief end of his being made
flesh: For in all these things which you have discoursed in that
fifth chapter of him, you have only spoken of that, something of
which is apprehended by the light of nature; yea, nature itself will
teach that men should trust in God, which is the most excellent
particular that there you mention. Wherefore our Lord Jesus himself
foreseeing, that in men there will be a proudness, to content
themselves with that confidence, he intimateth that it would be
in us insignificant, if it stand without faith in himself. 'Ye
believe [naturally] in God [saith he] believe also in me' (John
14:1). Faith in Jesus is as absolutely necessary as to believe
immediately in the divine being. Yea, without faith in Jesus,
whosoever believeth in God is sure to perish and burn in hell.
'If you believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins' (John
8:24). And to take Jesus in morals for example, is nowhere called
believing in him, neither is there one promise of eternal life,
annexed to such a practice. But you say, 'If we tread in his blessed
steps, and be such, according to our measure and capacity, as we
have understood he was in this world' (p. 296).

Ans. I say, for a man to confine himself only to the life of the
Lord Jesus, for an example, or to think it enough to make him,
in his life, a pattern for us to follow, leaveth us, through our
shortness in the end, with the devil and his angels, for want of
faith in the doctrine of remission of sins; for Christ did nowhere
make another mediator between God and him, nor did he ever trust
to another man's righteousness, to be thereby justified from the
curse of the law; neither did he at all stand in need thereof,
without which, we must be damned and perish. Now I say, these
things being nowhere practised by him, he cannot therein be an
example to us. And I say again, seeing that in these things, by
faith in them, is immediately wrapped up our reconciliation with
God; it followeth, that though a man take the Lord Christ in
his whole life, for an example in the end, that notwithstanding,
he abideth unreconciled to God. Neither will that clause, 'and
be such,' help such a person at all: For justification with God,
comes not by imitating Christ as exemplary in morals, but through
faith in his precious blood. In the law I read, that the Paschal
Lamb was neither to be eaten sodden nor raw, but roast with fire,
must it be eaten (Exo 12). Now to make salvation principally to
depend upon imitating Christ's life, it is to feed upon him raw,
or at most, as sodden, not sanctified and holy: But the precept
is, 'Eat it roast with fire'; is to be the antitype, as accursed
of God for sin, and enduring the punishment for it (Exo 19; Deu
33:2; Mal 4:1). The law is compared to fire, and its curse to
a burning oven. Now under the curse of this fiery law, was the
Lord Jesus afflicted for the sins of the world: wherefore, as so
considered, our faith must lay hold upon him, for justification
with God. 'This is the law of the burnt-offering: [which was the
offering for sin;] It is the burnt-offering, because of the burning
upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the
altar shall be burning in it' (Lev 6:9). But now I would inquire:
Had Israel done the commandment, if they had eaten the passover
raw, or boiled in water? Or if they had offered that offering, that
was to be burnt as a sin-offering, otherwise than it was commanded?
Even so, to feed upon Christ, as he is holy, and of good life only;
and also, as taking him therein for an example to us, to follow
his steps for justification with God; this is, to eat the passover
raw, and not as roast with fire; this is, to feed upon Jesus,
without respecting him as accursed of God for our sin, and so
consequently to miss of that eternal life, that by his blood he
hath obtained for every one that believeth on him. I have been
pleased with this observation: That none of the signs and wonders
in Egypt, could deliver the children of Israel thence, till the
Lamb was slain, and roast with fire (Exo 12:31). And I have been
also pleased with this: That the Father, not Moses, gave the manna
from heaven, which was a type of the flesh, and blood of Christ,
that whoso feedeth on, shall live for ever (John 6:32). Yea,
circumcision also, which was a type of inward, and heart-holiness,
was not of Moses, but of the Fathers, and principally a consequence
of the faith of Abraham (John 7:22). Whence I gather, that no
wonder, but the blood of Christ can save; that no kindness, but
the mercy of God, can give this to us; and that no law, but the
law of faith, can make us truly holy in heart. But you add, 'Those
that sincerely, and industriously, endeavour to imitate the holy
Jesus in his Spirit and actions, can never be ignorant what it is
to be truly Christians.' Those that follow Jesus in his Spirit, must
first receive that Spirit from heaven, which Spirit is received,
as I have often said, by applying first, by faith, the merits of
Christ to the soul, for life and justification with God. The Spirit
is not received by the works of the law, but by the hearing of
faith; neither comes it in the ministry, or doctrine of morals,
but in and by the ministry of faith; and the law is not of faith.
Wherefore seeing you have, in p. 223 of your book, forbidden sinners
to come first to Jesus for justification with God; the Spirit you
talk of, however you call it the Spirit of Jesus, can be no other
than the spirit of a man; which you also yourself, in p. 7, 8, 9
call 'the purity of human nature, a principle of reason, the first
principles of morals, or those that are originally dictates of
human nature.' Wherefore by these words, 'in his Spirit,' you do
but blaspheme the Holy Ghost, and abuse your ignorant reader;
calling now, Quaker-like, the dictates of your humanity, and
your Socinian compliances therewith, the Spirit of Holy Jesus. I
conclude therefore, that the way of salvation, or the design of
Christianity as prescribed by you, is none other than the errors of
your own brain, the way of death, the sum and heart of Papistical
Quakerism, and is quite denied by the Lord Jesus, and by his blessed
Testament. And now go your ways, and imitate the Lord Jesus, and
take the whole history of his life for your example, and walk in
his steps, and be such as much as you can, yet without faith in
his blood, first; yea, and if you stand not just before God through
the imputation of his righteousness, your imitating will be found
no better than rebellion, because by that, instead of faith in his
blood, you hope to obtain remission of sins, thrusting him thereby
from his office and work, and setting your dunghill righteousness
up in his stead.

[Fowler's false and dangerous conclusions.]

I come now to your conclusion. First, in p. 298 'You press men
to betake themselves to find [that which you call] the design of
Christianity, accomplished in their hearts and lives.'

Ans. Seeing that the holiness that your erroneous book has exalted,
is none other but that which we have lost; yea, and again, seeing
you have set this in the head of, and before the righteousness of
Christ, I admonish my reader to tremble at the blasphemy of your
book, and account the whole design therein, to be none other but
that of an enemy to the Son of God, and salvation of the world.
For that holiness as I have shewed, is none other but a shadowish,
Christless, graceless holiness; and your so exalting of it, very
blasphemy. You proceed, saying, 'Let us exercise ourselves unto
real and substantial godliness; [still meaning your Adamitish
holiness] let us study the gospel not to discourse, or only to
believe, but also, and above all things, to do well.'

Ans. Herein still you manifest, either ignorance of, or malice against,
the doctrine of faith; that doctrine, which above all doctrines,
is the quintessence of the New Testament, because therein, and
not principally, as you feign, by doing well, is the righteousness
of God revealed, and that from faith to faith; not from faith to
works, nor yet from works to faith. Besides, the gospel is preached
in all nations, for the obedience of faith (Rom 16:26). Neither
works, the law, the dictates of humanity, nor the first principles of
morals, knowing what to do with the righteousness of the gospel,
which is a righteousness imputed by God, not wrought by us;
a righteousness given, not earned, a righteousness received by
believing, not that which floweth from our obedience to laws, a
righteousness which comes from God to us, not one that goeth from
us to God. Besides, as I also have hinted before, the apostle and
you are directly opposite. You cry, 'above all things, do well':
that is, work and do the law; but he, 'above ALL, take the shield
of faith, wherewith are quenched all the fiery darts of the wicked'
(Eph 6:16).

But you add (p. 300), 'Let us do what lieth in us to convince our
Atheists, that the religion of the blessed Jesus, is no trick or
device; and our wanton and loose Christians, that it is no notional
business, or speculative science.'

Ans. This you cannot do by your moral natural principles of humanity:
For even some of your brave philosophers, whose godliness you have
so much applauded, were even then in the midst of their, and your
virtues, atheistically ignorant of the religion of Jesus. And as
to the loose Christian; Christ neither hath need of, nor will he
bless your blasphemous opinions, nor feigned godliness, but real
ungodliness, to make them converts to his faith and grace, neither
can it be expected it should, seeing you have not only dirty
thoughts, but vilifying words, and sayings of his person, work,
and righteousness. you have set your works before his (p. 223),
calling them substantial, indispensable, and real; but coming to
God by him, a thing in itself indifferent (p. 7-9). You go on, and
say, 'Let us declare--that we are not barely reliers on Christ's
righteousness, by being imitators of it' (p. 300). You cannot leave
off to contemn and blaspheme the Son of God. Do you not yet know
that the righteousness of Christ on which the sinner ought to rely
for life, is such, as consisted in his standing to, and doing of
the law, without a Mediator? And would you be doing this? What know
you not, that an essential of the righteousness he accomplished
for sinners when he was in the world; is, 'That he was conceived
by the Holy Ghost, born without sin, did all things in the power
of, and union with his own eternal Godhead.' And are you able
thus to imitate him? Again, the righteousness on which we ought
to rely for life, is that which hath in it the merit of blood:
we are 'justified by his blood' through faith in his blood (Rom
5:9). Is this the righteousness you would imitate? Farther, the
righteousness on which poor sinners should rely, is that, for the
sake of which God forgiveth the sins of him that resteth by faith
thereupon. But would you be imitating of, or accomplishing such
a righteousness?

Your book, Sir, is begun in ignorance, managed with error, and
ended in blasphemy.

Now the God of glory, if it may stand with his glory, give you a
sight of your sins, against the Son of God, that you may, as Saul,
lie trembling, and being astonished, cry out to be justified, with
the righteousness of God without the law, even that which is by
faith of Jesus Christ, unto all, and upon all them that believe.

Many other gross absurdities, which I have omitted in your whole
book, may perhaps, be more thoroughly gathered up, when you shall
have taken the opportunity to reply. In the meantime I shall
content myself with this.

'Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world'
(John 1:29).

'Even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come' (1 Thess
1:10).

'Who when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right
hand of the Majesty on high' (Heb 1:3).

'Christ died for our sins' (1 Cor 15:3).

'God hath made him to be sin for us' (2 Cor 5:21).

'Christ was made a curse for us' (Gal 3:13).

'He bare our sins in his own body on the tree' (1 Peter 2:24).

'He loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood' (Rev
1:5).

'God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you' (Eph 4:32).

'We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins,
according to the riches of his grace' (Eph 1:7).

Now unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise
God, be honour, and glory, for ever, and ever. Amen.


THE CONCLUSION.

That my reader may farther perceive that Mr. Fowler, even by the
chief of the articles of the church of England, is adjudged
erroneous; and besides the very fundamentals of the doctrine of
Jesus Christ, and that in those very principles that are in the
main, I say, and that most immediately concern Christ, faith,
and salvation, will be evident to them that compare his design of
Christianity, with these articles hereunto recited.

The Article [X.] concerning Free-will.

'The condition of man, after the fall of Adam, is such, that he
cannot turn and prepare himself, by his own natural strength and
good works, to faith, and calling upon God: wherefore we have no
power to do good works, pleasant and acceptable to God, without
the grace of God by Christ preventing[37] us, that we may have a
good will, and working with us, when we have that good will.'

The Article [XI.] concerning Justification.

'We are accounted righteous before God, ONLY for the merit of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, by faith; and not for our own
works, or deservings. Wherefore that we are justified by faith
ONLY, is a most wholesome doctrine, and very full of comfort,'
&c.

The Article [XIII.] of Works before Justification.

'Works done before the grace of Christ, and the inspiration of
his Spirit, are not pleasant to God, for as much as they spring
not of faith in Jesus Christ,--or deserve grace of congruity: yea
rather, for that they are not done as God hath willed and commanded
them to be done, we doubt not but they have the NATURE of sin.'

These articles, because they respect the points in controversy
betwixt Mr. Fowler, and myself; and because they be also fundamental
truths of the christian religion, as I do heartily believe, let
all men know that I quarrel not with him, about things wherein I
dissent from the church of England, but do contend for the truth
contained, even in these very articles of theirs, from which he
hath so deeply revolted, that he clasheth with every one of them,
as may farther be shewn when he shall take heart to reply.

But to wind up this unpleasant scribble, I shall have done when
I have farther shewed, how he joineth with papist, and quaker,
against these wholesome, and fundamental articles.

Mr. Fowler's Doctrine compared with Campian the Jesuit, upon that
question whether Faith only justifieth: saith Campian,

1. Campian. 'We [Papists] say, that as grace is put into us in
justification, so also our righteousness is enlarged through good
works, and is inherent in us; therefore it is not true that God
doth justify by faith ONLY.'

Fowler (p. 221), 'Justifying faith is such a belief of the truth
of the gospel, as includes a sincere resolution of obedience unto
all its precepts: and that it justifieth as it doth so.--In short,
is it possible that faith in Christ's blood, for the forgiveness
of sins, should be the only act which justifieth a sinner?' (p.
224).

2. Campian. 'So that faith is urged, but not faith ONLY; again,
by faith is meant all Christianity, and the whole religion of
Christians.'

Fowler (p. 222), 'For surely the faith which entitles the sinner
to so high a privilege, as that of justification, must needs be
such as complieth with all the purposes of Christ's coming into
the world; especially with his grand purpose,--as Lord, and that
it is no less necessary that it should justify as it doth this.'

3. Campian. 'Though works void of Christ are nothing; yet through
grace they serve to justification.'

Fowler (p. 225,226), 'Of the imputation of Christ's righteousness,--this
is the true explication; it consists in dealing with sincerely
righteous persons: as if they were perfectly so, for the sake
and upon the account of Christ's righteousness. The grand intent
of the gospel being to make us partakers of an inward and real
righteousness; and it being but a secondary one, that we should
be accepted, and rewarded, as if we were completely righteous.'

4. Campian. 'Speaking of faith, hope, and charity, he confesseth;
that faith in nature is before them, but it doth not justify before
they come.'

Fowler (p. 223), 'What pretence can there be for thinking, that
faith is the condition, or instrument of justification, as it
complieth with only the precept of relying on Christ's merits, for
the obtaining of it: especially when it is no less manifest than
the sun at noon-day, that obedience to the other precepts, [or
works of love,] must go before obedience to this' (p. 284).

5. Campian. 'I deny [that faith ONLY doth justify] for you have
not in all the word of God, that faith only doth justify.'

Fowler (p. 225), 'And for my part, I must confess, that I would
not willingly be he that should undertake to encounter one of the
champions of that foul cause, with the admission of this principle,
that faith justifieth, only as it apprehendeth [resteth or relieth
on (p. 224)] the merits, and righteousness of Jesus Christ, I must
certainly have great luck, or my adversary but little cunning, if
I were not forced to repent me of such an engagement.'

6. Campian. 'Abraham being a just man, was made more just by a
living faith.'

Fowler (p. 283), 'He only is a true child of Abraham, who in the
purity of the heart obeyeth those substantial laws, that are
imposed by God, upon him.'

7. Campian. 'I say that charity and good works, are not excluded
[in the causes of our justification].'

Fowler (p. 214,215), 'For we have shewn, not only that reformation
of life from the practice, and purification of heart from the
liking of sin, are as plainly as can be asserted in the gospel
to be absolutely necessary to give men a right to the promises of
it, but also that its great salvation doth even consist in it.'

Mr. Fowler's Doctrine compared with William Penn the Quaker.

1. Penn's Sandy Foundation (p. 19 [p. 16 ed. 1684]), 'Life and
salvation is to them that follow Christ the light, in all his
righteousness, which every man comes only to experiment, as he
walks in a holy subjection to that measure of light and grace,
wherewith the fulness hath enlightened him.'

Fowler (p. 8), 'That is, those which are of an indispensable, and
eternal obligation, which were first written in men's hearts, and
originally dictates of human nature.'

2. Penn (p. 32 [p. 26 ed. 1684]), 'I really confess that Jesus Christ
fulfilled the Father's will, and offered up a most satisfactory
sacrifice, but not to pay God, or help him [as otherways being
unable] to save men.'

Fowler (p. 85), 'Christ was set forth to be a propitiatory sacrifice
for sin; I will not say that his Father [who is perfectly sui juris]
might be put by this means into a capacity of forgiving it.'

3. Penn (p. 16 [p. 14 ed. 1684]), 'God's remission is grounded
on man's repentance, not that it is impossible for God to pardon
without a plenary satisfaction.'

Fowler (p. 84), 'There are many that do not question but that God
could have pardoned sin, without any other satisfaction, than the
repentance of the sinner,' &c.

4. Penn (p. 27 [p. 22 ed. 1684]), 'Justification doth not go before,
but is subsequential to the mortification of lusts.'

Fowler (p. 14,15), 'This blessing of making men holy, was so much
the design of Christ's coming, that he had his very name from
it': observe the words are, 'He shall save his people from their
sins'; not from the punishment of them. And that is the primary
sense of them, which is most plainly expressed in them: 'That he
shall save his people from the punishment of sin, is a true sense
too; but it is secondary and implied only; as this latter is the
never failing and necessary consequent of the former salvation.'

5. Penn (p. 25 [p. 21 ed. 1684]), 'Since therefore there can be
no admittance had, without performing that righteous will, and
doing those holy, and perfect sayings; alas! to what value will
an imputative righteousness amount?' &c.

Fowler (p. 16), 'Christ shall bring in an inward substantial, and
everlasting righteousness, and by abrogating the outward [ceremonial]
and establishing ONLY this righteousness, he should enlarge the
Jewish Church, an accession of the Gentiles, being by that means
made unto it.'

6. Penn (p. 24,25 [p. 20 ed. 1684]), 'Since God has prescribed
an inoffensive life, as that which only can give acceptance with
him; and on the contrary hath determined never to justify the
wicked, &c.--Will not the abomination appear greatest of all, where
God shall be found condemning the just, on purpose to justify the
wicked; and that he is thereto compelled, or else no salvation,
which is the tendency of their doctrine, who imagine the righteous,
and merciful God to condemn and punish his [innocent[38]] righteous
Son, that he having satisfied for our sins, we might be justified
[while unsanctified] by the imputation of his perfect righteousness.
O why should this horrible thing be contended for by Christians!'

Fowler (p. 119), 'If it were possible [as it hath been proved it
is not] that a wicked man should have God's pardon, it would not
make him cease to be miserable.'

Fowler (p. 120), 'Were it possible that Christ's righteousness could
be imputed to an unrighteous man, I dare boldly affirm it would
signify as little to his happiness, as would a gorgeous and splendid
garment, to one that is almost starved with hunger, or that lieth
racked by the torturing diseases of the stone, or colic.'

Fowler (p. 130), 'To justify a wicked man, while he continueth
so, if it were possible for God to do it, would far more disparage
his justice, and holiness, than advance his grace and kindness.'

7. Penn (p. 26 [p. 22 ed. 1684]), 'Unless we be[come] doers of
that law, which Christ came not to destroy, but as our example to
fulfil, we can never be justified before God.'

Fowler (p. 296), 'It is impossible we should not have the design
of Christianity accomplished in us, and therefore that we should
be destitute of the power of it, if we make our Saviour's most
excellent life, the pattern of our lives. Those that sincerely,
and industriously endeavour to imitate the holy Jesus in his
spirit and actions, can never be ignorant what it is to be truly
Christians, nor can they fail to be so.'

8. Penn (p. 26), 'Nor let any fancy that Christ hath so fulfilled
it for them, as to exclude their obedience, from being requisite
to their acceptance, but only as their pattern.'

Fowler (p. 148), 'This Son of God taught men their duty, by his
own example, and did himself perform among them, what he required
of them. Now that he should tread before us EVERY step of that way,
which he hath told us leadeth to eternal happiness, and commend
those duties which are most ungrateful to our corrupt inclinations,
by his own practice; our having so brave an example is no small
encouragement, to a cheerful performance of all that is commanded.'

Understandest thou what thou readest?


FOOTNOTES:

1. Fowler's Design, p. 6.

2. Ibid.

3. Seeing, then, it is evident from scripture, how deeply and
dreadfully man is fallen from God, what a folly it is to suppose,
in such a depraved creature, conditions previous to his justification!
They who talk at this rate, know not what they say, nor whereof
they affirm. In a natural man there is no meetness, but a meetness
to sin, and a meetness to be damned. They who know themselves,
know this. And there are no pre-requisites to justification, but
what God, by his Spirit, is pleased to work in men's hearts. None
are meet to obey the gospel, till God implants in their souls
a principle of faith and evangelical obedience. Before this is
done, there is no meetness in the creature, no disposition to do
anything spiritually good; neither are any of our works, till a
change of nature takes place, acceptable and well-pleasing in the
sight of Almighty God.--Mason and Ryland.

4. Fowler, p. 6.

5. Ibid.

6. Fowler, p. 6.

7. Ibid.

8. Man, in his first estate, was holy and righteous; and he continued
to be possessed of this righteousness as long as he was obedient
to his Creator; but as soon as he disobeyed the divine command,
he lost all his holiness and righteousness at once; he emptied
himself of every spark of goodness, and was full of all manner
of wickedness; he forfeited all his primitive purity, and became
a sinful, impure, and unrighteous creature. Hence, all mankind are
destitute of original righteousness: there is none of the children
of men righteous, 'no not one: there is none that doeth good,
no not one' (Rom 3:10,12). What then becomes of the purity and
dignity of human nature, so vainly boasted of? or how shall man be
righteous before God? To this last question, we answer with Paul,
in the above-quoted chapter (vv 21, 22), 'Now the righteousness of
God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and
the prophets; even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of
Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe.' Without this
righteousness, no soul ever was, no soul ever will be, justified
before God.--Mason and Ryland.

9. Great will be the condemnation of all those who profess to know
God, but in works deny him; who are abominable and disobedient, and
unto every good work reprobate (Titus 1:16). A great profession,
without a suitable life and conversation, will only procure a
greater condemnation. Therefore, up, ye sleepy virgins; up, and
be doing; shew your faith by your works. There is no true religion
without good works, attended with a godly walk and behaviour. There
may be works seemingly good, where there is no true religion.
Good works are not the causes, but the fruits and effects of true
religion, of justifying faith wrought in the soul by the Holy Ghost;
and where true religion is, good works, of every divine kind and
quality, will naturally follow, to the glory and praise of that grace
which alone brings salvation to miserable ruined sinners.--Mason
and Ryland.

10. Hierocles, the Greek philosopher.

11. Bunyan must have formed his opinions of the Quakers from some
persons who passed as such. No form either of doctrine or discipline
had appeared in 1672. As soon as their tenets were published, they
professed, as they do to this day, entire dependence upon Jesus
Christ for holiness.--Ed.

12. Mr. Fowler gives no reference to any of the works of these
learned divines, nor could he!! He traduces these great reformers
and the doctrines of his own church, and yet was soon after made
a bishop!!!--Ed.

13. The saints of God experience a mystery of iniquity, a horrible
depth of corruption in their own hearts, and groan under the
plague and burden of it. If we rightly know ourselves, and behold
our vileness, filthiness, and exceeding sinfulness, in their
true colours, we shall be obliged to own that we are very wicked,
unholy, ungodly, abominable; and that a principle and inclination
to evil is so prevalent in the best of us, that were God to leave
us to ourselves, we should greedily commit the most heinous sins.
These truly humbled persons, and these alone, are made sensible
of the want of the application of the precious atoning blood
of Christ to cleanse them from the pollution of sin, and of the
sanctifying grace of the Spirit to deliver them from the dominion
and tyranny of it.--Mason and Ryland.

14. 'Rusheth the soul.' To rush is a neuter verb, here used in an
active sense;--'precipitateth' gives the correct idea.--Ed.

15. 'So natural, and ignorant,' in distinction from that spiritual
wisdom which is immortal and illuminating.--Ed.

16. Against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, such as
disbelief, idolatry, adultery, &c. (p. 35).

17. How astonishing the mystery! how condescending the love! that
the infinite Deity and finite flesh should meet in one person
(Christ), in order to display to mankind the glory of God in that
divine person! to bring hell-deserving mortals into a nearness,
yea, into a oneness with his Creator, that they might be made
partakers of his holiness, and adore and admire his perfections
for ever! O Christians, know and prize your inestimable privileges,
and be instant at the throne of grace, that your souls may be
so far assimilated to the image of the ever-blessed and adorable
Jesus, that you may be constantly looking and hastening to, and
longing for that happy time, when, having dropt the dimming rages
of mortality, the veil of sinful flesh, you shall be brought to
'know him even as you are known' of him, because you shall 'see
him as he is.'--Ryland.

18. 'Common,' as the head of his church, in whom all his people
have an equal or common right.--Ed.

19. 'And even that miracle which might seem the most inconsiderable,
namely, his causing his disciple Peter to catch a fish with a small
piece of money in its mouth, was also instructive of a duty; it
being an instance of his loyalty to the supreme magistrate; for
the money was expended in paying tribute, and taken out of the sea
in that strange manner for no other purpose.'--Fowler's Design,
&c. p. 72.

20. 'Lay you,' brings forth to yourself. 'Lay' is here used as
in 'a hen lays eggs'; such an application to this proverb is a
cutting satire.--Ed.

21. 'To possess them.' Possess was formerly used as an active
verb, but now is only used as a neuter verb; the meaning is 'to
fill them with the certainty of the knowledge.'

22. 'As in Adam all died,' were bereft of every good, and became
obnoxious to wrath and endless misery, so 'IN Christ,' by virtue
of his life, death, and resurrection, 'shall all be made alive';
they shall have that incorruptible seed implanted in their hearts,
which liveth and abideth for ever. Every grace and blessing
is derived to the renewed soul from its union to Christ, as its
living head, through the eternal Spirit. Christ hath fulfilled
all righteousness for us and in our stead, and this was the end
and intent of his coming into the world; so that Christ is now
become the righteousness of all them that do truly believe in him.
'Created IN Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before
ordained that we should walk in them' (Eph 2:10).--Mason and
Ryland.

23. Would to God this legal, self-exalting, Christ-dishonouring
doctrine had been confined to the times in which our author wrote, or
had been then banished to hell, from whence it came; but alas! it
is but too prevalent in these degenerate times, in which Arianism,
Arminianism, Socinianism, &c., &c., so dreadfully infect the
multitude even of professors! In the national churches, what do
we hear but Moses and the law, 'This do and live'; or, in other
words, do your duty as well as you can, and Christ will do the
rest: thus making the gospel the sacrifice of Christ, and the work
of the Spirit, of no effect. Whereas, on the contrary, unregenerate,
depraved, and sinful mortals 'have no power to do good works
pleasant and acceptable to God, without the grace of God preventing
[or going before] them, that they may have a good will; and
working in and by them, when they have that good will'; which is
perfectly agreeable to our Lord's declaration, (John 15:5) 'Without
me, ye can do nothing.'--Mason and Ryland.

24. 'Sir Johns,' formerly the title given to the priests. It was
succeeded by the title 'reverend.'--Ed.

25. Chap. 17: 'How fearfully the gospel is abused by the papists.'
Chap. 18: 'Those sottish, who expect salvation without holiness;
and those more so who encourage themselves by the grace of the
gospel in unholiness.'--Heads of these Chapters.--Ed.

26. 'Would that man be accounted any better than a perfect idiot,
who, being sorely hurt, should expect from his surgeon perfect
ease, when he will not permit him to apply any plaister for the
healing of his wound? Or that being deadly sick, should look that
his physician should deliver him from his pain, when he will not
take any course he prescribes for the removal of the distemper
that is the cause of it?'--Fowler's Design, p. 216. How admirably
does Bunyan detect and unravel this casuistic sophistry.--Ed.

27. 'The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith';
that is, from one degree of faith to another: therefore increase
in faith; live nearer to Christ; and the nearer you live to
the Saviour, the farther you will be from sin; yea, he will make
you, by precious faith in him, more than conqueror over all your
spiritual enemies: therefore venture wholly upon Christ, and see
if he will cast you out: indeed, he never will. Trust in him,
hope in him, believe in him, and you will never be disappointed.
All our fitness is in Christ. Believe in him, and he is yours. In
him dwells all fullness. Believe in Christ, and all that Christ
has is yours: his blood is yours, his wisdom is yours, his
righteousness, his sanctification is yours; yea, Christ Jesus
himself is yours--he is yours in this world, and in the world to
come; he is yours in time, and in eternity. Even so, Amen.--Mason
and Ryland.

28. 'More groundedly,' with better foundation.

29. 'Take the way,' occupy the place.--Ed.

30. 'Doubtful opinions, modes and rites, eagerly opposed, is like
the apes blowing at a glowworm, which affords neither light nor
warmth' (p. 239).

31. These sentiments are the essential fundamentals of all state
religions, be they heathen, christian, or mohamedan. This plain
avowal of them might have been the cause why the author was soon
after made a bishop of the Church of England.--Ed.

32. Like the vicar of Bray, near Maidenhead, who boasted of his
consistency. He was under Henry VIII a papist, then a semi-protestant;
under Edward, a protestant; under Mary, again a papist; and under
Elizabeth, a protestant. Still he had never ceased to be vicar of
Bray.--Ed.

33. 'Diggle together,' probably from 'degladiation,' a combat,
quarrel, or contest; a fencing match between two friends.--Ed.

34. Fowler's picture of the want of uniformity in the preachers
of his sect, all being under the 'Act of Uniformity,' is very
amusing and instructive!!--Ed.

35. Undoubtedly so; because the good works of a man who is under
the influence and power of divine grace, flow from the constraining
love of a coveannt-reconciled God in Christ Jesus, whom the
holy-making Spirit glorifies and renders precious to every true
believer in him.--Mason and Ryland.

36. The Jews were divided into three sections: I. The descendants
of Israel; II. Proselytes who conformed to all the Mosaic rites;
and, III. Those who were bound to obey the seven precepts of
Noah--and these, although they did not conform to the Jewish rites,
yet were admitted to the worship of the true God and the hope of
the life to come. According to the Talmud these precepts were--1.
To renounce idols and all idolatrous worship. 2. To worship the
true God, the creator of heaven and earth. 3. Bloodshed, to commit
no murder. 4. Not to be defiled with fornication. 5. Rapine, against
theft and robbery. 6. To administer justice. 7. Not eating flesh
with the blood in it.--Ed.

37. 'To prevent,' from 'praevenio,' to go before; 'preventing us'
was formerly used for 'preparing us.' It is now obsolete in this
sense, but frequently occurs in the Bible.--Ed.

38. 'Innocent' instead of 'righteous,' ed. 1684.

***

REPROBATION ASSERTED: OR, THE DOCTRINE OF ETERNAL ELECTION AND
REPROBATION PROMISCUOUSLY HANDLED, IN ELEVEN CHAPTERS.

WHEREIN THE MOST MATERIAL OBJECTIONS MADE BY THE OPPOSERS OF THIS
DOCTRINE, ARE FULLY ANSWERED; SEVERAL DOUBTS REMOVED, AND SUNDRY
CASES OF CONSCIENCE RESOLVED.

BY JOHN BUNYAN OF BEDFORD, A LOVER OF PEACE AND TRUTH.

'What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but
the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded.'--Romans
11:7

London: Printed for G. L., and are to be sold in Turn-stile-alley,
in Holbourn. Small 4to, 44 pages.


EDITOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.

This valuable tract was first published without a date, but according
to Doe's List, about the year 1674, and has never been reprinted
in a separate volume; it appeared in only one edition of the
collected works of John Bunyan--that with the notes by Ryland and
Mason; and in his select works, published in America in 1832. No
man could have been better qualified to write upon the subject
of reprobation than Bunyan.--His extraordinary knowledge of, and
fervent attachment to, the holy oracles, peculiarly fitted him
with unwavering verity to display this doctrine of divine truth.
He was incapable of any misrepresentation with a view of concealing
what fallen reason might deem a deformity, or to render the doctrines
of the cross palatable to mankind. His object is to display the
truth, and then humbly to submit to the wisdom of God, and zealously
to vindicate it. There is no subject which more fully displays
our fallen nature, than that of reprobation. All mankind agree
in opinion, that there ever has been an elect, or good class
of society; and a reprobate, or worthless and bad class; varying
in turpitude or in goodness to a great extent and in almost
imperceptible degrees. All must unite in ascribing to God that
divine foreknowledge that renders ten thousand years but as one
day, or hour, or moment in his sight. All ascribe to his omnipotence
the power to ordain or decree what shall come to pass--and where
is the spirit that can demonstrate a shade of difference between
such foreknowledge and preordination. All agree that in the
lower class of animals some of the same species pass their lives
in luxury and comfort, while others are cruelly tormented, this
world comprising their whole term of existence; and will those
who refuse to submit to the sovereignty of God in the doctrine of
election dare to arraign his conduct in leaving some out of his
electing love? The reprobate or worthless lose nothing by the
happiness of others. It is inscrutably hid from mankind who are
the elect, until the Holy Spirit influences them with the love
of God in Christ Jesus, and this sometimes in the last moments of
life. There is every encouragement, nay incentive, to the sinner
who feels the burthen of guilt to fly for refuge to the hope set
before him in the gospel. 'It is a faithful saying, and worthy
of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save
SINNERS'; even the chief of sinners. The glad tidings are addressed
to ALL sin-sick souls; and Bunyan's statement of this truth is clear,
scriptural, and reasonable. Very different is the account of the
reprobation given by R. Resburie in his Stop to the Gangrene of
Arminianism, 1651. 'For the reprobate God decrees the permitting
of sin in order to hardening, and their hardening in it, in order
to their condemnation.' p. 69. 'As election is the book of life,
so reprobation of death; the names of the reprobate are there
registered for destruction.' p. 73. It is much to be regretted
that sentiments like these have been too commonly uttered. It is
as an antidote to such ideas that this little work was written; but,
unfortunately, it has never been widely circulated and read. May
the divine blessing follow this attempt to spread these important,
although to many, unpalatable, doctrines.

GEORGE OFFOR.


REPROBATION ASSERTED.


CHAPTER 1.

That there is a Reprobation.

In my discourse upon this subject, I shall study as much brevity
as clearness and edification will allow me; not adding words to
make the volume swell, but contracting myself within the bounds of
few lines, for the profit and commodity of those that shall take
the pains to read my labours. And though I might abundantly multiply
arguments for the evincing and vindicating this conclusion, yet I
shall content myself with some few scripture demonstrations: the
first of which I shall gather out of the ninth of the Romans,
from that discourse of the apostle's, touching the children of
the flesh, and the children of the promise.

1. At the beginning of this chapter, we find the apostle grievously
lamenting and bemoaning of the Jews, at the consideration of their
miserable state: 'I say the truth in Christ, [saith he] I lie not,
my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, that I
have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. For I could
wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my
kinsmen according to the flesh': Poor hearts, saith he, they will
perish; they are a miserable sad and helpless people; their eyes
are darkened that they may not see, and their back is bowed down
alway (Rom 11:10). Wherefore? Have they not the means of grace?
Yes verily, and that in goodly measure. First they 'are Israelites;
to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants,
and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises;
whose are the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ
came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.' What then
should be the reason? Why saith he, though they be the children
of Abraham according to the flesh, yet they are the children of
Abraham BUT according to the flesh: 'For they are not all Israel
[in the best sense] which are of Israel: neither, because they are
the seed of Abraham, are they all children: but, in Isaac shall
thy seed be called.' That is, they that are the children of the
flesh, they are not the children of God; but the children of the
promise shall be counted for the seed. So then, here you see that
they that are only the children of the flesh, as the greatest
part of Israel were, they are those that are neither counted for
the seed, the children of promise, nor the children of God; but
are rejected, and of the reprobation. This therefore shall at this
time serve for the first scripture-demonstration.

2. Another scripture you have in the eleventh chapter of this
epistle, from these words, 'The election hath obtained it, and the
REST were blinded' (Rom 11:7). These words are shedding[1] words,
they sever between men and men; the election, the rest; the chosen,
the left; the embraced, the refused: 'The election have obtained
it, and the rest were blinded.' By rest here, must needs be
understood those not elect, because set one in opposition to the
other; and if not elect, what then but reprobate?

3. A third scripture is that in the Acts of the Apostles, 'And as
many as were ordained to eternal life, believed' (13:48). 'And as
many'; by these words, as by the former, you may see how the Holy
Ghost distinguisheth or divideth between men and men; the sons,
and the sons of Adam. 'As many as were ordained to eternal life,
believed': If by many here, we are to understand every individual,
then not only the whole world must at least believe the gospel,
of which we see the most fall short, but they must be ordained to
eternal life; which other scriptures contradict: for there is the
rest, besides the elect; the stubble and chaff, as well as wheat:
many therefore must here include but some; 'For though--Israel be
as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved' (Rom 9:27; Isa
1:9, 10:22,23).

I might here multiply many other texts, but in the mouth of two
or three witnesses shall every word be established. Let these
therefore for this, suffice to prove that there is a reprobation.
For this I say, though the children of the flesh, the rest besides
the election, and the like, were not mentioned in the word; yet
seeing there is such a thing as the children of the promise, the
seed, the children of God, and the like, and that too under several
other phrases, as predestinated, foreknown, chosen in Christ, and
written in the Book of life, and appointed unto life, with many
others: I say seeing these things are thus apparent, it is without
doubt, that there is such a thing as a reprobation also (Rom 8;
Eph 1:3,4; 1 Thess 5:9).

Nay, further, From the very word election, it followeth unavoidably;
for whether you take it as relating to this, of distinguishing
between persons as touching the world to come, or with reference
to God's acts of choosing this or that man to this or that office,
work, or employment in this world, it still signifieth such a
choosing, as that but some are therein concerned, and that therefore
some are thence excluded. Are all the elect, the seed, the saved,
the vessels of mercy, the chosen and peculiar? Are not some,
yea the most, the children of the flesh, the rest, the lost, the
vessels of wrath, of dishonour, and the children of perdition?
(Rom 11:9; 1 Peter 2:8,9; Matt 10:16; 2 Sam 6:21; Psa 78:67,68;
John 15:16; 2 Cor 4:3; Rom 9:21,22; John 17:12).


CHAPTER 2

What Reprobation is.

Having thus shewed you that there is such a thing as a reprobation,
I come now to shew you what it is. Which that I may do to your
edification, I shall First shew you what this word reprobation
signifieth in the general, as it concerneth persons temporary and
visibly reprobate: Second, more particularly, as it concerneth
persons that are eternally and invisibly reprobate.

First, Generally, As it concerneth persons temporarily and visibly
reprobate, thus: To be reprobate is to be disapproved, void of
judgment, and rejected, &c. To be disapproved, that is, when the
word condemns them, either as touching the faith or the holiness
of the gospel; the which they must needs be, that are void of
spiritual and heavenly judgment in the mysteries of the kingdom;
a manifest token [that] they are rejected. And hence it is that
they are said to be reprobate or void of judgment concerning the
faith; reprobate or void of judgment touching every good work;
having a reprobate mind, to do those things that are not convenient,
either as to faith or manners. And hence it is again, that they
are also said to be rejected of God, cast away, and the like (2
Cor 13:6,7; 2 Tim 3:8; Titus 1:16; Rom 1:28; Jer 6:30; 1 Cor 9:27).

I call this temporary visible reprobation, because these appear,
and are detected by the word as such that are found under the
above-named errors, and so adjudged without the grace of God.
Yet it is possible for some of these, however for the present
disapproved, through the blessed acts and dispensations of grace,
not only to become visible saints, but also saved for ever. Who
doubts but that he who now by examining himself, concerning faith,
doth find himself, though under profession, graceless, may after
that, he seeing his woeful state, not only cry to God for mercy,
but find grace, and obtain mercy to help in time of need? though
it is true, that for the most part the contrary is fulfilled on
them.

Second, But to pass this, and more particularly to touch the
eternal invisible reprobation, which I shall thus hold forth: It
is to be passed by in, or left out of, God's election; yet so, as
considered upright. In which position you have these four things
considerable: 1. The act of God's election. 2. The negative of
that act. 3. The persons reached by that negative. And, 4. Their
qualification when thus reached by it.

1. For the first. This act of God in electing, it is a choosing
or fore-appointing of some infallibly unto eternal life, which he
also hath determined shall be brought to pass by the means that
should be made manifest and efficacious to that very end (Eph
1:3-5; 1 Peter 1:2).

2. Now the negative of this act is, a passing by, or a leaving
of those not concerned in this act; a leaving of them, I say,
without the bounds, and so the saving privileges of this act; as
it followeth by natural consequence, that because a man chooseth
but some, therefore he chooseth not all, but leaveth, as the
negative of that act, all others whatsoever. Wherefore, as I said
before, those not contained within this blessed act, are called
the rest besides the election. 'The election hath obtained it,
and the rest were blinded.'

3. The persons then that are contained under the negative of this
act, they are those, and those only, that pass through this wicked
world without the saving grace of God's elect; those, I say, that
miss the most holy faith, which they in time are blest withal,
who are fore-appointed unto glory.

4. And now for the qualification they were considered under, when
this act of reprobation laid hold upon them; to wit, They were
considered upright.

This is evident, From this consideration, that reprobation is God's
act, even the negative of his choosing or electing, and none of
the acts of God make any man a sinner. It is further evident by
the similitude that is taken from the carriage of the potter in
his making of his pots; for by this comparison the God of heaven
is pleased to shew unto us the nature of his determining in the
act of reprobation. 'Hath not the potter power over the clay, of
the same lump?' &c. (Rom 9:21). Consider a little, and you shall
see that these three things do necessarily fall in, to complete
the potter's action in every pot he makes.

(1.) A determination in his own mind what pot to make of this
or that piece of clay; a determination, I say, precedent to the
fashion of the pot; the which is true in the highest degree, in
him that is excellent in working; he determines the end, before
the beginning is perfected (Isa 41:22, 46:10). 'For this cause
[very purpose] have I raised thee up' (Exo 9:16).

(2.) The next thing considerable in the potter; it is the so
making of the pot, even as he determined; a vessel to honour, or
a vessel to dishonour. There is no confusion nor disappointment
under the hand of this eternal God, his work is perfect, and every
way doth answer to what he hath determined (Deut 32:4).

(3.) Observe again, That whether the vessel be to honour or to
dishonour, yet the potter makes it good, sound, and fit for service;
his fore-determining to make this a vessel to dishonour, hath no
persuasion at all with him to break or mar the pot: Which very
thing doth well resemble the state of man as under the act of
eternal reprobation, for 'God made man upright' (Eccl 7:29).

From these conclusions then,

Consider, 1. That the simple act of reprobation, it is a leaving
or passing by, not a cursing of the creature.

Consider, 2. Neither doth this act alienate the heart of God from
the reprobate, nor tie him up from loving, favouring, or blessing
of him; no, not from blessing of him with the gift of Christ, of
faith, of hope, and many other benefits. It only denieth them that
benefit, that will infallibly bring them to eternal life, and that
in despite of all opposition; it only denieth so to bless them as
the elect themselves are blessed. Abraham loved all the children
he had by all his wives, and gave them portions also; but his
choice blessing, as the fruit of his chiefest love, he reserved
for chosen Isaac (Gen 25:5,6).

Consider Lastly, The act of reprobation doth harm to no man,
neither means him any; nay, it rather decrees him upright, lets
him be made upright, and so be turned into the world.[2]


CHAPTER 3.

Of the Antiquity of Reprobation.

Having now proceeded so far as to shew you what reprobation
is, it will not be amiss if in this place I briefly shew you its
antiquity, even when it began its rise; the which you may gather
by these following particulars.

First, Reprobation is before the person cometh into the world,
or hath done good or evil: This is evident by that of Paul to the
Romans: 'For the children being not yet born, neither having done
any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election
might stand not of works, but of him that calleth; it was said unto
Rebecca, The elder shall serve the younger' (9:11). Here you find
twain in their mother's womb, and both receiving their destiny,
not only before they had done good or evil, but before they were
in a capacity to do it, they being yet unborn; their destiny,
I say, the one unto, the other not unto, the blessing of eternal
life; the one chose, the other refused; the one elect, the other
reprobate. The same also might be said of Ishmael and his brother
Isaac, both which did also receive their destiny before they came
into the world: for the promise that this Isaac should be the
heir, it was also before Ishmael was born, though he was elder by
fourteen years, or more, than his brother (Gen 15:4,5, 16:4,5,16,
17:25, 21:5). And it is yet further evident,

1. Because election is an act of grace; 'There is a remnant according
to the election of grace' (Rom 11:5). Which act of grace saw no
way so fit to discover its purity and independency, as by fastening
on the object before it came into the world; that being the state
in which at least no good were done, either to procure good from
God, or to eclipse and darken this precious act of grace. For
though it is true that no good thing that we have done before
conversion, can obtain the grace of election; yet the grace of
election then appeareth most, when it prevents[3] our doing good,
that we might be loved therefore: wherefore he saith again, 'That
the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of
works, but of him that calleth; it was said unto her, The elder
shall serve the younger' (Rom 9:11,12).

2. This is most agreeable to the nature of the promise of giving
seed to Abraham; which promise, as it was made before the child
was conceived, so it was fulfilled at the best time, for the
discovery of the act of grace, that could have been pitched upon:
At this time will I come (saith God) 'and Sarah shall have a son'
(Gen 18:14); which promise, because it carried in its bowels the
very grace of electing love, therefore it left out Ishmael, with
the children of Keturah: 'For in Isaac shall thy seed be called'
(Rom 4:16-19, 9:7).

3. This was the best and fittest way for the decrees to receive
sound bottom, even for God both to choose and refuse, before the
creature had done good or evil, and so before they came into the
world: 'That the purpose of God according to election might stand,'
saith he, therefore before the children were yet born, or had done
any good or evil, it was said unto her, &c. God's decree would for
ever want foundation, should it depend at all upon the goodness
and holiness either of men or angels; especially if it were to
stand upon that good that is wrought before conversion, yea, or
after conversion either. We find, by daily experience, how hard
and difficult it is, for even the holiest in the world, to bear
up and maintain their faith and love to God; yea, so hard, as not
at all to do it without continual supplies from heaven. How then
is it possible for any so to carry it before God, as to lay, by
this his holiness, a foundation for election, as to maintain that
foundation, and thereby to procure all those graces that infallibly
saveth the sinner? But now the choice, I say, being a choice of
grace, as is manifest, it being acted before the creature's birth;
here grace hath laid the cornerstone, and determined the means to
bring the work to perfection. Thus 'the foundation of God standeth
sure, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his' (2 Tim
2:19). That is, who he hath chosen, having excluded works, both
good and bad, and founded all in an unchangeable act of grace;
the negative whereof, is this harmless reprobation.

Second, But secondly, To step a little backward, and so to make
all sure: This act of reprobation was before the world began;
which therefore must needs confirm that which was said but now,
that they were, before they were born, both destinated before
they had done good or evil. This is manifest by that of Paul to
the Ephesians, at the beginning of his epistle; where, speaking
of Election, whose negative is reprobation, he saith, 'God hath
chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the world.' Nay
further, if you please, consider, that as Christ was ordained
to suffer before the foundation of the world, and as we that are
elected were chosen in him before the foundation of the world;
so it was also ordained we should know him, before the foundation
of the world; ordained that we should be holy before him in love,
before the foundation of the world; and that we in time should be
created in him to good works, and ordained before that we should
walk in them. Wherefore reprobation also, it being the negative of
electing love; that is, because God elected but some, therefore
he left the rest: these rest therefore must needs be of as ancient
standing under reprobation, as the chosen are under election;
both which, it is also evident, was before the world began. Which
serveth yet further to prove that reprobation could not be with
respect to this or the other sin, it being only a leaving them,
and that before the world, out of that free choice which he was
pleased to bless the other with. Even as the clay with which the
dishonourable vessel is made, did not provoke the potter, for the
sake of this or that impediment, therefore to make it so; but the
potter of his own will, of the clay of the same lump, of the clay
that is full as good as that of which he hath made the vessel to
honour, did make this and the other a vessel of dishonour, &c. (1
Peter 1:20,21; 1 Cor 2:7; Eph 1:3,4, 2:10).[4]


CHAPTER 4.

Of the causes of Reprobation.

Having thus in a word or two shewed the antiquity of Reprobation,
I now come in this place to shew you the cause thereof; for
doubtless this must stand a truth, That whatever God doth, there
is sufficient ground therefore, whether by us apprehended, or else
without our reach.

First then, It is caused from the very nature of God. There are two
things in God, from which, or by the virtue of which, all things
have their rise, to wit, the eternity of God in general, and the
eternal perfection of every one of his attributes in particular:
for as by the first, he must needs be before all things; so by
virtue of the second, must all things consist. And as he is before
all things, they having consistence by him; so also is he before
all states, or their causes, be they either good or bad, of
continuance or otherwise, he being the first without beginning,
&c., whereas all other things, with their causes, have rise,
dependance, or toleration of being from him (Col 1:17).

Hence it follows, that nothing, either person or cause, &c., can
by any means have a being, but first he knows thereof, allows
thereof, and decrees it shall be so. 'Who is he that saith, and
it cometh to pass, when the Lord commandeth it not?' (Lam 3:37).
Now then, because that reprobation, as well as election, are
subordinate to God; his will also, which is eternally perfect,
being most immediately herein concerned; it was impossible that
any should be reprobate, before God had both willed and decreed
it should be so. It is not the being of a thing that administers
matter of knowledge or foresight thereof to God, but the perfection
of his knowledge, wisdom, and power, &c., that giveth the thing
its being: God did not fore-decree there should be a world, because
he foresaw there would be one; but there must be one, because he had
before decreed there should be one. The same is true as touching
the case in hand: 'For this cause [very purpose] have I raised
thee up, for to shew in thee my power' (Exo 9:16; Rom 9:17).

Second, A second cause of eternal reprobation, is the exercise
of God's sovereignty; for if this is true, that there is nothing
either visible or invisible, whether in heaven or earth, but hath
its being from him: then it must most reasonably follow, that he
is therefore sovereign Lord, &c., and may also according to his
own will, as he pleaseth himself, both exercise and manifest the
same; being every whit absolute; and can do and may do whatsoever
his soul desireth: and indeed, good reason, for he hath not only
made them all, but 'for his pleasure they both were and are created'
(Rev 4:11).

Now the very exercise of this sovereignty produceth reprobation:
'Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he
will he hardeneth' (Rom 9:18). 'Hath not the potter power over the
clay, of the same lump?' And doth he not make his pots according
to his pleasure? Here therefore the mercy, justice, wisdom and
power of God, take liberty to do what they will; saying, 'My
counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure' (Isa 46:10;
Job 23:13; Dan 4:35; Isa 43:13).

Third, Another cause of eternal reprobation, is the act and working
of distinguishing love, and everlasting grace. God hath universal
love, and particular love; general love, and distinguishing love;
and so accordingly doth decree, purpose, and determine: from
general love, the extension of general grace and mercy: but from
that love that is distinguishing, peculiar grace and mercy: 'Was
not Esau Jacob's brother?' saith the Lord, 'yet I loved Jacob'
(Mal 1:2). Yet I loved Jacob, that is, with a better love, or
a love that is more distinguishing. As he further makes appear
in his answer to our father Abraham, when he prayed to God for
Ishmael: 'As for Ishmael, [saith he] I have heard thee: Behold,
I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful. But my covenant
will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee' (Gen
17:20,21). Touching which words, there are these things observable.

1. That God had better love for Isaac, than he had for his brother
Ishmael. Yet,

2. Not because Isaac had done more worthy and goodly deeds, for
Isaac was yet unborn.

3. This choice blessing could not be denied to Ishmael, because
he had disinherited himself by sin; for this blessing was entailed
to Isaac, before Ishmael had a being also (Rom 4:16-19; Gen 15:4,5,
chapter 16).

4. These things therefore must needs fall out through the working
of distinguishing love and mercy, which had so cast the business,
'that the purpose of God according to election might stand.'

Further, Should not God decree to shew distinguishing love and
mercy, as well as that which is general and common, he must not
discover his best love at all to the sons of men. Again, if he
should reveal and extend his best love to all the world in general,
then there would not be such a thing as love that doth distinguish;
for distinguishing love appeareth in separating between Isaac
and Ishmael, Jacob and Esau, the many called, and the few chosen.
Thus by virtue of distinguishing love, some must be reprobate:
for distinguishing love must leave some, both of the angels in
heaven, and the inhabitants of the earth; wherefore the decree
also that doth establish it, must needs leave some.

Fourth, Another cause of reprobation, Is God's willingness to
shew his wrath, and to make his power known. This is one of those
arguments that the holy apostle setteth against the most knotty
and strong objection that ever was framed against the doctrine of
eternal reprobation: 'Thou wilt say then unto me, [saith he] Why
doth he yet find fault?' For if it be his will that some should
be rejected, hardened, and perish, why then is he offended that
any sin against him; 'for who hath resisted his will?' Hold, saith
the apostle; stay a little here; first remember this, Is it meet
to say unto God, What doest thou? 'Shall the thing formed say
to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus? Hath not the
potter power over the clay, of the same lump,' &c. Besides, when
you have thought your worst, to wit, that the effects of reprobation
must needs be consummate in the eternal perdition of the creature;
yet again consider, 'What if God, willing to shew his wrath,' as
well as grace and mercy? And what if he, that he may so do, exclude
some from having share in that grace that would infallibly, against
all resistance, bring us safe unto eternal life? What then? Is he
therefore the author of your perishing, or his eternal reprobation
either? Do you not know that he may refuse to elect who he will,
without abusing of them? Also that he may deny to give them that
grace that would preserve them from sin, without being guilty of
their damnation? May he not, to shew his wrath, suffer 'with much
long-suffering' all that are 'the vessels of wrath,' by their own
voluntary will, to fit themselves for wrath and for destruction?
(Rom 9:19-22). Yea, might he not even in the act of reprobation,
conclude also to suffer them thus left, to fall from the state he
left them in, that is, as they were considered upright; and when
fallen, to bind them fast in chains of darkness unto the judgment
of the great day, but he must needs be charged foolishly? You
shall see in that day what a harmony and what a glory there will
be found in all God's judgments in the overthrow of the sinner;
also how clear the Lord will shew himself of having any working
hand in that which causeth eternal ruin; notwithstanding he hath
reprobated such, doth suffer them to sin, and that too, that he
might shew his wrath on the vessels of his wrath; the which I
also, after this next chapter, shall further clear up to you. As
'the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations,'
without approving of their miscarriages; so he also knoweth how
'to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished'
(2 Peter 2:9): yet never to deserve the least of blame for his
so reserving of them; though none herein can see his way, for he
alone knows how to do it.[5]


CHAPTER 5.

Of the Unchangeableness of Eternal Reprobation.

Many opinions have passed through the hearts of the sons of
men concerning reprobation; most of them endeavouring so to hold
it forth, as therewith they might, if not heal their conscience
slightly, yet maintain their own opinion, in their judgment,
of other things; still wringing, now the word this way, and anon
again that, for their purpose; also framing within their soul such
an imagination of God and his acts in eternity, as would suit with
such opinions, and so present all to the world. And the rather they
have with greatest labour strained unweariedly at this above many
other truths, because of the grim and dreadful face it carrieth in
most men's apprehensions. But none of these things, however they
may please the creature, can by any means in any measure, either
cause God to undo, unsay, or undetermine what he hath concerning
this, decreed and established.

First, Because they suit not with his nature, especially in
these foundation-acts: 'The foundation of God standeth sure' (2
Tim 2:19), even touching reprobation, 'that the purpose of God
according to election might stand' (Rom 9:11). 'I know [saith
Solomon] that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing
can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it,' &c. (Eccl 3:14).
'Hath he said, and shall he not do it? Hath he spoken, and shall
not make it good?' (Num 23:19). His decrees are composed according
to his eternal wisdom, established upon his unchangeable will,
governed by his knowledge, prudence, power, justice, and mercy,
and are brought to conclusion, on his part, in perfect holiness,
through the abiding of his most blessed truth and faithfulness: 'He
is the rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways are judgment:
a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he' (Deut
32:4).

Second, This decree is made sure by the number, measure, and bounds
of election; for election and reprobation do inclose all reasonable
creatures; that is, either the one or the other; election, those
that are set apart for glory; and reprobation, those left out of
this choice.

Now as touching the elect, they are by this decree confined to
that limited number of persons that must amount to the complete
making up the fulness of the mystical body of Christ; yea so
confined by this eternal purpose, that nothing can be diminished
from or added thereunto: and hence it is that they are called his
body and members in particular, 'the fulness of him that filleth
all in all' (Eph 1:23) and 'the measure of the stature of the
fulness of Christ' (Eph 4:13). Which body, considering him as the
head thereof, in conclusion maketh up one perfect man, and holy
temple for the Lord. These are called Christ's substance, inheritance
and lot (Psa 16); and are said to be booked, marked, and sealed
with God's most excellent knowledge, approbation and liking (2
Tim 2:19). As Christ said to his Father, 'Thine eyes did see my
substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members
were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet
there was none of them' (Psa 139:16). This being thus, I say, it
is in the first place impossible that any of those members should
miscarry, for 'Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's
elect?' (Rom 8:33) and because they are as to number every way
sufficient, being his body, and so by their completing to be made
a perfect man: therefore all others are rejected, that the 'purpose
of God according to election might stand' (Rom 9:11). Besides,
it would not only argue weakness in the decree, but monstrousness
in the body, if after this, any appointed should miscarry, or any
besides them be added to them (Matt 24:24).

Thirdly, Nay further, that all may see how punctual, exact, and
to a tittle this decree of election is, God hath not only as to
number and quantity confined the persons, but also determined and
measured, and that before the world, the number of the gifts and
graces that are to be bestowed on these members in general; and
also what graces and gifts to be bestowed on this or that member
in particular: He 'hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings--in
Christ, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation
of the word' (Eph 1:3,4). And bestoweth them in time upon us,
'According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ
Jesus our Lord' (Eph 3:11). He hath given to the eye, the grace
that belongeth to the eye; and to the hand that which he also hath
appointed for it. And so to every other member of the body elect,
he doth deal out to them their determined measure of grace and
gifts most fit for their place and office. Thus is the decree
established, both of the saved, and also the non-elect (Rom 12:3;
Eph 4:16; Col 2:19; Eph 4:12,13).

Fourth, But again, another thing that doth establish this decree
of eternal reprobation, is the weakness that sin, in the fall,
and since, hath brought all reprobates into: For though it be most
true, that sin is no cause of eternal reprobation; yet seeing sin
hath seized on the reprobate, it cannot be but thereby the decree
must needs be the faster fixed. If the king, for this or the other
weighty reason, doth decree not to give this or that man, who yet
did never offend him, a place in his privy chamber; if this man
after this shall be infected with the plague, this rather fastens
than loosens the king's decree. As the angels that were left out
of God's election, by reason of the sin they committed after, are
so far off from being by that received into God's decree, that
they are therefore bound for it in chains of everlasting darkness
to the judgment of the great day.


CHAPTER 6.

Whether to be reprobated be the same with being appointed before-hand
unto eternal condemnation? If not, how do they differ? Also whether
reprobation be the cause of condemnation?

It hath been the custom of ignorant men much to quarrel at eternal
reprobation, concluding, for want of knowledge in the mystery of
God's will, that if he reprobate any from eternity, he had as good
have said, I will make this man to damn him; I will decree this
man, without any consideration, to the everlasting pains of hell.
When in very deed, for God to reprobate, and to appoint before-hand to
eternal condemnation, are two distinct things, properly relating
to two distinct attributes, arising from two distinct causes.

First, They are two distinct things: Reprobation, a simple leaving
of the creature out of the bounds of God's election; but to appoint
to condemnation is to bind them over to everlasting punishment.
Now there is a great difference between my refusing to make of
such a tree a pillar in my house, and of condemning it unto the
fire to be burned.

Second, As to the attributes; reprobation respects God's sovereignty;
but to appoint to condemnation, his justice (Rom 9:18; Gen 18:25).

Third, As to the causes; sovereignty being according to the will
of God, but justice according to the sin of man. For God, though
he be the only sovereign Lord, and that to the height of perfection;
yet he appointeth no man to the pains of everlasting fire, merely
from sovereignty, but by the rule of justice: God damneth not the
man because he is a man, but a sinner; and fore-appoints him to
that place and state, by fore-seeing of him wicked (Rom 1:18,19;
Col 3:6).

Again, As reprobation is not the same with fore-appointing to
eternal condemnation; so neither is it the cause thereof.

If it be the cause, then it must either, 1. Leave him infirm.
Or, 2. Infuse sin into him. Or, 3. Take from him something that
otherwise would keep him upright. 4. Or both license Satan to
tempt, and the reprobate to close in with the temptation. But it
doth none of these; therefore it is not the cause of the condemnation
of the creature.

That it is not the cause of sin, it is evident,

1. Because the elect are as much involved therein, as those that
are passed by.

2. It leaveth him not infirm; for he is by an after-act, to wit,
of creation, formed perfectly upright.

3. That reprobation infuseth no sin, appeareth, because it is the
act of God.

4. That it taketh nothing, that good is, from him, is also manifest,
it being only a leaving of him.

5. And that it is not by this act that Satan is permitted to tempt,
or the reprobate to sin, is manifest; because as Christ was tempted,
so the elect fall as much into the temptation, at least many of
them, as many of those that are reprobate: whereas if these things
came by reprobation, then the reprobate would be only concerned
therein. All which will be further handled in these questions yet
behind.

Object. From what hath been said, there is concluded this at least,
That God hath infallibly determined, and that before the world,
the infallible damnation of some of his creatures: for if God hath
before the world [was made] bound some over to eternal punishment,
and that as you say, for sin; then this determination must either
be fallible or infallible; not fallible, for then your other position
of the certainty of the number of God's elect, is shaken; unless
you hold that there may be a number that shall neither go to heaven
nor hell. Well then, if God hath indeed determined, fore-determined,
that some must infallibly perish; doth not this his determination
lay a necessity on the reprobate to sin, that he may be damned;
for, no sin, no damnation; that is your own argument.

Ans. That God hath ordained (Jude 4), the damnation of some of
his creatures, it is evident; but whether this his determination
be positive and absolute, there is the question: for the better
understanding whereof, I shall open unto you the variety of God's
determinations, and their nature, as also rise.

The determinations of God touching the destruction of the creature,
they are either ordinary or extraordinary: those I count ordinary
that were commonly pronounced by the prophets and apostles, &c.,
in their ordinary way of preaching; to the end men might be affected
with the love of their own salvation: now these either bound or
loosed, but as the condition or qualification was answered by the
creature under sentence, and no otherwise (1 Sam 12:25; Isa 1:20;
Matt 18:3; Luke 13:1-3; Rom 2:8,9, 8:13, 11:23; 1 Cor 6:9-11).

Again, These extraordinary, though they respect the same conditions,
yet they are not grounded immediately upon them, but upon the
infallible fore-knowledge and fore-sight of God, and are thus
distinguished. First the ordinary determination, it stands but
at best upon a supposition that the creature may continue in sin,
and admits of a possibility that it may not; but the extraordinary
stands upon an infallible fore-sight that the creature will continue
in sin; wherefore this must needs be positive, and as infallible
as God himself.

Again, These two determinations are also distinguished thus: the
ordinary is applicable to the elect as well as to the reprobate,
but the other to the reprobate only. It is proper to say even to
the elect themselves, 'He that believeth shall be saved, and he
that believeth not shall be damned'; but not to say to them, These
are appointed to UTTER destruction, or that they shall utterly
perish in their own corruptions; or that for them is reserved the
blackness of darkness for ever (1 Kings 20:42; 2 Peter 2:12; Jude
13).

So then, though God by these determinations doth not lay some
under irrecoverable condemnation, yet by one of them he doth; as
is further made out thus:

1. God most perfectly foreseeth the final impenitency of those that
so die, from the beginning to the end of the world (Prov 15:11;
Psa 139:2; Isa 46:10).

2. Now from this infallible foresight, it is most easy and rational
to conclude, and that positively, the infallible overthrow of
every such creature. Did I infallibly foresee that this or that
man would cut out his heart in the morning, I might infallibly
determine his death before night.

Object. But still the question is, Whether God by this his determination
doth not lay a necessity on the creature to sin? For, no sin, no
condemnation: this is true by your own assertion.

Ans. No, by no means: for,

1. Though it be true, that sin must of absolute necessity go
before the infallible condemnation and overthrow of the sinner;
and that it must also be pre-considered by God; yet it needs not
lay a necessity upon him to sin: for let him but alone to do what
he will, and the determination cannot be more infallible than the
sin, which is the cause of its execution.

2. As it needs not, so it doth not: for this positive determination is
not grounded upon what God will effect, but on what the creature
will; and that not through the instigation of God, but the
instigation of the devil. What? might not I, if I most undoubtedly
foresaw that such a tree in my garden would only cumber the ground,
notwithstanding reasonable means, might not I, I say, from hence
determine, seven years before, to cut it down, and burn it in the
fire, but I must, by so determining, necessitate this tree to be
fruitless? the case in hand is the very same. God therefore may
most positively determine the infallible damnation of his creature,
and yet not at all necessitate the creature to sin, that he might
be damned.

Object. But how is this similitude pertinent? For God did not only
foresee sin would be the destruction of the creature, but let it
come into the world, and so destroy the creature. If you, as you
foresee the fruitlessness of your tree, should withal see that
which makes it so, and that too before it makes it so, and yet let
the impediment come and make it so; are not you now the cause of
the unfruitfulness of that tree which you have before condemned to
the fire to be burned? for God might have chose whether he would
have let Adam sin, and so sin to have got into the world by him.

Ans. Similitudes never answer every way; if they be pertinent to
that for which they are intended, it is enough; and to that it
answereth well, being brought to prove no more but the natural
consequence of a true and infallible foresight. And now as to
what is objected further, as that God might have chose whether
sin should have come into the world by Adam, to the destruction
of so many: to that I shall answer,

1. That sin could not have come into the world without God's
permission, it is evident, both from the perfection of his foresight
and power.

2. Therefore all the means, motives, and inducements thereunto,
must also by him be not only foreseen, but permitted.

3. Yet so, that God will have the timing, proceeding, bounding,
and ordering thereof, at his disposal: 'Surely the wrath of man
shall praise thee, and the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain'
(Psa 76:10; 1 Kings 22:20-22; John 8:20; Luke 22:51,52).

4. Therefore it must needs come into the world, not without, but
by the knowledge of God; not in despite of him, but by his suffering
of it.

Object. But how then is he clear from having a hand in the death
of him that perisheth?

Ans. Nothing is more sure than that God could have kept sin out
of the world, if it had been his will; and this is also as true,
that it never came into the world with his liking and compliance;
and for this, you must consider that sin came into the world by
two steps:

1. By being offered. 2. By prevailing.

Touching the first of these, God without the least injury to any
creature in heaven or earth, might not only suffer it, but so far
countenance the same: that is, so far forth as for trial only:
as it is said of Abraham; 'God tempted Abraham' to slay his only
son (Gen 22:1), and led Christ by the Spirit into the wilderness
to be tempted of the devil (Mark 1:12; Luke 4:1). This is done
without any harm at all; nay, it rather produceth good; for it
tends to discover sincerity, to exercise faith in, and love to his
Creator; also to put him in mind of the continual need he hath of
depending on his God for the continuation of help and strength,
and to provoke to prayers to God, whenever so engaged (Deut 8:1-3;
1 Peter 1:7; Heb 5:7; Matt 26:22,41).

Object. But God did not only admit that sin should be offered
for trial, and there to stay; but did suffer it to prevail, and
overcome the world.

Ans. Well, this is granted: but yet consider,

1. God did neither suffer it, nor yet consent it should, but under
this consideration; If Adam, upright Adam, gave way thereto, by
forsaking his command, 'In the day that thou eatest thereof thou
shalt surely die' (Gen 2:17, 3:3). Which Adam did, not because
God did compel him or persuade him to it, but voluntarily of his
own mind, contrary to his God's command: so then, God by suffering sin
to break into the world, did it rather in judgment, as disliking
Adam's act, and as a punishment to man for listening to the tempter;
and as a discovery of his anger at man's disobedience; than to
prove that he is guilty of the misery of his creature.

2. Consider also, that when God permitted sin for trial, it was,
when offered first, to them only who were upright, and had sufficient
strength to resist it.

3. They were by God's command to the contrary, driven to no strait
to tempt them to incline to Satan: 'Of every tree of the garden
thou mayest freely at,' saith God; only let this alone.

4. As touching the beauty and goodness that was in the object unto
which they were allured; What was it? Was it better than God? Yea,
was it better than the tree of life? For from that they were not
exempted till after they had sinned. Did not God know best what
was best to do them good?

5. Touching him that persuaded them to do this wicked act; was
his word more to be valued for truth, more to be ventured on for
safety, or more to be honoured for the worthiness of him that
spake, than was his that had forbad it? The one being the devil,
with a lie, and to kill them; the other being God, with his truth,
and to preserve them safe.

Quest. But was not Adam unexpectedly surprised? Had he notice
beforehand, and warning of the danger? For God foresaw the business.

Ans. Doubtless God was fair and faithful to his creature in this
thing also; as clearly doth appear from these considerations.

1. The very commandment that God gave him, fore-bespake him well
to look about him; and did indeed insinuate that he was likely to
be tempted.

2. It is yet more evident, because God doth even tell him of the
danger; 'In the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely
die.'

3. Nay God by speaking to him of the very tree that was to be
forborn, telling him also where it stood, that he might the better
know it; did in effect expressly say unto him, Adam, if thou
be tempted, it will be about that tree, and the fruit thereof:
wherefore if thou findest the tempter there, then beware thy life.

(1.) To conclude then: though sin did not come into the world
without God's sufferance, yet it did without his liking: God suffered
also Cain to kill his brother, and Ishmael to mock at Isaac, but
he did not like the same (Gen 4:9-11; Gal 4:30).

(2.) Therefore though God was first in concluding sin should be
offered to the world; yet man was the first that consented to a
being overcome thereby.

(3.) Then, Though God did fore-determine that sin should enter,
yet it was not but with respect to certain terms and conditions,
which yet was not to be enforced by virtue of the determination,
but permitted to be completed by the voluntary inclination of a
perfect and upright man. And in that the determination was most
perfectly infallible, it was through the foresight of the undoubted
inclination of this good and upright person.

Quest. But might not God have kept Adam from inclining, if he
would?

Ans. What more certain? But yet consider,

1. Adam being now an upright man, he was able to have kept himself,
had he but looked to it as he should and might.

2. This being so, if God had here stept in, he had either added
that which had been needless, and so had not obtained thankfulness;
or else had made the strength of Adam useless, yea his own workmanship
in so creating him, superfluous; or else by consequence imperfect.

(3.) If he had done so, he had taken Adam from his duty, which was
to trust and believe his Maker; he had also made void the end of
the commandment, which was to persuade to watchfulness, diligence,
sobriety, and contentedness; yea, and by so doing would not only
himself have tempted Adam to transgression, even to lay aside the
exercise of that strength that God had already given him; but should
have become the pattern, or the first father to all looseness,
idleness, and neglect of duty. Which would also not only have
been an ill example to Adam to continue to neglect so reasonable
and wholesome duties, but would have been to himself an argument
of defence to retort upon his God, when he had come at another
time to reckon with him for his misdemeanours.[6]

Many other weighty reasons might here be further added for God's
vindication in this particular, but at this time let these suffice.


CHAPTER 7.

Whether any under Eternal Reprobation have just cause to quarrel
with God for not electing of them?

That the answer to this question may be to edification, recall
again what I have before asserted; to wit, That for a man to
be left out of God's election, and to be made a sinner, is two
things; and again, For a man to be not elect, and to be condemned
to hell-fire, is two things also. Now I say, if non-election
makes no man a sinner, and if it appoints no man to condemnation
neither, then what ground hath any reprobate to quarrel with God
for not electing of him? Nay, further, reprobation considereth him
upright, leaveth him upright, and so turneth him into the world;
what wrong doth God do him, though he hath not elected him? What
reason hath he that is left in this case to quarrel against his
Maker?

If thou say, because God hath not chosen them, as well as chosen
others: I answer, 'Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest
against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it,
Why hast thou made me thus?' (Rom 9:20). 'Behold, as the clay is
in the potter's hand, so are ye in my hand, O house of Israel,'
saith the Lord God (Jer 18:6). So then, if I should say no more but
that God is the only Lord and Creator, and that by his sovereignty
he hath power to dispose of them according to his pleasure, either
to choose or to refuse, according to the counsel of his own will,
who could object against him and be guiltless? 'He giveth not
account of any of his matters' (Job 33:13). 'And what his soul
desireth, even that he doeth' (Job 23:13).

Again, God is wiser than man, and therefore can shew a reason for
what he acts and does, both when and where at present thou seest
none. Shall God the only wise, be arraigned at the bar of thy
blind reason, and there be judged and condemned for his acts done
in eternity? Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord, 'or who
hath been his counsellor?' (Rom 11:34). Do you not know that he
is far more above us, than we are above our horse or mule that is
without understanding? 'Great things doeth he, which we cannot
comprehend' (Job 37:5). 'Great things and unsearchable, marvellous
things without number' (Job 5:9).

But, I say, should we take it well if our beast should call
us to account for this and the other righteous act, and judge us
unrighteous, and our acts ridiculous, and all because it sees no
reason for our so doing? Why, we are as beasts before God (Psa
73:22).

But again, to come yet more close to the point: the reprobate
quarrels with God, because he hath not elected him; well, but is
not God the master of his own love? And is not his will the only
rule of his mercy? And may he not, without he give offence to thee,
lay hold by electing love and mercy on whom himself pleaseth? Must
thy reason, nay, thy lust, be the ruler, orderer, and disposer of
his grace? 'Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine
own?' saith he, 'Is thine eye evil, because I am good?' (Matt
20:15).

Further, What harm doth God to any reprobate, by not electing of
him; he was, as hath been said, considered upright, so formed in
the act of creation, and so turned into the world: indeed he was
not elected, but hath that taken anything from him? No, verily,
but leaveth him in good condition: there is good, and better, and
best of all; he that is in a good estate, though others through
free grace are in a far better, hath not any cause to murmur either
with him that gave him such a place, or at him that is placed above
him. In a word, reprobation maketh no man personally a sinner,
neither doth election make any man personally righteous. It is the
consenting to sin that makes a man a sinner; and the imputation of
grace and righteousness that makes [men] gospelly and personally
just and holy.

But again, seeing it is God's act to leave some out of the bounds
of his election, it must needs be, therefore, positively good: Is
that then which is good in itself made sin unto thee? God forbid:
God doth not evil by leaving this or that man out of his electing
grace, though he choose others to eternal life, through Jesus
Christ our Lord. Wherefore there is not a reprobate that hath any
cause, and therefore no just cause, to quarrel with his Maker,
for not electing of him.

And that, besides what hath been spoken, if you consider,

1. For God to elect, is an act of sovereign grace; but to pass
by, or to refuse so to do, is an act of sovereign power, not of
injustice.

2. God might therefore have chosen whether he would have elected
any, or so many or few; and also which and where he would.

3. Seeing then that all things are at his dispose, he may fasten
electing mercy where he pleaseth; and other mercy, if he will, to
whom and when he will.

4. Seeing also that the least of mercies are not deserved by the
best of sinners; men, instead of quarrelling against the God of
grace, because they have not what they list, should acknowledge
they are unworthy of their breath; and also should confess that
God may give mercy where he pleaseth, and that too, both which
or what, as also to whom, and when he will; and yet be good, and
just, and very gracious still: Nay, Job saith, 'He taketh away,
who can hinder him? Who will say unto him, What doest thou?' (Job
9:12).

The will of God is the rule of all righteousness, neither knoweth
he any other way by which he governeth and ordereth any of
his actions. Whatsoever God doth, it is good because he doth it;
whether it be to give grace, or to detain it; whether in choosing
or refusing. The consideration of this, made the holy men of old
ascribe righteousness to their Maker, even then when yet they
could not see the reason of his actions. They would rather stand
amazed, and wonder at the heights and depths of his unsearchable
judgments, than quarrel at the strange and most obscure of them
(Job 34:10-12, 36:3, 37:23; Jer 12:1; Rom 11:33).

God did not intend that all that ever he would do, should be known
to every man, no nor yet to the wise and prudent. It is as much
a duty sometimes to stay ourselves and wonder, and to confess our
ignorance in many things of God, as it is to do other things that
are duty without dispute. So then, let poor dust and ashes forbear
to condemn the Lord, because he goeth beyond them; and also they
should beware they speak not wickedly for him, though it be, as
they think, to justify his actions. 'The Lord is righteous in all
his ways, and holy in all his works' (Psa 145:17; Matt 11:25; 1
Cor 2:8; Job 13:6-8).[7]


CHAPTER 8.

Whether Eternal reprobation in itself, or in its doctrine, be in
very deed an hindrance to any man in seeking the salvation of his
soul.

In my discourse upon this question, I must entreat the reader to
mind well what is premised in the beginning of the former chapter,
which is, That reprobation makes no man a sinner, appoints no
man to condemnation, but leaveth him upright after all. So then,
though God doth leave this most of men without the bounds of his
election, his so doing is neither in itself, nor yet its doctrine,
in very deed, an hindrance to any man in seeking the salvation of
his soul.

First, It hindreth not in itself, as is clear by the ensuing
considerations:--

1. That which hindreth him is the weakness that came upon him by
reason of sin. Now God only made the man, but man's listening to
Satan made him a sinner, which is the cause of all his weakness:
this therefore is it that hindreth him, and that also disenableth
him in seeking the salvation of his soul. 'Let no man say when he
is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with
evil, neither tempteth he any man' (James 1:13). 'God made man
upright; but they have sought out many inventions' (Eccl 7:29;
Eze 16:30; Hosea 13:9, 14:1; Gen 3:8-11).

2. It hindreth not in itself, for it taketh not anything from a
man that would help him, might it continue with him; it takes not
away the least part of his strength, wisdom, courage, innocency,
or will to good; all these were lost by the fall, in that day when
he died the death. Nay, reprobation under some consideration did
rather establish all these upon the reprobate; for as it decrees
him left, so left upright. Wherefore man's hindrance cometh on him
from other means, even by the fall, and not by the simple act of
eternal reprobation (Gen 3).

3. As reprobation hindreth not either of these two ways, so neither
is it from this simple act that Satan is permitted either to tempt
them, that they might be tried, or that they might be overthrown.

(1.) It is not by this act that Satan is permitted to tempt them
that they might be tried; because then the Son of God himself must
be reached by this reprobation; he being tempted by the devil as
much, if not more than any. Yea, and then must every one of the
elect be under eternal reprobation; for they also, and that after
their conversion, are greatly assaulted by him. 'Many are the
troubles of the righteous,' &c. (Matt 4:1,2; Heb 2:17, 4:15).

(2.) Neither is it from the act of reprobation that sin hath
entered the world, no more than from election, because those under
the power of election did not only fall at first, but do still
generally as foully, before conversion, as the reprobate himself.
Whereas, if either the temptation, or the fall, were by virtue of
reprobation, then the reprobates, and they only, should have been
tempted, and have fallen. The temptation then, and the fall, doth
come from other means, and so the hindrance of the reprobate,
than from eternal reprobation. For the temptation, the fall and
hindrance being universal, but the act of reprobation particular,
the hindrance must needs come from such a cause as taketh hold on
all men, which indeed is the fall; the cause of which was neither
election nor reprobation, but man's voluntary listening to the
tempter (Rom 3:9).

(3.) It is yet far more evident that reprobation hindreth no man
from seeking the salvation of his soul: because notwithstanding all
that reprobation doth, yet God giveth to divers of the reprobates
great encouragements thereto; to wit, the tenders of the gospel
in general, not excluding any; great light also to understand it,
with many a sweet taste of the good word of God, and the powers of
the world to come; he maketh them sometimes also to be partakers
of the Holy Ghost, and admitteth many of them into fellowship
with his elect; yea, some of them to be rulers, teachers, and
governors in his house: all which, without doubt, both are and
ought to be great encouragements even to the reprobates themselves,
to seek the salvation of their souls (Matt 11:28; Rev 22:17; Heb
6:4,5; Matt 25:1,2; Acts 1:16,17).

Second, As it hindreth not in itself, so it hindreth not by its
doctrine: for, all that this doctrine saith is, that some are left
out of God's election, as considered upright. Now this doctrine
cannot hinder any man. For,

1. No man still stands upright.

2. Though it saith some are left, yet it points at no man, it
nameth no man, it binds all faces in secret. So then, if it hinder,
it hindreth all, even the elect as well as reprobate; for the
reprobate hath as much ground to judge himself elect, as the very
elect himself hath, before he be converted, being both alike in a
state of nature and unbelief, and both alike visibly liable to the
curse, for the breach of the commandment. Again, As they are equals
here, so also have they ground alike to close in with Christ and
live; even the open, free, and full invitation of the gospel, and
promise of life and salvation, by the faith of Jesus Christ (Eph
2:1,2; Rom 3:9; John 3:16; 2 Cor 5:19-21; Rev 21:6, 22:17).

3. It is evident also by experience, that this doctrine doth not,
in deed, neither can it hinder any (this doctrine I mean, when
both rightly stated and rightly used) because many who have been
greatly afflicted about this matter, have yet at last had comfort;
which comfort, when they have received it, hath been to them as
an argument that the thing they feared before, was not because of
reprobation rightly stated; but its doctrine much abused was the
cause of their affliction: and had they had the same light at
first they received afterwards, their troubles then would soon
have fled, as also now they do. Wherefore discouragement comes
from want of light, because they are not skilful in the word
of righteousness: for had the discouragement at first been true,
which yet it could not be, unless the person knew by name himself
under eternal reprobation, which is indeed impossible, then his
light would have pinched him harder; light would rather have fastened
this his fear, than at all have rid him of it (Heb 5:12-14).

Indeed the scripture saith, the word is to some the savour of death
unto death, when to others the savour of life unto life. But mark,
it is not this doctrine in particular, if so much as some other,
that doth destroy the reprobate. It was respited at which Pharaoh
hardened his heart; and the grace of God that the reprobates of
old did turn into lasciviousness. Yea, Christ the Saviour of the
world, is a stumbling-block unto some, and a rock of offence unto
others. But yet again, consider that neither HE, nor any of God's
doctrines, are so simply, and in their own true natural force and
drift: for they beget no unbelief, they provoke to no wantonness,
neither do they in the least encourage to impenitency; all this
comes from that ignorance and wickedness that came by the fall:
Wherefore it is by reason of that also, that they stumble, and
fall, and grow weak, and are discouraged, and split themselves,
either at the doctrine of reprobation, or at any other truth of
God (Exo 8:15; Jude 4:1; 1 Peter 2:8).

Lastly, To conclude as I began, there is no man while in this world,
that doth certainly know that he is left out of the electing love
of the great God; neither hath he any word in the whole bible, to
persuade him so to conclude and believe; for the scriptures hold
forth salvation to the greatest of sinners. Wherefore, though
the act of reprobation were far more harsh, and its doctrine also
more sharp and severe, yet it cannot properly be said to hinder
any. It is a foolish thing in any to be troubled with those
things which they have no ground to believe concerns themselves;
especially when the latitude of their discouragement is touching
their own persons only. 'The secret things belong unto the Lord
our God' (Deut 29:29). Indeed every one of the words of God ought
to put us upon examination, and into a serious enquiry of our
present state and condition, and how we now do stand for eternity; to
wit, whether we are ready to meet the Lord, or how it is with us.
Yet, when search is fully made, and the worst come unto the worst,
the party can find himself no more than the chief of sinners, not
excluded from the grace of God tendered in the gospel; not from an
invitation, nay a promise, to be embraced and blest, if he comes
to Jesus Christ. Wherefore he hath no ground to be discouraged by
the doctrine of reprobation (1 Tim 1:15; Acts 3:19; 2 Chron 33;
John 7:37, 6:37; Mark 2:17).


CHAPTER 9.

Whether God would indeed and in truth, that the gospel, with the
grace thereof, should be tendered to those that yet he hath bound
up under Eternal Reprobation?

To this question I shall answer,

First, In the language of our Lord, 'Go preach the gospel unto
every creature' (Mark 16:15); and again, 'Look unto me, and be
ye saved; all ye ends of the earth' (Isa 45:22). 'And whosoever
will, let him take the water of life freely' (Rev 22:17). And the
reason is, because Christ died for all, 'tasted death for every
man' (2 Cor 5:15; Heb 2:9); is 'the Saviour of the world' (1 John
4:14), and the propitiation for the sins of the whole world.

Second, I gather it from those several censures that even every
one goeth under, that doth not receive Christ, when offered in the
general tenders of the gospel; 'He that believeth not,--shall be
damned' (Mark 16:16); 'He that believeth not God hath made him
a liar, because he believeth not the record that God gave of his
son' (1 John 5:10); and, Woe unto thee Capernaum, 'Woe unto thee
Chorazin! woe unto thee Bethsaida!' (Matt 11:21) with many other
sayings, all which words, with many other of the same nature,
carry in them a very great argument to this very purpose; for if
those that perish in the days of the gospel, shall have, at least,
their damnation heightened, because they have neglected and refused
to receive the gospel, it must needs be that the gospel was with
all faithfulness to be tendered unto them; the which it could not
be, unless the death of Christ did extend itself unto them (John
3:16; Heb 2:3); for the offer of the gospel cannot, with God's
allowance, be offered any further than the death of Jesus Christ
doth go; because if that be taken away, there is indeed no gospel,
nor grace to be extended. Besides, if by every creature, and the
like, should be meant only the elect, then are all the persuasions
of the gospel to no effect at all; for still the unconverted,
who are here condemned for refusing of it, they return it as fast
again: I do not know I am elect, and therefore dare not come to
Jesus Christ; for if the death of Jesus Christ, and so the general
tender of the gospel, concern the elect alone; I, not knowing
myself to be one of that number, am at a mighty plunge; nor know
I whether is the greater sin, to believe, or to despair: for I say
again, if Christ died only for the elect, &c. then, I not knowing
myself to be one of that number, dare not believe the gospel,
that holds forth his blood to save me; nay, I think with safety
may not, until I first do know I am elect of God, and appointed
thereunto.

Third, God the Father, and Jesus Christ his Son, would have all
men whatever, invited by the gospel to lay hold of life by Christ,
whether elect or reprobate; for though it be true, that there is
such a thing as election and reprobation, yet God, by the tenders
of the gospel in the ministry of his word, looks upon men under
another consideration, to wit, as sinners; and as sinners invites
them to believe, lay hold of, and embrace the same. He saith not
to his ministers, Go preach to the elect, because they are elect;
and shut out others, because they are not so: But, Go preach the
gospel to sinners as sinners; and as they are such, go bid them
come to me and live. And it must needs be so, otherwise the preacher
could neither speak in faith, nor the people hear in faith. First,
the preacher could not speak in faith, because he knoweth not the
elect from the reprobate; nor they again hear in faith, because,
as unconverted, they would be always ignorant of that also. So
then, the minister neither knowing whom he should offer life unto,
nor yet the people which of them are to receive it; how could
the word now be preached in faith with power? And how could the
people believe and embrace it? But now the preacher offering mercy
in the gospel to sinners, as they are sinners, here is way made
for the word to be spoke in faith, because his hearers are sinners;
yea, and encouragement also for the people to receive and close
therewith, they understanding they are sinners: 'Christ Jesus came
into the world to save sinners' (1 Tim 1:15; Luke 24:46,47).

Fourth, The gospel must be preached to sinners as they are sinners,
without distinction of elect or reprobate; because neither the
one nor yet the other, as considered under these simple acts, are
fit subjects to embrace the gospel: for neither the one act, nor
yet the other, doth make either of them sinners; but the gospel
is to be tendered to men as they are sinners, and personally under
the curse of God for sin: wherefore to proffer grace to the elect
because they are elect, it is to proffer grace and mercy to them,
as not considering them as sinners. And, I say, to deny it to the
reprobate, because he is not elected, it is not only a denial of
grace to them that have no need thereof, but also before occasion
is given on their part, for such a dispensation. And I say again,
therefore, to offer Christ and grace to man elect, as simply so
considered, this administers to him no comfort at all, he being
here no sinner; and so engageth not the heart at all to Jesus
Christ; for that comes in, and is effected on them as they are
sinners. Yea, to deny the gospel also to the reprobate, because
he is not elect, it will not trouble him at all; for saith he, So
I am not a sinner, and so do not need a Saviour. But now, because
the elect have no need of grace in Christ by the gospel, but as
they are sinners; nor the reprobates cause to refuse it, but as
they are sinners; therefore Christ by the word of the gospel, is
to be proffered to both, without considering elect or reprobate,
even as they are sinners. 'The whole have no need of the physician,
but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but
sinners to repentance' (Mark 2:17; 2 Cor 5:14,15; Luke 7:47).

Thus you see the gospel is to be tendered to all in general, as
well to the reprobate as to the elect, TO SINNERS AS SINNERS; and
so are they to receive it, and to close with the tenders thereof.[8]


CHAPTER 10.

Seeing then that the grace of God in the gospel, is by that to
be proffered to sinners, as sinners; as well to the reprobate as
the elect; Is it possible for those who indeed are not elect, to
receive it, and be saved?

To this question I shall answer several things: but first I shall
shew you what that grace is, that is tendered in the gospel; and
secondly, what it is to receive it and be saved.

First then, The grace that is offered to sinners as sinners,
without respect to this or that person, it is a sufficiency of
righteousness, pardoning grace, and life, laid up in the person
of Christ, held forth in the exhortation and word of the gospel,
and promised to be theirs that receive it; yea, I say, in so
universal a tender, that not one is by it excluded or checked in
the least, but rather encouraged, if he hath the least desire to
life; yea, it is held forth to beget both desires and longings
after the life thus laid up in Christ, and held forth by the
gospel (John 1:16; Col 1:19,23; 1 John 5:11,12; Acts 13:38,39;
Rom 10:12-14, 16:25,26).

Secondly, To receive this grace thus tendered by the gospel, it
is,

1. To believe it is true.

2. To receive it heartily and unfeignedly through faith. And,

3. To let it have its natural sway, course and authority in the
soul, and that in that measure, as to bring forth the fruits of
good living in heart, word, and life, both before God and man.

Now then to the question.

Is it possible that this tender, thus offered to the reprobate,
should by him be thus received and embraced, and he live thereby?

To which I answer in the negative. Nor yet for the elect themselves,
I mean as considered dead in trespasses and sins, which is the state
of all men, elect as well as reprobate. So then, though there be
a sufficiency of life and righteousness laid up in Christ for all
men, and this tendered by the gospel to them without exception;
yet sin coming in between the soul and the tender of this grace,
it hath in truth disabled all men, and so, notwithstanding this
tender, they continue to be dead. For the gospel, I say, coming in
word only, saveth no man, because of man's impediment; wherefore
those that indeed are saved by this gospel, the word comes not to
them in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost; is
mixed with faith even with the faith of the operation of God, by
whose exceeding great and mighty power they are raised from this
death of sin, and enabled to embrace the gospel. Doubtless, all
men being dead in trespasses and sins, and so captivated under the
power of the devil, the curse of the law, and shut up in unbelief;
it must be the power of God, yea the exceeding greatness of that
power that raiseth the soul from this condition, to receive the
holy gospel (Eph 2:1-3; 1 Thess 1:5,6; Col 2:12; Heb 4:1,2; Eph
1:18,19, &c.).

For man by nature, (consider him at best), can see no more, nor do
no more than what the principles of nature understands and helps
to do; which nature being below the discerning of things truly,
spiritually, and savingly good, it must needs fall short of receiving,
loving and delighting in them. 'The natural man receiveth not the
things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him:
neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned'
(1 Cor 2:14). Now I say, if the natural man at best (for the elect
before conversion are no more, if quite so much) cannot do this,
how shall they attain thereto, being now not only corrupted
and infected, but depraved, bewitched and dead; swallowed up of
unbelief, ignorance, confusion, hardness of heart, hatred of God,
and the like? When a thorn by nature beareth grapes, and a thistle
beareth figs, then may this thing be (Matt 7:16-18). To lay hold
of and receive the gospel by a true and saving faith, it is an
act of the soul as made a new creature, which is the workmanship
of God: 'Now he that hath wrought us for the self-same thing
is God' (2 Cor 5:5). 'For a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good
fruit' (Luke 6:43-45). 'Can the Ethiopian change his skin?' (Jer
13:23).

But yet the cause of this impossibility.

1. Lieth not in reprobation, the elect themselves being as much
unable to receive it as the other.

2. Neither is it because the reprobate is excluded in the tender,
for that is universal.

3. Neither is it because there wanteth arguments in the tenders
of the gospel, for there is not only plenty, but such as be
persuasive, clear, and full of rationality.

4. Neither is it because these creatures have no need thereof,
for they have broken the law.

5. Wherefore it is, because indeed they are by sin dead, captivated,
mad, self-opposers, blind, alienated in their minds, and haters
of the Lord. Behold the ruins that sin hath made!

Wherefore whoever receiveth the grace that is tendered in the
gospel, they must be quickened by the power of God, their eyes must
be opened, their understandings illuminated, their ears unstopped,
their hearts circumcised, their wills also rectified, and the Son
of God revealed in them. Yet as I said, not because there wanteth
argument in these tenders, but because men are dead, and blind,
and cannot hear the word. 'Why do ye not understand my speech
[saith Christ]; Even because ye cannot hear my word' (John 8:43;
Acts 9:15, 26:9,10; Psa 110:3; Gal 1:15; Matt 11:27).

For otherwise, as I said but now, there is, 1. Rationality enough
in the tenders of the gospel. 2. Persuasions of weight enough to
provoke to faith. And, 3. Arguments enough to persuade to continue
therein.

1. Is it not reasonable that man should believe God in the proffer
of the gospel and life by it? Is there not reason, I say, both
from the truth and faithfulness of God, from the sufficiency of the
merits of Christ, as also from the freeness and fullness of the
promise? What unreasonable thing doth the gospel bid thee credit?
Or what falsehood doth it command thee to receive for truth? Indeed
in many points the gospel is above reason, but yet in never a one
against it; especially in those things wherein it beginneth with
the sinner, in order to eternal life.

2. Again, touching its persuasions to provoke to faith: With how
many signs and wonders, miracles and mighty deeds, hath it been
once and again confirmed, and that to this very end? (Heb 1:1-3;
1 Cor 14:22). With how many oaths, declarations, attestations, and
proclamations, is it avouched, confirmed, and established? (Heb
6:17,18; Acts 13:32; Jer 3:12; Gal 3:15). And why should not
credence be given to that gospel that is confirmed by blood, the
blood of the Son of God himself? Yea, that gospel that did never
yet fail any that in truth hath cast themselves upon it, since
the foundation of the world (Heb 9:16-18, 12:1-3).

3. Again, as there is rationality enough, and persuasions sufficient,
so there is also argument most prevalent to persuade to continue
therein, and that to heartily, cheerfully, and unfeignedly, unto
the end: did not, as I have said, blindness, madness, deadness, and
willful rebellion, carry them away in the vanity of their minds,
and overcome them (Eph 4:17-19).

(1.) For, first, if they could but consider how they have sinned,
how they have provoked God, &c., if they could but consider what
a dismal state the state of the damned is, and also, that in
a moment their condition is like to be the same, would they not
cleave to the gospel and live?

(2.) The enjoyment of God, and Christ, and saints, and angels,
being the sweetest; the pleasures of heaven the most comfortable,
and to live always in the greatest height of light, life, joy,
and gladness imaginable, one would think were enough to persuade
the very damned now in hell.

There is no man then perisheth for want of sufficient reason in the
tenders of the gospel, nor any for want of persuasions to faith;
nor yet because there wanteth arguments to provoke to continue
therein. But the truth is, the gospel in this hath to do with
unreasonable creatures; with such as will not believe it, and that
because it is truth: 'And because I tell you the truth, [saith
Christ] therefore ye believe me not' (John 8:45).

Quest. Well, but if this in truth be thus, how then comes it to
pass that some receive it and live for ever? For you have said
before, that the elect are as dead as the reprobate, and full as
unable as they, as men, to close with these tenders, and live.

Answ. Doubtless this is true, and were the elect left to themselves,
they, through the wickedness of their heart, would perish as
do others. Neither could all the reasonable persuasive prevalent
arguments of the gospel of God in Christ, prevail to make any
receive it, and live. Wherefore here you must consider, that as
there is mercy proclaimed in the general tenders of the gospel,
so there is also the grace of election; which grace kindly
over-ruleth and winneth the spirit of the chosen, working in them
that unfeigned closing therewith, that makes it effectual to their
undoubted salvation; which indeed is the cause that not only in
other ages, but also to this day, there is a remnant that receive
this grace; they being appointed, I say, thereto, before the
world began; preserved in time from that which would undo them,
and enabled to embrace the glorious gospel of grace, and peace,
and life (1 Kings 19:18; Rom 11:5; 1 Thess 5:9).

Now there is a great difference between the grace of election, and
the grace that is wrapped up in the general tenders of the gospel
a difference, I say, and that both as to its timing, latituding,
and working.

1. Touching its timing; it is before, yea long before, there was
either tender of the grace wrapped up in the gospel to any, or
any need of such a tender (Eph 1:4,5).

2. They also differ in latitude; the tenders of grace in the
gospel are common and universal to all, but the extension of that
of election special and peculiar to some. 'There is a remnant
according to the election of grace' (Rom 11:5).

3. Touching the working of the grace of election; it differs much
in some things from the working of the grace that is offered in the
general tenders of the gospel. As is manifest in these particulars:

(1.). The grace that is offered in the general tenders of the
gospel, calleth for faith to lay hold upon, and accept thereof;
but the special grace of election, worketh that faith which doth
lay hold thereof (Acts 16:31, 13:48; Phil 1:29; 2 Thess 1:11).

(2.) The grace that is offered in the general tenders of the gospel,
calleth for faith, as a condition in us, without which there is
no life; but the special grace of election worketh faith in us
without any such condition (Mark 16:15,16; Rom 11:5,6).

(3.) The grace that is offered in the general tenders of the
gospel, promiseth happiness upon the condition of persevering in
the faith only; but the special grace of election causeth this
perseverance (Col 1:23; Eph 2:10; Rom 11:7; 1 Peter 1:5-7).

(4.) The grace offered in the general tenders of the gospel, when
it sparkleth most, leaveth the greatest part of men behind it;
but the special grace of election, when it shineth least, doth
infallibly bring every soul therein concerned to everlasting life
(Rom 10:16, 8:33-35).

(5.) A man may overcome and put out all the light and life that
is begotten in him by the general tenders of the gospel; but none
shall overcome, or make void, or frustrate the grace of election
(Jude 4; 2 Peter 2:20-22; Matt 24:24; Rom 11:1-3, &c.).

(6.) The general tenders of the gospel, considered without a
concurrence of the grace of election, helps not the elect himself,
when sadly fallen. Wherefore, when I say the grace that is offered
in the general tenders of the gospel, I mean that grace when
offered, as not being accompanied with a special operation of
God's eternal love, by way of conjunction therewith. Otherwise
the grace that is tendered in the general offers of the gospel,
is that which saveth the sinner now, and that brings him to
everlasting life; that is, when conjoined with that grace that
blesseth and maketh this general tender effectually efficacious.
The grace of election worketh not without, but by these tenders
generally; neither doth the grace thus tendered, effectually work,
but by and with the grace of election: 'As many as were ordained
to eternal life believed' (Acts 13:48): The word being then effectual
to life, when the hand of the Lord is effectually therewith to that
end (Mark 16:20). They 'spake [saith the text] unto the Grecians,
preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them;
and a great number believed, and turned unto the Lord' (Acts
11:20,21).

We must always put difference between the word of the gospel, and
the power that manageth that word; we must put difference between
the common and more special operations of that power also; even as
there is evidently a difference to be put between those words of
Christ that were effectual to do what was said, and of those words of
his which were but words only, or at least not so accompanied with
power. As for instance: that same Jesus that said to the Leper,
'Say nothing to any man,' said also to Lazarus, 'Come forth';
yet the one obeyed, the other did not; though he that obeyed was
least in a capacity to do it, he being now dead, and stunk in his
grave. Indeed unbelief hath hindered Christ much, yet not when he
putteth forth himself as Almighty, but when he doth suffer himself
by them to be abused who are to be dealt with by ordinary means:
Otherwise legions of devils, with ten thousand impediments, must
fall down before him, and give way unto him. There is a speaking,
and a so speaking: 'They so spake, that a great multitude, both
of the Jews, and also of the Greeks, believed' (Acts 14:1). Even
as I have hinted already, there is a difference between the coming
of the word when it is in power (1 Thess 1:5), and when it is in
word only. So then, the blessed grace of election chooseth this
man to good, not because he is good; it chooseth him to believe,
not because he doth believe; it chooseth him to persevere, not
because he doth so; it fore-ordains that this man shall be created
in Christ Jesus unto good works (Eph 1:4-6), not if a man will
create himself thereto (1 Peter 1:2; Eph 2:10).

What shall we say then? Is the fault in God, if any perish?
Doubtless no; nor yet in his act of eternal reprobation neither:
it is grace that saveth the elect, but sin that damns the rest:
it is superabundant grace that causeth the elect to close with the
tenders of life, and live; and it is the aboundings of sin that
holds off the reprobate from the rational, necessary, and absolute
tenders, of grace. To conclude then; the gospel calleth for credence
as a condition, and that both from the elect and reprobate; but
because none of them both, as dead in sin, will close therewith,
and live; therefore grace, by virtue of electing love, puts forth
itself to work and do for some beyond reason; and justice cuts
off others, for slighting so good, so gracious, and necessary a
means of salvation, so full both of kindness, mercy and reason.


CHAPTER 11.

Seeing [that] it is not possible that the reprobate should receive
this grace and live, and also seeing [that] this is infallibly
foreseen of God; and again, seeing God hath fore-determined
to suffer it so to be; Why doth he yet will and command that the
gospel, and so grace in the general tenders thereof, should be
proffered unto them?

Why then is the gospel offered them? Well, that there is such a
thing as eternal reprobation, I have shewed you; also what this
eternal reprobation is, I have opened unto you: and shall now shew
you also, that though these reprobates will infallibly perish,
which God not only foresaw, but fore-determined to suffer them
most assuredly so to do; yet there is reason, great reason, why
the gospel, and so the grace of God thereby, should be tendered,
and that in general terms, to them as well as others.

But before I come to lay the reasons before you, I must mind you
afresh of these particulars:

1. That eternal reprobation makes no man a sinner.

2. That the fore-knowledge of God that the reprobate would perish
makes no man a sinner.

3. That God's infallibly determining upon the damnation of him
that perisheth, makes no man a sinner.

4. God's patience and long-suffering, and forbearance, until the
reprobate fits himself for eternal destruction, makes no man a
sinner.

So then, God may reprobate, may suffer the reprobate to sin, may
pre-determine his infallible damnation, through the pre-consideration
of him in sin, and may also forbear to work that effectual work
in his soul that would infallibly bring him out of this condition,
and yet neither be the author, contriver, nor means of man's sin
and misery.

Again, God may infallibly foresee that this reprobate, when he
hath sinned, will be an unreasonable opposer of his own salvation;
and may also determine to suffer him to sin, and be thus unreasonable
to the end, yet be gracious, yea very gracious, if he offer him
life, and that only upon reasonable terms, which yet he denieth
to close with (Isa 1:18; 55:12).

The reasons are,

1. Because not God, but sin, hath made him unreasonable; without
which, reasonable terms had done his work for him: for reasonable
terms are the most equal and righteous terms that can be propounded
between parties at difference; yea the terms that most suiteth and
agreeth with a reasonable creature, such as man; nay, reasonable
terms are, for terms, the most apt to work with that man whose
reason is brought into and held captive by very sense itself (Eze
18; 33).

2. God goeth yet further, he addeth promises of mercy, as those
that are inseparable to the terms he offereth, even to pour forth
his Spirit unto them; 'Turn at my reproof, and behold I will pour
forth of my Spirit unto you, and incline your ear; come unto me,
hear and your soul shall live' (Prov 1:23-27).

Now then to the question itself, to wit, that seeing it is impossible
the reprobate should be saved; seeing also this is infallibly
foreseen of God, and seeing also that God hath beforehand determined
to suffer it so to be; yet I shall shew you it is requisite, yea
very requisite, that he should both will and command that the
gospel, and so grace in the general tenders thereof should be
proffered unto them.

FIRST REASON.--And that first, to shew that this reprobation doth
not in itself make any man absolutely incapable of salvation: for
if God had intended that by the act of reprobation, the persons
therein concerned should also by that only act have been made
incapable of everlasting life, then this act must also have tied
up all the means from them, that tendeth to that end; or at least
have debarred the gospel's being offered to them by God's command,
for that intent; otherwise who is there but would have charged the
Holy One as guilty of guile, and worthy of blame, for commanding
that the gospel of grace and salvation should be offered unto
this or that man, whom yet he hath made incapable to receive it,
by his act of reprobation. Wherefore this very thing, to wit, that
the gospel is yet to be tendered to these eternally reprobated,
sheweth that it is not simply the act of God's reprobation, but
sin, that incapacitateth the creature of life everlasting. Which
sin is no branch of this reprobation, as is evident, because the
elect and reprobate are both alike defiled therewith.

SECOND REASON.--God also sheweth by this, that the reprobate do
not perish for want of the offers of salvation, though he hath
offended God, and that upon most righteous terms; according to what
is written, 'As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in
the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way,
and live' (Eze 33:11, 18:31,32). 'Turn ye unto me, saith the Lord
of Hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts' (Zech
1:3). So then, here lieth the point between God and the reprobate,
I mean the reprobate since he hath sinned, God is willing to save
him upon reasonable terms, but not upon terms above reason; but
not reasonable terms will [go] down with the reprobate, therefore
he must perish for his unreasonableness.

That God is willing to save even those that perish for ever, is
apparent, both from the consideration of the goodness of his
nature (Psa 145:9), of man's being his creature, and indeed in a
miserable state (Job 14:15, 3:16). But I say, as I have also said
already, there is a great difference between his being willing
to save them, through their complying with these his reasonable
terms, and his being resolved to save them, whether they, as men,
will close therewith, or no; so only he saveth the elect themselves,
even 'according to the riches of his grace' (Eph 1:7). Even
'according to his riches in glory, by Christ Jesus' (Phil 4:19).
Working effectually in them, what the gospel, as a condition,
calleth for from them. And hence it is that he is said to give
faith (Phil 1:29), yea the most holy faith, for that is the faith
of God's elect, to give repentance (Acts 5:31), to give a new
heart, to give his fear, even that fear that may keep them for
ever from everlasting ruin (Eph 1:4); still engaging his mercy and
goodness to follow them all the days of their lives (Jer 32:40;
Eze 36:26,27), that they may dwell in the house of the Lord for
ever (Psa 23:6), and as another scripture saith, 'Now he that hath
wrought us for the selfsame thing, is God' (2 Cor 5:5; Rom 8:26,
&c.).

But I say, his denying to do thus for every man in the world,
cannot properly be said to be because he is not heartily willing
they should close with the tenders of the grace held forth in
the gospel, and live. Wherefore you must consider that there is
a distinction to be put between God's denying grace on reasonable
terms, and denying it absolutely; and also that there is a difference
between his withholding further grace, and of hindering men from
closing with the grace at present offered; also that God may
withhold much, when he taketh away nothing; yea, take away much,
when once abused, and yet be just and righteous still. Further, God
may deny to do this or that absolutely, when yet he hath promised
to do, not only that, but more, conditionally. Which things
considered, you may with ease conclude, that he may be willing to
save those not elect, upon reasonable terms, though not without
them.

It is no unrighteousness in God to offer grace unto the world,
though but on these terms only, that they are also foreseen by him
infallibly to reject; both because to reject it is unreasonable,
especially the terms being so reasonable, as to believe the truth
and live; and also because it is grace and mercy in God, so much
as once to offer means of reconciliation to a sinner, he being
the offender; but the Lord, the God offended; they being but dust
and ashes, he the heavenly Majesty. If God, when man had broke
the law, had yet with all severity kept the world to the utmost
condition of it, had he then been unjust? Had he injured man at
all? Was not every tittle of the law reasonable, both in the first
and second table? How much more then is he merciful and gracious,
even in but mentioning terms of reconciliation? especially seeing
he is also willing so to condescend, if they will believe his word,
and receive the love of the truth. Though the reprobate then doth
voluntarily, and against all strength of reason, run himself upon
the rocks of eternal misery, and split himself thereon, he perisheth
in his own corruption, by rejecting terms of life (2 Thess 2:10;
2 Peter 2:12,13).

Object. But the reprobate is not now in a capacity to fulfil these
reasonable terms.

Ans. But I say, suppose it should be granted, is it because
reprobation made him incapable, or sin? Not reprobation, but sin:
if sin, then before he quarrel, let him consider the case aright,
where, in the result, he will find sin, being consented to by his
voluntary mind, hath thus disabled him: and because, I say, it
was sin by his voluntary consent that did it, let him quarrel with
himself for consenting, so as to make himself incapable to close
with reasonable terms; yea, with those terms because reasonable,
therefore most suitable, as terms, for him notwithstanding his
wickedness. And I say again, forasmuch as those reasonable terms
have annexed unto them, as their inseperable companions, such
wonderful mercy and grace as indeed there is, let even them that
perish, yet justify God; yea cry, 'His goodness endureth for
ever'; though they, through the wretchedness of their hearts, get
no benefit by it.

THIRD REASON.--God may will and command that his gospel, and so
the grace thereof, be tendered to those that shall never be saved,
(besides what hath been said) to shew to all spectators what an
enemy sin, being once embraced, is to the salvation of man. Sin,
without the tenders of the grace of the gospel, could never have
appeared so exceeding sinful, as by that it both hath and doth: 'If
I had not come and spoken unto them, [saith Christ] they had not
had sin: but now they have no cloke for their sin' (John 15:22).
As sins that oppose the law, are discovered by the law, that is,
by the goodness, and justness, and holiness of the law (Rom 7); so
the sins that oppose the gospel, are made manifest by that, even
by the love, and mercy, and forgiveness of the gospel: If 'he
that despised Moses' law died without mercy,--of how much sorer
punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden
under foot the Son of God?' (Heb 10:28,29). Who could have thought
that sin would have opposed that which is just, but especially
mercy and grace, had we not seen it with our eyes? And how could
we have seen it to purpose, had not God left some to themselves?
Here indeed is sin made manifest: 'For all he had done so many
miracles amongst them,' (to wit, to persuade them to mercy) 'yet
they believed not on him' (John 12:37). Sin, where it reigneth, is
a mortal enemy to the soul; it blinds the eyes, holds the hands,
ties the legs, and stops the ears, and makes the heart implacable
to resist the Saviour of souls. That man will neither obey the
law nor the gospel, who is left unto his sin: which also God is
willing should be discovered and made manifest, though it cost the
damnation of some: For this very purpose, saith God to Pharaoh,
'have I raised thee up, for to shew in thee my power; and that my
name may be declared in all the earth' (Exo 9:16; Rom 9:17). For
God, by raising up Pharaoh to his kingdom, and suffering him to
walk to the height, according as his sin did prompt him forward,
shewed unto all beholders what a dreadful thing sin is; and that
without the special assistance of his Holy Spirit, sin would
neither be charmed by law nor gospel. This reason, though it be
no profit unto those that are damned; yet it is for the honour of
God, and the good of those he hath chosen.

It is for the honour of God, even for the honour of his power and
mercy: for his power is now discovered indeed, when nothing can
tame sin but that; and his mercy is here seen indeed; because that
doth engage him to do it. Read Romans 9:22,23.

FOURTH REASON.--God commandeth that the tender of the gospel,
and the grace thereof, be in general offered to all, that means
thereby might be sufficiently provided for the elect, both to
beget them to faith, and to maintain it in them to the end, in
what place, or state, or condition soever they are (Eph 1). God,
through the operation of his manifold wisdom, hath an end and an
end in his acts and doings amongst the children of men: and, so in
that he commandeth that his gospel be tendered to all, an end, I
say, to leave the damned without excuse, and to provide sufficiency
of means for the gathering all his elect. 'Oh that God would speak,
[saith Zophar] and open his lips against thee; and--shew thee the
secrets of wisdom, that they are double to that which is' (Job
11:5,6). For though God worketh with and upon the elect, otherwise
than with and upon the reprobate; yet he worketh with and upon
the elect, with and by the same word he commandeth should be held
forth and offered to the reprobate. Now the text thus running in
most free and universal terms, the elect then hearing thereof, do
through the mighty power of God close in with the tenders therein
held forth, and are saved. Thus that word that was offered to the
reprobate Jews, and by them most fiercely rejected, even that word
became yet effectual to the chosen, and they were saved thereby.
They gladly received the word, 'and as many as were ordained to
eternal life believed' (Acts 13:48).[9] 'Not as though the word
of God had taken none effect' (Rom 9:6). 'God hath not cast away
his people whom he foreknew' (11:2). The word shall accomplish
the thing for which God hath sent it, even the salvation of the
few that are chosen, when tendered to all; though rejected by most,
through the rebellion of their hearts (Acts 28:28; Heb 4:1-3).

Object. But if God hath elected, as you have said, what need he
lay a foundation so general for the begetting faith in his chosen
particulars, seeing the same Spirit that worketh in them by such
means, could also work in them by other, even by a word, excluding
the most, in the first tenders thereof, amongst men?

Ans. I told you before, that though this be a principal reason
of the general tenders of the grace of the gospel, yet it is not
all the reason why the tender should be so general, as the three
former reasons shew.

But again, in the bowels of God's decree of election, is contained
the means that are also ordained for the effectual bringing of
those elected to that glory for which they were fore-appointed;
even to gather together in one, all the children of God (John
11:52). 'Whereunto he called you, [saith Paul] by our gospel,
to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ' (2 Thess
2:14). God's decree of election then, destroyeth not the means
which his wisdom hath prepared, it rather establisheth, yea ordains
and establisheth it; and maketh that means which in the outward
sound is indefinite and general, effectual to this and that man,
through a special and particular application (Gal 2:20,21): thus
that Christ that in general was offered to all, is by a special
act of faith applied to Paul in particular; 'He loved me, and gave
himself for me.'

Further, As the design of the Heavenly Majesty is to bring his elect
to glory by means, so by the means thus universal and general, as
most behooveful and fit; if we consider not only the way it doth
please him to work with some of his chosen, in order to this their
glory, but also the trials, temptations, and other calamities they
must go through thereto.

1. Touching his working with some, how invisible is it to these
in whose souls it is yet begun? How is the word buried under the
clods of their hearts for months, yea years together? Only thus
much is discovered thereof, it sheweth the soul its sin, the which
it doth also so aggravate and apply to the conscience (Jesus still
refraining, like Joseph, to make himself known to his brethren)
that were there not general tenders of mercy, and that to the worst
of sinners, they would soon miscarry, and perish, as do the sons
of perdition. But by these the Lord upholdeth and helpeth them,
that they stand, when others fall for ever (Psa 119:49).

2. And so likewise for their trials, temptations, and other
calamities, because God will not bring them to heaven without,
but by them; therefore he hath also provided a word so large, as
to lie fair for the support of the soul in all conditions, that
it may not die for thirst.

3. I might add also in this place, their imperfect state after
grace received, doth call for such a word; yea, many other things
which might be named: which God, only wise, hath thought fit should
accompany us to the ship, yea in the sea, to our desired haven.

FIFTH REASON.--God willeth and commandeth the gospel should be
offered to all, that thereby distinguishing love, as to an inward
and spiritual work, might the more appear to be indeed the fruit
of special and peculiar love. For in that the gospel is tendered
to all in general, when yet but some do receive it; yea, and seeing
these some are as unable, unwilling, and by nature, as much averse
thereto, as those that refuse it, and perish; it is evident that
something more of heaven and the operation of the Spirit of God
doth accompany the word thus tendered for their life and salvation
that enjoy it (1 Thess 1:4-7). Not now as a word barely tendered,
but backed by the strength of heaven: 'Behold what manner of love
the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the
sons of God!' (1 John 3:1) even we who believe 'according to the
working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ, when he
raised him from the dead' (Eph 1:20). This provoketh to distinguishing
admiration, yea, and also to a love like that which hath fastened
on the called, the preserved, and the glorified: 'He hath not
dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not
known them. Praise ye the Lord' (Psa 147:20). Now are the sacrifices
bound even to the horns of the altar, with a 'Lord, how is it
that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world!'
(John 14:22). He 'sent from above, he took me; he drew me out of
many waters; he delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them
that hated me; for they were too strong for me' (2 Sam 22:17; Psa
18:16).

For thus the elect considereth: though we all came alike into the
world, and are the children of wrath by nature (Eph 2:1-3); yea,
though we have alike so weakened ourselves by sin (Rom 3:9), that
the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint (Isa 1:5), being
altogether gone out of the way, and every one become altogether
unprofitable, both to God and ourselves (Rom 3:12); yet that God
should open mine eyes, convert my soul, give me faith, forgive
my sins, raise me, when I fall; fetch me again, when I am gone
astray; this is wonderful! (Psa 37:23). Yea, that he should prepare
eternal mansions for me (Psa 23:6); and also keep me by his blessed
and mighty power for that; and that in a way of believing, which
without his assistance I am no way able to perform! (2 Cor 5:5).
That he should do this notwithstanding my sins, though I had no
righteousness! (Deut 9:5-7). Yea, that he should do it according
to the riches of his grace, through the redemption that is in
Jesus Christ our Lord! Even according to an everlasting covenant
of grace, which yet the greatest part of the world are void of,
and will for ever miss and fall short of! (Eze 16:60-63). Besides,
that he should mollify my heart! break it, and then delight in it
(Psa 51:17); put his fear in it, and then look to me (Isa 66:2;
Psa 138:6), and keep me as the apple of his eye (Deut 32:10);
yea, resolve to guide me with his counsel, and then receive me to
glory! Further, that all this should be the effect of unthought
of, undeserved, and undesired love! (Mal 1:2; Deut 7:7,8). That the
Lord should think on this before he made the world (Jer 31:3), and
sufficiently ordain the means before he had laid the foundation of
the hills! For this he is worthy to be praised (1 Cor 2:9): yea,
'Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord; praise ye the
Lord.'

Object. But you have said before, that the reprobate is also blessed
with many gospel mercies, as with the knowledge of Christ, faith,
light, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the tastes or relish of
the powers of the world to come: if so, then what should be the
reason that yet he perisheth? Is it because the grace that he
receiveth differeth from the grace that the elect are saved by?
If they differ, where lieth the difference? Whether in the nature,
or in the degree, or in the management thereof?

Ans. To this objection I might answer many things; but, for brevity,
take this reply: That the non-elect may travel very far both in
the knowledge, faith, light, and sweetness of Jesus Christ, and
may also attain to the partaking of the Holy Ghost; yea, and by
the very operation of these things also, escape the pollutions of
the world, and become a visible saint, join in church-communion,
and be as chief amongst the very elect themselves. This the
scriptures every where do shew us.

The question then is, whether the elect and reprobate receive a
differing grace? To which I answer, Yes, in some respects, both
as to the nature thereof, and also the degree.

1. To begin then with the nature of it.

(1.) The faith that the chosen are blessed with, it goeth under
another name than any faith besides, even the faith of God's elect
(Titus 1:1), as of a faith belonging to them only, of which none
others do partake; which faith also, for the nature of it, is called
faith most holy (Jude 20); to shew it goes beyond all other, and
can be fitly matched no where else, but with their most blessed
faith who infallibly attain eternal glory: even 'like precious faith
with us,' saith Peter (2 Peter 1:1); with his elect companions.
And so of other things. For if this be true, that they differ in
their faith, they must needs therewith differ in other things: for
faith being the mother grace, produceth all the rest according to
its own nature, to wit, love that abounds, that never fails, and
that is never contented till it attain the resurrection of the
dead, &c. (2 Thess 1:3; 1 Cor 13:8; Phil 3).

(2.) They differ as to the nature, in this; the faith, and hope,
and love, that the chosen receive, it is that which floweth from
election itself; he hath blessed us 'according as he hath chosen
us' (Eph 1:4,5), even with those graces he set apart for us, when
he in eternity did appoint us to life before the foundation of the
world: which graces, because the decree in itself is most absolute
and infallible, they also, that they may completely answer the end,
will do the work infallibly likewise, still through the management
of Christ: 'I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not' (Luke
22:32). But,

2. As they differ in nature, they differ also in degree: for though
it be true that the reprobate is blessed with grace, yet this is
also as true, that the elect are blessed with more grace. It is
the privilege only of those that are chosen, to be blessed with
ALL spiritual blessings, and to have ALL the good pleasure of the
goodness of God fulfilled in and upon them. Those who are blessed
with ALL spiritual blessings must needs be blessed with eternal
life; and those in whom the Lord, not only works all his good
pleasure, but fulfilleth all the good pleasure of his goodness
upon them, they must needs be preserved to his heavenly kingdom
(Eph 1:4,5; 1 Thess 1:10); but none of the non-elect have these
things conferred upon them; therefore the grace bestowed upon the
one, doth differ both in nature and degree from the other.

3. There is a difference as to the management also. The reprobate
is principal for the management of the grace he receiveth, but
Jesus Christ is principal for the management of the grace the
elect receiveth. When I say principal, I mean chief; for though
the reprobate is to have the greatest hand in the management of
what mercy and goodness the Lord bestoweth on him, yet not so as
that the Lord will not help him at all; nay contrariwise he will,
if first the reprobate do truly the duty that lieth on him: 'If
thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? but if thou doest
not well, sin lieth at the door' (Gen 4:7). Thus it was also with
Saul, who was rejected of God upon this account (1 Sam 13:11-14,
15:26). And I say, as to the elect themselves, though Jesus Christ
our blessed Saviour be chief, as to the management of the grace
bestowed on his chosen, yet not so as that he quite excludeth
them from 'striving according to his working, which worketh in
me mightily' (Col 1:29). Nay contrariwise, if those who in truth
are elect, shall yet be remiss, and do wickedly, they shall feel
the stroke of God's rod, it may be till their bones do break. But
because the work doth not lie at their door to manage as chief,
but as Christ's, therefore though he may perform his work with
much bitterness and grief to them; yet he being engaged as the
principal, will perform that which concerneth them, even until
the day (the coming) of Jesus Christ (Psa 138:8; Phil 1:6).

From what hath been said, there ariseth this conclusion:

The elect are always under eternal mercy, but those not elect
always under eternal justice; for you must consider this: there
is eternal mercy and eternal justice, and there is present mercy
and present justice. So then, for a man to be in a state of
mercy, it may be either a state of mercy present, or both present
and eternal also. And so again for a man to be in a state under
justice, it may be understood either of present justice only, or
of both present and eternal also.

That this may yet further be opened, I shall somewhat enlarge.

I begin with present mercy and present justice. That which I call
present mercy, is that faith, light, knowledge, and taste of the
good word of God, that a man may have, and perish. This is called
in scripture, Believing for a while, during for a while, and
rejoicing in the light for a season (Heb 6:4,5; 2 Peter 2:20; Matt
13:22; Luke 8:13). Now I call this mercy, both because none, as
men, can deserve it, and also because the proper end thereof is
to do good to those that have it. But I call it present mercy,
because those that are only blessed with that, may sin it away,
and perish; as did some of the Galatians, Hebrews, Alexandrians,
with the Asians, and others (Gal 5:4; Heb 12:15,16; 1 Tim 1:20; 2
Tim 2:18, 1:15; Heb 12:15). But yet observe again, I do not call
this present mercy, because God hath determined it shall last but
a while absolutely; but because it is possible for man to lose
it, yea determined he shall, conditionally (John 5:35; 1 Cor 12:7).

Again, as to present justice, it is that which lasteth but a while
also; and as present mercy is properly the portion of those left
out of God's election, so present justice chiefly hath to do with
God's beloved; who yet at that time are also under eternal mercy.
This is that justice that afflicted Job (6:4), David (Psa 88,
38:3), Heman, and the godly, who notwithstanding do infallibly
attain, by virtue of this mercy, eternal life and glory (Amos
3:2; 1 Cor 11:30,31; Psa 30:5, 103:9; 1 Peter 1:6). I call this
justice, because in some sense God dealeth with his children
according to the quality of their transgressions; and I call
it also present justice, because though the hand of God for the
present be never so heavy on those that are his by election, yet
it lasteth but a while; wherefore though this indeed be called
wrath, yet is but a little wrath, wrath for a moment, time, or
season. 'In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment;
but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith
the Lord thy Redeemer' (Isa 54:8).

Thus you see there is present mercy and present justice; also
that the elect may be under present justice, when the rest may be
under present mercy.

Again, As there is present mercy and present justice, so there
is eternal mercy and eternal justice: and I say, as the elect may
be under present justice, when the non-elect may be under present
mercy; so the elect at that time are also under eternal mercy,
but the other under eternal justice.

That the elect are under eternal mercy, and that when under present
justice, is evident from what hath been said before, namely, from
their being chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world;
as also from the consideration of their sound conversion, and
safe preservation quite through this wicked world, even safe unto
eternal life; as he also saith by the prophet Jeremiah, 'Yea, I
have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with loving
kindness have I drawn thee' (31:3). And hence it is that he calleth
the elect his sheep (John 10:16), his children (11:52), and people
(Acts 18:9,10), and that before conversion; for though none of them
as yet were his children by calling, yet were they his according
to election.

Now the elect being under this eternal grace and mercy, they must
needs be under it both before present justice seizeth upon them,
while it seizeth them, and also continueth with them longer than
present justice can, it being from everlasting to everlasting.
This being so, here is the reason why no sin, nor yet temptation
of the enemy, with any other evil, can hurt or destroy those thus
elect of God: yea this is that which maketh even those things that
in themselves are the very bane of men, yet prove very much for
good to those within this purpose (Rom 8:28). And as David saith,
'It is good for me that I have been afflicted' (Psa 119:71).
And again, 'But when we are judged we are chastened of the Lord,
that we should not be condemned with the world' (1 Cor 11:32).
Now afflictions, &c., in themselves are not only fruitless and
unprofitable, but, being unsanctified, are destructive; 'I smote
him, and he went on frowardly' (Isa 57:17). But now eternal mercy
working with this or that affliction, makes it profitable to the
chosen; 'I have seen his ways, and will heal him, and restore
comforts unto him and to his mourners' (v 18). As he saith in another
place, 'Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, and teachest him
out of thy law' (Psa 94:12). For eternal mercy doth not look on
those who are the elect and chosen of God, as poor sinful creatures
only, but also as the generation whom the Lord hath blessed,
in whom he hath designed to magnify his mercy to the utmost, by
pardoning the transgressions of the remnant of his heritage (1 Peter
2:9; Micah 7:18,19). 'Having predestinated us unto the adoption
of children by Jesus Christ to himself,--wherein he hath made us
accepted in the beloved' (Eph 1:6). Wherefore, I say, the elect,
as they do also receive that grace and mercy that may be sinned
away, so they have that grace and mercy which cannot be lost,
and that sin cannot deprive them of, even mercy that abounds, and
goeth beyond all sin; such mercy as hath engaged the power of God,
the intercession of Christ, and the communication of the blessed
Spirit of adoption, which Spirit also engageth the heart, directs
it into the love of God, that it may not depart from God after
that rate as the reprobates do (Eph 5:29,30). 'I will make an
everlasting covenant with them, [saith God] that I will not turn
away from them, to do them good; but I will put my fear in their
hearts, that they shall not depart from me' (Jer 32:40).

But now I say, God's dealing with the non-elect, is far otherwise,
they being under the consideration of eternal justice, even then
when in the enjoyment of present grace and mercy. And hence it
is that as to their standing before the God of heaven, they are
counted dogs, and sows, and devils, even then when before the elect
of God themselves they are counted saints and brethren: 'The dog
is turned to his own vomit again, and the sow that was washed
to her wallowing in the mire' (2 Peter 2:22). And the reason is,
because notwithstanding all their shew before the world, their old
nature and corruptions do still bear sway within, which in time
also, according to the ordinary judgment of God, is suffered so
to shew itself, that they are visible to saints that are elect,
as was the case of Simon Magus, and that wicked apostate Judas,
who 'went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had
been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they
went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all
of us' (1 John 2:19). They were not elect as we, nor were they
sanctified as the elect of God themselves; wherefore eternal justice
counts them the sons of perdition, when under their profession.
And I say, they being under this eternal justice, it must needs
have to do with them in the midst of their profession; and because
also it is much offended with them for conniving with their lust,
it taketh away from them, and that most righteously, those gifts
and graces, and benefits and privileges that present mercy gave
them; and not only so, but cuts them off for their iniquity, and
layeth them under wrath for ever. They 'have forsaken the right way,
[saith God]--following the way of Baalam the son of Bosor;--these
are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest';
trees whose fruit withereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked
up by the roots, 'for whom is reserved the blackness of darkness
for ever' (2 Peter 2:5,16,17; Jude 11-13; John 17:12; Matt 13:12,
25:29; Mark 4:25; Luke 8:18).

These things thus considered, you see,

1. That there is present grace and present mercy, eternal grace
and eternal mercy.

2. That the elect are under eternal mercy, and THAT, when under
present justice; and that the reprobate is under eternal justice,
and THAT when under present mercy.

3. Thus you see again, that the non-elect perish by reason of
sin, notwithstanding present mercy, because of eternal justice;
and that the elect are preserved from the death, though they sin
and are obnoxious to the strokes of present justice, by reason of
eternal mercy. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness
with God? God forbid: 'He hath mercy on whom he will have mercy,
and compassion on whom he will have compassion' (Rom 9:15).


FOOTNOTES:

[1] 'Shedding words' means 'scattering or spreading words,' as in
Acts 2:33; now obsolete.--Ed.

[2] As election took place before the creation of man--all men in
Adam were decreed, made and turned into the world upright.--Ed.

[3] 'Prevents our doing good.' Few words in the English language
have more altered in their meaning than 'prevent'; it is derived
from 'praevenio,' to go before. In Bunyan's time, it meant 'to go
before,' 'clear the way,' 'make the way easy' for our doing good.
Its present meaning is 'to obstruct,' by going or standing before
us.--Ed.

[4] They who diligently attend to the scriptures, will find
throughout the whole a vein of election and reprobation. The holy
seed may be traced in many instances, and in divers families, in
the Bible, from Adam to the birth of our Saviour, whose ancestors,
according to the flesh, were of the line of election or the godly;
which those who are only born after the flesh, and not after the
Spirit, namely, the reprobate, have always despised and persecuted,
and will do so to the end of time--Mason and Ryland.

[5] It is of God's mere mercy and grace that any sinners are called
and admitted to the privilege of justification and adoption, upon
God's own terms. The reason why the sinful and unworthy heathen
(of whom Britain is a part) were called to be a people, who were
not a people, while the Jews were left out and cast off for their
obstinate unbelief, was not because the Gentiles were either more
worthy or more willing (for they were all dead in trespasses and
sins), but from God's discriminating grace and mercy.--Mason and
Ryland.

[6] The final condemnation of the wicked does not spring from
God's sovereign will to destroy any of his rational creatures;
this is evident from the many pressing invitations, declarations,
and promises in the word of God: for Jehovah swears by his great
self, that he desires not the death of a sinner. Our Lord assigns
the cause of reprobation in these words, (John 5:40) 'Ye will not
come unto me, that ye might have life'; wherefore Christ, the only
remedy for their cure, being rejected, the sinner is condemned,
and rendered the object of wrath and punishment by the law and
justice of God; because the same word of truth which says, 'Whosoever
will, let him come, and take of the water of life freely,' also
says, 'The soul that sinneth [or lives and dies in sin unpardoned]
shall die.' Thus sin is the object of God's hatred, and not the
man, abstractedly considered. May we therefore each of us have
grace to look to Christ for full and complete salvation, who hath
put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, whereby he has perfected
for ever them that are sanctified!--Ryland and Mason.

[7] 'Secret things belong to God, but those that are revealed
belong to us.' It is a vain thing for men to cavil at the doctrine
of peculiar election, and to quarrel with God for choosing some,
and passing by others. Their best way would be to assure themselves
of their own election, by using the means, and walking in the ways
of God's appointment, as laid down in the word, and then they will
find that God cannot deny himself, but will make good to them every
promise therein; and thus, by scripture evidence, they will find
that they are elected unto life, and will be thankful and humble.
They will then find that an hearty affectionate trusting in Christ
for all his salvation, as freely promised to us, hath naturally
enough in it to work in our souls a natural bent and inclination
to, and ability for, the practice of all holiness.--Ryland and
Mason.

[8] None are excluded the benefit of the great and precious salvation
procured and finished by the Lord Jesus Christ, but they, who
by perverseness, unbelief, and impenitency, exclude themselves.
Sinners,--miserable, helpless, and hopeless sinners, are the objects
of this salvation: whosoever is enabled to see, in the light of
God's Spirit, their wretched and forlorn state; to feel their want
of Christ as a suitable Saviour, and to repent and forsake their
sins, shall find mercy; for 'God is no respecter of persons' (Acts
10:34).--Ryland and Mason.

[9] As the same sun which softens the wax, hardens the clay, so
it is with the preached gospel, which is to some 'the savour of
death unto death, and to others the savour of life unto life' (2
Cor 2:16). The gospel is ineffectual to any saving purpose respecting
the reprobate; partly through pride, and in not enduring to be
reproved by it; partly through slothfulness, in not coming under
the sound of it; and principally through cursed infidelity, in not
believing the gracious message it brings. Let it be well attended
to, that all who hear the gospel, are obliged to the duty of
believing, as well as to all the duties of the moral law, and that
before they know their particular election; for we cannot have
a certain knowledge of our election to eternal life before we do
believe: it is a thing hidden in the unsearchable counsel of God,
until it be manifest by our effectual calling, and believing on
Christ; therefore we must believe on Christ before we know our
election; or else we shall never know it, and shall never believe.
All joy, peace, comfort, assurances, are communicated to the soul
in the way of believing. May the Lord give and increase saving
faith!--Mason and Ryland.

***

QUESTIONS ABOUT THE NATURE AND PERPETUITY OF THE SEVENTH-DAY SABBATH.

AND PROOF, THAT THE FIRST DAY OF THE WEEK IS THE TRUE CHRISTIAN
SABBATH.

BY JOHN BUNYAN.

'The Son of man is lord also of the Sabbath day.'

London: Printed for Nath, Ponder, at the Peacock in the Poultry,
1685.


EDITOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.

All our inquiries into divine commands are required to be made
personally, solemnly, prayerful. To 'prove all things,' and 'hold
fast' and obey 'that which is good,' is a precept, equally binding
upon the clown, as it is upon the philosopher. Satisfied from our
observations of nature, that there is a God; our next inquiry is
into the revelation of his will: which, when understood, must be
implicitly obeyed, in defiance of any usages of society, and of every
erroneous pre-conceived opinion. In this important investigation,
we shall find, that the commands of God revealed to man, fall
under two classes.

First, Moral and Eternal, being essential to the happiness of all
created intelligences, whether pure or sinful. As, the fear and
love of the Creator, who preserves and bountifully blesses his
creatures; and flowing from this is love to all his creation. He
who wantonly destroys life in order that he may glut a demoniac
propensity with the agonizing death struggle, is a practical
atheist. The Christian will cherish and promote the happiness of
all; he dares only to take away life to preserve life.

Second, Ceremonial or Temporal. Those which have been commanded
by God, for local, family or national observances, and which, when
they have fulfilled their intended object, are removed or suffered
gradually to die away.

The well-being of society requires that a portion of time be set
apart for divine worship. Individuals are commanded to pray without
ceasing. An invaluable custom leads families to unite in morning
and evening prayer; and it is an important question whether the
Creator having sanctified, and rested on, the seventh day, intended
that rest as a pattern to all his rational creatures. If so, the
seventh day must depend upon our being able to fix upon which
day of the week the creation commenced. Again our inquiries will
extend to those injunctions, given to the Jews in the wilderness,
to sanctify certain days to public worship; and whether that law
was intended for all mankind. In either case it is essential that
we ascertain whether those various Sabbaths of weeks--of months
or of years--with the ceremonies to be performed on them, were to
continue to the end of time or for a limited period.

In all these inquiries we are strictly confined to revelation,
for there is no indication in nature, or in any of its laws, of
a day of rest; but on the contrary a state of progression marks
every day alike. Our Lord has taught us that 'the Sabbath was made
for man,' and therefore did not exist among the angels, prior to
the creation of man, as all moral or universal obligations must
have existed; for they are the same from eternity to eternity; and
over this, like other ceremonial or local commands, the Creator
claims dominion. 'The Son of man is Lord also of the Sabbath.'

Researches into these questions were made in earlier times, and
some curious calculations have appeared to prove, that the work
of creation commenced on the day called Monday, so that what is
now termed the first day of the week, was originally the rest of
God from creation; as it was his rest from the work of redemption,
by rising from the tomb. But the extent of that period called a
day, in creation, has never been defined: and the terms 'work' or
'rest,' as applied to the Deity, are used in condescension to our
finite powers. The controversy upon this subject assumed a more
public and definite form at the Reformation. Sir Thomas More asserted
that the seventh day was superseded by the first, in obedience to
tradition:[1] it forms the first of the five commandments of Holy
Church--'The Sundays hear thou mass.' William Tyndale, in reply,
contends that 'we be lords over the Sabbath'; we may change it
for Monday, or any other day, as we see need, or have two every
week, if one is not enough to teach the people.[2] Calvin preferred a
daily assembling of the church, but if that was impossible, then
at stated intervals: his words are--'Since the Sabbath is abrogate,
I do not so rest upon the number of seven, that I would bind the
church to the bondage thereof; neither will I condemn those churches
that have other solemn days for their meetings.'[3] Luther considers
the observance of the Jewish Sabbath one of the 'weak and beggarly
rudiments.'[4]

The controversy became still more popular in this country, when
James the First and Charles the First put forth the book of sports to
be allowed and encouraged on Sundays. The Puritans called Sunday
'The Sabbath,' and a voluminous contest was carried on as to whether
it ought not rather to be called 'The Lord's day.' In 1628, Mr.
Brabourne, a clergyman of note, kept the Jewish Sabbath, and in
a short time several churches, in England, assembled on that day,
and were called 'seventh day, or Sabbath keepers'--many of them
were Baptists. This led to the controversy in which Bunyan took
his part, in this very conclusive and admirable treatise.

The work was first published in the year 1685, and was not reprinted
until the year 1806, when it appeared in the third volume of select
works by John Bunyan; since then it has been reprinted in two
American editions of his works. The reason why it was not republished,
probably was, that the churches of the Sabbath keepers died away.
At this time only three are known in England; one of these is
at Millyard, London, where my talented antiquarian friend, W. H.
Black, is elder and pastor. These places of worship are supported
by an endowment. Bunyan's book does not appear to have been
answered; indeed, it would require genius of no ordinary kind to
controvert such conclusive evidence.

His arguments are, that the appearances of nature shew no difference
of days--that no Sabbath or other day was set apart for worship
before the giving of the Law at Sinai. 'Thou camest down also upon
Mount Sinai, and madest KNOWN unto them thy holy Sabbaths, by the
hand of Moses' (Neh 9:13,14). 'The seventh day is the Sabbath of
the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work--and remember
that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord
thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by
a stretched out arm, THEREFORE the Lord thy God commanded thee to
keep the Sabbath day' (Deut 5:14,15). While many crimes are mentioned
in patriarchal times, there is no complaint of Sabbath-breaking.
We read of fratricide, drunkenness, lying, unbelief, theft, idolatry,
slave-dealing, and other crimes, but no hint as to sanctifying or
desecrating the Sabbath. At length, a few days before the giving
of the law, a natural phenomenon announced to the Jews the great
change that was at hand--the manna fell in double quantity on Friday,
and was not found on Saturday. So new was this that, contrary to
the command, the people went out on the seventh day as on other
days, and were rebuked but not punished for it. But no sooner
is the Sabbath instituted by Moses, than it is broken, and the
Sabbath-breaker is punished with a cruel death. It was instituted
as a peculiar observance to distinguish the Jews from all other
nations--'The Lord hath given YOU the Sabbath' (Exo 16:39). 'The
children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath' (Exo 31:16,17). 'I gave
them [the Israelites who were delivered from Egypt] my Sabbaths
to be a sign between me and them' (Eze 20:12). Ceremonies were
commanded to be performed as the Sabbath worship, which cannot
now be observed (see Lev 24; Numb 28: Neh 13:22; Eze 46:4). The
Jewish Sabbath was 'a shadow of things to come, but the body is
of Christ' (Col 2:16,17). The shadows have fled away; we possess
the substance. The covenant of Moses was written on stone--the
new covenant is written on our hearts (Heb 8:9,10). Bunyan admits
no uncertainty as to a fixed day for christian worship: the law
of nature requires it; the God of nature fixes the day, without
borrowing it from the ministration of death. The Jewish passover
and Sabbaths are superseded; Christ our passover is slain, and we
have not an annual but a perpetual feast. We have an infinitely
greater deliverance to commemorate than that of the Jews from
Egypt. Released from the dominion and punishment of sin, we have
entered into a rest boundless as eternity. Manna, which never
fell on the Jewish Sabbath, falls in peculiar and rich abundance
on the first day of the week, when it first began to fall. The
first day is peculiarly sanctified and honoured of God. On this
day the Son rested from His work of redemption (Heb 4:10). He is
Lord of the Sabbath, and hath peculiarly blessed his own day.
On this day some of the saints that slept arose (Matt 27:52,53).
On this day Christ was made the head of the corner, and we will
rejoice and be glad in it. On the first day God begat his beloved
Son from the dead (Acts 13:33). Let all the angels of God worship
him (Heb 1:6). Hence it is called the Lord's day (Rev 1:10).
This day is the only one named upon which Christ appeared to his
disciples after his resurrection: it was on the evening of the
first day of the week, and on the evening of the following eighth
day, that they assembled and Christ appeared in the midst of them.
On this day he walked with his disciples to Emmaus, and made their
hearts to burn within them with holy joy and wonder. The marvels
of the day of Pentecost honoured the first day of the week. On
this day the first great conversion of 'about three thousand souls'
took place. On this day the disciples at Jerusalem came together
to break bread (Acts 20:7). Upon THE, not A, first day they broke
bread; and upon THE first day, the collections were made for the
poor saints (1 Cor 16:1,2). With such concurrent and ample testimony
we must conclude that the seventh day Sabbath, with its Jewish
ritual, is dissolved, and the first day has taken its place. The
Saviour said, 'It is finished'; and from that moment to the end
of the inspired volume, the seventh day is swallowed up in the
glories of the first day of the week. Let Jews commemorate their
temporal deliverance from Pharaoh and Egypt with their divers
ceremonies; but Christians, blessed with a foretaste of eternal
glory, will commemorate the resurrection of their Lord, as the
first fruits of an unspeakable rest from the dominion of sin, of
Satan, and of hell. Our glorified Redeemer sanctioned and blessed
the first day, with his personal appearance in the assemblies of
his saints. His inspired apostles kept it, as it is recorded, and
thus it is sanctioned by the Holy Ghost; and their descendants
are bound to keep it to the end of the world. Go, little treatise,
and carry conviction with thee. Emancipate the christian mind from
all the beggarly rudiments of Jewish rites and ceremonies. Add
to the holy enjoyments of God's saints in public worship, on the
day when their eternal redemption is commemorated by the triumphant
resurrection of their Lord.--GEO. OFFOR.


TO THE READER.

Some may think it strange, since God's church has already been
so well furnished with sound grounds and reasons by so many wise
and godly men, for proof that the first day of the week is our
true Christian sabbath, that I should now offer this small treatise
upon the same account. But when the scales are even by what already
is put in, a little more, you know, makes the weight the better.

Or grant we had down weight before, yet something over and above
may make his work the harder, that shall by hanging fictions on
the other end, endeavour to make things seem too light.

Besides, this book being little, may best suit such as have but
shallow purses, short memories, and but little time to spare,
which usually is the lot of the mean and poorer sort of men.

I have also written upon this subject, for that I would, as in
other gospel truths, be a fellow witness with good men that the
day in which our Lord rose from the dead should be much set by of
Christians.

I have observed that some, otherwise sound in faith, are apt to
be entangled with a Jewish sabbath, &c., and that some also that
are afar off from the observation of that, have but little to
say for their own practice, though good; and might I help them I
should be glad.

A Jewish seventh-day sabbath has no promise of grace belonging
to it, if that be true, as to be sure it is, where Paul says, The
command to honour parents is the first commandment with promise
(Eph 6:1-3).

Also it follows from hence, that the sabbath that has a promise
annexed to the keeping of it, is rather that which the Lord Jesus
shall give to the churches of the Gentiles (Isa 56).

Perhaps my method here may not in all things keep the common path
of argumentation with them that have gone before me: but I trust
[that] the godly wise will find a taste of scripture truth in what
I present them with as to the sanction of our Christian sabbath.

I have here, by handling four questions, proved, that the seventh
day sabbath was not moral. For that must of necessity be done,
before it can be made appear that the first day of the week is that
which is the sabbath day for Christians. But withal it follows,
that if the seventh day sabbath was not moral,[5] the first day is
not so. What is it then? Why, a sabbath for holy worship is moral;
but this or that day appointed for such service, is sanctified by
precept or by approved example. The timing then of a sabbath for
us lies in God, not man; in grace, not nature; nor in the ministration
of death, written and engraven in stones: God always reserving to
himself a power to alter and change both time and modes of worship
according to his own will.

A sabbath then, or day of rest from worldly affairs to solemnize
worship to God in, all good men do by nature conclude is meet;
yea, necessary: yet that, not nature, but God reveals.

Nor is that day or time by God so fixed on, in its own nature,
better than any other: the holiness then of a sabbath lies, not
in the nature or place of a day, but in the ordinance of God.

Nor doth our sanctifying of it, to the ends for which it is
ordained, lie in a bare confession that it is such; but in a holy
performance of the duty of the day to God by Christ, according to
his word.

But I will not enlarge to detain the reader longer from the
following sheets; but shall commit both him and them to the wise
dispose of God, and rest,

Thine to serve thee,

JOH. BUNYAN.


QUESTIONS ABOUT THE NATURE AND PERPETUITY OF THE SEVENTH-DAY
SABBATH.


QUESTION I.

Whether the seventh day sabbath is of, or made known to, man by
the law and light of nature?

Something must be here premised before I show the grounds of this
question. First then, by the law or light of nature, I mean that
law which was concreate with man; that which is natural to him,
being original with, and essential to, himself; consequently, that
which is invariable and unalterable, as is that nature. Secondly,
I grant that by this law of nature, man understands that there
is one eternal God; that this God is to be worshiped according to
his own will; consequently, that time must be allowed to do it
in: but whether the law or light of nature teacheth, and that of
itself, without the help of revelation, that the seventh day of
the week is that time sanctified of God, and set apart for his
worship, that is the question; and the grounds of it are these:

First, Because the law of nature is antecedent to this day, yea
completed as a law before it was known or revealed to man, that
God either did or would sanctify the seventh day of the week at
all.

Now this law, as was said, being natural to a man, for man is a
law unto himself (Rom 2), could only teach the things of a man,
and there the Apostle stints it (1 Cor 2:11). But to be able
to determine, and that about things that were yet without being,
either in nature or by revelation, is that which belongs not to a
man as a man; and the seventh day sabbath, as yet, was such. For
Adam was completely made the day before; and God did not sanctify
the seventh day before it was, none otherwise than by his secret
decree. Therefore, by the law of nature, Adam understood it not,
it was not made known to him thereby.

Second, To affirm the contrary, is to make the law of nature
supernatural, which is an impossibility. Yea, they that do so make
it a predictor, a prophet; a prophet about divine things to come;
yea, a prophet able to foretell what shall be, and that without
a revelation; which is a strain that never yet prophet pretended
to.

Besides, to grant this, is to run into a grievous error; for
this doth not only make the law of nature the first of prophets,
contrary to Genesis 3:10 compared with John 1:1 but it seems to
make the will of God, made known by revelation, a needless thing.
For if the law of nature, as such, can predict, or foretell God's
secrets, and that before he reveals them, and this law of nature
is universal in every individual man in the world, what need is
there of particular prophets, or of their holy writings? And indeed
here the Quakers and others split themselves. For if the law of
nature can of itself reveal unto me one thing pertaining to
instituted worship, for that we are treating of now, and the
exact time which God has not yet sanctified and set apart for the
performance thereof, why may it not reveal unto me more, and so
still more; and at last all that is requisite for me to know, both
as to my salvation, and how God is to be worshiped in the church
on earth.

Third, If it be of the law of nature, then all men by nature are
convinced of the necessity of keeping it, and that though they
never read or heard of the revealed will of God about it; but this
we find not in the world.

For though it is true that the law of nature is common to all, and
that all men are to this day under the power and command thereof;
yet we find not that they are by nature under the conviction of the
necessity of keeping of a seventh day sabbath. Yea, the Gentiles,
though we read not that they ever despised the law of nature,
yet never had, as such, a reverence of a seventh day sabbath, but
rather the contrary.

Fourth, If therefore the seventh day sabbath is not of the law
of nature, then it should seem not to be obligatory to all. For
instituted worship, and the necessary circumstances thereunto
belonging, is obligatory but to some. The tree that Adam was forbid
to eat of, we read not but that his children might have eat the
fruit thereof: and circumcision, the passover, and other parts of
instituted worship was enjoined but to some.

Fifth, I doubt the seventh day sabbath is not of the law of nature,
and so not moral; because though we read that the law of nature,
and that before Moses, was charged upon the world, yet I find
not till then, that the profanation of a seventh day sabbath was
charged upon the world: and indeed to me this very thing makes a
great scruple in the case.

A law, as I said, we read of, and that from Adam to Moses (Rom
5:13,14). The transgressions also of that law, we read of them,
and that particularly, as in Genesis 4:8, 6:5, 9:21, 22, 12:13,
13:13, 18:12-15, 19:5; (Eze 16:49,50[6]); Genesis 31:30, 35:2,
40:15, 44:8-10; Deuteronomy 8:19, 20, 12:2; Psalm 106:35-37 and
Romans the first and second chapters.

But in all the scriptures we do not read, that the breach of a
seventh day sabbath was charged upon men as men all that time.
Whence I gather, that either a seventh day sabbath was not discerned
by the light of nature, and so not by that law imposed; or else,
that men by the help and assistance of that, for we speak of men
as men,[7] in old time kept it better, than in after ages did the
church of God with better assistance by far. For they are there
yet found fault with as breakers of the sabbath (Eze 20:13).

It follows therefore, that if the law of nature doth not of itself
reveal to us, as men, that the seventh day is the holy sabbath of
God. That that day, as to the sanction of it, is not moral, but
rather arbitrary, to wit, imposed by the will of God upon his
people, until the time he thought fit to change it for another
day.

And if so, it is hence to be concluded, that though by the light
of nature men might see that time must be allowed and set apart
for the performance of that worship that God would set up in his
house, yet, as such, it could not see what time the Lord would to
that end choose. Nature therefore saw that, by a positive precept,
or a word revealing it, and by no other means.

Nor doth this at all take away a whit of that sanction which God
once put upon the seventh day sabbath; unless any will say, and
by sufficient argument prove, that an ordinance for divine worship
receiveth greater sanction from the law of nature than from a
divine precept: or standeth stronger when it is established by a
law humane, for such is the law of nature, than when imposed by
revelation of God.

But the text will put this controversy to an end. The sanction of
the seventh day sabbath, even as it was the rest of God, was not
till after the law of nature was completed; God rested the seventh
day and sanctified it (Gen 2:3). Sanctified it; that is, set it
apart to the end there mentioned, to wit, to rest thereon.

Other grounds of this question I might produce, but at present I
will stop here, and conclude, That if a seventh day sabbath was an
essential necessary to the instituted worship of God, then itself
also as to its sanction for that work, was not founded but by a
positive precept; consequently not known of man at first, but by
revelation of God.


QUESTION II.

Whether the seventh day sabbath, as to man's keeping of it holy,
was ever made known to, or imposed by, a positive precept upon him
until the time of Moses? which from Adam was about two thousand
years.

Something must also be here premised, in order to my propounding
of my grounds for this question; and that is, That the seventh
day was sanctified so soon as it had being in the world, unto the
rest of God, as it is Genesis 2:2, 3 and he did rest, from all
his works which he had made therein. But the question is, Whether
when God did thus sanctify this day to his own rest, he did also
by the space of time above-mentioned, impose it as an holy sabbath
of rest upon men; to the end they might solemnize worship to him
in special manner thereon? And I question this,

First, Because we read not that it was. And reading, I mean, of
the divine testimony, is ordained of God, for us to find out the
mind of God, both as to faith and our performance of acceptable
service to him.

In reading also, we are to have regard to two things.

I. To see if we can find a precept: or,

II. A countenanced practice for what we do. For both these ways
we are to search, that we may find out what is that good, that
acceptable will of God.

For the first of these we have Genesis 2:16, 17 and for the second,
Genesis 8:20, 21 [as to public worship but not on a stated day].

Now as to the imposing of a seventh day sabbath upon men from
Adam to Moses, of that we find nothing in holy writ either from
precept or example. True, we find that solemn worship was performed
by the saints that then lived: for both Abel, Noah, Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, sacrificed unto God (Gen 4:4, 8:20,21, 12:7, 13:4, 35:1),
but we read not that the seventh day was the time prefixed of
God for their so worshipping, or that they took any notice of it.
Some say, that Adam in eating the forbidden fruit, brake also the
seventh day sabbath, because he fell on that day;[8] but we read
not that the breach of a sabbath was charged upon him. That which
we read is this; 'Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded
thee that thou shouldest not eat?' (Gen 3:11). Some say also that
Cain killed Abel on a sabbath day;[9] but we read not that, in
his charge, God laid any such thing at his door. This was it of
which he stood guilty before God; namely, That his brother's blood
cried unto God against him from the ground (Gen 4:10).

I therefore take little notice of what a man saith, though he
flourisheth his matter with many brave words, if he bring not with
him, 'Thus saith the Lord.' For that, and that only, ought to be
my ground of faith as to how my God would be worshiped by me. For
in the matters material to the worship of God, it is safest that
thus I be guided in my judgment: for here only I perceive 'the
footsteps of the flock' (Cant 1:8; Eze 3:11). They say further,
that for God to sanctify a thing, is to set it apart. This being
true; then it follows, that the seventh day sabbath was sanctified,
that is, set apart for Adam in paradise; and so, that it was
ordained a sabbath of rest to the saints from the beginning.

But I answer, as I hinted before, that God did sanctify it to his
own rest. 'The LORD [also] hath set apart him that is godly for
himself.' But again, it is one thing for God to sanctify this or
that thing to an use, and another thing to command that that thing
be forthwith in being to us. As for instance: the land of Canaan
was set apart many years for the children of Israel before they
possessed that land. Christ Jesus was long sanctified; that is,
set apart to be our redeemer before he sent him into the world
(Deut 32:8; John 10:36).

If then, by God's sanctifying of the seventh day for a sabbath,
you understand it for a sabbath for man, (but the text saith not
so) yet it might be so set apart for man, long before it should
be, as such, made known unto him. And that the seventh day sabbath
was not as yet made known to men.

Second, Consider secondly, Moses himself seems to have the knowledge
of it at first, not by tradition, but by revelation; as it is
Exodus 16:23, 'This is that [saith he] which the Lord hath said,
[namely to me; for we read not, as yet, that he said it to any body
else]. To morrow is the sabbath of the holy rest unto the Lord.'

Also holy Nehemiah suggesteth this, when he saith of Israel to
God, Thou 'madest known unto them thy holy sabbath [by the hand
of Moses thy servant]' (Neh 9:14). The first of these texts shews
us, that tidings of a seventh day sabbath for men, came first to
Moses from heaven: and the second, that it was to Israel before
unknown.

But how could be either the one or the other, if the seventh day
sabbath was taught to men by the light of nature, which is the moral
law? Or if from the beginning it was given to men by a positive
precept for to be kept.

This therefore strengtheneth my doubt about the affirmative of the
first question, and also prepareth an argument for what I plead
as to this we have now under consideration.

Third, This yet seems to me more scrupulous, because that the
punishment due to the breach of the seventh day sabbath was hid
from men to the time of Moses; as is clear, for that it is said
of the breaker of the sabbath, 'They put him in ward, because it
was not [as yet] declared what should be done to him' (Num 15:32-36).

But methinks, had this seventh day sabbath been imposed upon men
from the beginning, the penalty or punishment due to the breach
thereof had certainly been known before now.

When Adam was forbidden to eat of the tree of the knowledge of
good and evil, the penalty was then, if he disobeyed, annexed to
the prohibition. So also it was as to circumcision, the passover,
and other ordinances for worship. How then can it be thought,
that the seventh day sabbath should be imposed upon men from the
beginning; and that the punishment for the breach thereof, should
be hid with God for the space of two thousand years! (Gen 2:16,17,
17:13,14; Exo 12:43-48) and the same chapter (v 19).

Fourth, God's giving of the seventh day sabbath was with respect
to stated and stinted worship in his church; the which, until the
time of Moses, was not set up among his people. Things till then
were adding or growing: now a sacrifice, then circumcision, then
again long after that the passover, &c.

But when Israel was come into the wilderness, there to receive
as God's congregation, a stated, stinted, limited way of worship,
then he appoints them a time, and times, to perform this worship
in; but as I said afore, before that it was not so, as the whole
five books of Moses plainly shew: wherefore the seventh day
sabbath, as such a limited day cannot be moral, or of the law of
nature, nor imposed till then.

And methinks Christ Jesus and his apostles do plainly enough declare
this very thing. For that when they repeat unto the people, or
expound before them the moral law, they quite exclude the seventh
day sabbath. Yea, Paul makes that law to us complete without it.

We will first touch upon what Christ doth in this case.

As in his sermon upon the mount (Matt 5-7). In all that large and
heavenly discourse upon this law, you have not one syllable about
the seventh day sabbath.

So when the young man came running, and kneeling, and asking what
good thing he should do to inherit eternal life, Christ bids him
keep the commandments; but when the young man asked which; Christ
quite leaves out the seventh day, and puts him upon the other. As
in Matthew 19:16-19. As in Mark 10:17-20. As in Luke 18:18-20.

You will say, he left out the first, and second, and third likewise.
To which I say, that was because the young man by his question
did presuppose that he had been a doer of them: for he professed
in his supplication, that he was a lover of that which is naturally
good, which is God, in that his petition was so universal for
every thing which he had commanded.

Paul also when he makes mention of the moral law, quite leaves out
of that the very name of the seventh day sabbath, and professeth,
that to us Christians the law of nature is complete without it.
As in Romans 3:7-19. As in Romans 13:7-10. As in 1 Timothy 1:8-11.

'He that loveth another, saith he, hath fulfiled the law. For
this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou
shalt not steal, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other
commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, Thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his
neighbour: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.'

I make not an argument of this, but take an occasion to mention
it as I go. But certainly, had the seventh day sabbath been moral,
or of the law of nature, as some would fain persuade themselves,
it would not so slenderly have been passed over in all these
repetitions of this law, but would by Christ or his apostles have
been pressed upon the people, when so fair an opportunity as at
these times offered itself unto them. But they knew what they did,
and wherefore they were so silent as to the mention of a seventh
day sabbath when they so well talked of the law as moral.

Fifth, Moses and the prophet Ezekiel both, do fully confirm what
has been insinuated by us; to wit, that the seventh day, as a
sabbath, was not imposed upon men until Israel was brought into
the wilderness.

1. Moses saith to Israel, 'Remember that thou wast a servant int
he land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence
through a mighty hand and by a stretched out arm: THEREFORE the
Lord thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day.' Yea, he
tells us, that the covenant which God made with them in Horeb,
that written in stones, was not made with their forefathers, to
wit, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but with them (Deut 5:1-15).

2. Ezekiel also is punctual as to this: I caused them, saith God
by that prophet, 'to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought
them into the wilderness. And I gave them my statutes, and shewed
them my judgments, which if a man do, he shall even live in them.
Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me
and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify
them' (Eze 20:10-12; Exo 20:8, 31:13, 35:2).

What can be more plain? And these to be sure, are two notable
witnesses of God, who, as you see, do jointly concur in this; to
wit, That it was not from paradise, nor from the fathers, but from
the wilderness, and from Sinai, that men received the seventh day
sabbath to keep it holy.

True, it was God's sabbath before: for on the first seventh day we
read, that God rested thereon, and sanctified it. Hence he calls
it in the first place, MY sabbath. I gave them my sabbath: But
it seems it was not given to the church till he had brought them
into the wilderness.

But I say, if it had been moral, it had been natural to man; and
by the light of nature men would have understood it, even both
before it was, and otherwise. But of this you see we read nothing,
either by positive law, or countenanced example, or any other way,
but rather the flat contrary; to wit, that Moses had the knowledge
of it first from heaven, not by tradition. That Israel had it,
not of, or from their fathers, but in the wilderness, from him, to
wit, Moses, after he had brought them out of the land of Egypt. And
that that whole law in which this seventh day sabbath is placed,
was given for the bounding and better ordering of them in their
church state for their time, till the Messias should come and
put, by a better ministration, this out of his church, as we shall
further shew anon.

The seventh day sabbath therefore was not from paradise, nor from
nature, nor from the fathers, but from t he wilderness, and from
Sinai.


QUESTION III.

Whether when the seventh day sabbath was given to Israel in the
wilderness the Gentiles, as such, was concerned therein.

Before I shew my ground for this question, I must also first premise,
That the Gentiles, as such, were then without the church of God,
and pale thereof; consequently had nothing to do with the essentials
or necessary circumstances of that worship which God had set up
for himself now among the children of Israel.

Now then for the ground of the question.

First, we read not that God gave it to any but to the seed of
Jacob. Hence it is said to Israel, and to Israel only, 'The Lord
hath given YOU the sabbath' (Exo 16:29). And again, 'also I gave
THEM my sabbath' (Eze 20:5,12).

Now, if the gift of the seventh day sabbath was only to Israel,
as these texts do more than seem to say; then to the Gentiles, as
such, it was not given. Unless any shall conclude, that God by
thus doing preferred the Jew to a state of gentileism; or that
he bestowed on them, by thus doing, some high Gentile privilege.
But this would be very fictious. For, to lay aside reason, the text
always, as to preference, did set the Jew in the first of places
(Rom 2:10). Nor was his giving the seventh day sabbath to them
but a sign and token thereof.

But the great objection is, because the seventh day sabbath
is found amongst the rest of those precepts which is so commonly
called the moral law; for thence it is concluded to be of a
perpetual duration.

But I answer: That neither that as given on Sinai is moral; I
mean, as to the manner and ends of its ministration, of which,
God permitting, we shall say more in our answer to the fourth
question, whither I direct you for satisfaction. But,

Second, The Gentiles could not be concerned, as such, with God's
giving of a seventh day sabbath to Israel, because, as I have
shewed before, it was given to Israel, considered as a church of
God (Acts 7:32). Nor was it given to them, as such, but with rites
and ceremonies thereto belonging, so Leviticus 24:5-9; Numbers
28:9, 10; Nehemiah 13:22; Ezekiel 46:4.

Now, I say, if this sabbath hath ceremonies thereto belonging,
and if these ceremonies were essential to the right keeping of
the sabbath: and again, if these ceremonies were given to Israel
only, excluding all but such as were their proselytes, then this
sabbath was given to them as excluding the Gentiles as such. But if
it had been moral, the Gentiles could as soon have been deprived
of their nature as of a seventh day sabbath, though the Jews should
have appropriated it unto themselves only.

Again, to say that God gave this seventh day sabbath to the Gentiles,
as such, (and yet so he must, if it be of the moral law) is as
much as to say, that God hath ordained that that sabbath should
be kept by the Gentiles without; but by the Jews, not without her
ceremonies. And what conclusion will follow from hence, but that
God did at one and the same time set up two sorts of acceptable
worships in the world: one among the Jews, another among the Gentiles!
But how ridiculous such a thought would be, and how repugnant to
the wisdom of God, you may easily perceive.

Yea, what a diminution would this be to God's church that then was,
for one to say, the Gentiles were to serve God with more liberty
than the Jew! For the law was a yoke, and yet the Gentile is called
the dog, and said to be without God in the world (Deut 7:7; Psa
147:19,20; Matt 15:26; Eph 2:11,12).

Third, When the Gentiles, at the Jews' return from Babylon, came
and offered their wares to sell to the children of Israel at
Jerusalem on this sabbath; yea, and sold them to them too: yet
not they, but the Jews were rebuked as the only breakers of that
sabbath. Nay, there dwelt then at Jerusalem men of Tyre, that on
this sabbath sold their commodities to the Jews, and men of Judah:
yet not they, but the men of Judah, were contended with, as the
breakers of this sabbath.

True, good Nehemiah did threaten the Gentiles that were merchants,
for lying then about the walls of the city, for that by that means
they were a temptation to the Jews to break their sabbaths; but
still he charged the breach thereof only upon his own people (Neh
13:15-20).

But can it be imagined, had the Gentiles now been concerned with
this sabbath by law divine, that so holy a man as Nehemiah would have
let them escape without a rebuke for so notorious a transgression
thereof; especially considering, that now also they were upon
God's ground, to wit, within and without the walls of Jerusalem.

Fourth, Wherefore he saith to Israel again, 'Verily my sabbaths
YE shall keep.' And again, 'YE shall keep the sabbath.' And again,
'The children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the
sabbath throughout THEIR generations' (Exo 31:14-16, 16:29).[10]

What can be more plain, these things thus standing int he testament
of God, than that the seventh day sabbath, as such, was given to
Israel, to Israel ONLY; and that the Gentiles, as such, were not
concerned therein!

Fifth, The very reason also of God's giving of the seventh day
sabbath to the Jews, doth exclude the Gentiles, as such, from having
any concern therein. For it was given to the Jews, as was said
before, as they were considered God's church, and for a sign and
token by which they should know that he had chosen and sanctified
them to himself for a peculiar people (Exo 31:13-17; Eze 20:12,13).

And a great token and sign it was that he had so chosen them: for
in that he had given to them this sabbath, he had given to them
(his own rest) a figure and pledge of his sending his Son into the
world to redeem them from the bondage and slavery of the devil:
of which indeed this sabbath was a shadow or type (Col 2:16,17).[11]

Thus have I concluded my ground for this third question. I shall
therefore now propound another.


QUESTION IV.

Whether the seventh day sabbath did not fall, as such, with the
rest of the Jewish rites and ceremonies? Or whether that day, as
a sabbath, was afterwards by the apostles imposed upon the churches
of the Gentiles?

I would now also, before I shew the grounds of my proposing this
question, premise what is necessary thereunto; to wit, That time
and day were both fixed upon by law, for the solemn performance
of divine worship among the Jews; and that time and day is also
by law fixed, for the solemnizing of divine worship to God in the
churches of the Gentiles. But that the seventh day sabbath, as
such, is that time, that day, that still I question.

Now before I shew the grounds of my questioning of it, I shall
enquire into the nature of that ministration in the bowels of
which this seventh day sabbath is placed. And,

First, I say, as to that, the nature of that law is moral, but the
ministration, and circumstances thereunto belonging, are shadowish
and figurative.

By the nature of it, I mean the matter thereof: by the ministration
and circumstances thereto belonging, I do mean the giving of it
by such hands, at such a place and time, in such a mode, as when
it was given to Israel in the wilderness.

The matter therefore, to wit, 'Thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,
and with all thy strength': and 'thy neighbour as thyself,' is
everlasting (Mark 12:29-31), and is not from Sinai, nor from the
two tables of stone, but in nature; for this law commenced and
took being and place that day in which man was created. Yea, it
was concreate with him, and without it he cannot be a rational
creature, as he was in the day in which God created him. But for
the ministration of it from Sinai, with the circumstances belonging
to that ministration, they are not moral, nor everlasting, but
shadowish and figurative only.

That ministration cannot be moral for three reasons. 1. It commenced
not when morality commenced, but two thousand years after. 2.
It was not universal as the law, as moral, is; it was given only
to the church of the Jews in those tables. 3. Its end is past
as such a ministration, though the same law as to the morality
thereof abides. Where are the tables of stone and this law as
therein contained? We only, as to that, have the notice of such a
ministration, and a rehearsal of the law, with that mode of giving
of it, in the testament of God.

But to come to particulars.

1. The very preface to that ministration carrieth in it a type
of our deliverance from the bondage of sin, the devil, and hell.
Pharaoh, and Egypt; and Israel's bondage there, being a type of
these.

2. The very stones in which this law was engraven, was a figure
of the tables of the heart. The first two were a figure of the
heart carnal, by which the law was broken: the last two, of the
heart spiritual, in which the new law, the law of grace is written
and preserved (Exo 34:1; 2 Cor 3:3).

3. The very mount on which this ministration was given, was typical
of Mount Zion. See Hebrews 12 where they are compared (vv 18-22).

4. Yea, the very church to whom that ministration was given, was
a figure of the church of the gospel that is on Mount Zion. See the
same scripture, and compare it with Acts 7:38; Revelation 14:1-5.

5. That ministration was given in the hand and by the disposition
of angels, to prefigure how the new law or ministration of the
Spirit was to be given afterwards to the churches under the New
Testament by the hands of the angel of God's everlasting covenant
of grace, who is his only begotten Son (Isa 63:9; Mal 3:1[12];
Acts 3:22,23).

6. It was given to Israel also in the hand of Moses, as mediator,
to shew, or typify out, that the law of grace was in after times
to come to the church of Christ by the hand and mediation of Jesus
our Lord (Gal 3:19; Deut 5:5; Heb 8:6; 1 Tim 2:5; Heb 9:15, 12:24).

7. As to this ministration, it was to continue but 'till the seed
should come'; and then must, as such, give place to a better
ministration (Gal 3:19). 'A better covenant, established upon
better promises' (Heb 8:6).

From all this therefore I conclude, that there is a difference to
be put between the morality of the law, and the ministration of
it upon Sinai. The law, as to its morality was before; but as to
this ministration, it was not till the church was with Moses, and
he with the angels on Mount Sinai in the wilderness.

Now in the law, as moral, we conclude a time propounded, but no
seventh day sabbath enjoined. But in that law, as thus ministered,
which ministration is already out of doors;[13] we find a seventh
day; that seventh day on which God rested, on which God rested
from all his works, enjoined. What is it then? Why the whole
ministration as written and engraven in stones being removed,
the seventh day sabbath must also be removed; for that the time
nor yet the day, was as to our holy sabbath, or rest, moral; but
imposed with that whole ministration, as such, upon the church,
until the time of reformation: which time being come, this
ministration, as I said, as such, ceaseth; and the whole law,
as to the morality of it, is delivered into the hand of Christ,
who imposes it now also; but not as a law of works, nor as that
ministration written and engrave in stones, but as a rule of life
to those that have believed in him (1 Cor 9:21).

So then, that law is still moral, and still supposes, since it
teaches that there is a God, that time must be set apart for his
church to worship him in, according to that will of his that he
had revealed in his word. But though by that law time is required;
yet by that, as moral, the time never was prefixed.

The time then of old was appointed by such a ministration of that
law as we have been now discoursing of; and when that ministration
ceaseth, that time did also vanish with it. And now by our new
law-giver, the Son of God, he being 'lord also of the sabbath
day,' we have a time prefixed, as the law of nature requireth, a
new day, by him who is the lord of it; I say, appointed, wherein
we may worship, not in the oldness of that letter written and
engraven in stones, but according to, and most agreeing with,
his new and holy testament. And this I confirm further by those
reasons that now shall follow.

First, Because we find not from the resurrection of Christ to
the end of the Bible, anything written by which is imposed that
seventh day sabbath upon the churches. Time, as I said, the law
as moral requires; but that time we find no longer imposed. And in
all duties pertaining to God and his true worship in his churches,
we must be guided by his laws and testaments. By his old laws,
when his old worship was in force; and by his new laws, when his
new worship is in force. And he hath verily now said, 'Behold, I
make all things new' (Rev 21:5).

Second, I find, as I have shewed, that this seventh day sabbath is
confined, not to the law of nature as such, but to that ministration
of it which was given on Sinai: which ministration as it is come
to an end as such, so it is rejected by Paul as a ministration no
ways capable of abiding in the church now, since the ministration
of the Spirit also hath taken its place (2 Cor 3). Wherefore
instead of propounding it to the churches with arguments tending
to its reception, he seeks by degrading it of its old lustre and
glory, to wean the churches from any likement[14] thereof:

1. By calling of it the ministration of death, of the letter, and
of condemnation, a term most frightful, but no ways alluring to
the godly.

2. By calling it a ministration that now has no glory, by reason
of the exceeding glory of that ministration under which by the
Holy Spirit the New Testament churches are. And these are weaning
considerations (2 Cor 3).

3. By telling of them it is a ministration that tendeth to blind
the mind, and to veil the heart as to the knowledge of their Christ:
so that they cannot, while under that, behold his beauteous face,
but as their heart shall turn from it to him (2 Cor 3).

4. And that they might not be left in the dark, but perfectly know
what ministration it is that he means, he saith expressly, it is
that 'written and engraven in stones.' See again 2 Corinthians 3.
And in that ministration it is that this seventh day sabbath is
found.

But shall we think that the apostle speaks any thing of all here
said, to wean saints off from the law of nature, as such! No
verily, that he retains in the church, as being managed there by
Christ: but THIS ministration is dangerous now, because it cannot
be maintained in the church, but in a way of contempt to the
ministration of the Spirit, and is derogatory to the glory of
that.

Now these, as I said, are weaning considerations. No man, I do
think, that knows himself, or the glory of a gospel ministration,
can, if he understands what Paul says here, desire that such a
ministration should be retained in the churches.

Third. This seventh day sabbath has lost its ceremonies (those
unto which before you are cited by the texts) which was with it
imposed upon the old church for her due performance of worship to
God thereon. How then can this sabbath now be kept? Kept, I say,
according to law. For if the church on which it was first imposed,
was not to keep it, yea, could not keep it legally without the
practising of those ceremonies: and if those ceremonies are long
ago dead and gone, how will those that pretend to a belief of a
continuation of the sanction thereof, keep it, I say, according
as it is written?

If they say, they retain the day, but change their manner of
observation thereof; I ask, who has commanded them so to do? This
is one of the laws of this sabbath. 'Thou shalt take fine flour,
and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth deals shall be in one
cake. And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the
pure table before the Lord. And thou shalt put pure frankincense
upon each row, that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even
an offering made by fire unto the Lord. Every sabbath he shall
set it in order before the Lord continually, being taken from the
children of Israel by an everlasting covenant' (Lev 24:5-8). You
may see also other places, as Numbers 28:9, 10; Nehemiah 13:22
and Ezekiel 46:4.

Now if these be the laws of the sabbath, this seventh day sabbath;
and if God did never command that this sabbath should by his
church be sanctified without them: and, as was said before, if
these ceremonies have been long since dead and buried, how must
this sabbath be kept?

Let men take heed, lest while they plead for law, and pretend
themselves to be the only doers of God's will,[15] they be not
found the biggest transgressors thereof. And why can they not as
well keep the other sabbaths? As the sabbath of months, of years,
and the jubilee? For this, as I have shewed, is no moral precept,
it is only a branch of the ministration of death and condemnation.

Fourth, The seventh day sabbath, as such, was a sign and shadow
of things to come; and a sign cannot be the thing signified and
substance too. Wherefore when the thing signified or substance,
is come, the sign or thing shadowing ceaseth. And, I say, the
seventh day sabbath being so, as a seventh day sabbath it ceaseth
also. See again Exodus 31:13, 14; Ezekiel 20:12, 21; Colossians
2:14.

Nor do I find that our Protestant writers, notwithstanding their
reverence of the sabbath, do conclude otherwise; but that though
time as to worshipping God, must needs be contained in the bowels
of the moral law, as moral; yet they for good reasons forbear to
affix the seventh day as that time there too.

They do it, I say, for good reasons; reason drawn from the scripture;
or rather, for that the scripture draws them so to conclude: yet
they cast not away the morality of a sabbath of rest to the church.
It is to be granted them, that time for God's worship abideth for
ever, but the seventh day vanishes as a shadow and sign; because
such indeed it was, as the scripture above cited declares as to
the sanction thereof as a sabbath.

The law of nature then calls for time; but the God of nature
assigns it, and has given power to his Son to continue SUCH time
as himself shall by his eternal wisdom judge most meet for the
churches of the Gentiles to solemnize worship to God by him in.
Hence he is said to be 'Lord even of the sabbath day' (Matt 12:8).

Fifth, I find by reading God's word, that Paul by authority
apostolical, takes away the sanctions of all the Jews' festivals
and sabbaths.

This is manifest, for that he leaves the observation or non-observation
of them, as things indifferent, to the mind and discretion of
the believers. 'One man esteemeth one day above another: another
esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in
his own mind' (Rev 14:5).

By this last clause of the verse, 'Let every man be fully persuaded
in his own mind,' he doth plainly declare, that such days are
now stript of their sanction.[16] For none of God's laws, while
they retain their sanction, are left to the will and mind of the
believers, as to whether they will observe them or no. Men, I say,
are not left to their liberty in such a case; for when a stamp of
divine authority is upon a law, and abides, so long we are bound,
not to our mind, but to that law: but when a thing, once sacred,
has lost its sanction, then it falls, as to faith and conscience,
among other common or indifferent things. And so the seventh day
sabbath did. Again,

Sixth, Thus Paul writes to the church of Colosse. 'Let no man
therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of an
holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath: which are a shadow
of things to come; but the body is of Christ' (Col 2:16,17). Here
also, as he serveth other holy days, he serveth the sabbath. He
gives a liberty to believers to refuse the observation of it, and
commands that no man should judge against them for their so doing.
And as you read, the reason of his so doing is, because the body,
the substance is come. Christ saith he, is the body, or that which
these things were a shadow or figure of. 'The body is of Christ.'

Nor hath the apostle, since he saith 'or of the sabbath' one would
think, left any hole, out at which men's inventions could get:
but man has sought out many; and, so, many he will use.

But again, That the apostle by this word 'sabbath' intends the
seventh day sabbath, is clear; for that it is by Moses himself
counted for a sign, as we have shewed: and for that none of the
other sabbaths were a more clear shadow of the Lord Jesus Christ
than this. For that, and that alone, is called 'the rest of God':
in it God rested from all his works. Hence he calls it by way of
eminency, 'MY sabbath, and MY holy day' (Isa 56:4, 58:13).

Yet could that rest be nothing else but typical; for God, never
since the world began, really rested, but in his Son. 'This is
he,' saith God, 'in whom I am well pleased.' This sabbath then,
was God's rest typically, and was given to Israel as a sign of
his grace towards them in Christ. Wherefore when Christ was risen,
it ceased, and was no longer of obligation to bind the conscience
to the observation thereof. [Or of the sabbath.] He distinctly
singleth out this seventh day, as that which was a most noble
shadow, a most exact shadow. And then puts that with the other
together; saying, they are a shadow of things to come; and that
Christ has answered them all. 'The body is of Christ.'

Seventh, No man will, I think, deny but that Hebrews 4:45 intends
the seventh day sabbath, on which God rested from all his works;
for the text doth plainly say so: yet may the observing reader
easily perceive that both it, and the rest of Canaan also, made
mention of verse 5 were typical, as to a day made mention of verses
7 and 8 which day he calls another. He would not afterwards have
made mention of another day. If Joshua had given them rest, he
would not. Now if they had not that rest in Joshua's days, be sure
they had it not by Moses; for he was still before.

All the rests therefore that Moses gave them, and that Joshua gave
them too, were but typical of another day, in which God would give
them rest (Heb 4:9,10). And whether the day to come, was Christ,
or Heaven, it makes no matter: it is enough that they before did
fail, as always shadows do, and that therefore mention by David is,
and that afterward, made of another day. 'There remains therefore
a rest to the people of God.' A rest to come, of which the seventh
day in which God rested, and the land of Canaan, was a type; which
rest begins in Christ now, and shall be consummated in glory.

And in that he saith 'There remains a rest,' referring to that
of David, what is it, if it signifies not, that the other rests
remain not? There remains therefore a rest, a rest prefigured by
the seventh day, and by the rest of Canaan, though they are fled
and gone.

'There remains a rest'; a rest which stands not now in signs and
shadows, in the seventh day, or Canaan, but in the Son of God, and
his kingdom, to whom, and to which the weary are invited to come
for rest (Isa 28:12; Matt 11:20; Heb 4:11).

Yet this casts not out the Christians holiday or sabbath: for that
was not ordained to be a type or shadow of things to come, but
to sanctify the name of their God in, and to perform that worship
to him which was also in a shadow signified by the ceremonies of
the law, as the epistle to the Hebrews doth plentifully declare.

And I say again, the seventh day sabbath cannot be it, for the
reasons shewed afore.

Eighth, Especially if you add to all this, that nothing of the
ministration of death written and engraven in stones, is brought
by Jesus, or by his apostles, into the kingdom of Christ, as a part
of his instituted worship. Hence it is said of that ministration
in the bowels of which this seventh day sabbath is found, that it
has now NO glory; that its glory is done away, in or by Christ,
and so is laid aside, the ministration of the Spirit that excels
in glory, being come in the room thereof.

I will read the text to you. 'But if the ministration of death,
written and engraven in stones, was glorious, so that the children
of Israel could not stedfastly behold the face of Moses for the
glory of his countenance; which glory was to be done away: [It
was given at first with this proviso, that it should not always
retain its glory, that sanction, as a ministration]. How shall not
the ministration of the Spirit be rather glorious? For if the
ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration
of righteousness exceed in glory. For even that which was made
glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that
excelleth. For if that which was done away was glorious, much more
that which remaineth is glorious' (2 Cor 3:7-11).

What can be more plain? The text says expressly, that this
ministration doth NOT remain; yea, and insinuates, that in its
first institution it was ordained with this proviso, 'It was to
be done away.' Now if in its first institution upon Sinai it was
thus ordained; and if by the coming in of the ministration of
the spirit, this ordination is now executed; that is, if by it,
and the apostle saith it, it is done away by a ministration that
remains: then where is that seventh day sabbath?

Thus therefore I have discoursed upon this fourth question: And
having shewed by this discourse that the old seventh day sabbath
is abolished and done away, and that it has nothing to do with the
churches of the Gentiles; I am next to shew what day it is that
must abide as holy to the Christians, and for them to perform
their New Testament church service in.

Take the question thus.


QUESTION V.

Since it is denied that the seventh day sabbath is moral, and
it is found that it is not to abide as a sabbath for ever in the
church, What time is to be fixed on for New Testament saints to
perform together, divine worship to God by Christ in?

Upon this question hangs the stress of all, as to the subject now
under consideration: but before I can speak distinctly to it, I
must premise, as I have in order to my speaking to the questions
before, something for the better clearing of our way--

[Therefore I remark, that] we are not now speaking of all manner
of worshipping God, nor of all times in which all manner of worship
is to be performed; but of that worship, which is church worship,
or worship that is to be performed by the assembly of saints,
when by the will of God they in all parts of his dominion assemble
together to worship him; which worship hath a prefixed time
allotted to, or for its performance, and without which it cannot,
according to the mind of God, be done. This is the time, I say,
that we are to discourse of, and not of ALL time appointed for
all manner of worship.

I do not question but that worship by the godly is performed to
God every day of the week; yea, and every night too, and that
time is appointed or allowed of God for the performance of such
worship. But this time is not fixed to the same moment or hour
universally, but is left to the discretion of the believers, as
their frame of spirit, or occasions, or exigencies, or temptations,
or duty shall require.

We meddle then only with that time that the worship aforesaid is
to be performed in; which time the law of nature as such supposes,
but the God of nature chooses. And this time as to the churches of
the Gentiles, we have proved is not that time which was assigned
to the Jews, to wit, THAT seventh day which was imposed upon them
by the ministration of death; for, as we have shewed already, that
ministration indeed is done away by a better and more glorious
ministration, the ministration of the spirit; which ministration
surely would be much more inferior than that which has now no
glory, was it defective as to this. That is, if it imposed a gospel
service, but appointed not time to perform that worship in: or
if notwithstanding all its commendation, it should be forced to
borrow of a ministration inferior to itself; that, to wit, the time
without which by no means its most solemn worship can be performed.

This then is the conclusion, that TIME to worship God in, is
required by the law of nature; but that the law of nature doth,
as such, fix it on the seventh day from the creation of the world,
that I utterly deny, by what I have said already, and have yet to
say on that behalf. Yea, I hope to make it manifest, as I have,
that this seventh day is removed; that God, by the ministration
of the spirit, has changed the time to another day, to wit, The
first day of the week. Therefore we conclude the time is fixed
for the worship of the New Testament Christians, or churches of
the Gentiles, unto that day.

Now in my discourse upon this subject, I shall,

I. Touch upon those texts that are more close, yet have a divine
intimation of this thing in them.

II. And then I shall come to texts more express.

FIRST, for those texts that are more close, yet have a divine
intimation of this thing in them.

First, The comparison that the Holy Ghost makes between the rest
of God from his works, and the rest of Christ from his, doth
intimate such a thing. 'He that is entered into his rest, he also
hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his' (Heb 4:10).

Now God rested from his works, and sanctified a day of rest to
himself, as a signal of that rest, which day he also gave to his
church as a day of holy rest likewise. And if Christ thus rested
from his own works, and the Holy Ghost says he did thus rest, he
also hath sanctified a day to himself, as that in which he hath
finished his work, and given it (that day) also to his church to
be an everlasting memento of his so doing, and that they should
keep it holy for his sake.

And see, as the Father's work was first, so his day went before;
and as the Son's work came after, so his day accordingly succeeded.
The Father's day was on the seventh day from the creation, the
Son's the first day following.

Nor may this be slighted, because the text says, as God finished
his work, so Christ finished his; He also hath ceased from his
own works as God did from his. He rested, I say, as God did; but
God rested on his resting day, and therefore so did Christ. Not
that he rested on the Father's resting day; for it is evident,
that then he had great part of his work to do; for he had not as
then got his conquest over death, but the next day he also entered
into his rest, having by his rising again, finished his work, viz.,
made a conquest over the powers of darkness, and brought life and
immortality to light through his so doing.

So then, that being the day of the rest of the Son of God, it must
needs be the day of the rest of his churches also. For God gave
his resting day to his church to be a sabbath; and Christ rested
from his own works as God did from his, therefore he also gave the
day in which he rested from his works, a sabbath to the churches,
as did the Father. Not that there are TWO sabbaths at once: the
Father's was imposed for a time, even until the Son's should come;
yea, as I have shewed you, even in the very time of its imposing
it was also ordained to be done away. Hence he saith, that
ministration 'was to be done away' (2 Cor 3:7). Therefore we plead
not for two sabbaths to be at one time, but that a succession of
time was ordained to the New Testament saints, or churches of the
Gentiles, to worship God in; which time is that in which the Son
rested from his own works as God did from his.

Second, Hence he calls himself, The 'Lord even of the sabbath
day,' as Luke 5; Matthew 12:8 shews. Now to be a LORD, is to have
dominion, dominion over a thing, and so power to alter or change
it according to that power; and where is he that dares say Christ
has not this absolutely! We will therefore conclude that it is
granted on all hands he hath. The question then is, Whether he
hath exercised that power to the demolishing or removing of the
Jews' seventh day, and establishing another in its room? The which
I think is easily answered, in that he did not rest from his own
works therein, but chose, for his own rest, to himself another
day.

Surely, had the Lord Jesus intended to have established the seventh
day to the churches of the Gentiles, he would himself in the first
place have rested from his own works therein; but since he passed
by that day, and took no notice of it, as to the finishing of
his own works, as God took notice of it when he had finished his;
it remains that he fixed upon another day, even the first of the
week; on which, by his rising again, and shewing himself to his
disciples before his passion, he made it manifest that he had
chosen, 'as Lord of the sabbath,' that day for his own rest:
consequently, and for the rest of his churches, and for his worship
to be solemnized in.

Third, And on THIS day some of the saints that slept arose, and
began their eternal sabbath (Matt 27:52,53). See how the Lord Jesus
hath glorified this day! Never was such a stamp of divine honour
put upon any other day, no not since the world began. 'And the
graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose,
and came out of the graves after his resurrection,' &c. That is,
they arose as soon as he was risen. But why was not all this done
on the seventh day? No, that day was set apart that saints might
adore God for the works of creation, and that saints through that
might look for redemption by Christ. But now a work more glorious
than that is to be done, and therefore another day is assigned
for the doing of it in. A work, I say, of redemption completed,
a day therefore by itself must be assigned for this; and some
of the saints to begin their eternal sabbath with God in heaven,
therefore a day by itself must be appointed for this. Yea, and
that this day might not want that glory that might attract the
most dim-sighted Christian to a desire after the sanction of it,
the resurrection of Christ, and also of those saints met together
on it: yea, they both did begin their eternal rest thereon.

Fourth, The psalmist speaks of a day that the Lord Jehovah, the
Son of God, has made; and saith, 'we will rejoice and be glad in
it.' But what day is this? Why the day in which Christ was made
the 'head of the corner,' which must be applied to the day in
which he was raised from the dead, which is the first of the week.

Hence Peter saith to the Jews, when he treateth of Christ before
them, and particularly of his resurrection. 'This is the stone
which WAS set at nought of you builders, which IS become the head
of the croner.' He was set at nought by them, the whole course of
his ministry unto his death, and was made the head of the corner
by God, on that day he rose from the dead. This day therefore
is the day that the Lord Jehovah has made a day of rejoicing to
the church of Christ, and we will rejoice and be glad in it (Psa
118:24).

For can it be imagined, that the Spirit by the prophet should thus
signalise this day for nothing; saying, 'This is the day which
the Lord hath made'; to no purpose? Yes, you may say, for the
resurrection of his son.

But I add, that that is not all, it is a day that the Lord has both
made for that, and that we might 'rejoice and be glad in it.'[17]
Rejoice, that is before the Lord while solemn divine worship
is performed on it, by all the people that shall partake of the
redemption accomplished then.

Fifth, God the Father again leaves such another stamp of divine
note and honour upon this day as he never before did leave upon
any; where he saith to our Lord, 'Thou art my Son, this day have
I begotten thee' (Acts 13:33). Still, I say, having respect to
the first day of the week; for that, and no other, is the day here
intended by the apostle. This day, saith God, is the day: 'And
as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to
return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give thee the
sure mercies of David. Wherefore he saith also in another Psalm,
Thou shalt not suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.' Wherefore
the day in which God did this work, is greater than that in which
he finished the work of creation; for his making of the creation
saved it not from corruption, but now he hath done a work which
corruption cannot touch, wherefore the day on which he did this,
has this note from his own mouth, THIS day, as a day that doth
transcend.

And, as I said, this day is the first of the week; for it was on
that day that God begat his beloved Son from the dead. This first
day of the week therefore, on it God found that pleasure which he
found not in the seventh day from the world's creation, for that
in it his Son did live again to him.

Now shall not Christians, when they do read that God saith, 'This
day,' and that too with reference to a work done on it by him, so
full of delight to him, and so full of life and heaven to them,
set also a remark upon it, saying, This was the day of God's
pleasure, for that his Son did rise thereon, and shall it not be
the day of my delight in him!

This is the day on which his Son was both begotten and born, and
became the first fruits to God of them that sleep; yea, and in
which also he was made by him the chief, and head of the corner;
and shall not we rejoice in it? (Acts 13:33; Heb 1:5; Col 1:18;
Rev 1:5).

Shall kings, and princes, and great men set a remark upon the day
of their birth and coronation, and expect that both subjects and
servants should do them high honour on that day, and shall the
day in which Christ was both begotten and born, be a day contemned
by Christians! And his name not be but of a common regard on that
day?

I say again, shall God, as with his finger, point, and that in
the face of the world, at this day, saying, 'Thou art my Son, this
day,' &c., and shall not Christians fear, and awake from their
employments, to worship the Lord on this day!

If God remembers it, well may I! If God says, and that with all
gladness of heart, 'Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten
thee!' may not! ought not I also to set this day apart to sing
the songs of my redemption in?

THIS day my redemption was finished.

This day my dear Jesus revived.

This day he was declared to be the Son of God with power.

Yea this is the day in which the Lord Jesus finished a greater
work than ever yet was done in the world; yea, a work in which the
Father himself was more delighted than he was in making of heaven
and earth. And shall darkness and the shadow of death stain this
day! Or shall a cloud dwell on this day! Shall God regard this
day from above! And shall not his light shine upon this day! What
shall be done to them that curse this day, and would not that the
stars should give their light thereon. This day! After this day
was come, God never, that we read of, made mention with delight,
of the old seventh day sabbath more.

Sixth, Nor is that altogether to be slighted, when he saith,
'When he bringeth in the first-begotten into the world, Let all
the angels of God worship him.' To wit, at that very time and day
(Heb 1:6).

I know not what our expositors say of this text, but to me it
seems to be meant of his resurrection from the dead; both because
the apostle is speaking of that (v 5), and closes that argument
with this text, 'Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee?
and again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
And again, when he bringeth in the first-begotten into the world,
he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.'

So then, for God's bringing of his first-begotten now into the
world, was by his raising him again from the dead after they by
crucifying of him had turned him out of the same.

Thus then God brought him into the world, never by them to be hurried
out of it again. For Christ being now raised from the dead, dies
no more; death hath no more dominion over him.

Now, saith the text, when he bringeth him thus into the world,
he requireth that worship be done unto HIM. When? That very day,
and that by all the angels of God. And if by all, then ministers
are not excluded; and if not ministers, then not churches; for
what is said to the angels, is said to the church itself (Rev
2:1-7,8,11,12,17,18,29, 3:1,6,7,13,14,22).

So then, if the question be asked, when they must worship him:
the answer is, when he brought him into the world, which was on
the first day of the week; for then he bringeth him again from the
dead, and gave the whole world and the government thereof into
his holy hand. This text therefore is of weight as to what we have
now under consideration, to wit, that the first day of the week,
the day in which God brought his first-begotten into the world,
should be the day of worshipping him by all the angels of God.

Seventh, Hence this day is called 'the Lord's day,' as John saith,
'I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day,' the day in which Jesus
rose from the dead (Rev 1:10).

'The Lord's day.' Every day, say some, is the Lord's day. Indeed
this for discourse sake may be granted; but strictly, no day can
so properly be called the Lord's day, as this first day of the
week; for that no day of the week or of the year has those badges
of the Lord's glory upon it, nor such divine grace put upon it as
has the first day of the week.

This we have already made appear in part, and shall make appear
much more before we have done therewith.

There is nothing, as I know of, that bears this title but the
Lord's supper, and this day (1 Cor 11:20; Rev 1:10). And since
Christians count it an abuse to allegorize the first, let them
also be ashamed to fantasticalize the last. The Lord's day is
doubtless the day in which he rose from the dead. To be sure it
is not the old seventh day; for from the day that he arose, to
the end of the Bible, we find not that he did hang so much as one
twist of glory upon that; but this day is beautified with glory
upon glory, and that both by the Father and the Son; by the prophets
and those that were raised from the dead thereon; therefore this
day must be more than the rest.

But we are as yet but upon divine intimations, drawn from such texts
which, if candidly considered, do very much smile upon this great
truth; namely, that the first day of the week is to be accounted
the Christian sabbath, or holy day for divine worship in the
churches of the saints. And SECOND, Now I come to the texts that
are more express.

Then First, This was the day in the which he did use to shew
himself to his people, and to congregate with them after he rose
from the dead. On the first first-day, even on the day on which
he rose from the dead, he visited his people, both when together
and apart, over, and over, and over, as both Luke and John do testify
(Luke 24; John 20). And preached such sermons of his resurrection,
and gave unto them; yea, and gave them such demonstration of the
truth of all, as was never given them from the foundation of the
world. Shewing, he shewed them his risen body; opening, he opened
their understandings; and dissipating, he so scattered their unbelief
on THIS day, as he never had done before. And this continued one
way or another even from before day until the evening.

Second, On the next first day following the church was within
again; that is, congregated to wait upon their Lord. And John so
relates the matter, as to give us to understand that they were not
so assembled together again till then. 'After eight days,' saith
he, 'again his disciples were within,' clearly concluding, that
they were not so on the days that were between, no not on the old
seventh day.

Now why should the Holy Ghost thus precisely speak of their
assembling together upon the first day, if not to confirm us in
this, that the Lord had chosen that day for the new sabbath of his
church? Surely the Apostles knew what they did in their meeting
together upon that day; yea, and the Lord Jesus also; for that he
used so to visit them when so assembled, made his practice a law
unto them. For practice is enough for us New Testament saints,
especially when the Lord Jesus himself is in the head of that
practice, and that after he rose from the dead.

Perhaps some may stumble at the word 'after,' after eight days;
but the meaning is, at the conclusion of the eighth day, or when
they had spent in a manner the whole of their sabbath in waiting
upon their Lord, then in comes their Lord, and finisheth that
their day's service to him with confirming of Thomas' faith, and
by letting drop other most heavenly treasure among them. Christ
said, he must lie three days and three nights in the heart of the
earth, yet it is evident, that he rose the third day (1 Cor 15:4).

We must take then a part for the whole, and conclude, that from
the time that the Lord Jesus rose from the dead, to the time that
he shewed his hands and his side to Thomas, eight days were almost
expired; that is, he had sanctified unto them two first days,
and had accepted that service they had performed to him therein,
as he testified by giving of them so blessed a farewell at the
conclusion of both those days.

Hence now we conclude, that this was the custom of the church at
this day, to wit, upon the first day of the week to meet together,
and to wait upon their Lord therein. For the Holy Ghost counts it
needless to make a continued repetition of things; it is enough
therefore if we have now and then mention made thereof.

Obj. But Christ shewed himself alive to them at other times also,
as in John 21 &c.

Ans. The names of all those days in which he so did are obliterated
and blotted out, that they might not be idolized; for Christ did
not set them apart for worship, but this day, the first day of
the week, by its name is kept alive in the church, the Holy Ghost
surely signifying thus much, that how hidden soever other days
were, Christ would have his day, the first day had in everlasting
remembrance among saints.

Churches also meet together now on the week days, and have the
presence of Christ with them too in their employments; but that
takes not off from them the sanction of the first day of the week,
no more than it would take away the sanction of the old seventh
day, had it still continued holy to them: wherefore this is no
let or objection to hinder our sanctifying of the first day of
the week to our God. But,

Third, Add to this, that upon Pentecost, which was the first day
of the week, mention is made of their being together again: for
Pentecost was always the morrow after the sabbath, the old seventh
day sabbath. Upon this day, I say, the Holy Ghost saith, they were
again 'with one accord together in one place.'

But oh! the glory that then attended them, by the presence of the
Holy Ghost among them: never was such a thing done as was done on
that first day until then. We will read the text, 'And when the
day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord
in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a
rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were
sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of
fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with
the Holy Ghost' (Acts 2:1-4).

Here is a first day glorified! Here's a countenance given to the
day of their Christian assembling. But we will note a few things
upon it.

1. The church was now, as on other first days, all with one accord
in one place. We read not that they came together by virtue of
any precedent revelation, nor by accident, but contrariwise by
agreement, they were together 'with one accord,' or by appointment,
in pursuance of their duty, setting apart that day, as they had
done the first days afore, to the holy service of their blessed
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

2. We read that this meeting of theirs was not begun on the old
sabbaths, but when Pentecost was fully come: the Holy Ghost
intimating, that they had left now, and began to leave, the seventh
day sabbath to the unbelieving Jews.

3. Nor did the Holy Ghost come down upon them till every moment of
the old sabbath was past, Pentecost, as was said, was FULLY come
first. 'And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were
all with one accord in one place.' And then, &c.

And why was not this done on the seventh day sabbath? But, possibly,
to shew, that the ministration of death and condemnation was not
that, by or through which Christ the Lord would communicate so
good a gift unto his churches (Gal 3:1-5).

This gift must be referred to the Lord's day, the first day of the
week, to fulfil the scripture, and to sanctify yet farther this
holy day unto the use of all New Testament churches of the saints.
For since on the first day of the week our Lord did rise from
the dead, and by his special presence, I mean his personal, did
accompany his church therein, and so preach as he did, his holy
truths unto them, it was most meet that they on the same day
also should receive the first fruits of their eternal life most
gloriously.

And, I say again, since from the resurrection of Christ to this
day, the church then did receive upon the first day, but as we
read, upon no other, such glorious things as we have mentioned,
it is enough to beget in the hearts of them that love the Son
of God, a high esteem of the first day of the week. But how much
more, when there shall be joined to these, proof that it was the
custom of the first gospel church, the church of Christ at Jerusalem,
after our Lord was risen, to assemble together to wait upon God
on the first day of the week with their Lord as leader.

To say little more to this head, but only to repeat what is
written of this day of old, to wit, that it should be proclaimed
the selfsame day, to wit, the morrow after the sabbath, which is
the first day of the week, 'that it may be an holy convocation unto
you; ye shall do no servile work therein: it shall be a statute
for ever in all your dwellings' (Lev 23:21).

This ceremony was about the sheaf that was to be waved, and bread
of first fruits, which was a type of Christ; for he is unto God
'the first fruits of them that slept' (1 Cor 15:20).

This sheaf, or bread, must not be waved on the old seventh day,
but on the morrow after, which is the first day of the week, the
day in which Christ rose from the dead, and waved himself as the
first fruits of the elect unto God. Now from this day they were
to count seven sabbaths complete, and on the morrow after the
seventh sabbath, which was the first day of the week again; and
this Pentecost upon which we now are, then they were to have a
new meat offering, with meat offerings and drink offerings, &c.

And on the selfsame day they were to proclaim that that first day
should be a holy convocation unto them. The which the apostles
did, and grounded that their proclamation so on the resurrection
of Jesus Christ, not on ceremonies, that at the same day they
brought three thousand souls to God (Acts 2:41).

Now what another signal [applause] was here put upon the first
day of the week! The day in which our Lord rose from the dead,
assembled with his disciples, poured out so abundantly of the
Spirit, and gathered even by the first draught that his fishermen
made by the gospel, such a number of souls to God.

Thus then they proclaimed, and thus they gathered sinners on the
first first-day that they preached; for though they had assembled
together over and over with their Lord before therein, yet they
began not jointly to preach until this first day Pentecost.

Now, after this the apostles to the churches did never make mention
of a seventh day sabbath. For as the wave sheaf and the bread of
first fruits were a figure of the Lord Jesus, and the waving, of
his life from the dead: so that morrow after the sabbath on which
the Jews waved their sheaf, was a figure of that on which our
Lord did rise; consequently, when their morrow after the sabbath
ceased, our morrow after that began, and so has continued a blessed
morrow after their sabbath, as a holy sabbath to Christians from
that time ever since.

Fourth, We come yet more close to the custom of churches; I mean,
to the custom of the churches of the Gentiles; for as yet we
have spoken but of the practice of the church of God which was at
Jerusalem; only we will add, that the customs that were laudable
and binding with the church at Jerusalem, were with reverence to
be imitated by the churches of the Gentiles; for there was but
one law of Christ for them both to worship by.

Now then, to come to the point, to wit, that it was the custom of
the churches of the Gentiles, on the first day of the week, but
upon no other that we read of,[18] to come together to perform
divine worship to their Lord.

Hence it is said 'And upon the first day of the week, when the
disciples came together to break bread,' &c. (Acts 20:7). This is
a text, that as to matter of fact cannot be contradicted by any,
for the text saith plainly they did so, the disciples then came
together to break bread, the disciples among the Gentiles, did
so.

Thus you see that the solemnizing of a first day to holy uses was
not limited to, though first preached by the church that was at
Jerusalem. The church at Jerusalem was the mother church, and not
that at Rome, as some falsely imagine; for from this church went
out the law and the holy word of God to the Gentiles. Wherefore
it must be supposed that this meeting of the Gentiles on the first
day of the week to break bread, came to them by holy tradition[19]
from the church at Jerusalem, since they were the first that kept
the first day as holy unto the Lord their God.

And indeed, they had the best advantage to do it; for they had
their Lord in the head of them to back them to it by his presence
and preaching thereon.

But we will a little comment upon the text. 'Upon the first day
of the week.' Thus you see the day is nominated, and so is kept
alive among the churches. For in that the day is nominated on which
this religious exercise was performed, it is to be supposed that
the Holy Ghost would have it live, and be taken notice of by the
churches that succeed.

It also may be nominated to shew, that both the church at Jerusalem,
and those of the Gentiles did harmonize in their sabbath, jointly
concluding to solemnize worship on a [the same] day. And then again
to shew, that they all had left the old sabbath to the unbelievers,
and jointly chose to sanctify the day of the rising of their Lord,
to this work.

They 'came together to break bread,' to partake of the super of
the Lord. And what day so fit as the Lord's day for this? This was
to be the work of that day, to wit, to solemnize that ordinance
among themselves, adjoining other solemn worship thereto, to fill
up the day, as the following part of the verse shews. This day
therefore was designed for this work, the whole day, for the text
declares it. The first day of the week was set by them apart for
this work.

'Upon THE first day'; not upon A first day, or upon one first day,
or upon such a first day; for had he said so, we had had from
thence not so strong an argument for our purpose: but when he
saith, 'upon the first day of the week' they did it, he insinuates,
that it was their custom. [It was] also upon one of these, [that]
Paul being among them, preached unto them, ready to depart on the
morrow. Upon the first day: what, or which first day of this, or
that, of the third or fourth week of the month? No, but upon the
first day, every first day; for so the text admits us to judge.

'Upon the first day of the week, WHEN the disciples came together,'
supposes a custom when, or as they were wont to come together to
perform such service among themselves to God: then Paul preached
unto them, &c.

It is a text also that supposes an agreement among themselves as
to this thing. They came together then to break bread; they had
appointed to do it then, for that then was the day of their Lord's
resurrection, and that in which he himself congregated after he
revived, with the first gospel church, the church at Jerusalem.

Thus you see, that breaking of bread, was the work, the work that
by general consent was agreed to be by the churches of the Gentiles
performed upon the first day of the week. I say, by the churches;
for I doubt not but that the practice here, was also the practice
of the rest of the Gentile churches, even as it had been before
the practice of the church at Jerusalem.

For this practice now did become universal, and so this text implies;
for he speaks here universally of the practice of all disciples
as such, though he limits Paul preaching to that church with whom
he at present personally was. Upon the first day of the week,
'when the disciples came together to break bread,' Paul being at
that time at Troas preached to them on that day.

Thus then you see how the Gentile churches did use to break bread,
not on the old sabbath, but on the first day of the week. And, I
say, they had it from the church at Jerusalem; where the apostles
were first seated, and beheld the way of their Lord with their
eyes.

Now, I say, since we have so ample an example, not only of the
church at Jerusalem, but also of the churches of the Gentiles, for
the keeping of the first day to the Lord, and that as countenanced
by Christ and his apostles, we should not be afraid to tread in
their steps, for their practice is the same with law and commandment.
But,

Fifth, We will add to this another text. 'Now [saith Paul]
concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order
to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye. Upon the first day of
the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath
prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come' (1 Cor
16:1,2).

This text some have greatly sought to evade, counting the duty
here, on this day to be done, a duty too inferior for the sanction
of an old seventh day sabbath; when yet to show mercy to an ass
on the old sabbath, was a work which our Lord no ways condemns
(Luke 13:15, 14:5).

But to pursue our design, we have a duty enjoined, and that of
no inferior sort. If charity be indeed as it is, the very bond of
perfectness: and if without it all our doings, yea and sufferings
too, are not worthy so much as a rush (1 Cor 13; Col 3:14). we
have here a duty, I say, that a seventh day sabbath, when in force,
was not too big for it to be performed in.

The work now to be done, was, as you see, to bestow their charity
upon the poor; yea, to provide for time to come. And I say, it
must be collected upon the first day of the week. Upon THE first
day; not A first day, as signifying one or two, but upon THE
first day, even every first day; for so your ancient Bibles have
it;[20] also our later must be so understood, or else Paul had left
them to whom he did write, utterly at a loss. For if he intended
not every first day, and yet did not specify a particular one, it
could hardly even have been understood which first day he meant.
But we need not stand upon this. This work was a work for A
first-day, for EVERY first day of the week.

Note again that we have this duty here commanded and enforced by
an apostolical order: 'I have given order,' saith Paul, for this;
and his orders, as he saith in another place, 'are the commandments
of the Lord.' You have it in the same epistle (chap. 14:37).

Whence it follows, that there was given even by the apostles
themselves, a holy respect to the first day of the week above all
the days of the week; yea, or of the year besides.

Further, I find also by this text, that this order is universal.
I have, saith he, given this order not only to you, but to the
churches of Galatia. Consequently to all other that were concerned
in this collection (2 Cor 8, 9, &c.).

Now this, whatever others may think, puts yet more glory upon the
first day of the week. For in that all the churches are commanded,
as to make their collections, so to make them on this day: what
is it, but that this day, by reason of the sanction that Christ
put upon it, was of virtue to sanctify the offering through and
by Christ Jesus, as the altar and temple afore did sanctify the
gift and gold that was, and was offered on them. The proverb is,
'The better day, the better deed.' And I believe, that things
done on the Lord's day, are better done, than on other days of
the week, in his worship.

Obj. But yet, say some, here are no orders to keep this first day
holy to the Lord.

Ans. 1. That is supplied; for that by this very text this day is
appointed, above all the days of the week, to do this holy duty
in.

2.. You must understand that this order is but additional, and
now enjoined to fill up that which was begun as to holy exercise
of religious worship by the churches long before.

3. The universality of the duty being enjoined to this day, supposes
that this day was universally kept by the churches as holy already.

4. And let him that scrupleth this, shew me, if he can, that God
by the mouth of his apostles did ever command that all the churches
should be confined to this or that duty on such a day, and yet
put no sanction upon that day; or that he has commanded that this
work should be done on the first day of the week, and yet has
reserved other church ordinances as a public solemnization of
worship to him, to be done of another day, as of a day more fit,
more holy.

5. If charity, if a general collection for the saints in the
churches is commanded on this day, and on no other day but this
day; for church collection is commanded on no other, there must
be a reason for it: and if that reason had not respect to the
sanction of the day, I known to why the duty should be so strictly
confined to it.

6. But for the apostle now to give with this a particular command
to the churches to sanctify that day as holy unto the Lord, had
been utterly superfluous; for that they already, and that by the
countenance of their Lord, and his church at Jerusalem, had done.

Before now, I say, it was become a custom, as by what hath been
said already is manifest: wherefore what need that their so solemn
a practice be imposed again upon the brethren? An intimation now
of a continued respect thereto, by the very naming of the day, is
enough to keep the sanctity thereof on foot in the churches. How
much more then, when the Lord is still adding holy duty to holy
duty, to be performed upon that day. So then, in that the apostle
writes to the churches to do this holy duty on the first day of
the week, he puts them in mind of the sanction of the day,
and insinuates, that he would still have them have a due respect
thereto.

Quest. But is there yet another reason why this holy duty should,
in special as it is, be commanded to be performed on the first
day of the week?

Ans. 1. Yes: for that now the churches were come together in their
respective places, the better to agree about collections, and to
gather them. You know church worship is a duty, so long as we are
in the world, and so long also is this of making collections for
the saints. And for as much as the apostle speaks here, as I have
hinted afore, of a church collection, when is it more fit to be
done, than when the church is come together upon the first day of
the week to worship God?

2. This part of worship is most comely to be done upon the first
day of the week, and that at the close of that day's work. For
thereby the church shows, not only her thankfulness to God for
a sabbath day's mercy, but also returneth him, by giving to the
poor, that sacrifice for their benefit that is most behoveful to
make manifest their professed subjection to Christ (Prov 19:17;
2 Cor 9:12-15). It is therefore necessary, that this work be done
on the first day of the week, for a comely close of the worship
that we perform to the Lord our God on that day.

3. On the first day of the week, when the church is performing of
holy worship unto God, then that of collection for the saints is
most meet to be performed; because then, in all likelihood, our
hearts will be most warm with the divine presence; consequently
most open and free to contribute to the necessity of the saints.
You know, that a man when his heart is open, is taken with some
excellent thing; then, if at all, it is most free to do something
for the promoting thereof.

Why, waiting upon God in the way of his appointments, opens, and
makes free, the heart to the poor: and because the first day of
the week was it in which now such solemn service to him was done,
therefore also the apostle commanded, that upon the same day also,
as on a day most fit, this duty of collecting for the poor should
be done. 'For God loveth a cheerful giver' (2 Cor 9:6,7).

Wherefore the apostle by this, takes the churches as it were at
the advantage, and as we say, [strikes] while the iron is hot,
to the intent he might, what in him lay, make their collections,
not sparing nor of a grudging mind, but to flow from cheerfulness.
And the first day of the week, though its institution be set aside,
doth most naturally tend to this; because it is the day, the only
day, on which we received such blessings from God (Acts 3:26).

This is the day on which, at first, it rained manna all day long
from heaven upon the new testament church, and so continues to do
this day.

Oh! the resurrection of Christ, which was on this day, and the
riches that we receive thereby. Though it should be, and is, I
hope thought on every day; yet when the first of the week is fully
come! Then to-day! This day! This is the day to be warmed; this
day he was begotten from the dead.

The thought of this, will do much with an honest mind: this is the
day, I say, that the first saints did find, and that after saints
do find the blessings of God come down upon them; and therefore
this is the day here commanded to be set apart for holy duties.

And although what I have said may be but little set by of some,
yet, for a closing word as to this, I do think, could but half
so much be produced from the day Christ rose from the dead quite
down [to the end of revelation], for the sanction of a seventh day
sabbath in the churches of the Gentiles, it would much sway with
me. But the truth is, neither doth the apostle Paul, nor any of
his fellows, so much as once speak one word to the churches that
shows the least regard, as to conscience to God, of a seventh day
sabbath more. No, the first day, the first day, the first day, is
now all the cry in the churches by the apostles, for the performing
church worship in to God. Christ began it on THAT day: then the
Holy Ghost seconded it on that day: then the churches practised
it on that day. And to conclude; the apostle by the command now
under consideration, continues the sanction of that day to the
churches to the end of the world.

But as to the old seventh day sabbath, as hath been said afore in
this treatise, Paul, who is the apostle of the Gentiles, has so
taken away that whole ministration in the bowels of which it is;
yea, and has so stript it of its old testament grandeur, both by
terms and arguments, that it is strange to me it should by any be
still kept up in the churches; specially, since the same apostle,
and that at the same time, has put a better ministration in its
place (2 Cor 3).

But when the consciences of good men are captivated with an error,
none can stop them from a prosecution thereof, as if were itself
of the best of truths.

Obj. But Paul preached frequently on the old sabbath, and that
after the resurrection of Christ.

Ans. To the unbelieving Jews and their proselytes, I grant he
did. But we read not that he did it to any new testament church
on that day: nor did he celebrate the instituted worship of Christ
in the churches on that day. For Paul, who had before cast out
the ministration of death, as that which had no glory, would not
now take thereof any part for new testament instituted worship;
for he knew that that would veil the heart, and blind the mind
from that, which yet instituted worship was ordained to discover.

He preached then on the seventh day sabbath, of a divine and crafty
love to the salvation of the unbelieving Jews.

I say, he preached now on that day to them and their proselytes,
because that day was theirs by their estimation. He did it, I say,
of great love to their souls, that if possible, he might save some
of them.

Wherefore, if you observe, you shall still find, that where it is
said that he preached on that day, it was to that people, not to
the churches of Christ. See Acts 9:20, 13:14-16, 16:13, 17:1-3,
18:4.

Thus, though he had put away the sanction of that day as to himself,
and had left the Christians that were weak to their liberty as to
conscience to it, yet he takes occasion upon it to preach to the
Jews that still were wedded to it, the faith, that they might be
saved by grace.

Paul did also many other things that were Jewish and ceremonial,
for which he had, as then, no conscience at all, as to any sanction
that he believed was in them.

As his circumcising of Timothy (Acts 16:1-3).

His shaving of his head (Acts 18:18).

His submitting to Jewish purifications (Acts 21:24-26).

His acknowledging of himself a Pharisee (chap. 23:6).

His implicitly owning of Ananias for high priest after Christ was
risen from the dead (Acts 23:1-5).

He tells us also that, 'unto the Jews he became as a Jew' that he
might save the Jew. And 'without law,' to them that were without
law, that also he might gain them. Yea, he became, as he saith,
'all things to all men,' that he might gain the more, as it is 1
Corinthians 9:19-23.

But these things, as I said, he did not of conscience to the
things; for he knew that their sanction was gone. Nor would he
suffer them to be imposed upon the churches directly or indirectly;
no, not by Peter himself (Gal 2:11).

Were I in Turkey with a church of Jesus Christ, I would keep the
first day of the week to God, and for the edification of his
people: and would also preach the word to the infidels on their
sabbath day, which is our Friday; and be glad too, if I might
have such opportunity to try to persuade them to a love of their
own salvation.

Obj. But if the seventh day sabbath is, as you say, to be laid
aside by the churches of the Gentiles, why doth Christ say to
his, 'Pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on
the sabbath day?' For, say some, by this saying it appears, that
the old seventh day sabbath, as you have called it, will as to
the sanction of it, abide in force after Christ is ascended into
heaven.

Ans. I say first, these words were spoken to the Jewish Christians,
not to the Gentile churches. And the reason of this first hint,
you will see clearer afterwards.

The Jews had several sabbaths; as, their seventh day sabbath, their
monthly sabbaths, their sabbath of years, and their jubilee (Lev
25).

Now if he means their ordinary sabbaths, or that called the seventh
day sabbath, why doth he join the winter thereto? for in that he
joineth the winter with that sabbath that he exhorteth them to
pray their flight might not be in, it should seem that he meaneth
rather their sabbath of years, or their jubilee, which did better
answer one to another than one day and a winter could.

And I say again, that Christ should suppose that their flight
should, or might last some considerable part of a winter, and
yet that then they should have their rest on those seventh day
sabbaths, is a little beside my reason, if it be considered again,
that the Gentiles before whom they were then to fly, were enemies
to their sabbath, and consequently would take opportunity at their
sabbaths to afflict them so much the more. Wherefore, I would that
they who plead for a continuation of the seventh day sabbath from
this text, would both better consider it, and the incoherence that
seems to be betwixt such a sabbath and a winter.

But again, were it granted that it is the seventh day sabbath that
Christ here intendeth; yet, since as we have proved, the sanction
before this was taken away; I mean before this flight should be,
he did not press them to pray thus because by any law of heaven
they should then be commanded to keep it holy; but because some
would, through their weakness, have conscience of it till then.
And such would, if their flight should happen thereon, be as much
grieved and perplexed, as if it yet stood obligatory to them by
a law.

This seems to have some truth in it, because among the Jews that
believed, there continued a long time many that were wedded yet to
the law, to the ceremonial part thereof, and were not so clearly
evangelized as the churches of the Gentiles were. 'Thou seest
brother,' said James to Paul, 'how many thousands of Jews there are
which believe; and they are all zealous of the law' (Acts 21:20,
15:5).

Of these, and such weak unbelieving Jews, perhaps Christ speaks,
when he gives this exhortation to them to pray thus; whose
consciences he knew would be weak, and being so, would bind when
they were entangled with an error, as fast as if it bound by a
law indeed.

Again, though the seventh day sabbath and ceremonies lost their
sanction at the resurrection of Christ, yet they retained some kind
of being in the church of the Jews, until the desolation spoken
of by Daniel should be.

Hence it is said, that then the oblation and sacrifices shall
cease (Dan 9:27). And hence it is, that Jerusalem and the temple
are still called the holy place, even until this flight should be
(Matt 24:15).

Now if Jerusalem and the temple are still called holy, even after
the body and substance, of which they were shadows, were come;
then no marvel though some to that day that believed were entangled
therewith, &c. For it may very well be supposed that all conscience
of them would not be quite taken away, until all reason for that
conscience should be taken away also. But when Jerusalem, and the
temple, and the Jews' worship, by the Gentiles was quite extinct
by ruins, then in reason that conscience did cease. And it seems
by some texts, that all conscience to them was not taken away
till then.

Quest. But what kind of being had the seventh day sabbath, and
other Jewish rites and ceremonies, that by Christ's resurrection
were taken away?

Ans. These things had a virtual and a nominal being. As to their
virtual being, that died that day Christ did rise from the dead,
they being crucified with him on the cross (Col 2).

But now, when the virtual being was gone, they still with the weak
retained their name, among many of the Jews that believed, until
the abomination that maketh desolate stood in the holy place: for
in Paul's time they were, as to that, but ready to vanish away.

Now, I say, they still retaining their nominal grandeur, though
not by virtue of a law, they could not, till time and dispensation
came, be swept out of the way. We will make what hath been said,
as to this, out by a familiar similitude.

There is a lord or great man dies; now being dead, he has lost
his virtual life. He has now no relation to a wife, to children,
virtually; yet his name still abides, and that in that family, to
which otherwise he is dead. Wherefore they embalm him, and also
keep him above ground for many days. Yea, he is still reverenced
by those of the family, and that in several respects. Nor doth
any thing but time and dispensation wear this name away.

Thus then the Old Testament signs and shadows went off the stage
in the church of Christ among the Jews. They lost their virtue
and signification when Christ nailed them to his cross (Col 2).
But as to their name, and the grandeur that attended that, it
continued with many that were weak, and vanished not, but when
the abomination that made them desolate came.

The sum then and conclusion of the matter is this; the seventh
day sabbath lost its glory when that ministration in which it was,
lost its: But yet the name thereof might abide a long time with
the Jewish legal Christians, and so might become obligatory still,
though not by the law, to their conscience, even as circumcision
and other ceremonies did: and to them it would be as grievous to
fly on that day, as if by law it was still in force.

For, I say, to a weak conscience, that law which has lost its
life, may yet through their ignorance, be as binding as if it
stood still upon the authority of God.

Things then become obligatory these two ways. (1.) By an institution
of God. (2.) By the over-ruling power of a man's misinformed
conscience. And although by virtue of an institution divine worship
is acceptable to God by Christ, yet conscience will make that a
man shall have but little ease if such rules and dictates as it
imposes be not observed by him.

This is my answer, upon a supposition that the seventh day sabbath
is in this text intended: and the answer, I think, stands firm
and good.

Also, there remains, notwithstanding this objection, no divine
sanction in or upon the old seventh day sabbath.

Some indeed will urge, that Christ here meant the first day of
the week, which here he puts under the term of sabbath. But this
is foreign to me, so I waive it till I receive more satisfaction
in the thing.

Quest. But if indeed the first day of the week be the new christian
sabbath, why is there no more spoken of its institution in the
testament of Christ?

Ans. No more! What need is there of more than enough! Yea, there
is a great deal found in the testament of the Lord Jesus to prove
its authority divine.

(1.) For we have shewed from sundry scriptures, that from the very
day our Lord did rise from the dead, the church at Jerusalem, in
which the twelve apostles were, did meet together on that day, and
had the Lord himself for their preacher, while they were auditors;
and thus the day began.

(2.) We have shewed that the Holy Ghost, the third person in the
Trinity, did second this of Christ, in coming down from heaven
upon this day to manage the apostles in their preaching; and in
that very day so managed them in that work, that by his help they
then did bring three thousand souls to God.

(3.) We have shewed also, that after this the gentile churches did
solemnize this day for holy worship, and that they had from Paul
both countenance and order so to do.

And now I will add, that more need not be spoken: for the practice
of the first church, with their Lord in the head of them to manage
them in that practice, is as good as many commands. What then
shall we say, when we see a first practice turned into holy custom?

I say, moreover, that though a seventh day sabbath is not natural
to man as man, yet our christian holy day is natural to us as
saints, if our consciences are not clogged before with some old
fables, or Jewish customs.

But if an old religion shall get footing and rooting in us, though
the grounds thereof be vanished away, yet the man concerned will
be hard put to it, should he be saved, to get clear of his clouds,
and devote himself to that service of God which is of his own
prescribing.

Luther himself, though he saw many things were without ground which
he had received for truth, had yet work hard enough, as himself
intimates, to get his conscience clear from all those roots and
strings of inbred error.

But, I say, to an untainted and well bred Christian, we have good
measure, shaken together, and running over, for our christian
Lord's day. And I say again, that the first day of the week, and
the spirit of such a Christian, suit one another as nature suiteth
nature; for there is as it were a natural instinct in Christians,
as such, when they understand what in a first day was brought
forth, to fall in therewith to keep it holy to their Lord.

1. The first day of the week! Why it was the day of our life. 'After
two days he will revive us,' and in the third day 'we shall live
in his sight.' 'After two days' there is the Jews' preparation,
and seventh day sabbath, quite passed over; and in the third day,
that is the first day of the week, which is the day our Lord did
rise from the dead, we began to live by him in the sight of God
(Hosea 6:2; John 20:1; 1 Cor 15:4).

2. The first day of the week! That is the day in which, as I hinted
before, our Lord was wont to preach to his disciples after he rose
form the dead; in which also he did use to shew them his hands
and his feet (Luke 24:38,39; John 20:25). To the end they might
be confirmed in the truth of his victory over death and the grave
for them. The day in which he made himself known to them in breaking
bread. The day in which he so plentifully poured out the Holy Ghost
upon them. The day in which the church, both at Jerusalem and
those of the Gentiles, did use to perform to God divine worship:
all which has before been sufficiently proved. And shall we not
imitate our Lord, nor the church that was immediately acted[21]
by him in this, and the churches their fellows? Shall, I say, the
Lord Jesus do all this in his church, and they together with him!
Shall the churches of the Gentiles also fall in with their Lord
and with their mother at Jerusalem herein! And again, shall all
this be so punctually committed to sacred story, with the day in
which these things were done, under denomination, over and over,
saying, These things were done on the first day, on the first
day, on the first day of the week, while all other days are, as to
name, buried in everlasting oblivion! And shall we not take that
notice thereof as to follow the Lord Jesus and the churches herein?
Oh stupidity!

3. This day of the week! They that make but observation of what
the Lord did of old, to as many sinners, and with his churches on
this day, must needs conclude, that in this day the treasures of
heaven were broken up, and the richest things therein communicated
to his church. Shall the children of this world be, as to this
also, wiser in their generations than the children of light, and
former saints, upon whose shoulders we pretend to stand, go beyond
us here also.

Jacob could by observation gather that the place where he lay down
to sleep was no other but the house of God, and the very gate of
heaven (Gen 28:17).

Laban could gather by observation, that the Lord blessed him for
Jacob's sake (Gen 30:27).

David could gather by what he met with upon Mount Moriah, that that
was the place where God would have the temple builded, therefore
he sacrificed there (1 Chron 21:26-28, 22:1,2; 2 Chron 3:1).

Ruth was to mark the place where Boaz lay down to sleep, and shall
not Christians also mark the day in which our Lord rose from the
dead (Ruth 3:4).

I say, shall we not mark it, when so many memorable things were
done on it, for, and to and in the churches of God! Let saints be
ashamed to think that such a day should be looked over, or counted
common, when tempted to it by Satan, when [it was] kept to religious
service of old, and when beautified with so many divine characters
of sanctity as we have proved, by Christ, his church, the Holy
Ghost, and the command of apostolical authority it was.

But why, I say, is this day, on which our Lord rose from the dead,
nominated as it is? why was it not sufficient to say 'he rose
again,' or, he rose again the third day? without a specification of
the very name of the day. For, as was said afore, Christ appeared
to his disciples, after his resurrection, on other days also, yea,
and thereon did miracles to. Why then did not these days live?
Why was their name, for all that, blotted out, and this day only
kept alive in the churches?

The day on which Christ was born of a virgin; the day of his
circumcision, the day of his baptism, and of his transfiguration,
are not by their names committed by the Holy Ghost to holy writ
to be kept alive in the world, nor yet such days in which he did
many great and wonderful things. But THIS day, this day is still
nominated; the first day of the week is the day. I say, why are
things thus left with us? But because we, as saints of old, should
gather, and separate, what is of divine authority from the rest.
For in that this day is so often nominated while all other days
lie dead in their graves, it is as much as if God should say,
Remember the first day of the week to keep it holy to the Lord
your God.

And set this aside, and I know not what reason can be rendered, or
what prophecy should be fulfilled by the bare naming of the day.

When God, of old, did sanctify for the use of his church a day,
as he did many, he always called them either by the name of the
day of the month, or of the week, or by some other signal by which
they might be certainly known, why should it not then be concluded,
that for this very reason the first day of the week is thus often
nominated by the Holy Ghost in the testament of Christ?

Moreover, he that takes away the first day, as to this service,
leaves us now no day, as sanctified of God, for his solemn worship
to be by his churches performed in. As for the seventh day sabbath,
that, as we have seen, is gone to its grave with the signs and
shadows of the Old Testament. Yea, and has such a dash left upon
it by apostolical authority, that it is enough to make a Christian
fly from it for ever (2 Cor 3).

Now, I say, since that is removed by God: if we should suffer the
first day also to be taken away by man, what day that has a divine
stamp upon it, would be left for us to worship God in?

Alas! the first day of the week is the Christian's market day,
that which they so solemnly trade in for sole provision for all
the week following. This is the day that they gather manna in. To
be sure the seventh day sabbath is not that. For of old the people
of God could never find manna on that day. 'On the seventh day
[said Moses] which is the sabbath, in it there shall be none' (Exo
16:26).

Any day of the week manna could be found, but on that day it was
not to be found upon the face of the ground. But now our first
day is the manna day; the only day that the churches of the New
Testament, even of old, did gather manna in. But more of this
anon.

Nor will it out of my mind but that it is a very high piece of
ingratitude, and of uncomely behaviour, to deny the Son of God
his day, the Lord's day, the day that he has made. And as we have
shewed already, this first day of the week is it; yea, and a great
piece of unmannerliness is it too, for any, notwithstanding the
old seventh day is so degraded as it is, to attempt to impose it on
the Son of God. To impose a day upon him which yet Paul denies to
be a branch of the ministration of the Spirit, and of righteousness.
Yea, to impose a part of that ministration which he says plainly
'which was done away,' for that a better ministration stript it
of its glory, is a high attempt indeed (2 Cor 3).

Yet again, the apostle smites the teachers of the law upon the
mouth, saying, 'understanding neither what they say, nor whereof
they affirm' (1 Tim 1:7).

The seventh day sabbath, was indeed God's rest from the works of
creation; but yet the rest that he found in what the first day of
the week did produce, for Christ was born from the dead on it,
more pleased him than did all the seventh days that ever the world
brought forth: wherefore, as I said before, it cannot be but that
the well-bred Christian must set apart this day for solemn worship
to God, and to sanctify his name therein.

Must the church of old be bound to remember that night in which
they did come out of Egypt! must Jephtha's daughter have four days
for the virgins of Israel yearly to lament her hard case in! Yea,
must two days be kept by the church of old, yearly, for their being
delivered from Haman's fury! And must not one to the world's end
be kept by the saints for the Son of God their Redeemer, for all
he has delivered them from a worse than Pharaoh or Haman, even
from the devil, and death, and sin, and hell! Oh stupidity! (Exo
12:24; Judg 11:39,40; Esth 9:26-32).

A day! say some, God forbid but he should have a day. But what
day? Oh! The old day comprised within the bounds and bowels of
the ministration of death.

And is this the love that thou hast to thy Redeemer, to keep that
day to him for all the service that he hath done for thee, which
has a natural tendency in it to draw thee off from the consideration
of the works of thy redemption, to the creation of the world! Oh
stupidity!

But why must he be imposed upon? Has he chosen that day? Did he
finish his work thereon? Is there in all the New Testament of our
Lord, from the day he rose from the dead, to the end of his holy
book, one syllable that signifies in the least the tenth part of
such a thing? where is the scripture that saith that this Lord of
the sabbath commanded his church, from that time, to do any part
of church service thereon? Where do we find the churches to gather
together thereon?

But why the seventh day? What is it? Take but the shadow thereof
away. Or what shadow now is left in it since its institution as
to divine service is taken long since from it?

Is there any thing in the works that was done in that day, more
than shadow, or that in the least tends otherwise to put us in mind
of Christ; and he being come, what need have we of that shadow?
And I say again, since that day was to be observed by a ceremonial
method, and no way else, as we find; and since ceremonies have
ceased, what way of divine appointment is there left to keep that
old sabbath by Christians in?

If they say, ceremonies have ceased. By the same argument, so
is the sanction of the day in which they were to be performed. I
would gladly see the place, if it is to be found, where it is said,
That day retains its sanction, which yet has lost that method of
service which was of God appointed for the performance of worship
to him thereon.

When Canaan worship fell, the sanction of Canaan fell. When temple
worship, and altar worship, and the sacrifices of the Levitical
priesthood fell, down also came the things themselves. Likewise
so, when the service, or shadow and ceremonies of the seventh day
sabbath fell, the seventh day sabbath fell likewise.

On the seventh day sabbath, as I told you, manna was not to be found.
But why? For that that day was of Moses and of the ministration
of death. But manna was not of him. Moses, saith Christ, 'gave
you not that bread of heaven' (John 6:31,32). Moses, as was said,
gave that sabbath in tables of stone, and God gave that manna from
heaven. Christ, nor his Father, gives grace by the law; no not by
that law in which is contained the old seventh day sabbath itself.

The law is not of faith, why then should grace be by Christians
expected by observation of the law? The law, even the law written
and engraven in stones, enjoins perfect obedience thereto on pain
of the curse of God. Nor can that part of it now under consideration,
according as is required, be fulfilled by any man, was the ceremony
thereto belonging, allowed to be laid aside (Isa 58:13). Never man
yet did keep it perfectly, except he whose name is Jesus Christ:
in him therefore we have kept it, and by him are set free from
that law, and brought under the ministration of the Spirit.

But why should we be bound to seek manna on that day, on which
God says, none shall be found.

Perhaps it will be said, that the sanction of that day would not
admit that manna should be gathered on it.

But that was not all, for on that day there was none to be found.
And might I choose, I had rather sanctify that day to God on which
I might gather this bread of God all day long, then set my mind
at all upon that in which no such bread was to be had.

The Lord's day, as was said, is to the Christians the principal
manna day.

On this day, even on it manna in the morning very early was gathered
by the disciples of our Lord, as newly springing out of the ground.
The true bread of God: the sheaf of first fruits, which is Christ
from the dead, was ordained to be waved before the Lord on the
morrow after the sabbath, the day on which our Lord ceased from
his own work as God did from his (Lev 23).

Now therefore the disciples found their green ears of corn indeed!
Now they read life, both in and out of the sepulchre in which the
Lord was laid. Now they could not come together nor speak one to
another, but either their Lord was with them, or they had heart
enflaming tidings from him. Now cries one and says, The Lord is
risen: And then another and says, He hath appeared to such and
such.

Now comes tidings to the eleven that their women were early at
the sepulchre, where they had a vision of angels that told them
their Lord was risen: Then comes another and says, The Lord is
risen indeed. Two also came from Emmaus and cried, We have seen
the Lord: and by and by, while they yet were speaking, their Lord
shows himself in the midst of them.

Now he calls to their mind some of their eminent passages of his
life, and eats and drinks in their presence, and opens the scriptures
to them: yea, and opens their understanding too, that their hearing
might not be unprofitable to them; all which continued from early
in the morning till late at night. Oh! what a manna day was this
to the church. And more than all this you will find, if you read
but the four evangelists upon this subject.

Thus began the day after the sabbath, and thus it has continued
through all ages to this very day. Never did the seventh day sabbath
yield manna to Christians. A new world was now begun with the
poor church of God, for so said the Lord of the sabbath, 'Behold,
I make all things new.' A new covenant, and why not then a new
resting day to the church? Or why must the old sabbath be joined
to this new ministration? let him that can, show a reason for it.

Christians, if I have not been so large upon things as some might
expect; know, that my brevity on this subject is, from consideration
that must needs not be spoken thereto, and because I may have
occasion to write a second part.

Christians, beware of being entangled with old testament ministrations,
lest by one you be brought into many inconveniencies.

I have observed, that though the Jewish rites have lost their
sanction, yet some that are weak in judgment, do bring themselves
into bondage by them. Yea, so high have some been carried as to
a pretended conscience to these that they have at last proceeded
to circumcision, to many wives, and the observation of many bad
things besides.

Yea, I have talked with some pretending to Christianity, who
have said, and affirmed, as well as they could, that the Jewish
sacrifices must up again.

But do you give no heed to these Jewish fables 'That turn from
the truth' (Titus 1:14). Do you, I say, that love the Lord Jesus,
keep close to his testament, his word, his gospel, and observe
HIS holy day.

And this caution in conclusion I would give, to put stop to this
Jewish ceremony, to wit, That a seventh day sabbath pursued according
to its imposition by law, (and I know not that it is imposed by
the apostles) leads to blood and stoning to death those that do but
gather sticks thereon (Num 15:32-36). A thing which no way becomes
the gospel, that ministration of the Spirit and of righteousness
(2 Cor 3). Nor yet the professors thereof (Luke 9:54-56).

Nor can it with fairness be said, that that sabbath day remains,
although the law thereof is repealed. For confident I am, that
there is no more ground to make such a conclusion, than there is
to say, that circumcision is still of force, though the law for
cutting of the uncircumcised is by the gospel made null and void.

I told you also in the epistle, that if the fifth commandment was
the first that was with promise; then it follows, that the fourth,
or that seventh day sabbath, had no promise entailed to it. Whence
it follows, that where you read in the prophet of a promise annexed
to a sabbath, it is best to understand it of our gospel sabbath
(Isa 56).

Now if it be asked, What promise is entailed to our first day
sabbath? I answer, The biggest of promises. For,

First, The resurrection of Christ was tied by promise to this day,
and to none other. He rose the third day after his death, and that
was the first day of the week, 'according' to what was fore-promised
in the scriptures (Hosea 6:1,2; 1 Cor 15:3-6).

Second, That we should live before God by him, is a promise to be
fulfilled on this day; 'After two days will he revive us: in the
third day--we shall live in his sight' (Hosea 6:2). See also Isaiah
26:19 and compare them again with 1 Corinthians 15:4.

Third, The great promise of the new testament, to wit, the pouring
out of the Spirit, fixeth upon these days; and so he began in the
most wonderful effusion of it upon Pentecost, which was the first
day of the week, that the scriptures might be fulfilled (Acts
2:16-19).

Nor could these three promises be fulfilled upon any other days,
for that the scripture had fixed them to the first day of the
week.

I am of opinion that these things, though but briefly touched upon,
cannot be fairly objected against, however they may be disrelished
by some.

Nor can I believe, that any part of our religion, as we are
Christians, stand in not kindling of fires, and not seething of
victuals, or in binding of men not to stir out of those places on
the seventh day, in which at the dawning thereof they were found.
And yet these are ordinances belonging to that seventh day sabbath
(Exo 16:23-29).

Certainly it must needs be an error to impose these things by divine
authority upon new testament believers, our worship standing now
in things more weighty, spiritual and heavenly.

Nor can it be proved, as I have hinted before, that this day was,
or is to be imposed without those ordinances, with others in other
places mentioned and adjoined, for the sanction of that day they
being made necessary parts of that worship that was to be performed
thereon.

I have charity for those that abuse themselves and their Lord, by
their preposterous zeal and affection for the continuing of this
day in the churches. For I conclude, that if they did either
believe, or think of the incoherence that this day with its
rites and ceremonies has with the ministration of the Spirit, our
new testament ministration, they would not so stand int heir own
light as they do, nor so stiffly plead for a place for it in the
churches of the Gentiles. But as Paul insinuates in other cases,
there is an aptness in men to be under the law because they do
not hear it (Gal 4).

Nor will it out of my mind, but if the seventh day sabbath was
by divine authority, and to be kept holy by the churches of the
Gentiles, it should not have so remained among the Jews, Christ's
deadliest enemies, and have been kept so much hid from the
believers, his best friends. For who has retained the pretended
sanction of that day from Christ's time, quite down in the world,
but the Jews, and a few Jewish Gentiles, I will except some. But,
I say, since a sabbath is that without which the great worship
of God under the gospel cannot be well performed: how can it be
thought, that it should as to the knowledge of it, be confined to
so blasphemous a generation of the Jews, with whom that worship
is not?

I will rather conclude, that those Gentile professors that adhere
thereto are Jewified, legalized, and so far gone back from the
authority of God, who from such bondage has set his churches free.

I do at this time but hint upon things, reserving a fuller argument
upon them for a time and place more fit; where, and when, I may
perhaps also show, some other wild notions of those that so stiffly
cleave to this.

Meantime, I entreat those who are captivated with this opinion,
not to take it ill at my hand that I thus freely speak my mind.
I entreat them also to peruse my book without prejudice to my
person. The truth is, one thing that has moved me to this work, is
the shame that has covered the face of my soul, when I have thought
of the fictions and fancies that are growing among professors. And
while I see each fiction turn itself to a faction, to the loss of
that good spirit of love, and that oneness that formerly was with
good men.

I doubt not but some unto whom this book may come, have had seal
from God, that the first day of the week is to be sanctified by
the church to Jesus Christ. Not only from his testimony, which
is, and should be, the ground of our practice; but also, for that
the first conviction that the Holy Ghost made upon their consciences,
to make them know that they were sinners, began with them for
breaking this sabbath day; which day, by that same spirit was told
them, was that now called the first day, and not the day before,
and the Holy Ghost doth not use to begin this work with a lie,
which first conviction the Spirit has followed so close, with other
things tending to complete the same work, that the soul from so
good a beginning could not rest until it found rest in Christ.
Let this then to such be a second token that the Lord's day is by
them to be kept in commemoration of their Lord and his resurrection,
and of what he did on this day for their salvation. Amen.


FOOTNOTES:

1. Dialogues, 1st chapter, xxv.

2. Answer to More.

3. Institutes, b. ii. ch. 8.

4. Com. on Gal. 4:9.

5. The word 'moral' is here used to mark the difference between
obligations binding on all mankind and a positive or limited
command: thus, to love God is a moral or universal obligation,
but to be baptized is positive and obligatory only on those who
believe (Acts 8:37).--Ed.

6. The original edition refers to (Eze 49, 50), but it is evidently
a typographical error in omitting the chapter.

7. Man unaided by revelation.

8. Adam is supposed by some rabbins not to have passed one night
in a state of perfection, (see Ainsworth on Gen 3:1, 28:11; Psa
49:13), and to have fallen on the Sabbath day.

9. The murder of Abel took place 'at the end of days'; see margin
to Genesis 4:3. Properly rendered 'in process of time'; but by some
supposed to mean at the end of the week. See Dr. Gill's Commentary.

10. 'The Lord hath given YOU the sabbath.' See also 31:17, 'It [the
observance of the sabbath] is a sign between me and the children
of Israel for ever.'--Ed.

11. This is a striking application of Colossians 2:17. The sabbath
'a shadow of things to come'; to the Jews it was a shadow of the
rest that remaineth to the children of God, reflected from the
completion of the work of creation. The day of rest and worship
to the Christian, is a much stronger type, yet but a shadow of the
holy enjoyments of his eternal rest, prefigured from the finishing
of the mightier work of redemption.--Ed.

12. In Bunyan's original edition it is 'Matt 3, 1,' but this must
be a typographical error.--Ed.

13. 'Out of doors,' no more to be found, quite gone, fairly sent
away.--Locke. 'Out of court.'--Law-term.--Ed.

14. 'Any likement,' any fondness or partiality.--Ed.

15. This spirit is not extinct. Mr. Shenston, in his 'Plea for the
Seventh-day,' charges those who keep the Lord's day 'that they
yield to the tide--keep their friends--riches--comforts; they
believe that the seventh-day is the sabbath, and would greatly
prefer keeping it, if the rulers of the nation would alter the
day; they imagine that their God is some dumb idol!'+ Language
most unseemly and insulting--charging all who observe the Lord's
day with being hypocrites and the worst of fools. Mr. S. forgot the
solemn proverb, 'with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged.'

+ Edit. 1826, pp. 41, 42.

16. This was the opinion of those great reformers, Tyndale, Calvin,
and Luther; see introduction by the Editor. It was a sentiment
which led to no practical evil.--Ed.

17. Psalm 118:24.

18. 'That we read of' in the New Testament; for this is our sole
authority in all inquiries as to a Christian's faith and practice.--Ed.

19. 'Tradition' is a communication without writing, and when
made orally by some apostle or messenger from the first church
at Jerusalem, and the message so obeys as to be left upon record
by the Holy Ghost, it has the same authority as if it had been
commanded in an epistle. It has nothing to do with the vain traditions
of the fathers (so called), which were not heard of until after the
inspired volume was completed and closed. Any subsequent commands
are censures upon God's omniscience, and are deserving only of
contempt.--Ed.

20. The New Testament by Whittinghan, 1557; the Genevan or Puritan
Bible by Knox, Coverdale, and others, 1560; and the New Testament
revised by Tomson, 1576, very frequently reprinted, and very
favourite translations among our puritan and pilgrim forefathers
in the faith. The marginal note to the Puritan Bible, in Acts
20:7, 'first day,' is, 'which we call Sunday. Of this place, and
also of the 1 Corinthians 16:2, we gather that the Christians
used to have their solemn assemblies this day, laying aside the
ceremony of the Jewish sabbath.'--Ed.

21. 'Acted by,' a mode of speech now obsolete; it means 'actuated
by' or 'influenced by.'--Ed.

***

OF THE TRINITY AND A CHRISTIAN, AND OF THE LAW AND A CHRISTIAN.


EDITOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.

These two short treatises were found among Mr. Bunyan's papers
after his decease. They probably were intended for publication,
like his 'Prison Meditations' and his 'Map of Salvation,' on a
single page each, in the form of a broadside, or handbill. This
was the popular mode in which tracts were distributed; and when
posted against a wall, or framed and hung up in a room, they excited
notice, and were extensively read. They might also have afforded
some trifling profit to aid this poor but eminent servant of
Christ in his very limited income. They form two pages in that
exceedingly interesting volume of 'The Works of Mr. John Bunyan,'
in small folio, 1692. To which is added 'The Struggler,' containing
some most valuable facts, relative to the various works, imprisonment
and sufferings of the author. The titles to these treatises were
added by Mr. Doe, the personal friend of Bunyan, who edited the
works and wrote 'The Struggler,' the author having left them without
any heading or title. They are very unfinished, and may have been
intended as a syllabus or outline of more extended treatises.--GEO.
OFFOR.


OF THE TRINITY AND A CHRISTIAN

How a young, or shaken Christian should demean himself under the
weighty thoughts of the doctrine of the Trinity, or plurality of
persons in the eternal godhead.

The reason why I say a young, or shaken Christian; it is because
some that are not young, but of an ancient standing, may not only
be assaulted with violent temptations, concerning gospel principles,
but a second time may become a child, a babe, a shallow man, in
the things of God; especially, either when by backsliding he hath
provoked God to leave him, or when some new, unexpected, and, as
to present strength, over-weighty objection doth fall upon the
spirit; by means of which, great shakings of mind do commonly
attend such a soul, in the most weighty matters of the concerns
of faith, which this is one that have supposed in the above-named
question. Wherefore passing other things, I will come directly to
that, and briefly propose some helps to a soul in such a case.

THE FIRST PREPARATIVE.

First, then, be sure thou keep close to the word of God; for that
is the revelation of the mind and will of God, both as to the
truth of what is either in himself or ways; and also as to what
he requireth and expecteth of thee, either concerning faith in,
or obedience to, what he hath so revealed. Now for thy better
performing of this I shall give thee in brief these following
directions.

1. Suffer thyself, by the authority of the word, to be persuaded
that the scripture indeed is the word of God; the scriptures of
truth, the words of the holy one; and that they therefore must be
every one true, pure, and for ever settled in heaven.

2. Conclude therefore from the former doctrine, that that God
whose words they are, is able to make a reconciliation and most
sweet and harmonious agreement with all the sayings therein, how
obscure, cross, dark, and contradictory soever they seem to thee.
To understand all mysteries, to have all knowledge, to be able
to comprehend with all saints, is a great work; enough to crush
the spirit, and to stretch the strings of the most capacious and
widened soul that breatheth on this side glory, be they notwithstanding
exceedingly enlarged by revelation. Paul, when he was caught up
to heaven, saw that which was unlawful, because impossible for man
to utter. And saith Christ to the reasoning Pharisee, 'If I have
told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe,
if I tell you of heavenly things?' (John 3:12). It is great lewdness,
and also insufferable arrogancy to come to the word of God, as
conceiting already that whatever thou readest, must either by
thee be understood, or of itself fall to the ground as a senseless
error. But God is wiser than man, wherefore fear thou him, and
tremble at his word, saying still, with godly suspicion of thine
own infirmity, what I see not, teach thou me, and thou art God only
wise; but as for me, 'I was as a beast before thee' (Psa 73:22).

3. Take heed of taking a part of the word only, lest thou thereby
go away with the truth as mangled in pieces. For instance, where
thou readest, 'The LORD our God is one Lord' (Deut 6:4); there
take heed that thou dost not thence conclude, Then there are not
three persons in the godhead: Or when thou readest of the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Spirit, then take heed of concluding, there
must therefore either be three Gods, or else that Jesus Christ and
the Holy Ghost are not true God, but the Father only. Wherefore
to help thee here, observe,

THE SECOND PREPARATIVE.

1. That Christian religion requireth credit concerning every
doctrine contained in the word; credit, I say, according to the
true relation of every sentence that the Holy Ghost hath revealed
for the asserting, maintaining, or vindicating that same truth.

2. And therefore hence it is that a Christian is not called a doer,
a reasoner, an objector, and perverse disputer; but a BELIEVER.
Be thou an example to the believer. 'And believers were the more
added to the Lord,' &c. (Acts 5:14; 1 Tim 4:12).

3. Therefore know again that the word, if it saith and expresseth
that this or that is so and so, as to the matter in hand, thou art
bound and obliged both by the name, profession, and the truth,
unto which thou hast joined thyself, to assent to, confess
and acknowledge the same, even then when thy carnal reason will
not stoop thereto. 'Righteous art thou, O Lord,' saith Jeremiah,
'yet let me talk with thee: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked
prosper?' (Jer 12:1). Mark, first he acknowledgeth that God's way
with the wicked is just and right, even then when yet he could
not see the reason of his actings and dispensations towards them.
The same reason is good as to our present case. And hence it
is that the apostle teacheth, the spiritual armour of Christians
should be much exercised against those high-towering and
self-exalting imaginations, that within our own bosoms do exalt
themselves against the knowledge of God. That every thought, or
carnal reasoning, may be not only taken, but brought as captive
into obedience to Christ; that is, be made to stoop to the word of
God, and to give way and place to the doctrine therein contained,
how cross soever our thoughts and the word lie to each other.
And it is observable that he here teacheth, They exalt themselves
against the knowledge of God, which cannot be understood that
our carnal or natural reason doth exalt itself against an eternal
deity, simply considered; for that nature itself doth gather from
the very things that are made, even his eternal power and godhead;
it must be then that they exalt themselves against that God as
thus and thus revealed in the word, to wit, against the knowledge
of one God consisting of three persons, Father, Son, and Spirit;
for this is the doctrine of the scriptures of truth; and therefore
it is observable these thoughts must be brought captive, and be
made subject in particular to the Lord Jesus Christ, as to the
second person in the godhead; for the Father is ever acknowledged
by all that profess the least of religion; but the Son is that
stubmling-stone, and rock of offence, against which thousands dash
themselves in pieces; though in him are hid all the treasures of
wisdom and knowledge, and in him dwells the fulness of the godhead
bodily.


OF THE LAW AND A CHRISTIAN.

The law was given twice upon mount Sinai, but the appearance of
the Lord when he gave it the second time, was wonderfully different
from that of his [appearance], when at the first he delivered it
to Israel (Exo 19 and 34).

1. When he gave it the first time, he caused his terror and
severity to appear before Moses, to the shaking of his soul, and
the dismaying of Israel (Exo 19:16; Heb 12:18-20). But when he
gave it the second time, he caused all his goodness to pass before
Moses, to the comfort of his conscience, and the bowing of his
heart (Exo 34:8).

2. When he gave it the first time, it was with thunderings and
lightnings, with blackness and darkness, with flame and smoke, and
a tearing sound of the trumpet (Exo 19:16-18). But when he gave
it the second time, it was with a proclamation of his name to be
merciful, gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and
truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity, transgressions
and sins (Exo 34:6,7).

3. When he gave it the first time, Moses was called to go up to
receive it through the fire, which made him exceedingly fear and
quake (Exo 19:18; Heb 12:21). But when he went to receive it the
second time, he was laid in a clift of the rock (Exo 31:22).

4. From all which I gather, that, though as to the matter of the
law, both as to its being given the first time, and the second,
it binds the unbeliever under the pains of eternal damnation, if
he close not with Christ by faith; yet as to the manner of its
giving at these two times, I think the first doth more principally
intend its force as a covenant of works, not at all respecting
the Lord Jesus; but this second time not, at least in the manner
of its being given, respecting such a covenant, but rather as a
rule, or directory, to those who already are found in the clift
of the rock, Christ: for the saint himself, though he be without
law to God, as it is considered the first or old covenant, yet
even he is not without law to him as considered under grace, not
without law to God, but under the law to Christ (1 Cor 9:21).

5. Though therefore it be sad with the unbeliever, because he
only and wholly standeth under the law, as it is given in fire, in
smoke, in blackness, and darkness, and thunder; all which threaten
him with eternal ruin if he fulfil not the utmost tittle thereof;
yet the believer stands to the law under no such consideration,
neither is he so at all to hear or regard it, for he is now
removed from thence to the blessed mountain of Zion, to grace
and forgiveness of sins; he is now, I say, by faith in the Lord
Jesus shrouded under so perfect and blessed a righteousness, that
this thundering law of mount Sinai cannot find the least fault
or diminution therein; but rather approveth and alloweth thereof
either when, or wherever it find it (Heb 12). This is called
the righteousness of God without the law, and is also said to be
witnessed by both the law and the prophets: even the righteousness
of God, which is by faith in Jesus Christ 'unto all and upon all
them that believe, for there is no difference' (Rom 3:22).

6. Wherefore whenever thou who believest in Jesus, dost hear the
law in its thundering and lightning fits, as if it would burn up
heaven and earth; then say thou, I am freed from this law, these
thunderings have nothing to do with my soul; nay even this law, while
it thus thunders and roareth, it doth both allow and approve of
my righteousness. I know that Hagar would sometimes be domineering
and high, even in Sarah's house and against her; but this she
is not to be suffered to do, nay though Sarah herself be barren;
wherefore serve IT also as Sarah served her, and expel her out
from thy house. My meaning is, when this law with its thundering
threatenings doth attempt to lay hold on thy conscience, shut it
out with a promise of grace; cry, the inn is took up already, the
Lord Jesus is here entertained, and here is no room for the law.
Indeed if it will be content with being my informer, and so lovingly
leave off to judge me; I will be content, it shall be in my sight,
I will also delight therein; but otherwise, I being now made
upright without it, and that too with that righteousness, which
this law speaks well of and approveth; I am not, will not, cannot,
dare not make it my saviour and judge, nor suffer it to set up its
government in my conscience; for by so doing I fall from grace,
and Christ Jesus doth profit me nothing (Gal 5:1-5).

7. Thus therefore the soul that is married to him that is raised
up from the dead, both may and ought to deal with this law of
God; yea, it doth greatly dishonour its Lord and refuse its gospel
privileges, if it at any time otherwise doth, whatever it seeth
or feels. The law hath power over the wife so long as her husband
liveth, but if her husband be dead she is freed from that law,
so that she is no adulteress though she be married to another man
(Rom 7:1-3). Indeed so long as thou art alive to sin, and to thy
righteousness which is of the law, so long thou hast them for thy
husband and they must reign over thee: But when once they are
become dead unto thee, as they then most certainly will, when
thou closest with the Lord Jesus Christ; then I say, thy former
husbands have no more to meddle with thee, thou art freed from
their law. Set a case, a woman be cast into prison for a debt of
hundreds of pounds, if after this she marry; yea, though while
she is in the gaoler's hand, in the same day that she is joined
to her husband, her debt is all become his; yea, and the law also
that arrested and imprisoned this woman, as freely tells her, go,
she is freed, saith Paul, from that, and so saith the law of this
land.

The sum then of what hath been said is this, the Christian hath
now nothing to do with the law, as it thundereth and burneth on
Sinai, or as it bindeth the conscience to wrath and the displeasure
of God for sin; for from its thus appearing, it is freed by faith
in Christ. Yet it is to have regard thereto, and is to count it
holy, just and good (Rom 7:12); which that it may do, it is always
whenever it seeth or regards it, to remember that he who giveth
it to us is 'merciful, and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant
in goodness and truth,' &c. (Exo 34:6).

***

SCRIPTURAL POEMS; BEING SEVERAL PORTIONS OF SCRIPTURE DIGESTED INTO
ENGLISH VERSE

viz.,

I. The Book of Ruth II. The History of Samson III. Christ's Sermon
on the Mount IV. The Prophecy of Jonah V. The Life of Joseph VI.
The Epistle of James

BY JOHN BUNYAN

Licensed According to Order.

London: Printed for J. Blare, at the Looking Glass, on London
Bridge, 1701.


ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

This very interesting little volume of poems, we believe, has not
been reprinted since the year 1701, nor has it ever been inserted
in any edition or catalogue of Bunyan's works. This may have arisen
from the author's having sold his entire copyright--a fact which
prevented Charles Doe from publishing many other of Bunyan's
treatises, when he projected his edition of the entire works,
of which the first volume only was printed. With some other of
Bunyan's rarest tracts, it escaped the researches of Wilson, who
published the works in 1737, and also of Whitefield, Mason, and all
other editors of Bunyan's works. Mr. Doe, in his very interesting
pages called 'The Struggler, for the Preservation of Mr. John
Bunyan's Labours,' gives a catalogue table of his books in the
order in which they were published; but he had not discovered these
poems, nor the Emblems, nor the Exhortation to Peace and Unity.

The volume from which this edition is printed consists of one
hundred pages in crown octavo, with a very rude cut of Ruth and
Boaz. It is of extreme rarity, if not unique, in a perfect state.
The imprint is--London, for J. Blare, at the Looking Glass, on London
Bridge, 1701. It forms part of the Editor's extensive collection
of the original or early editions of Bunyan's tracts and treatises;
the scarcity of which may be accounted for, from their having been
printed on very bad paper, and worn out by use, being so generally
and eagerly read by pious persons among the labouring classes of
the community.

The style and substance of these scriptural poems are entirely
Bunyan's. His veneration for the holy oracles appears through
every page, by his close adherence to the text. He fully proves
what he asserts in his address to the reader--


'The WORD are for the most part all the same,
For I affected plainness more than fame.'


However uncouth it may appear to use a plural verb after a singular
noun, it really expresses his meaning, which is evidently, that
portions of the WORD of God are rendered into poetry as nearly
as possible, word for word with the original; and he immediately
apologizes for this rudeness, in neglecting the rules of grammar,
by stating his earnest plainness of speech, and his want of
education in early life.


'Nor could'st thou hope to have it better done,
For I'm no poet, nor a poet's son,
But a mechanic, guided by no rule,
But what I gained in a grammar school
In my minority.'


How exactly does this agree with his account of himself in
boyhood,--'It pleased God to put it into my parent's heart to put
me to school, to learn both to read and write; though, to my shame
I confess, I did soon lose that I learnt, even almost utterly.'[1]

Our surprise will be excited, not by little inaccuracies of style
or departures from the rules of grammar, but at the talent of a
poor mechanic, in so faithfully rendering scripture histories in
such simple and striking language. As Mr. Burton says, in commending
his Gospel Truths Vindicated,--'This man hath not the learning or
wisdom of man, yet through grace he hath received the teaching of
God, and the learning of the Spirit of Christ, which is the thing
that makes a man both a Christian and a minister of the gospel
(Isa 50:4). He was not chosen out of an earthly, but out of the
heavenly University, and hath taken these three heavenly degrees--Union
with Christ--The Anointing of the Spirit, and Experience of the
Temptations of Satan; far better than all the University learning
and degrees that can be had.' May Bunyan's desire be realized,
and his verses prove to all our readers


'As delighting
To thee in reading, as to me in writing.'


GEO. OFFOR.

Hackney, August 22, 1849


SCRIPTURAL POEMS


TO THE READER.

Whoe'er thou art that shall peruse this book,
This may inform thee, when I undertook
To write these lines, it was not my design
To publish this imperfect work of mine:
Composed only for diversion's sake.
But being inclin'd to think thou may'st partake
Some benefit thereby, I have thought fit,
Imperfect as it is, to publish it.
The subjects are a part of the contents,
Both of the Old and the New Testaments;
The word are for the most part all the same,
For I affected plainness more than fame.
Nor could'st thou hope to have it better done:
For I'm no poet, nor a poet's son,
But a mechanic, guided by no rule,
But what I gained in a grammar school
In my minority: I can't commend it,
Such as it is into the world I send it,
And should be glad to see some hand to mend it.
Would but those men whose genius leads them to't,
And who have time and parts wherewith to do't,
Employ their pens in such a task as this,
'Twould be a most delightsome exercise
Of profit to themselves and others too:
If what the learned Herbert says, holds true,
A verse may find him, who a sermon flies,
And turn delight into a sacrifice;[2]
Thus I conclude, and wish it as delighting
To thee in reading as to me in writing.

JOHN BUNYAN.


THE BOOK OF RUTH

A VERY RUDE WOODCUT:--RUTH GLEANING.--RUTH CREEPING TO BOAZ, 
WHO IS ASLEEP.

CHAP. I.

In ancient times, e'er Israel knew the way
Of kingly power, when judges bore the sway:
A certain man of Bethlehem Juda fled,
By reason of a famine that o'erspread
The land, into the land of Moab, where
He and his wife, and sons, sojourners were.
His name Elimelech, his eldest son
Was called Mahlon, t'other Chilion,
His wife was Naomi, Ephrathites they were:
They went to Moab and continued there:
Where of her husband Naomi was bereft,
And only she and her two sons were left:
Who took them wives of Moab in their youth.
The name of one was Orpah, t'other Ruth:
And there they died ere twice five years were gone;
And Naomi was wholly left alone.
Then she arose, and her step-daughters with her,
To leave the land of Moab altogether:
For she had heard the Lord had visited
Her native country, with increase of bread,
Wherefore the land of Moab she forsook,
And to her native place her course she took,
Her daughters with her: whom she did desire,
That to their mother's house they would retire.
The Lord, said she, be kind to you again,
As you to me, and to the dead have been.
God grant you each may be with husbands blest,
And in the enjoyment of them both find rest,
Then she embraced them, and there withal,
Down from their cheeks, the tears began to fall.
They wept aloud, and said, Most surely we
Unto thy people will return with thee.
But Naomi replied, Wherefore will ye,
My daughters, thus resolve to go with me?
Are there yet any more sons in my womb,
That may your husbands be in time to come?
Return again, my daughters, go your way,
For I'm too old to marry: should I say
I've hope? Should I this night conceive a son?
Would either of you stay till he is grown?
Would you so long without an husband[3] live?
Nay, nay, my daughters, for it doth me grieve
Exceedingly, even for your sakes, that I
Do under this so great affliction lie.
And here they wept again. And Orpah kiss'd
Her mother, But Ruth would be not dismiss'd
But clave unto her: unto whom she spake
And said, Behold, thy sister is gone back,
With her own gods, and people to abide,
Go thou along with her. But Ruth replied,
Intreat me not to leave thee, or return:
For where thou goest, I'll go, where thou sojourn,
I'll sojourn also. And what people's thine,
And who thy God, the same shall both be mine.
Where thou shalt die, there will I die likewise,
And I'll be buried where thy body lies.
The Lord do so to me, and more, if I
Do leave thee, or forsake thee till I die.
And when she saw the purpose of her heart,
She left off to desire her to depart.
So they two travelled along together
To Bethlehem, and when they were come thither,
Behold! the people were surprised, and cried,
What, is this Naomi? But she replied,
Oh! call me Mara, and not Naomi;
For I have been afflicted bitterly.
I went out from you full, but now I come,
As it hath pleased God, quite empty home:
Why then call ye me Naomi? Since I
Have been afflicted so exceedingly.
So Naomi return'd, and Ruth together,
Who had come from the land of Moab with her:
And unto Bethlem Judah did they come,
Just as the Barley Harvest was begun.

CHAP. II.

There was a man of kin to Naomi,
One that was of her husband's family,
His name was Boaz, and his wealth was great.
And Ruth, the Moabitess, did intreat
Her Mother's leave, that she might go, and gather
Some ears of corn, where she should most find favour:
Go, daughter, go, said she. She went and came
Near to the reapers, to glean after them:
And lo, it was her hap to light among
The reapers, which to Boaz did belong.
Behold, now Boaz came from Bethlehem
Unto his reapers, and saluted them,
And they bless'd him again: and he enquired
Of him that was set over them he hired,
From whence the damsel was, and was inform'd
She was the Moabitess that return'd
With Naomi: and she did ask, said he,
That here amongst the reapers she might be,
And that she might have liberty to glean
Among the sheaves. And she all day hath been,
Ev'n from the morning until now, with us,
That she hath stay'd a little in the house.
Then Boaz said to Ruth, observe, my daughter,
That thou go not from hence, or follow after
The reapers of another field, but where
My maidens are, see that thou tarry there:
Observe what field they reap, and go thou there,
Have I not charged the young men to forbear
To touch thee? And when thou dost thirst, approach
And drink of what the youths have set abroach.[4]
Then she fell on her face, and to the ground
She bow'd herself, and said, Why have I found
Such favour in thine eyes; that thou, to me
Who am a stranger, should so courteous be?
And Boaz said, it hath been fully shewn
To me, what to thy mother-in-law thou'st done,
Since of thine husband thou hast been bereft:
How thou thy father and thy mother left,
And thine own native land; to come unto
A land which thou before didst never know:
The Lord, the God of Israel, the defence
Whom now thou'st chosen, be thy recompence.
Then said she, let me in thy sight, my lord,
Find favour in that thou dost thus afford
Me comfort, and since thou so kind to me
Dost speak, though I thereof unworthy be.
And Boaz said, at meal time come thou near,
Eat of the bread, and dip i' th' vinegar.
And by the reapers she sat down to meat,
He gave her parched corn, and she did eat,
And was suffic'd; and left, and rose to glean:
And Boaz gave command to the young men,
Let her come in among the sheaves, said he,
To glean, and let her not reproached be.
Let fall some handfuls also purposely,
And let her take them without injury.
So she till even glean'd, and then beat out
Her barley, being an ephah[5] or thereabout.
She took it up, and to the city went,
And to her mother-in-law did it present:
And what she had reserv'd to her she gave,
When she had took what she design'd to have.
Then unto her, her mother-in-law did say,
In what field hast thou been to glean to-day?
And where hast thou been working? Blest be he,
That thus hath taken cognizance of thee.
She told with whom, and furthermore did say,
The man's name's Boaz, where I wrought to-day.
And Naomi replied, may he be blest,
Even of the Lord, whose kindness manifest
Unto the living and the dead hath been:
The man's our kinsman, yea, the next of kin.
And Ruth, the Moabitess, said, he gave
Me likewise a commandment not to leave,
Or to depart from following his young men,
Until they had brought all his harvest in.
And Naomi said unto Ruth, my daughter,
'Tis good that thou observe to follow after
His maidens, that they meet thee not elsewhere.
So she to Boaz's maidens still kept near,
Till barley and wheat harvest both, she saw
Were done, and she dwelt with her mother-in-law.

CHAP. III.

Then Naomi said, Shall I not, my daughter,
Seek rest for thee, that thou do well hereafter?
And is not Boaz, with whose maids thou wast,
One of the nearest kinsmen that thou hast?
Behold, this night he in his threshing floor
Is winnowing Barley, wash thyself therefore,
Anoint thee, put thy clothes on, and get down
Unto the floor; but make not thyself known,
Till he hath eat and drank, and shall prepare
To lie him down; then take good notice where
He goes about to take his night's repose,
And go thou in there, and lift up the clothes
From off his feet, and likewise lay thee down,
And what thou hast to do he will make known.
And she made answer, Whatsoever thou
Hast me commanded, will I gladly do.
And down unto the floor she hasted, and
Forthwith fulfilled her mother-in-law's command.
So now when Boaz had his heart refresh'd,
With meat and drink, he laid him down to rest,
Near to the heap of corn; she softly came,
Uncover'd's feet, and lay down by the same.
And, lo! at midnight, as he turn'd him round,
He was afraid, for at his feet he found
A woman lay. Who art thou? then said he.
I am thine handmaid Ruth, replied she,
Over thine handmaid therefore spread thy skirt,
I pray, because thou a near kinsman art.
Blessed be thou, said he, because thou hast
Made manifest more kindness at the last,
Than at the first, in that thou did'st, my daughter,
No young men, whether poor or rich, go after.
And now, my daughter, be not thou afraid,
I will do to thee all that thou hast said:
For all the city of my people knows,
Thou art a woman truly virtuous;
And now though I am kin and undoubtedly,
Yet there is one that's nearer kin than I.
Tarry this night, and when 'tis morning light,
If he will like a kinsman, do thee right,
We'll let him, but if not, I myself will,
As the Lord lives; till morning lie thou still.
And till the morning at his feet she lay,
And then arose about the break of day;
And he gave her a charge, not to declare
That there had any womankind been there.
He also said, bring here thy veil, and hold
To me; she did, and thereinto he told
Six measures full of barley, and did lay
It on her, and she hasted thence away.
And when unto her mother-in-law she came,
Art thou, said she, my daughter come again?
Then what the man had done she told, and said,
He these six measures full of barley laid
Upon me, for said he, This I bestow,
Lest to thy mother thou should'st empty go.
Then, said she, sit still daughter, till thou see
What the event of this intrigue will be;
For till the man this day hath made an end,
No satisfaction will on him attend.

CHAP. IV.

And Boaz went up to the city gate,
And after a short space, while there he sate,
The kinsman of whom he had spoke, came by,
To whom he said, Ho,[6] such a one, draw nigh,
And sit down here. He came and sat him down.
Then he took ten men, elders of the town,
And caused them to sit down. Then to the man
That was of kin, thus he his speech began,
Naomi, said he, who not long since sojourn'd
Among the Moabites, is now return'd;
And doth intend to sell a piece of ground,
The which Elimelech our brother own'd.
And now to give thee notice, I thought fit,
That if thou pleasest, thou may'st purchase it.
In presence of these men assembled here.
Then if thou wilt redeem it, now declare
Thy mind, but if thou wilt not, then let me,
For thou art next of kin, and I next thee.
Then said the kinsman, I will it redeem.
Boaz reply'd, if good to thee it seem,
To buy it of the hand of Naomi,
Thou also art obliged the same to buy
Of Ruth the Moabitess, wife o' th' dead;
On his inheritance to raise up seed.
The kinsman said, I cannot do this thing
Myself, lest I an inconvenience bring
Upon mine own inheritance, what's mine
By right, therefore I now to thee resign.
Now this in Israel did a custom stand,
Concerning changing and redeeming land;
To put all controversy to an end,
A man pluck'd off his shoe, and gave his friend;
And this in Israel was an evidence,
When e'er they changed an inheritance.
Then said the kinsman unto Boaz, do
Thou take my right. And off he pluck'd his shoe.
Then Boaz to the elders thus did say
And to the people, all of you this day
Appear for me as witnesses, that I
Have bought all of the land of Naomi,
That was Elimelech's or did belong
Either to Mahlon or to Chilion:
And Ruth the Moabitess, who some time
Was Mahlon's wife, I've purchas'd to be mine,
Still to preserve alive the dead man's name
On his inheritance, lest that the same
Should in the gate where he inhabited,
Or 'mongst his brethren be extinguished:
Behold, this day, my witnesses you are.
Then all the people that were present there,
And elders said, We are thy witnesses:
May God this woman thou hast taken bless,
That she, like Rachel, and like Leah be,
Which two did build up Israel's family:
And thou in Ephratah exalt thy name,
And through the town of Bethl'hem spread thy fame;
And may the seed which God shall give to thee
Of this young woman, full as prosperous be,
As was the house of Pharez heretofore,
(Pharez, whom Tamar unto Judah bore.)
So he took Ruth, and as his wife he knew her,
And God was pleased, when he went in to her
To grant the blessing of conception,
And she accordingly bare him a son.
Then said the woman, Blessed be the Lord!
Bless thou him Naomi, who doth afford
To thee this day a kinsman, which shall be
Famous in Israel; and shall be to thee
As the restorer of thy life again,
And in thy drooping age shall thee sustain:
For that thy daughter-in-law, who loves thee well
And in thy sight doth seven sons excel,
Hath born this child. Then Naomi took the boy
To nurse; and did him in her bosom lay.
Her neighbours too, gave him a name, for why,
This son, say they, is born to Naomi:
They called him Obed, from whose loins did spring
Jesse, the sire of David, Israel's king.


THE HISTORY OF SAMSON

JUDGES, CHAP. XIII.

When Israel's sins th' Almighty did provoke,
To make them subject to Philistine yoke
For forty years: in Zorah dwelt a man,
His name Manoah, of the tribe of Dan;
His wife was barren, unto whom appeared
The angel of the Lord, and thus declared:
Though thou, said he, art barren, time shall come
Thou shalt enjoy the blessing of thy womb;
Now therefore I entreat thee to refrain
From wine, strong drink, and things that are unclean,
For lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son,
Upon whose head there shall no razor come:
For he to God a Nazarite shall be,
And shall begin to set his people free
From the Philistine yoke. The woman came
And told her husband, she had seen a man
Of God: his dreadful look made me, said she,
Think him an angel of the Lord to be:
But I inquired not from whence he came,
Neither did he make known to me his name:
But thus he said, Thou shalt conceive a son;
Wherefore strong drink and wine, see that thou shun,
And have a care that thou be not defil'd
With things that are unclean; for why, the child
Shall from his separation from the womb,
Become a Nazarite, ev'n to his tomb.
Manoah then did supplicate the Lord,
And said, O Lord, be pleased to afford
This favour unto me, to send again
The man of God, more fully to explain
Thy will to us, that we may rightly know,
When this child shall be born, what we must do.
And to Manoah's prayer God gave ear,
And to his wife the angel did appear
Again, as she did in the field retire,
At such time as her husband was not nigh her.
And she made haste, and ran, and strait declared
Unto her husband, that the man appeared
Again, whom she had seen the other day.
Manoah then arose, and went his way,
And when he came, he said, Art thou the man
That spakest to my wife? He said, I am.
Manoah said, Now let thy words be true;
How shall we use the child, What must we do?
Then said the angel of the Lord, let her
Of all that I have charged her beware:
She may not taste of what comes of the vine,
Nor may she drink strong drink, or any wine,
Nor may she eat of things that are unclean,
From all that I have said let her refrain.
Manoah said unto the angel, stay
With us, till we have dress'd a kid, I pray.
But he reply'd, though thou shalt me detain,
I'll eat no bread, but if thou dost design
A sacrifice unto the Lord, then offer:
For ne'er till now, Manoah did discover
It was a man of God he spake unto.
Then said he to the angel, Let me know
Thy name, that when these things shall be perform'd,
The honour due to thee may be return'd.
Whereto the man of God made this reply,
Why askest thou, since 'tis a mystery?
So he a kid, and a meat-off'ring took,
And offer'd to the Lord upon a rock.
And there the man of God did wond'rously,
The whilst Manoah and his wife stood by:
For as the altar did send up the flame,
The man of God ascended in the same.
Manoah and his wife stood looking on,
And on their faces to the ground fell down.
But then the angel did appear no more.
Manoah then knew who he was: therefore
He said unto his wife, most surely we
Shall die, for we the face of God did see.
But she reply'd, If God would such a thing,
He would not now accept our offering,
Or would he have to us these things made known;
Or told us, as at this time he hath done.
And now, according to the angel's word,
The woman bare a son, to whom the Lord
Was pleas'd, his blessing graciously to give:
She call'd him Samson, and the child did thrive.
And lo! the spirit of the Lord began,
At times to move him in the camp of Dan.

CHAP. XIV.

Now down to Timnath Samson's steps incline,
Where seeing the daughter of a Philistine,
He came up and did of his parents crave,
That he in marriage might the woman have.
Then thus his father and his mother said,
'Mongst all thy kin can'st thou find ne'er a maid;
Nor yet among my people, fit to make
A wife, but thou wilt this Philistine take,
Of race uncircumcised? He replied,
Get her for me, for I'm well satisfied.
But neither of his parents then did know,
It was the Lord that moved him thereto,
To seek a way to accomplish his designs,
Upon the then o'er-ruling Philistines.
Then Samson and his parents both went down
To Timnath, and as they came near the town,
Among the vineyards a young lion roar'd:
Then on him came the spirit of the Lord,
And though unarm'd, he rent him like a kid,
But he discovered not to them the deed.
And he went down, and with the woman treated,
And was well pleas'd to have the match completed.
And in a while as he returned again
To take his wife, behold, where he had slain
The beast, he there a swarm of bees set eye on,
And honey in the carcase of the lion:
He took thereof, and eating, on he went,
And to his parents did a part present:
And they did also eat, but did not know
That from the lion's carcase it did flow.
So down his father went unto the woman,
And Samson made a feast, as it was common
Among young men. The Philistines provide
Thirty companions with him to abide
And Samson said unto them, now behold,
I have a riddle for you to unfold;
Which if you do before the seven days' feast
Be ended, I will give to every guest
A sheet and change of garments; but if ye
Cannot declare it, ye shall give to me
Full thirty sheets, and thirty changes too.
Then said they, What's thy riddle, let us know?
And Samson said, The eater sent forth meat,
And from the strong there came a thing most sweet.
And they could not in three days find it out,
Wherefore before the seventh came about,
They said unto his wife, Thou must entice
Thy husband to discover this device
Lest we burn thee, and all thy father's house:
Is it not so, that ye have called us
To make a spoil? And Samson's wife wept sore,
And said, thou dost but hate me, and no more;
To put a riddle to my countrymen
And not tell't me. And he reply'd again,
I have not told my father or my mother,
And shall I now to thee this thing discover.
And she continually before him wept,
During the time the feasting days were kept.
And now behold it came to pass that he,
By reason of her importunity,
Did on the seventh day to her unfold
The riddle, which she to her brethren told;
And e'er the sun went down on that same day,
The Philistines to Samson thus did say,
What is more sweet than honey? What more strong
Than is a lion? And he said, how long
Would it have been, e'er you had understood
This thing, had you not with my heifer plow'd?
Then came the spirit of the Lord upon
Him, and he hasted down to Askelon,
And thirty of the Philistines he slew,
And took their clothes, and gave the garments due.
To every one of them that had disclosed
The meaning of the riddle he proposed;
And towards them his anger fiercely burned,
And he unto his father's house returned.
But Samson's wife was given unto one
That was his friend and chief companion.

CHAP. XV.

But in a while, as Samson visited
His wife, in the wheat harvest with a kid,
To her into her chamber he would go,
The which her father would not let him do;
But said, I thought that thou had'st quite forsook her,
Wherefore I gave consent, and thy friend took her;
Doth not her sister's beauty her's exceed,
Though young? I pray then take her in her stead.
And Samson said, I shall more blameless be
Than they, though I shall do them injury.
And then he caught three hundred foxes, and
Turn'd tail to tail, and put a fiery brand
Between two tails, and setting fire thereto,
Into the standing corn he let them go,
And burnt both shocks and standing corn and vines,
And all the olives of the Philistines.
Then they inquired who this thing had done,
And were inform'd it was the Timnite's son;
Because his father took his wife away,
And gave her his companion to enjoy.
And the Philistines came up, full of wrath,
And burnt with fire, her and her father both.
And Samson said, though you have done this thing,
A further evil I will on you bring;
And my avenging hand shall cease hereafter;
And hip and thigh he smote them with great slaughter.
And he return'd, and came up to the top
Of Etam, and dwelt there upon the rock.
Then the Philistines up to Judah went,
And in the vale of Lehi pitched their tent.
Then said the men of Judah, for what reason
Are you come up against us at this season?
And they made answer, We are come to bind
Samson, to do to him in the same kind
As he hath done to us. Then there went up
Three thousand men of Judah to the top
Of the rock Etam, and to Samson said,
Dost thou not know that we have long obey'd
The Philistines? Wherefore is it that thou
Hast done this thing, to bring this evil now,
Upon us, let us know it? Then said he
I did to them as they have done to me.
Then said they we are come, and have brought bands,
To bind, and give thee up into their hands.
And he made answer, you shall swear unto me,
That you yourselves no injury will do me.
And they reply'd, no no, we will but bind thee,
We will not kill thee, but to them resign thee.
And they took two new cords, and therewith tied him,
And from the rock where he abode convey him:
Whom when they to the camp at Lehi brought,
The Philistines against him gave a shout:
And mightily the Spirit of the Lord
Came on him, and like burning flax each cord
That was upon his arms became; the bands
Were likewise separated from his hands.
And he the jaw-bone of an ass espied,
And took and smote them till a thousand died.
Then said he, with an ass's jaw-bone I
Have made mine enemies in heaps to lie.
Behold I have destroy'd a thousand men
With this same worthless ass's jaw. And when
He made an end to speak, it came to pass
He cast away the jaw-bone of the ass,
And said, Now let the place where this was done
Be by the name of Ramath-Lehi known.
And he was sore athirst, and to the Lord
He cried, and said, O Lord, thou did'st afford
This great deliverance, and now shall I,
By reason of my thirst fall down and die,
And fall into the most accursed hands
Of these uncircumcis'd Philistine bands?
But God was pleas'd to cleave an hollow place,
Within the jaw, from whence did water pass;
Whereof when he had drunk, his spirit came
As heretofore, and he reviv'd again:
Wherefore that place, which is in Lehi, bore
Unto this day the name of En-hakkore.
And in the days the Philistines bore sway,
Israel for twenty years did him obey.

CHAP. XVI.

