
     The life of the great French novelist, George Sand, is as
     romantic as any of the characters in her novels. She was born
     at Paris in July, 1804, her real name being Armandine Lucile
     Aurore Dupin. At eighteen she married the son of a colonel and
     baron of the empire, by name Dudevant, but after nine years
     she separated from her husband, and, bent upon a literary
     career, made her way to Paris. Success came quickly. Entering
     into a literary partnership with her masculine friend, Jules
     Sandeau, the chief fruit of their joint enterprise was "Rose
     et Blanche." This was followed by her independent novel,
     "Indiana," a story that brought her the enthusiastic praises
     of the reading public, and the warm friendship of the most
     distinguished personages in French literary society. A few
     years later her relations with the poet Alfred De Musset
     provided the matter for what is now an historic episode. Her
     literary output was enormous, consisting of a hundred or more
     volumes of novels and stories, four volumes of autobiography,
     and six of correspondence. Yet everything that she wrote is
     marked by that richness, delicacy and power of style and of
     thought which constitutes her genius. "Consuelo," which
     appeared in 1844, is typical of all these in its sparkling
     dialogue, flowing narrative, and vivid description. George
     Sand died on June 7, 1876.


_I.--In Venice_


Little Consuelo, at the age of fourteen, was the best of all the pupils
of the Maestro Porpora, a famous Italian composer, of the eighteenth
century.

At that time in Venice a certain number of children received a musical
education at the expense of the state, and it was Porpora, the great
musician--then a soured and disappointed man--who trained the voices of
the girls. They were not equally poor, these young ladies, and among
them were the daughters of needy artists, whose wandering existence did
not permit them a long stay in Venice. Of such parentage was little
Consuelo, born in Spain, and arriving in Italy by the strange routes of
Bohemians. Not that Gonsuelo was really a gipsy. She was of good Spanish
blood, and had a calmness of mind and manner quite foreign to the
wandering races. A rare and happy temperament was hers, and, in spite of
poverty and orphanhood--for her mother, who brought her to Venice, was
dead--Consuelo worked on with Porpora, finding the labour an enjoyment,
and overcoming the difficulties of her art as if by some invisible
instinct.

When Consuelo was eighteen Count Zustiniani, having heard her sing in
Porpora's choir, decided she must come out as a prima donna in his
theatre. For the fame and success of this theatre Zustiniani cared more
than for anything else in the world--not that he was eager for money,
but because he was an enthusiast for music--a man of taste, an amateur,
whose great business in life was to gratify his taste. He liked to be
talked about and to have his theatre and his magnificence talked about.

The success of Consuelo was assured when she appeared for the first time
in Gluck's "Ipermnestra." The debutante was at once self-possessed and
serious, receiving the applause of the audience without fear or
humility. For her art itself, and not the results of art, were the main
thing, and her inward satisfaction in her performance did not depend on
the amount of approbation manifested by the public.

But Zustiniani, gratified as he was by the triumph of his new prima
donna, was not content with Consuelo's success on the stage; he also
wanted her for himself. Consuelo gravely refused the jewels and
ornaments he offered her, and the count was strangely annoyed. He was
thrilled with unknown emotions by Consuelo's singing, and his patrician
soul could not realise that this poor little pupil of Porpora's was not
to be won by the ordinary methods, which he had hitherto employed
successfully in the conquest of opera singers.

Porpora saved Consuelo from the count's threatening attentions.

The prima donna suddenly disappeared, and it was said she had gone to
Vienna, that she had been engaged for the emperor's theatre, and that
Porpora was also going there to conduct his new opera.

Count Zustiniani was particularly embarrassed by Consuelo's flight. He
had led all Venice to believe this wonderful new singer favoured his
addresses. Some, indeed, maintained for a time that, jealous of his
treasure, the count had hidden her in one of his country houses. But
when they heard Porpora say, with a blunt openness which could never
deceive, that he had advised his pupil to go to Germany and wait for
him, there was nothing left but to try and find out the motives for this
extraordinary decision.

To all inquiries addressed to him Porpora answered that no one should
ever know from him where Consuelo was to be found.

In real truth, it was not only Zustiniani who had driven Consuelo away.
A youth named Anzoleto, who had grown up in Venice with Consuelo so that
the two were as brother and sister, and who lacked both heart and
constancy, made life too hard for Consuelo. Anxious to get all the
advantages of Consuelo's friendship, and to be known as her betrothed,
so that he could procure an engagement in the opera through her generous
influence, he yet made love to another singer, a former favourite of
Zustiniani's. Learning of Anzoleto's heartless unfaithfulness, and
pressed by Zustiniani, Consuelo had turned to her old master for help,
and had not been disappointed.


_II.--In Bohemia_


Among the mountains which separate Bohemia from Bavaria stood an old
country house, known as the Castle of the Giant, the residence of the
Lords of Rudolstadt. A strange mystery reigned over this ancient family.
Count Christian Rudolstadt, the head of the house, a widower, his elder
sister, the Canoness Wenceslawa, a venerable lady of seventy, and Count
Albert, the only son and heir, lived alone with their retainers, never
associating with their neighbours. The count's brother, Baron Frederick
Rudolstadt, with his daughter Amelia, had for some time past taken up
their abode in the Castle of the Giants, and it was the hope of the two
brothers that Albert and Amelia would become betrothed. But the silence
and gloom of the place were hateful to Amelia, and Albert's deep
melancholy and absent-mindedness were not the tokens of a lover.

Albert, in fact, had so brooded over the horrors of the old wars between
Catholic and Protestant in Bohemia, that when the fit was on him he
believed himself living and acting in those terrible times, and it was
this kind of madness in his son which made Count Christian shun all
social intercourse. Albert was now thirty, and the doctors had predicted
that this year he would either conquer the fancies which took such
fierce hold on him, or succumb entirely.

One night, when the family were assembled round the hearth, the castle
bell rang, and presently a letter was brought in. It was from Porpora to
Count Christian, and the count, having read it, passed it on to Amelia.

It seemed that Christian had written to Porpora, whom he had long known
and respected, to ask him to recommend him a companion for Amelia, and
the letter now arrived not only recommended Consuelo, but Consuelo
herself had brought it.

The old count at once hastened with his niece to welcome Porporpina, as
the visitor was called, and the terror which the journey to the castle
and the first impressions of the gloomy place had struck upon the young
singer only melted at the warmth of Christian's praises of her old
master, Porpora.

From the first the whole household treated Consuelo with every kindness,
and Amelia very soon confided in her new friend all that she knew of the
family history, explaining that her cousin Albert was certainly mad.

Albert himself seemed unaware of Consuelo's presence until one day when
he heard her sing. Amelia's singing always made him uneasy and restless,
but the first time Consuelo sang--she had chosen a religious piece from
Palestrina--Albert suddenly appeared in the room, and remained
motionless till the end. Then, falling on his knees, his large eyes
swimming in tears, he exclaimed, in Spanish: "Oh, Consuelo, Consuelo! I
have at last found thee!"

"Consuelo?" cried the astonished girl, replying in the same language.
"Why, señor, do you call me by that name?"

"I call you Consolation, because a consolation has been promised to my
desolate life, and because you are that consolation which God at last
grants to my solitary and gloomy existence. Consuelo! If you leave me,
my life is at an end, and I will never return to earth again!" Saying
this he fell at her feet in a swoon; and the two girls, terrified,
called the servants to carry him to his room and restore him to
consciousness. But hardly had Albert been left alone before his
apartment was empty, and he had disappeared.

Days passed, and the anxiety at the castle remained unrelieved. It was
not the first time Albert had disappeared, but now his absence was
longer than usual. Consuelo found out the secret of his hiding-place--a
vaulted hall at the end of a long gallery in a cave in the forest was
Albert's hermitage, and a secret passage from the moat of the castle
enabled him to pass unseen to his solitude. She traced him to the
chamber in the recesses of the cavern.

Already Consuelo had discovered the two natures in Albert--the one wise,
the other mad; the one polished, tender, merciful; the other strange,
untamed and violent She saw that sympathy and firmness were both needed
in dealing with this lonely and unfortunate man--sympathy with his
religious mysticism, and firmness in urging him not to yield to the
images of his mind.

That Albert was in love with her, Consuelo understood; but to his
pleadings she had but one answer:

"Do not speak of love, do not speak of marriage. My past life, my
recollections, make the first impossible. The difference in our
conditions would render the second humiliating and insupportable to me.
Let it be enough that I will be your friend and your consoler, whenever
you are disposed to open your heart to me."

And with this Albert, for a time, professed to be content. So determined
was he, however, to win Consuelo's heart, that he readily obeyed her
advice, and even promised never to return to his hermitage without first
asking her to accompany him.

Gentle old Count Christian himself came later to plead his son's cause
with Consuelo. Amelia and her father had left the Castle of the Giants,
and Christian realised how much Consuelo had already done for the
restoration of his son's health.

"You were afraid of me, dear Consuelo," said the old man. "You thought
that the old Rudolstadt, with his aristocratic prejudices, would be
ashamed to owe his son to you. But you are mistaken, and I go to bring
my son to your feet, that together we may bless you for extending his
happiness."

"Oh, stop, my dear lord!" said Consuelo, amazed. "I am not free. I have
an object, a vocation, a calling. I belong to the art to which I have
devoted myself since my childhood. I could only renounce all this--if--
if I loved Albert. That is what I must find out. Give me at least a few
days, that I may learn whether I have this love for him within my
heart."

The arrival of the worthless Anzoleto at the Castle of the Giants drove
Consuelo once more to flight. Anzoleto had enjoyed some success at
Venice, but having incurred the wrath of Zustiniani, he was escaping to
Prague. Passing through Bohemia, the fame of a beautiful singer at the
castle of the Rudolstadts came to his ears, and Anzoleto resolved to
recover the old place he had once held in Consuelo's heart. He gave
himself out as Consuelo's brother, and was at once admitted to the
castle and treated kindly. For Consuelo, the only course open now was to
flee to Vienna, and take refuge with Porpora, and this she did, leaving
in the dead of night, after writing explanations to Christian and
Albert.


_III.--In Vienna_


The greater part of the journey to Vienna was accomplished on foot, and
Consuelo had for her travelling companion a humble youth, whose name was
Joseph Haydn, and whose great musical genius was yet to be recognized by
the world.

Many months had elapsed since Consuelo had seen her master and
benefactor, and to the joy which she experienced in pressing old Porpora
in her arms a painful feeling soon succeeded. Vexation and sorrow had
imprinted their marks on the brow of the old maestro. He looked far
older, and the fire of his countenance seemed chilled by age. The
unfortunate composer had flattered himself that he would find in Vienna
fresh chances of success and fortune; but he was received there with
cold esteem, and happier rivals were in possession of the imperial
favour and the public admiration. Being neither a flatterer nor an
intriguer, Porpora's rough frankness was no passport to influence, and
his ill-humour made enemies rather than friends. He held out no hopes to
Consuelo.

"There are no ears to listen, no hearts to comprehend you in this place,
my child," he said sadly. "If you wish to succeed, you would do well to
follow the master to whom they owe their skill and their fortune."

But when Consuelo told him of the proposal made by Count Albert, and of
Count Christian's desire for her marriage with his son, the tyrannical
old musician at once put his foot down.

"You must not think of the young count!" he said fiercely. "I positively
forbid you! Such a union is not suitable. Count Christian would never
permit you to become an artist again. I know the unconquerable pride of
these nobles, and you cannot hesitate for an instant between the career
of nobility and that of art."

So resolute was Porpora that Consuelo should not be tempted from the
life he had trained her for, that he did not hesitate to destroy,
unread, her letters to the Rudolstadts, and letters from Count Christian
and Albert. He even wrote to Christian himself, declaring that Consuelo
desired nothing but the career of a public singer.

But when, after many disappointments and rebuffs, Consuelo at last was
appointed to take the prima donna's place for six days at the imperial
opera house, she was frightened at the prospect of the toils and
struggles before her feverish arena of the theatre seemed to her a place
of terror and the Castle of the Giants a lost paradise, an abode of
peace and virtue.

Consuelo's triumph at the opera had been indisputable. Her voice was
sweeter and richer than when she sang in Venice, and a perfect storm of
flowers fell upon the stage at the end of the performance. Amid these
perfumed gifts Consuelo saw a green branch fall at her feet, and when
the curtain was lowered for the last time she picked it up. It was a
bunch of cypress, a symbol of grief and despair.

To add to her distress, she was now conscious that her love for Albert
was a reality, and no answer had come from him or from Count Christian
to the letters she had sent. Twice in the six days at the opera she had
caught a glimpse, so it seemed to her, of Count Albert, but on both
occasions the figure had melted away without a word, and unobserved by
all at the theatre.

No further engagement followed at the opera, and Consuelo's thoughts
turned more and more to the Rudolstadts. If only she could hear from
Christian or his son, she would know whether she was free to devote
herself absolutely to her art. For she had made her promise to Count
Christian that she would send him word should she feel sure of being in
love with Albert; and now that word had been sent, and no reply had
come.

Porpora, with a promise of an engagement at the royal theatre in Berlin,
and anxious to take Consuelo with him, had confessed, in answer to her
objection to leaving Vienna before hearing from Christian, that letters
had come from the Rudolstadts, which he had destroyed.

"The old count was not at all anxious to have a daughter-in-law picked
up behind the scenes," said Porpora, "and so the good Albert sets you at
liberty."

Consuelo never suspected her master of this profound deceit, and, taking
the story he had invented for truth, signed an agreement to go to Berlin
for two months.


_IV.--The Return to Bohemia_


The carriage containing Porpora and Consuelo had reached the city of
Prague, and was on the bridge that spans the Moldau, when a horseman
approached and looked in at the window, gazing with a tranquil
curiosity. Porpora pushed him back, exclaiming:

"How dare you stare at ladies so closely."

The horseman replied in Bohemian, and Consuelo, seeing his face, called
out:

"Is it the Baron Frederick of Rudolstadt?"

"Yes, it is I, signora!" replied the baron, in a dejected tone. "The
brother of Christian, the uncle of Albert. And in truth, is it you
also?"

The baron accompanied them to a hotel, and there explained to Consuelo
that he had received a letter from the canoness, his sister, bidding
him, at Albert's request, be on the bridge of Prague at seven o'clock
that evening.

"The first carriage that passes you will stop; if the first person you
see in it can leave for the castle that same evening, Albert, perhaps,
will be saved. At least, he says it will give him a hold on eternal
life. I do not know what he means, but he has the gift of prophecy and
the perception of hidden things. The doctors have given up all hope for
his life."

"Is the carriage ready, sir?" Consuelo said, when the latter was
finished. "If so I am ready also, and we can set out instantly."

"I shall follow you," said Porpora. "Only we must be in Berlin in a
week's time."

The carriage and horses were already in the courtyard, and in a few
minutes the baron and Consuelo were on their journey to the castle of
the Rudolstadts.

At the doorway of the castle they were met by the aged canoness, who,
seizing Consuelo by the arm, said:

"We have not a moment to lose. Albert begins to grow impatient. He has
counted the hours and minutes till your arrival, and announced your
approach before we heard the sound of the carriage wheels. He was sure
of your coming; but, he said, if any accident detained you, it would be
too late. Signora, in the name of Heaven, do not oppose any of his
wishes; promise all he asks; pretend to love him. Albert's hours are
numbered; his life is close. All we ask of you is to soothe his
sufferings." Then, as they approached the great saloon, she added, "Take
courage, signora. You need not be afraid of surprising him, for he
expects you, and has seen you coming hours ago."

The door opened and Consuelo darted forward to her lover. Albert was
seated in a large arm-chair before the fire. It was no longer a man, it
was a spectre, Consuelo saw. His face, still beautiful, was as a face of
marble. There was no smile on his lips, no ray of joy in his eyes.
Consuelo knelt before him; he looked fixedly at her, and then, giving a
sign to the canoness, she placed his arms on Consuelo's shoulders. Then
she made the young girl lay her head on Albert's breast, and the dying
man whispered in her ear: "I am happy." With another sign, he made the
canoness understand that she and his father were to kiss his betrothed.

"From my very heart!" exclaimed the canoness, with emotion. The old
count who had been holding his brother's hand in one of his and
Porpora's in the other, left them to embrace Consuelo fervently.

The doctor urged an immediate marriage.

"I can answer positively for nothing," he said, "but I venture to think
much good may come of it. Your excellency consented to this marriage
formerly----"

"I always consented to it. I never opposed it," said the count. "It was
Master Porpora who wrote to say that he would never consent, and that
she likewise had renounced all idea. Alas, it was the death-blow to my
unhappy child!"

"Do not grieve," murmured Albert to Consuelo. "I have understood for
many days now that you were faithful. I know that you have endeavoured
to love me, and have succeeded. But we have been deceived, and you must
forgive your master, as I forgive him."

Consuelo looked at Porpora, and the old musician reproached himself for
homicide, and burst into tears. Only Consuelo's consent was necessary,
and this was given.

The marriage was hastened on. Porpora and the doctor served as
witnesses. Albert found strength to pronounce a decisive "Yes," and the
other responses in the service in a clear voice, and the family from
this felt a new hope for his recovery. Hardly had the chaplain recited
the closing prayer over the newly-married couple, before Albert arose
and threw himself into his father's arms; then, seating himself again in
his arm-chair, he pressed Consuelo to his heart, and exclaimed:

"I am saved!"

"It is nature's last effort," said the doctor.

Albert's arms loosed their hold, and fell forward on his knees. His gaze
was riveted on Consuelo; gradually the shade crept from his forehead to
his lips, and covered his face with a snowy veil.

"It is the hand of Death!" said the doctor, breaking the silence.

Consuelo would take neither her husband's title nor his riches.

"Stay with us, my daughter?" cried the canoness, "for you have a lofty
soul and a great heart!"

But Consuelo tore herself away after the funeral, though her heart was
wrung with grief. As she crossed the drawbridge with Porpora, Consuelo
did not know that already the old count was dead, and that the Castle of
the Giants, with its riches and its sufferings, had become the property
of the Countess of Rudolstadt.

       *       *       *       *       *


Mauprat


     It was while George Sand was pleading for a separation from
     her husband, on the ground of incompatibility of temperament,
     that "Mauprat" was written, and the powerful story, full of
     storm, sentiment, and passion, bears the marks of its
     tumultuous birth.


_I.--Bernard Mauprat's Childhood_


In the district of Varenne, within a gloomy ravine, stands the ruined
castle of Roche-Mauprat. It is a place I never pass at night without
some feeling of uneasiness; and now I have just learnt its history from
Bernard Mauprat, the last of the line.

Bernard Mauprat is eighty-four and no man is more represented in the
province. Passing his house with a friend who knew the old man, we
ventured to call, and were received with stately welcome. Later Mauprat
told us his story in the following words:

There were formerly two branches of the Mauprat family and I belonged to
the elder. My grandfather was that Tristan de Mauprat whose crimes are
still remembered. My father was his eldest son, and on his death, which
occurred at a shooting party, the only living member of the younger
branch, the chevalier, Hubert de Mauprat, a widower with an infant
daughter, begged that he might be allowed to adopt me, promising to make
me his heir. My grandfather refused the offer, and when I was seven
years old and my mother died--poisoned some said by my grandfather--I
was carried off by that terrible man to his house at Roche-Mauprat. I
only knew afterwards that my father was the only son of Tristan's who
had married and that consequently I was the heir to the property.

It was a terrible journey I made with my grandfather but more terrible
still was the life led at Roche-Mauprat by Tristan and his eight sons.
Beset by creditors, the Mauprats with a dozen peasants and poachers
defied the civil laws as they had already broken all moral laws. They
formed themselves into a body of adventurers, levying blackmail on the
small farms of the neighbourhood, intimidating the tax-collectors and at
times not hesitating from petty thefts at fairs. Masters and servants
were united in bonds of infamy. Debauchery, extortion, fraud, and
cruelty were the precept and example of my youth. All notions of justice
were scoffed at, and the civilisation, the light of education, and the
philosophy of social equality, then spreading in France and preparing
the way for the convulsion of the Revolution, found no entrance at
Roche-Mauprat.

The eight sons, the pride and strength of old Mauprat, all resembled him
in physical vigour, brutality of manners, and in a cunning ill-nature.
They gave themselves the airs of knights of the twelfth century. What
elsewhere was called assassination and robbery I was taught to call
battle and conquest. The frightful tortures heaped upon prisoners by my
uncles gave me a horrible uneasiness, but what kept me from admiring the
savagery that surrounded me was the ill-usage I received myself. I grew
up without conceiving any liking for vice, but a tendency to hatred was
fostered. Of virtue or simple human affection I knew nothing, and a
blind and brutal anger was nourished in my breast.

As the years went by Roche-Mauprat became more and more isolated. People
left the neighbourhood to escape our violent depredations, and in
consequence we had to go farther afield for plunder. I joined in the
robberies as a soldier serves in a campaign, but on more than one
occasion I helped some unfortunate man who had been knocked down to get
up and escape.

My grandfather died when I was fifteen. A year later and so threatened
were we by crown officers, private creditors and infuriated peasants,
that it was a question of either fleeing the country or bracing
ourselves for a decisive struggle, and if needs be finding a grave under
the ruins of the castle.


_II.--Meet my Cousin Edmée_


One night, when wind and rain beat fiercely against the old walls of the
castle and I sat at supper with my uncles, a horn was heard at the
portcullis. I had been drinking heavily, and boasting that I would make
a conquest of the first woman brought to Roche-Mauprat--for I had been
rallied on my modesty--when a second blast of the horn announced that it
was my Uncle Lawrence bringing in a prize.

"If it is a woman," cried my Uncle Antony, as he went out to the
portcullis, "I swear by the soul of my father that she shall be yours,
and we'll see if your courage is equal to your conceit."

When the door opened again a woman entered, and one of the Mauprats
whispered to me that the young lady had lost her way at a wolf hunt and
that Lawrence, meeting her in the forest, had promised to escort her to
Rochemaure where she had friends. Never having seen the face of one of
my uncles, and little dreaming she was near their haunt, for she had
never had a glimpse of Roche-Mauprat, she was led into the castle
without having the least suspicion of the trap into which she had
fallen. When I beheld this woman, so young and so beautiful, with her
expression of calm sincerity and goodness, it seemed to me I was
dreaming.

My uncles withdrew, for Antony had pledged his word, and I was left
alone with the stranger. For a moment I felt more bewildered and
stupefied than pleased. With the fumes of wine in my head I could only
suppose this lady was some acquaintance of Lawrence's, and that she had
been told of my drunken boast and was willing to put my gallantry to the
proof. I got up and bolted and double-locked the door.

She was sitting close to the fire, drying her wet garments, without
noticing what I had done. I made up my mind to kiss her, but no sooner
had she raised her eyes to mine than this familiarity became impossible.
All I could say, was:

"Upon my word, mademoiselle, you are a charming creature, and I love
you--as true as my name is Bernard Mauprat."

"Bernard Mauprat!" she cried, springing up; "you are Bernard Mauprat,
you? In that case learn to whom you are speaking, and change your
manners."

"Really!" I said with a grin, "but let my lips meet yours, and you shall
see if I am not as nicely mannered as those uncles of mine."

Her lips grew white. Her agony was manifest in every gesture. I
shuddered myself, and was in a state of great perplexity.

This woman was beautiful as the day. I do not believe that there has
ever lived a woman as lovely as she. And this was the first trial of her
life.

She was my young cousin, Edmée de Mauprat, daughter of M. Hubert de
Mauprat, the chevalier. She was of my age, for we were both seventeen,
and I ought to have protected her against the world at the peril of my
life.

"I swear by Christ," she said, taking my hands in hers, "that I am
Edmée, your cousin, your prisoner--yes, and your friend, for I have
always felt an interest in you."

Her words were cut short by the report of a gun outside; more shots were
heard and the alarm trumpet sounded.

I heard my Uncle Lawrence shouting violently at the door. "Where is that
coward? Where is that wretched boy? Bernard, the mounted police are
attacking us, and you are amusing yourself by making love while our
throats are being cut. Come and help us, Bernard."

"May the devil take the lot of you," I cried, "if I believe a single
word of all this."

But the shots rang out louder and for half an hour the fighting was most
desperate. Our band amounted to twenty-four all told, and the enemy were
fifty soldiers in addition to a score of peasants.

As soon as I learnt that we were really being attacked, I had taken my
weapons and done what I called my duty, after leaving Edmée locked in
the room.

After three assaults had been repulsed there was a long lull, and I
returned to my captive. The fear lest my uncles should get possession of
Edmée made me mad. I kept on telling her I loved her and wanted her for
myself, and seeing what an animal it was she had to deal with, my cousin
made up her mind accordingly. She threw her arms round me, and let me
kiss her. "Do you love me?" she asked.

From this moment the victory was hers. The wolf in me was conquered, and
the man rose in its place.

"Yes, I love you! Yes, I love you!"

"Well, then," she said distractedly, "let us love each other and escape
together."

"Yes; let us escape," I answered. "I loathe this house, and I loathe my
uncles. I have long wanted to escape. And yet I shall only be hanged,
you know." For I knew I had as much to fear from the besiegers as from
the besieged.

"They won't hang you," she rejoined with a laugh; "my betrothed is a
lieutenant-general."

"Your betrothed!" I burst out in a fit of jealousy. "You are going to be
married?"

"And why not?"

"Swear that you will not marry before I die. Swear that you will be mine
sooner than this lieutenant-general's," I cried.

