This book is a grievous failure--that is, if the merits of books are to
be adjudged with their titles. The writer is the author of _Stories of
Waterloo_, from whom better things might have been expected. He has
taken for his model, Mr. Lloyd's really excellent _Field Sports of the
North of Europe_; but he has woefully missed his mark. The title of
the work before us is equivocal: a reader might as reasonably expect the
Sports of the Western World, as adventures in Ireland, such as make up
the present volumes. What we principally complain of is the paucity of
Sports among their contents. It is true that the title also promises
Legendary Tales and Local Sketches, but here they are the substance, and
the Wild Sports mere shadow. We have too little of "the goodly rivers,"
"all sorts of fish," "the sweet islands and goodly lakes, like little
inland seas," "of the most beautiful and sweet countrey," as Spenser
phrases it in the author's title-page; and there is not so much as the
author promises in his preface, of shooting the wild moors and fishing
the waters, of days spent by "fell and flood," and light and joyous
nights in mountain bivouacs and moorland huts. There is too much
hearsay, and storytelling not to the purpose, and trifling gossip of
"exquisite potatoes" and "rascally sherry"--details which would disgrace
a half-crown guide book, and ought certainly not to be set forth with
spaced large type in hotpressed octavos at a costly rate. Nevertheless,
the work may suit club-room tables and circulating libraries, though it
will not be allowed place for vivid display of Wild Sports. We quote two
extracts--one, a narrative which the author knows to be substantially
true; the other, relating to the attack of eagles, (though we omit the
oft-told tale of the peasant attempting to rob an eagle's nest, and his
hair turning white with fright):--


_The Blind Seal._

About forty years ago a young seal was taken in Clew Bay, and
domesticated in the kitchen of a gentleman whose house was situated on
the sea-shore. It grew apace, became familiar with the servants, and
attached to the house and family; its habits were innocent and gentle,
it played with the children, came at its master's call, and, as the old
man described him to me, was "fond as a dog, and playful as a kitten."

Daily the seal went out to fish, and after providing for his own wants,
frequently brought in a salmon or turbot to his master. His delight in
summer was to bask in the sun, and in winter to lie before the fire, or,
if permitted, creep into the large oven, which at that time formed the
regular appendage of an Irish kitchen.

For four years the seal had been thus domesticated, when, unfortunately,
a disease, called in this country _the crippawn_--a kind of
paralytic affection of the limbs which generally ends fatally--attacked
some black cattle belonging to the master of the house; some died others
became infected, and the customary cure produced by changing them to
drier pasture failed. A wise woman was consulted, and the hag assured
the credulous owner, that the mortality among his cows was occasioned
by his retaining an unclean beast about his habitation--the harmless
and amusing seal. It must be made away with directly, or the crippawn
would continue, and her charms be unequal to avert the malady. The
superstitious wretch consented to the hag's proposal; the seal was put
on board a boat, carried out beyond Clare Island, and there committed to
the deep, to manage for himself as he best could. The boat returned, the
family retired to rest, and next morning a servant awakened her master
to tell him that the seal was quietly sleeping in the oven. The poor
animal over night came back to his beloved home, crept through an open
window, and took possession of his favourite resting-place.

Next morning another cow was reported to be unwell. The seal must now
be finally removed; a Galway fishing-boat was leaving Westport on her
return home, and the master undertook to carry off the seal, and not
put him overboard until he had gone leagues beyond Innis Boffin. It was
done--a day and night passed; the second evening closed--the servant
was raking the fire for the night--something scratched gently at the
door--it was of course the house-dog---she opened it, and in came the
seal! Wearied with his long and unusual voyage, he testified by a
peculiar cry, expressive of pleasure, his delight to find himself at
home, then stretching himself before the glowing embers of the hearth
he fell into a deep sleep.

The master of the house was immediately apprized of this unexpected
and unwelcome visit. In the exigency, the beldame was awakened and
consulted; she averred that it was always unlucky to kill a seal, but
suggested that the animal should be deprived of sight, and a third time
carried out to sea. To this hellish proposition the besotted wretch who
owned the house consented, and the affectionate and confiding creature
was cruelly robbed of sight, on that hearth for which he had resigned
his native element! Next morning, writhing in agony, the mutilated seal
was embarked, taken outside Clare Island, and for the last time
committed to the waves.

A week passed over, and things became worse instead of better; the
cattle of the truculent wretch died fast, and the infernal hag gave
him the pleasurable tidings that her arts were useless, and that the
destructive visitation upon his cattle exceeded her skill and cure.

On the eighth night after the seal had been devoted to the Atlantic, it
blew tremendously. In the pauses of the storm a wailing noise at times
was faintly heard at the door; the servants, who slept in the kitchen,
concluded that the _Banshee_ came to forewarn them of an approaching
death, and buried their heads in the bed-coverings. When morning broke
the door was opened--the seal was there lying dead upon the threshold!"

"Stop, Julius!" I exclaimed, "give me a moment's time to curse all
concerned in this barbarism."

"Be patient, Frank," said my cousin, "the _finale_ will probably
save you that trouble. The skeleton of the once plump animal--for, poor
beast, it perished from hunger, being incapacitated from blindness to
procure its customary food--was buried in a sand-hill, and from that
moment misfortunes followed the abettors and perpetrators of this
inhuman deed. The detestable hag, who had denounced the inoffensive
seal, was, within a twelvemonth, hanged for murdering the illegitimate
offspring of her own daughter. Every thing about this devoted house
melted away--sheep rotted, cattle died, 'and blighted was the corn.'
Of several children none reached maturity, and the savage proprietor
survived every thing he loved or cared for. He died _blind_ and
miserable.

"There is not a stone of that accursed building standing upon another.
The property has passed to a family of a different name, and the series
of incessant calamity which pursued all concerned in this cruel deed is
as romantic as true."


_Visit to the Eagle's Cliff, in Inniskea._

We ascended the hill (while the crew were clearing and baiting their
spillets) in the vague hope of getting a shot at these predatory birds,
of whose spoliations we had heard so much on the preceding evening.

On reaching the bottom of the rock, in whose face the aërie stands, we
discovered that the old birds were absent, and as the nest was formed in
a deep fissure, we could not ascertain its situation exactly. But that
the eagles' dwelling was above us was evident, enough: the base of the
cliff was strewn with bones and feathers, and the accumulation of both
was extraordinary. The bones of rabbits, hares, and domestic fowls, were
most numerous, but those of smaller game, and various sorts of fish,
were visible among the heap.

Many attempts are annually made to destroy this predatory family. It is
impossible to rob the nest. Situated two hundred feet above the base of
the rock, it is of course unapproachable from below, and as the cliffs
beetle over it frightfully, to assail it from above would be a hazardous
essay. An enterprising peasant, some years since, was let down by a rope
and basket,--but he was fiercely attacked by the old birds, and the
basket nearly overturned. Fortunately the cord was strong and had
sufficient length to allow his being lowered rapidly, or he would have
undoubtedly sustained some bodily injury from the wings and talons of
those enraged and savage birds.

The village of Dugurth suffers heavily from its unfortunate proximity to
the aërie. When the wind blows from a favourable point, the eagle in the
grey of morning sweeps through the cabins, and never fails in carrying
off some prey.

To black fowls eagles appear particularly attached, and the villagers
avoid as much as possible rearing birds of that colour.

A few days before, one of the coast-guard, alarmed by the cries of a
boy, rushed from the watch-house; the eagle had taken up a black hen,
and, as he passed within a few yards, the man flung his cap at him. The
eagle dropped the bird; it was quite dead, however, the talons having
shattered the back-bone. The villagers say (with what truth I know not)
that turkeys are never taken.

That the eagle is extremely destructive to fish, and particularly so to
salmon, many circumstances would prove. They are constantly discovered
watching the fords in the spawning season, and are seen to seize and
carry off the fish. One curious anecdote I heard from my friend the
priest. Some years since a herdsman, on a very sultry day in July, while
looking for a missing sheep, observed an eagle posted on a bank that
overhung a pool. Presently the bird stooped and seized a salmon, and a
violent struggle ensued; when the herd reached the spot, he found the
eagle pulled under water by the strength of the fish, and the calmness
of the day, joined to drenched plumage, rendered him unable to extricate
himself. With a stone the peasant broke the eagle's pinion, and actually
secured the spoiler and his victim, for he found the salmon dying in his
grasp.

When shooting on Lord Sligo's mountains, near the Killeries, I heard
many particulars of the eagle's habit and history from a grey-haired
peasant who had passed a long life in these wilds. The scarcity of
hares, which here were once abundant, he attributed to the rapacity of
those birds; and he affirmed, that when in pursuit of these animals, the
eagle evinced a degree of intelligence that appeared extraordinary. They
coursed the hares, he said, with great judgment and certain success; one
bird was the active follower, while the other remained in reserve, at
the distance of forty or fifty yards. If the hare, by a sudden turn,
freed himself from his most pressing enemy, the second bird instantly
took up the chase, and thus prevented the victim from having a moment's
respite.

He had remarked the eagles also while they were engaged in fishing.
They chose a small ford upon the rivulet which connects Glencullen with
Glandullagh, and posted on either side waited patiently for the salmon
to pass over. Their watch was never fruitless,--and many a salmon, in
its transit from the sea to the lake, was transferred from his native
element to the wild aërie in the Alpine cliff; that beetles over the
romantic waters of Glencullen.

[The volumes are handsomely printed, and embellished with aqua-tint
plates and clever vignettes: some of the latter, by Bagg, are spirited
performances on wood.]

       *       *       *       *       *


PETER THE GREAT.


[What a mine of adventure and incident is the life of this extraordinary
man. A modern French writer enumerates 95 authors who have treated of
his actions, and concludes the list with _et cetera_ threefold.
What a field for the editors of the compilation libraries--wherein they
may store their little garners or volumes to advantage. Such has the
editor of the _Family Library_ done in the volume before us; although
he has only consulted one-fourth of the above number of authorities
for his memoir of the life of the Tzar. He prefaces with the modest
observation that he has done little more than bring together and arrange
the scattered fragments of Histories, Lives, Anecdotes, and Notices, in
manuscript and in print, "of one of the most extraordinary characters
that ever appeared on the great theatre of the world, in any age or
country;--a Being full of contradictions, yet consistent in all that he
did; a promoter of literature, arts, and sciences, yet without education
himself; the civilizer of his people, 'he gave a polish,' says Voltaire,
'to his nation, and was Himself a savage; he taught his people the art
of war, of which he was himself ignorant; from the first glance of a
small cock-boat, at the distance of five hundred miles of the nearest
sea, he became an expert ship-builder, created a powerful fleet, partly
constructed with his own hands, made himself an active and expert
sailor, a skilful pilot, a great captain: in short, he changed the
manners, the habits, the laws of the people, and very face of the
country." How different is this course of activity to the usual
luxurious lives of the sovereigns of civilized countries: how ill
assort Peter's "savage" notions with the accomplished ease and personal
elegance of a succeeding autocrat: how wide is the contrast between
Peter's ship-building education, and the youth of a prince passed
amidst court corruptionists--or pilotage over the boundless ocean, and
launching gilded pleasure-boats upon an unruffled lake; personally
watching the welfare of his subjects, or slinking into retirement, and
leaving their interests to the intrigues of party. Yet, such are a few
of the opposite characteristics--the every-day occupations--of the great
Tzar of Russia, and of the kingships of the last and present centuries.

The events of the life of Peter may be well known in detail to the
reader of the history of modern Europe. Yet they must be gathered from
many volumes; while in the above little book we have them brought in
amusing and sufficiently copious narrative, within 350 pages. We have
here the Tzar's war with Sweden--Narva, Pultowa, and the Pruth; but the
incidents that will prove most interesting to the _Family_ readers
are the domestic habits--the unkingly life of Peter; and above all, his
visit to England--how he drank deeply of pepper and brandy, lodged in
Buckingham-street, Strand; spoiled Mr. Evelyn's holly hedge at Sayes;
and peeped from the roof of the House of Lords at the King upon his
throne. We shall therefore endeavour to abridge a few of these
entertaining anecdotic details from the chapter devoted to the Tzar's
stay in England.]

Two ships of war and a yacht, under the orders of Admiral Mitchell, were
despatched to Helvoetsluys to bring over the Tzar, who, with his suite,
consisting of Menzikoff and some others, whose names are not mentioned,
embarked at that port on the 18th of January, 1698, and on the 21st
reached London. Here no secret was attempted to be made of his rank, but
he requested to be treated only as a private gentleman; and it is
remarkable enough that, though he paid frequent visits to the King, and
attended his court, his name never once appears in the only official
paper which then, as indeed now, was and is in existence, the London
Gazette. Lord Shrewsbury, at this time, was Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs; but as the Tzar came not in any public character, he
appears to have been placed under the especial charge of the Marquess
Carmarthen, who was made lord president of the Council in the following
year. Between this nobleman and Peter a very considerable intimacy took
place, which was uninterrupted during the Tzar's abode in England. A
large house was hired for him and his suite at the bottom of
York-buildings where, it is stated in a private letter, the Marquess and
he used to spend their evenings together frequently in drinking "hot
pepper and brandy." The great failing of Peter, indeed, was his love of
strong liquors. We find in one of the papers of the day, that he took a
particular fancy to the nectar ambrosia, "the new cordial so called,
which the author, or compounder of it, presented him with, and that his
Majesty sent for more of it."

Of the proceedings of the Tzar, during the four months he remained
in England, very little is recorded in the few journals or other
publications of that day; the former consisting chiefly of the
_Postmaster_, the _Postman_, and the _Postboy_.

In the _Postboy_ it is stated that, on the day after his arrival,
the Tzar of Muscovy was at Kensington, to see his Majesty at dinner, as
also the court; but he was all the while _incognito._ And on the
Saturday following he was at the playhouse, to see the opera; that on
the Friday night the revels ended at the Temple, the same being
concluded by a fine masquerade, at which the Tzar of Muscovy was
present; that on the following Sunday he went in a hackney-coach to
Kensington, and returned at night to his lodgings in Norfolk-street,[7]
where he was attended by several of the King's servants.

His movements, during the rest of the month, were a journey to Woolwich
and Deptford, to see the docks and yards; then to the theatre, to see
the Rival Queens, or Alexander the Great; to St. James's, to be present
at a fine ball; and, it is further stated that he was about to remove
from Norfolk-street (York buildings) to Redriff, where a ship was
building for him; and that he was about to go to Chatham, to see a
man-of-war launched, which he was to name; and that on the 15th of
February, accompanied by the Marquess of Carmarthen, he went to
Deptford, and having spent some time on board the "Royal Transport,"
they were afterwards splendidly treated by Admiral Mitchell. These are
the principal notices concerning the Tzar Peter contained in the
_Postboy._

It is evident that London could not be very agreeable to him, on two
accounts; first, because his great object in coming here was to see our
dock-yard establishments, and to profit also by observing our mode of
making draughts of ships, and laying them off in the mould-loft; and to
acquire some knowledge in the theory of naval architecture and
navigation, which he had heard, when in Holland, was superior to what he
had seen or could obtain in that country, though it was assumed that the
mechanical part of finishing and putting together a ship was there fully
equal, if not superior, to ours.

In the next place, he was equally annoyed by the crowds he was
continually meeting in the streets of London, as he had been in
Amsterdam, and which he could not bear with becoming patience. It is
said that, as he was one day walking along the Strand, with his friend
the Marquess of Carmarthen, a porter, with a hod on his shoulder, rudely
pushed against him and drove him into the kennel. He was extremely
indignant, and ready to knock him down; but the Marquess interfering,
asked the man what he meant, and if he knew whom he had so rudely run
against, and "that it was the Tzar." The porter, turning round, replied,
with a grin, "Tzar! we are all Tzars here." But that which annoyed him
most of all, was the intrusion of our countrymen into his lodgings, and
into the room even where he was eating, to which they gained access
through the king's servants. Disgusted at their impertinent curiosity
he would sometimes rise from table, and leave the room in a rage. To
prevent this intrusion, he strictly charged his domestics not to admit
any persons whatever let their rank be what it might. A kind of forced
interview, however, was obtained by two Quakers, the account of which,
as given by one of them, is singular and interesting.

One month's residence having satisfied Peter as to what was to be seen
in London, and having expressed a strong desire to be near some of the
King's dockyards, it was arranged that a suitable residence should be
found near one of the river establishments; and the house of the
celebrated Mr. Evelyn, close to Deptford Dock-yard, being about to
become vacant, by the removal of Admiral Benbow, who was then its
tenant, it was immediately taken for the residence of the Tzar and
his suite; and a doorway was broken through the boundary wall of
the dock-yard, to afford a direct communication between it and the
dwelling-house. This place had then the name of Saye's Court. It was the
delight of Evelyn, and the wonder and admiration of all men of taste at
that time. The grounds are described, in the life of the Lord Keeper
Guildford, "as most boscaresque, being, as it were, an exemplary of
his (Evelyn's) book of forest trees." Admiral Benbow had given great
dissatisfaction to the proprietor as a tenant, for he observes in his
Diary--"I have the mortification of seeing, every day, much of my labour
and expense there impairing from want of a more polite tenant." It
appears, however, that the princely occupier was not a more "polite
tenant" than the rough sailor had been, for Mr. Evelyn's servant thus
writes to him,--"There is a house full of people _right nasty._ The
Tzar lies next your library, and dines in the parlour next your study.
He dines at ten o'clock and six at night; is very seldom at home a whole
day; very often in the King's yard, or by water, dressed in several
dresses. The King is expected there this day; the best parlour is pretty
clean for him to be entertained in. The King pays for all he has."[8]
But this was not all: Mr. Evelyn had a favourite holly-hedge, through
which, it is said, the Tzar, by way of exercise, used to be in the habit,
every morning, of trundling a wheel-barrow. Mr. Evelyn probably alludes
to this in the following passage, wherein he asks, "Is there, under the
heavens, a more glorious and refreshing object, of the kind, than an
impregnable hedge, of about four hundred feet in length, nine feet high,
and five in diameter, which I can still show in my ruined garden at
Saye's Court (thanks to the Tzar of Muscovy), at any time of the year,
glittering with its armed and variegated leaves; the taller standards,
at orderly distances, blushing with their natural coral? It mocks the
rudest assaults of the weather, beasts, or hedge-breakers,--et ilium
nemo impune lacessit."[9]

Alas! for the glory of the glittering hollies, trimmed hedges, and long
avenues of Saye's Court; Time, that great innovator, has demolished them
all, and Evelyn's favourite haunts and enchanting grounds have been
transformed into cabbage gardens; that portion of the Victualling-yard
where oxen and hogs are slaughtered and salted for the use of the navy,
now occupies the place of the shady walks and the trimmed hedges, which
the good old Evelyn so much delighted in; and on the site of the ancient
mansion now stands the common parish workhouse of Deptford Stroud.

We have little evidence that the Tzar, during his residence here,
ever worked as a shipwright; it would seem he was employed rather in
acquiring information on matters connected with naval architecture, from
that intelligent commissioner of the navy and surveyor, Sir Anthony
Deane, who, after the Marquess of Carmarthen, was his most intimate
English acquaintance. His fondness for sailing and managing boats,
however, was as eager here as in Holland; and these gentlemen were
almost daily with him on the Thames, sometimes in a sailing yacht, and
at others rowing in boats,--an exercise in which both the Tzar and the
Marquess are said to have excelled. The Navy Board received directions
from the Admiralty to hire two vessels, to be at the command of the
Tzar, whenever he should think proper to sail on the Thames, to improve
himself in seamanship. In addition to these, the King made him a present
of the "Royal Transport," with orders to have such alterations and
accommodations made in her, as his Tzarish Majesty might desire, and
also to change her masts, rigging, sails, &c., in any such way as he
might think proper for improving her sailing qualities. But his great
delight was to get into a small decked boat, belonging to the Dock-yard,
and taking only Menzikoff, and three or four others of his suite, to
work the vessel with them, he being the helmsman; by this practice he
said he should be able to teach them how to command ships when they
got home. Having finished their day's work, they used to resort to a
public-house in Great Tower-street, close to Tower Hill, to smoke their
pipes and drink beer and brandy. The landlord had the Tzar of Muscovy's
head painted and put up for his sign, which continued till the year
1808, when a person of the name of Waxel took a fancy to the old sign,
and offered the then occupier of the house to paint him a new one for
it. A copy was accordingly made from the original, which maintains its
station to the present day, as the sign of the "Tzar of Muscovy,"
looking like a true Tartar.

(_To be concluded in our next._)

    [7] This is an oversight of the Editor, as the Tzar resided in the
        last house in Buckingham-street, towards the river on the east
        side. It is a handsome mansion, containing some very spacious
        apartments, with some few relics of its original decoration.
        Upon the site of this and the adjoining streets was formerly a
        palace of the archbishops of York, the only vestige of which is
        the water-gate, called York Stairs erected by Inigo Jones.
        Throughout the narrative it will be seen that the Editor has
        mistaken Norfolk-street for Buckingham-street.--_Ed. M._

    [8] Memoirs of J. Evelyn.


    [9] Evelyn's Sylva.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *


STOMACH OF THE OSTRICH.

(_To the Editor_.)


Allow me to add, as a further illustration of the various and uncommon
substances sometimes found in the stomach of the Ostrich, mentioned at
page 262 of _The Mirror_, a fact which came under my own observation a
few months since, on the occasion of dissecting two full-grown birds
intended for the Surrey Zoological Gardens; but, which died while
performing quarantine in Stangate Creek. On opening the maw, the stomach
appeared distended to its fullest extent, and contained not less than
half a bushel of various substances, besides a large quantity of the
usual food in an undigested state, as, maize, barley, potatoes, onions,
&c. There was nearly a peck of stones, most of which were as smooth
and as highly polished as if they had passed through the hands of the
lapidary; a sample of which I enclose you. Among this mass I found
portions of tobacco-pipe, pieces of china and glass, brass buttons,
copper coins, nails, and what most likely caused the death of the bird,
a large quantity apparently of the head of a woollen mop, with portions
of oakum, which from its size and quantity had proved too much for the
bird to digest. It would appear, however, that many substances remain
for years in the folds of the stomach, without injury; as on opening
an Ostrich that died at Exeter 'Change after being some years in the
possession of Mr. Cross, there were found besides a large quantity of
rubbish, a handful of buttons, nails, marbles, stones, several keys,
the brass handle of a door, a copper extinguisher, a sailor's knife, a
butcher's hook, an iron comb, with penny pieces and coins to the amount
of 3_s._ 4-1/2_d._; and besides these various articles, there
were several cowries, glass beads, such as are used for the purposes
of traffic by the natives of the Barbary Coast, whence the bird was
brought; and it never having had the opportunity of getting at such
articles while in a state of confinement, little doubt remains of their
having been swallowed by the bird while in its native country.

Another instance may be added of a full grown Ostrich, that was for some
time in the possession of the Consul of Tripoli: during the period of
the bird remaining at his house, a silver snuff box, of considerable
size and value, was missing, and many were the persons suspected of
having stolen it. The bird was after the lapse of a few months shipped
as a present on board a frigate, and died during the voyage. The captain
had it opened to ascertain if possible the cause of its death, when, in
the stomach were found nails, keys, pieces of iron and copper, part of
a lantern, and the identical snuffbox, although the chasing and sharp
edges were worn completely smooth by the action of the stomach.

J. WARWICK.

_Surrey Zoological Gardens._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE CONDOR.


A pair of condors has lately been received from South America, for the
Surrey Zoological Gardens. They are male and female, and are stated to
be by far the largest specimens ever brought to this country, the male
measuring nearly 14 feet across the wings, and in height upwards of
three feet. They were brought from Chili, where they are sometimes met
with at an elevation of 15,000 feet above the level of the sea. During
the removal of the birds from the vessel, the male dropped one of his
largest wing feathers, the quill of which measures an inch and a half
in circumference.

     *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *


_The King_.--(_From the Spectator_.)--Touching the business habits of
the King, we have been favoured with the following statement, by a
gentleman on whose honesty we can place perfect reliance, and who has
ample opportunities of correct knowledge:--The attention of our present
excellent Sovereign to public business is truly exemplary; and whilst he
exceeds in regularity and despatch the habits of his late father,--whose
conduct in this respect has seldom been properly appreciated,--his
diligence forms a striking contrast to the supineness exhibited in the
late reign, when days and weeks sometimes elapsed before the Royal
signature could be obtained.

