
The Tyrians, although not so early celebrated either in sacred or
profane history, had yet attained greater renown than their Sidonian
kinsmen. It is useless to conjecture at what period or under what
circumstances these eastern colonists had quitted the shores of the
Persian gulf, and fixed their seat on the narrow belt between the
mountains of Lebanon and the sea. Probably at first they were only
factories, established for connecting the trade between the eastern and
western world. If so, their origin must be sought among the natives
to the east of the Assyrians, as that race of industrious cultivators
possessed no shipping, and was hostile to commerce. The colonists
took root on this shore, became prosperous and wealthy, covered the
Mediterranean with their fleets, and its shores with their factories.
Tyre in the course of time became the dominant city, and under her
supremacy were founded the Phoenician colonies in Greece, Sicily,
Africa, and Spain. The wealth of her merchant princes had often tempted
the cupidity of the despots of Asia. Salmanassar, the Assyrian conqueror
of Israel, directed his attacks against Tyre, and continued them for
five years, but was finally compelled to raise the siege. Nabuchadonosor
was more persevering, and succeeded in capturing the city, after a siege
that lasted thirteen years. The old town, situated on the continent was
never rebuilt; but a new Tyre rose from its ruins. This occupied the
area of a small island, described by Pliny as two miles and a half in
circumference. On this confined space a large population existed, and
remedied the want of extent by raising story upon story, on the plan
followed by the ancient inhabitants of Edinburgh. It was separated from
the main land by an armlet of the sea, about half a mile in breadth
and about eighteen feet deep. The city was encircled by walls and
fortifications of great strength and height, and scarcely pregnable
even if accessible.

_Family Library, No. 3._

       *       *       *       *       *


SIR WILLIAM DEVEREUX,

_A Portrait--by the Author of Pelham._


My uncle did as his ancestors had done before him; and, cheap as the
dignity had grown, went up to court to be knighted by Charles II. He was
so delighted with what he saw of the metropolis, that he foreswore all
intention of leaving it, took to Sedley and champagne, flirted with Nell
Gwynne, lost double the value of his brother's portion at one sitting to
the chivalrous Grammont, wrote a comedy corrected by Etherege, and took
a wife recommended by Rochester. The wife brought him a child six months
after marriage, and the infant was born on the same day the comedy was
acted. Luckily for the honour of the house, my uncle shared the fate of
Plimneus, king of Sicyon, and all the offspring he ever had (that is to
say, the child and the play,) "died as soon as they were born." My uncle
was now only at a loss to know what to do with his wife, that remaining
treasure, whose readiness to oblige him had been so miraculously
evinced. She saved him the trouble of long cogitation,--an exercise
of intellect to which he was never too ardently inclined. There was
a gentleman of the court celebrated for his sedateness and solemnity;
my aunt was piqued into emulating Orpheus, and six weeks after her
confinement she put this rock into motion,--they eloped. Poor gentleman!
it must have been a severe trial of patience to a man never known before
to transgress the very slowest of all possible walks, to have had two
events of the most rapid nature happen to him in the same week. Scarcely
had he recovered the shock of being ran away with by my aunt, before,
terminating for ever his vagrancies, he was ran through by my uncle.
The wits made an epigram upon the event; and my uncle, who was as bold
as a lion at the point of a sword, was, to speak frankly, terribly
disconcerted by the point of a jest. He retired to the country in a
fit of disgust and gout. Here his own _bon naturel_ rose from the
layers of art which had long oppressed it, and he solaced himself by
righteously governing domains worthy of a prince, for the mortifications
he had experienced in the dishonourable career of a courtier. Hitherto I
have spoken somewhat slightingly of my uncle; and in his dissipation he
deserved it, for he was both too honest and too simple to shine in that
galaxy of prostitute genius of which Charles II. was the centre. But in
retirement he was no longer the same person, and I do not think that
the elements of human nature could have furnished forth a more amiable
character than Sir William Devereux, presiding at Christmas over the
merriment of his great hall. Good old man! his very defects were what we
loved best in him; vanity was so mingled with good nature that it became
graceful, and we reverenced one the most, while we most smiled at the
other. One peculiarity had he, which the age he had lived in, and his
domestic history, rendered natural enough, viz. an exceeding distaste
to the matrimonial state: early marriages were misery; imprudent
marriages idiotism; and marriage at the best he was wont to say, with
a kindling eye and a heightened colour, marriage at the best--was the
devil. Yet it must not be supposed that Sir William Devereux was an
ungallant man. On the contrary, never did the _beau sexe_ have a
humbler or more devoted servant. As nothing in his estimation was less
becoming to a wise man than matrimony, so nothing was more ornamental
than flirtation. He had the old man's weakness, garrulity, and he told
the wittiest stories in the world, without omitting any thing in them
but the point. This omission did not arise from the want either of
memory or of humour, but solely from a deficiency in the malice natural
to all jesters. He could not persuade his lips to repeat a sarcasm
hurting even the dead or the ungrateful; and when he came to the drop
of gall which should have given zest to the story, the milk of human
kindness broke its barrier despite himself, and washed it away. He was a
fine wreck, a little prematurely broken by dissipation, but not perhaps
the less interesting on that account; tall, and somewhat of the jovial
old English girth, with a face where good nature and good living mingled
their smiles and glow. He wore the garb of twenty years back, and was
curiously particular in the choice of his silk stockings. He was not a
little vain of his leg, and a compliment on that score was always sure
of a gracious reception.

       *       *       *       *       *


The Gatherer.


  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Sundon was one of the commissioners of the treasury in the reign of
George II. The celebrated Bob Doddington was a colleague of the noble
lord, and was always complaining of his slowness of comprehension.
One day that lord Sundon laughed at something which Doddington had said,
Winnington, another member of the board, said to him, in a whisper,
"You are very ungrateful: you see lord Sundon takes your joke." "No,
no," replied Doddington, "he is laughing now at what I said last board
day."--_Monthly Mag_.

       *       *       *       *       *


STINGING MISTAKE.


A certain person, who shall be nameless, filled the situation of
Plumian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford. He was a great stickler
for decorum, and all due respect to his office. One day he received a
letter by the post, directed to himself, as the _Plumbian_ Professor.
He shook with indignation. What an insult! _Plumbian_ professor!
Leaden professor! Was it meant to insinuate that there was any thing
of a leaden quality in his lectures or writings! While thus irate, a
friend of the professor happened to drop in. He showed him the letter,
and expatiated upon the indignity of the superscription. His friend
endeavoured to convince him that it must be merely a slip of the pen.
In vain. The professor would not be pacified. "Well," said his friend,
"at any rate, it is evident the _b_ has stung you."--_Ibid_.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Irish barrister had the failing of Goldsmith, in an eminent degree:
that of believing he could do every thing better than any other person.
This propensity exhibited itself ludicrously enough on one occasion,
when a violent influenza prevailed in Dublin. A friend who happened to
meet him, mentioned a particular acquaintance, and observed that he had
had the influenza very bad. "Bad!" exclaimed the other, "I don't know
how bad _he_ has had it, but I am sure I have had it quite as bad
as he, or any one else."--"Not quite, I think," replied his friend, "for
poor Mr. Gillicuddy is dead."--"Well," rejoined our tenacious optimist,
"and what of that? _I_ could have died too, if I had liked
it."--_Ibid_.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

THE SUPPLEMENT, containing Title, Preface, and Index to Vol. xiii. and
a fine Steel-plate

PORTRAIT OF SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

With a copious Memoir of his interesting Life and Discoveries, Notices
of his Literary Works, &c. is now Publishing.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIMBIRD'S EDITION OF THE
_Following Novels is already Published_:

                                         s.    d.
  Mackenzie's Man of Feeling             0     6
  Paul and Virginia                      0     6
  The Castle of Otranto                  0     6
  Almoran and Hamet                      0     6
  Elizabeth, or the Exiles of Siberia    0     6
  The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne     0     6
  Rasselas                               0     8
  The Old English Baron                  0     8
  Nature and Art                         0     8
  Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield         0    10
  Sicilian Romance                       1     0
  The Man of the World                   1     0
  A Simple Story                         1     4
  Joseph Andrews                         1     6
  Humphry Clinker                        1     8
  The Romance of the Forest              1     8
  The Italian                            2     0
  Zeluco, by Dr. Moore                   2     6
  Edward, by Dr. Moore                   2     6
  Roderick Random                        2     6
  The Mysteries of Udolpho               3     6
  Peregrine Pickle                       4     6