"I shall commit a murder in a minute," he growled but, knowing what he
had suffered, I took no notice of the threat.

"Listen," I said; "all the habitable houses in England are occupied
and it will be years before the new ones are built. The painting of
"TO LET" boards has become a lost art. You are wasting your time in
looking for an _empty_ dwelling. Take my advice. Choose one that is
occupied, any one you fancy, and empty it."

At this point he interpolated an offensive expression with which I was
not familiar before I joined the army, but I overlooked that also.

"You think it is impossible, but you are wrong," I told him. "This
scheme is bound to succeed. All you have to do is to haunt the house.
You do not eject the tenant yourself. You conjure up a ghost to do it
for you."

"The devil!"

"No--not necessarily. An ordinary ghost will do."

"But, my dear good fool, how in Hades or out of it can I produce a
ghost?"

"Easily. By _suggestion_. That is the secret. This is an age of
suggestion. Doctors are curing patients by suggestion. Politicians
hypnotise the public by suggestion. And you can frighten the present
occupants out of your chosen home by suggestion. No real ghost
is required. Having selected the house you pay a call and lay
ground-bait, so to speak. You tell the tenant you are interested in
the place because you happen to know that at one time it was haunted.
You relate a gruesome tale of some mysterious tragedy that you say has
occurred there, and generally make your victim's flesh creep.

"He or she, a woman for choice, will probably laugh at first. Never
mind. Allow a few days for the idea to sink in, and then call again.
It is a hundred to one that you will hear that strange manifestations
have been observed. After that it will be plain sailing. You will
continue to call, always supplying fresh suggestion, until at last,
thoroughly unnerved, the tenant will bolt, probably taking refuge in
a hotel. That will be your chance. Snatch the place up at once, and
there you are."

For the first time since he was demobilised, Higgins smiled.

"By Heavens!" he said, "I'll try it. There's a little place at Croydon
which would be a perfect billet. I will pay my first visit at once."

He sauntered away, proclaiming in song the satisfactory condition of
rose-culture in Picardy.

Yesterday he came back.

His face was grim. There was a light in his eye which I did not like.
He made no mention of roses blooming in Picardy or anywhere else.

"How is the scheme working?" I asked. "Have you called on the Croydon
gentleman?"

"I have," he answered; "and when I had laid the blessed ground-bait,
as you call it, he told me he always did think there was a ghost about
the place, and he was delighted to have his theory confirmed. He wants
more details now. He invites me to furnish evidence. What for, you
ask? Well, you see, he happens to be an active member of the Society
for Psychical Research."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Polite Stranger (during the busy hour on the
Underground_). "WON'T YOU SHARE MY HANDLE, MADAM?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

SILLY SEASONING.

The strange case of the halibut and the cormorant, recently reported
in the daily Press, has brought us a budget of interesting letters,
from which we select the following as agreeable evidence of the return
of normal conditions in the fish-story-telling industry:--

_Gullane, N.B._

    Dear Sir,--One of the most striking results of the War has been
    its effect on the mentality of birds and animals and even fishes.
    The papers have lately contained accounts of a halibut which
    swallowed a cormorant and survived the exploit only to fall a
    victim to the wiles of a North Sea fisherman. As the cormorant
    is generally regarded to be the _dernier cri_ in voracity, the
    incident illustrates the old saying of the biter bit. As a rule
    birds of prey have the upper hand in their contests with the
    finny denizens of the deep. But the triumph of the halibut is not
    altogether unprecedented. I remember, when I was cruising in the
    China Seas in the year 1854, witnessing a combat between a dolphin
    and a Bombay duck, in which the latter came off second-best. And
    some thirty years later, during a yachting excursion off the
    Scilly Isles, I saw an even more remarkable duel between a
    porbeagle--as the Cornish people call the mackerel-shark--and a
    pipit, in which, strange to relate, the bird came off victorious.

    Believe me to be, Sir,

    Yours truthfully,

    CONSTANTINE PHIBSON.


    _Tara, Diddlebury_.

    DEAR SIR,--When I was an undergraduate at Cambridge in the
    'sixties a "Limerick" was current which began as follows:--

      "There was an adventurous sole
      Which swallowed an albatross whole."

    Unfortunately I cannot remember the conclusion of the stanza, nor
    am I able to state whether it was founded on fact or was merely an
    ebullition of lyrical fancy. In the latter case the lines are
    a striking instance of the prophetic power of minstrelsy, and
    justify the use of the word "_vates_," or seer, as applied to
    poets by the ancient Romans.

    I have the honour to be, Sir,

    Yours faithfully,

    SEPTIMUS BOWLONG.


    _Rougemont Villa, Crookhaven._

    DEAR SIR,--The halibut-cormorant episode has attracted undue
    attention, since many similar but far more extraordinary incidents
    have occurred during the War, but have passed unrecorded owing
    to the claims of Bellona. I will confine myself to one which was
    witnessed by my daughter Anna in course of bathing at Sheringham
    in August, 1917. While swimming underwater she collided with a
    middle-sized sea-serpent, which was evidently in difficulties and
    made its way to the beach, where it expired. The post-mortem,
    which was conducted by Professor Darcy Johnson, F.R.S., revealed
    that the serpent had been choked by a gigantic gooseberry, which
    had formed part of the cargo of a Greenland tramp torpedoed by an
    enemy submarine. The serpent was actually being stuffed when a
    bomb dropped by a Zeppelin blew it into infinitesimal smithereens,
    to the profound disappointment of the Professor and my daughter
    Anna, who has never been quite the same woman since. Permit me to
    subscribe myself

    Yours faithfully,

    ALEXANDER NIAS.


    _Steep Hill, Cramlington._

    DEAR SIR,--There is nothing surprising in the story of a halibut
    devouring a cormorant. As you will see from consulting _Murray_,
    halibut means "holy-butt" (or flat-fish), and holy fishes are
    possessed of magical powers. When I lived on the coast of Florida
    I had a tame tarpon, which could swallow anything--croquet balls,
    door scrapers--and once ate an entire cottage pianoforte in
    half-an-hour. Here I may add that in my travels in Turkestan I was
    attacked by a boa-constrictor, and, though I escaped with my life,
    it proceeded to swallow the Bactrian camel on which I was riding.
    On the following day, however, when the boa was still in a
    comatose condition, I killed it with a boomerang, rescued the
    camel and continued my journey without further mishap.

    I am, Sir, Yours veraciously,

    ANDREW MERRIMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Lady Driver (just joined)_. "OH, SERGEANT, I HOPE I
SHAN'T UPSET MY FIRST PASSENGER!"

_Sergeant (A.S.C., M.T.)._ "PASSENGER, MISS! DON'T LET THAT WORRY YOU.
PLENTY MORE PASSENGERS!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SIX-HOUR DAY.

AN ANTICIPATION.

