Brighton will be as good a residence as any other; there's nobody
there knows much of either of _you_; and the place has got so big,
that you may be as snug as you please; a large town and a large party,
are the best possible shelters for love matters. Ay, go to
Brighton--the prawns for breakfast, the Wheatears (as the Cockneys
delicately call them, without knowing what they are talking about) for
dinner, and the lobsters for supper, with a cigar, and a little
ginnums and water, whiffing the wind, and sniffing the briny out of
one of the bow-window balconies--that's it--Brighton's the place,
against the world.


_Murder_.

A gentleman criminal is too rich a treat to be overlooked; and a
murder in good society forms a tale of middling life, much too
interesting to be passed over in a hurry.


_A Love Errand_.

He went to look for something which he had not left there, and whither
she followed him, to assist in a pursuit which she knew went for
nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *


MOORE'S LIFE OF BYRON, VOL. II.

The publication of this work, _bonâ fide_, has not yet taken place;
but we are enabled by the aid of the _Athenæum_ to quote a page.

The volume commences with the following powerful review of Lord
Byron's mind and fortune at the time he left England:--

    "The circumstances under which Lord Byron now took leave of
    England were such as, in the case of any ordinary person,
    could not be considered otherwise than disastrous and
    humiliating. He had, in the course of one short year, gone
    through every variety of domestic misery;--had seen his hearth
    ten times profaned by the visitations of the law, and been
    only saved from a prison by the privileges of his rank. He had
    alienated (if, indeed, they had ever been his) the affections
    of his wife; and now, rejected by her, and condemned by the
    world, was betaking himself to an exile which had not even the
    dignity of appearing voluntary, as the excommunicating voice
    of society seemed to leave him no other resource. Had he been
    of that class of unfeeling and self-satisfied natures from
    whose hard surface the reproaches of others fall pointless, he
    might have found in insensibility a sure refuge against
    reproach; but, on the contrary, the same sensitiveness that
    kept him so awake to the applauses of mankind rendered him, in
    a still more intense degree, alive to their censure. Even the
    strange, perverse pleasures which he felt in painting himself
    unamiably to the world did not prevent him from being both
    startled and pained when the world took him at his word; and,
    like a child in a mask before a looking-glass, the dark
    semblance which he had half in sport, put on, when reflected
    back upon him from the mirror of public opinion, shocked even
    himself.

    "Thus surrounded by vexations, and thus deeply feeling them,
    it is not too much to say, that any other spirit but his own
    would have sunk under the struggle, and lost, perhaps,
    irrecoverably, that level of self-esteem which alone affords a
    stand against the shocks of fortune. But in him,--furnished as
    his mind was with reserves of strength, waiting to be called
    out,--the very intensity of the pressure brought relief by the
    proportionate reaction which it produced. Had his
    transgressions and frailties been visited with no more than
    their due portion of punishment, there can be little doubt
    that a very different result would have ensued. Not only would
    such an excitement have been insufficient to waken up the new
    energies still dormant in him, but that consciousness of his
    own errors, which was for ever livelily present in his mind,
    would, under such circumstances, have been left, undisturbed
    by any unjust provocation, to work its usual softening and,
    perhaps, humbling influences on his spirit. But,--luckily, as
    it proved, for the further triumphs of his genius,--no such
    moderation was exercised. The storm of invective raised around
    him, so utterly out of proportion with his offences, and the
    base calumnies that were everywhere heaped upon his name, left
    to his wounded pride no other resource than in the same
    summoning up of strength, the same instinct of resistance to
    injustice, which had first forced out the energies of his
    youthful genius, and was now destined to give him a still
    bolder and loftier range of its powers.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "But the greatest of his trials, as well as triumphs, was yet
    to come. The last stage of this painful, though glorious,
    course, in which fresh power was, at every step, wrung from
    out of his soul, was that at which we are now arrived, his
    marriage and its results,--without which, dear as was the
    price paid by him in peace and character, his career would
    have been incomplete, and the world still left in ignorance of
    the full compass of his genius. It is indeed worthy of remark,
    that it was not till his domestic circumstances began to
    darken around him that his fancy, which had long been idle,
    again arose upon the wing,--both the Siege of Corinth and
    Parisina having been produced but a short time before the
    separation. How conscious he was, too, that the turmoil which
    followed was the true element of his restless spirit may be
    collected from several passages of his letters, at that
    period, in one of which he even mentions that his health had
    become all the better for the conflict:--'It is odd,' he says,
    'but agitation or contest of any kind gives a rebound to my
    spirits, and sets me up for the time.'

    "This buoyancy it was--this irrepressible spring of
    mind,--that now enabled him to bear up not only against the
    assaults of others, but what was still more difficult, against
    his own thoughts and feelings. The muster of all his mental
    resources to which, in self-defence, he had been driven, but
    opened to him the yet undreamed extent and capacity of his
    powers, and inspired him with a proud confidence, that he
    should yet shine down these calumnious mists, convert censure
    to wonder, and compel even those who could not approve to
    admire.

    "The route which he now took, through Flanders and by the
    Rhine, is best traced in his own matchless verses, which leave
    a portion of their glory on all that they touch, and lend to
    scenes, already clothed with immortality by nature and by
    history, the no less durable associations of undying song."

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
                                   SHAKSPEARE.


SELDEN,


Towards the close of his life, was so thoroughly convinced of the
superior value of the Holy Scriptures, as to declare that the 11th,
12th, 13th, and 14th verses of the second chapter of St. Paul's
Epistle to Titus, afforded him more solid satisfaction than all he had
ever read.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *


FULL-BOTTOMED WIGS.


The full-bottomed wigs which unfortunately envelope and cloud some of
the most distinguished portraits of former days, were in fashion
during the reigns of our William and Mary. Lord Bolingbroke was one of
the first that tied them up, with which the queen was much offended,
and said to a by-stander, "he would soon come to court in his
night-cap." Soon after, tie wigs, instead of being an undress, became
the high court dress.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *


A WINDOW THE CAUSE OF A WAR.


When the Palace of Trianon was building for Louis XIV. at the end of
Versailles' Park, that monarch went to inspect it, accompanied by
Louvois, secretary of war, and superintendent of the building. Whilst
walking arm in arm with him, he remarked that one of the windows was
out of shape, and smaller than the rest--this Louvois denied, and
asserted that he could not perceive the least difference. Louis XIV.
having had it measured, and finding that he had judged rightly,
treated Louvois in a contumelious manner before his whole court. This
conduct so incensed the minister, that when he arrived home he was
heard to say, that he would find better employment for a monarch than
that of insulting his favourites: he was as good as his word, for by
his insolence and haughtiness he insulted the other powers, and
occasioned the bloody war of 1688.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1306, Bruce having taken shelter in the Isle of Arran, sent a
trusty person into Carrick, to learn how his vassals stood affected to
his cause; with instructions, that, if he found them disposed to
assist him he should make a signal at a time appointed, by lighting a
fire on an eminence near the Castle of Turnbury. The messenger found
the English in possession of Carrick, the people dispirited, and none
ready to take arms; he therefore did not make the signal. But a fire
being made about noon on the appointed spot, (possibly by accident)
both Bruce and the messenger saw it. The former with his associates
put to sea to join his supposed party; the latter to prevent his
coming. They met before Bruce reached the shore, when the messenger
acquainted Bruce with the unpromising state of his affairs, and
advised him to go back; but he obeying the dictates of despair and
valour, resolved to persevere; and attacking the English, carelessly
cantoned in the neighbourhood of Turnbury, put a number of them to the
sword, and pillaged their quarters. Percy, from the castle, heard the
uproar, yet did not sally forth against them, not knowing their
strength. Bruce with his followers not exceeding three hundred in
number, remained for some days near Turnbury; but succours having
arrived from the neighbouring garrisons, he was obliged to seek safety
in the mountainous parts of Carrick.

C.D.

       *       *       *       *       *


"WILLIE WASTLE."


When Oliver Cromwell was at Haddington, he sent a summons to the
governor of Hume Castle, ordering him to surrender. The governor
answered,

  "That he, Willie Wastle, stood firm in his castle,
  That all the dogs of his town should not drive Willie Wastle down."

This anecdote gave rise to the amusement of Willie Wastle among
children.

       *       *       *       *       *


When the Irish Union was effected in 1801, the Ex-Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Sir John Parnell, was the reigning _toast_. Being one
evening in a convivial party, he jocularly said that by the Union he
had lost his _bread and butter_. "Ah, my dear sir," replied a friend,
"never mind, for it is amply made up to you in _toasts_."

       *       *       *       *       *


CURIOUS LEGACY.


_By Samuel Hawkins, Esq. to White Chapel Parish, 1804, bequeathing
£300. for performing Divine Service for ever, in the said parish
church_.

Two guineas to be paid to Curate or Rector, for preaching a sermon on
New Year's Day, from a text mentioned in his will. To Parish Clerk
10s. 6d. to sing 100th Psalm, old version, same day. To organist 10s.
6d. for playing tune to same. To Sexton 10s. 6d. if he attend the
same; and to master and mistress of the free-school, each 10s. 6d. for
attending the charity children at the same time and place; and to the
Trustees of the school three guineas for refreshments, and to supply
as many quartern loaves to be distributed to such poor as shall attend
divine service on that day. The overplus, if any, to be given in bread
to the poor of the parish that the trustees may consider proper
objects of relief.

JAC-CO.

       *       *       *       *       *


WIT AND JOKES.


Selden says, "Nature must be the ground work of wit and art, otherwise
whatever is done will prove but Jack-pudding's work.

"Wit must grow like fingers; if it be taken from others, 'tis like
plums stuck upon black thorns; they are there for awhile, but they
come to nothing.

"Women ought not to know their own wit, because they will be showing
it, and so spoil it; like a child that will constantly be showing its
fine new coat, till at length it all bedaubs it with its pah hands.

"Fine wits destroy themselves with their own plots in meddling with
great affairs of state. They commonly do as the ape, that saw the
gunner put bullets in the cannon, and was pleased with it, and he
would be doing so too; at last he puts himself into the piece, and so
both ape and bullet were shot away together."

"The jokes, bon-mots, the little adventures, which may do very well
(says Chesterfield) in one company will seem flat and tedious when
related in another--they are often ill-timed, and prefaced thus: 'I
will tell you an excellent thing.' This raises expectations, which
when absolutely disappointed, make the relator of this excellent thing
look, very deservedly, like a fool."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *


FAT FOLKS.


Prince Harry and Falstaff, in Shakspeare, have carried the ridicule
upon fat and lean as far as it will go. Falstaff is humorously called
_Wool-Sack_, _Bed Presser_, and _Hill of Flesh_; Harry, a
_Starveling_, an _Eel's-skin_, a _Sheath_, a _Bow-case_, and a _Tuck_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Printed and published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic;
and by all Newsmen and Booksellers_.