The vast number of these little "messengers of thought" which are
required in a single modern daily newspaper is little known to
newspaper readers. Set in the manner of ordinary reading, a column of
the New York _Tribune_ contains 12,200 pieces, counting head lines,
leads, and so on; while, if set solidly in its medium-sized type,
there are 18,800 pieces in one column, or about 113,000 in a page, or
about 1,354,000 in one of its ordinary 12-page issues. A 32-page
Sunday issue of the New York _Herald_ contains nearly, if not quite,
2,500,000 distinct types and other pieces of metal, each of which must
be separately handled between thumb and finger twice--once put into
the case and once taken out of it--each issue of the paper. No one
inexperienced in this delicate work has the slightest conception of
the intensity of attention, fixity of eye, deftness of touch,
readiness of intelligence, exhaustion of vitality, and destruction of
brain and nerve which enters into the daily newspaper from
type-setters alone.

Each type is marked upon one side by slight nicks, by sight and touch
of which the compositor is guided in rapidly placing them right side
up in the line. They are taken, one by one, between thumb and
forefinger, while the mind not only spells out each word, but is
always carrying phrases and whole sentences ahead of the fingers, and
each letter, syllable and word is set in its order in lines in the
composing stick, each line being spaced out in the stick so as to
exactly fit the column width, this process being repeated until the
stick is full. Then the stickful is emptied upon a galley. Then, when
the page or the paper is "up," as the printers phrase it, the galleys
are collected, and the foreman makes up the pages, article by article,
as they come to us in the printed paper--the preliminary processes of
printing proofs from the galleys, reading them by the proof readers,
who mark the errors, and making the corrections by the compositors
(each one correcting his own work), having been quietly and swiftly
going on all the while. The page is made up on a portable slab of
iron, upon which it is sent to the stereotyping room. There wet
stereotyping paper, several sheets in thickness, is laid over the
page, and this almost pulpy paper is rapidly and dexterously beaten
evenly all over with stiff hair brushes until the soft paper is
pressed down into all the interstices between the type; then this is
covered with blankets and the whole is placed upon a steam chest,
where it is subjected to heat and pressure until the wet paper becomes
perfectly dry. Then, this dried and hardened paper, called a matrix,
is placed in a circular mould, and melted stereotype metal is poured
in and cooled, resulting in the circular plate, which is rapidly
carried to the press room, clamped upon its cylinder, and when all the
cylinders are filled, page by page in proper sequence, the pressman
gives the signal, the burr and whirr begin, and men and scarcely less
sentient machines enter upon their swift race for the early trains. As
a matter of general interest it may be remarked that this whole
process of stereotyping a page, from the time the type leaves the
composing room until the plate is clamped upon the press, averages
fifteen minutes, and that cases are upon record when the complex task
has been accomplished in eleven minutes.

The paper is brought from the mill tightly rolled upon wooden or iron
cores. Some presses take paper the narrow way of the paper, rolls for
which average between 600 and 700 pounds. Others work upon paper of
double the width of two pages, that is, four pages wide, and then the
rolls are sometimes as wide as six feet, and have an average weight of
1,350 pounds. Each roll from which the New York _Tribune_ is printed
contains an unbroken sheet 23,000 feet (4-1/3 miles) long. A few hours
before the paper is to be printed, an iron shaft having journal ends
is passed through the core, the roll is placed in a frame where it may
revolve, the end of the sheet is grasped by steel fingers and the roll
is unwound at a speed of from 13 to 15 miles an hour, while a fan-like
spray of water plays evenly across its width, so that the entire sheet
is unrolled, dampened, for the better taking of the impression to be
made upon it, and firmly rewound, all in twenty minutes. Each of these
rolls will make about 7,600 copies of the _Tribune_.

When all is ready, paper and stereotyped pages in place, and all
adjustments carefully attended to, the almost thinking machine starts
at the pressman's touch, and with well nigh incredible speed prints,
places sheet within sheet, pastes the parts together, cuts, folds and
counts out the completed papers with an accuracy and constancy beyond
the power of human eye and hand.

The printing press has held its own in the rapid advance of that
wonderful evolution which, within the last half century, in every
phase of thought and in every movement of material forces placed under
the dominion of men, has almost made one of our years the equivalent
of one of the old centuries. Within average recollection the single
cylinder printing machine, run by hand or steam, and able under best
conditions to print one side of a thousand sheets in one hour, was the
marvel of mankind. In 1850, one such, that we started in an eastern
Ohio town, drew such crowds of wondering on-lookers that we were
obliged to bar the open doorway to keep them at a distance which would
allow the astonishing thing to work at all.

To-day, in the United States alone, five millions of dollars are
invested in the building of printing presses, many of which, by
slightest violence to figure of speech, do think and speak.
Inspiration was not wholly a thing of long-gone ages, for if ever men
received into brain and worked out through hand the divine touch, then
were Hoe, and Scott, and Campbell taught of God.

Under existing conditions newspapers of any importance, in the smaller
cities, use one and sometimes two presses, capable of producing from
7,000 to 9,000 complete eight page papers each hour, each machine
costing from $10,000 to $15,000. Papers of the second class in the
large cities use treble or quadruple this press capacity, while the
great papers, in the four or five leading cities, have machinery
plants of from four to ten presses of greatest capacity, costing from
$32,000 to $50,000 each, and able to produce papers of the different
numbers of pages required, at a speed of from 24,000 to 90,000 four
page sheets, or of from 24,000 to 48,000 eight, ten, or twelve page
sheets per hour, each paper complete as you receive it at your
breakfast table--printed, pasted, cut and folded, and the entire
product for the day accurately counted in lots of tens, fifties,
hundreds or thousands, as may be required for instantaneous delivery,
while, as if to illustrate and emphasize the ever upward trend of
public demand for the day's news, quick and inclusive, Hoe & Co. are
now building machines capable of producing in all completeness 150,000
four page papers each hour.

All this tremendous combination of brain, nerve, muscle, material,
machinery and capital depends for its movement and remuneration upon
but two sources of income--circulation and advertisements--the unit
measurements of which are infinitesimal--for the most part represented
by wholesale prices; from one-half a cent to two cents per copy for
the daily newspaper, and in like proportion for the weeklies and
monthlies; and by from one-tenth of a cent to one cent per line per
thousand of circulation for advertising space. Verily, in a certain
and large sense, the vast publishing interests rest upon drops of
water and grains of sand. Under right conditions no kind of business
or property is more valuable, and yet no basis of values is more
intangible. Nothing in all trade or commerce is so difficult to
establish or more environed by competitions, and yet, once
established, almost nothing save interior dry rot can pull it down. It
depends upon the judgment and favor of the million, yet instances are
few where any external force has seriously and permanently impaired
it.

About two hundred years have gone since the publication of the first
number of the first American newspaper. It was a monthly, called
_Publick Occurrences, both Foreign and Domestic_, first printed
September 25, 1690, by Richard Pierce, and founded by Benjamin Harris.
At that time public favor did seem to control newspaper interests, for
that first paper aroused antagonism, and it was almost immediately
suppressed by the authorities. Only one copy of it is now in
existence, and that is in London. The first newspaper to live, in this
country, was the Boston _News Letter_, first issued in 1704 and
continued until 1776. New York's first newspaper, the New York
_Gazette_, appeared October 16, 1725. At the outbreak of the
revolution there were 37 newspapers, and in 1800 there were 200, of
which several were dailies. In 1890 there were 17,760, of which there
were 13,164 weeklies, 2,191 monthlies, 1,626 dailies, 280
semi-monthlies, 217 semi-weeklies, 126 quarterlies, 82 bi-weeklies, 38
bi-monthlies, and 36 tri-weeklies.

The circulations belong largely to the weeklies, monthlies and
dailies, the weeklies having 23,228,750, the monthlies 9,245,750, the
dailies 6,653,250, leaving only 2,400,000 for all the others.

The largest definitely ascertainable daily average circulation for one
year, in this country, has been 222,745. Only one other daily paper in
the world has had more--_Le Petit Journal_, in Paris, which really, as
we understand it, is not a newspaper, but which regularly prints and
sells for one sou more than 750,000 copies. The largest American
weekly is the _Youth's Companion,_ Boston, 461,470. The largest
monthly is the _Ladies' Home Journal_, Philadelphia, 542,000. The
largest among the better known magazines is the _Century_, 200,000. Of
the daily papers which directly interest us--those of the city of New
York--the actual or approximate daily averages of the morning papers
are given by "Dauchy's Newspaper Catalogue" for 1891, as follows:
_Tribune_, daily, 80,000; Sunday, 85,000. _Times_, daily, 40,000;
Sunday, 55,000. _Herald_, daily, 100,000; Sunday, 120,000. _Morning
Journal_, 200,000. _Press_, daily, 85,000; Sunday, 45,000. _Sun_,
daily, 90,000; Sunday, 120,000. _World_, daily, 182,000; Sunday,
275,000. Of the afternoon papers, _Commercial Advertiser_, 15,000;
_Evening Post_, 18,000; _Telegram_, 25,000; _Graphic_ (not the old,
but a new one), 10,000; _Mail and Express_, 40,000; _News_, 173,000;
_Evening Sun_, 50,000; _Evening World_, 168,000. The entire
circulation of New York dailies, including with those named others of
minor importance, and the German, French, Italian, Bohemian, Hebrew
and Spanish daily newspapers, is 1,540,200 copies.

Obviously, there is and must be ceaseless, incisive and merciless
competition in securing and holding circulations, as well as in the
outward statements made of individual circulations to those who
purchase advertising space. In this, as in all other forms of
enterprise, there are honest, clean-cut and business-like methods, and
there are the methods of the time-server, the trickster and the liar.

The vastly greater number of publications secure and hold their
clientage by making the best possible goods, pushing them upon public
patronage by aggressive and business-like means, and selling at the
lowest price consistent with excellence of product and fairness alike
to producer and consumer. But of the baser sort there are always
enough to make rugged paths for those who walk uprightly, and to
contribute to instability of values on the one hand, and on the other
to flooding the country with publications which the home and the world
would be better without. Every great city has more of the rightly made
and rightly sold papers than of the other sort, and the business man,
the working man, the professional man, the family, no matter of what
taste, or political faith, or economic bias, or social status, or
financial plenty or paucity, can have the daily visits of newspapers
which are able, brilliant, comprehensive, clean and honest. But all
the time, these men and families will have pressed upon their
attention and patronage, by every device and artifice of the energetic
and more or less unscrupulous publisher, other papers equally able and
brilliant and comprehensive, but bringing also their burden of
needless sensationalism and mendacity, undue expansion of all manner
of scandal, amplification of every detail and kind of crime, and every
phase of covert innuendo or open attack upon official doing and
private character--the whole infernal mass procured, and stimulated
and broadcast among the people by the "business end of it," with the
one and only intent of securing and holding circulation.

Take a representative and pertinent example. Eight years ago there
were in New York ten or eleven standard newspapers, as ably and
inclusively edited and as energetically and successfully conducted,
business-wise, as they are now. Even at their worst they were decently
mindful of life's proprieties and moralities and they throve by
legitimate sale of the most and best news and the best possible
elucidation and discussion thereof. The father could bring the paper
of his choice to his breakfast table with no fear that his own moral
sense and self-respect might be outraged, or that the face of his wife
might be crimsoned and the minds of his children befouled. But there
came from out of the West new men and new forces, quick to see the
larger opportunity opened in the very center of five millions of
people, and almost in a night came the metamorphosis of the old World
into the new. It was deftly given out that existing conditions were
inadequate to the better deserts of the Knickerbocker, the Jersey-man,
and the Yankee, and that a new purveyor of more highly seasoned news
and a more doughty champion of their rights and interests was hither
from the land of life and movement--at two cents per copy. There was a
panic in New York newspaper counting rooms, and prices tumbled in two
days from the three and four cents of fair profit to the two and three
cents of bare cost or less. The new factors in demoralization cared
nothing for competition in prices or legitimate goods, for they had
other ideas of coddling the dear people. Ready to their purpose lay
disintegrated Liberty, waiting for a rock upon which to plant her feet
and raise her torch, and the new combination between the world, the
flesh and the devil, waiting and ready for access to the pockets of
the public, was only too ready to set up Liberty and itself at one
stroke, if only the joint operation could be done without expense to
itself. The people said, "What wonderful enterprise!" "What a generous
spirit!" The combination, with tongue in cheek and finger laid
alongside nose, said to itself as it saw its circulation spring in one
bound from five figures into six, "Verily we've got there! for these
on the Hudson are greater gudgeons than are they on the Mississippi."
From then until now, with an outward semblance and constant pretense
of serving the people; with blare of trumpet and rattle of drum; with
finding Stanley, who never had been lost; with scurrying peripatetic
petticoats around the globe; with all manner of unprofessional and
illegitimate devices; with so-called "contests" and with all manner of
"schemes" without limit in number, kind, or degree; with every
cunningly devised form of appeal to curiosity and cupidity--from then
until now that combination has been struggling to hold and has held an
audience of the undiscriminating and the unthinking. But, further,
and worse, a short-sighted instinct of self-preservation has led
other papers to follow somewhat at a distance in this demoralizing
race. None of them has gone to such lengths, but the tendency to
literary, mental and moral dissipation induced by a hitherto unknown
form of competition has swerved and largely recast the methods of
every New York daily save only the _Tribune_, _Times_, _Commercial
Advertiser_, and _Evening Post,_ while the converse side of securing
business clientage is illustrated in a way that would be amusing if it
were not pathetic, by that abnormal and fantastic cross between news
and pietetics which mails and expresses itself to the truly good.
These are forms of competition which the business end of legitimately
conducted newspapers is compelled to meet. In a certain way these
methods do succeed, but how, and how long and how much shall they
succeed except by unsettling the mental and moral poise of the people,
and by setting a new and false pace for publishers everywhere whose
thoughts take less account of means than of ends? Which shall we hold
in higher esteem and in our business patronage--Manton Marble and
Hurlbut, gentlemen, scholarly, wise leaders, conscientious teachers,
with barely living financial income; or their successors, parvenus,
superficial, meretricious, false guides, time-serving leaders, a
thousand dollars a day of clear profit, housed in the tower of Babel?

Considered in the large, the circulation side of the American
newspaper has many indefensible aspects. As "nothing succeeds like
success," or the appearance of success, the prestige of not a few
newspapers is ministered unto by rotund and deceptive representations
of circulation. Then, as few can live, much less profit, on their
circulations alone, it becomes greatly important to make the
advertiser see circulations through the large end of the telescope,
and so the fine art of telling truth without lying is a live and
perennial study in many counting rooms. Discussing the circulation
question not long ago with the head of a leading religious paper, he
told me that the number of copies he printed was a thing that he never
stated definitely, because the publishers of the other religious
newspapers lied so about their circulations that he would do himself
injustice if he were to tell the truth about his own. The secular
papers should set an example for their religious brethren, but they do
not, for from many of them there is lying--systematic, persistent, and
more or less colossal. Not long ago, within a few days of each other,
three men who were simultaneously employed on a certain paper told me
their _actual_ circulation, _confidentially_, too. One of them put it
at 85,000, the second at 110,000, and the third at 130,000, and each
of them lied, for their lying was so diversified and entertaining that
I felt a real interest in securing the truth, and so I took some
trouble to ask the pressman about it. He told me, _very_
confidentially, that it was 120,000--and he lied.

By this time my interest was so heightened that I told my personal
friend, the publisher, about the inartistic and incoherent mendacity
of his subordinates, whereupon he laughingly showed me his circulation
book, which clearly, and I have no doubt truthfully, exhibited an
average of 88,000. The wicked partner is nearly always ready to show
the actual record of the counting machines on the presses, and
"figures never lie" but the truth-telling machines which record actual
work of the impression cylinders make no mention of damaged copies
thrown aside, of sample copies, files, exchanges, copies kept against
possible future need, copies unsold, copies nominally sold but sooner
or later returned and finally sold to the junk shop, and all that sort
of thing. One prints a large extra issue on a certain day for some
business corporation which has its own purpose to serve by publication
of an article in its own interest, whereby many thousands of copies
are added to that day's normal output, and he makes the exceptional
number for that day serve as the exponent of his circulation until
good fortune brings him a similar and possibly larger order, and his
circulation is reported as "still increasing." Another struck a
"high-water mark" of "190,500" the day after Mr. Cleveland was
elected, and that has been the implied measure of circulation for the
last six years. Another, during a heated political campaign, or a
great financial crisis, or some other dominant factor in public
interest, makes a large and genuine temporary increase, but the
highest mark gained does enforced duty in the eyes of the marines
until another flood tide sweeps him to a greater transient height.
These are types of the competitions of the circulation liar. At this
very hour there are four daily newspapers each of which has the
largest circulation in the United States. Of the nearly 18,000
American publications only 103 furnish detailed, open, and entirely
trustworthy statements of circulation.

As to the general public this is no great matter, but to the vast
number of business men who buy the real or fancied publicity afforded
by newspaper advertising it is of exceeding importance. That the large
buyers of advertising space are not more and oftener swindled is
because they understand the circulation extravaganza and buy space
according to their understanding. The time is coming, and it should
come soon, when newspaper circulations shall be open to the same
inspection and publicity as is now the case with banks and insurance
companies, and when the circulation liar and swindler shall be
amenable to the same law and liable to the same penalty as stands
against and is visited upon any other perjurer and thief.

_(To be continued_.)

       *       *       *       *       *


HOW TO PREVENT HAY FEVER.

By ALEXANDER RIXA, M.D., New York.


In the May (1890) number of the _Therapeutic Gazette_ I furnished some
contribution to the "Treatment of Hay Fever." I reported therein a
favorable result in the treatment of this mysterious disease in the
experience of my last year's cases.

My experience of this year is far more gratifying, and worthy of
receiving a wide publicity.

I treated six cases in all, four of which have been habitual for years
to hay fever proper without complications, while the other two used to
have the disease aggravated with reflex asthma and bronchial catarrh.
I succeeded in preventing the outbreak of the disease in every
individual case. The treatment I applied was very simple, and
consisted of the following:

From the fact that I had known all my patients from previous years, I
ordered them to my office two weeks before the usual onset of the
disease. I advised them to irrigate the nose with a warm solution of
chloride of sodium four times a day--morning, noon, evening, and on
retiring; and, a few minutes after the cleansing of the parts, had the
nares thoroughly sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen and c.p. glycerin,
half and half. Those subject to a conjunctivitis I prescribed a two
per cent. solution of boric acid as a wash. At this period no internal
medication was given, but three days previous to the usual onset of
the disease I prescribed phenacetin and salol, five grains of each
three times a day.

On the respective expected days, to the great surprise of all the
members concerned successively, who have been in the habit of getting
the disease almost invariably at a certain date, no hay fever symptoms
appeared, though everyone had been the victim of the disease for a
great number of years, varying from five to nineteen years' standing.

It is self-understood that this treatment was kept up all through the
season, and, as no symptoms developed, the applications were reduced,
toward the termination, to twice and once a day. The internal
medication, however, was stopped after the expiration of the first
week, and all the patients could attend to their various respective
vocations, something they never have been able to do in previous
years.

In two cases, though no nasal symptoms developed, about two weeks
after the calculated onset, slight symptoms of asthma made their
appearance. However, I could easily suppress them at this time with
the aid of the hand atomizer and ozonizer, a very ingenious little
apparatus, of which I gave a thorough description in my last year's
article. I used the ozone inhalations every four hours, in connection
with the internal administration of the following prescription:

      Rx Iodide of ammonia, 8;
         Fl. ex. quebracho, 30;
         Fl. ex. grindelia robusta, 15;
         Tr. lobelia, 12;
         Tr. belladonna, 8;
         Syr. pruni, virg., q.s., ad 120.

  Sig.--Teaspoonful three or more times during twenty-four hours.

However, toward the end of the fourth week, especially in one case--a
stout, heavy-set gentleman--very grave asthmatic symptoms developed,
which compelled me to apply Chapman's spinal ice bag, as well as
resort to the internal administration of large doses of codeine during
the paroxysm, with the most beneficial result.

I gave also oxygen inhalations a fair trial in the two cases. I find
them to act very soothingly in the simple asthma, facilitating
respiration after a few minutes; but during the paroxysmal stage they
cannot be utilized, for the reason that respiration is short and
rapid, and does not permit of a control in the quantity of the gas to
be inhaled. Consequently, it is either of little use as a remedy; or,
if too much is taken, a disagreeable headache will be the consequence.

During the catarrhal stage, which, however, was very mild compared
with last year, I derived great benefit from the administration of
codeine, in combination with terpine hydrate, in the pill form. The
codeine has the advantage over all other opium preparations that it
does not affect the digestive organs, and still acts in a soothing
manner. While during last year's sickness my patients lost from ten to
twenty pounds of their bodily weight, this year but one lost eight
pounds and the other five pounds.

As the etiology of this troublesome disease is yet enveloped in
obscurity, we may fairly conclude, by the success of my treatment, if
it should meet with the confirmation of the profession, that the much
pretended sensitive area, situated, according to Dr. Sajous, "at the
posterior end of the inferior turbinated bones and the corresponding
portion of the septum," or, according to Dr. John Mackenzie, who
locates this area "at the anterior extremity of the inferior
turbinated bone," need not necessarily be removed or destroyed by
cautery, in order to accomplish a cure of hay fever proper.

I examined my patients twice a week, and the closest rhinoscopical
exploration would not reveal the slightest pathological change in the
mucous membrane of the nares.

