Soon after we left, a number of the men and women collected together on
the after-deck, and commenced singing hymns, which occupation they kept
up with untiring fervour during the whole voyage. The young girls were
remarkable for weight and solidity of figure, ugliness of face, and
sweetness of voice. The clear, ringing tones, with a bell-like purity
and delicious _timbre_, issued without effort from between their thick,
beefy lips, and there was such a contrast between sound and substance,
that they attracted my attention more than I should have thought
possible. Some of the men, who had heard what we were, entered into
conversation with us. I soon discovered that they were all Läsare, and
one of them, who seemed to exercise a kind of leadership, and who was a
man of considerable intelligence, gave me a good deal of information
about the sect. They met together privately, he said, to read the New
Testament, trusting entirely to its inspired pages for the means of
enlightenment as to what was necessary for the salvation of their souls.
The clergy stood between them and the Voice of God, who had spoken not
to a particular class, but to all mankind. They were liable to a fine of
200 _rigs_ ($52) every time they thus met together, my informant had
once been obliged to pay it himself. Nevertheless, he said they were not
interfered with so much at present, except that they were obliged to pay
tithes, as before. "The king is a good man," he continued, "he means
well, and would do us justice if he had the power; but the clergy are
all against him, and his own authority is limited. Now they are going
to bring the question of religious freedom before the Diet, but we have
not the least hope that anything will be done." He also stated--what,
indeed, must be evident to every observing traveller--that the doctrines
of the Läsare had spread very rapidly, and that their numbers were
continually increasing.

The creation of such a powerful dissenting body is a thing that might
have been expected. The Church, in Sweden, had become a system of forms
and ceremonies. The pure spiritualism of Swedenborg, in the last
century, was a natural and gigantic rebound to the opposite extreme,
but, from its lofty intellectuality, was unfitted to be the nucleus of a
popular protest. Meanwhile, the souls of the people starved on the dry
husks which were portioned out to them. They needed genuine nourishment.
They are an earnest, reflective race, and the religious element is
deeply implanted in their nature. The present movement, so much like
Methodism in many particulars, owes its success to the same genial and
all-embracing doctrine of an impartial visitation of Divine grace,
bringing man into nearer and tenderer relations to his Maker. In a word,
it is the democratic, opposed to the aristocratic principle in religion.
It is fashionable in Sweden to sneer at the Läsare; their numbers,
character, and sincerity are very generally under-estimated. No doubt
there is much that is absurd and grotesque in their services; no doubt
they run into violent and unchristian extremes, and often merely
substitute fanaticism for spiritual apathy; but I believe they will in
the end be the instrument of bestowing religious liberty upon Sweden.

There was no end to the desire of these people for knowledge. They
overwhelmed us with questions about our country, its government, laws,
climate, productions and geographical extent. Next to America, they
seemed most interested in Palestine, and considered me as specially
favoured by Providence in having beheld Jerusalem. They all complained
of the burdens which fall upon a poor man in Sweden, in the shape of
government taxes, tithes, and the obligation of supporting a portion of
the army, who are distributed through the provinces. Thus Dalecarlia,
they informed me, with a population of 132,000, is obliged to maintain
1200 troops. The tax on land corresponded very nearly with the statement
made by my female postillion the previous day. Dalecarlia, its mines
excepted, is one of the poorest of the Swedish provinces. Many of its
inhabitants are obliged to wander forth every summer, either to take
service elsewhere, or to dispose of the articles they fabricate at home,
in order, after some years of this irregular life, to possess enough to
enable them to pass the rest of their days humbly at home. Our
fellow-passengers told me of several who had emigrated to America, where
they had spent five or six years. They grew home-sick at last, and
returned to their chilly hills. But it was not the bleak fir-woods, the
oat-fields, or the wooden huts which they missed; it was the truth, the
honesty, the manliness, and the loving tenderness which dwell in
Dalecarlian hearts.

We had a strong wind abeam, but our little steamer made good progress
down the lake. The shores contracted, and the white church of Leksand
rose over the dark woods, and between two and three o'clock in the
afternoon, we were moored in the Dal River, where it issues from the
Siljan. The Elfdal peddlers shouldered their immense packs and set out,
bidding us a friendly adieu as we parted. After establishing ourselves
in the little inn, where we procured a tolerable dinner, we called upon
the _Domprost_ Hvasser, to whom I had a letter from a countryman who
made a pedestrian journey through Dalecarlia five years ago. The
parsonage was a spacious building near the church, standing upon the
brink of a lofty bank overlooking the outflow of the Dal. The Domprost,
a hale, stout old man, with something irresistibly hearty and cheering
in his manner, gave us both his hands and drew us into the room, on
seeing that we were strangers. He then proceeded to read the letter.
"Ho!" he exclaimed, "to think that he has remembered me all this time!
And he has not forgotten that it was just midsummer when he was here!"
Presently he went out, and soon returned with a basket in one hand and
some plates in the other, which he placed before us and heaped with fine
ripe cherries. "Now it is autumn," said he; "it is no longer midsummer,
but we have a little of the summer's fruit left." He presented us to his
sister and daughter, and to two handsome young magisters, who assisted
him in his parochial duties.

We walked in the garden, which was laid out with some taste along the
brow of the hill. A superb drooping birch, eighty feet in height, was
the crowning glory of the place. The birch is the characteristic tree of
Sweden, as the fir is of Norway, the beech of Denmark, the oak of
England and Germany, the chestnut of Italy, and the palm of Esrypt. Of
northern trees, there is none more graceful in outline, but in the cold,
silvery hue of its foliage, summer can never find her best expression.
The parson had a neat little bowling-alley, in a grove of pine, on a
projecting spur of the hill. He did not disdain secular recreations; his
religion was cheerful and jubilant; he had found something else in the
Bible than the Lamentations of Jeremiah. There are so many Christians
who--to judge from the settled expression of their faces--suffer under
their belief, that it is a comfort to find those who see nothing
heretical in the fullest and freest enjoyment of life. There was an
apple-tree in the garden which was just bursting into blossoms for the
second time. I called the Domprost's attention to it, remarking, in a
line from Frithiof's Saga:--"_Hösten bjuder sin thron til varen_"
(Autumn offers his throne to the spring). "What!" he exclaimed in joyful
surprise, "do you know Tegner?" and immediately continued the quotation.

There was no resisting the hospitable persuasions of the family; we were
obliged to take supper and spend the evening with them. The daughter and
the two magisters sang for us all the characteristic songs of Wermeland
and Dalecarlia which they could remember, and I was more than ever
charmed with the wild, simple, original character of the native melodies
of Sweden. They are mostly in the minor key, and some of them might
almost be called monotonous; yet it is monotony, or rather simplicity,
in the notation, which sticks to the memory. The longings, the regrets,
the fidelity, and the tenderness of the people, find an echo in these
airs, which have all the character of improvisations, and rekindle in
the heart of the hearer the passions they were intended to relieve.

We at last took leave of the good old man and his friendly household.
The night was dark and rainy, and the magisters accompanied us to the
inn. In the morning it was raining dismally,--a slow, cold, driving
rain, which is the climax of bad weather. We determined, however, to
push onward as far as Fahlun, the capital of Dalecarlia, about four
Swedish miles distant. Our road was down the valley of the Dal Elv,
which we crossed twice on floating bridges, through a very rich,
beautiful, and thickly settled country. The hills were here higher and
bolder than in Westerdal, dark with forests of fir and pine, and swept
south-eastward in long ranges, leaving a broad, open valley for the
river to wander in. This valley, from three to five miles in width, was
almost entirely covered with enclosed fields, owing to which the road
was barred with gates, and our progress was much delayed thereby. The
houses were neat and substantial, many of them with gardens and orchards
attached, while the unusual number of the barns and granaries gave
evidence of a more prosperous state of agriculture than we had seen
since leaving the neighborhood of Carlstad. We pressed forward in the
rain and raw wind, and reached Fahlun towards evening, just in time to
avoid a drenching storm.

Of the celebrated copper-mines of Fahlun, some of which have been worked
for 600 years, we saw nothing. We took their magnitude and richness for
granted, on the strength of the immense heaps of dross through which we
drove on approaching the town, and the desolate appearance of the
surrounding country, whose vegetation has been for the most part
destroyed by the fumes from the smelting works. In our sore and sodden
condition, we were in no humour to go sight seeing, and so sat
comfortably by the stove, while the rain beat against the windows, and
the darkness fell. The next morning brought us a renewal of the same
weather, but we set out bravely in our open cart, and jolted over the
muddy roads with such perseverance, that we reached Hedemora at night.
The hills diminished in height as we proceeded southward, but the
scenery retained its lovely pastoral character. My most prominent
recollection of the day's travel, however, is of the number of gates our
numb and blue-faced boy-postillions were obliged to jump down and open.

From Hedemora, a journey of two days through the provinces of Westerås
and Uppland, brought us to Upsala. After leaving Dalecarlia and crossing
the Dal River for the fifth and last time, the country gradually sank
into those long, slightly rolling plains, which we had traversed last
winter, between Stockholm and Gefle. Here villages were more frequent,
but the houses had not the same air of thrift and comfort as in
Dalecarlia. The population also changed in character, the faces we now
saw being less bright, cheerful, and kindly, and the forms less tall and
strongly knit.

We had very fair accommodations, at all the post-stations along the
road, and found the people everywhere honest and obliging. Still, I
missed the noble simplicity which I had admired so much in the natives
of Westerdal, and on the frontier of Wermeland,--the unaffected kindness
of heart, which made me look upon every man as a friend.

The large town of Sala, where we spent a night, was filled with
fugitives from Upsala, where the cholera was making great ravages. The
violence of the disease was over by the time we arrived; but the
students, all of whom had left, had not yet returned, and the fine old
place had a melancholy air. The first thing we saw on approaching it,
was a funeral. Professor Bergfalk, who had remained at his post, and to
whom I had letters, most kindly gave me an entire day of his time. I saw
the famous _Codex argenteus_, in the library, the original manuscript of
Frithiof's Saga, the journals of Swedenborg and Linnæus, the Botanical
Garden, and the tombs of Gustavus Vasa and John III. in the cathedral.
But most interesting of all was our drive to Old Upsala, where we
climbed upon the mound of Odin, and drank mead out of the silver-mounted
drinking horn, from which Bernadotte, Oscar, and the whole royal family
of Sweden, are in the habit of drinking when they make a pilgrimage to
the burial place of the Scandinavian gods.

A cold, pale, yellow light lay upon the landscape; the towers of Upsala
Cathedral, and the massive front of the palace, rose dark against the
sky, in the south-west; a chill autumnal wind blew over the plains, and
the yellowing foliage of the birch drifted across the mysterious mounds,
like those few golden leaves of poetry, which the modern bards of the
North have cast upon the grave of the grand, muscular religion of the
earlier race. There was no melodious wailing in the wind, like that
which proclaimed "Pan is dead!" through the groves of Greece and Ionia;
but a cold rustling hiss, as if the serpent of Midgard were exulting
over the ruin of Walhalla. But in the stinging, aromatic flood of the
amber-coloured mead, I drank to Odin, to Balder, and to Freja.

We reached Stockholm on the 22nd of September, in the midst of a furious
gale, accompanied with heavy squalls of snow--the same in which the
Russian line-of-battle ship "_Lefort_," foundered in the Gulf of
Finland. In the mild, calm, sunny, autumn days which followed, the
beautiful city charmed us more than ever, and I felt half inclined to
take back all I had said against the place, during the dismal weather of
last spring. The trees in the Djurgård and in the islands of Mälar, were
still in full foliage; the Dalecarlian boatwomen plied their crafts in
the outer harbour; the little garden under the Norrbro was gay with
music and lamps every evening; and the brief and jovial summer life of
the Swedes, so near its close, clung to the flying sunshine, that not a
moment might be suffered to pass by unenjoyed.

In another week we were standing on the deck of the Prussian steamer
"_Nagler_," threading the rocky archipelago between Stockholm and the
open Baltic on our way to Stettin. In leaving the North, after ten
months of winter and summer wanderings, and with scarce a hope of
returning again, I found myself repeating, over and over again, the
farewell of Frithiof:--

     "_Farväl, J fjällar,
       Der äran bor;
     J runohällar,
       För väldig Thor;
     J blåa sjöar,
       Jag känt så väl;
     J skär och öar,_
       _Farväl, farväl!_"


THE END.



                      Irving's Life of Washington--


                     I. THE POPULAR EDITION IN 12MO.

Complete in 5 vols., 12mo., cloth,                                  7.00
                     sheep,                                         8.50
                     half calf, extra,                             12.50
                     half calf antique,                            12.50


                    II. THE SUNNYSIDE EDITION IN 12MO.

On tinted paper, with 24 Steel Plates, and 24 Wood Cuts.
(In Press.)

