Produced by Jonathan Ingram, David Garcia and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XVII, NO. 475.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE PRINCESS ELIZABETH'S COTTAGE, WINDSOR.]


THE PRINCESS ELIZABETH'S COTTAGE, WINDSOR.


They who draw their notions of royal enjoyment from the tinsel of its
external trappings, will scarcely believe the above cottage to have been
the residence of an English princess. Yet such was the rank of its
occupant but a few years since, distant as may be the contrast of courts
and cottages, and the natural enjoyment of rural life from the
artificial luxury--the painted pomp and idle glitter of regal state.

The above cottage stands in the grounds of Grove House, adjoining the
churchyard of Old Windsor. It was built under the superintendent taste
of the Princess Elizabeth,[1] second sister of the present King, and now
known as the Landgravine of Hesse Homburg. To the decoration of this
cottage the Princess paid much attention: it is quite in the
_ornée_ style; and its situation is so beautiful as to baffle all
embellishment.

Grove House, the seat of Lady Dowager Onslow, of whom the Princess
purchased the whole property, was built by Mr. Bateman, uncle to the
eccentric Lord Bateman. This gentleman made it a point in his travels
to notice everything that pleased him in the monasteries abroad; and,
on his return to England, he built this house; the bedchamber being
contrived, like the cells of monks, with a refectory, and every other
appendage of a monastery; even to a cemetery, and a coffin, inscribed
with the name of a supposititious ancient bishop. Some curious Gothic
chairs, bought at a sale of the curiosities in this house, are now at
Strawberry Hill.

Old Windsor gives rise to many more interesting reminiscences; and few
who "suck melancholy from a song" would exchange its sombre churchyard
for the gayest field of fancy. We may be there anon.

    [1] Born May 22, 1770; married April 7, 1818, to Frederick Joseph
        Lewis, Landgrave of Hesse Homburg, who died April 2, 1829 aged 61.


       *       *       *       *       *


ENGLISH SUPERSTITION.

(_For the Mirror._)

Sir Walter Scott, in his history of _Demonology and Witchcraft_,
has omitted a tradition which is still popular in Cheshire, and which
from its close resemblance to one of the Scottish legends related by
that writer, gives rise to many interesting conjectures respecting the
probable causes of such a superstition being believed in countries with
apparently so little connexion or intercourse, as Cheshire and Scotland.
The facts of Sir Walter's narration are as follow: vide _Demonology
and Witchcraft_, p. 133.

"A daring horse jockey having sold a horse to a man of venerable and
antique appearance, had a remarkable hillock on the Eildon Hills, called
Lucken Hare, appointed as the place where, at twelve o'clock at night,
he should receive the price. He came, the money was paid in an ancient
coin, and he was invited by the purchaser to view his residence. The
trader followed his guide through several long ranges of stalls, in each
of which a horse stood motionless, while an armed warrior lay equally
still at his charger's feet. 'All these men,' said the wizard in a
whisper, 'will awaken at the battle of Sheriffmoor.' A horn and a sword
hung suspended together at one extremity of the chamber. The former the
jockey seized, and having sounded it, the horses stamped, the men arose
and clashed their armour; while a voice like that of a giant pronounced
these words:--

  "Woe to the coward that ever he was born,
  Who did not draw the sword before he blew the horn."


Subsequent to this, Sir Walter proceeds to the relation of another
kindred tradition, the incidents of which do not materially differ from
those of the preceding. The scene of the Cheshire legend is placed in
the neighbourhood of Macclesfield, in that county, and the sign of a
public-house on Monk's Heath may have arrested the attention of many
travellers from London to Liverpool. This village hostel is known by the
designation of the Iron Gates. The sign represents a pair of ponderous
gates of that metal, opening at the bidding of a figure, enveloped in
a cowl; before whom kneels another, more resembling a modern yeoman
than one of the 12th or 13th century, to which period this legend is
attributed. Behind this person is a white horse rearing, and in the back
ground a view of Alderley Edge. The story is thus told of the tradition
to which the sign relates:

_The Iron Gates, or the Cheshire Enchanter._

A farmer from Mobberley was riding on a white horse over the heath,
which skirts Alderley Edge. Of the good qualities of his steed he was
justly proud; and while stooping down to adjust its mane, previously to
his offering it for sale at Macclesfield, he was surprised by the sudden
starting of the animal. On looking up he perceived a figure of more than
common height, enveloped in a cowl, and extending a staff of black wood
across his path. The figure addressed him in a commanding voice; told
him that he would seek in vain to dispose of his steed, for whom a
nobler destiny was in store, and bade him meet him when the sun had set,
with his horse, at the same place. He then disappeared. The farmer
resolving to put the truth of this prediction to the test, hastened on
to Macclesfield Fair, but no purchaser could be obtained for his horse.
In vain he reduced his price to half; many admired, but no one was
willing to be the possessor of so promising a steed. Summoning,
therefore, all his courage, he determined to brave the worst, and at
sunset reached the appointed place. The monk was punctual to his
appointment. Follow me, said he, and led the way by the _Golden
Stone_, _Stormy Point_, to _Saddle Bole_.[2] On their arrival at this
last named spot, the neigh of horses seemed to arise from beneath their
feet. The stranger waved his wand, the earth opened and disclosed a pair
of ponderous iron gates. Terrified at this, the horse plunged and threw
his rider, who kneeling at the feet of his fearful companion, prayed
earnestly for mercy. The monk bade him fear nothing, but enter the
cavern, and see what no mortal eye ever yet beheld. On passing the gates
he found himself in a spacious cavern, on each side of which were horses,
resembling his own, in size and colour. Near these lay soldiers accoutred
in ancient armour, and in the chasms of the rock were arms, and piles of
gold and silver. From one of these the enchanter took the price of the
horse in ancient coin, and on the farmer asking the meaning of these
subterranean armies, exclaimed, "These are caverned warriors preserved
by the good genius of England, until that eventful day, when distracted
by intestine broils, England shall be thrice won and lost between sunrise
and sunset. Then we awakening from our sleep, shall rise to turn the fate
of Britain. This shall be when George, the son of George, shall reign.
When the Forests of Delamere shall wave their arms over the slaughtered
sons of Albion. Then shall the eagle drink the blood of princes from the
headless _cross_ (query corse.) Now haste thee home, for it is not
in thy time these things shall be. A Cestrian shall speak it, and be
believed." The farmer left the cavern, the iron gates closed, and though
often sought for, the place has never again been found.

The latter part of the monk's prophecy has been fulfilled. Nixon, the
well-known Cheshire seer foretold the same events in nearly the same
words; but the belief in his dreams of futurity, has been much
diminished by the decease of our late monarch. Recourse has been had, as
in other works of greater moment, to various readings, and the probable
mistakes of early transcribers, and many emendations have been proposed
to supply the place of the name of George, but _adhuc sub judice lis
est_. The Cestrian rustics of the neighbouring villages, still
believe that at midnight the neighing of horses is audible under
Alderley Edge.

H.

    [2] All places in the neighbourhood of Alderley Edge and Mobberley.


       *       *       *       *       *


ANTIQUARIAN SCRAPS.

(_To the Editor._)


I went the other day over the ruins of St. Dunstan's, and whilst gaping
about, saw over one of the portals (inside) an old harp, with an
inscription, which, as far as I could make it out, ran thus:--

  St. Dunstan's harp against a wall,
    Upon a pin did hang'a,
  The harp itself, with ly' and all,
    Untouched by hand did twang'a.


The harp was supposed to play by itself on St. Dunstan's Day: ly' means
lyre.

Can any of your intelligent correspondents inform me why there is an
elder tree in all the Palace Gardens?

There is at the back of Old London Bridge, on this side, a street called
"Labour in Vain Hill:" not from the height, but from a stone, on which
are engraved two figures washing a blackamoor.

GEO. ST. CLAIR.

_Dean-street, Soho._

       *       *       *       *       *

I do not know where your indefatigable correspondent _Zanga_
discovered his curious "Historical Fact," detailed in No. 471 of _The
Mirror_: it is highly amusing, but unfortunately void of truth. The
wife of the first Earl of Clarendon was Frances, daughter of Sir Thomas
Aylesbury, Bart. (now extinct) one of the Masters of Request; by whom he
had issue four sons--viz. Henry, his successor; Lawrence, created Earl
of Rochester; Edward, who died unmarried; and James, who was drowned
while going to Scotland in the Gloucester frigate: also two
daughters--viz. Ann, wife of James, Duke of York, afterwards James II.,
and Frances, married to Thomas Knightly, created a Knight of the Bath.

HENRY CARR.

       *       *       *       *       *


SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMOIR OF TAM O'SHANTER.

(_For the Mirror._)


Thomas Reid, so celebrated as Tam O'Shanter by Burns, was born in the
Kyle of Ayrshire. His first entrance into active life was in the
capacity of ploughboy to William Burns, the father of the poet, whom
Thomas described as a man of great capacity, as being very fond of an
argument, of rigid morals, and a strict disciplinarian--so much so, that
when the labours of the day were over, the whole family sat down by the
blazing "ha' ingle," and upon no pretence whatever could any of the
inmates leave the house after night. This was a circumstance that was
not altogether to Thomas's liking. He had heard other ploughboys with
rapture recount scenes of rustic jollity, which had fallen in their way,
while out on nocturnal visits to the fair daughters or servant girls of
the neighbouring farmers--scenes of which he was practically ignorant.
And more--he had become acquainted with a young woman he had met at
Maybole Fair; and having promised to call upon her at her father's
house, owing to his master's regularity of housekeeping, he had found it
totally impracticable.

To have one night's sport was his nightly and daily study for a long
time. It so happened that his mistress about this time was brought to
bed. Thomas hailed the bustle of that happy period as a fit time to
compass his long meditated visit. Mrs. Burns lay in the _spence_.
The gossips were met around the kitchen fire, listening to the howling
of the storm which raged without, and thundered down the chimney: it was
a January blast. Thomas kept his eye upon his master, who, with clasped
"hands and uplifted eyes, sat in the muckle chair in the ingle neuk," as
if engaged in supplication at the Throne of Grace for the safety of his
wife and child. Thomas drew his chair nearer the door, and upon some
little bustle in the kitchen, he reached the hallen, and was just
emerging into darkness, when the hoarse voice of the angry Burns rung
in the ears of the almost petrified ploughboy, "Where awa', Tam?"

"The auld doure whalp," muttered Tam, as he shut the door and resumed
his stocking; "I was gaun to the door to see if the win' was tirring the
thack aff the riggin."

"Thou needs na gang to look the night," cried the rigid overseer of
Doonholm, "when it is sae mirk, thou coudna' see thy finger afore thee."
It was indeed "a waefu' nicht." Such a night as this might give rise to
these admirable lines of that bard, about to be ushered into the world--

  "That night a child might understand
  The deil had business on his hand."


It was a little before the now pensive and thoughtful Burns was given to
understand that a son was born unto him, as

  "The wind blew as 'twad blawn its last,


that a horrid crash was heard; a shriek rose from the affrighted women,
as they drew their chairs nearer the fire. "The ghaists and howlets that
nightly cry about the ruins o' Alloway's auld haunted kirk" rose on
every imagination. The gudeman rose from his chair, lighted a lantern,
commanded Thomas to follow him, and left the house. The case was
this--the gable of the byre had been blown down, which, as it was of his
own building, was not of the most durable nature.

In due time the joyful father had his first-born son laid in his arms:
his joy knew no bounds. The _bicker_ was now sent round with
increasing rapidity; and Thomas, then in his fourteenth year, was
carried to his bed, to use his own words, "between the late and the
early, in a gude way, for the first time."--Such was the birth-night
of the poet.

How long Thomas Reid remained in the service of William Burns does not
appear. It is certain, however, that he was with him when Robert first
went to plough, as Thomas has repeatedly told, as an instance of Burns's
early addiction to reading, that he has seen him go to, and return from
plough, with a book in his hand, and at meal-times "_supping his
parritch_" with one hand and holding the book in the other.

It would appear that he had, in process of time, got better acquainted
with his sweetheart at Maybole Fair, for he married her. It was on this
occasion that he rented the Shanter farm, which, with the assistance of
his father-in-law, he stocked and furnished. But fortune went against
him:

  "His cattle died, and blighted was his corn;"


and an unfortunate friend, for whom he had become security for
150_l._, failed. Under such a load of ill, he, like many others,
sought for consolation in the "yill cups;" and any errand which served
as a pretext to visit the town of Ayr, renewed his worship to the
"inspiring, bold John Barleycorn;" and he usually returned, like the
Laird of Snotterston,

  "O'er a' the ills o' life victorious."


But Thomas had many a domestic squabble. His wife, naturally not of the
sweetest temper, was doubly soured by the misfortunes of the world, and
the dissipation of her helpmate; and often when Tam

  "Was gettin' fu' and unco happy,"


she sat at home,

  "Gathering her brows like gathering storm,
  Nursing her wrath to keep it warm."


She, like too many in that district at that time, was very
superstitious. Thomas took her by the weak side, and usually arrested
her "light-horse gallop of clish ma-claver" by some specious story of
ghost or hobgoblin adventures, with which he had been detained.

