 There may, however, be conditions under which even the
looser snow is comparatively impervious to water; as, for instance, when
rain falls upon a snow-field which has been long under a low
temperature, and an ice-crust is formed upon its surface, preventing the
water from penetrating below. Admitting, as I believe we must, that the
water thus introduced into the snow and ice is one of the most powerful
agents to which its motion is due, we must suppose that it has a twofold
influence, since its action when fluid and when frozen would be
different. When fluid, it would contribute to the advance of the mass in
proportion to its quantity; but when frozen, its expansion would produce
a displacement corresponding to the greater volume of ice as compared
with water; add to this that while trickling through the mass it will
loosen and displace the particles of already consolidated ice. I have
already said that I did not intend to trespass on the ground of the
physicist, and I will not enter here upon any discussion as to the
probable action of the laws of hydrostatic pressure and dilatation in
this connection. I will only state, that, so far as my own observation
goes, the movement of the glacier is most rapid where the greatest
amount of moisture is introduced into the mass, and that I believe there
must be a direct relation between these two facts. If I am right in
this, then the motion, so far as it is connected with infiltrated
moisture or with the dilatation caused by the freezing of that moisture,
will, of course, be most rapid where the glacier is most easily
penetrated by water, namely, in the region of the _névé_ and in the
upper portion of the glacier-troughs, where the _névé_ begins to be
transformed into more or less porous ice. This cause also accounts, in
part at least, for another singular fact in the motion of the glacier:
that, in its higher levels, where its character is more porous and the
water entering at the surface sinks readily to the bottom, there the
bottom seems to move more rapidly than the superficial parts of the
mass, whereas at the lower end of the glacier, in the region of the
compact ice, where the infiltration of the water at the bottom is at its
minimum, while the disintegrating influences at the surface admit of
infiltration to a certain limited depth, there the motion is greater
near the surface than toward the bottom. But, under all circumstances,
it is plain that the various causes producing motion, gravitation,
pressure, infiltration of water, frost, will combine to propel the mass
at a greater rate along its axis than near its margins. For details
concerning the facts of the case, I would refer to my work entitled
"Système Glaciaire."

We will next consider the stratification of the glacier. I have stated
in my introductory remarks, that I consider this to be one of its
primary and fundamental features, and I confess, that, after a careful
examination of the results obtained by my successors in the field of
glacial phenomena, I still believe that the original stratification of
the mass of snow from which the glacier arises gives us the key to many
facts of its internal structure. The ultimate features resulting from
this connection are so exceedingly intricate and entangled that their
relation is not easily explained. Nevertheless, I trust my readers will
follow me in this Alpine excursion, where I shall try to smooth the
asperities of the road for them as much as possible.

Imparted to it, at the very beginning of its formation, by the manner in
which snow accumulates, and retained through all its transformations,
the stratification of a glacier, however distorted, and at times almost
obliterated, remains, notwithstanding, as distinct to one who is
acquainted with all its phases, as is the stratified character of
metamorphic rocks to the skilful geologist, even though they may be
readily mistaken for plutonic masses by the common observer. Indeed,
even those secondary features, as the dirt-bands, for instance, which we
shall see to be intimately connected with snow-strata, and which
eventually become so prominent as to be mistaken for the cause of the
lines of stratification, do nevertheless tend, when properly understood,
to make the evidence of stratification more permanent, and to point out
its primitive lines.

On the plains, in our latitude, we rarely have the accumulated layers of
several successive snow-storms preserved one above another. We can,
therefore, hardly imagine with what distinctness the sequence of such
beds is marked in the upper Alpine regions. The first cause of this
distinction between the layers is the quality of the snow when it falls,
then the immediate changes it undergoes after its deposit, then the
falling of mist or rain upon it, and lastly and most efficient of all,
the accumulation of dust upon its surface. One who has not felt the
violence of a storm in the high mountains, and seen the clouds of dust
and sand carried along with the gusts of wind passing over a
mountain-ridge and sweeping through the valley beyond, can hardly
conceive that not only the superficial aspect of a glacier, but its
internal structure also, can be materially affected by such a cause. Not
only are dust and sand thus transported in large quantities to the
higher mountain-regions, but leaves are frequently found strewn upon the
upper glacier, and even pine-cones, and maple-seeds flying upward on
their spread wings, are scattered thousands of feet above and many miles
beyond the forests where they grew.

This accumulation of sand and dust goes on all the year round, but the
amount accumulated over one and the same surface is greatest during the
summer, when the largest expanse of rocky wall is bare of snow and its
loose soil dried by the heat so as to be easily dislodged. This summer
deposit of loose inorganic materials, light enough to be transported by
the wind, forms the main line of division between the snow of one year
and the next, though only that of the last year is visible for its whole
extent. Those of the preceding years, as we shall see hereafter, exhibit
only their edges cropping out lower down one beyond another, being
brought successively to lower levels by the onward motion of the
glacier.

Other observers of the glacier, Professor Forbes and Dr. Tyndall, have
noticed only the edges of these seams, and called them dirt-bands.
Looking upon them as merely superficial phenomena, they have given
explanations of their appearance which I hold to be quite untenable.
Indeed, to consider these successive lines of dirt on the glacier as
limited only to its surface, and to explain them from that point of
view, is much as if a geologist were to consider the lines presented by
the strata on a cut through a sedimentary mass of rock as representing
their whole extent, and to explain them as a superficial deposit due to
external causes.

A few more details may help to make this statement clearer to my
readers. Let us imagine that a fresh layer of snow has fallen in these
mountain-regions, and that a deposit of dirt has been scattered over its
surface, which, if any moisture arises from the melting of the snow or
from the falling of rain or mist, will become more closely compacted
with it. The next snow-storm deposits a fresh bed of snow, separated
from the one below it by the sheet of dust just described, and this bed
may, in its turn, receive a like deposit. For greater ease and
simplicity of explanation, I speak here as if each successive snow-layer
were thus indicated; of course this is not literally true, because
snow-storms in the winter may follow each other so fast that there is no
time for such a collection of foreign materials upon each newly formed
surface. But whenever such a fresh snow-bed, or accumulation of beds,
remains with its surface exposed for some time, such a deposit of dirt
will inevitably be found upon it. This process may go on till we have a
number of successive snow-layers divided from each other by thin sheets
of dust. Of course, such seams, marking the stratification of snow, are
as permanent and indelible as the seams of coarser materials alternating
with the finest mud in a sedimentary rock.

The gradual progress of a glacier, which, though more rapid in summer
than in winter, is never intermitted, must, of course, change the
relation of these beds to each other. Their lower edge is annually cut
off at a certain level, because the snow deposited every winter melts
with the coming summer, up to a certain line, determined by the local
climate of the place. But although the snow does not melt above this
line, we have seen, in the preceding article, that it is prevented from
accumulating indefinitely in the higher regions by its own tendency to
move down to the lower valleys, and crowding itself between their walls,
thus to force its way toward the outlet below. Now, as this movement is
very gradual, it is evident that there must be a perceptible difference
in the progress of the successive layers, the lower and older ones
getting the advance of the upper and more recent ones: that is, when the
snow that has covered the face of the country during one winter melts
away from the glacier up to the so-called snow-line, there will be seen
cropping out below and beyond that line the layers of the preceding
years, which are already partially transformed into ice, and have become
a part of the frozen mass of the glacier with which they are moving
onward and downward. In the autumn, when the dust of a whole season has
been accumulated upon the surface of the preceding winter's snow, the
extent of the layer which year after year will henceforth crop out lower
down, as a dirt-band, may best be appreciated.

Beside the snow-layers and the sheets of dust alternating with them,
there is still another feature of the horizontal and parallel structure
of the mass in immediate connection with those above considered. I
allude to the layers of pure compact ice occurring at different
intervals between the snow-layers. In July, when the snow of the
preceding winter melts up to the line of perpetual snow, the masses
above, which are to withstand the summer heat and become part of the
glacier forever, or at least until they melt away at the lower end,
begin to undergo the changes through which all snow passes before it
acquires the character of glacial ice. It thaws at the surface, is
rained upon, or condenses moisture, thus becoming gradually soaked, and
after assuming the granular character of _névé_-ice, it ends in being
transformed into pure compact ice. Toward the end of August, or early
in September, when the nights are already very cold in the Alps, but
prior to the first permanent autumnal snow-falls, the surface of these
masses becomes frozen to a greater or less depth, varying, of course,
according to temperature. These layers of ice become numerous and are
parallel to each other, like the layers of ice formed from slosh. Such
crusts of ice I have myself observed again and again upon the glacier.
This stratified snowy ice is now the bottom on which the first autumnal
snow-falls accumulate. These sheets of ice may be formed not only
annually before the winter snows set in, but may recur at intervals
whenever water accumulating upon an extensive snow-surface, either in
consequence of melting or of rain, is frozen under a sharp frost before
another deposit of snow takes place. Or suppose a fresh layer of light
porous snow to have accumulated above one the surface of which has
already been slightly glazed with frost; rain or dew, falling upon the
upper one, will easily penetrate it; but when it reaches the lower one,
it will be stopped by the film of ice already formed, and under a
sufficiently low temperature, it will be frozen between the two. This
result may be frequently noticed in winter, on the plains, where sudden
changes of temperature take place.

There is still a third cause, to which the same result may possibly be
due, and to which I shall refer at greater length hereafter; but as it
has not, like the preceding ones, been the subject of direct
observation, it must be considered as hypothetical. The admirable
experiments of Dr. Tyndall have shown that water may be generated in ice
by pressure, and it is therefore possible that at a lower depth in the
glacier, where the incumbent weight of the mass above is sufficient to
produce water, the water thus accumulated may be frozen into ice-layers.
But this depends so much upon the internal temperature of the glacier,
about which we know little beyond a comparatively superficial depth,
that it cannot at present afford a sound basis even for conjecture.

There are, then, in the upper snow-fields three kinds of horizontal
deposits: the beds of snow, the sheets of dust, and the layers of ice,
alternating with each other. If, now, there were no modifying
circumstances to change the outline and surface of the glacier,--if it
moved on uninterruptedly through an open valley, the lower layers,
forming the mass, getting by degrees the advance of the upper ones, our
problem would be simple enough. We should then have a longitudinal mass
of snow, inclosed between rocky walls, its surface crossed by straight
transverse lines marking the annual additions to the glacier, as in the
adjoining figure.

[Illustration]

But that mass of snow, before it reaches the outlet of the valley, is to
be compressed, contorted, folded, rent in a thousand directions. The
beds of snow, which in the upper ranges of the mountain were spread out
over broad, open surfaces, are to be crowded into comparatively
circumscribed valleys, to force and press themselves through narrow
passes, alternately melting and freezing, till they pass from the
condition of snow into that of ice, to undergo, in short, constant
transformations, by which the primitive stratification will be
extensively modified. In the first place, the more rapid motion of the
centre of the glacier, as compared with the margins, will draw the lines
of stratification downward toward the middle faster than at the sides.
Accurate measurements have shown that the axis of a glacier may move
ten- or twenty-fold more rapidly than its margins. This is not the place
to introduce a detailed account of the experiments made to ascertain
this result; but I would refer those who are interested in the matter to
the measurements given in my "Système Glaciaire," where it will be seen
that the middle may move at a rate of two hundred feet a year, while the
margins may not advance more than ten or fifteen or twenty feet. These
observations of mine have the advantage over those of other observers,
that, while they embrace the whole extent of the glacier, transversely
as well as in its length, they cover a period of several successive
years, instead of being limited to summer campaigns and a few winter
observations. The consequence of this mode of progressing will be that
the straight lines drawn transversely across the surface of the glacier
above will be gradually changed to curved ones below. After a few years,
such a line will appear on the surface of the glacier like a crescent,
with the bow turned downward, within which, above, are other crescents,
less and less sharply arched up to the last year's line, which may be
again straight across the snow-field. (See the subjoined figure, which
represents a part of the glacier of the Lauter-Aar.)

[Illustration]

Thus the glacier records upon its surface its annual growth and
progress, and registers also the inequality in the rate of advance
between the axis and the sides.

But these are only surface-phenomena. Let us see what will be the effect
upon the internal structure. We must not forget, in considering the
changes taking place within glaciers, the shape of the valleys which
contain them. A glacier lies in a deep trough, and the tendency of the
mass will be to sink toward its deeper part, and to fold inward and
downward, if subjected to a strong lateral pressure,--that is, to dip
toward the centre and slope upward along the sides, following the scoop
of the trough. If, now, we examine the face of a transverse cut in the
glacier, we find it traversed by a number of lines, vertical in some
places, more or less oblique in others, and frequently these lines are
joined together at the lower ends, forming loops, some of which are
close and vertical, while others are quite open. These lines are due to
the folding of the strata in consequence of the lateral pressure they
are subjected to, when crowded into the lower course of the valleys, and
the difference in their dip is due to the greater or less force of that
pressure. The wood-cut on the next page represents a transverse cut
across the Lauter-Aar and the Finster-Aar, the two principal tributaries
to the great Aar glacier, and includes also a number of small lateral
glaciers which join them. The beds on the left, which dip least, and are
only folded gently downward, forming very open loops, are those of the
Lauter-Aar, where the lateral pressure is comparatively slight. Those
which are almost vertical belong in part to the several small tributary
glaciers, which have been crowded together and very strongly compressed,
and partly to the Finster-Aar. The close uniform vertical lines in this
wood-cut represent a different feature in the structure of the glacier,
called blue bands, to which I shall refer presently. These loops or
lines dipping into the internal mass of the glacier have been the
subject of much discussion, and various theories have been recently
proposed respecting them. I believe them to be caused, as I have said,
by the snow-layers, originally deposited horizontally, but afterward
folded into a more or less vertical position, in consequence of the
lateral pressure brought to bear upon them. The sheets of dust and of
ice alternating with the snow-strata are of course subjected to the same
action, and are contorted, bent, and folded by the same lateral
pressure.

[Illustration]

Dr. Tyndall has advanced the view that the lines of apparent
stratification, and especially the dirt-bands across the surface of the
glacier, are due to ice-cascades: that is, the glacier, passing over a
sharp angle, is cracked across transversely in consequence of the
tension, and these rents, where the back of the glacier has been
successively broken, when recompacted, cause the transverse lines, the
dirt being collected in the furrow formed between the successive ridges.
Unfortunately for his theory, the lines of stratification constantly
occur in glaciers where no such ice-falls are found. His principal
observations upon this subject were made on the Glacier du Géant, where
the ice-cascade is very remarkable. The lines may perhaps be rendered
more distinct on the Glacier du Géant by the cascade, and necessarily
must be so, if the rents coincide with the limit at which the annual
snow-line is nearly straight across the glacier. In the region of the
Aar glacier, however, where my own investigations were made, all the
tributaries entering into the larger glacier are ribbed across in this
way, and most of them join the main trunk over uniform slopes, without
the slightest cascade.

It must be remembered that these surface-phenomena of the glacier are
not to be seen at all times, nor under all conditions. During the first
year of my sojourn on the glacier of the Aar, I was not aware that the
stratification of its tributaries was so universal as I afterward found
it to be; the primitive lines of the strata are often so far erased that
they are not perceptible, except under the most favorable circumstances.
But when the glacier has been washed clean by rain, and the light
strikes upon it in the right direction, these lines become perfectly
distinct, where, under different conditions, they could not be discerned
at all. After passing many summers on the same glacier, renewing my
observations year after year over the same localities, I can confidently
state that not only do the lines of stratification exist throughout the
great glacier of the Aar, but in all its tributaries also. Of course,
they are greatly modified in the lower part of the glacier by the
intimate fusion of its tributaries, and by the circumstance that their
movement, primarily independent, is merged in the movement of the main
glacier embracing them all. We have seen that not only does the centre
of a glacier move more rapidly than its sides, but that the deeper mass
of the glacier also moves at a different rate from its more superficial
portion. My own observations (for the details of which I would again
refer the reader to my "Système Glaciaire ") show that in the higher
part of the glacier, especially in the region of the _névé_, the bottom
of the mass seems to move more rapidly than the surface, while lower
down, toward the terminus of the glacier, the surface, on the contrary,
moves faster than the bottom. The annexed wood-cut exhibits a
longitudinal section of the glacier, in which this difference in the
motion of the upper and lower portions of the mass is represented, the
beds being almost horizontal in the upper snow-fields, while their lower
portion slopes move rapidly downward in the _névé_ region, and toward
the lower end the upper portion takes the lead, and advances more
rapidly than the lower.

[Illustration]

I presented these results for the first time in two letters, dated
October 9th, 1842, which were published in a German periodical, the
Jahrbuch of Leonhard and Bronn. The last three wood-cuts introduced
above, the transverse and longitudinal sections of the glacier as well
as that representing the concentric lines of stratification on the
surface, are the identical ones contained in those communications. These
papers seem to have been overlooked by contemporary investigators, and I
may be permitted to translate here a passage from one of them, since it
sums up the results of the inequality of motion throughout the glacier
and its influence on the primitive stratification of the mass in as few
words and as correctly as I could give them to-day, twenty years
later:--"Combining these views, it appears that the glacier may be
represented as composed of concentric shells which arise from the
parallel strata of the upper region by the following process. The
primitively regular strata advance into gradually narrower and deeper
valleys, in consequence of which the margins are raised, while the
middle is bent not only downward, but, from its more rapid motion,
forward also, so that they assume a trough-like form in the interior of
the mass. Lower down, the glacier is worn by the surrounding air, and
assumes the peculiar form characteristic of its lower course." The last
clause alludes to another series of facts, which we shall examine in a
future article, when we shall see that the heat of the walls in the
lower part of its course melts the sides of the glacier, so that,
instead of following the trough-like shape of the valley, it becomes
convex, arching upward in the centre and sinking at the margins.

I have dwelt thus long, and perhaps my readers may think tediously, upon
this part of my subject, because the stratification of the glacier has
been constantly questioned by the more recent investigators of glacial
phenomena, and has indeed been set aside as an exploded theory. They
consider the lines of stratification, the dirt-bands, and the seams of
ice alternating with the more porous snow, as disconnected
surface-phenomena, while I believe them all to be intimately connected
together as primary essential features of the original mass.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is another feature of glacial structure, intimately connected, by
similarity of position and aspect, with the stratification, which has
greatly perplexed the students of glacial phenomena. I allude to the
so-called blue bands, or bands of infiltration, also designated as
veined structure, ribboned or laminated structure, marginal structure,
and longitudinal structure. The difficulty lies, I believe, in the fact
that two very distinct structures, that of the stratification and the
blue bands, are frequently blended together in certain parts of the
glacier in such a manner as to seem identical, while elsewhere the one
is prominent and the other subordinate, and _vice versâ_. According to
their various opportunities of investigation, observers have either
confounded the two, believing them to be the same, or some have
overlooked the one and insisted upon the other as the prevailing
feature, while that very feature has been absolutely denied again by
others who have seen its fellow only, and taken that to be the only
prominent and important fact in this peculiar structural character of
the ice.

We have already seen how the stratification of the glacier arises,
accompanied by layers of dust and other material foreign to the glacier,
and how blue bands of compact ice may be formed parallel to the surface
of these strata. We have also seen how the horizontality of these strata
may be modified by pressure till they assume a position within the mass
of the glacier, varying from a slightly oblique inclination to a
vertical one. Now, while the position of the strata becomes thus altered
under pressure, other changes take place in the constitution of the ice
itself.

Before attempting to explain how these changes take place, let us
consider the facts themselves. The mass of the glacial ice is traversed
by thin bands of compact blue ice, these bands being very numerous along
the margins of the glacier, where they constitute what Dr. Tyndall calls
marginal structure, and still more crowded along the line upon which two
glaciers unite, where he has called it longitudinal structure. In the
latter case, where the extreme pressure resulting from the junction of
two glaciers has rendered the strata nearly vertical, these blue bands
follow their trend so closely that it is difficult to distinguish one
from the other. It will be seen, on referring to the wood-cut on page
758, where the close, uniform, vertical lines represent the true veined
structure, that at several points of that section the lines of
stratification run so nearly parallel with them, that, were the former
not drawn more strongly, they could not be easily distinguished from the
latter. Along the margins, also, in consequence of the retarded motion,
the blue bands and the lines of stratification run nearly parallel with
each other, both following the sides of the trough in which they move.

Undoubtedly, in both these instances, we have two kinds of blue bands,
namely: those formed primitively in a horizontal position, indicating
seams of stratification, and those which have arisen subsequently in
connection with the movement of the whole mass, which I have
occasionally called bands of infiltration, as they appeared to me to be
formed by the infiltration and freezing of water. The fact that these
blue bands are most numerous where two glaciers are crowded together
into a common bed naturally suggests pressure as their cause. And since
the beautiful experiments of Dr. Tyndall have illustrated the internal
liquefaction of ice by pressure, it becomes highly probable that his
theory of the origin of these secondary blue bands is the true one. He
suggests that layers of water may be formed in the glacier at right
angles with the pressure, and pass into a state of solid ice upon the
removal of that pressure, the pressure being of course relieved in
proportion to the diminution in the body of the ice by compression. The
number of blue bands diminishes as we recede from the source of the
pressure,--few only being formed, usually at right angles with the
surfaces of stratification, in the middle of a glacier, half-way between
its sides. If they are caused by pressure, this diminution of their
number toward the middle of the glacier would be inevitable, since the
intensity of the pressure naturally fades as we recede from the motive
power.

Dr. Tyndall also alludes to another structure of the same kind, which he
calls transverse structure, where the blue bands extend in
crescent-shaped curves, more or less arched, across the surface of the
glacier. Where these do not coincide with the stratification, they are
probably formed by vertical pressure in connection with the unequal
movement of the mass.

With these facts before us, it seems to me plain that the primitive blue
bands arise with the stratification of the snow in the very first
formation of the glacier, while the secondary blue bands are formed
subsequently, in consequence of the onward progress of the glacier and
the pressure to which it is subjected. The secondary blue bands
intersect the planes of stratification at every possible angle, and may
therefore seem identical with the stratification in some places, while
in others they cut it at right angles. It has been objected to my theory
of glacial structure, that I have considered the so-called blue bands as
a superficial feature when compared with the stratification. And in a
certain sense this is true; since, if my views are correct, the glacier
exists and is in full life and activity before the secondary blue bands
arise in it, whereas the stratification is a feature of its embryo
condition, already established in the accumulated snow before it begins
its transformation into glacier-ice. In other words, the veined
structure of the glacier is not a primary structural feature of its
whole mass, but the result of various local influences acting upon the
constitution of the ice: the marginal structure resulting from the
resistance of the sides of the valley to the onward movement of the
glacier, the longitudinal structure arising from the pressure caused by
two glaciers uniting in one common bed, the transverse structure being
produced by vertical pressure in consequence of the weight of the mass
itself and the increased rate of motion at the centre.

In the _névé_ fields, where the strata are still horizontal, the few
blue bands observed are perpendicular to the strata of snow, and
therefore also perpendicular to the blue seams of ice and the sheets of
dust alternating with them. Upon the sides of the glacier they are more
or less parallel to the slopes of the valley; along the line of junction
of two glaciers they follow the vertical trend of the axis of the mass;
while at intermediate positions they are more or less oblique. Along the
outcropping edges of the strata, on the surface of the glacier, they
follow more or less the dip of the strata themselves; that is to say,
they are more or less parallel with the dirt-bands. In conclusion, I
would recommend future investigators to examine the glaciers, with
reference to the distribution of the blue bands, after heavy rains and
during foggy days, when the surface is freed from the loose materials
and decomposed fragments of ice resulting from the prolonged action of
the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most important facts, then, to be considered with reference to the
motion of the glacier are as follows. First that the rate of advance
between the axis and the margins of a glacier differs in the ratio of
about ten to one and even less; that is to say; when the centre is
advancing at a rate of two hundred and fifty feet a year, the motion
toward the sides may be gradually diminished to two hundred, one hundred
and fifty, one hundred, fifty feet, and so on, till nearest the margin
it becomes almost inappreciable. Secondly, the rate of motion is not the
same throughout the length of the glacier, the advance being greatest
about half-way down in the region of the _névé_, and diminishing in
rapidity both above and below; thus the onward motion in the higher
portion of a glacier may not exceed twenty to fifty feet a year, while
it reaches its maximum of some two hundred and fifty feet annually in
the _névé_ region, and is retarded again toward the lower extremity,
where it is reduced to about one-fourth of its maximum rate. Thirdly,
the glacier moves at different rates throughout the thickness of its
mass; toward the lower extremity of the glacier the bottom is retarded,
and the surface portion moves faster, while in the upper region the
bottom seems to advance more rapidly. I say _seems_, because upon this
latter point there are no positive measurements, and it is only
inferred from general appearances, while the former statement has been
demonstrated by accurate experiments. Remembering the form of the
troughs in which the glaciers arise, that they have their source in
expansive, open fields of snow and _névé_, and that these immense
accumulations move gradually down into ever narrowing channels, though
at times widening again to contract anew, their surface wasting so
little from external influences that they advance far below the line of
perpetual snow without any sensible diminution in size, it is evident
that an enormous pressure must have been brought to bear upon them
before they could have been packed into the lower valleys through which
they descend.

Physicists seem now to agree that pressure is the chief agency in the
motion of glaciers. No doubt, all the facts point that way; but it now
becomes a matter of philosophical interest to determine in what
direction it acts most powerfully, and upon this point glacialists are
by no means agreed. The latest conclusion seems to be, that the weight
of the advancing mass is itself the efficient cause of the motion. But
while this is probably true in the main, other elements tending to the
same result, and generally overlooked by investigators, ought to be
taken into consideration; and before leaving the subject, I would add a
few words upon infiltration in this connection.

