    "Bianca was one of those energetic spirits whose resolutions
    are taken at once, and for ever. She saw that her whole future
    destiny was changed by this one accident, and she accepted
    without hesitation the new life which this accident had imposed
    on her. She re-ascended to her lover, related what had
    happened, demanded of him if he was ready to sacrifice all for
    her as she was for him, and proposed to take advantage of the
    two hours of the night which still remained to them, to quit
    Venice and conceal themselves from the pursuit of her parents.
    Pietro was true--he adopted immediately the proposal; they
    stepped into a gondola, and fled towards Florence.

    "Arrived at Florence, they took refuge with the father of
    Pietro--Bonaventuri the elder, who with his wife had a small
    lodging in the second floor in the place of St Mark. Strange!
    it is with poor parents that the children are so especially
    welcome. They received their son and their new daughter with
    open arms. Their servant was dismissed, both for economy and
    the better preservation of their secret. The good mother
    charged herself with the care of the little household. Bianca,
    whose white hands had been taught no such useful duties, set
    about working the most charming embroidery. The father, who
    earned his living as a copyist for public offices, gave out
    that he had retained a clerk, and took home a double portion of
    papers. All were employed, and the little family contrived to
    live.

    "Meanwhile, it will be easily imagined how great a commotion
    the flight of Bianca occasioned in the palace of the noble
    Capello. During the whole of the first day they made no
    pursuit, for they still, though with much anxiety, expected her
    return. The day passed, however, without any news of the
    fugitive; the flight, on the same morning, of Pietro
    Bonaventuri was next reported; a thousand little incidents
    which attracted no notice at the time were now brought back to
    recollection, and the result of the whole was the clear
    conviction that they had fled together. The influence of the
    Capelli was such that the case was brought immediately before
    the Council of Ten; and Pietro Bonaventuri was placed under the
    ban of the Republic. The sentence of this tribunal was made
    known to the government of Florence; and this government
    authorized the Capelli, or the officers of the Venetian
    Republic, to make all necessary search, not only in Florence,
    but throughout all Tuscany. The search, however was unavailing.
    Each one of the parties felt too great an interest in keeping
    their secret, and Bianca herself never stirred from the
    apartment.

    "Three months passed in this melancholy concealment, yet she
    who had been habituated from infancy to all the indulgences of
    wealth, never once breathed a word of complaint. Her only
    recreation was to look down into the street through the sloping
    blind. Now, amongst those who frequently passed across the
    Place of St Mark was the young grand-duke, who went every other
    day to see his father at his castle of Petraja. Francesco was
    young, gallant, and handsome; but it was not his youth or
    beauty that preoccupied the thoughts of Bianca, it was the idea
    that this prince, as powerful as he seemed gracious, might, by
    one word, raise the ban from Pietro Bonaventuri, and restore
    both him and herself to freedom. It was this idea which kindled
    a double lustre in the eyes of the young Venetian, as she
    punctually at the hour of his passing, ran to the window, and
    sloped the jalousie. One day, the prince happening to look up
    as he passed, met the enkindled glance of his fair observer.
    Bianca hastily retired."

What immediately follows need not be told at any length. Francesco was
enamoured: he obtained an interview. Bianca released and enriched her
lover, but became the mistress of the young duke. Pietro was quite
content with this arrangement; he had himself given the first example of
inconstancy. He entered upon a career of riotous pleasure, which ended
in a violent death.

Francesco, in obedience to his father, married a princess of the house
of Austria; but Bianca still retained her influence. His wife, who had
been much afflicted by this preference of her rival, died, and the
repentant widower swore never again to see Bianca. He kept the oath for
four months; but she placed herself as if by accident in his path, and
all her old power was revived. Francesco, by the death of his father,
became the reigning Duke of Tuscany, and Bianca Capello, his wife and
duchess. And now we arrive at that part of the story in which Ferdinand,
the brother of Francesco, and whose statue at Livorno led to this
history, enters on the scene.

    "About three years after their nuptials, the young Archduke,
    the issue of Francesco's previous marriage, died, leaving the
    ducal throne of Tuscany without direct heir; failing which the
    Cardinal Ferdinand would become Grand-duke at the death of his
    brother. Now Bianca had given to Francesco one son; but,
    besides that he was born before their marriage, and therefore
    incapable of succeeding, the rumour had been spread that he was
    supposititious. The dukedom, therefore, would descend to the
    Cardinal if the Grand-duchess should have no other child; and
    Francesco himself had begun to despair of this happiness, when
    Bianca announced to him a second pregnancy.

    "This time the Cardinal resolved to watch himself the
    proceedings of his dear sister-in-law, lest he should be the
    dupe of some new manoeuvre. He began, therefore, to cultivate
    in an especial manner the friendship of his brother, declaring,
    that the present condition of the Grand-duchess proved to him
    how false had been the rumours spread touching her former
    _accouchement_. Francesco, happy to find his brother in this
    disposition, returned his advances with the utmost cordiality.
    The Cardinal availed himself of this friendly feeling to come
    and install himself in the Palace Pitti.

    "The arrival of the Cardinal was by no means agreeable to
    Bianca, who was not at all deceived as to the true cause of
    this fraternal visit. She knew that, in the Cardinal, she had a
    spy upon her at every moment. The spy, however, could detect
    nothing that savoured of imposture. If her condition was
    feigned, the comedy was admirably played. The Cardinal began to
    think that his suspicions were unjust. Nevertheless, if there
    were craft, the game he determined should be played out with
    equal skill upon his side.

    "The eventful day arrived. The Cardinal could not remain in the
    chamber of Bianca, but he stationed himself in an antechamber,
    through which every one who visited her must necessarily pass.
    There he began to say his breviary, walking solemnly to and
    fro. After praying and promenading thus for about an hour, a
    message was brought to him from the invalid, requesting him to
    go into another room, as his tread disturbed her. 'Let her
    attend to her affairs, and I to mine,' was the only answer he
    gave, and the Cardinal recommenced his walk and his prayer.

    "Soon after this the confessor of the Grand-duchess entered--a
    Capuchin, in a long robe. The Cardinal went up to him, and
    embraced him in his arms, recommending his sister most
    affectionately to his pious care. While embracing the good
    monk, the Cardinal felt, or thought he felt, something strange
    in his long sleeve. He groped under the Capuchin's robe, and
    drew out--a fine boy.

    "'My dear brother,' said the Cardinal, 'I am now more tranquil.
    I am sure, at least, that my dear sister-in-law will not die
    this time in childbirth.'

    "The monk saw that all that remained was to avoid, if possible,
    the scandal; and he asked the Cardinal himself what he should
    do. The Cardinal told him to enter into the chamber of the
    Duchess, whisper to her what had happened, and, as she acted,
    so would he act. Silence should purchase silence; clamour,
    clamour.

    "Bianca saw that she must renounce at present her design to
    give a successor to the ducal crown; she submitted to a
    miscarriage. The Cardinal, on his side, kept his word, and the
    unsuccessful attempt was never betrayed.

    "A few months passed on; there was an uninterrupted harmony
    between the brothers, and Francesco invited the Cardinal, who
    was fond of field-sports, to pass some time with him at a
    country palace, famous for its preserves Of game.

    "On the very day of his arrival, Bianca, who knew that the
    Cardinal was partial to a certain description of tart,
    bethought her to prepare one for him herself. This flattering
    attention on the part of his sister-in-law was hinted to him by
    Francesco, who mentioned it as a new proof of the Duchess's
    amiability, but, as he had no great confidence in his
    reconciliation with Bianca, it was an intimation which caused
    him not a little disquietude. Fortunately, the Cardinal
    possessed an opal, given to him by Pope Sixtus V., which had
    the property of growing dim the moment it approached any
    poisonous substance. He did not fail to make trial of it on the
    tart prepared by Bianca. The opal grew dim and tarnished. The
    Cardinal said, with an assumed air of carelessness, that, on
    consideration, he would not eat to-day of the tart. The Duke
    pressed him; but not being able to prevail--'Well,' said he,
    'since Ferdinand will not eat of his favourite dish, it shall
    not be said that a Grand-duchess had turned confectioner for
    nothing--I will eat of it.' And he helped himself to a piece of
    the tart.

    "Bianca was in the act of bending forward to prevent him--but
    suddenly paused. Her position was horrible. She must either
    avow her crime, or suffer her husband to poison himself. She
    cast a quick retrospective glance along her past life; she saw
    that she had exhausted all the pleasures of the world, and
    attained to all its glories; her decision was rapid--as rapid
    as on that day when she had fled from Venice with Pietro. She
    also cut off a piece from the tart, and extending her hand to
    her husband, she smiled, and, with her other hand, eat of the
    poisoned dish.

    "On the morrow, Francesco and Bianca were dead. A physician
    opened their bodies by order of Ferdinand, and declared that
    they had fallen victims to a malignant fever. Three days after,
    the Cardinal threw down his red hat, and ascended the ducal
    throne."--P. 63.

But presto! Mr Dumas is traveller as well as annalist He must leave the
Middle Ages to themselves; the present moment has its exigences; he must
look to himself and his baggage. He had great difficulty in doing this
on his landing at the Port of Livorno; and now, on his departure, he is
beset with _vetturini_. Let us recur to some of these miseries of
travel, which may at least claim a wide sympathy, for most of us are
familiar with them. It is not necessary even to leave our own island to
find how great an embarrassment too much help may prove, but we
certainly have nothing in our own experience quite equal to the lively
picture of M. Dumas:--

    "I have visited many ports--I have traversed many towns--I have
    contended with the porters of Avignon--with the _facchini_ of
    Malta, and with the innkeepers of Messina, but I never entered
    so villanous a place as Livorno.

    "In every other country of the world there is some possibility
    of defending your baggage, of bargaining for its transport to
    the hotel; and if no treaty can be made, there is at least
    liberty given to load your own shoulders with it, and be your
    own porter. Nothing of this kind at Livorno. The vessel which
    brings you has not yet touched the shore when it is boarded;
    _commissionnaires_ absolutely rain upon you, you know not
    whence; they spring upon the jetty, throw themselves on the
    nearest vessel, and glide down upon you from the rigging.
    Seeing that your little craft is in danger of being capsized by
    their numbers, you think of self-preservation, and grasping
    hold of some green and slimy steps, you cling there, like
    Crusoe to his rock; then, after many efforts, having lost your
    hat, and scarified your knees, and torn your nails, you at
    length stand on the pier. So much for yourself. As to your
    baggage, it has been already divided into as many lots as there
    are articles; you have a porter for your portmanteau, a porter
    for your dressing-case, a porter for your hat-box, a porter for
    your umbrella, a porter for your cane. If there are two of you,
    that makes ten porters; if three, fifteen; as we were four, we
    had twenty. A twenty-first wished to take Milord (the dog,) but
    Milord, who permits no liberties, took him by the calf, and we
    had to pinch his tail till he consented to unlock his teeth.
    The porter followed us, crying that the dog had lamed him, and
    that he would compel us to make compensation. The people rose
    in tumult; and we arrived at the _Pension Suisse_ with twenty
    porters before us, and a rabble of two hundred behind.

    "It cost us forty francs for our portmanteaus, umbrellas, and
    canes, and ten francs for the bitten leg.[1] In all, fifty
    francs for about fifty steps."--P. 59.

    [1] This was not the only case of compensation made out against
    this travelling companion. "Milord," says our tourist, "in his
    quality of bulldog, was so great a destroyer of cats, that we
    judged it wise to take some precautions against overcharges in
    this particular. Therefore, on our departure from Genoa, in
    which town Milord had commenced his practices upon the feline
    race of Italy, we enquired the price of a full-grown,
    well-conditioned cat, and it was agreed on all hands that a cat
    of the ordinary species--grey, white, and tortoiseshell--was
    worth two pauls--(learned cats, Angora cats, cats with two
    heads or three tails, are not, of course, included in this
    tariff.) Paying down this sum for two several Genoese cats
    which had been just strangled by our friend, we demanded a
    legal receipt, and we added successively other receipts of the
    same kind, so that this document became at length an
    indisputable authority for the price of cats throughout all
    Italy. As often as Milord committed a new assassination, and
    the attempt was made to extort from us more than two pauls as
    the price of blood, we drew this document from our pocket, and
    proved beyond a cavil that two pauls was what we were
    accustomed to pay on such occasions, and obstinate indeed must
    have been the man or woman who did not yield to such a weight
    of precedent."

This was on his landing at Livorno: on his departure he gives us an
account, equally graphic, of the _vetturini_:--

    "A diligence is a creature that leaves at a fixed hour, and its
    passengers run to it; a vetturino leaves at all hours, and runs
    after its passengers. Hardly have you set your foot out of the
    boat that brings you from the steam-vessel to the shore, than
    you are assailed, stifled, dragged, deafened by twenty drivers,
    who look on you as their merchandise, and treat you
    accordingly, and would end by carrying you off bodily, if they
    could agree among them who should have the booty. Families have
    been separated at the port of Livorno, to find each other how
    they could in the streets of Florence. In vain you jump into a
    _fiacre_, they leap up before, above, behind; and at the gate
    of the hotel, there you are in the midst of the same group of
    villains, who are only the more clamorous for having been kept
    waiting. Reduced to extremities, you declare that you have come
    to Livorno upon commercial business, and that you intend
    staying eight days at least, and you ask of the _garçon_, loud
    enough for all to hear, if there is an apartment at liberty for
    the next week. At this they will sometimes abandon the prey,
    which they reckon upon seizing at some future time; they run
    back with all haste to the port to catch some other traveller,
    and you are free.

    "Nevertheless, if about an hour after this you should wish to
    leave the hotel, you will find one or two sentinels at the
    gate. These are connected with the hotel, and they have been
    forewarned by the _garçon_ that it will not be eight days
    before you leave--that, in fact, you will leave to-morrow.
    These it is absolutely necessary that you call in, and make
    your treaty with. If you should have the imprudence to issue
    forth into the street, fifty of the brotherhood will be
    attracted by their clamours, and the scene of the port will be
    renewed. They will ask ten piastres for a carriage--you will
    offer five. They will utter piercing cries of dissent--you will
    shut the door upon them. In three minutes one of them will
    climb in at the window, and engage with you for the five
    piastres.

    "This treaty concluded, you are sacred to all the world; in
    five minutes the report is spread through all Livorno that you
    are _engaged_. You may then go where you please; every one
    salutes you, wishes you _bon voyage_; you would think yourself
    amongst the most disinterested people in the world."--P. 94.

The only question that remains to be decided is that of the
drink-money--the _buona-mano_, as the Italian calls it. This is a matter
of grave importance, and should be gravely considered. On this
_buona-mano_ depends the rapidity of your journey; for the time may vary
at the will of the driver from six to twelve hours. Hereupon M. Dumas
tells an amusing story of a Russian prince, which not only proves how
efficient a cause this _buona mano_ may be in the accomplishment of the
journey, but also illustrates very forcibly a familiar principle of our
own jurisprudence, and a point to which the Italian traveller must pay
particular attention. We doubt if the necessity of a written agreement,
in order to enforce the terms of a contract, was ever made more
painfully evident than in the following instance:--

    "The Prince C---- had arrived, with his mother and a German
    servant, at Livorno. Like every other traveller who arrives at
    Livorno, he had sought immediately the most expeditious means
    of departure. These, as we have said, present themselves in
    sufficient abundance; the only difficulty is, to know how to
    use them.

    "The vetturini had learnt from the industrious porters that
    they had to deal with a prince. Consequently they demanded
    twelve piastres instead of ten, and the prince, instead of
    offering five, conceded the twelve piastres, but stipulated
    that this should include every thing, especially the
    _buona-mano_, which the master should settle with the driver.
    'Very good,' said the vetturini; the prince paid his twelve
    piastres, and the carriage started off, with him and his
    baggage, at full gallop. It was nine o'clock in the morning:
    according to his calculation, the Prince would be at Florence
    about three or four in the afternoon.

    "They had advanced about a quarter of a league when the horses
    relaxed their speed, and began to walk step by step. As to the
    driver, he sang upon his seat, interrupting himself now and
    then to gossip with such acquaintances as he met upon the road;
    and as it is ill talking and progressing at the same time, he
    soon brought himself to a full stop when he had occasion for
    conference.

    "The prince endured this for some time; at length putting his
    head out of the window, he said, in the purest Tuscan,
    '_Avanti! avanti! tirate via!_'

    "'How much do you give for _buona-mano_?' answered the driver,
    turning round upon his box.

    "'Why do you speak to me of your _buona-mano_?' said the prince.
    'I have given your master twelve piastres, on condition that it
    should include every thing.'

    "'The _buona-mano_ does not concern the master,' responded the
    driver; 'how much do you give?'

    "'Not a sou--I have paid.'

    "'Then, your excellence, we will continue our walk.'

    "'Your master has engaged to take me to Florenco in six hours,'
    said the Prince.

    "'Where is the paper that says that--the written paper, your
    excellence?'

    "'Paper! what need of a paper for so simple a matter? I have no
    paper.'

    "'Then, your excellence, we will continue our walk.'

    "'Ah, we will see that!' said the Prince.

    "'Yes, we _will_ see that!' said the driver.

    "Hereupon the prince spoke to his German servant, Frantz, who
    was sitting beside the coachman, and bade him administer due
    correction to this refractory fellow.

    "Frantz descended from the voiture without uttering a word,
    pulled down the driver from his seat, and pummelled him with
    true German gravity. Then pointing to the road, helped him on
    his box, and reseated himself by his side. The driver
    proceeded--a little slower than before. One wearies of all
    things in this world, even of beating a coachman. The prince,
    reasoning with himself that, fast or slow, he must at length
    arrive at his journey's end, counselled the princess his mother
    to compose herself to sleep; and, burying himself in one corner
    of the carriage, gave her the example.

    "The driver occupied six hours in going from Livorno to
    Pontedera; just four hours more than was necessary. Arrived at
    Pontedera, he invited the Prince to descend, as he was about to
    change the carriage.

    "'But,' said the Prince, 'I have given twelve piastres to your
    master on condition that the carriage should not be changed.'

    "'Where is the paper?'

    "'Fellow, you know I have none.'

    "'In that case, your excellence, we will change the carriage.'

    "The prince was half-disposed to break the rascal's bones
    himself; but, besides that this would have compromised his
    dignity, he saw, from the countenances of those who stood
    loitering round the carriage, that it would be a very imprudent
    step. He descended; they threw his baggage down upon the
    pavement, and after about an hour's delay, brought out a
    miserable dislocated carriage and two broken-winded horses.

    "Under any other circumstances the Prince would have been
    generous--would have been lavish; but he had insisted upon his
    right, he was resolved not to be conquered. Into this
    ill-conditioned vehicle he therefore doggedly entered, and as
    the new driver had been forewarned that there would be no
    _buona-mano_, the equipage started amidst the laughter and
    jeers of the mob.

    "This time the horses were such wretched animals that it would
    have been out of conscience to expect anything more than a walk
    from them. It took six more hours to go from Pontedera to
    Empoli.

    "Arrived at Empoli the driver stopped, and presented himself at
    the door of the carriage.

    "'Your excellence sleeps here,' said he to the prince.

    "'How! are we at Florence?'

    "'No, your excellence, you are at the charming little town of
    Empoli.'

    "'I paid twelve piastres to your master to go to Florence, not
    to Empoli. I will sleep at Florence.'

    "'Where is the paper?'

    "'To the devil with your paper!'

    "'Your excellence then has no paper?'

    "'No.'

    "'In that case, your excellence now will sleep at Empoli!'

    "In a few minutes afterwards the prince found himself driven
    under a kind of archway. It was a coach-house belonging to an
    inn. On his expressing surprise at being driven into this sort
    of place, and repeating his determination to proceed to
    Florence, the coachman said, that, at all events, he must
    change his horses; and that this was the most convenient place
    for so doing. In fact, he took out his horses, and led them
    away.

    "After waiting some time for his return, the prince called to
    Frantz, and bade him open the door of this coach-house, and
    bring somebody.

    "Frantz obeyed, but found the door shut--fastened.

    "On hearing that they were shut in, the prince started from the
    carriage, shook the gates with all his might, called out
    lustily, and looked about, but in vain, for some paving stone
    with which to batter them open.

    "Now the prince was a man of admirable good sense; so, having
    satisfied himself that the people in the house either could
    not, or would not hear him, he determined to make the best of
    his position. Re-entering the carriage, he drew up the glasses,
    looked to his pistols, stretched out his legs, and wishing his
    mother good night, went off to sleep. Frantz did the same on
    his post. The princess was not so fortunate; she was in
    perpetual terror of some ambush, and kept her eyes wide open
    all the night.

    "So the night passed. At seven o'clock in the morning the door
    of the coach-house opened, and a driver appeared with a couple
    of horses.

    "'Are there not some travellers for Florence here?' he asked
    with the tone of perfect politeness, and as if he were putting
    the most natural question in the world.

    "The prince leapt from the carriage with the intention of
    strangling the man--but it was another driver!

    "'Where is the rascal that brought us here?' he demanded.

    "'What, Peppino? Does your excellence mean Peppino?'

    "'The driver from Pontedera?'

    "'Ah, well, that was Peppino.'

    "'Then where is Peppino?'

    "'He is on his road home. Yes, your excellence. You see it was
    the fête of the Madonna, and we danced and drank together--I
    and Peppino--all the night; and this morning about an hour ago
    says he to me, 'Gaetano, do you take your horses, and go find
    two travellers and a servant who are under a coach-house at the
    _Croix d'Or_; all is paid except the _buona-mano_.' And I asked
    him, your excellence, how it happened that travellers were
    sleeping in a coach-house instead of in a chamber. 'Oh,' said
    he, 'they are English--they are afraid of not having clean
    sheets, and so they prefer to sleep in their carriage in the
    coach-house.' Now as I know the English are a nation of
    originals, I supposed it was all right, and so I emptied
    another flask, and got my horses, and here I am. If I am too
    early I will return, and come by and by.

    "'No, no, in the devil's name,' said the prince, 'harness your
    beasts, and do not lose a moment. There is a piastre for your
    _buona-mano_.'

    "They were soon at Florence.

    "The first care of the prince, after having breakfasted, for
    neither he nor the princess had eaten any thing since they had
    left Livorno, was to lay his complaint before a magistrate.

    "'Where is the paper?' said the judicial authority.

    "'I have none,' said the prince.

    "'Then I counsel you,' replied the judge, 'to let the matter
    drop. Only the next time give five piastres to the master, and
    a piastre and a half to the driver; you will save five piastres
    and a half, and arrive eighteen hours sooner.'"--P. 97.

M. Dumas, however, arrives at Florence without any such disagreeable
adventure as sleeping in a coach-house. He gives a pleasing description
of the Florentine people, amongst whom the spirit of commerce has died
away, but left behind a considerable share of the wealth and luxury that
sprang from it. There is little spirit of enterprise; no rivalry between
a class enriching itself and the class with whom wealth is hereditary;
the jewels that were purchased under the reign of the Medici still shine
without competitors on the promenade and at the opera. It is a people
that has made its fortune, and lives contentedly on its revenues, and on
what it gets from the stranger. "The first want of a Florentine," says
our author, "is repose; even pleasure is secondary; it costs him some
little effort to be amused. Wearied of its frequent political
convulsions, the town of the Medici aspires only to that unbroken and
enchanted slumber which fell, as the fairy tale informs us, on the
beautiful lady in the sleepy wood. No one here seems to labour, except
those who are tolling and ringing the church-bells, and they indeed
appear to have rest neither day nor night."

There are but three classes visible in Florence. The nobility--the
foreigner--and the people. The nobility, a few princely houses excepted,
spend but little, the people work but little, and it would be a marvel
how these last lived if it were not for the foreigner. Every autumn
brings them their harvest in the shape of a swarm of travellers from
England, France, or Russia, and, we may now add, America. The winter
pays for the long delicious indolence of the summer. Then the populace
lounges, with interminable leisure, in their churches, on their
promenades, round the doors of coffee-houses that are never closed
either day or night; they follow their religious processions; they
cluster with an easy good-natured curiosity round every thing that wears
the appearance of a fête; taking whatever amusement presents itself,
without caring to detain it, and quitting it without the least distrust
that some other quite as good will occupy its place. "One evening we
were roused," says our traveller, "by a noise in the street: two or
three musicians of the opera, on leaving the theatre, had taken a fancy
to go home playing a waltz. The scattered population of the streets
arranged themselves, and followed waltzing. The men who could find no
better partners, waltzed together. Five or six hundred persons were
enjoying this impromptu ball, which kept its course from the opera house
to the Port del Prato, where the last musician resided. The last
musician having entered his house, the waltzers returned arm-in-arm,
still humming the air to which they had been dancing."

    "It follows," continues M. Dumas, "from this commercial apathy,
    that at Florence you must seek after every thing you want. It
    never comes of itself--never presents itself before
    you;--everything there stays at home--rests in its own place. A
    foreigner who should remain only a month in the capital of
    Tuscany would carry away a very false idea of it. At first it
    seems impossible to procure the things the most indispensable,
    or those you do procure are bad; it is only after some time
    that you learn, and that not from the inhabitants, but from
    other foreigners who have resided there longer than yourself,
    where anything is to be got. At the end of six months you are
    still making discoveries of this sort; so that people generally
    quit Tuscany at the time they have learned to live there. It
    results from all this that every time you visit Florence you
    like it the better; if you should revisit it three or four
    times you would probably end by making of it a second country,
    and passing there the remainder of your lives."[2]

    [2] It is amusing to contrast the _artistic_ manner in which
    our author makes all his statements, with the style of a
    guide-book, speaking on the manufactures and industry of
    Florence. It is from Richard's _Italy_ we quote. Mark the
    exquisite medley of humdrum, matter-of-fact details, jotted
    down as if by some unconscious piece of mechanism:--"Florence
    _manufactures_ excellent silks, woollen cloths, elegant
    carriages, bronze articles, earthenware, straw hats, perfumes,
    essences, _and candied fruits_; also, all kinds of turnery and
    inlaid work, piano-fortes, philosophical and mathematical
    instruments, &c. The dyes used at this city are much admired,
    particularly the black, _and its sausages are famous throughout
    all Italy_."

Shall we visit the churches of Florence with M. Dumas? No, we are not in
the vein. Shall we go with him to the theatres--to the opera--to the
Pergola? Yes, but not to discuss the music or the dancing. Every body
knows that at the great theatres of Italy the fashionable part of the
audience pay very little attention to the music, unless it be a new
opera, but make compensation by listening devoutly to the ballet. The
Pergola is the great resort of fashion. A box at the Pergola, and a
carriage for the banks of the Arno, are the _indispensables_, we are
told, at Florence. Who has these, may eat his macaroni where he
pleases--may dine for sixpence if he will, or can: it is his own affair,
the world is not concerned about it--he is still a gentleman, and ranks
with nobles. Who has them not--though he be derived from the loins of
emperors, and dine every day off plate of gold, and with a dozen
courses--is still nobody. Therefore regulate your expenditure
accordingly, all ye who would be somebody. We go with M. Dumas to the
opera, not, as we have said, for the music or the dancing, but because,
as is the way with dramatic authors, he will there introduce us, for the
sake of contrast with an institution very different from that of an
operatic company--

    "Sometimes in the midst of a cavatina or a _pas-de-deux_, a
    bell with a sharp, shrill, excoriating sound, will be heard; it
    is the bell _della misericordia_. Listen: if it sound but once,
    it is for some ordinary accident; if twice, for one of a
    serious nature; if it sounds three times, it is a case of
    death. If you look around, you will see a slight stir in some
    of the boxes, and it will often happen that the person you have
    been speaking to, if a Florentine, will excuse himself for
    leaving you, will quietly take his hat and depart. You inquire
    what that bell means, and why it produces so strange an effect.
    You are told it is the bell _della misericordia_, and that he
    with whom you were speaking is a brother of the order.

    "This brotherhood of mercy is one of the noblest institutions
    in the world. It was founded in 1244, on occasion of the
    frequent pestilences which at that period desolated the town,
    and it has been perpetuated to the present day, without any
    alteration, except in its details--with none in its purely
    charitable spirit. It is composed of seventy-two brothers,
    called chiefs of the watch, who are each in service four months
    in the year. Of these seventy-two brothers, thirty are priests,
    fourteen gentlemen, and twenty-eight artists. To these, who
    represent the aristocratic classes and the liberal arts, are
    added 500 labourers and workmen, who may be said to represent
    the people.

    "The seat of the brotherhood is in the place _del Duomo_. Each
    brother has there, marked with his own name, a box enclosing a
    black robe like that of the _penitents_, with openings only for
    the eyes and mouth, in order that his good actions may have the
    further merit of being performed in secret. Immediately that
    the news of any accident or disaster is brought to the brother
    who is upon guard, the bell sounds its alarm, once, twice, or
    thrice, according to the gravity of the case; and at the sound
    of the bell every brother, wherever he may be, is bound to
    retire at the instant, and hasten to the rendezvous. There he
    learns what misfortune or what suffering has claimed his pious
    offices; he puts on his black robe and a broad hat, takes the
    taper in his hand, and goes forth where the voice of misery has
    called him. If it is some wounded man, they bear him to the
    hospital; if the man is dead, to a chapel: the nobleman and the
    day labourer, clothed with the same robe, support together the
    same litter, and the link which unites these two extremes of
    society is some sick pauper, who, knowing neither, is praying
    equally for both. And when these brothers of mercy have quitted
    the house, the children whose father they have carried out, or
    the wife whose husband they have borne away, have but to look
    around them, and always, on some worm-eaten piece of furniture,
    there will be found a pious alms, deposited by an unknown hand.

    "The Grand-duke himself is a member of this fraternity, and I
    have been assured that more than once, at the sound of that
    melancholy bell, he has clothed himself in the uniform of
    charity, and penetrated unknown, side by side with a
    day-labourer, to the bed's head of some dying wretch, and that
    his presence had afterwards been detected only by the alms he
    had left behind."--p. 126.

It is not to be supposed that our dramatist pursues the same direct and
unadventurous route that lies open to every citizen of Paris and London.
At the end of the first volume we leave him still at Florence; we open
the second, and we find him and his companion Jadin, and his companion's
dog Milord, standing at the port of Naples, looking out for some vessel
to take them to Sicily. So that we have travels in Italy with Rome left
out. Not that he did not visit Rome, but that we have no "souvenirs" of
his visit here. As the book is a mere _capriccio_, there can be no
possible objection taken to it on this score. Besides, the island of
Sicily, which becomes the chief scene of his adventures, is less beaten
ground. Nor do we hear much of Naples, for he quits Naples almost as
soon as he had entered it. This last fact requires explanation.

M. Dumas has had the honour to be an object of terror or of animosity to
crowned heads. When at Genoa, his Sardinian Majesty manifested this
hostility to M. Dumas--we presume on account of his too liberal
politics--by dispatching an emissary of the police to notify to him that
he must immediately depart from Genoa. Which emissary of his Sardinian
Majesty had no sooner delivered his royal sentence of deportation, than
he extended his hand for a _pour boire_. Either M. Dumas must be a far
more formidable person than we have any notion of, or majesty can be
very nervous, or very spiteful. And now, when he is about to enter
Naples----but why do we presume to relate M. Dumas's personal
adventures in any other language than his own? or language as near his
own as we--who are, we must confess, imperfect translators--can hope to
give.

