Mr. Stone lowered the sheet of paper, and stood, slightly curved from
head to foot; his ears moved as though he were about to lay them back;
his blue eyes, with little white spots of light alongside the tiny black
pupils, stared at his daughter.

Cecilia thought: 'He's listening now.'

She made haste.  "Must you have her here?  Can't you do without her?"

"Without whom?"  said Mr. Stone.

"Without the girl who comes to copy for you."

"Why?"

"For this very good reason---"

Mr. Stone dropped his eyes, and Cecilia saw that he had moved the sheet
of paper up as far as his waist.

"Does she copy better than any other girl could?"  she asked hastily.

"No," said Mr. Stone.

"Then, Father, I do wish, to please me, you'd get someone else.  I know
what I'm talking about, and I---" Cecilia stopped; her father's lips and
eyes were moving; he was obviously reading to himself.

'I've no patience with him,' she thought; 'he thinks of nothing but his
wretched book.'

Aware of his daughter's silence, Mr. Stone let the sheet of paper sink,
and waited patiently again.

"What do you want, my dear?"  he said.

"Oh, Father, do listen just a minute!"

"Yes, Yes."

"It's about that girl who comes to copy for you.  Is there any reason why
she should come instead of any other girl?"

"Yes," said Mr. Stone.

"What reason?"

"Because she has no friends."

So awkward a reply was not expected by Cecilia; she looked at the floor,
forced to search within her soul.  Silence lasted several seconds; then
Mr. Stone's voice rose above a whisper:

"'The reason was not far to seek.  Man, differentiated from the other
apes by his desire to know, was from the first obliged to steel himself
against the penalties of knowledge.  Like animals subjected to the
rigours of an Arctic climate, and putting forth more fur with each
reduction in the temperature, man's hide of courage thickened
automatically to resist the spear-thrusts dealt him by his own insatiate
curiosity.  In those days of which we speak, when undigested knowledge,
in a great invading horde, had swarmed all his defences, man, suffering
from a foul dyspepsia, with a nervous system in the latest stages of
exhaustion, and a reeling brain, survived by reason of his power to go on
making courage.  Little heroic as (in the then general state of petty
competition) his deeds appeared to be, there never had yet been a time
when man in bulk was more courageous, for there never had yet been a time
when he had more need to be.  Signs were not wanting that this desperate
state of things had caught the eyes of the community.  A little sect---'"
Mr. Stone stopped; his eyes had again tumbled over the bottom edge; he
moved hurriedly towards the desk.  Just as his hand removed a stone and
took up a third sheet, Cecilia cried out:

"Father!"

Mr. Stone stopped, and turned towards her.  His daughter saw that he had
gone quite pink; her annoyance vanished.

"Father!  About that girl---"

Mr. Stone seemed to reflect.  "Yes, yes," he said.

"I don't think Bianca likes her coming here."

Mr. Stone passed his hand across his brow.

"Forgive me for reading to you, my dear," he said; "it's a great relief
to me at times."

Cecilia went close to him, and refrained with difficulty from taking up
the tasselled cord.

"Of course, dear," she said: "I quite understand that."

Mr. Stone looked full in her face, and before a gaze which seemed to go
through her and see things the other side, Cecilia dropped her eyes.

"It is strange," he said, "how you came to be my daughter!"

To Cecilia, too, this had often seemed a problem.

"There is a great deal in atavism," said Mr. Stone, "that we know nothing
of at present."

Cecilia cried with heat, "I do wish you would attend a minute, Father;
it's really an important matter," and she turned towards the window,
tears being very near her eyes.

The voice of Mr. Stone said humbly: "I will try, my dear."

But Cecilia thought: 'I must give him a good lesson.  He really is too
self-absorbed'; and she did not move, conveying by the posture of her
shoulders how gravely she was vexed.

She could see nursemaids wheeling babies towards the Gardens, and noted
their faces gazing, not at the babies, but, uppishly, at other
nursemaids, or, with a sort of cautious longing, at men who passed. How
selfish they looked!  She felt a little glow of satisfaction that she was
making this thin and bent old man behind her conscious of his egoism.

'He will know better another time,' she thought.  Suddenly she heard a
whistling, squeaking sound--it was Mr. Stone whispering the third page of
his manuscript:

"'---animated by some admirable sentiments, but whose doctrines--riddled
by the fact that life is but the change of form to form--were too
constricted for the evils they designed to remedy; this little sect, who
had as yet to learn the meaning of universal love, were making the most
strenuous efforts, in advance of the community at large, to understand
themselves.  The necessary, movement which they voiced--reaction against
the high-tide of the fratricidal system then prevailing--was young, and
had the freshness and honesty of youth....'"

Without a word Cecilia turned round and hurried to the door.  She saw her
father drop the sheet of paper; she saw his face, all pink and silver,
stooping after it; and remorse visited her anger.

In the corridor outside she was arrested by a noise.  The uncertain light
of London halls fell there; on close inspection the sufferer was seen to
be Miranda, who, unable to decide whether she wanted to be in the garden
or the house, was seated beneath the hatrack snuffling to herself.  On
seeing Cecilia she came out.

"What do you want, you little beast?"

Peering at her over the tops of her eyes, Miranda vaguely lifted a white
foot.  'Why ask me that?' she seemed to say.  'How am I to know?  Are we
not all like this?'

Her conduct, coming at that moment, over-tried Cecilia's nerves.  She
threw open Hilary's study-door, saying sharply: "Go in and find your
master!"

Miranda did not move, but Hilary came out instead.  He had been
correcting proofs to catch the post, and wore the look of a man
abstracted, faintly contemptuous of other forms of life.

Cecilia, once more saved from the necessity of approaching her sister,
the mistress of the house, so fugitive, haunting, and unseen, yet so much
the centre of this situation, said:

"Can I speak to you a minute, Hilary?"

They went into his study, and Miranda came creeping in behind.

To Cecilia her brother-in-law always seemed an amiable and more or less
pathetic figure.  In his literary preoccupations he allowed people to
impose on him.  He looked unsubstantial beside the bust of Socrates,
which moved Cecilia strangely--it was so very massive and so very ugly!
She decided not to beat about the bush.

"I've been hearing some odd things from Mrs. Hughs about that little
model, Hilary."

Hilary's smile faded from his eyes, but remained clinging to his lips.

"Indeed!"

Cecilia went on nervously: "Mrs. Hughs says it's because of her that
Hughs behaves so badly.  I don't want to say anything against the girl,
but she seems--she seems to have---"

"Yes?"  said Hilary.

"To have cast a spell on Hughs, as the woman puts it."

"On Hughs!" repeated Hilary.

Cecilia found her eyes resting on the bust of Socrates, and hastily
proceeded:

"She says he follows her about, and comes down here to lie in wait for
her.  It's a most strange business altogether.  You went to see them,
didn't you?"

Hilary nodded.

"I've been speaking to Father," Cecilia murmured; "but he's hopeless--I,
couldn't get him to pay the least attention."

Hilary seemed thinking deeply.

