3. 'But if I had gone this morning,' she said, 'you would not have had
your pudding.'

'That would have been sad,' said Dora.

4. 'What a lot of steel we have seen,' said Harry. 'I never knew there
was so much in the world.'

5. 'You can see some on this table now.'

'Where?'

'What have I cut the pudding with?'

[Illustration]

'Oh, the knife! Yes, I see; that must be steel; at least, that part of
it. What do you call that part?'

'The blade.'

6. 'And what about the handle?'

'I don't know. It is yellow, and smooth, and hard.'

'It is bone,' said his uncle, 'part of an ox-bone. But some handles are
made of wood.'

7. 'May I look at that knife near you, auntie? I mean the clean one.
Thank you!'

8. Then Dora wanted one to look at too; and they felt the edges softly
and found them very sharp. They looked at the blunt backs of the blades,
and then tried to read the maker's name.

9. 'There is no room to put the maker's name on a needle,' said Harry.
'But how do they get it on here?'

'It is stamped on when the blade is red-hot and rather soft.'

10. They could not make out how the handle was put on, so their aunt
went to the knife-box and got out an old knife that had lost its handle.
They saw that the blade had a long thin piece of iron at the end of it.

11. 'A long hole is made inside the handle, and this iron thing is put
into it, and made fast.'

So their uncle said, and then looked at the clock and saw that it was
time for him to go.


THE HEN.

[Illustration: Setting out for the Farm.]


    bas´-ket
    fetch
    friends
    fowls
    watch
    thought
    charge
    pair
    ban´-tams
    know
    proud
    peck´-ing
    greed´-y
    gray
    swal´-lowed
    laughed

1. The day after Dora and Harry came home, their mother gave them a
basket and sent them up to the farm to fetch eggs.

2. Rover went with them, and all three were glad to go, for they had
many friends at the farm.

3. There was the great dog, Watch, and there were the cart-horses and
the pony, the ducks and the fowls. And there were five girls and
boys--Mary, Tom, Johnny, Annie, and Kate.

4. When these five, and Watch, saw Harry, Dora, and Rover coming, they
ran down the lane to meet them. They were soon all in the farm-yard,
talking as fast as they could talk.

5. Two had to tell about their visit to Needle-town, and five about the
doings at the farm, so it was some time before the eggs were thought of.

6. Mary had charge of the eggs, and went every morning to look for new
ones.

'Since you went away,' she said, 'I have had a pair of bantams given me,
for my very own. Here they are!'

'What little things! and how very pretty!' cried Dora. 'Do they know
you, Mary?'

7. 'Yes; I feed them every day. Here comes the big black hen. She has
been laying an egg. See how proud she is! She calls out in that way to
let the rest know what she has done.'

8. 'Now she is pecking about for food,' said Harry.

Tom said that fowls were always eating.

'They are greedy things,' said Kate.

9. 'Oh, look at this gray hen!' said Harry, 'she picked up a bit of
stone just now and ate it! Does she know no better?'

10. 'It is not for food,' Mary told him; 'she takes it to grind up the
hard seeds she has swallowed. They all go into a strong little bag, and
the stones rub and press on the seeds.'

11. 'I never heard of such a thing! She keeps a mill inside to grind her
food!'

12. The others laughed, and then Mary went in to get some eggs. After
the basket was filled, the two children said good-bye to their friends,
and went home.


THE SPARROW.


    shoots
    spar´-rows
    steal
    fruit
    thou´-sand
    ba´-bies
    build
    spoil
    beaks
    ap´-ple
    blos´-som
    fruit
    clean
    thirst´-y
    wheat
    throw

1. 'Mother,' cried Harry, running in one day, 'Jack Denny says he shoots
sparrows!'

'I am very sorry to hear it. Why does he shoot them?'

'"They steal fruit and corn," he says. He wanted me to throw stones at
them!'

2. 'Well, you can tell him about some silly men who killed the sparrows
and other birds, and the next year their fruit and corn were eaten up by
grubs. Even the leaves on the trees were eaten.'

3. 'Is this true?'

'Quite true. They had to send for little birds from other places to live
in their fields and gardens. Do you know that a sparrow kills four
thousand grubs in one day when her babies are in the nest?

4. 'One wise man who grows fruit says that his best friends are the
sparrows, and he makes holes in the garden-walls for them to build in.
Their sharp eyes see the tiny things that would spoil the fruit, and
their sharp beaks nip them up at once.

[Illustration]

5. 'He loves to see sparrows in an apple-tree in blossom-time; he knows
they are saving the apples for him.'

'But Jack says he has seen them pecking at fruit.'

6. 'Yes, they like fruit, just as you and I do. But there would be no
fruit at all, if the birds did not eat the grubs.

7. 'The man I was telling you about puts nets over his trees when the
fruit begins to ripen. And I heard only the other day that it is a good
plan to put pans of clean fresh water close to the trees and bushes.
Then the birds will not go so often to the fruit. They are thirsty and
hot, poor things!

8. 'And there would be no corn, if the birds did not kill the
wheat-fly's grubs.'

9. When Harry heard all this, he made up his mind not to throw stones at
the sparrows, as Jack wanted him to do.


A DAY IN THE COUNTRY.


    but´-ter-flies
    mer´-ry
    gath´-ered
    broth´-er
    flow´-ers
    o-bliged´
    roamed
    scoured
    pleas´-ant
    cheese
    hedge
    ease
    brook´-let
    crys´-tal
    thrush
    mus´-ic

    1.  Where the bees and butterflies
          Skim the grassy down,
        Four merry little children
          Gathered from the town;

    2.  Ragged little Johnnie,
          And his brother Ben,
        With wild-flowers are laden,
          These merry little men.
        Kate and Mat have posies
          Of colours bright and gay,
        For Tim, their tiny brother,
          At home obliged to stay.

    3.  They have roamed the meadow,
          They have scoured the wood,
        Seeking nuts and blackberries,
          For their pleasant food.
        With their nuts and blackberries
          And bits of bread and cheese,
        On a mossy hedge-bank,
          Now they take their ease.

    4.  Drinking from the brooklet
          'Neath the hawthorn tree,
        Clear it runs as crystal,
          Fresh and bright and free.
        And the thrush sings loudly
          On the hawthorn spray,
        And the brooklet ever
          Makes music on its way.

[Illustration]


SOME HERBS.


    stream
    through
    grav´-el
    mar´-ket
    tea
    lett´-uce
    tongue
    mus´-tard
    pow´-der
    sprin´-kled
    flan´-nel
    car´-ried
    pars´-ley
    thyme
    herbs
    sage

1. A little stream ran through one of the farmer's fields. The water was
so clear that you could see the sand and gravel at the bottom, and in it
there grew plenty of water-cress.

[Illustration: Water-cress.]

2. Harry went one afternoon to help Johnny and Tom to pick it for
market, and brought a big bunch home for tea.

3. His mother had picked a lettuce from the garden, and some mustard and
cress, and they were all put on one plate.

'They bite my tongue,' said Dora, 'all but the lettuce. I like it best.'

4. 'And I like the biting,' said Harry. 'Why is this called mustard,
mother?'

'Because the yellow mustard comes from it. The seeds are ground to
powder.'

'And we eat the leaves. It is a useful plant.'

[Illustration: Lettuce.]

5. After tea, mother took some cress-seed and mustard-seed out of two
little packets. Then she cut up one or two corks, put them into a deep
plate, filled it with water, and sprinkled seed on the cork.

6. 'This is for you, Harry,' she said. 'You will soon have a little crop
of mustard and cress. And here is one for Dora!'

In Dora's plate she laid a bit of flannel, poured water on it, and sowed
seed. The children carried off their plates to a safe place, and thought
it would be fine fun to see roots and leaves come out of the tiny seeds.

7. Then mother called them into the garden to see her parsley. She told
them that hares and rabbits would come a long way to feed on a
parsley-bed if they could get at it.

8. Close by grew mint, sage, and thyme. 'All these are herbs,' she said.
'They are not like trees, are they?'

'No; they have no bark, no hard wood, and they are so small.'

[Illustration: Leaves of Mint, Parsley, Thyme, and Sage.]

9. Dora picked a mint-leaf, a parsley-leaf, a thyme-leaf, and a
sage-leaf, and laid them side by side. She wanted to see if they were
like each other. But when she looked at them she found that they were
not alike.


COFFEE.


    cof´-fee
    beans
    kneel´-ing
    chair
    win´-dow
    bus´-y
    stock´-ings
    ket´-tle
    rat´-tled
    coun´-try
    cher´-ry
    to-geth´-er
    blos´-som
    cov´-ered
    cloths
    ber´-ries

1. 'What is coffee, mother dear? Does it grow?'

2. It was Dora who asked this. She and Harry were putting away some
things that had come from the shop, and she was now filling a tin with
coffee-beans.

3. She was kneeling on a chair by the table in the window. Her mother
was busy mending stockings, and the cat and the dog were both asleep.
The kettle was singing, and all was cosy.

4. The coffee-beans rattled into the tin, and Dora picked one out and
looked at it.

When Harry heard Dora asking about it, he also put his hand in and took
a coffee-bean. It smelt very nice, he thought. So did Dora.

5. They found that it had a flat side and a round side.

'It humps up,' said Dora.

'See, I can put the flat side of mine against the flat side of yours,'
said Harry.

'They grew like that,' said mother.

'Oh, then, they did grow? They were alive once?'

[Illustration: Coffee branch with Berries.]

6. 'Yes; they were seeds of a plant that grows in a warm country, far
away from here. They once lived inside a berry.

'The berry was red like a cherry, and the seeds inside were held
together in a little bag.'

7. 'There must have been a flower before the berry came,' said Harry,
thinking of the pea-flower and its pod.

[Illustration: Coffee-flower.]

[Illustration: Berry.]

[Illustration: Seeds in Berry.]

'A very pretty white flower,' said his mother. 'They say that a
coffee-garden looks lovely in blossom-time, just as if it were all
covered with snow.

8. 'In two or three days the snow-like blossoms are gone, and the fruit
is left. When it is ripe, men put cloths under the trees, and shake it
down.'

9. 'I wish I could go and help!' said Harry. 'What comes next?'

'They pick up the berries, dry them in the sun, and get the beans out.
Then they send the beans over the sea in a ship. And here they are!'

[Illustration: Dora and Harry tearing up the old papers.]


PAPER.


    un-hap´-py
    should
    tea
    heels
    per-haps´
    clean
    school
    clean´-ing
    hearth
    laugh
    jok´-ing
    in-deed´
    tear
    boil
    through
    clev´-er

1. 'It is such a wet day, I don't know what to do!' said Harry, looking
very unhappy.

2. 'Are you tired of your drawing and painting?' asked his mother.

'Oh yes! And we have played at houses, and had the bricks out on the
floor, and now there is nothing to do, and it is not nearly tea-time
yet. Will you read to us, mother?'

3. 'Not just now. But if you would help me a little I should get on
faster, and then we might have a nice time before tea.'

