"There arn't no use in it,--not never," he said; and after that there
was no more about it. She went into the house and handed the bundle
to Fanny, and sat down on the bed and cried. On the following morning
Frank Fenwick received the following letter:--


   London, Sunday.

   HONOURED SIR,

   I told you that I would write if it came as I was going
   away, but I've been forced to go without writing. There
   was nothing to write with at the cottage. Mrs. Burrows
   and me had words, and I thought as she would rob me, and
   perhaps worse. She is a bad woman, and I could stand it no
   longer, so I just come up here, as there was nowhere else
   for me to find a place to lie down in. I thought I'd just
   write and tell you, because of my word; but I know it
   isn't no use.

   I'd send my respects and love to father and mother, if I
   dared. I did think of going over; but I know he'd kill me,
   and so he ought. I'd send my respects to Mrs. Fenwick,
   only that I isn't fit to name her;--and my love to sister
   Fanny. I've come away here, and must just wait till I die.

   Yours humbly, and most unfortunate,

   CARRY.

   If it's any good to be sorry, nobody can be more sorry
   than me, and nobody more unhappy. I did try to pray when
   you was gone, but it only made me more ashamed. If there
   was only anywhere to go to, I'd go.


CHAPTER XXIX.

THE BULL AT LORING.


Gilmore had told his friend that he would do two things,--that he
would start off and travel for four or five years, and that he would
pay a visit to Loring. Fenwick had advised him to do neither, but to
stay at home and dig and say his prayers. But in such emergencies
no man takes his friend's advice; and when Mr. Chamberlaine had
left him, Gilmore had made up his mind that he would at any rate go
to Loring. He went to church on the Sunday morning, and was half
resolved to tell Mrs. Fenwick of his purpose; but chance delayed her
in the church, and he sauntered away home without having mentioned
it. He let half the next week pass by without stirring beyond his
own ground. During those three days he changed his mind half a dozen
times; but at last, on the Thursday, he had his portmanteau packed
and started on his journey. As he was preparing to leave the house
he wrote one line to Fenwick in pencil. "I am this moment off to
Loring.--H. G." This he left in the village as he drove through to
the Westbury station.

He had formed no idea in his own mind of any definite purpose in
going. He did not know what he should do or what say when he got to
Loring. He had told himself a hundred times that any persecution of
the girl on his part would be mean and unworthy of him. And he was
also aware that no condition in which a man could place himself was
more open to contempt than that of a whining, pining, unsuccessful
lover. A man is bound to take a woman's decision against him, bear
it as he may, and say as little against it as possible. He is bound
to do so when he is convinced that a woman's decision is final; and
there can be no stronger proof of such finality than the fact that
she has declared a preference for some other man. All this Gilmore
knew, but he would not divest himself of the idea that there might
still be some turn in the wheel of fortune. He had heard a vague
rumour that Captain Marrable, his rival, was a very dangerous man.
His uncle was quite sure that the Captain's father was thoroughly
bad, and had thrown out hints against the son, which Gilmore in his
anxiety magnified till he felt convinced that the girl whom he loved
with all his heart was going to throw herself into the arms of a
thorough scamp. Could he not do something, if not for his own sake,
then for hers? Might it not be possible for him to deliver her from
her danger? What, if he should discover some great iniquity;--would
she not then in her gratitude be softened towards him? It was on
the cards that this reprobate was married already, and was about
to commit bigamy. It was quite probable that such a man should be
deeply in debt. As for the fortune that had been left to him, Mr.
Chamberlaine had already ascertained that that amounted to nothing.
It had been consumed to the last shilling in paying the joint debts
of the father and son. Men such as Mr. Chamberlaine have sources of
information which are marvellous to the minds of those who are more
secluded, and not the less marvellous because the information is
invariably false. Gilmore in this way almost came to a conviction
that Mary Lowther was about to sacrifice herself to a man utterly
unworthy of her, and he taught himself, not to think,--but to believe
it to be possible that he might save her. Those who knew him would
have said that he was the last man in the world to be carried away
by a romantic notion;--but he had his own idea of romance as plainly
developed in his mind as was ever the case with a knight of old, who
went forth for the relief of a distressed damsel. If he could do
anything towards saving her, he would do it, or try to do it, though
he should be brought to ruin in the attempt. Might it not be that at
last he would have the reward which other knights always attained?
The chance in his favour was doubtless small, but the world was
nothing to him without this chance.

He had never been at Loring before, but he had learned the way. He
went to Chippenham and Swindon, and then by the train to Loring. He
had no very definite plan formed for himself. He rather thought that
he would call at Miss Marrable's house,--call if possible when Mary
Lowther was not there,--and learn from the elder lady something of
the facts of the case. He had been well aware for many weeks past,
from early days in the summer, that old Miss Marrable had been in
favour of his claim. He had heard too that there had been family
quarrels among the Marrables, and a word had been dropped in his
hearing by Mrs. Fenwick, which had implied that Miss Marrable was
by no means pleased with the match which her niece Mary Lowther was
proposing to herself. Everything seemed to show that Captain Marrable
was a most undesirable person.

When he reached the station at Loring it was incumbent on him to go
somewhither at once. He must provide for himself for the night. He
found two omnibuses at the station, and two inn servants competing
with great ardour for his carpet bag. There were the Dragon and the
Bull fighting for him. The Bull in the Lowtown was commercial and
prosperous. The Dragon at Uphill was aristocratic, devoted to county
purposes, and rather hard set to keep its jaws open and its tail
flying. Prosperity is always becoming more prosperous, and the
allurements of the Bull prevailed. "Are you a going to rob the gent
of his walise?" said the indignant Boots of the Bull as he rescued
Mr. Gilmore's property from the hands of his natural enemy, as soon
as he had secured the entrance of Mr. Gilmore into his own vehicle.
Had Mr. Gilmore known that the Dragon was next door but one to Miss
Marrable's house, and that the Bull was nearly equally contiguous
to that in which Captain Marrable was residing, his choice probably
would not have been altered. In such cases, the knight who is to be
the deliverer desires above all things that he may be near to his
enemy.

He was shown up to a bedroom, and then ushered into the commercial
room of the house. Loring, though it does a very pretty trade as a
small town, and now has for some years been regarded as a thriving
place in its degree, is not of such importance in the way of business
as to support a commercial inn of the first class. At such houses the
commercial room is as much closed against the uninitiated as is a
first-class club in London. In such rooms a non-commercial man would
be almost as much astray as is a non-broker in Capel Court, or an
attorney in a bar mess-room. At the Bull things were a little mixed.
The very fact that the words "Commercial Room" were painted on the
door proved to those who understood such matters that there was a
doubt in the case. They had no coffee room at the Bull, and strangers
who came that way were of necessity shown into that in which the
gentlemen of the road were wont to relax themselves. Certain
commercial laws are maintained in such apartments. Cigars are not
allowed before nine o'clock, except upon some distinct arrangement
with the waiter. There is not, as a rule, a regular daily commercial
repast; but when three or more gentlemen dine together at five
o'clock, the dinner becomes a commercial dinner, and the commercial
laws as to wine, &c., are enforced, with more or less restriction as
circumstances may seem to demand. At the present time there was but
one occupant of the chamber to greet Mr. Gilmore when he entered,
and this greeting was made with all the full honours of commercial
courtesy. The commercial gentleman is of his nature gregarious, and
although he be exclusive to a strong degree, more so probably than
almost any other man in regard to the sacred hour of dinner, when
in the full glory of his confraternity, he will condescend, when
the circumstances of his profession have separated him from his
professional brethren, to be festive with almost any gentleman whom
chance may throw in his way. Mr. Cockey had been alone for a whole
day when Gilmore arrived, having reached Loring just twenty-four
hours in advance of our friend, and was contemplating the sadly
diminished joys of a second solitary dinner at the Bull, when fortune
threw this stranger in his way. The waiter, looking at the matter in
a somewhat similar light, and aware that a combined meal would be for
the advantage of all parties, very soon assisted Mr. Cockey in making
his arrangements for the evening. Mr. Gilmore would no doubt want to
dine. Dinner would be served at five o'clock. Mr. Cockey was going to
dine, and Mr. Gilmore, the waiter thought, would probably be glad to
join him. Mr. Cockey expressed himself as delighted, and would only
be too happy. Now men in love, let their case be ever so bad, must
dine or die. So much no doubt is not admitted by the chroniclers
of the old knights who went forth after their ladies; but the
old chroniclers, if they soared somewhat higher than do those
of the present day, are admitted to have been on the whole less
circumstantially truthful. Our knight was very sad at heart, and
would have done according to his prowess as much as any Orlando of
them all for the lady whom he loved,--but nevertheless he was an
hungered; the mention of dinner was pleasant to him, and he accepted
the joint courtesies of Mr. Cockey and the waiter with gratitude.

The codfish and beefsteak, though somewhat woolly and tough, were
wholesome; and the pint of sherry which at Mr. Cockey's suggestion
was supplied to them, if not of itself wholesome, was innocent
by reason of its dimensions. Mr. Cockey himself was pleasant and
communicative, and told Mr. Gilmore a good deal about Loring. Our
friend was afraid to ask any leading questions as to the persons in
the place who interested himself, feeling conscious that his own
subject was one which would not bear touch from a rough hand. He did
at last venture to make inquiry about the clergyman of the parish.
Mr. Cockey, with some merriment at his own wit, declared that the
church was a house of business at which he did not often call for
orders. Though he had been coming to Loring now for four years, he
had never heard anything of the clergyman; but the waiter no doubt
would tell them. Gilmore rather hesitated, and protested that he
cared little for the matter; but the waiter was called in and
questioned, and was soon full of stories about old Mr. Marrable. He
was a good sort of man in his way, the waiter thought, but not much
of a preacher. The people liked him because he never interfered with
them. "He don't go poking his nose into people's 'ouses like some
of 'em," said the waiter, who then began to tell of the pertinacity
in that respect of a younger clergyman at Uphill. Yes; Parson
Marrable had a relation living at Uphill; an old lady. "No; not
his grandmother." This was in answer to a joke on the part of Mr.
Cockey. Nor yet a daughter. The waiter thought she was some kind of
a cousin, though he did not know what kind. A very grand lady was
Miss Marrable, according to his showing, and much thought of by the
quality. There was a young lady living with her, though the waiter
did not know the young lady's name.

"Does the Rev. Mr. Marrable live alone?" asked Gilmore. "Well, yes;
for the most part quite alone. But just at present he had a visitor."
Then the waiter told all that he knew about the Captain. The most
material part of this was that the Captain had returned from London
that very evening;--had come in by the Express while the two "gents"
were at dinner, and had been taken to the Lowtown parsonage by the
Bull 'bus. "Quite the gentleman," was the Captain, according to the
waiter, and one of the "handsomest gents as ever he'd set his eyes
upon." "D---- him," said poor Harry Gilmore to himself. Then he
ventured upon another question. Did the waiter know anything of
Captain Marrable's father? The waiter only knew that the Captain's
father was "a military gent, and was high up in the army." From all
which the only information which Gilmore received was the fact that
the match between Marrable and Mary Lowther had not as yet become the
talk of the town. After dinner Mr. Cockey proposed a glass of toddy
and a cigar, remarking that he would move a bill for dispensing
with the smoking rule for that night only, and to this also Gilmore
assented. Now that he was at Loring he did not know what to do with
himself better than drinking toddy with Mr. Cockey. Mr. Cockey
declared the bill to be carried nem. con., and the cigars and toddy
were produced. Mr. Cockey remarked that he had heard of Sir Gregory
Marrable, of Dunripple Park. He travelled in Warwickshire, and was in
the habit, as he said, of fishing up little facts. Sir Gregory wasn't
much of a man, according to his account. The estate was small and,
as Mr. Cockey fancied, a little out at elbows. Mr. Cockey thought it
all very well to be a country gentleman and a "barrow knight," as he
called it, as long as you had an estate to follow; but he thought
very little of a title without plenty of stuff. Commerce, according
to his notions, was the back bone of the nation;--and that the corps
of travelling commercial gentlemen was the back bone of trade, every
child knew. Mr. Cockey became warm and friendly as he drank his
toddy. "Now, I don't know what you are, sir," said he.

"I'm not very much of anything," said Gilmore.

"Perhaps not, sir. Let that be as it may. But a man, sir, that feels
that he's one of the supports of the commercial supremacy of this
nation ain't got much reason to be ashamed of himself."

"Not on that account, certainly."

"Nor yet on no other account, as long as he's true to his employers.
Now you talk of country gentlemen."

"I didn't talk of them," said Gilmore.

"Well,--no,--you didn't; but they do, you know. What does a country
gentleman know, and what does he do? What's the country the better of
him? He 'unts, and he shoots, and he goes to bed with his skin full
of wine, and then he gets up and he 'unts and he shoots again, and
'as his skin full once more. That's about all."

"Sometimes he's a magistrate."

