"You look dressed up, Mother," announced Sunny Boy critically. "And
aren't we going to eat breakfast first?"

"First?" repeated Mrs. Horton, puzzled. "Oh, you mean I have my hat
and veil on. Well, dear, I believe you and I are going out right
after breakfast, and I won't have to come upstairs again. Ready,
Daddy?"

Soon they were in the dining room.

"Where are we going?" asked Sunny Boy, at the table and trying not to
feel queer when the waiter brought him his cantaloupe with the same
flourish with which he served Daddy sitting opposite.

"Why, I'm going to be very busy this morning," explained Mr. Horton,
"and I thought you and Mother might enjoy a little shopping trip. I'll
meet you here for lunch. Anything you specially want to buy, Sunny?"

"Some post cards," replied Sunny Boy promptly. "Ruth Nelson wants one
for her collection. And I could get Aunt Bessie a present."

"I'd wait till we're almost ready to go home for Aunt Bessie's
present," said Mr. Horton kindly. "You'll know better what you want
then. But get the post cards by all means this morning."

He gave Sunny Boy a bright new fifty-cent piece.

"I think we'll walk," decided Mrs. Horton, serving the golden brown
omelet carefully. "Put your money in your new purse, dear. Harry, have
you heard from Mr. Vernon yet?"

Left to himself while his parents talked business matters, Sunny Boy
looked about the dining room. He saw several children, little girls
and boys here and there, and a little girl across the room nodded and
smiled at him. Sunny Boy wondered where the boy who had carried up
their suitcases was.

"I didn't bring my hat," he mourned when breakfast was over. "Can I go
and get it, Mother?"

"I brought it down, dear," was the answer. "We're going right away.
Daddy has some telephoning to do, and we'll go on."

In the hotel lobby Sunny Boy saw the suitcase boy, as he had named
him, again. He didn't seem quite so severe as he had at night, and
when Sunny smiled at him he actually returned it with a grin that
showed a set of very white teeth.

"What a funny carriage," said Sunny Boy, calling Mother's attention to
a queer looking vehicle on two wheels and drawn by a bob-tailed horse,
which was the first thing he saw when they got out on the street.
"Look where the coachman is."

The driver was perched up on a little seat behind and held the reins
over the roof of the coach.

"That's a hansom cab," explained Mrs. Horton. "They were very popular
and stylish before the automobile came."

Privately Sunny Boy thought it wasn't very handsome, and the poor old
horse was no longer stylish if he had ever been, but there was little
time to think about hansom cabs, for just then Mother remarked:

"Here's the big store where they have such a wonderful toy
department."

It was a big store, much larger than any Sunny Boy had ever seen in
Centronia, and it seemed filled with people to him.

"Oh, Mother!" he stopped so short that several people nearly fell over
him, "what's that?"

"That" was a long shining moving thing on which people were being
wafted gently upward. It reminded Sunny Boy of the fairy tale he had
seen in the motion picture where the Wishing Girl who wanted to fly
was suddenly granted her wish.

"Where do they go?" Sunny Boy asked so loudly that a floor-man heard
and answered him.

"That's an escalator," he announced, much as one might say: "That's a
strawberry."

"It's a moving stairway, precious," added his mother. "I suppose you
want to ride on it. Well, first I must get Daddy some handkerchiefs,
for we never packed him a one. And we'll find out on which floor the
toys are, too."

Sunny Boy waited patiently while the handkerchiefs were bought, and
then while Mother chose a new veil, a pretty white one with black
dots.

"Here are the post-cards, Sunny," she said, turning into another
aisle. "See which ones you want for Ruth and Nelson."

"What do they say, Mother?" asked Sunny Boy, wishing he could read.
"May I send all the boys some?"

Mrs. Horton said he could, and she helped him select a dozen views of
New York, promising that he should print his name on each one and
that she would write whatever messages he wanted sent.

"You can look them over this afternoon," she suggested, "and see what
places you want to see first. That will be nice, won't it?"

"Yes, Mother," agreed Sunny Boy. "And now can we ride on the
alligator?"

"The escalator?" corrected Mother, laughing heartily. "Why yes, I
think we are about ready to do that. The girl at the handkerchief
counter told me the toys were on the sixth floor. Do you think you
want to ride that far on such a queer thing?"

[Illustration: "He had not supposed that a moving stairs went further
than one story" (Page 63)]

Sunny Boy was enraptured. He had not supposed that a moving stairway
went further than one story, and the thought of riding to the sixth
floor was bliss. He felt decidedly odd when he put his foot on the
moving platform at first, but ahead of him and behind him people were
serenely moving up, so he knew everything must be all right. When
he reached the top he slid off with such an unexpected bump that he
gave a startled cry and the girl who was there to see that no one was
hurt laughed at him.

"You said we could go to the sixth floor!" exclaimed Sunny Boy,
turning aggrievedly to Mother who had followed him.

"And so we can, dear, but not without stopping," explained Mrs.
Horton. "See, we turn here and there is another escalator. At every
floor we get off one and then on another."

Sunny Boy thought this was absolutely the most delightful way of going
upstairs he had ever tried. He wondered why the stores at home didn't
have moving stairways, and he resolved to come down the whole six
flights the same way. He was astonished when the time came to go home
and he found that the escalators didn't carry people down, but only
up.

"I see a horse!" he shouted, when they were half way up the last
stairway.

They stepped off onto a floorful of toys that reminded Sunny Boy of
Christmas and birthdays and Santa Claus all rolled into one. A tank of
water in which boats were sailing caught his eye.

"I wish I'd brought my boat," he remarked, standing on tiptoe to see
over the edge. "See the motor-boat, Mother? It's just like Captain
Franklin's."

Captain Franklin was the man who had found Sunny Boy when he was
drifting out to sea in a rowboat that summer, as related in the book
called "Sunny Boy at the Seashore."

"If you want to see them race," said the young man in charge of the
boats, "I'll wind another up for you."


CHAPTER V

SUNNY BOY LOSES HIS ROOM


Of course Sunny Boy wanted to see the boats race, and he hung
breathlessly over the edge of the tank while the good-natured clerk
wound up the motor-boats and sent them racing across several times.

"Come, dear," Mrs. Horton urged at last. "You haven't seen the trains
yet, nor the rocking-horses. And Daddy will be waiting for us at one,
you know."

So Sunny Boy, very reluctantly, thanked the man in charge of the boats
and walked down the aisle to see the mechanical trains.

Goodness! the trains were more fascinating than the boats. There were
miles and miles of track, and little colored signal lights, and
stations and tunnels and freight and coal and passenger trains, with
freight and coal and passengers to go in them.

"All running!" marveled Sunny Boy. "Just like Christmas!"

Mrs. Horton was trying to pull him past this absorbing counter, for
they really had a great deal more to see and the time was getting
short, when Sunny gave a shout.

"Mother, look! There's a runaway engine! Whee, a wreck!"

Sure enough, an engine with no cars attached was coming rapidly down
grade toward a passenger train stopped at one of the stations. Sunny
Boy's voice had drawn a number of the shoppers, and a small crowd
gathered to see what would happen. The clerk had left the counter and
gone out to an aisle table to have a floor-man sign his book, and
there was no one about to prevent the wreck.

Smash! with a truly thrilling noise the engine crashed into the train
and the passengers must have, as the newspapers say, "received a
severe shaking up."

"Oh, gee!" breathed Sunny Boy, and his sigh was echoed by the
grown-ups.

People looked at one another and smiled.

"Nobody hurt!" announced the clerk, who had hurried back when he heard
the noise of the collision. "I said that switch needed overhauling
yesterday. Guess I'll shut off the current and get a repair man to
come up."

As there would be no more moving trains for the present, Sunny Boy was
willing to go to see the rocking-horses. He had a fine time, too, for
the clerk lifted him up on the largest one, and very high from the
ground Sunny felt.

But it was the tin automobile that captured his heart.

"Oh, Mother!" he said when he found it, "it's just like our car, two
lamps and all."

"It is pretty nice," admitted Mrs. Horton. "We'll have to see what
Daddy says about one when we go home. You are getting too old for the
kiddie car, aren't you? How does this one run, dear?"

Sunny Boy showed her, and explained how the brakes worked, and they
had an interesting half-hour comparing the different kinds of cars and
learning how much they cost. Then Mother discovered that it was time
to go back to the hotel if they were to meet Daddy promptly.

"I could stay here," suggested Sunny Boy, his arm about a stuffed
camel that was almost large enough for him to ride. His jaw went up
and down if you poked it right, and he had two most realistic humps.
"You could go and see Daddy and then come back and get me."

"But, precious, what would Daddy say? He'll want to see you. And there
will be many other times for you to come over and visit the toys.
Besides, think, Sunny--suppose he wanted to take you riding on the
Fifth Avenue bus?"

That settled it. Sunny Boy was ready to go immediately. Anyway, he
realized that he had a queer feeling he couldn't just name, but he
suspected that maybe he was hungry.

They found Mr. Horton waiting for them in their room, and Mrs. Horton
had so much to tell him that Sunny Boy had to wait his chance to ask a
most important question.

"Daddy," he began when his father finished telling the waiter what to
bring, and after they were in the dining room and seated at the table,
"Daddy, do you think p'haps we could go riding on the bus?"

Mr. Horton smiled.

"Well, I'll tell you," he said, glancing at his watch. "Mother wants
to lie down and rest a bit this afternoon and I have to meet some men
within an hour. But if you are a good boy, I'll take you when I come
back. That will be about three o'clock. How'll that do?"

Sunny Boy thought that would be very nice, and he ate his luncheon
contentedly. Afterward he and Mother went upstairs, and Daddy had to
go and keep his appointment.

"Now you see how much company we are for each other," said Mother, as
she changed her dress and put on a pretty blue dressing gown. "With
such a busy Daddy, wouldn't we be lonesome here in New York all
alone?"

Sunny Boy nodded solemnly.

"Could I paint pictures?" he asked hopefully.

"Of course. You'll find your paint box and a pad of paper in that grey
box in the trunk tray. Mother's going to lie down just a second. Pull
the little table over to the light, dear, and you'll have a nice,
quiet time," directed Mrs. Horton.

Sunny Boy dragged the table over nearer to the window, found his water
color paints and the paper and set to work to paint a picture. He
talked a steady stream to Mother at first but, as he grew interested
in his work, he forgot to talk.

"There now!" he said softly, when he had finished three pictures. "I
think they're good. I'll show 'em to Mother."

But Mother was fast asleep. Sunny Boy tiptoed carefully around the
bed, but she did not wake up.

"I don't want to paint any more," decided Sunny Boy. "What'll I do?"

He remembered the bell-boy they had seen first the night before. He
would go and visit him.

Sunny Boy opened the door into the corridor carefully, so as not to
disturb Mother, and closed it carefully behind him. The halls were
lighted, though it was daytime, and the thick carpet was so soft that
Sunny couldn't hear the noise of his own feet.

"Where 'bouts," he speculated aloud, "do they have the stairs in this
house?"

He hunted for several minutes, but no stairs could he find. Then he
decided to go back to Mother, and he couldn't find the room! He had
made so many turnings in the halls that he was hopelessly lost.

"Oh, dear!" sighed poor Sunny Boy. "New York is such a big place!"

A light down the corridor attracted his attention now. The elevator,
of course! Why hadn't he thought of that? He would find the bell-boy
downstairs. He remembered that was where he had seen him at breakfast
time.

The elevator boy took him downstairs without asking any questions and
let him off at the first floor.

"This looks somehow different," puzzled Sunny Boy, standing where the
elevator left him.

He didn't know it, but it was another elevator, in a different part of
the building from the one his father and mother took down to the
dining room. Sunny Boy had never been downstairs alone, and he felt
decidedly shy.

"Hello, kid, what you lost?" asked one of the bell boys, swinging past
him.

"Nothing," murmured Sunny Boy.

"Are you lost, dear?" asked a lady, stopping on her way to the
elevator. She was old and lame and walked with a cane. A maid, with a
curly black dog under her arm, walked beside her.

Sunny shook his head. How could he be lost with a mother in the same
building with him? Of course he wasn't lost!

He sat down in a leather chair to consider. He didn't know the name of
the bell boy he wanted to see, and at any minute his father might come
back and want to take him for a ride on the bus. Sunny Boy made up
his mind that he would try to find his room and look for the bell boy
another time. He waited till a friendly-looking man came hurrying by
where he sat.

"Please," he stuttered nervously, "how do you find--"

"Ask the clerk at the desk!" snapped the man, who wasn't cross, but
only in a hurry to make a train.

Sunny Boy looked about for the desk.

"Go 'round there," directed the elevator boy when he ventured to ask
him. Then he clashed his door shut with a bang and went sailing up in
his little car.

Sunny obediently wandered around a turn in the corridor. He saw only a
counter, but he guessed that to be the desk. He remembered it was
where his father had gone to arrange for their rooms the night before.

"Please," he began, standing on tiptoes and grasping the edge of the
counter with both hands. "Please, where is our room?"

"Eh, what?" demanded the startled clerk, bending down to see the small
person speaking to him. "Your room? Have you lost your key?"

"Haven't any key," explained Sunny Boy gravely. "I came out, and when
I went to go back I couldn't find our door."

"All right, we'll fix you up," promised the clerk. "Jack, lift this
young man up so I won't have to strain my voice."

A bell-boy lifted Sunny to the counter, and he sat there comfortably,
sure that the clerk would solve his troubles for him.

"What floor are you on?" asked the clerk capably.

"I don't know," confessed Sunny Boy.

"Well, then, give us your name."

"Sunny Boy," announced Sunny cheerfully.

The clerk laughed, and the bell-boys standing about snickered.

"No Sunny Boy registered," announced the clerk, running his finger
down the register, where hotel guests write their names. "Haven't you
any other name you use when you're traveling around?"

"Oh, no," insisted Sunny Boy. "Daddy and Mother always call me
that--just Sunny Boy."

"But you have to have a regular name," protested the clerk. "When you
go to school--Oh, you don't go to school! Well, what is Daddy's name?
Your last name must be the same as his."

Then Sunny Boy understood.

"Daddy's name is Harry Horton, and I am named for Grandpa, Arthur
Bradford Horton," he announced rapidly. "An' we live in Centronia."

"Now you're talking," said the clerk approvingly. "Here you are." He
read from the big register: "'Mr. and Mrs. Harry Horton and son'.
You're son. And your room is 1038. Jack, you take him up, will you?
Is any one there, or have they gone out and left you alone?"

Sunny Boy explained that his mother was lying down, and Jack lifted
him from the counter and went over with him to the elevator.

"He lost his room," he told the elevator boy as they shot up. "Didn't
you bring him down?"

"Must have come down in one of the other cars," said the elevator boy.
"I don't remember him. Here's your floor."

Jack showed Sunny Boy which was the door to his room, and, still
grinning at the idea of losing one's way in a hotel, he went back.

"Why, Sunny dear, where have you been?" Mrs. Horton was sitting up in
bed as Sunny Boy came in. "I woke up a minute ago and thought you were
still painting. Then I spoke to you and found you weren't in the room.
Where did you go?"

"I got lost," said Sunny Boy placidly.

He told his mother what had happened and she laughed.

"Here's Daddy," she announced, as some one rapped on the door. "Come
in, Harry. Sunny Boy's adventures in New York have already begun."

So Mr. Horton heard the story.

"Well, well, we'll have to go out for our ride, or there's no knowing
what will happen next," he said jokingly. "Want to come, Olive?"

Mrs. Horton answered that she didn't want to dress hurriedly and that
she would rather wait for them and write a letter or two, perhaps.

"I'll help you write your post cards in the morning," she promised
Sunny Boy. "Harriet will be expecting a card from you every day till
it comes."

Sunny Boy and his father went out of the hotel and walked over toward
Fifth Avenue. The trolley cars and automobiles and crowds of people
seemed to Sunny Boy to be hopelessly mixed. He held tightly to Daddy's
hand when they crossed the street, and he was very grateful to the
tall policeman that made the traffic stop while the people surged
safely across.

"Up top, you know, Daddy," he urged, trotting along, trying to keep
step with his father's long stride.

"All right, up top we'll go," said Mr. Horton, smiling. "I thought
we'd walk around to the Pennsylvania station and get a bus there. We
may want to go home from there instead of the way we came."


CHAPTER VI

ON TOP OF THE BUS


The Pennsylvania Station is a beautiful building, but Sunny Boy hardly
saw it, so eager was he to climb up the winding stairs on one of the
busses.

"Are we going up, or down?" he chattered to Daddy, as they stood on
the curb.

"Over first," explained Mr. Horton, "and then up. I thought we might
go as far as Grant's Tomb; then you can see the river, and to-morrow,
if Mother likes to, we will go down and through the Arch at Washington
Square."

A bus came up and stopped presently, and Sunny Boy was afraid there
would be no room left for him, so many people seemed to want to ride
outside and enjoy the fine September afternoon.

"Careful, now," cautioned Mr. Horton, as he guided Sunny Boy up the
narrow, steep stairs. "They will start before you get to the top."

Sure enough, the bus did start, but Sunny Boy had a firm grip on the
iron railing. He thought it great fun to be going upstairs on a moving
automobile, and when he reached the top, the very first seat, away up
front, was vacant!

"P'haps I'd better take my hat off," he suggested, as he snuggled into
the seat next the railing and Daddy sat down beside him. "The colored
boy took my first one, you know, and if I lost this one Mother might
not like it."

"Indeed she might not," agreed Mr. Horton. "Neither should I, because
new hats cost money. You'll be more comfortable holding it, anyway."

Sunny Boy took it off then, and held it in his lap. When the conductor
came for their fares, he held out a funny-looking thing and said they
were to put the money in that.

"Let me," begged Sunny Boy.

Daddy gave him two ten-cent pieces, and he put them in the little slit
and heard the bell ring twice.

Sunny Boy had never been so happy. He liked to look down from the high
top of the bus and watch the motors and the people in the street. At
nearly every cross street they had to stop while traffic went the
other way, and often there would be four or five automobiles abreast.
Once Sunny, looking down, saw a little boy in a beautiful car looking
up at him. Sunny Boy waved, and the little boy smiled delightedly and
waved back. Then the whistle blew and the car shot far ahead of the
slow-running bus.

"Where are we going now?" demanded Sunny, as their bus turned.

"Wait and see," smiled Mr. Horton.

And in a minute Sunny Boy saw on one side of him a row of handsome
houses, on the other a strip of cement walk and a green park, and
beyond that water that sparkled in the sun.

"This is Riverside Drive," said Mr. Horton. "See, Son, those are
battleships anchored out there."

Sunny Boy stood up to see better, while Daddy steadied him. He had
never seen a battleship before except in pictures.

"What funny wire cages," he puzzled. "And see the little boat going
out to them, Daddy."

"Those wire 'cages' as you call them, are masts," explained his
father. "And the little boat is probably carrying some officers or
sailors out to their ship. That is as near as the battleships can
come to the land, you see."

Sunny Boy wanted to know why, and Mr. Horton told him that the water
wasn't deep enough close in shore.

"If you want to see a battleship better, perhaps go aboard one, we
must visit the Navy Yard before we go home," he remarked.

Sunny Boy was sure he would like that.

The battleships were left far behind now, and a man and woman riding
horseback attracted Sunny's attention. He thought it must be fun to
have a horse and go riding along such a beautiful drive.

"I could roller skate and Harriet could knit like that," he suggested,
pointing to a boy skating merrily up and down while a white-capped
nurse sat on a bench and knitted comfortably.

"Yes, you could," said his father. "But since Harriet isn't here,
you'll have to write her about what you've seen instead. We get off
at the next corner, Sunny; press the little black button there by your
hand."

Sunny Boy pressed the button which rang the bell to tell the bus
driver to stop, and he and Mr. Horton walked to the stairs. Sunny was
very glad to have his father go first, because he discovered that
coming downstairs was more ticklish than going up. He had a feeling
that he was going to pitch forward on his yellow head.

However, they both reached the ground safely, and, his hand in
Daddy's, Sunny Boy crossed over and stood at the flight of broad steps
that led to Grant's Tomb.

"Do you know who General Grant was, dear?" asked Daddy.

Sunny Boy nodded his head.

"Grandpa told me," he said confidently. "He was in the Civil War."

"Yes, he was a general in the Civil War, and later president of the
United States," assented Mr. Horton. "And this beautiful building was
given by the people who loved and admired him, as a memorial."

They went up the wide steps and entered the rotunda. The light was
subdued, and at first Sunny Boy could see nothing. Then he saw several
people, the men with their hats in their hands, looking down what he
thought was a deep well.

Daddy lifted him up so that he might look over, and there, down on the
marble floor, he saw two American flags draped over two oblong stone
slabs and a wreath on each.

"Mrs. Grant is buried here, too," said Mr. Horton.

The old, battle-stained flags and war mementos in the two little
alcoves off the rotunda would have interested Sunny's Grandpa Horton,
who had seen some of those same flags carried on the battle fields,
but one couldn't expect Sunny Boy to care much about them. When they
came out and stood once more on the steps in the sunshine, he saw
something that interested him more.

"Daddy!" he raised his voice in excitement. "What are those funny
boats'? Over there--see? There's two of 'em!"

A young man standing near heard and turned with a grin.

"Where did you hail from, kid?" he asked curiously. "Haven't you ever
seen a ferryboat before?"

Sunny Boy hated to be laughed at, so he said nothing.

"We're inland folks," explained Mr. Horton, who didn't seem to mind
the young man's smile. "Out where we live no rivers connect our
cities. My little boy has seen his first ferryboat to-day."

"I've seen _boats_," said Sunny Boy with dignity. "I saw them down at
the seashore. But not like those. What do they use 'em for?"

The young man laughed again.

"Excuse me," he apologized. "But I've crossed the river every morning
for ten years on the ferry, and it strikes me as funny to find some
one who doesn't know what a ferryboat is. They carry people and horses
and automobiles, kid."

"Horses?" repeated Sunny Boy incredulously. "Come on, Daddy, let's go
ride on one."

"That's the Fort Lee Ferry. Nothing much to see," advised the young
man, who was good-natured if he did laugh at folks. "Better go down
town and take the Twenty-third Street, if you want a nice sail."

"Thank you, we will, when we do go," replied Mr. Horton. "But, Sunny,
you and I must be getting back to Mother. She will be wondering what
has become of us. See if you can signal a bus."

[Illustration: "Sunny Boy was just the least little bit afraid when
they went under the elevator tracks"]

Sunny Boy stopped a bus very nicely, and again they found a seat on
the top. Sunny Boy was just the least little bit afraid when they went
under the elevated tracks--they didn't have elevated trains in
Centronia--and he hoped nothing would drop on him.

"What a lot of things there are to ride on in New York," he confided
to Daddy. "Busses, an' trains up high, and ferryboats, and automobiles
and trolley cars like at home."

"And another kind of train you don't know about yet," said Mr. Horton.
"What is it? Oh, I'm going to let you find out for yourself. You seem
to be developing a liking for riding about on all kinds of
transportation."

"Well, I would like to go on a ferryboat," admitted Sunny Boy, "an'
maybe on the elevated. An' the other kind of train that I don't know
about. And that's all."

They found Mrs. Horton dressed for dinner and awaiting them, and
while she helped Sunny to put on a clean suit and brush his hair, he
told her about their trip and what they had seen on Riverside Drive.

"And Daddy says if you want to, we can ride on the bus to-morrow," he
finished. "We can go and see an arch."

Mr. Horton, who had been reading some letters that had come for him
while he and Sunny were out, looked up from the little book in which
he wrote the things he wanted to remember.

"I'm sorry, but you and Mother will have to amuse each other
to-morrow," he announced. "I shall be busy all day. But I think you
can manage to have a pleasant time, and perhaps the next day I can go
about with you."

"Of course we'll have a happy day," promised Mrs. Horton. "Don't worry
about us, Daddy Horton. We know you are on a business trip. I think
Sunny Boy and I will plan to spend the day in Central Park."

"Yes, let's," agreed Sunny Boy enthusiastically.

He had not the smallest idea what Central Park was like, but he was
very sure that he would like it. He liked everything that he had seen
in New York so far.

As the Hortons came out of the dining room, and Mr. Horton stopped to
buy a paper, Sunny Boy saw the bell-boy he had tried to visit that
afternoon.

"Hello," he remarked conversationally. "I was looking for you this
afternoon."

"Were you the kid that got lost?" chuckled the bell-boy. "Jack said to
me: 'Frank, there was a boy couldn't find his own room this afternoon,
can you believe it?' And what have you been doing with yourself all
day?"

Sunny Boy recounted his adventures, and announced that the next day he
and Mother were going to Central Park.

"Be sure you go in the Monkey House," counseled Frank. "I tell you
those monkeys are the cutest things you ever saw. Almost human, I'll
say. Like monkeys?"

"Yes in pictures," said Sunny Boy. "And those the organ grinders have.
Here comes Daddy."

Before he went to sleep that night Sunny Boy thought of something he
wanted to ask Frank.

"I will the next time I see him," he muttered drowsily.

He was wondering why he never put his cap on straight, but always wore
it a little over one ear.


CHAPTER VII

IN CENTRAL PARK


The next morning Sunny Boy and Mother started early for Central Park.
Much to Sunny's delight they took a bus, and though they did not have
very far to go, Mother climbed up to the top with him. When they got
off at the Park gate they found carriages waiting for those who wanted
to drive around the park.

"I think we should like that, don't you?" asked Mrs. Horton. "I'm sure
we can not hope to walk all over this great place in one day. Shall we
drive, dear?"

"Let's," nodded Sunny Boy. "I like that fat, black horse, Mother."

So they got into the carriage pulled by the fat, black horse and
driven by a young man so tall that he couldn't sit up straight in the
seat or his head would have hit the roof of the carriage.

"Is Central Park bigger than Brookside?" Sunny Boy asked, as they
drove over a well-kept road past the greenest of green lawns and
bright flower beds. Brookside was the name of Grandpa Horton's farm.

"How big is Brookside?" asked the driver, slapping the reins to make
his horse go faster.

"Oh, ever so big," Sunny Boy assured him. "Seventy-nine acres, Daddy
said."

"Well, you could put Brookside right down in Central Park and never
see it," announced the driver complacently. "This park has eight
hundred and seventy-nine acres."

"Gee!" murmured Sunny Boy.

He was silent for a few moments, trying to imagine how large the park
must be.

"What a funny way to hay," he remarked, as they came up to a horse
tramping steadily over the grass pulling a machine that looked
something like a mower. "Grandpa didn't do it that way."

"They're cutting the grass," explained the driver of the carriage.
"Guess you haven't seen one of those machines. If they had only a lawn
mower like the one your father uses on your lawn at home, you know,
the grass would never get cut in one summer."

"Can't we get out?" Mrs. Horton asked next. "I'd like to go up and see
the reservoirs."

"Sure you can," was the quick response. "I'll wait right here for you.
Suppose you'll want to go in the snake house, too, and see the
menagerie and the monkeys."

"Frank said to see the monkeys, didn't he, Mother?" said Sunny Boy.
"But he didn't say anything about snakes."

They were out of the carriage now and walking toward the reservoirs.

"No, and I don't believe we want to see the snakes," returned Mrs.
Horton. "I don't like them very much, and if you don't care I'd much
rather see the monkeys. They can do so many funny tricks."

Sunny Boy didn't care about snakes, and he forgot them right away when
he saw the gallons of water, spread out like a smooth lake.

"Is it all to drink?" he wanted to know. "Can't they go swimming in
it, Mother? Where does it come from?"

"I'm afraid I don't know where the water comes from," admitted Mrs.
Horton, "but we know it must be piped from miles and miles away. Think
of all the thirsty people in New York who are glad to get a cool,
clean drink this warm day."

"Wouldn't they like to swim in it?" insisted Sunny Boy.

"My, no, precious! No one must swim in water that is to be drunk, you
must know that. Now we'll go back to our carriage, or the driver will
be tired of waiting."

When they came to the menagerie and the monkey house, Mrs. Horton
decided not to keep the carriage standing. She did not know how long
they would be, and she knew that they could easily get back to the
street and car lines again. She paid the driver and he drove off,
whistling merrily.

"Let's see the bears, first," suggested Sunny Boy.

And they did. Sunny Boy pressed so close to the cages of the animals
that his mother pulled him back repeatedly. They saw lions and tigers
and bears and elephants and more queer and curious animals than Sunny
Boy dreamed existed.

"I like the bears best," he told Mother, as they came away. "The polar
bear looked just like our fur rug at home. And he had cakes of ice to
sleep on."

"That is because he is used to cold weather," explained Mrs. Horton.
"The polar bear isn't well or happy unless his den is nice and cold."

In the monkey house Sunny Boy was fascinated by one little black-faced
monkey that kept running up to the top of his cage, swinging across,
and then hanging by his tail at the other end before he dropped with a
bang that would shake any one else's teeth loose.

"Doesn't he get a headache?" asked Sunny Boy aloud.

A boy who had been standing with his nose pressed against the cage
bars, a rather shabby-looking boy with big holes in his tan stockings,
answered without turning around.

"He's been doing that for the last hour," said the boy. "I think some
one was mean to him early this morning and he is just mad."

Sunny moved closer to the other boy.

"You _are_ Joe Brown, aren't you?" he asked, puzzled.

The boy turned sharply, and they saw that it was Joe Brown. A shabbier
Joe Brown than he had been on the train, and with a pinched hungry
look on his face that went to Mrs. Horton's heart.

"Did you find your aunt, Joe?" she asked kindly. "And do you like New
York?"

Joe snatched off his cap awkwardly when Mrs. Horton spoke to him, and
he tried to stuff it into his pocket now as he shuffled his feet and
mumbled that he liked New York pretty well. Plainly he was not
comfortable.

"Aunt Annabell moved away," he explained. "I went to the house, but
Italians were living in it and they didn't know where she'd moved to.
But I guess I can find her. Folks don't drop out of sight in New
York."

"But where are you staying?" said Mrs. Horton. "What do you do? Can't
I or Mr. Horton help you, Joe? A boy alone in a great city like this
might need a friend, you know."

Joe Brown scuffled his feet uneasily.

"I'm all right," he insisted.

"Well, at least come and have some lunch with Sunny and me," invited
Mrs. Horton. "Perhaps you can tell us some place to go? And then come
up to the hotel with us this afternoon and we'll see if Mr. Horton
can't find out something about your aunt."

Joe knew of a place where lunch could be had, and he and Mrs. Horton
and Sunny Boy were soon seated at a white-topped little table eating
sandwiches and milk. Joe ate as though he were half-starved, and Mrs.
Horton pretended to be hungrier than she was so that he would not be
afraid to eat all the sandwiches he wanted.

"Has Sunny seen the carrousel?" Joe demanded, when the ice-cream had
been brought and Sunny was deep in the blissful employment of
scooping spoonfuls out of the white mound before him.

"No, I haven't," answered Sunny quickly.

