  Hail and Farewell, dear Brother of the Pen,
  Maker of sunshine for the minds of men,
  Lord of bright cheer and master of our hearts--
  What plaint is fit when such a friend departs?
  Not with mere ceremonial words of woe
  Come we to mourn--you would not have it so;
  But with our memories stored with joyous fun,
  Your constant largesse till your life was done,
  With quips, that flashed through frequent twists and bends,
  Caught from the common intercourse of friends;
  And gay allusions gayer for the zest
  Of one who hurt no friend and spared no jest.
  What arts were yours that taught you to indite
  What all men thought, but only you could write!
  That wrung from gloom itself a fleeting smile;
  Rippled with laughter but refrained from guile;
  Led you to prick some bladder of conceit
  Or trip intrusive folly's blundering feet,
  While wisdom at your call came down to earth,
  Unbent awhile and gave a hand to mirth!

  You too had pondered mid your jesting strife
  The deeper issues of our mortal life;
  Guided to God by faith no doubt could dim
  You fought your fight and left the rest to Him,
  Content to set your heart on things above
  And rule your days by laughter and by love.
  Rest in our memories! You are guarded there
  By those who knew you as you lived and were.
  There mid our Happy Thoughts you take your stand,
  A sun-girt shade, and light that shadow-land.

R.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Captain_ (_newly attached_). "ER--IS THERE ANYTHING YOU'D
LIKE ME TO GET ON TO, SIR?"

_Major_ (_regimental economist_). "AH, YES! I WISH YOU'D JUST LOOK AFTER
THE BONES AND DRIPPING."]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHILDREN'S TALES FOR GROWN-UPS.

VIII.

SOUR GRAPES.

"I have no doubt," said the fox, after a last futile attempt to reach them,
"that the grapes are sour;" and he went off slowly down the hill.

At the bottom of the hill a barrel was lying, and the philosopher was
filled with new hope. "The very thing," he said to himself.

He put his shoulder to the barrel and pushed and panted and panted and
pushed till he got it nearly to the top. But it broke away at the last
moment and rolled down the hill.

He rolled it up again and again perseveringly. He tried as often as
Sisyphus. He tried indeed just once more, because at last he succeeded and
the barrel was placed on end under the vine.

Joyfully he climbed on the barrel and bit at the fruit.

Then he jumped down with a bark of disgust.

The grapes _were_ sour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mutiny aboard a German U-boat, aided by the demolarizing effects of a
    submarine bomb, made the diver a prize of the British Admiralty and her
    crew the willing prisoners of a patrol boat."--_Ottawa Evening
    Journal._

This kind of bomb--the demolariser--is just what we want to draw the
enemy's teeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE END OF THE THOUSAND-AND-ONE NIGHTS.

THE OFFICIAL STORY-TELLER (_to Wilhelm-al-Raschid_). "I CAN'T THINK OF ANY
FRESH FAIRY TALES. WOULD YOU LIKE A TRUE ONE NOW?"

[April 30th was the thousand-and-first day of the War.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, April 23rd._--Any intelligent foreigner who obtained admission to
the Distinguished Strangers' Gallery in the expectation that on the
feast-day of our national saint and the birthday of our national poet he
would be privileged to listen to a series of eloquent speeches upon
patriotism, delivered by our most accomplished orators, must have been
deeply disappointed. The one subject that the House of Commons seems to
care about is food.

The CONTROLLER has hit one section of the House in its tenderest portion.
Those Members who make their mid-day meal off tea and bread-and-butter
think it very hard that they should be allowed no more bread than others
who take the full luncheon. On their behalf Mr. LONDON, like _The
Carpenter_, said, "Give us another slice." But, despite a slight facial
resemblance to _The Walrus_, Colonel LOCKWOOD was inexorable.

The late Mr. JUSTIN MCCARTHY was once described by his ex-leader as "a nice
old gentleman for a quiet tea-party." If anyone had said that a Sunday-
School treat would furnish the appropriate _milieu_ for that ardent
Pacifist, Mr. JOWETT, I should, until this afternoon, have been inclined to
agree with him. But it is evident that his acquaintance with Sunday-School
treats is purely academic, for in requesting the FOOD CONTROLLER to remove
the ban lately placed upon them he spoke of the treat as a "simple meal,
consisting of _a_ bun and tea only." The italic is our own comment on this
estimate of the capacity of our brave tea-fighters.

_Tuesday, April 24th._--Those Members to whom their constituents have given
notice to quit at the next election, and who have recently been somewhat
depressed by the thought of the impending loss to the nation of their
valuable services, are plucking up heart again now that the life of
Parliament is to be once more extended. Mr. KING, for example, was in his
best form this afternoon. It goes without saying that his advice to the
Board of Agriculture to set a good example to the country by sending their
racehorses out to grass was well received, for any reference to the
Government stud is equivalent to the "Pass the mustard" of the established
humourist. His real success came when Mr. BONAR LAW denied that Sir GEORGE
MCCRAE had been appointed Chief Whip to the Government. Mr. KING drawled
out, "As _The Times_ has stated that this gentleman was so appointed will
its foreign circulation be stopped?" Then the laughter came spontaneous and
loud.

[Illustration: _Hodge._ "I'M TO BE QUEEN OF THE MAY."]

Another little joke which tickled the House was, I suspect, the outcome of
a conspiracy. At least I cannot understand why Mr. OUTHWAITE should have
been so anxious to know the amount of ginger imported into this country
last year, unless it was to afford Mr. MACVEAGH an opportunity of asking,
when the amount, some three thousand tons, had been announced, "How is it
that the new Government has got none of it?"

There is a growing tendency on the part of Ministers, when charged with the
conduct of a Bill, to speak of it as "a poor thing not mine own." They
imagine, I suppose, that an air of deprecation, not to say depreciation, is
likely to commend the measure to an audience in which party-spirit is
supposed to be defunct.

[Illustration: VISCOUNT CHAPLIN MAKING NOTES ON THE MILLENNIUM FROM THE
PEERS' GALLERY.]

At first it seemed as if Mr. PROTHERO, in moving the second reading of the
Corn Production Bill, was going to adopt the modern attitude of
_insouciance_, for he spoke of it as "bristling with controversial points"
(as if it were intended to promote the growth of quite another kind of
corn), and observed that he himself had originally been opposed to State
interference with agriculture. But he soon warmed to his work, and spoke
with all the zeal of the convert. Among his most appreciative listeners
were the occupants of the Peers' Gallery--the Duke of MARLBOROUGH, who has
transformed the sword of Blenheim into a ploughshare, and Viscount CHAPLIN,
to whom the announcement of State bounties for wheat-growing seems like the
arrival of the Millennium.

Another ex-Minister of Agriculture was, to put it mildly, less
enthusiastic. I should be doing Mr. RUNCIMAN little injustice to say that
for the moment the politician in him rose superior to the patriot. If after
the War the old party-quarrels are to break out again with all their fatal
futility I can imagine that Liberal wire-pullers in the rural districts
will be much embarrassed by the existence of bounties which economically
they cannot approve but which politically they dare not remove. But surely
we shall have learned our lesson badly if the old strife of Tory and
Liberal is to be revived in all its former virulence and sterility. Besides
there is the Labour Party to be considered, as Mr. GEORGE ROBERTS reminded
the House in the best speech he has made since he went on the Treasury
Bench. He pointed out that if high wages and good conditions were to be
secured for agricultural workers the prosperity of the agricultural
industry as a whole must be ensured; and he hoped that the policy of
State-aid would not stop there. No wonder the hard-shell Free Traders
looked glum.

Sir HEDWORTH MEUX must be careful or he will jeopardize his reputation as a
humourist. Mr. PARTINGTON having asked whether the Government would put
down their racehorses, the gallant Admiral could think of no better jest
than that the proposal was as futile as that of the hon. Member's namesake,
who endeavoured to keep out the Atlantic with a mop. Shortly afterwards Mr.
YEO asked whether the Government would consider the destruction of cats,
with a view, perhaps, to the suppression of MEUX.

The Corn Production Bill had to run the gauntlet of a good many criticisms
during the second day's debate. The unkindest cut of all was delivered by
the SPEAKER. Mr. MOLTENO had asked whether Members who were landowners or
farmers might vote on a measure affecting their financial interests, and
Mr. LOWTHER replied that the benefits were "so problematical and so
uncertain" that he thought they might. Mr. MOLTENO used his freedom to vote
against the Second Reading; but only a handful of Members followed his
example. Mr. RUNCIMAN and his friends decided that abstention was the
better part of valour.

_Thursday, April 26th._--Major BAIRD made a modest and candid defence of
the Air Board against its many critics. He did not pretend that they were
yet satisfied--in the case of so new a service there could be no finality--
but he claimed that the departments had worked much more harmoniously since
they were all housed under the hospitable roof of the Hotel Cecil, a
statement which Lord HUGH of that ilk subsequently endorsed. Major BAIRD,
despite the general mildness of his voice and demeanour, can deliver a good
hard knock on occasion. He warned the House against indulging in a certain
class of criticism, on the ground that there was no surer way of killing an
airman than to destroy his confidence in the machine he was flying; and he
asserted that the "mastery of the air" was a meaningless phrase impossible
of realization. I think Mr. PEMBERTON-HICKS and Mr. JOYNSON-BILLING took
the rebuke to heart, for they were much less aggressive than usual.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "BE A GOOD BOY AND STOP YOUR 'OLLERIN, AND I'LL LET YER SEE
THE OLD GENT FALL ORF THE BUS."]

       *       *       *       *       *

SICK.

  Dear MR. PUNCH,--Excuse this tosh,
  But I've succumbed to measles (Bosch),
  And all my dreary hours are spent
  Inside a vast and gloomy tent.
  So, as I'm feeling rather blue,
  I thought I'd better write to you.
  All known diseases here you'll find
  (This letter's steamed, you needn't mind);
  But in my tent there's only one,
  I'm glad to say, viz., measles (Hun).
  The Nurses all are Scotch and stout,
  So are the drinks I do without;
  I don't complain of lack of fruit--
  At least we don't get arrowroot--
  Nor have I even ever seen a
  Single plate of semolina.
  So life is not so bad, you see,
  Except for chlorine in the tea.
  I think that's all, so now will end,
  Hoping this finds you, dearest friend,
  Just as it leaves me, in the pink
  (My rash is not quite gone, I think).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Now those precious divisions have to be hurled into the furnace to
    avert a veritable landslide."--_Sunday Paper._

The shortage of men in the German Army has evidently been exaggerated. This
confirms the evidence from other sources that they have troops to burn.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"HAMLET."

To prepare a very own version of _Hamlet_ and play it with credit--that is
still the blue riband of the Stage. Mr. H.B. IRVING has fairly won it. The
version seemed to me apt. He tells us that his main purpose was to bring
out the story as if for those who had never seen the play before. It is a
rational point of view, and certainly it seemed a distinct improvement not
to lose sight of _Hamlet's_ adventure to England, as is commonly the case,
and to keep the essential sequence of events and the personality of the
Prince constantly before the audience. The justification of the heroic cuts
and adaptations was that the action did move faster towards the tragic end,
instead of seeming to drag rather tiresomely as (be it confessed) it
sometimes does.

[Illustration: "OUR SON IS FAT AND SCANT OF BREATH."

(We shouldn't have guessed it, but his own mother ought to know.)

_Hamlet_ . . . . . . . MR. H.B. IRVING.]

Observers contrasting this with Mr. IRVING'S earlier performance remarked a
gain in depth and fire and a happier restraint of mannerism. It was a very
notable and gracious piece of work. He has the player's first gift, an
arresting personality. His elocution has distinction. He conveys the beauty
of the words and the richness of the packed thought thoughtfully. The
complex play of action and motive--the purpose blunted by overmuch
thinking, the spurs to dull revenge, the self-contempt, the assumed antic
disposition, at times the real mental disturbance--all this was set before
us with a fine skill and resource. The "To be or not to be" soliloquy was
masterly in its sincerity and restraint; the two broken love passages with
_Ophelia_ showed a fine tenderness through the distraught, bitter mood. An
ingenious turn was given to that difficult change of weapons in the fencing
bout, though I doubt if the Sword Club would wholly have approved the
technique of the fencing.

Miss GERTRUDE ELLIOTT'S _Ophelia_ in the Mad Scene was full of beauty,
sweetness and dignity--and we have so often been bored by our lesser
_Ophelias_. A very fine performance. Mr. HOLMAN CLARK was the foolish
prating knave, a _Polonius_ robbed of his best speech, and the more
consistent therefore. Mr. IRVING is obviously right in his view that
_Polonius_ could never by any chance have given any such advice to his
truculent son.

One may congratulate the producer on the courage of his convictions. But I
wonder if the Shakspearean tradition is really dying. The general quality
of the performance was, it must be confessed, not inspiring. There was
little of the king's divinity hedging _Claudius_; the _Queen_ (an always
difficult part) was elaborately unconvincing, though played by a clever
actress; _Guildenstern_ and awkward _Rosencrantz_ deserved any fate which
awaited them in England. Neither _Laertes_ nor _Horatio_ seemed authentic.
But Mr. TOM REYNOLDS' grave-digger had humour and avoided tedium. _Hamlet_
was the thing.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Berlin official telegram states that the Kaiser has sent the
    following telegram to the Crown Prince:--'The troops of all the German
    tribes under your command, with steel-hard determination and strongly
    led, have brought to failure the great French attempt to break through
    on the Aisne and in Champagne. Also there, again, the infantry had to
    bear the grunt.'"--_Northern Whig._

The Imperial euphemism, we suppose, for the cry of "Kamerad!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW RATIONS.

    "Joint Hospital Board, ----, 14th April, 1917. The above Board require
    two Probationer Nurses for their Consumption."--_Provincial Paper._

       *       *       *       *       *

A correspondent having observed in a morning paper the headline,
"Pomeranians Surrender!" sends us a suggested contents-bill for _The
Barking Gazette_:--

  GREAT CAPTURE OF POMS!
  PEKINESE BREAK OFF RELATIONS.
  GREAT DANES NEUTRAL.
  RAID BY TERRITORIAL FLYING CORPS
    (SKY TERRIERS).
  ROUT OF DALMATIANS.
  FIELD-GREYHOUNDS DRIVEN OFF.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ADJUTANT ON LEAVE.

"Leave, I'm afraid," remarked the Adjutant, standing with his back to the
fire and hitching his bath towel more securely over his left shoulder, "can
only be granted now in special circumstances."

Flying being prevented for that afternoon by the weather conditions, we had
been playing hockey, and the Adjutant, who by virtue of seniority had just
had first go at the bathroom, was in a warm and expansive mood. The rest of
us sat about in his quarters awaiting our turns at a hot-water supply that
would certainly cease to have anything warming or expansive about it by the
time it reached the junior Second Lieutenant.

"The question is," said that dejected officer, fixing the Adjutant with a
watchful eye--"the question is, what are you going to regard as special
circumstances?"

"You state your circumstances to me officially to-morrow," said the
Adjutant cheerfully, "and I'll tell you quickly enough whether they're
special or not,"

"I suppose," suggested the Stunt Pilot, "that a wedding would be a pretty
special sort of circumstance, wouldn't it?"

"That depends," replied the Adjutant. "Are you thinking of getting married
yourself?"

The Stunt Pilot said that he hadn't been, but if there was any leave going
with it he might think of it.

"One's simply got to get leave _somehow_," he complained. "What about a
breach of promise case? Suppose I manage to get mixed up in a breach of
promise case, wouldn't that do?"

"That's no good," commented the Junior Officer gloomily. "You'd have to get
leave for something else first before you could manage it."

"And if you did," added the Adjutant severely, "you'd get leave for rather
longer than you bargained for."

"How about funerals?" put in the Equipment Officer hopefully. "Funerals are
a fairly sound stunt, aren't they?"

"Funerals," observed the Adjutant, "are played out. If you come to me
to-morrow and talk about dead uncles and things I shall have all sorts of
inquiries made that will surprise you. I've been had before by funerals.
When I was in the Army"--the Adjutant talks like this since he was attached
to the Flying Corps--"when I was in the Army there was a fellow who used to
come to the orderly-room and talk funerals to me until I was sick of the
sight of him. After some months of it I made him give me a written list of
all his surviving relations, and then as he killed them off I used to
scratch them out. I caught him at last on his third grandmother."

"That's all very nice," said the Stunt Pilot, "but the question at present
before the meeting is how are we poor beggars to get any leave?"

"It's no good blaming me," returned the Adjutant blandly. "Command Orders
are Command Orders."

There was a brief silence, and then the Stunt Pilot lifted up his voice and
spoke eloquently about the War Office and Brass Hats generally. He said
that they had hearts of granite and were strangers to all loving-kindness.
Their days were spent in idleness in the Metropolis (so said the Stunt
Pilot), while he and his fellows drove rotten 'buses for hours together
over the beastliest district in Europe. Of an evening the Carlton and the
Piccadilly, the Bing Boys and the Bing Girls, all the delights of London
were ready to their hands, while poor devils like himself, shorn of leave,
were condemned to languish in a moth-eaten Mess in the society of such
people as the Adjutant. Where was the sense in it, where the justice, and
when the deuce were they, any of them, going to get a chance at the
bath-room?

The Adjutant regarded him with amused pity.

"The fact of it is," he observed, "you people have been absolutely spoilt
over leave. When I was in the Infantry we used to consider three or four
days in six months quite handsome."

The Stunt Pilot inquired sarcastically whether he meant three or four days'
work or three or four days' leave.

"I don't mind saying," pursued the Adjutant, ignoring this sally, "at the
risk of making myself unpopular, that personally I think it's a very good
thing that leave _has_ been cut down. My own opinion is that in the past
there's been a lot too much leave flying about. Running up and down to
London on leave isn't going to help beat the Germans. What we've got to do
if we want to win this War is to--"

At this moment the C.O. entered and put down a hockey-stick in the corner.

"Thanks for the stick, Jervis," he said, and turned to go. "By the way,
shall I see you at the orderly-room tomorrow before you go? What train are
you catching?"

The Adjutant hesitated for the fraction of a second.

"Well, Sir," he said, "I thought of taking the 9.5."

"I see," said the C.O. "Right-o. You won't be away longer than forty-eight
hours, I suppose?"

"Oh, no," said the Adjutant. "That'll do well, Sir."

A brief astonished silence followed the C.O.'s departure, a silence broken
by the excited tones of the Stunt Pilot.

"The 9.5?" he cried. "Are you going to _London_?"

The Adjutant lit a cigarette with some deliberation.

"Only just for forty-eight hours," he remarked.

"Forty-eight hours!" gasped the indignant Pilot; then, raising his voice to
surmount the din, "Forty-eight hours' leave in London, and you've just been
pouring out hot air about--"

"_Leave?_" interrupted the Adjutant, in pained surprise. "What d'you mean
by leave? I'm going on _duty_."

A chorus of derisive laughter greeted the announcement. "Duty?" echoed the
Stunt Pilot bitterly. "_What_ duty?"

The Adjutant took another furl in his bath-towel.

"If you really must know," he said composedly, "I'm going to buy a
vacuum-cleaner for the Mess."

"You infernal old wangler!" cried the outraged Pilot, when at last he was
able to make himself heard. "Of course it takes forty-eight hours to buy a
vacuum-cleaner, doesn't it?"

"As a matter of fact," said the Adjutant solemnly, "my whole experience of
vacuum-cleaners leads me to the conviction that you have to look at a great
many of them before you can pick a really good one." He glanced round for
his clothes. "And now if you fellows will get on with your baths, I've got
an air mechanic coming in a minute or two to cut my hair. I expect I shall
be far too busy in town for the next two days to have any time to waste on
barbers."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Farmer_ (_to "land-lady"_). "HI, MISSIE, WHAT BE YE DOIN'
WI TRACE-HORSE BEHIND, AND A LOAD LIKE THAT?"

"_Land-lady._" "OH, WELL, YOU SEE, WHEN HE WAS IN FRONT HE WAS ALWAYS
TURNING ROUND WRONG WAY ON, SO I JUST PUT HIM BEHIND TO HELP UP HILLS, LIKE
THE RAILWAY ENGINES."]

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL POST.

Everything was just as usual. I caught my tram at the corner of the street.
It was the six o'clock car--I noticed the usual evening crowd, and they
were all as bored and cross and frigid as usual.

The old gentleman of the whiskers was, as usual, reading his evening paper.
He looked personally affronted as I sat down beside him. The elderly
relative--as I call her--was opposite to me. She had her small attaché-case
and her knitting as usual, and she made me feel at a glance that my face
bored her intolerably. For the rest, I saw the fat paterfamilias, the
wish-I-had-a-motor lady, the pert flapper and all the crew who travel with
dejected spirits to and fro on our suburban line.

So far all was in order. Then the conductress came round.

"Tuppenny," I murmured. "Albemarle Road."

"What's your town?" she asked, taking a pencil from behind her ear.

"Town? It's Albemarle Road I want."

"But what town do you choose for Post?" she asked. "You've all got to have
a town, you know. Don't make it too long. Hurry up! I've got to write you
all down, and it's time to begin."

"Pontresina," I gasped wildly. That seemed to be the only town I had ever
heard of.

"And you, Sir?" she was asking the old gentleman.

"Macclesfield," he said very decidedly.

The elderly relative was fidgeting to say hers. I could have guessed it
would be St. Ives.

The conductress made her way from one end to the other.

"All got towns?" she asked. "You, Sir? Pernambuco? I do wish you'd stick to
English names. Are you all ready?"

She rang the bell.

"Now," she said, "the gentleman on the stool has to catch. The Post is
going from Paris to Pontresina."

I rose and looked wildly down the car. The flapper was beckoning slightly.
Her contemptuous boredom had vanished, and she looked a merry child again.
I rushed, stumbled, rocked into her place; she sank with a gasp into mine.

"York to St. Ives!"

It was the paterfamilias who was up now, and the elderly relative was
signing to him. In a breathless scurry she was in his place gasping beside
me. For the first time in her life she spoke to me.

"What an escape!" she said. "There, _he'_s caught--York, I mean. I don't
know his proper name. It's odd, isn't it, we know each other's faces so
well and yet we don't know each other's names. Now that we have towns for
names, it will be far more friendly, won't it? I always called you Cicero
to myself. Oh, I hardly know why--you looked a little satirical sometimes.
But now you're Pontresina, of course."

"Macclesfield to Pernambuco!"

"There!" laughed my companion. "I knew Macclesfield would be caught--he's
so stately, isn't he? But look how he's laughing. Do you know I never
thought any of the people in this car _could_ laugh, or even smile. I do
think this Society for the Abolition of Boredom in Public Conveyances is an
excellent thing, don't you?"

"Pontresina to St. Ives!"

Breathlessly we changed places; her black hat was a little crooked, but she
only laughed.

"I've lost my knitting, too," she said, "but I don't mind. This exercise
keeps one so warm these cold days."

The game was in wild progress; the car rocked and jolted and the
conductress shouted the names.

"General Post!" she called. "Those inside change places with those
outside."

That was the most breathlessly exciting moment of the whole game. There was
a solid struggling mass of humanity on the tram staircase. Those without
were pushing frantically to come down; we were shoving to get up.

The lady called St. Ives was thumping my shoulders.

"Climb up the railing," she said.

Somehow I did it, and leaned down to catch her hands and drag her upwards.
We launched ourselves breathlessly on to the furthest seat.

Stout old Macclesfield was the next. He had lost his hat and his white hair
was ruffled.

"I'm here," he said. "Macclesfield for ever!"

The flapper had scrambled up the front staircase against the rules. She
cast herself down beside Macclesfield.

"Here I am, old dear," she exclaimed. "I left York simply _jammed_ in the
wedge. Oh, isn't it fun? I never laughed so much. We never _can_ be serious
with each other after this, can we?"

St. Ives nodded.

"I'll never forget Pontresina climbing the rail," she said. "I used to
think him so haughty; now--"

"Albemarle Road--don't you want Albemarle Road?" the conductress was asking
me. She spoke very loudly.

"Pontresina--I'm Pontresina," I answered.

"This is Albemarle Road. If you're going on it'll be another penny," she
insisted.

I rose in bewilderment.

