
[Footnote 1: I extract the following picture of consummate horror, from
the notes to a Poem written in twelve syllable verse upon the campaign
of 1794 and 1795; it was during the retreat to Deventer.
"We could not proceed a hundred yards without perceiving the dead bodies
of men, women, children and horses in every direction. One scene made an
impression upon my memory which time will never be able to efface. Near
another cart we perceived a stout looking man, and a beautiful young
woman with an infant, about seven months old, at the breast, all three
frozen and dead. The mother had most certainly expired in the act of
suckling her child, as with one breast exposed, she lay upon the drifted
snow, the milk to all appearance in a stream drawn from the nipple by
the babe, and instantly congealed. The infant seemed as if its lips had
but just then been disengaged, and it reposed its little head upon the
mother's bosom, with, an overflow of milk, frozen as it trickled from
the mouth; their countenances were perfectly composed and fresh,
resembling those of persons in a sound and tranquil slumber."]


The SOLDIER'S WIFE.


DACTYLICS.

Weary way-wanderer languid and sick at heart
Travelling painfully over the rugged road,
Wild-visag'd Wanderer! ah for thy heavy chance!

Sorely thy little one drags by thee bare-footed,
Cold is the baby that hangs at thy bending back
Meagre and livid and screaming its wretchedness.

[1] Woe-begone mother, half anger, half agony,
As over thy shoulder thou lookest to hush the babe,
Bleakly the blinding snow beats in thy hagged face.

Thy husband will never return from the war again,
Cold is thy hopeless heart even as Charity--
Cold are thy famish'd babes--God help thee, widow'd One!


[Footnote 1: This stanza was supplied by S.T. COLERIDGE.]


The WIDOW.

SAPPHICs.

Cold was the night wind, drifting fast the snows fell,
Wide were the downs and shelterless and naked,
When a poor Wanderer struggled on her journey
        Weary and way-sore.

Drear were the downs, more dreary her reflexions;
Cold was the night wind, colder was her bosom!
She had no home, the world was all before her,
        She had no shelter.

Fast o'er the bleak heath rattling drove a chariot,
"Pity me!" feebly cried the poor night wanderer.
"Pity me Strangers! lest with cold and hunger
        Here I should perish.

"Once I had friends,--but they have all forsook me!
"Once I had parents,--they are now in Heaven!
"I had a home once--I had once a husband--
        "Pity me Strangers!

"I had a home once--I had once a husband--
"I am a Widow poor and broken-hearted!"
Loud blew the wind, unheard was her complaining.
        On drove the chariot.

On the cold snows she laid her down to rest her;
She heard a horseman, "pity me!" she groan'd out;
Loud blew the wind, unheard was her complaining,
        On went the horseman.

Worn out with anguish, toil and cold and hunger,
Down sunk the Wanderer, sleep had seiz'd her senses;
There, did the Traveller find her in the morning,
        GOD had releast her.


To the CHAPEL BELL.

  "Lo I, the man who erst the Muse did ask
    Her deepest notes to swell the Patriot's meeds,
  Am now enforst a far unfitter task
    For cap and gown to leave my minstrel weeds,"
  For yon dull noise that tinkles on the air
Bids me lay by the lyre and go to morning prayer.

  Oh how I hate the sound! it is the Knell,
    That still a requiem tolls to Comfort's hour;
  And loth am I, at Superstition's bell,
    To quit or Morpheus or the Muses bower.
  Better to lie and dose, than gape amain,
Hearing still mumbled o'er, the same eternal strain.

  Thou tedious herald of more tedious prayers
    Say hast thou ever summoned from his rest,
  One being awakening to religious awe?
    Or rous'd one pious transport in the breast?
  Or rather, do not all reluctant creep
To linger out the hour, in listlessness or sleep?

  I love the bell, that calls the poor to pray
    Chiming from village church its chearful sound,
  When the sun smiles on Labour's holy day,
    And all the rustic train are gathered round,
  Each deftly dizen'd in his Sunday's best
And pleas'd to hail the day of piety and rest.

  Or when, dim-shadowing o'er the face of day,
    The mantling mists of even-tide rise slow,
  As thro' the forest gloom I wend my way,
    The minster curfew's sullen roar I know;
  I pause and love its solemn toll to hear,
As made by distance soft, it dies upon the ear.

  Nor not to me the unfrequent midnight knell
    Tolls sternly harmonizing; on mine ear
  As the deep death-fraught sounds long lingering dwell
    Sick to the heart of Love and Hope and Fear
  Soul-jaundiced, I do loathe Life's upland steep
And with strange envy muse the dead man's dreamless sleep.

  But thou, memorial of monastic gall!
    What Fancy sad or lightsome hast thou given?
  Thy vision-scaring sounds alone recall
    The prayer that trembles on a yawn to heaven;
  And this Dean's gape, and that Dean's nosal tone,
And Roman rites retain'd, tho' Roman faith be flown.


The RACE of BANQUO.

Fly, son of Banquo! Fleance, fly!
Leave thy guilty sire to die.
O'er the heath the stripling fled,
The wild storm howling round his head.
Fear mightier thro' the shades of night
Urged his feet, and wing'd his flight;
And still he heard his father cry
Fly, son of Banquo! Fleance, fly.

Fly, son of Banquo! Fleance, fly
Leave thy guilty sire to die.
On every blast was heard the moan
The anguish'd shriek, the death-fraught groan;
Loathly night-hags join the yell
And see--the midnight rites of Hell.

Forms of magic! spare my life!
Shield me from the murderer's knife!
Before me dim in lurid light
Float the phantoms of the night--
Behind I hear my Father cry,
Fly, son of Banquo--Fleance, fly!

Parent of the sceptred race,
Fearless tread the circled space:
Fearless Fleance venture near--
Sire of monarchs--spurn at fear.

Sisters with prophetic breath
Pour we now the dirge of Death!


MUSINGS on a LANDSCAPE

of

GASPAR POUSSIN.

Poussin! most pleasantly thy pictur'd scenes
Beguile the lonely hour; I sit and gaze
With lingering eye, till charmed FANCY makes
The lovely landscape live, and the rapt soul
From the foul haunts of herded humankind
Flies far away with spirit speed, and tastes
The untainted air, that with the lively hue
Of health and happiness illumes the cheek
Of mountain LIBERTY. My willing soul
All eager follows on thy faery flights
FANCY! best friend; whose blessed witcheries
With loveliest prospects cheat the traveller
O'er the long wearying desart of the world.
Nor dost thou FANCY with such magic mock
My heart, as, demon-born, old Merlin knew,
Or Alquif, or Zarzafiel's sister sage,
Whose vengeful anguish for so many a year
Held in the jacinth sepulchre entranced
Lisvart and Perion, pride of chivalry.
Friend of my lonely hours! thou leadest me
To such calm joys as Nature wise and good
Proffers in vain to all her wretched sons;
Her wretched sons who pine with want amid
The abundant earth, and blindly bow them down
Before the Moloch shrines of WEALTH and POWER,
AUTHORS of EVIL. Oh it is most sweet
To medicine with thy wiles the wearied heart,
Sick of reality. The little pile
That tops the summit of that craggy hill
Shall be my dwelling; craggy is the hill
And steep, yet thro' yon hazels upward leads
The easy path, along whose winding way
Now close embowered I hear the unseen stream
Dash down, anon behold its sparkling foam
Gleam thro' the thicket; and ascending on
Now pause me to survey the goodly vale
That opens on my vision. Half way up
Pleasant it were upon some broad smooth rock
To sit and sun me, and look down below
And watch the goatherd down that high-bank'd path
Urging his flock grotesque; and bidding now
His lean rough dog from some near cliff to drive
The straggler; while his barkings loud and quick
Amid their trembling bleat arising oft,
Fainter and fainter from the hollow road
Send their far echoes, till the waterfall,
Hoarse bursting from the cavern'd cliff beneath,
Their dying murmurs drown. A little yet
Onward, and I have gain'd the upmost height.
Fair spreads the vale below: I see the stream
Stream radiant on beneath the noontide sky.
Where the town-spires behind the castle towers
Rise graceful; brown the mountain in its shade,
Whose circling grandeur, part by mists conceal'd,
Part with white rocks resplendant in the sun,
Should bound mine eyes; aye and my wishes too,
For I would have no hope or fear beyond.
The empty turmoil of the worthless world,
Its vanities and vices would not vex
My quiet heart. The traveller, who beheld
The low tower of the little pile, might deem
It were the house of GOD: nor would he err
So deeming, for that home would be the home
Of PEACE and LOVE, and they would hallow it
To HIM. Oh life of blessedness! to reap
The fruit of honorable toil, and bound
Our wishes with our wants! delightful Thoughts
That sooth the solitude of maniac HOPE,
Ye leave her to reality awak'd,
Like the poor captive, from some fleeting dream
Of friends and liberty and home restor'd,
Startled, and listening as the midnight storm
Beats hard and heavy thro' his dungeon bars.


Mary.

The story of the following ballad was related to me, when a school boy,
as a fact which had really happened in the North of England. I have
adopted the metre of Mr. Lewis's Alonzo and Imogene--a poem deservedly
popular.


MARY.

I.

Who is she, the poor Maniac, whose wildly-fix'd eyes
  Seem a heart overcharged to express?
She weeps not, yet often and deeply she sighs,
She never complains, but her silence implies
  The composure of settled distress.


II.

No aid, no compassion the Maniac will seek,
  Cold and hunger awake not her care:
Thro' her rags do the winds of the winter blow bleak
On her poor withered bosom half bare, and her cheek
  Has the deathy pale hue of despair.


III.

Yet chearful and happy, nor distant the day,
  Poor Mary the Maniac has been;
The Traveller remembers who journeyed this way
No damsel so lovely, no damsel so gay
  As Mary the Maid of the Inn.


IV.

Her chearful address fill'd the guests with delight
  As she welcomed them in with a smile:
Her heart was a stranger to childish affright,
And Mary would walk by the Abbey at night
  When the wind whistled down the dark aisle.


V.

She loved, and young Richard had settled the day,
  And she hoped to be happy for life;
But Richard was idle and worthless, and they
Who knew him would pity poor Mary and say
  That she was too good for his wife.


VI.

'Twas in autumn, and stormy and dark was the night,
  And fast were the windows and door;
Two guests sat enjoying the fire that burnt bright,
And smoking in silence with tranquil delight
  They listen'd to hear the wind roar.


VII.

"Tis pleasant," cried one, "seated by the fire side
  "To hear the wind whistle without."
"A fine night for the Abbey!" his comrade replied,
"Methinks a man's courage would now be well tried
  "Who should wander the ruins about.


VIII.

"I myself, like a school-boy, should tremble to hear
  "The hoarse ivy shake over my head;
"And could fancy I saw, half persuaded by fear,
"Some ugly old Abbot's white spirit appear,
  "For this wind might awaken the dead!"


IX.

"I'll wager a dinner," the other one cried,
  "That Mary would venture there now."
"Then wager and lose!" with a sneer he replied,
"I'll warrant she'd fancy a ghost by her side,
  "And faint if she saw a white cow."


X.

