Though born amid the grandeur and sublimity of Highland scenery, I
was, at a very early age, brought to reside in a small village on the
east coast--small now, but once the most famous and important town in
that part of Scotland. Among the scenes of these times, none stand out
more vividly than the 'gathering-days'--the harvest of the year's
enjoyment--the time when a whole twelvemonth's happiness was
concentrated in the six weeks' vacation of the village-school. I do
not recollect the time when I began to glean--or _gather_, as it is
locally termed--probably I would, when very young, follow the others
to the near farms, and gradually become, as I grew older, a regular
gleaner. At that time the gleaners in our district were divided into
two gangs or parties. One of these was headed by four old women, whose
shearing-days were past; and as they were very peaceable, decent
bodies, it was considered an honour to get attached to their band. The
other was composed of the wilder spirits of the place, who thought
nothing of jumping dikes, breaking hedges, stealing turnips, and
committing other depredations on the farms which they visited.
Fortunately, my quiet disposition, and supposed good character,
procured my admittance into the more respectable gang; and I had the
honour of sharing its fortunes during the five or six years I
continued a gleaner. I was surprised to see one of these old ladies
toddling about the village only a few weeks ago, though her
gathering-days are long since past. She is the last survivor of the
quorum, and is now fast fading into dotage.

Although the two gleaning-parties never assumed a positive antagonism,
they took care to conceal their movements from each other as well as
possible. When one of our party received information of a field being
'ready,' the fact was secretly conveyed to all the members, with an
injunction to be 'in such a place at such an hour' on the following
morning; and the result generally was, that we had a considerable
portion of the field gleaned before the other gang arrived. But we did
not always act on previous information. Many a morning we departed on
the search, and frequently wandered all day without 'lifting a head.'
These were the best times for us young ones, whose hearts were too
light to care for more than the fun of the thing, as we then had a
glorious opportunity of getting a feast of bramble-berries and wild
raspberries in the woods and moors; but to the older members of our
party the disappointment was anything but pleasant.

I have spoken of a field being _ready_. Now, to some readers, this may
convey a very erroneous idea. We learn that in early times not only
were the gleaners admitted among the sheaves, or allowed to 'follow
the shearers,' as the privilege is now termed, but, in a certain
instance, the reapers were commanded to leave a handful now and then
for the gleaner. Now, that custom is entirely changed: the sheaves are
all taken away from the field; and instead of the reapers leaving
handfuls expressly for the gleaners, the farmer endeavours by raking
to secure as much as possible of what they accidentally leave on the
stubble. I am not inclined to quarrel with the condition that requires
the stocks to be removed ere the gleaners gain admittance; because
many would be tempted to pilfer, and besides, the ground on which they
stand could not be reached. But there is no doubt that the custom of
gleaning was originally a public enactment; while the fact that it has
spread over the whole earth, and descended to the present time, shews
that it still exists on the statute-book of justice, in all the length
and breadth of its original signification; and it amounts almost to a
virtual abrogation of the privilege when the stubble is thus gleaned.
At all events, if these sentiments are not in consonance with the new
lights of the day, let them be pardoned in a _ci-devant_ gleaner.

Upon arriving at a field, our first object was to choose a locality.
If we were first on the ground, we took a careful survey of its
geographical position, and acted accordingly. When the field was
level, and equally exposed, it mattered little to what part we went;
but in the event of its being hilly, or situated near a wood, we had
to consider where the best soil lay, and where the sun had shone most.
It was in the discovery of these important points that the sagacity
and experience of our aged leaders were most brilliantly displayed,
and gave to our party an immense superiority over the other, whose
science was much more scanty; it therefore happened that we had
generally the largest quantity and best quality of grain. These
preliminaries being settled--and they generally took less time than I
have done to write--we began work, commencing, of course, at the end
of the field by which we entered, and travelling up or down the rigs.

The process of gleaning may be generally considered a very simple one;
but in this, as in everything else, some knowledge is necessary, and
no better proof of this could be had, than in the quantities gathered
by different persons in the same space of time. A careless or
inexperienced gatherer could easily be detected by the size and
_shape_ of his single. The usual method practised by a good gleaner
was as follows:--Placing the left hand upon the knee, or behind the
back, the right was used to lift the ears, care being taken to grasp
them close by the 'neck.' When the right hand had gathered perhaps
twenty or thirty ears, these were changed into the left hand; the
right was again replenished from the ground; and this process was
continued till the left was full, or rather till the gleaner heard one
of his or her party exclaim: 'Tie!' when the single was obliged to be
completed. Thus it is clear that a good eye and a quick hand are
essential to a good gleaner.

Whenever one of the members of the party found that the left hand was
quite full, he or she could compel the others to finish their singles
whether their hand was full or not, by simply crying the
afore-mentioned word 'Tie!' At this sound, the whole band proceeded to
fasten their bundles, and deposit them on the rig chosen for their
reception. The process of 'tying' it is impossible to explain on
paper; but I can assure my readers it afforded great scope for taste
and ingenuity. Few, indeed, could do it properly, though the singles
of some were very neat. The best 'tyer' in our party, and indeed in
the district, was a little, middle-aged woman, who was a diligent,
rapid gatherer, and generally the first to finish her handful. Her
singles were perfectly round, and as flat at the top as if laid with a
plummet. Having finished tying, we laid down our singles according to
order, so that no difficulty might be felt in collecting them again,
and so proceeded with our labour.

When we got to the end of the field, the custom was, to finish our
handfuls there, and retrace our steps for the purpose of collecting
the deposits, when each of us tied up our collected bundles at the
place from which we originally started. To the lover of the
picturesque, the scene while we sat resting by the hedge-side, was one
of the most beautiful that can be imagined. Spread over the field in
every direction were the gleaners, busily engaged in their cheerful
task; while the hum of their conversation, mingling with the melody of
the insect world, the music of the feathery tribes, and the ripple of
the adjoining burn, combined to form a strain which I still hear in
the pauses of life.

On our homeward road from a successful day's, gathering, how merry we
all were, in spite of our tired limbs and the load upon our heads!
Indeed it was the load itself that made us glad; and we should have
been still merrier if that had been heavier. How sweet it was to feel
the weight of our industry--no burden could possibly be more grateful;
and I question much whether that was not the happiest moment in Ruth's
first gleaning-day, when she trudged home to her mother-in-law with
the ephah of barley, the produce of her unflagging toil.

When harvest was over, and the chill winds swept over cleared and
gleaned fields, our bond of union was dissolved, each retired to his
respective habitation, and, like Ruth, 'beat out that he had gleaned.'
In many cases, the result was a sufficient supply of bread to the
family for the ensuing winter. It was singular that, during the rest
of the year, little or no intercourse was maintained between those who
were thus associated during harvest. They lived together in the same
degree of friendship as is common among villagers, but I could never
observe any of that peculiar intimacy which it was natural to suppose
such an annual combination would create. They generally returned to
their ordinary occupations, and continued thus till the sickle was
again heard among the yellow corn, and the _stacks_ were growing in
the barn-yard. Then, as if by instinct, the members of the various
bands, and the independent stragglers, left their monotonous tasks,
and eagerly entered on the joys and pleasures of the gathering-days.

I might add many reminiscences of the few seasons I spent in this
manner; but I am afraid that, however interesting they might prove in
rural districts, they are too simple to interest the general reader.
Let me observe, however, before concluding, that the great majority of
the farmers at the present day are decidedly unfavourable to gleaning,
although the veneration that is generally entertained for what is
ancient, and the traditionary sacredness which surrounds this
particular custom, prevent them from openly forbidding its
continuance. They have introduced, however, laws and rules which
infringe sadly its original proportions, and which, in many instances,
are made the instruments of oppression.


WOMEN IN SAVAGE LIFE.


The division of labour between the man and wife in Indian life is not
so unequal, while they live in the pure hunter state, as many suppose.
The large part of a hunter's time, which is spent in seeking game,
leaves the wife in the wigwam, with a great deal of time on her hands;
for it must be remembered that there is no spinning, weaving, or
preparing children for school--no butter or cheese making, or a
thousand other cares which are inseparable from the agricultural
state, to occupy her skill and industry. Even the art of the
seamstress is only practised by the Indian woman on a few things. She
devotes much of her time to making moccasons and quill-work. Her
husband's leggins are carefully ornamented with beads; his shot-pouch
and knife-sheath are worked with quills; the hunting-cap is garnished
with ribbons; his garters of cloth are adorned with a profusion of
small white beads, and coloured worsted tassels are prepared for his
leggins. In the spring, the corn-field is planted by her and the
youngsters, in a vein of gaiety and frolic. It is done in a few hours,
and taken care of in the same spirit. It is perfectly voluntary
labour, and she would not be scolded for omitting it; for all labour
with Indians is voluntary.--_Schoolcraft's Indian Tribes_.


LANGUAGE OF THE LAW.


If a man would, according to law, give to another an orange, instead
of saying, 'I give you that orange,' which one would think would be
what is called in legal phraseology 'an absolute conveyance of all
right and title therein,' the phrase would run thus:--'I give you all
and singular my estate and interest, right, title, and claim, and
advantage of and in that orange, with all its rind, skin, juice, pulp,
and pips, and right and advantages therein, with full power to bite,
cut, suck, and otherwise eat the same, or give the same away, as fully
and as effectually as I, the said A. B., am now inclined to bite, cut,
suck, or otherwise eat the same orange or give the same away, with or
without its rind, skin, juice, pulp, or pips, anything heretofore or
hereinafter, or in any other deed or deeds, instrument or instruments,
of what nature or kind soever, to the contrary in anywise
notwithstanding;' with much more to the same effect. Such is the
language of lawyers; and it is gravely held by the most learned men
among them, that by the omission of any of these words, the right to
the said orange would not pass to the person for whose use the same
was intended.--_Newspaper paragraph_.


CHANCES OF LIFE IN AMERICA.


10,268 infants are born on the same day and enter upon life
simultaneously. Of these, 1243 never reach the anniversary of their
birth; 9025 commence the second year; but the proportion of deaths
still continues so great, that at the end of the third only 8183, or
about four-fifths of the original number, survive. But during the
fourth year the system seems to acquire more strength, and the number
of deaths rapidly decreases. It goes on decreasing until twenty-one,
the commencement of maturity and the period of highest health. 7134
enter upon the activities and responsibilities of life--more than
two-thirds of the original number. Thirty-five comes, the meridian of
manhood, 6302 have reached it. Twenty years more, and the ranks are
thinned. Only 4727, or less than half of those who entered life
fifty-five years ago, are left. And now death comes more frequently.
Every year the ratio of mortality steadily increases, and at seventy
there are not 1000 survivors. A scattered few live on to the close of
the century, and at the age of one hundred and six the drama is ended;
the last man is dead.--_Albany Journal_.


A SONG.


    The little white moon goes climbing
      Over the dusky cloud,
    Kissing its fringes softly,
      With a love-light, pale as shroud--
    Where walks this moon to-night, Annie?
    Over the waters bright, Annie?
      Does she smile on your face as you lift it, proud?
    God look on thee--look on thee, Annie!
      For I shall look never more!

    The little white star stands watching
      Ever beside the moon;
    Hid in the mists that shroud her,
      And hid in her light's mid-noon:
    Yet the star follows all heaven through, Annie,
    As my soul follows after you, Annie,
      At moon-rise and moon-set, late and soon:
    Oh, God watch thee, God watch thee, Annie,
      For I can watch never more!

    The purple-black sky folds loving,
      Over far sea, far land;
    The thunder-clouds, looming eastward,
      Like a chain of mountains stand.
    Under this July sky, Annie,
    Do you hear waves lapping by, Annie?
      Do you walk, with the hills on either hand?
    Oh, God love thee, God love thee, Annie,
      For I love thee evermore!




LONGEVITY OF QUAKERS.


Quakerism is favourable to _longevity_, it seems. According to late
English census returns, the average age attained by members of this
peaceful sect in Great Britain is fifty-one years, two months, and
twenty-one days. Half of the population of the country, as is seen by
the same returns, die before reaching the age of twenty-one, and the
average duration of human life the world over is but thirty-three
years; Quakers, therefore, live a third longer than the rest of us.
The reasons are obvious enough. Quakers are temperate and prudent, are
seldom in a hurry, and never in a passion. Quakers, in the very midst
of the week's business--on Wednesday morning--retire from the world,
and spend an hour or two in silent meditation at the meeting-house.
Quakers are diligent; they help one another, and the fear of want does
not corrode their minds. The journey of life to them is a walk of
peaceful meditation. They neither suffer nor enjoy intensity, but
preserve a composed demeanour always. Is it surprising that their days
should be long in the land?--_National Intelligencer_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed and Published by W. and R. CHAMBERS, High Street, Edinburgh.
Also sold by W. S. ORR, Amen Corner, London; D. N. CHAMBERS, 55 West
Nile Street, Glasgow; and J. M'GLASHAN, 50 Upper Sackville Street,
Dublin.--Advertisements for Monthly Parts are requested to be sent to
MAXWELL & Co., 31 Nicholas Lane, Lombard Street, London, to whom all
applications respecting their insertion must be made.