A Roman would have seen, in these accumulated disasters, a hint to
direct his sword's point against his breast; a man of better faith would
have turned his eye back on his own conduct, and having read, in his
misuse of prosperity, the original source of those calamities, would
have remained patient and contrite under the consequences of his
ambition. Napoleon belonged to the Roman school of philosophy; and it is
confidently reported, especially by Baron Fain, his secretary, though it
has not been universally believed, that he designed, at this extremity,
to escape from life by an act of suicide.

The emperor, according to this account, had carried with him, ever since
the retreat from Moscow, a packet containing a preparation of opium,
made up in the same manner with that used by Condorcet for
self-destruction. His valet-de-chambre, in the night betwixt the 12th
and 13th of April, heard him arise and pour something into a glass of
water, drink, and return to bed. In a short time afterwards, the man's
attention was called by sobs and stifled groans--an alarm took place in
the chateau--some of the principal persons were roused, and repaired to
Napoleon's chamber. Yvan, the surgeon, who had procured him the poison,
was also summoned; but hearing the emperor complain that the operation
of the poison was not quick enough, he was seized with a panic-terror,
and fled from the palace at full gallop. Napoleon took the remedies
recommended, and a long fit of stupor ensued, with profuse perspiration.
He awakened much exhausted, and surprised at finding himself still
alive; he said aloud, after a few moments' reflection, "Fate will not
have it so," and afterwards appeared reconciled to undergo his destiny,
without similar attempts at personal violence. There is, as we have
already hinted, a difference of opinion concerning the cause of
Napoleon's illness; some imputing it to indigestion. The fact of his
having been very much indisposed is, however, indisputable. A general of
the highest distinction transacted business with Napoleon on the morning
of the 13th of April. He seemed pale and dejected, as from recent and
exhausting illness. His only dress was a night-gown and slippers, and he
drank from time to time a quantity of tisan, or some such liquid, which
was placed beside him, saying he had suffered severely during the night,
but that his complaint had left him.

After this crisis, and having ratified the treaty which his mareschals
had made for him. Napoleon appeared more at his ease than he had been
for some time before, and conversed frankly with his attendants upon the
affairs of France.


NAPOLEON TAKES LEAVE OF THE IMPERIAL GUARD.


Napoleon having now resigned himself entirely to his fate, whether for
good or evil, prepared, on the 20th of April, to depart for his place of
retreat. But first, he had the painful task of bidding farewell to the
body in the universe most attached to him, and to which he was probably
most attached,--his celebrated Imperial Guard. Such of them as could be
collected were drawn out before him in review. Some natural tears
dropped from his eyes, and his features had the marks of strong emotion
while reviewing for the last time, as he must then have thought likely,
the companions of so many victories. He advanced to them on horseback,
dismounted, and took his solemn leave. "All Europe," he said, "had armed
against him; France herself had deserted him, and chosen another
dynasty. He might," he said, "have maintained with his soldiers a civil
war of years, but it would have rendered France unhappy. Be faithful,"
he continued, (and the words were remarkable,) "to the new sovereign
whom France has chosen. Do not lament my fate; I will always be happy
while I know you are so. I could have died--nothing was easier--but I
will always follow the road of honour. I will record with my pen the
deeds we have done together. I cannot embrace you all, but I embrace
your general,"--(he pressed the general to his bosom.)--"Bring hither
the eagle,"--(he embraced the standard, and concluded)--"Beloved eagle,
may the kisses I bestow on you long resound in the hearts of the
brave!--Adieu, my children,--Adieu, my brave companions.--Surround me
once more--Adieu." Drowned in grief, the veteran soldiers heard the
farewell of their dethroned leader; sighs and murmurs broke from their
ranks, but the emotion burst out in no threats or remonstrances. They
appeared resigned to the loss of their general, and to yield, like him,
to necessity.--_Scott's Napoleon_.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE ARK OF NOAH


The Rabbins make the giant Gog or Magog contemporary with Noah, and
convinced by his preaching. So that he was disposed to take the benefit
of the Ark. But here lay the distress; it by no means suited his
dimensions. Therefore, as he could not enter in, he contented himself to
ride upon it astride. And though you must suppose that, in that stormy
weather, he was more than half boots over, he kept his seat, and
dismounted safely, when the Ark landed on Mount Ararat. Image now to
yourself this illustrious Cavalier mounted on his _hackney_; and see if
it does not bring before you the Church, bestrid by some lumpish
minister of state, who turns and winds it at his pleasure. The only
difference is, that Gog believed the preacher of righteousness and
religion.--_Warburton's Letters_.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

    "I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--_Wotton_

       *       *       *       *       *


A preacher had held forth diffusely and ingeniously upon the doctrine
that the Creator of the universe had made all things beautiful. A little
crooked lawyer met him at the church door, and exclaimed, "Well, doctor,
what do you think of my figure? does it correspond with your tenets of
this morning?"--"My friend," replied the preacher, with much gravity,
"you are handsome for a hunch-backed man."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kosciusko once wished to send some bottles of good wine to a clergyman
of Solothurn; and as he hesitated to send them by his servant, lest he
should smuggle a part, he gave the commission to a young man of the name
of Zeltner, and desired him to take the horse which he himself usually
rode. On his return, young Zeltner said that he would never ride his
horse again unless he gave him his purse at the same time. Kosciusko
asking what he meant, he answered, "As soon as a poor man on the road
takes off his hat and asks for charity, the horse immediately stands
still, and won't stir till something is given to the petitioner; and, as
I had no money about me, I was obliged to make believe to give
something, in order to satisfy the horse."

       *       *       *       *       *

Persons in warm countries certainly possess powers of imagination
superior to persons in colder climates. The following description of a
small room will appear very poetic to an English reader: "I am now,"
says a Turkish spy, writing to his employers, "in an apartment so
little, that the least suspicion cannot enter it."

       *       *       *       *       *

An author, as too often happens, was very irritable in his disposition,
and very unfortunate in his productions. His tragedy and comedy had both
been rejected by the managers of both theatres. "I cannot account for
this," said the unfortunate bard to his friend; "for no one can say that
my tragedy was a _sad_ performance, or that my comedy was a thing to
laugh at."

       *       *       *       *       *



_Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) and sold by all Newsmen and Booksellers._