  ... Look! this flesh how it crumbles to dust and is blown!
  These bones, how they grind in the granite of frost and are nothing!
  This skull, how it yawns for a flicker of time in the darkness
  Yet laughs not and sees not! It is crushed by a hammer of sunlight,
  And the hands are destroyed.... Press down through the leaves of the
        jasmine,
  Dig through the interlaced roots--nevermore will you find me;
  I was no better than dust, yet you cannot replace me....
  Take the soft dust in your hand--does it stir: does it sing?
  Has it lips and a heart? Does it open its eyes to the sun?
  Does it run, does it dream, does it burn with a secret, or tremble
  In terror of death? Or ache with tremendous decisions?...
  Listen!... It says: "I lean by the river. The willows
  Are yellowed with bud. White clouds roar up from the south
  And darken the ripples; but they cannot darken my heart,
  Nor the face like a star in my heart!... Rain falls on the water
  And pelts it, and rings it with silver. The willow trees glisten,
  The sparrows chirp under the eaves; but the face in my heart
  Is a secret of music.... I wait in the rain and am silent."
  Listen again!... It says: "I have worked, I am tired,
  The pencil dulls in my hand: I see through the window
  Walls upon walls of windows with faces behind them,
  Smoke floating up to the sky, an ascension of seagulls.
  I am tired. I have struggled in vain, my decision was fruitless,
  Why then do I wait? with darkness, so easy, at hand!...
  But to-morrow, perhaps.... I will wait and endure till
        to-morrow!..."
  Or again: "It is dark. The decision is made. I am vanquished
  By terror of life. The walls mount slowly about me
  In coldness. I had not the courage. I was forsaken.
  I cried out, was answered by silence.... Tetélestai!..."


        V

  Hear how it babbles!--Blow the dust out of your hand,
  With its voices and visions, tread on it, forget it, turn homeward
  With dreams in your brain.... This, then, is the humble, the
        nameless,--
  The lover, the husband and father, the struggler with shadows,
  The one who went down under shoutings of chaos! The weakling
  Who cried his "forsaken!" like Christ on the darkening hilltop!...
  This, then, is the one who implores, as he dwindles to silence,
  A fanfare of glory.... And which of us dares to deny him!


  EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY


  EIGHT SONNETS


        I

  When you, that at this moment are to me
  Dearer than words on paper, shall depart,
  And be no more the warder of my heart,
  Whereof again myself shall hold the key;
  And be no more, what now you seem to be,
  The sun, from which all excellencies start
  In a round nimbus, nor a broken dart
  Of moonlight, even, splintered on the sea;

  I shall remember only of this hour--
  And weep somewhat, as now you see me weep--
  The pathos of your love, that, like a flower,
  Fearful of death yet amorous of sleep,
  Droops for a moment and beholds, dismayed,
  The wind whereon its petals shall be laid.


        II

  What's this of death, from you who never will die?
  Think you the wrist that fashioned you in clay,
  The thumb that set the hollow just that way
  In your full throat and lidded the long eye
  So roundly from the forehead, will let lie
  Broken, forgotten, under foot some day
  Your unimpeachable body, and so slay
  The work he most had been remembered by?

  I tell you this: whatever of dust to dust
  Goes down, whatever of ashes may return
  To its essential self in its own season,
  Loveliness such as yours will not be lost,
  But, cast in bronze upon his very urn,
  Make known him Master, and for what good reason.


        III

  I know I am but summer to your heart,
  And not the full four seasons of the year;
  And you must welcome from another part
  Such noble moods as are not mine, my dear.
  No gracious weight of golden fruits to sell
  Have I, nor any wise and wintry thing;
  And I have loved you all too long and well
  To carry still the high sweet breast of spring.

  Wherefore I say: O love, as summer goes,
  I must be gone, steal forth with silent drums,
  That you may hail anew the bird and rose
  When I come back to you, as summer comes.
  Else will you seek, at some not distant time,
  Even your summer in another clime.


        IV

  Here is a wound that never will heal, I know,
  Being wrought not of a dearness and a death
  But of a love turned ashes and the breath
  Gone out of beauty; never again will grow
  The grass on that scarred acre, though I sow
  Young seed there yearly and the sky bequeath
  Its friendly weathers down, far underneath
  Shall be such bitterness of an old woe.

  That April should be shattered by a gust,
  That August should be leveled by a rain,
  I can endure, and that the lifted dust
  Of man should settle to the earth again;
  But that a dream can die, will be a thrust
  Between my ribs forever of hot pain.


        V

  What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why,
  I have forgotten, and what arms have lain
  Under my head till morning; but the rain
  Is full of ghosts to-night, that tap and sigh
  Upon the glass and listen for reply;
  And in my heart there stirs a quiet pain,
  For unremembered lads that not again
  Will turn to me at midnight with a cry.

  Thus in the winter stands the lonely tree,
  Nor knows what birds have vanished one by one,
  Yet knows its boughs more silent than before:
  I cannot say what loves have come and gone;
  I only know that summer sang in me
  A little while, that in me sings no more.


        VI

  Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare.
  Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace,
  And lay them prone upon the earth and cease
  To ponder on themselves, the while they stare
  At nothing, intricately drawn nowhere
  In shapes of shifting lineage; let geese
  Gabble and hiss, but heroes seek release
  From dusty bondage into luminous air.

  O blinding hour, O holy, terrible day,
  When first the shaft into his vision shone
  Of light anatomized! Euclid alone
  Has looked on Beauty bare. Fortunate they
  Who, though once only and then but far away,
  Have heard her massive sandal set on stone.


        VII

  Oh, oh, you will be sorry for that word!
  Give back my book and take my kiss instead.
  Was it my enemy or my friend I heard?--
  "What a big book for such a little head!"
  Come, I will show you now my newest hat,
  And you may watch me purse my mouth and prink.
  Oh, I shall love you still and all of that.
  I never again shall tell you what I think.

  I shall be sweet and crafty, soft and sly;
  You will not catch me reading any more;
  I shall be called a wife to pattern by;
  And some day when you knock and push the door,
  Some sane day, not too bright and not too stormy,
  I shall be gone, and you may whistle for me.


        VIII

  Say what you will, and scratch my heart to find
  The roots of last year's roses in my breast;
  I am as surely riper in my mind
  As if the fruit stood in the stalls confessed.
  Laugh at the unshed leaf, say what you will,
  Call me in all things what I was before,
  A flutterer in the wind, a woman still;
  I tell you I am what I was and more.

  My branches weigh me down, frost cleans the air,
  My sky is black with small birds bearing south;
  Say what you will, confuse me with fine care,
  Put by my word as but an April truth,--
  Autumn is no less on me that a rose
  Hugs the brown bough and sighs before it goes.


BIBLIOGRAPHY


BIBLIOGRAPHY

(The following lists include poetical works only)


AMY LOWELL

A Dome of Many-Colored Glass           Houghton Mifflin Co.       1912

Sword Blades and Poppy Seed            The Macmillan Company      1914

