Reference to the tables of statistics compiled by the Commissioner of
Education for 1895-6 shows how well the race is meeting the demand for
teachers in its schools, everywhere in the South kept separate from
the public schools for white children. For the year above mentioned
there were employed 26,499 colored teachers, who had under their care
1,429,713 pupils. For the same year there were in the various Normal
Schools for colored people 4,672 students, 966 of whom were graduated;
826 were graduated from high schools and 161 from college courses,
making in all 1,953 graduates from courses of study considered
sufficient in extent to fit more or less thoroughly for the work of
teaching; not to mention the even greater numbers who engage in
teaching before having completed any higher course of training. So
much as to mere numbers. Now, in general, as to the advancement being
made by schools of this class. Without exception, the reports of
school officers give credit for constantly increasing excellency and
proficiency of both schools and teachers, and certain it is, that the
public appreciation and esteem is shown by an increasing patronage and
a more substantial provision for the improvement and support of the
schools.

In particular, while it is not always safe to draw sweeping
conclusions from facts gathered within a limited area of observation,
it may yet be confidently asserted, that what is true of the schools
and teachers of any fairly representative city or community in the
South, is likely to be measurably true wherever similar conditions and
opportunities prevail. My own direct experience and observation have
had to do with the colored schools and teachers of a single city of
sixty to eighty thousand people, nearly one-half colored, and the
counties and towns adjacent. These I have followed very closely for
over twenty-five years. I can testify positively that there has been a
steady raising of the standards of qualifications and proficiency with
regard both to intellectual and moral attainments among the teachers
of colored schools, and in this I shall be borne out by the testimony
of superintendents and school officers, as well as by all observing
people of these communities. In many cases teachers and schools of
this class have attained an enviable reputation and are often
mentioned as models of excellence in many ways.

The process of growth here, as elsewhere, has been one of the
"survival of the fittest," the ill-trained, inefficient teachers
gradually giving place to the better qualified, more capable class.
The initial influence in this line of succession dates back but little
more than thirty years, to the founding of "mission" schools at
centres of influence throughout the South; "a handful of corn on the
top of the mountain" from which has come the wide-spreading harvests
of the present. It is a statement well within the facts that nine out
of ten of the colored schools of all grades in the South are taught by
those who had their training in these mission schools, or else by
teachers who owe their education to those of their own race who were
so trained. No more powerful or far-reaching influence was ever set in
operation than that which had its origin in the cabin where taught the
first humble missionary among the people freed by the war. The whole
power and potency of all that has followed was represented in that
first despised and humble effort.

From that day to this seems a long call. The passage has been made
almost unobserved, like the coming of the Kingdom of Heaven. It now
not unfrequently happens that a colored public school stands
accredited in a community with excellencies to distinguish it as an
example worthy of imitation. Such is the colored high school in the
city of my direct observation, in the two respects of self-control and
government of its pupils, and in its movement toward a collection of
miscellaneous books for a school library--excellencies not ascribed,
so far as I know, in anything like the same measure to any other
public school. It is perhaps needless to add that the principal of
this school, as well as the teachers of a large percentage of the
other best schools of the city and county, have had their training in
one of the "mission" normal schools above mentioned.

To remove or weaken these centres of power would be to strike the most
deadly blow at the education of the colored people. It would be the
removal of so many nerve centres out from which still flow the stimuli
needful to keep in active operation and growing power the entire
system.

John F. Slater and Daniel Hand and a hundred other individual
benefactors have seen this vital fact and have done what they could to
build up and strengthen such influences. The church will make a great
mistake if it ignores this fact or relaxes its efforts in the support
of the institutions so wisely planned and so greatly efficient for
good in the past.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.


CLOSING EXERCISES AT LE MOYNE.--Le Moyne Normal Institute, Memphis,
Tennessee, closed on the 2nd of June. Not less than 2,500 people
crowded the auditorium at the closing exercises. The large attendance
betokens the influence of the school in the community and the esteem
in which it is held.

STUDENTS ENLISTING.--Many of the students of our colleges and Normal
Schools have enlisted in the service of their country. From Talladega
College, Alabama, we receive the following: "We send a score of our
choice young men off to the army to-morrow." From Lincoln School,
Meridian, Miss., the Principal writes: "One young man is away in the
interests of his company, of which he is Captain. He wrote, 'This is
the time to show of what clay we are made, and I trust each student
of Lincoln School will prove himself loyal to his country.' Four of
the officers of his company are graduates of Lincoln School."

       *       *       *       *       *

A SKETCH OF THE CAREER OF A STRAIGHT UNIVERSITY GRADUATE.

BY REV. GEORGE W. HENDERSON, D.D.


Among the young colored men who heard the call of God for the
uplifting of their race was Mr. H----, whose home was in Arkansas.
From the first, with him Christian faith meant Christian service, and
he at once became active in church and Sunday-school. Nature was
generous to him in the saving gift of common sense, and he was not
long in perceiving the incompetency of the ministers to whom the
people at that time looked for religious instruction and leadership.

A fortunate providence brought him into contact with a teacher from
Straight University. The information she gave him of this institution
opened the way to execute the purpose which he had been cherishing for
some time, to fit himself to become a missionary to his people in his
own home. The loss of a leg at this time, through the carelessness of
another, instead of discouraging, strengthened his resolution.
Penniless, like Booker Washington, he set out for this missionary seat
of learning, his only resource, prayer, his only support, hope and
faith.

One bright morning, this brave Arkansas lad presented himself at
Straight University. Hobbling up the walk to the main building, and
assuming an air of confidence quite in contrast to his internal
emotions, he hailed a passing student in the familiar vocabulary of
the plantation--"Say, Sonny, is the Boss in?" The "Boss" was in, and
on meeting this new candidate for academical honors, quite took away
his breath by addressing him as "Mr." Such courtesy was a surprise and
a revelation to him. That he was somebody in the eyes of heaven was
the gracious revelation of his Christian faith; it now for the first
time dawned upon him that the recognition of his manhood was possible
on earth.

Eight years of earnest study followed, years full of happiness,
because they were years of progress, of growing religious experience,
of expanding intellectual and spiritual vision. The dream of his
uncared for boyhood was in process of realization. He enjoyed the
confidence of teachers and scholars alike, for he was the soul of
honor, and his word was the word of truth. His vacations were spent in
teaching in the common schools of Louisiana. Success always crowned
his efforts; his schools were usually full to overflowing. He taught
in the Sunday-schools and made himself useful in every form of
Christian service. On one occasion the school house was destroyed by
fire, but nothing daunted, the enthusiastic teacher rallied the
neighbors, and with them and the scholars he went into the woods,
chopped down the trees, hewed the logs, and in a few days replaced the
old building with a better, and the school went on more successfully
than ever.

And so on till the end of his life, difficulties were faced bravely
and successfully. With the assistance of friends, a cork leg took the
place of the pole which he had lashed to the stump of his lost limb.
After completing the normal course, he took the usual course in
theology.

On Vermillion Bay, not far from the Gulf Coast, and at the terminus of
a branch of the Southern Pacific Railroad, about twenty miles from
Bayou Teche, the stream that keeps green and beautiful the year round
that section of Louisiana which was first settled by the exiled
Acadians and made famous in Longfellow's "Evangeline," is a thriving
village. In the patois of the country the people are called "Cajians,"
a corruption of Acadians. As a rule, they are non-progressive and
ignorant. But the spirit of modern progress, brought in on the
railroad, is putting new life into old customs.

In this village just waking into its new life, a humble man of faith,
in the year 1885, organized a Congregational church. The organizer of
this new church, having only a limited education, soon found himself
at the end of his resources. The people were still hungry and still
unfed. One plants, another waters. Unknown to the people, and in his
own good way and time, God was preparing to answer their prayer for a
shepherd who could lead them into the green pastures and by the side
of quiet waters.

The Arkansas lad, proud of the possession of his normal and
theological diplomas, and now ready for service, was sent by the A. M.
A. to this prosperous village in the beautiful Teche country. When Mr.
H. arrived in the fading twilight of a June evening, and looked over
the situation--a rude, unfinished edifice, a scattered congregation,
and a membership that had diminished almost to the vanishing
point--for the first time he began to have serious doubts whether
after all he had not mistaken his calling. After much searching, only
ten or twelve discouraged members could be found. Neither party was
unduly impressed with the other. His doubt that he could do anything
for the church was probably fully respected by the members as they
looked him over and took his measure. The thoughts that came to him
that night as he lay upon his restless and dreamless pillow, were
decidedly Jonah-like. Nor were the means lacking to follow the example
of that ancient prophet. Ships lay at anchor in Vermillion Bay ready
to carry him out into the gulf and the great sea beyond. The question
what he should eat and drink, and wherewithal he should be clothed,
seemed to justify his flight. He was now learning that missionary
service is a fine thing to talk about in prayer meetings and
missionary gatherings, but that the reality often possesses a stern
and forbidding countenance. Nor was much reflection needed to show him
that though the ships might take him away from the place of duty,
they could not take him away from duty itself; that it were better to
bear poverty and privation than to bear a guilty conscience.

It is always darkest before day. In a few weeks an ordaining council
has assembled, his old pastor and theological teacher being among the
number. The harvest was ripe, waiting for the reapers to put in the
sickle, and what began as ecclesiastical council ended in a gracious
revival. The Arkansas lad was now a minister; the dream of his boyhood
was rapidly fulfilling.

Three years and a half passed. The field which at first seemed so
barren of promises had proved to be rich in opportunities. The
Louisiana Congregational Association holds its annual meeting with
him. His old pastor sends three other teachers. One of them, the wife
of "the Boss," returns with the other members of the ordaining council
to see what progress has been made.

Yes, this must be the place; for the railroad stops here, and yonder
is Vermillion Bay, and the anchored ships. This, too, must be the
young pastor; his limp betrays his identity, but the face, whose pure
native hue three years ago was darkened by the cloud of doubt is now
wreathed in smiles. Here, too, is the church, the same, yet not the
same; its former disfigured and unwashed face now shines in a new coat
of paint; the unfinished and leaky bell-tower has been repaired and
beautified; and those old benches, apparently designed for those
condemned to do penance, have been replaced by comfortable modern
seats, so that the worshipper's attention is no longer diverted from
the sermon by the painful consciousness of his physical sufferings.

But these changes, excellent in themselves, are by no means the
highest test of these years of faithful and consecrated service. The
twelve members with whom the new pastor began, have been nearly
sextupled; the Sunday-school has been organized, enlarged and
developed; a flourishing Christian Endeavor Society started; and right
conceptions of practical righteousness enforced. The pastor's
conception of his ministry includes a practical interest in education,
and since his advent an increasing stream of young people has been
flowing to Straight University. Thrifty himself, his contagious
enthusiasm has not only affected his own flock, but the community
generally, filling them with ambition to save their humble earnings,
and become owners of their own homes, and send their children to
school.

The esteem in which Mr. H. is held by the best white people of the
town was well illustrated at the recent meeting of the State
Association. They not only crowded into the church, filling every
available space for standing, but stood outside at the windows for
hours in earnest attention, in the chilly night air. So great had
their interest become that the last night of the Association, one
white man offered the pastor any price for a reserved seat for himself
and lady friends, and the town representative wrote him a polite note
asking for a seat for himself and family, and the next day the white
people offered to procure the courthouse, that we might have a larger
place for our meeting.

Newspapers and magazines are teeming, nowadays, with articles claiming
that our people's supreme need is industrially trained men to indicate
the road to prosperity. We gladly concede that there is need enough
and room enough for such men, but we part company with these advocates
when they intimate that we have too many liberally educated men. The
value of such well educated men may be seen in the example of Mr. H.,
who is only one of many young men who have gone forth from Straight
University and other A. M. A. institutions.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITEMS.

