Finally, if we must say so, we do not think that foreign powers, when they
believe it their duty to provide themselves with _materiel_ of great
caliber, will think of supplying themselves from the Essen works, on
account of the memorable accidents due to the imperfection of guns coming
from this celebrated establishment. The list of burstings that have
occurred, not only in Germany, but also in Russia, Bohemia, Italy, Turkey,
and Roumania, is already a long one. To speak here only of what occurred
in France in 1870-71, it is certain that out of seventy German guns of
large caliber in battery against the southwest front of the wall of Paris,
thirty-six--say more than half--were put out of service during the first
fifteen days of the bombardment, and that too through firing merely; and it
was the opinion of Mr. De Moltke himself that the German siege batteries
would have been reduced to silence, had the defenders been able to hold out
for a week longer. It is equally certain that, during the course of the
Loire campaign, eighty guns of Prince Frederick Charles' were put out of
service by the sole fact of their firing. Summing up the history of these
many accidents, the Duke of Cambridge asserted to the House of Lords (April
30, 1876) that _two hundred_ Krupp guns burst during the Franco-German war.
Have the engineers of the Essen works improved their processes of
manufacture since that epoch? It is permissible to doubt it, seeing that,
very recently, the Italian navy refused to take from Mr. Krupp some 15½
inch guns whose tubes were but very imperfectly welded.

Must the numerous accidents mentioned be attributed to defects in the metal
employed? Were they due to defective hooping? Were they due to some one of
the numerous inconveniences inherent to the cylindrico-prismatic system of
closing (_Rundkeilverschluss_)?

They were doubtless owing to such causes combined.--_La Nature_.

       *       *       *       *       *


COLORS OF THIN PLATES.


The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh lately delivered a lecture at the Royal
Institution upon "The Colors of Thin Plates," a term which he explained was
applied to thin films of substances, such as oily films on the surface of
water or the equally familiar soap bubble. Although the reflection of
colors from the surface of a soap bubble is probably the most noticeable,
yet the "plate" which lends itself most readily for experiment is a film of
air confined between two sheets of glass. If a ray of white light be
reflected from the surface of the film upon a screen, the so-called
Newton's rings, a series of colored concentric rings, are obtained. If,
instead of reflected light, the ray of light transmitted through the film
of air be allowed to fall upon the screen, the same phenomenon is
observable, but the effect is very considerably minimized, owing to the
great preponderance of white light, which overlies as it were the colored
rings. Even in the first instance, as the lecturer was able to show later
on, the colors are not nearly so intense as they may be obtained, owing to
some white light being reflected from the surfaces of the two sheets of
glass. With regard to the appearance of the phenomenon, it is observed that
the part which corresponds to the thinnest part of the film is considerably
darker than the rest of the spectrum; around this is a bright ring of
white, succeeded by constantly increasing concentric rings of different
colors apparently repeating themselves. Lord Rayleigh also obtained the
same results with a film of a solution of soap and glycerine, but in this
case the dark portion was observed at the top of the spectrum, the other
colors arranging themselves in order in the soap film thinned by the force
of gravitation, thus showing that the colors vary according to the
thickness of the film. Another form of the experiment called forth a
considerable amount of applause from the audience. Lord Rayleigh caused a
gentle stream of air to play obliquely upon a soap film, so that the part
struck was moved forward and the whole film rotated. Then with the
alteration of the force of the current of air, which of course regulated
the centrifugal force, alternating thicknesses of film were obtained,
causing a varying display of beautiful colors and combinations of colors.
This last experiment also tended to prove that the bands of color are not
arranged in a certain order, but vary according to the thickness of the
film, a conclusion arrived at by Brewster, who observed that if a film
reflecting certain colors be carefully inverted so as not to disturb the
gravity, the colors reflected are also inverted. Lord Rayleigh explained
the phenomenon by referring to Young's wave theory of light. He regarded
the film as having two surfaces from which light is reflected, an anterior
exterior surface and a posterior interior surface. If a ray of light be
thrown upon the film, a part of the light is reflected from the first
surface, but the greater part is transmitted, and some of this is reflected
from the second surface, passes back through the film, and is combined with
the light reflected from the first surface. If then the light reflected
from the second surface be in the same state of vibration as that reflected
from the first surface, the effect of their combination will be to increase
the amount of light reflected from the first surface, but if otherwise, the
effect will be a partial neutralization of the light reflected from the
first surface. That is to say, if the retardation of the light which is
reflected from the second surface, owing to its twice traversing the
thickness of the film, be equivalent to a wave length of the vibration of
the light, it will increase the intensity of the light reflected from the
first surface. If, however, the retardation be only equivalent to half a
wave length, the intensity of the light will be decreased. Thus, then, with
a ray of monochromatic light it will be seen that the effect of difference
in the thickness of the film will be to alter the intensity of the
reflected ray, but with a white light composed of several colors the result
will be more complicated. As each color has a different wave length in
vibration, it will be seen that each color will act independently of the
others, and a certain thickness of film which, upon the combination of the
two reflected rays, will cause one particular color to be intensified, will
at the same time cause the other colors to be more or less obscured.

Thus as the thickness of the film is altered different colors preponderate,
causing the appearance of rings or bands, according to the nature of the
experiment. The dark appearance on the screen corresponding to the thinnest
part of the film is probably due to refraction of the ray of light
reflected from the second surface, consequent in its passing from a rare
into a denser medium, and again from the denser medium into the rare, which
refraction Lord Rayleigh considers to effect a retardation equivalent to
half a wave length. Lord Rayleigh supported this theory of the formation of
Newton's rings by several interesting experiments. A beam of light was
intercepted by two of Nicol's prisms, one of which acted as a polarizer and
the other as an analyzer of the light, so that no light was able to pass
through both on to the screen. Between the two prisms a double refractive
lens was now placed, in this case a double concave lens of selenite, when
the same series of concentric rings observed with the film of air was
obtained on the screen, only much more intense, while a wedge of selenite
gave the bands of color in the same order as with the soap bubble.

But perhaps the most striking proof of the dependence of the colors upon
the thickness of the film was shown by the reflection of a beam of light
from a piece of mica composed of twenty-four very attenuated plates
overlapping each other. With each layer a marked gradation in color was
visible.

The remainder of the lecture was devoted to an explanation of the
determination of the chromatic relations of the colors of the spectrum.
Lord Rayleigh at this point made a rather startling statement that any
color can be produced by two other colors. As an example of such a
formation, a ray of white light was passed separately through a solution of
yellow chromate of potash and an alkaline litmus solution, throwing
respectively a yellow and violet-blue color upon the screen. When the ray
was made to pass through the two solutions successively, an orange-yellow
color was obtained upon the screen, which color Lord Rayleigh asserted to
be made up of red and green rays. To prove this, the ray of white light was
decomposed by means of a prism, and the decomposed rays passed through the
two solutions. The one solution was found to exclude all the yellow and
orange rays from the spectrum, while the other excluded all the blue and
violet rays, so that when the ray had passed through both solutions, only
the red and green rays were left. If, instead of allowing the decomposed
ray of light to pass through a slit, and thus obtain definite bands in the
spectrum, the ray was passed through a circular hole, the red and green
colors overlapped each other on the screen, forming by their combination
the identical orange-yellow color obtained with the primary white light. It
was then stated that if three definite positions be taken in a spectrum in
the red, green, and violet bands respectively, and these positions be
represented by the corners of an equilateral triangle (Clerk Maxwell's
triangle), it has been mathematically determined in what position within
this triangle the colors of Newton's rings would fall. Lord Rayleigh, by
means of a diagram and the selenite wedge, showed that the relations to the
three standard colors in practice were identical with the position assigned
them by theory.

In conclusion, the lecturer showed a piece of glass, the surface of which
had been decomposed, a ray of light transmitted through which showed upon
the screen patches of very pure color. These he considered to be due to the
glass consisting of a number of thin plates, some of which had been removed
by the decomposition.

       *       *       *       *       *


BELT JOINTS.


From time to time, serious accidents have taken place, and the progress of
work stopped, by the sudden snapping of driving belts in machinery, and, as
a general rule, it is found that the collapse is attributable either to
faulty leather or insecure joining. A great improvement of the leather
intended for belts has been brought about during the last few years, by the
introduction of improved processes for currying and the subsequent
treatment. Paterson has worked successfully a patent for rendering belt
leather more pliable, and lessening the tendency to stretch. Under this
treatment the leather is either curried or rough dried, and then soaked in
a solution of wood, resin, and gum thus, or frankincense, first melted
together, and then dissolved, by the application of heat, in boiled or
linseed oil. The leather, after this process, is soaked in petroleum or
carbon bisulphide containing a little India-rubber solution, and is finally
washed with petroleum benzoline. Should the mixture be found to be too
thick, it is thinned down with benzoline spirit until it is about the
consistency of molasses at the ordinary temperature. The leather so
prepared is not liable to stretch, and can be joined in the usual way by
copper riveting, or the ends can be sewn. A good material for smaller
belts, and for strings and bands for connecting larger ones, is that
recently patented by Vornberger, in which the gut of cattle is the basis.
After careful cleansing, the gut is split up into strands, and treated with
a bath of pearlash water for several days. The strands are then twisted
together, and after being dipped in a solution of Condy's fluid, are dried.
They are then sulphured in a wooden box for twenty-four hours, after which
the twisting can be completed. They are by this process rendered pliable,
and can be used in this state for stitching the leather ends of larger
belts, or can be stiffened by plunging them into a bath of isinglass and
white wine vinegar. After drying they are susceptible of a fine polish,
emery cloth being usually employed, and the final "finish" is given to the
material with gum arabic and oil.

Canvas and woven fabrics, coated with India-rubber, are also now being used
for driving belts and for covering machine rollers. As this material can be
made in one piece, without the necessity of a joint, it is uniform in
strength, and is recommended as a substitute for leather belts requiring
joints. A patented material of this description is due to Zingler, who
boils the canvas or similar woven fabric under pressure in a solution of
tungstate of soda for three hours. It is then transferred to a bath of
acetate of lead solution, and drained, dried, and stretched. When in this
condition it is coated, by means of a spreading machine, with repeated
layers of a composition consisting of India-rubber, antimony sulphide,
peroxide of iron, sulphur, lime, asbestos, chalk, sulphate of zinc, and
carbonate of magnesia. When a sufficient thickness of this composition has
been applied, it is vulcanized under pressure at a temperature of 250° F.,
or a little higher. The material produced in this manner is said to have
the strength and durability of the best leather belts. Attempts have
recently been made to obtain a glue suitable for joining the ends of
driving belts, without the use of metal fastenings or sewing, and Messrs.
David Kirkaldy & Son have reported favorably on such a belt glue, which is
being introduced by Mr. W.V. Van Wyk, of 30 and 31 Newgate street, E.C. In
the test applied by them, a joint of this "Hercules glue," as it is called,
in a 4 in. single belt was stronger than the solid leather. When a tensile
stress of 2,174 lb., equivalent to 2,860 lb. per square inch of section,
was applied, the leather gave way, leaving the joint intact. Belts
fastened by a scarf joint with this glue are said to be of absolutely the
same thickness and pliability at the joint as in the main portion of the
belt, and thus insure freedom from noise and perfect steadiness. The
instructions for use are simple, and it requires only fifteen minutes for
the joint to set before being ready for use. From a rough chemical analysis
of the sample submitted to us, we find that it consists of gelatine, with
small amounts of mineral ingredients. Josef Horadam, some few years ago,
patented in Germany a process for preserving glues from decomposition, by
the addition of from 8 to 10 per cent. of magnesium or calcium chlorides.
The addition of these salts does not impair in any way the strength of the
glue, but prevents it from decomposing, and it may be that the "Hercules
glue" is preserved in a similar manner.

A cement of this nature, if thoroughly to be relied on, must be of great
value, although the great variation in the quality of leather, apart from
the difficulty hitherto experienced of securely connecting the ends
together, opens a wide field for a material of uniform composition, and
capable of being made in one piece in suitable lengths for driving belts
and other machine gear.--_Industries._

       *       *       *       *       *


INAUGURATION OF THE STATUE OF DENIS PAPIN.


A large crowd was present recently at the inauguration of the statue of
Denis Papin, which took place in the court of the Conservatoire des Arts et
Metiers, under the presidency of Mr. Lockroy, Minister of Commerce and the
Industries.

[Illustration: DENIS PAPIN.]

In the large hall in which the addresses were made there were several
municipal counselors, the representatives of the Minister of War, Captains
Driant and Frocard, several members of the Institute, and others. A
delegation from the Syndical Chamber of Conductors, Enginemen, and Stokers,
which contributed through a subscription toward the erection of the statue,
was present at the ceremony with its banner. Mr. Lanssedat, superintendent
of the Conservatoire, received the guests, assisted by all the professors.
Mr. Lanssedat opened the proceedings by an address in which he paid homage
to the scientists who were persecuted while living, to Denis Papin, who did
for mechanics what Nicolas le Blanc did for chemistry, and to those men
whose entire life was devoted to the triumph of the cause of science.

After this, an address was delivered by Mr. Lockroy, who expatiated upon
the great services rendered by the master of all the sciences known at that
epoch, who was in turn physician, physicist, mechanician, and
mathematician, and who, in discovering the properties of steam, laid the
foundation of modern society, which, so to speak, arose from this
incomparable discovery.

Speeches were afterward made by Mr. Feray d'Essonnes, president of the
Syndical Chamber of Conductors, Enginemen, and Stokers, and by Prof.
Comberousse, of the Central School, who broadly outlined the life of Papin.

Along about four o'clock, the Minister of Commerce and the Industries,
followed by all the invited guests, repaired to the court, and the veil
that hid the statue was then lifted amid acclamation.

Papin is represented as standing and performing an experiment.

Upon the pedestal is the following inscription:

    DENIS PAPIN
    BORN IN 1647, DIED ABOUT 1714,
    INVENTED THE STEAM ENGINE
    IN 1690

    NATIONAL SUBSCRIPTION, 1886.

The inauguration is due to the initiative of Mr. Lanssedat, for it was he
who in 1885 suggested the national subscription, which was quickly raised.

Denis Papin was born at Blois on the 22d of August, 1647. He was the son of
a physician. After the example of his father and of several of his
relatives, he studied medicine and took his degree; but his taste for
mathematics, and especially for experimental physics, soon led him to
abandon medicine.

It was in 1690 that he published in the _Actes_ of Leipsic the memoir which
will forever and irrevocably assign to him the priority in the invention of
steam engines and steamboats, and the title of which was: "New method of
cheaply obtaining the greatest motive powers."

In 1704, Papin, poor and obliged to do everything for himself, finished his
first steamboat; but for want of money he was unable to make a trial of it
until August 15, 1707. The trial was made upon the Fulda and Wera,
affluents of the Weser.

The operation succeeded wonderfully, and, shortly afterward, Papin, being
desirous of rendering the experiment complete, put his boat on the Weser;
but the stupid boatmen of this river drew his craft ashore and broke it and
its engine in pieces.

This catastrophe ruined Papin, and annihilated all his hopes. The great
man, falling into shocking destitution, broken down and conquered by
adversity, returned to England in 1712 to seek aid and an asylum.

Everywhere repulsed, he returned to Cassel about 1714, sad and discouraged;
and the man to whom we owe that prodigy, the steam engine, that instrument
of universal welfare and riches, disappeared without leaving any trace of
his death.--_Le Monde Illustre._

       *       *       *       *       *


DECORATION.

THE STUDY OF ORNAMENTS.

[Footnote: _Authorities consulted in preparing this paper:_ "Analysis of
Ornament," Wornum; "Truth, Beauty, and Power," Dresser; "Lectures on Art."
F.W. Moody; "Hopes and Fears for Art," Wm. Morris; "Ornamental Art," Hulme;
"Manuals of Art Education," Prang.]

By MISS MARIE R. GARESCHE, St. Louis High School.


Decoration is the science and art of beautifying objects and rendering them
more pleasing to the eye. As an art, individual taste and skill have much
to do with the perfection of the results; as a science, it is subject to
certain invariable laws and principles which cannot be violated, and a
study of which, added to familiarity with some of the best examples, will
enable any one to appreciate and understand it, even if lacking the skill
and power to create original and beautiful designs.

The study of decoration offers many advantages. It cultivates the
imagination and the taste; it develops our capacity for recognizing and
enjoying the beautiful in both nature and art; it adds to the pleasure and
refinement of life. Practically, its importance can hardly be
overestimated, as it enters into almost all the industrial pursuits. We can
think of but few classes of objects, even the most simple, in which some
attempt at ornamentation is not made.

Ornament is one of the principal means of enhancing the value of the raw
material. A piece of carved wood, or an artistically decorated porcelain
vase, worth perhaps many hundred dollars, if reduced to the commercial
value of the material of which they are composed would be valued at but a
few dollars or cents. The higher the ornamentation ranks, from an artistic
point of view, the greater becomes the value of the article to which it is
applied. Knowledge of good designs is thus evidently important, to the
purchaser of the object ornamented as well as to the designer who planned
it. This can only be attained by cultivation.

To know and appreciate the best ornament should be an aim set forth in any
scheme of general education. This knowledge and appreciation can be
obtained by studying the application of the laws and principles of
ornamental art as exemplified in the works of masters, and also by
endeavoring to apply these principles in designs of our own creation.


PRINCIPLES OF ORNAMENT.

We can only arrive at a knowledge of these principles by a consideration of
the object. In other words, nature and history must be studied. First,
_nature_, for she is the primary source and origin of all good ornament,
whether ancient or modern; and if, as in everything else, we would not
become servile imitators and weak copyists, we must go to the fountain
head. Second, _history_, for by the study of the ornament of past ages we
will not only become acquainted with the highest developments of which
ornamental art is capable, but will moreover broaden our views as to its
object and scope, and will stimulate our own imagination and invention, by
leading us to the contemplation of the myriad beautiful and protean forms
it has assumed, when surrounding conditions, such as religion, climate,
temperament, nationality, etc., have been different. Knowledge of historic
ornament will also prevent the imposition on the public, so common in our
day, of weak and unworthy productions which claim to be based on classic
originals, and which constitute a great stumbling block to the progress and
appreciation of good art. The result is somewhat analogous to that produced
upon conscientious but ill-informed minds, who make every effort to
appreciate and enjoy the spurious productions of a great author, not
knowing that they are not genuine.


POSITION AND SCOPE OF ORNAMENTAL OR DECORATIVE ART.

I. _Object of Ornamental Art._--The object or purpose of ornament, as in
the other fine arts, is to please. In music and poetry this enjoyment is
conveyed to the mind through the ear; in the decorative and pictorial arts,
through the eye. Generally, the meaning that we find in such productions,
the appeal that they make to the understanding or feelings, is as great a
source of interest to us as their intrinsic beauty. Poetry and vocal music
are greatly dependent for their effect upon the meaning they convey in
words; painting and sculpture, upon the ideas or sentiments they suggest.
In all four, however, and most decidedly in music unaccompanied by words,
the appeal is frequently made almost exclusively to the æsthetic sense, the
mind or intellect remaining almost dormant under the impression. Gems of
rhythmical verse, such as Poe's "Bells," "The Raven," Whistler's
"Symphonies in Color," nameless forms in statuary, expressionless save in
the mere beauty of their proportions and curves, and, as has been stated,
nearly the entire field of instrumental music, are cases in point. In the
ornamental and decorative arts, as well as in architecture (from which they
are indeed inseparable), beauty alone, in like manner, should be the
principal aim and purpose. In the former, of course, it is indispensable
that such should be the case, as they are entirely subordinate and
accessory in their nature, their only _raison d'etre_ being to beautify or
render more agreeable objects already created for some purpose.

It must not be imagined that such artistic impressions--viz., where the
appeal is made almost solely to the æsthetic sense, regardless of the
reason, judgment, or feelings--are necessarily of a lower order. Their
effect is almost analogous to that which nature herself produces upon
us--the starry heavens, the mighty ocean, the tender flower. The
impression, whether the object belongs to the domain of nature or art, may
be a merely sensuous one; and if it stops there, as it certainly does for
the majority of people, it ranks without doubt far below productions where
the æsthetic element is only used to stimulate and heighten the appeal to
the mind or the feelings. But if it extend beyond, and makes the sensuous
impression but the parting link to the contemplation of ideal, abstract
beauty, without the intermediate aid of the heart or the reason, it is the
shortest and quickest road toward the realization of the infinite, and
makes us indeed feel that it is but a short step "from nature up to
nature's God." Thus architecture, which embodies, more than any other of
the space arts, principles of abstract beauty, has been with reason called
the noblest of them all.

However, ornamental and architectural forms frequently do convey a meaning,
which we term symbolism in art. If this symbolism does not detract from the
first object of ornament--viz., to beautify--it is perfectly legitimate and
proper. It is impossible to fully appreciate many phases of art, as, for
instance, the Egyptian and the early Christian, if we leave out of sight
the symbolism which pervades them.

While beauty, or capacity for pleasing the eye, may be very definitely said
to be the aim of ornamental art, it is difficult to arrive at a universal
standard as to what constitutes beauty. What pleases one person will not
always please another. The child loves glittering objects and gaudy
combinations, which the mature taste of the man declares extravagant and
unharmonious. Savages decorate their weapons, utensils, and their own
persons with ornaments that appear uncouth and barbarous to civilized
people.

Besides these differences in taste, which are due to different degrees of
mental development, and which can consequently be easily disposed of, we
find among highly civilized and cultured nations, at different periods, a
great diversity of tastes. These varying and sometimes apparently
conflicting products of ornamental art we designate as styles, viz.,
Egyptian style, Greek style, Gothic style, etc. So marked are the
differences between them that we can sometimes tell at a glance to what
period and to what style a small fragment of decoration belongs.

Notwithstanding these differences, which at first may appear very great, a
careful study of the best styles--those that achieved the greatest and most
lasting popularity--will reveal the fact that they are all based upon
certain fundamental laws and principles, and that all are good, bad, or
indifferent according as they conform to or violate these principles. These
essentials having been preserved, the opportunities for the exercise of
individual or national taste are almost boundless.

II. _Position of Ornament._--The position that ornament occupies is
necessarily a secondary one, as it cannot exist independently, but is
always applied to objects created for some purpose entirely independent of
their capacity for pleasing. This gives us one of the great underlying
principles that should characterize all ornament, viz., _it must be
subordinate to the object which it adorns, and must not detract from its
use_. We often see this rule violated in personal, household, and
architectural decoration--windows so overloaded with projecting cornices
and lattice work as to almost exclude light and air; knife handles carved
so elaborately that it is impossible to grasp them firmly; styles of dress
in form or color that impede the motions of the wearer, and make the
clothes, rather than the personality of the wearer, the most noticeable
feature. From this principle there is but a step to another: _All ornament
should be modest and moderate_. It must not obtrude itself, and a great
profusion and ostentation in its application is always a sign of degeneracy
and bad taste. Of course some objects, from their nature, position, and
use, will admit of greater and more elaborate ornament than others.

Ornament, being entirely subordinate, should not conceal the construction
of the object. In architecture it should follow the leading lines of the
building, and should emphasize, or at least suggest, the construction. If
architectural in character, it should so enter into the construction of the
building that it could not be taken away without injuring it.

We must feel that a column, no matter how beautiful, is supporting
something. A floor, always a plane surface, must not be tiled or decorated
in any way to express relief. This would apparently destroy the essential
constructive quality of a floor, viz., flatness. For the same reason, all
shams, such as painted arches, pillars, etc., are not legitimate. As long
as they do not actually exist, they are evidently not necessary to the
construction, and have no purpose save an imaginary decorative one, and in
the words of Owen Jones, _construction must be decorated--not decoration
constructed_.

III. _Scope of Ornament._--The scope of ornamental art is almost boundless.
It is applied to objects large and small, adapted to the most various uses,
constructed of the most different materials. As the ornamentation is always
to be subordinate to the object, considerations regarding size, use,
position, material, etc., must govern it. An ornament that would be
admirable applied to one object, might be detestable if applied to another.
A design cannot be made without reference to its future application.

First: The material must be considered. Heavy and hard materials, such as
wood and stone, will not admit of as delicate curves and lines as textile
fabrics, such as cotton and woolen goods, laces, etc.

Second: The manner in which the article is to be made, whether by weaving,
cutting, carving, casting, etc.

Third: The position the object is to occupy. If elevated or otherwise
remote from the eye, elaborate finish and minute detail are useless.
Ornamental art, from time immemorial, has attained its greatest excellence
and exercised its greatest influence in connection with architecture.

