Former authorities have been unwilling to admit that the domestic
sheep have come from any species of wild sheep of the present time.
They hold that they are the descendants of one or more species of wild
sheep that are now extinct. Recently, however, men have thought more
deeply and freely on such subjects, and Nehring and others have traced
the modern tame sheep back to the mouflon, but not to him alone. It is
thought that in this case, as with other domestic animals, there has
been a mixture of species, and in this connection attention was
directed to the Transcaspian arkal, the argalis of the interior of
Asia and the North African species. Dr. Heck, director of the Berlin
Zoological Garden, thinks that the horns of the tame ram, which are
turned outward, the points being directed away from the body,
constitute one of the strongest proofs that the blood of the argalis
and its extinct European ancestors--which are known only by the fossil
remains--flows in the veins of all domestic sheep.

The other characteristic marks of the domestic sheep--the wool and the
length of the tail--vary greatly. The heath sheep--the little,
contented, weather-hardened grazing sheep of the Lüneburg and other
heaths--belong to one of the oldest species, and their tails are as
short and their horns as dark as those of the moufflon. A cross
between these two breeds is not distinguishable, even in the second
generation, as has been shown by the interesting experiments in the
Düsseldorf Zoological Garden.

[Illustration: HEATH SHEEP.]

The little, black and red-spotted Cameroons sheep, from the western
coast of Africa, have not a trace of wool. But why should they have?
The negroes need no clothing, and, consequently, they have not bred
sheep with wool; and, besides, such an animal could not live in the
tropics, even if the black man were a much better stock raiser and
breeder than he is. The mane on the neck, and breast of the Cameroons
ram reminds one of the North American sheep; but it must be remembered
that the mouflon and arkal rams have this ornament quite clearly,
although not so strongly defined.

[Illustration: CAMEROONS SHEEP.]

The large, short-bodied and long-legged sheep found in the interior of
western and northern Africa are a complete contrast to the
short-legged, long-bodied little Cameroons sheep. There is a very
valuable pair of the former in the Berlin Zoological Garden--the
Haussa sheep--which are very regularly marked, the front parts of
their bodies being red and the hind parts white. They were brought
from the neighborhood of Say, on the middle Niger, by the Togo
Hinterland expedition. The ram has beautiful horns, and the ewe is
distinguished by two strange, tassel-like pendants of skin that hang
from her neck. This zoological garden also possesses a fine ram from
the interior of Tunis, which is similar in shape to the Haussa ram,
but has shorter horns and a heavier mane. Its color is grayish black.

[Illustration: RAM FROM TUNIS.]

[Illustration: HAUSSA RAM.]

[Illustration: HAUSSA EWE.]

Dr. Heck considers the long tail of the domestic sheep the chief
impediment to the adoption of the theory of its descent from the
short-tailed wild sheep. And yet, in sheep, this member is of
secondary importance, for it varies greatly in form. The short-tailed
heath sheep are just the opposite of the fat-tailed Persian sheep,
which are represented in a fabulous account as being obliged to draw
their broad tails, that weighed 40 pounds, behind them on wheels.
These are the sheep that supply the Astrakan and Persian lamb which is
so much worn now. The fur is caused to lie in peculiar waves or tight
rings by sewing the newly born lamb in a tightly fitting covering
which keeps the fur from being mussed. In the Berlin Zoological Garden
there is a very fine four-horned, fat-tailed ram, from the steppes on
the lower Volga. From this region come also the large-boned,
fat-rumped sheep, which have a large mass of fat on each side of the
stunted tail. In the illustration this peculiarity does not show well,
on account of the thick winter wool. Their color is red, with dirty
white. When Wissman and Bumiller returned from their last expedition,
they brought a fine ram of a different breed of fat-rumped sheep,
which are raised by the Kirghise, on the Altai Mountains. They are
smaller than those from the steppes of the Volga, but have finer wool,
and evidently belong to a finer breed. As mutton tallow is very
useful, and has been used even from the most ancient times by sheep
raisers in the preparation of food, they prize sheep with these masses
of fat on the tail and rump, which were purposely developed to the
greatest possible degree.

[Illustration: FAT-TAILED SHEEP (FOUR-HORNED RAM).]

[Illustration: FAT-RUMPED SHEEP.]

The steinbock and the chamois, which live in the highest mountains,
are still found, but other breeds, such as the argalis, which
inhabited the foot hills and the high table lands, have disappeared,
as Europe has become more thickly populated. We know that they
formerly lived there, by the fossil remains of the oldest Pliocene in
England (Ovis Savinii Newton), of the caves of bones near Stramberg in
Moravia (Ovis argaloides Nehring), and of the diluvial strata near
Puy-de-Dôme Mountain in the south of France (Ovis antiqua Pommerol).

For the above and the accompanying illustrations we are indebted to
Daheim.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Continued from SUPPLEMENT, No. 1172, page 18756.]


PATENTS.[1]

    [Footnote 1: To be presented at the Niagara Falls meeting (June,
    1898) of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and
    forming part of Vol. six of the Transactions.]

By JAMES W. SEE, Hamilton, Ohio, Member of the Society.


EMPLOYERS' RIGHTS.

An invention, to be patented, must be applied for by the actual
inventor, and in the absence of acts constituting a transfer, the
patent, and all legal ownership in it, and all rights under it, go
exclusively to the inventor. In the absence of express or implied
contract, a mere employer of the inventor has no rights under the
patent. Only contracts or assignments give to the employer, or to
anyone else, a license or a partial or entire ownership in the patent.
The equity of this may be appreciated by examples. A journeyman
carpenter invents an improvement in chronometer escapements and
patents it. The man who owns the carpenter shop has no shadow of claim
on or under this patent. Again, the carpenter invents and patents an
improvement in jack planes. The shop owner has no rights in or under
the patent. Again, the carpenter invents an improvement in window
frames, and the shop owner has no rights. He has no right even to make
the patented window frame without license. The shop owner, in merely
employing the carpenter, acquires no rights to the carpenter's
patented inventions. But there are cases in which an implied license
would go to the shop owner. For instance, if the carpenter was
employed on the mutual understanding that he was particularly
ingenious in devising carpenter work, and capable of improving upon
the products of the shop; and if in the course of his work he devised
a new and patentable window frame, and developed it in connection with
his employment and at the expense of his employer; and if the new
frames were made by the employer without protest from the carpenter,
the carpenter could, of course, patent the new frame, but he could not
oust the employer in his right to continue making the invention, for
it would be held that the employer had acquired an implied license.

If he could not use it, then he would not be getting the very
advantage for which he employed this particular carpenter, and if he
did get that right, he would be getting all that he employed the
carpenter for, and that right would not be at all lessened by the fact
that the carpenter had a patent under which he could license other
people. The patent does not constitute the right to make or use or
sell, for such right is enjoyed without a patent. The patent
constitutes the "exclusive" right to make, sell or use, and this the
shop owner does not get unless he specially bargains for it. Implied
licenses stand on delicate ground, and where men employ people of
ingenious talent, with the understanding that the results of such
talent developed during the employment shall inure to the benefit of
the employer, there is only one safeguard, and that is to found the
employment on a contract unmistakably setting forth the understanding.


NEW PURPOSE.

If an invention is old, it is old regardless of any new purpose to
which it is put. It is no invention to put a machine to a new use. If
an inventor contrives a meritorious machine for the production of
coins or medals, his invention is lacking in novelty if it should
appear that such a machine had before been designed as a soap press,
and this fact is not altered by any merely structural or formal
difference, such as difference in power or strength, due to the
difference in duty. The invention resides in the machine and not in
the use of it. If the soap press is covered by an existing patent,
that patent is infringed by a machine embodying that invention,
regardless of whether the infringing machine be used for pressing soap
or silver. And it is no invention to discover some new capacity in an
old invention. An inventor is entitled to all the capacities of his
invention.


COMBINATION CLAIMS.

Many people have an erroneous notion regarding patent claims, and
consider the expression "combination" as an element of weakness. The
fact is, that all mechanical claims that are good for anything are
combination claims. No claim for an individual mechanical element has
come under my notice for many years and I doubt if a new mechanical
element has been lately invented. All claims resolve themselves into
combinations, whether so expressed or not. Combination does not
necessarily imply separateness of elements. The improved carpet tack
is after all but a peculiar combination of body and head and barbs.
The erroneous public contempt for combination claims is based upon the
legal maxim, that if you break the combination you avoid the claim and
escape infringement, and this legal maxim should be well understood in
formulating the claims. If the claim calls for five elements and the
competitor can omit one of the elements, he escapes infringement.
Therefore, the claim is good only when it recites no elements which
are not essential.

Many inventors labor under the delusion that a claim is strong in
proportion to the extent of its array of elements. The exact opposite
is the truth, and that claim is the strongest which recites the
fewest number of elements. It is the duty of the inventor to analyze
his invention and know what is and what is not essential to its
realization. It is the duty of the patent solicitor to sift out the
essential from the non-essential, and to draft claims covering broad
combinations involving only essential elements. Sometimes the inventor
will help him in this matter, but quite as often he will, through
ignorance, hinder him and combat him. The invention having been
carefully analyzed and reduced to its prime factors, and the claim
having been provided to comprise a combination involving no element
which is not essential to a realization of the invention, a new and
more important question arises. The elements have been recited in
terms fitted to the example of the invention thus far developed. The
combination is broadly stated, but the terms of the elements are
limiting. Cannot some ingenious infringer realize the invention by a
similar combination escaping the literalism of the terms of the
elements? It is at this stage that the claim must be carefully
studied. The inventor, or some one for him, must assume the position
of a pirate, and set his wits to work to contrive an organization
realizing the invention but escaping the terms of the proposed claim.
When such an escaping device is schemed out, then the defect in the
claim is developed and the claim must be redrawn. In this way every
possible escape must be studied so as to secure to the inventor
adequate protection for his invention. Solicitors find it difficult to
get inventors to do or consider this matter properly, inventors being
too often inclined to disparage alternative constructions, the matter
being largely one of sentiment founded on the love of offspring.

The wise inventor will recognize the fact that the patent which he
proposes to get is the deed to valuable property; that the object of
the deed is not to permit him to enter upon the property, for he can
do that without the deed, but that it is to keep strangers from
entering upon the property; that he desires to enjoy his invention
without unauthorized competition; that when the property begins to
yield profit it will invite competition; that competitors may make
machines worse than or as good as or better than his; and that he can
get adequate protection only in a claim which would bar poorer as well
as better machines embodying his invention. Briefly, then, all good
claims for mechanism are combination claims; the fewer the elements
recited, the stronger will the claim be; non-essential elements weaken
or destroy the claim; the claim should not be considered satisfactory
so long as a way is seen for the escape of the ingenious pirate.


COMBINATIONS AND AGGREGATIONS.

A given association of mechanical elements may be entirely new, but it
does not follow that it forms a patentable association, for not all
new things are patentable. If the new association is a combination, it
is patentable, but if it is a mere aggregation, it is unpatentable. An
association may be new and still all of its separate elements may be
old, the act of invention lying in the fact that the elements have
been so associated with relation to each other as to bring about an
improved result, or an improved means for an old result. All new
machines are, after all, composed of old elements. The law presupposes
that the elements are old, and that the invention resides in the
peculiar association of them. If we take a given mechanical element,
recognized as having had a certain capacity, and if we then similarly
take some other mechanical element and employ it only for its
previously recognized capacity, and if we then add the third element
for its recognized capacity, we have in the end only an association of
three elements each performing its well recognized individual office,
and the entire association performing only the sum of the recognized
individual elements. Such an association is a mere aggregation, a mere
adding together of elements, without making the sum of the results any
greater in the association than it was in the individual elements. It
is simply adding two to one and getting three as a result. An
aggregation is unpatentable. As an illustration, a heavy marble statue
of Jupiter is found in the parlor and difficult to move. Ordinary
casters are put under its pedestal and it becomes easier to move.
Modern anti-friction two-wheeled casters are substituted for the
commoner casters, and the statue becomes still easier to move. Casters
were never before associated with a statue of Jupiter. Here is a new
association, but it is a mere aggregation. The statue of Jupiter has
been unmodified by the presence of the casters, and the casters
perform precisely the same under the statue of Jupiter that they did
under the bedstead. There is no combined result, and there is no
patentable combination.

But if an inventor takes a given mechanical element for the purpose of
its well recognized capacity, and then associates with it another
mechanical element for its recognized capacity, but so associates the
two elements that one has a modifying effect upon the capacity of the
other element, then the association will be capable of a result
greater than the sum of the results for the individual elements. This
excessive result is not due to the individual elements, but to the
combination of them. One has been added to one and a sum greater than
two has been secured. The modification of result may be due merely to
the bringing of the two elements together, so that they may mutually
act upon each other, or it may be due to the manner or means by which
they are joined. In a patentable combination the separate elements
mutually act upon each other to effect a modification of their
previous individual results, and secure a conjoint result greater than
the sum of the individual results. The elements of a combination need
not act simultaneously; they may act successively, or some may act
without motion. As an illustration, assume an old watch in which there
was a stem for setting the hands, and assume another old watch with a
stem for winding the spring. If an inventor should make a watch, and
provide it with the two stems, he would have only an aggregation. But
if he employed but one stem, and so located it that it could be used
at will for setting the hands or for winding the spring, then he would
have produced a combination. The particular instance just given is not
a case of the same number of elements, producing a result in excess of
the individual results of the separate elements, but is rather a case
of a lesser number of elements, producing a combination result equal
to the sum of the previous results of a greater number of elements. A
better example would perhaps be a new watch with its two old stems so
related that either could be used for setting the hands or for winding
the spring.


GENERA AND SPECIES.

