Lower down, filled up by another, is the place whence used frequently
to arise a tall, almost gaunt, figure, which, with voice and
manner indicating close associations with the Church pulpit, read
from manuscript neatly-constructed answers designed to crush
HENNIKER-HEATON. A kindly man and an able was RAIKES, who did not
obtain full recognition for his administration of the office to which
he was called.

On the other side of the House a great gap is made by the withdrawal
of PARNELL from the scene. A second, of quite other association, yawns
where genial DICK POWER used to sit, and wonder what on earth he did
in this galley, when he might have been riding to hounds in County
Waterford. HARTINGTON gone, too, an unspeakable loss to gentlemen on
the benches immediately behind. Many are the weary hours they have
wiled away wondering whether, at the next backward jerk of the head
of the sleeping statesman, his hat would tumble off, or whether
catastrophe would be further postponed. In HARTINGTON's place sits
CHAMBERLAIN, much too wide awake to afford opportunity for speculation
on that or cognate circumstance.

In his old corner-seat, in friendly contiguity, with his revered
friend on the Treasury Bench, GRANDOLPH lounges contemplative. Met him
earlier in afternoon. Passed us in corridor as I was talking to the
MARKISS, who was anxious to know how the dinner went off last night,
at which nephew ARTHUR appeared in character of the New Host at
Downing Street. The MARKISS looked narrowly at GRANDOLPH as he passed
with head hung down, tugging at his moustache.

"You remember TOBY, what HEINE said of DE MUSSET? 'A young man with a
great future--behind him.' There he goes."

"Don't you believe it, my Lord," I said, with the frankness that
endears me to the aristocracy. "You'll make a grave mistake if you act
upon that view of GRANDOLPH's position."

"Ah, well," said the MARKISS, a little hastily; "I must go and see
STRATHEDEN AND CAMPBELL about this Portugal business."

As he strode off I thought how precise and graphic remains
Lord LYTTON's description of him, written before he came to the
Premiership:--

  "The large slouching shoulder, as oppressed
    By the prone head, habitually stoops
  Above a world his contemplative gaze
    Peruses, finding little there to praise."

Sorry I vexed him.

Some disappointment at GRANDOLPH's appearance. Hoped he might do
honour to occasion by presenting himself in the attire clad in which
he of late roamed through Mashonaland. It would have been much more
picturesque than either of the uniforms in which mover and seconder
of Address are obviously and uncomfortably sewn up preparatory to
reciting the bald commonplace of their studiously conned lesson.

"He might at least," said CHAPLIN, who, as Minister for Agriculture,
takes an interest in specimens of animal produce, "have brought with
him the skin of one of those nine lions he shot from the oak in which
CHARLES THE FIRST took refuge."

[Illustration: "No gun made would carry so far."]

GRANDOLPH affects not to hear this whispered remark. It was
addressed to NICHOLAS WOOD, who, leaning over back of Treasury
Bench, laboriously explains that CHAPLIN is a little mixed; that the
oak-tree to which he alludes was grown on English ground--wasn't it
in Worcestershire?--and therefore could not afford a safe place of
retreat whence lions might be potted in Central Africa.

"There is," said NICHOLAS, emphatically, "no gun made that would carry
so far."

"Pish!" said CHAPLIN, somewhat inconsequentially.

GRANDOLPH looks across at Front Opposition Bench, and wonders how
Mr. G. is enjoying himself in the Sunny South. "Younger than any of
'em," GRANDOLPH admits. "Odd that with a general sweeping away of the
Leaders in their places last Session, only he should be left. Expect
he'll see us all out."

"Order! order!"

'Tis the voice of the SPEAKER. I thought he'd complain.

"Notices of Motion!" he calls, in sonorous voice. Then the dreary
business begins, MILMAN having all the fun to himself as he pulls
a lucky number put of the Ballot Box, and Members rise in long
succession, giving notice of interminable Bills and Motions, just as
they did at the beginning of last Session, when HARTINGTON slept on
the Front Opposition Bench, when OLD MORALITY fidgetted uneasily in
the seat of Leader, and when PARNELL stood with his back to the wall
in Committee Room No. 15.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRULY AND REELLY.--Why didn't they at once elect COTTON, Alderman,
Poet, and Haberdasher, for the office of City Chamberlain, without
waiting for a show of hands and the rest of it? Of course COTTON ought
to have been elected right off the reel.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE.--Rejected Communications or Contributions, whether MS.,
Printed Matter, Drawings, or Pictures of any description, will in no
case be returned, not even when accompanied by a Stamped and Addressed
Envelope, Cover, or Wrapper. To this rule there will be no exception.