  And rolling with laughter, at varying speeds
  The New Navy sped to the Old Navy's needs;
  Unblushingly paintless, by units or lots,
  Came drifters and trawlers and whalers and yachts;
  And, heedless of Discipline Acts, I've been told,
  The New Navy cheerfully winked at the Old.

  Without any pride but the pride of its race,
  The New Navy took its historical place
  In warfare on quite unconventional lines
  As hunting sea vermin or sweeping for mines,
  Till the sea would agree when a battleship swore
  That surely they'd helped an Old Navy before.

  Through Summer and Autumn, through Winter and Spring
  The Old Navy patiently guarded the ring.
  The while the Auxiliaries out on the blue
  Were making the most of the flag that they flew,
  And a cruiser would call to her sister, astern,
  "Precocious as ever, they've nothing to learn!"

  The Old Navy stretched as they got under way
  To take the Surrender that fell on a Day,
  And the drifters and trawlers looked on from afar
  At the cruisers and battleships winning the War,
  And, cheering the conquest with ev'ry good wish,
  Prepared to go back to their nets and their fish.

  But scarce had the fishing fleet time to turn round
  When there fell on their ears a remarkable sound,
  And some who were present have given their word
  That the roll of DRAKE'S drum through the squadrons was heard;
  Resulted a sequel as strange as it's true,
  The Old Navy solemnly winked at the New.

  The moral is simple but worthy of note
  Whenever the spirit of DRAKE is afloat,
  There's only one Navy when foes come to grips,
  And nobody knows it so well as the ships,
  And so when the small craft are blessed by the Board,
  Demurely they murmur: "_New_ Navy? Oh, Lord!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BEAUTY COLUMN.

(_LATEST STYLE._)

We four are _such_ friends, Estelle, Rosalie, Beryl and I. If we
weren't could we sit round and say the things to each other that we
do? I ask you.

It's quite a small flat we have, just the one room, but it's _so_
convenient. There's a chemist's next door, so it's no walk to get
_everything_ we require.

We were sitting round our cosy fireplace, wishing it were summer or
that we had some coal, when one of those thoughts that make me so
loved occurred to me.

"Estelle darling," I asked, though I knew, because the box was on the
mantelpiece; "how _do_ you get that lovely flush? Your nose is such a
_delicious_ tint; it reminds me of a tomato."

"I owe my colour to my fur coat," replied Estelle frankly; "you've
no idea how warm it keeps me. I think a natural glow is so much more
becoming than an artificial one."

"By the way, Madge," put in Rosalie (I'm Madge), "as you've started
the game may I ask you a question? How do you get such a lovely shine
on _your_ nose?"

"Chamois leather," I replied sweetly. (You see we're such friends we
love telling each other our boudoir secrets.)

"I wish I knew how you keep those cunning little curls, Estelle,"
sighed Beryl longingly. "_My_ hair is so horribly straight."

"It's quite easy," explained Estelle; "you can do it with any ordinary
flat-iron, though of course an electric-iron is the best. If you heat
the iron over the gas or fire (if any) it gets sooty, and if you've
golden hair, as I have this year--well. Only," she went on warningly,
"always see that you lay your curl flat on the table before you iron
it."

"I wish I could get my hands as white as yours, Beryl," I said.

"You can't expect to, darling; working at Whitehall as you do your
fingers are bound to get stained with nicotine. Warm water and soap is
all _I_ use. First I immerse my hands in tepid water, then I rub the
soap (you can get it at any chemist's or oil-shop) into the pores--you
'd be surprised how it lathers if you do it the right way--and then
I rinse the soap off again. I learnt that trick from watching our
washer-woman--she had such lovely hands."

"Why do you never use powder now, Estelle?" asked Rosalie. "Before the
War one could never come near you without leaving footprints."

"My reasons were partly patriotic, conserving the food supply, you
know, and partly owing to the mulatto-like tint the war-flour gave me.
One doesn't want to go about looking half-baked, does one?"

"No," we murmured, making a pretty concerted number of it.

"But wrinkles, darling Estelle," I pleaded--"do tell us what you do
for your wrinkles."

"Wrinkles," murmured Estelle, with a pretty puckering of her brow--"I
haven't any left; I've given them all to you."

[EDITORIAL NOTE.--This series will not be continued in our next
issue.]

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MUSICAL.

    1916 car, nearly new, two-seater body, hood, screen, complete,
    £13."--_Provincial Paper_.

At that price it probably would be "musical."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The latest telegrams from Berlin state that the Spartacus
    (Extremist) leaders are in extremis."--_Sunday Paper_,

But, confound it, that's their element.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Sergeant_. "ONLY ONE BUTTON DECENTLY CLEAN. AND I
SUPPOSE YOU MANAGED TO GET THAT ONE BRIGHT BY RUBBIN' OF IT AGAINST
THE CANTEEN COUNTER."]

       *       *       *       *       *

A MILITARY EDUCATIONAL PROBLEM.

Dear Mr. Punch,--I write to ask your advice. As you know, the Army
Council in its wisdom decreed that the Army, before being demobilised,
must be educated. I have been chosen as one of the Educators.

My efforts to lead the Army into the paths of light and learning were
crowned with success until in an evil moment I undertook to teach
Private Goodbody. This genial ornament of our regimental sanitary
squad is especially anxious to plumb the mysteries of arithmetic.
When he had, as I thought, finally mastered the principle that if you
borrow one from the shillings' column you must pay it back in the
pounds' column, I set him the following sum:--

"Supposing you owed the butcher sixteen shillings and three pence
halfpenny and took a pound note to pay him with, how much change ought
he to give you?"

Private Goodbody scratched his head for several minutes and at last
decided that he did not know.

"But come, Goodbody," I urged, "surely it's quite easy." And I
repeated the question.

"I don't know, Sir; I don't never have no truck with butchers," he
declared emphatically. "I leaves that 'ere to the missus."

"Ah!" I said, "and how does _she_ get the money to pay him?"

"_I_ gives it 'er," said Goodbody.

"What does she do with the change?" I asked next.

"Gives it back to me, I reck'n," he answered.

"Well," I continued, "if you don't know how much change there ought
to be when you give her a pound and she spends sixteen shillings and
three pence halfpenny, how do you know she gives you back the right
amount?"

Private Goodbody eyed me with something suspiciously like contempt.

"If my missus started playin' any o' them monkey tricks on me, givin'
the wrong change an' sich, I'd put it acrost 'er," he said.

And there the matter rests for the present. I feel that I should not
lead Private Goodbody any further into the intricacies of his subject
until he has solved my problem. This he resolutely professes himself
unable to do, and begs to be allowed to leave it and plunge into the
giddy vortex of the multiplication table.

Yours faithfully, MENTOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A cable message of 100 words from London to Johannesburg to-day,
    at 2s. 6d. a word, costs £1 10s."--_Evening Paper_.

We suppose the Post Office makes a reduction for taking a quantity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WIND.

  The day I saw the Wind I stood
  All by myself inside our wood,
  Where Nurse had told me I must wait
  While she went back through the white gate
  To fetch her work ... I don't know why,
  But suddenly I felt quite shy
  With all the trees when Nurse was gone,
  For quietness came on and on
  And covered me right round as though
  I was just nobody, you know,
  And not a little girl at all...
  But _then_--quite sudden--HER torn shawl
  Came through the trees; I saw it gleam,
  And SHE was near. Just like a dream
  She looked at me. Her lovely hair
  Was waving, waving everywhere,
  And from her shawl--all tattery--
  There blew the sweetest scents to me.
  I didn't ask her who she was;
  I didn't _need_ to ask, because
  I _knew!_ ... That's all ... She didn't wait;
  She _went_--when Nurse called through the gate.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HOT WATER BATTLES--Best quality rubber, from 4/3 each." --_Parish
    Magazine_.

A new kind of tank warfare, we suppose.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: OUR DANCING MEN.

"WHO'S THE SLIGHTLY ANCIENT DAME THAT THAT KID BINKS HAS BEEN DANCING
WITH ALL THE EVENING?"

"I DUNNO. YOUNG BINKS DOESN'T EITHER. BUT HE SAYS SHE'S THE ONLY WOMAN
IN THE ROOM WITH A GLIMMERING OF HOW TO 'JAZZ.'".]

       *       *       *       *       *

THOUGHTS IN COMMITTEE.

  The War decays; the Offices disperse,
  And after many a bloomer flies the don;
  All kinds of Bodies perish with a curse,
  And only my Committee lingers on,
  Still rambles gaily in the same old rings,
  Still sighs, "At any rate, we are at one";
  Yet even here, so catching, are these things,
  Something, I think, is going to be done.

  For me, I would not anything were done,
  But would for ever sit on this soft seat
  Each sweet recurrent Saturday, and run
  An idle pencil o'er the foolscap sheet,
  The free unrationed blotting-pad, and scrawl
  Delightful effigies of those who speak,
  But not myself say anything at all,
  Only be mute and beautiful and meek ...

  Are there not Ministers and ex-M.P.'s,
  A Knight, a Baronet, a Brigadier?
  Is it not wonderful to be with these,
  To watch, and after in the wifely ear
  Whisper, "This morning I exchanged some words
  With old Sir Somebody, who thought of Tanks;
  I saw the Chairman of the Board of Birds;
  I said, 'How are you?' and he answered, 'Thanks'"?

  So let us sit for ever--and expand;
  Let us be paid, not properly, but well.
  Let more men come, all opulent and bland,
  So that we qualify for some hotel,
  So that, as all the Constitution grows
  From little seeds long buried in the past,
  We too may be a part of it! Who knows?
  We may become a Ministry at last.

  And if indeed our end must be more tame,
  Let large well-mounted photographs be made
  Of this high gathering, and let each name
  Beneath each face be generously displayed,
  That I may say, when penury has crept
  Too near for decency, to some old snob,
  "_That_ was the kind of company I kept
  When England needed me"--and get a job.

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Good Servants of all kings required at once.--Apply Mrs. ----'s
    Registry."--_Provincial Paper_.

There should be a good supply, as several monarchs have lately given
up housekeeping.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "REQUIRED, ROMPOTER, to float £50,000 company for manufacturing
    bricks for reconstruction. Curiosity mongers please
    refrain."--_Daily Paper_.

But for the warning we should have been sorely tempted to inquire what
a "Rompoter" may be.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "DORA" DISCOMFITED.

"DORA." "WHAT, NO CENSORSHIP?" [_Swoons._]

{The Foreign Office has announced that Press Correspondents' messages
about the Peace Congress will not be censored.}]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Jock_. "BON JOUR, M'SIEUR. NOUS AVONS REVENUS DE
PERMISSION ET NOUS SOMMES BLINQUANT MISERABLE. SI VOUS FEREZ MON
AMI DE SOURIRE, JE DONNERAI VOUS DIX FRANCS."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WAR DOGS' PARTY.

I am a plain dog that barks his mind and believes in calling a bone
a bone, not one of your sentimental sort that allows the tail--that
uncontrollable seat of the emotions--to govern the head. I voted
Coalition, of course. As a veteran--three chevrons and the Croix de
Guerre--I could hardly refuse to support the man who above all others
helped us war dogs to beat the Bosch. But to say that I am satisfied
with the way things are going on--that's a mouse of a very different
colour, as the phrase goes. A terrier person who claims to own the
PRIME MINISTER and has been very busy demanding what he calls our
invaluable suffrages buttonholed me the other day outside the tripe
shop and commenced to tell me all the wonderful things that we dogs
would get if we only elected a strong Coalition Government--better
biscuits, larger kennels, equal rabbits for all and I don't know what
else. But when I asked him plainly, "Are you in favour of keeping out
the dachshunds?" the fellow hedged and said the question was not so
important as some people seemed to think, and that financial interests
had to be considered.

And that's how the War Dogs' Party came to be formed, for when
they heard how the land lay some of the influential dogs in our
neighbourhood called a meeting in Jorrocks' Mews and elected me
chairman. We decided that membership should not be confined to dogs
who had actually seen service at the Front, but that any dog who had
faced the trials of the War in the spirit of true patriotism should be
eligible. A slight difficulty was encountered in the case of the Irish
terrier who owns the butcher's shop and notoriously has never been
on bone rations, some of the young hotheads claiming that he was not
eligible. But Snap is a very popular dog, and when he is not brooding
over his national grievances is a merry fellow and always ready to
share a bone with a pal. So I ruled that on account of the historic
wrongs of Ireland we would overlook Snap's defiance of the Public
Bones Order and allow him to be one of us.

One of the first things you learn in the trenches is the use of tact
in coping with delicate situations. Well, we drew up a very strong
platform and were on the point of carrying it unanimously when our
secretary, a clever fellow but temperamental, like all poodles,
spotted the big yellow cat from No. 14 slinking down the street on
some poisonous errand or other, and the meeting adjourned in what I
can only describe as a disorderly manner. Of course we are treating
the Declaration of Peace Aims, as we called it, as carried, though the
secretary insists on adding a fifteenth point, which he says is of
vital importance, relating to the Declawing of Yellow Cats.

The first plank in our platform is BRITAIN FOR BRITISH DOGS, which
sounds very well, don't you think? Sassafras, the Aberdeen terrier
from No. 3, a solid fellow but unimaginative, wanted it to be ONCE A
U-DOG ALWAYS A U-DOG, but I ruled that that couldn't be right because
once there had been a U-dog next door to us, but now there wasn't. Of
course they all wanted to hear about it, but we war dogs are supposed
to be as modest as we are brave, so I simply said that he was _spurlos
versenkt_. But it isn't only German dogs we draw the line at. Take the
Pekinese. I've always said if we didn't combat the Yellow Peril we'd
regret it, and now the pests are everywhere. My master's woman has one
which she calls Pitti Sing. Did you ever hear of such a name for a
dog? But then it isn't a dog in the real sense of the word. Only last
Friday the little beast flew at me--all over an absurd chicken bone
which was really meant for me but had been put on to its plate by
mistake--and deliberately filled my mouth full of nasty fluffy fur.

Of course the woman had to come in at that moment and, instead of
chastising the little monster, she grabbed it up and hugged it,
saying, "Diddums nasty great dog bite um poor ickle Pitti Singums?"
and a lot more silly rot equally at variance with the facts. I wagged
my tail at her to show it wasn't my fault, but she just wouldn't see
reason and told master that I must have a good whipping. Of course
master and I both know that one isn't whipped for a little thing like
that, so we retired into the study, and while master pretended to
whip me I pretended to howl. I was just beginning to howl in a very
lifelike way when the woman rushed in and called master a cruel brute,
and said she didn't mean him to hurt me really.

Women are funny creatures and I'm glad I don't own one. Snap, the
butcher's dog, even went so far as to suggest that we should adopt
anti-feminism as a plank in our platform, but the Irish Wolfhound who
comes from Cavendish Square said that his mistress was driving an
ambulance in France and that, in her absence, anyone who had anything
to say against women would have to see him first. Of course it's very
difficult to argue with that kind of dog, and, though Snap seemed
inclined to press the point, I ruled the proposal out of order. The
value of resource is one of the things you learn in the Army.

I think Snap was rather relieved really, because after the meeting he
asked me to go and help him dig up a nearly new mutton bone that he
had buried under a laurel bush in the Square.

Well, to return to our platform, what we say about these foreign dogs
is "Keep them all out." Of course there are some Allied dogs, like
Poodles and Plumpuddings and Boston terriers, that have earned the
right to be considered one of ourselves, but when it comes to having
Mexican Hairless and Schipperkes and heaven knows what else coming
into the country and taking the biscuits out of our mouths--well, we
say it isn't good enough. Not that we're insular, mind you, but to
hear some of these mangy foreigners talking about the Brotherhood of
Dogs! But I must tell you how Bolshevism raised its ugly head in
our midst. It was while we were discussing the second plank in our
platform, which is "DOGS, NOT DOORMATS."

But there, Master is calling me to take him for a walk, so it must
wait till next week. ALGOL.

(_To be continued._)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Official (to applicant for post as policewoman)_. "AND
WHAT WOULD YOU DO IN THE EVENT OF A STREET ACCIDENT?"

_Applicant_. "OH, I SHOULD--ER--CALL A POLICEMAN."]

       *       *       *       *       *

    "German civil officials in Nancy must salute American officers.
    Failure to obey the order means arrest."--_Globe_.

We hear that the same regulation applies to all German civil officials
in Lyons, Toulouse and Bordeaux.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS

FROM MESSRS. TRUEMAN AND WASHINGTON'S LIST.

_THE ZOOMERS._

BY GLADYS WANK.

_PRICE_ 6/11¾.

A new writer who by virtue of her godlike genius takes her seat with
HOMER, DANTE, SHAKSPEAKE and MARIE CORELLI, and a novel such as the
world has not known since _The Miseries of Mephistopheles_ startled
the comatose mid-Victorians from their slumbers--both stand revealed
in these soul-shaking pages. To say that this is the novel of the year
is to malign its greatness It is the novel of the century, of all
centuries, of all time.

FIRST REVIEW BEFORE PUBLICATION.

    "It is not saying too much, when I solemnly assert that I really
    believe that Miss Wank's first book is the best she has ever
    written."--"_A MAN OF KENT_," in _The Scottish Treacly_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_SIMIAN SONGS._

BY ISABEL MUNKITTRICK.

_PRICE_ 11/3½.

These remarkable lyrics are translations into vernacular verse of the
prose versions of specimens of the literature of the great apes of
Africa, collected by Professor GARNER. It is not too much to say that
those touching _cris de coeur_ redolent of the jungle, the lagoon and
the hinterland, will appeal with irresistible force to all lovers of
sincere and passionate emotion. The Chimpanzee's "swing song" on page
42 is a marvel of oscillating melody.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE MILLENNIUM VIÂ ARMAGEDDON._

BY REV. ANGUS WOTTLEY, D.D.

_WITH A FOREWORD BY_ PRINCIPAL CAWKER.

_PRICE_ 9/4¼.

This is a work of over 120,000 words of extraordinary beauty and
distinction. It has gone into 150 editions in Patagonia, where the
editions are very large, and ought to be in great demand in this
country. Tiberius Mull, writing in the Literary Supplement of _The
Scottish Oil World_, uses these remarkable words: "I do honestly
believe that Dr. Angus Wottley's book is the most weighty volume he
has ever given to the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

_POLLY ANDREA'S SACRIFICE._

BY SALINA LAKE.

_PRICE_ 8/3½.

This is the first attempt to present the limitations of the modern
monogamous system in its true polyphonic perspective, several
huge editions having been exhausted before publication. Professor
McTalisker writes in the Theological Supplement of _John Bull_: "For
a person in a state of partial exhaustion I can imagine no more
efficacious stimulant than is to be found in those beautiful pages.
Not being acquainted with any of the earlier works of the author, I
can honestly declare that in my opinion it is the best thing that
I have read from her pen, and, further, that it has made a deeper
impression upon me than any other work which I have not read but which
deals with the same subject."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: DOPE.

_Jack_. "'ERE'S AN ARTICLE 'ERE ON THE 'FASCINATION OF OPIUM SMOKIN'.'
FASCINATION, I DON'T FINK! THE ONLY TIME I SMOKED IT WAS IN CHINA, AN'
FOR THREE DAYS I 'AD AH 'EAD ON ME LIKE A SMOKE BARRAGE."]

       *       *       *       *       *

PEACE AND PROMOTION.

  Lucasta, prideful times they were
    When first it came to pass
  That on each shoulder I might bear
    A little star of brass.
  And when by reason of my zeal
    I was awarded twain,
  'Twas not mere vanity to feel
    Almost as proud again.
  My warrior soul was filled with song
    In triumph's clearest key,
  When, feeling thrice as broad and strong,
    My shoulders shone with three.
  Yet these I'll gladly from their place
    Remove, and in their stead
  Support one star of gentler grace--
    Lucasta's golden head.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GENTLEMAN required, knowledge of short-hand essential although
    not absolutely necessary."--_Local Paper_.

A very nice distinction.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In my opinion the Asiatic cholera, 1850-1851, took more lives
    and caused more anxiety than the flu. In Spanish Town, with a
    population of 5,000, 7,800 died."--_Daily Gleaner_ (_Kingston,
    Jamaica_).

We agree that the 'flu mortality can hardly have been greater than
this.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Flageolets soaked or parboiled previously and placed in alternate
    layers in a fireproof dish with sliced tomato or potato sprinkled
    with onion also make a valuable dish." _--Evening Paper_.

We have fortunately not yet been reduced to eating our wood-wind
instruments; but we think we should need a double-bass to wash them
down.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Impressed Rustic Sightseer_. "AY, AMOS, IT MUST TAKE
YEARS OF OILING AN' COMBING TO TRAIN HAIR LIKE THAT."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

I met a man in the Club at Lille the other day who told me that he
knew all about women. He had studied the subject, he said, and could
read 'em like an open book. He admitted that it took a bit of doing,
but that once you had the secret they would trot up and eat out of
your hand.

Having thus spoken he swallowed three whiskies in rapid succession and
rushed away to jump a lorry-ride to Germany, and I have not seen him
since, much to my regret, for I need his advice, I do.

       *       *       *       *       *

We splashed into the hamlet of Sailly-le-Petit at about eight o'clock
of a pouring dark night, to find the inhabitants abed and all doors
closed upon us.

However, by dint of entreaties whispered through key-holes and
persuasions cooed under window-shutters, I charmed most of them open
again and got my troop under cover, with the exception of one section.
Its Corporal, his cape spouting like a miniature watershed, swam up.
"There's a likely-lookin' farm over yonder, Sir," said he, "but the
old gal won't let us in. She's chattin' considerable." I found a group
of numb men and shivering horses standing knee-deep in a midden, the
men exchanging repartee with a furious female voice that shrilled at
them from a dark window. "Is that the officer?" the voice demanded.
I admitted as much. "Then remove your band of brigands. Go home to
England, where you belong, and leave respectable people in peace. The
War is finished."

I replied with some fervour (my boots were full of water and my cap
dribbling pints of iced-water down the back of my neck) that I was
not playing the wandering Jew round one-horse Picard villages in late
December for the amusement I got out of it and that I could be relied
on to return to England at the earliest opportunity, but for the
present moment would she let us in out of the downpour, please? The
voice soared to a scream. No, she would not, not she. If we chose to
come soldiering we must take the consequences, she had no sympathy
for us. She called several leading saints to witness that her barn
was full to bursting anyhow and there was no room. That was that.
She slammed the window-shutter and retired, presumably to bed. The
Corporal, who had been scouting round about, returned to report room
for all hands in the barn, which was quite empty. Without further ado
I pushed all hands into the barn and left them for the night.

Next morning, while walking in the village street, I beheld a
remarkable trio approaching. It consisted of a venerable cleric--his
skirts held high enough out of the mud to reveal the fact that he
favoured flannel underclothing and British army socks--and a massive
rustic dressed principally in hair, straw-ends and corduroys. The
third member was a thick short bulldog of a woman, who, from the
masterly way in which she kept corduroys from slipping into the
village smithy and saved the cleric from drifting to a sailor's grave
in the duck-pond, seemed to be the controlling spirit of the party.
By a deft movement to a flank she thwarted her reluctant companions
in an attempt to escape up a by-way, and with a nudge here and a
tug there brought them to a standstill in front of me and opened
the introductions.

"M. le Curé," indicating the cleric, who dropped his skirts and raised
his beaver.

"M. le Maire," indicating corduroys, who clutched a handful of straw
out of his beard and groaned loudly.

"_Moi, je suis Madame, Veuve Palliard-Dubose_," indicating herself.

I bowed, quailing inwardly, for I recognized the voice. She gave
corduroys a jab in the short ribs with her elbow. "_Eh bien_, now
speak."

Corduroys rolled his eyes like a driven bullock, sneezed a shower of
straw and groaned again.

"_Imbécile!_" spat Madame disgustedly and prodded the Curé. But the
Curé was engaged in religious exercises, beads flying through his
fingers, lips moving, eyes tight closed. Madame shrugged her shoulders
eloquently as if to say, "Men--what worms! I ask you," and turned on
me herself. She led off by making some unflattering guesses as to my
past career, commented forcibly on my present mode of life, ventured
a few cheerful prophecies as to my hereafter and polished off a brisk
ten minutes heart-to-heart talk by snapping her fingers under my nose
and threatening me with the guillotine if I did not instantly remove
my man-eating horses from her barn.

"Observe," she concluded triumphantly, "I have the Church and State on
my side."

"Have you?" I queried. "Have you? Look again."

She turned to the right for the Mayor, but a strong trail of straw
running up the by-way told that that massive but inarticulate
dignitary had slunk home to his threshing. She turned to the left for
the Curé, but the whisk of a skirt and a flannel shank disappearing
into the church-porch showed that the discreet clerk had side-stepped
for sanctuary. I thought it kinder to leave Madame the widow
Palliard-Dubose to herself at this juncture, but something told me I
had not heard the last of her. Nor had I. A week later an imposing
document was forwarded from the orderly-room for my "information
and necessary action, please." It emanated from the French Military
Mission and claimed from me the modest sum of two thousand
three hundred and fourteen francs on behalf of one Madame Veuve
Palliard-Dubose, of the village of Sailly-le-Petit, Pas de Calais,
the claimant alleging that my troopers had stolen unthreshed wheat to
that value wherewith to feed their horses. A prompt settlement would
oblige.

I fled panic-stricken down to stables and wagged the document in
the faces of the thieves. They were virtuously indignant; hadn't
pinched no wheat-straw at all--not in Sailly-le-Petit. Might have
been a bit absent-minded-like at Auchy-en-Artois, and again at
Pressy-aux-Bois mistakes may have been made, but here never--no,
Sir, s'welp-them-Gawd. I wrote to the French Mission denying the
impeachment. They replied with a fresh shower of claims. I answered
with a storm of denials. The sky snowed correspondence. Just when the
French were putting it all over me and my orderly-room was hinting
that I had best pay up and save the Entente Cordiale, the French ran
out of paper and sent one of their missionaries in a car to settle
the matter verbally. I gave him a good lunch, an excellent cigar and
spread all the facts of the case before him as one human to another.
He spent an hour nosing about the village, and the result of his
investigations was that Madame Veuve Palliard-Dubose, so far from
having her wheat stolen, had had no wheat to steal, and furthermore
never in the course of her agricultural activities had she harvested
crops to the value of Francs 2314. Virtue triumphant. Evil vanquished.
Madame the widow Palliard-Dubose retired grimly into her cabin,
slamming the door on the world.

Yesterday was New Year's Day. Imagine my surprise when, on visiting
the horses at mid-day, Madame Veuve Palliard-Dubose leaned over
the half-door of her dwelling and waved her hand to me. "_Ah, ha,
Monsieur le Lieutenant_", she crowed, "many felicitations on this
most auspicious day! _Bon jour, belle année_!"

I was so staggered I treated her to my _perfecto superfino_, my very
best salute (usually reserved for Generals and Field Cashiers). "The
same to you, Madame, and many of 'em. _Vive la France!_"

Madame bowed and smiled with all her features. "_Vive l'Angleterre_!"
What a lot of weather we were having, weren't we? and what a glorious
victory it had been, hadn't it?--mainly due to the dear soldiers, she
felt sure. She hoped I found myself enjoying robust health.

I replied that I was in the pink myself and trusted she was the same.

Never pinker in her life, she said; everything was perfectly lovely.
She beckoned me nearer. She had a small favour to ask. At this season
of peace and goodwill would the so amiable Lieutenant deign to enter
her modest abode and take a little glass of _vin blanc_ with her?

The "amiable Lieutenant" would be enchanted.

She swung the door open and bowed me in. The glasses were already
filled and waiting on the table--a big one for me, a little one for
her.

We clicked rims and lifted our elbows to the glorious victory, to the
weather (which was rotten) and our mutual pinkness.

"_A votre santé, mon Lieutenant_!" crooned Madame the widow
Palliard-Dubose.

"_À votre, Madame_," replied her Lieutenant, quaffing the whole
issue in one motion. Paraffin, ladies and gentlemen, pure undiluted
paraffin--paugh! wow! ouch!

       *       *       *       *       *

If the fellow I met in the Lille Club who reads women's souls and gets
'em to feed out of his hand should also happen to read this, will he
please write and tell me what my next move is? PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "IT'S PERFECTLY SIMPLE, UNCLE--TWO SLOW, THREE QUICK,
THREE SIDE CHASSÉES, WOBBLE WOBBLE, LAME DUCK, LAME DUCK, DIP,
GRASSHOPPER, TWO SLOW, SWIVEL, SCISSORS, JAZZ-ROLL, KICK, TURN, TWO
CHASSÉES, BACK, TWINKLE, AND ON AGAIN."]

       *       *       *       *       *

    "TOO LATE FOR CLASSIFICATION.

    12 March and April pullets laying rabbits."--_Advt. in Local
    Paper_.

Personally we should place these admirable birds in a class by
themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HUNT FOR CIGARETTES.

    STATE CONTROL ENDS, BUT SUPPLY STILL SCARCE."--_Daily Chronicle_.

Is this the fag-end of State control, or the State control of
fag-ends?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Girl, about 18, for grocery; permanency; experience not
    necessary; must love locally."--_Daily Paper_.

But we doubt if this attempt to constrain the tender passion within
geographical limits will prove a "permanency."

       *       *       *       *       *

  There was a young man from Dundee
  Who didn't succeed with the Sea;
      So they gave him command
      Of the Air and the Land
  Just to make it quite fair for all three.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE END OF THE VOLUNTEERS.

  And now the fell decree by post went out
  That all the world might understand and know
  How that our Volunteers henceforth must live
  A quite unkhaki'd and civilian life,
  Stripped of their rifles, bared of bayonets too.
  Ah, many a time had we passed by to drill
  And scorned the loafer who hung round to see,
  The while, with accurate swift-moving feet
  And hands that flashed in unison, we heard
  The Sergeant-Major's voice in anger raised
  Because we did not mark it as he wished;
  Or uttering words of praise for them that knew
  To act when rear rank got itself in front.
  And ah, we knew to mount a gallant guard,
  To fix our sentries, and to prime them well
  With varied information that might serve
  To help them in their duties and to make
  Them glib and eloquent when called upon
  In all the changes of this martial life.
  And we could march in line and march in fours,
  And bear ourselves ferociously and well
  When the inspecting officer appeared.
  And, one great day--it was our apogee--
  When volunteers for France were called upon,
  A forest of accepting hands went up;
  But nothing further ever came of it.
  At any rate it showed a right good will
  And stamped our Volunteers as gallant stuff
  To serve their country should the need arise.
  And now their rifles have been ta'en away,
  Their side-arms are removed, and they themselves
  Are mocked in obloquy and sunk in scorn.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LINGUIST.

Nancy is eleven and thinks I know everything. I never could resist or
contradict her.

"Now tell me about animals in Africa," she said. "Tell me lots."

This was better than usual, for I possess a heavily-mortgaged and
drought-stricken farm in some obscure corner of that continent and
have spent much time disputing with beasts who refused to acknowledge
my proprietary claims.

So I told Nancy tales of lions that roared till the stars tumbled
out of the sky with fright, and, when she crept very close to me, of
the blue monkeys with funny old faces who swung through the trees
and across the river-bed to steal my growing corn. I told her of the
old ones who led them in the advance and followed in the retreat,
chattering orders, and of the little babies who clung to their
mothers. I told her that monkeys elected not to talk lest they should
be made to work, but that there were a few men living who understood
their broken speech and could hold communion with them.

She led me on with little starts and questions and--well, I may all
unwillingly have misled her as to my general intelligence.

"We'll go to the Zoo to-morrow," Nancy commanded, "and you can talk to
the monkeys and find out what they think. Let's."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nancy shook her curls and turned her back on the patient-looking bear.

"He's stupid," she said. "Why can't you find the monkeys? You know you
promised."

I suggested luncheon, but was overruled, and, on turning a corner,
read my fate in large letters on the opposite building.

"Come on," said Nancy, taking me by the hand.

Her first selection was very old and melancholy. He accepted a piece
of locust-bean with leisurely condescension and watched us with quiet
interest as he chewed. He rather frightened me; the wisdom of all the
ages was behind his wrinkled eyes.

"When you were in your prison did the Germans feed you through the
bars?" Nancy asked with great clearness.

Several people in the vicinity became aware of our existence and,
feeling the limelight upon me, I again mentioned the lateness of the
hour.

"Talk to him," she said. "Ask him what it's like in there."

I treated the blinking monkey to a collection of clicks and chuckles
which would have startled even a professor of the Bantu languages. He
finished his bean and emitted a low bird-like call.

"What's that?" asked Nancy.

"You see," I said, "he's brown and comes from a different part of the
country. It's like Englishmen and Frenchmen. Now, if he was blue--"

"Ask that keeper," said Nancy.

"He's very busy," I whispered. "We oughtn't to interrupt him."

Nancy at once ran over to the man.

"Have you got any blue ones?" she asked. "'Cos _he_ can talk to them.
We'd like to see one."

The man looked at me without interest. I was an amateur and a rival;
but Nancy's smile can work wonders.

"Yes, Missy," he said, "a beauty round here."

We reached the cage all too soon.

"Now talk," Nancy ordered.

Again I went through my ridiculous performance. The monkey looked at
the keeper.

The hand which lay in mine told me that Nancy's confidence was waning.
I knew then how much I valued it.

"Not very well, is he?" I asked of the keeper. "A little out of
sorts--this weather, you know."

My reputation was in his hands, but I dared make no sign. Nancy's eyes
were on my face.

The man looked at me and then at the eager little face below him.
"Heavy cold, Sir," he said stolidly. "Always makes 'em a bit hard o'
hearing. Poor old Topsy! Want to be left alone, do you?"

"What a pity," said Nancy. "Mother _will_ be sorry to hear that the
only one you could speak to was so ill and deaf."

"What were you giving him?" she asked as we walked away.

"Only a little New Year present for his children," I said.

"How do you know he's got any children?" Nancy demanded. "He didn't
say so, did he?"

"No, but I'm quite certain he has," I answered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter received by an officer in Egypt:--

