
There have been some who equalled him in acquirements--many who have
possessed sounder judgment and sounder principles; but never was there
in any legislative assembly, a person whose talents were more peculiarly
and perfectly adapted to the effect which he intended to produce.
With all the advantages of voice and person--with all the graces of
delivery--with all the charms which affability and good-nature impart
to genius, he had wit at will, as well as eloquence at command. Being
frank and sincere in all his political opinions, he had all that
strength in his oratory which arises from sincerity, although in his
political conduct the love of intrigue was one of his besetting sins.
By an unhappy perversion of mind it seemed as if he would always rather
have obtained his end by a crooked path than by a straight one; but his
speeches had nothing of this tortuosity; there was nothing covert in
them, nothing insidious--no double-dealing, no disguise. His argument
went always directly to the point, and with so well-judged an aim that
he was never (like Burke) above his mark--rarely, if ever, below it, or
beside it. When, in the exultant consciousness of personal superiority,
as well as the strength of his cause, he trampled upon his opponents,
there was nothing coarse, nothing virulent, nothing contumelious,
nothing ungenerous in his triumph. Whether he addressed the Liverpool
electors, or the House of Commons, it was with the same ease, the same
adaptation to his auditory, the same unrivalled dexterity, the same
command of his subject and his hearers, and the same success. His only
faults as a speaker were committed when, under the inebriating influence
of popular applause, he was led away by the heat and passion of the
moment. A warm friend, a placable adversary, a scholar, a man of
letters, kind in his nature, affable in his manners, easy of access,
playful in conversation, delightful in society--rarely have the
brilliant promises of boyhood been so richly fulfilled as in Mr.
Canning.


_Political Economists_

Are the most daring of all legislators, just (it has been well said)
as "cockney equestrians are the most fearless of all riders." But the
confidence with which they propose their theories is less surprising
than the facility with which their propositions have been entertained,
and their extravagant pretensions admitted. We need not marvel at the
success of quackery in medicine and theology, when we look at the career
of the St. John Longs in political life. From the time in which the
bullion question came out of Pandora's Scotch mull, parliament has been
wearied with the interminable discussions which they have raised there.
Youths who were fresh from college, and men with or without education,
who were "in the wane of their wits and infancy of their discretion,"
imbibe the radiant darkness of Jeremy Bentham, and forthwith set
themselves up as the lights of their generation. No professors, even in
the subtlest ages of scholastic philosophy, were ever more successful
in muddying what they found clear, and perplexing what is in itself
intelligible. What are wages?--this, we are told, is the most difficult
and the most important of all the branches of political economy, and
this, we are also told, has been obscured by ambiguities and fallacies.
What is rent? What is value? Upon these questions, and such as these,
which no man of sincere understanding ever proposed to himself or
others, they discuss and dilate with as much ardour and to as little
effect, as the old philosophers disputed upon the elements of the
material creation; bringing to the discussion intellects of the same
kind, though as far below them in degree as in the dignity of the
subjects upon which their useless subtlety is expended. But it cannot
be said of them, that they, when all is said,

  With much discretion and great want of wit,
  Leave all as wisely as it was at first;


for they mystify those readers who are not disgusted by such
ineptitudes, perplex weak minds, and pervert vain ones. Of such
discussions it may be said with the son of Sirach, that "when a man hath
done, then he beginneth; and when he leaveth off, then he shall be
doubtful."


_Homer._

Seneca reckons among the idle questions, which were unworthy of wise
men, the dispute whether Homer wrote both the Iliad and Odyssey, and
in what countries Ulysses wandered. Notwithstanding the "Stoic's
philosophic pride," these inquiries have still an interest to minds
of the highest order--such is the homage which genius extorts from the
remotest countries and from the latest ages. We noticed, in an article
in our last Number, the curious fact of native youths in India
performing parts of Shakspeare, and thus on the shores of the Ganges
countless minds are deriving delight, perhaps improvement, from the
careless and unlaboured verses of the light-hearted Warwickshire
deer-stealer. So, in this country, and over all the continent of
Europe, which, when the songs of Homer first gladdened the halls of
the chieftains on the shores of the Aegean, were vast unknown deserts,
unpeopled, or wandered over by a few rude hunters; which, to the Greeks,
were regions of more than Cimmerian darkness, beyond the boundaries of
the living world--men of the loftiest and most powerful understanding
are examining, and discussing, and disputing the most minute points
which may illustrate the poetry of the blind bard; scholars are
elucidating, antiquaries illustrating, philosophers reasoning upon,
men of genius transfusing into their native tongues, poets honouring
with despairing emulation, the whole mind of educated man _feeling_
the transcendent power of the poet of the Iliad and Odyssey. Surely,
the boasted triumph of poetry over space and time is no daring
hyperbole--surely, it is little more than the boasted reality of truth.


_Power of Memory._

It is indeed not easy to calculate the height to which the memory may
be cultivated. To take an ordinary case, we might refer to that of any
first-rate actor, who must be prepared, at a very short warning, to
"rhapsodize" night after night, parts which, when laid together, would
amount to an immense number of lines. But all this is nothing to two
instances of our own day. Visiting at Naples a gentleman of the highest
intellectual attainments, and who held a distinguished rank among the
men of letters in the last century, he informed us that the day before
he had passed much time in examining a man, not highly educated, who had
learned to repeat the whole Gierusalemme Liberata of Tasso; not only to
recite it consecutively, but to repeat any given stanza of any given
book; to repeat those stanzas in utter defiance of the sense, either
forwards or backwards, or from the eighth line to the first, alternately
the odd and even lines--in short, whatever the passage required, the
memory, which seemed to cling to the words much more than to the sense,
had it at such perfect command, that it could produce it under any form.
Our informant went on to state, that this singular being was proceeding
to learn the Orlando Furioso in the same manner. But even this instance
is less wonderful than one as to which we may appeal to any of our
readers that happened some twenty years ago to visit the town of
Stirling, in Scotland. No such person can have forgotten that poor,
uneducated man, _Blind Jamie_, who could actually repeat, after
a few minutes' consideration, any verse required from any part of the
Bible--even the obscurest and least important enumeration of mere proper
names not excepted.


_Origin of the Homeric Poems._

It is said that the art of writing, and the use of manageable writing
materials, were entirely, or all but entirely, unknown in Greece and
the islands at the supposed date of the composition of the Iliad; and
that if so, this poem could not have been committed to writing during
the time of such its composition; that in a question of comparative
probabilities like this, it is a much grosser improbability that even
the single Iliad, amounting, after all curtailments and expungings,
to upwards of 15,000 lines, should have been actually conceived and
perfected in the brain of one man, with no other help but his own or
others' memory, than that it should, in fact, be the result of the
labours of several distinct authors; that if the Odyssey be counted,
the improbability is doubled; that if we add, upon the authority of
Thucydides and Aristotle, the Hymns and Margites, not to say the
Batrachomuiomachia, that which was improbable becomes absolutely
impossible; that all that has been so often said as to the fact of as
many lines, or more, having been committed to memory, is beside the
point in question, which is not whether 15,000 or 30,000 lines may
be learnt by art from a book or manuscript, but whether one man can
_compose_ a poem of that length, which, rightly or not, shall
be thought to be a perfect model of symmetry or consistency of parts,
without the aid of writing materials; that, admitting the superior
probability of such a thing in a primitive age, we know nothing
analogous to such a case; and that it so transcends the common limits
of intellectual power, as, at the least, to merit, with as much justice
as the opposite opinion, the character of improbability.--_H.N.
Coleridge._

       *       *       *       *       *


LIBERALISM AND MUSIC.

It seems that the day is come again when musical airs are ranked in
political importance with proclamations, manifestoes, &c. Everybody
knows the story of the Swiss hired troops, the _Ranz des Vaches_, and
the prohibition of this tune in France. A Polish air, the _Dombrowski
Mazourka_, which the regiment of General Szembek played on entering
Warsaw, has been forbidden by the Grand Duke Constantine, on pain of a
penalty of 400 florins; the consequence of which is, that it has become
the outward and audible sign of patriotism in every part of Poland; just
as the Marseilles March and _la Parisienne_ are in France and the
Netherlands the signals of liberalism. During Mr. Pitt's administration
an organ grinder was committed to Newgate for playing "Ah! ça ira"
in the streets. This was a silly step; but the fellow excited little
commiseration, for the tune was the war-whoop of a few savages who
were at that time deluging France with blood. It affords another
proof, however, of the power ascribed by statesmen to instrumental
music, uninterpreted by words in exciting ideas and producing
associations.--_Harmonicon, Feb. 1._

       *       *       *       *       *


TURKISH MUSICAL GUSTO.

A modern traveller informs us, that the band of an English ambassador
at Constantinople once performed a concert for the entertainment of
the Sultan and his court. At the conclusion it was asked, which of the
pieces he preferred. He replied, the first, which was accordingly
recommenced, but stopped, as not being the right one. Others were tried
with as little success, until at length the band, almost in despair of
discovering the favourite air, began _tuning_ their instruments,
when his highness instantly exclaimed, "_Inshallah_, heaven be
praised, that is it!" The Turkish prince may be excused, when it is
known that at the commemoration of Handel in 1784, Dr. Burney thought
the mere tuning of that host of instruments more gratifying than the
ordinary performances to which he had been accustomed.--_Ibid._

       *       *       *       *       *

RODE, THE VIOLINIST.

In 1814, he was resident at Berlin, where he gave a concert for the
benefit of the poor, and on quitting that capital, returned to his
native city, not again to quit it, except for one ill-starred visit to
Paris in 1818. This visit threw a fatal colouring over all the rest of
Rode's days, and probably contributed to shorten his life. For several
years he had played only in a small circle of admiring friends, who
persuaded him (nothing loth to believe) that his talents were still
unabated. The habit of hearing no one but himself had extinguished
emulation, and deprived him of all means of comparison. Rode suddenly
determined to re-appear in the musical world, and on his arrival in
Paris sought for opportunities of playing in private parties, with as
much eagerness as though he had still been a young man with a reputation
to make. His old admirers were at first delighted to greet him; but they
soon saw with unfeigned regret that he was compromising a great and
well-earned name. His tone, once so pure and beautiful, had become
uncertain; his bow was as timid as his fingers, and he no longer dared
to indulge fearlessly the suggestions of his imagination; in short
it was too apparent that, in spite of his delusion, Rode's former
confidence in himself was gone; and we know the importance of that
feeling of self-reliance which men of talent derive from the innate
consciousness of their own superiority: once destroyed, everything else
vanishes with it. He was applauded; respect for the last efforts of what
had once been first-rate talent secured him that meed; but he was
applauded because his audience considered it a kind of duty, and without
any symptoms of enthusiasm. He felt the distinction; a dreadful light
broke in upon him, and for the first time he became conscious that he
was no longer himself. The blow was the more severe as it was unlooked
for: he left Paris overwhelmed with grief; the check he had received
preyed incessantly on his mind and injured his health. A paralytic
stroke toward the end of 1829 deprived him of the use of one side and
affected his intellect, in which state he languished for nearly twelve
months, till on the 25th of November, 1830, death relieved him from his
sufferings.--_From a Memoir of Rode in the Harmonicon._

       *       *       *       *       *


PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.

It may be considered as sufficiently proved, that the sciences had not
acquired any degree of improvement until the eighth century before the
Christian era; notwithstanding great nations had been formed in several
parts of the earth some centuries earlier. Fifteen hundred years before
Christ there were already four--the Indians, the Chinese, the
Babylonians, and the Egyptians.--_Cuvier._

       *       *       *       *       *


SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

       *       *       *       *       *


THOMAS HOPE, ESQ.

(_For the Mirror._)


We regret to record the death of this distinguished scholar and
munificent patron of literature and the fine arts. For some weeks past
we have been awaiting the publication of his last work, entitled, "An
Essay on the Origin and Prospects of Man;" and after looking with this
expectation in the _Times_ of Friday, the 4th, we there read the
information of Mr. Hope's death, on the 2nd instant, at his house in
Duchess-street.

Mr. Hope was a nephew of the opulent Amsterdam merchant of the same
name. We are not aware of his precise age, but should judge it must have
verged on sixty. In early life he travelled much, especially in the
East; and few Englishmen have acquired better knowledge of the manners
and customs of that division of the world than had the subject of this
memoir. His visits to the European continent are of much more recent
date. In its various academies of fine art his name will long be
cherished with grateful remembrance, since few men distributed their
patronage with so much munificence and judgment.

Possessing an ample fortune and exquisite taste, Mr. Hope judiciously
applied his knowledge of the fine arts to the internal decoration of
houses: thus producing, in numberless instances, the rare combination of
splendour and convenience. On this subject, Mr. Hope published, in 1805,
an illustrative folio work, entitled "Household Furniture and Internal
Decorations." He also published two very superb works on costume,
entitled, "The Costumes of the Ancients," two vols. 8vo. 1809; and
"Designs of Modern Costume," folio, 1812: in which he displayed high
classical attainments and love of the picturesque.

Mr. Hope, however, subsequently appeared before the literary world in a
work which at once places him in the highest list of eloquent writers
and superior men--viz. _Anastasius; or, the Memoirs of a Modern
Greek_: published in the year 1819. There are, indeed, few books in
the English language which contain passages of greater power, feeling,
and eloquence than this work, which delineate frailty and vice with
more energy and acuteness, or describe historical scenes with such
bold imagery and such glowing language. We remember the opinion of
a writer in the Edinburgh Review, soon after the publication of
_Anastasius_. With a degree of pleasantry and acumen peculiar
to northern criticism, he asks, "Where has Mr. Hope hidden all his
eloquence and poetry up to this hour? How is it that he has, all of a
sudden, burst out into descriptions which would not disgrace the pen
of Tacitus, and displayed a depth of feeling and vigour of imagination
which Lord Byron could not excel? We do not shrink from one syllable of
this eulogy." The subjects upon which Mr. Hope had previously written
were not calculated to call forth his eloquent feeling; and, such
excellence was not expected from him, who, to use the harmless satire
of the Edinburgh reviewer, "meditated muffineers and planned pokers."

This was no praise of party: contemporary criticism universally allowed
_Anastasius_ to be a work in which great and extraordinary talent
is evinced. It abounds in sublime passages--in sense--in knowledge of
history, and in knowledge of human character;--and the rapid sale of
three editions has proved these superior characteristics to have been
amply recognised by the reading public. The work in its fourth edition
still enjoys a good sale. In each reprint the nicety of the writer is
traceable: the corrections and alterations in the metaphysical portions
on such passages as illustrate points of character, are elaborated with
exquisite skill, and fresh turns of scholarly elegance are observable
throughout each volume of the work. Memory has probably in some
instances enabled the author to re-touch his pictures of Eastern
scenery, and rearrange his grouping of particular incidents. What a
delightful labour of leisure must this have been for so ingenious a
mind! One of his similes--a weeping lady's eyes compared to violets
steeped in dew--has never been out of our recollection; and one of his
battle scenes almost makes the reader imagine himself transfixed to the
spot by a weapon of the contest.

Mr. Hope married, in 1806, the Hon. Louisa Beresford, daughter of the
late Lord Decies, Archbishop of Tuam, and sister of the present peer,
by whom he has left three sons, the eldest of whom, Mr. Henry Hope, was
groom of the bedchamber to the late king, and recently took his seat
in parliament for the borough of West Looe. Of their highly-gifted and
accomplished mother we know many amiable traits; and, however bright
may have been her fashionable splendour in high life, it is more than
counterbalanced by her active benevolence in the county, in visiting the
homes and relieving the distresses of the poor of the neighbourhood.

Of Mr. Hope's literary acquirements and his patronage of the liberal
arts we have already spoken. It is, however, grateful to be enabled
to refer to special acts of such patronage. It should not, therefore,
be forgotten, that to the liberality of Mr. Hope, Thorwalsden,
the celebrated Danish sculptor, is chiefly indebted for a fostering
introduction to the world: we have seen at the liberal patron's seat,
Deepdene, a stupendous boar of spotless marble, for which the sculptor
received a commission of one thousand guineas. Mr. Hope, too, was one of
the earliest of the patrons of Mr. George Dawe, R.A. In a memoir of this
fortunate and distinguished painter we find that "Andromache soliciting
the Life of her Son," from a scene in the French play entitled
"Andromache," was purchased by Mr. Hope, "who, in the most liberal
manner, marked his approbation of Dawe's talents by favouring him with
several commissions for family portraits, especially a half-length of
Mrs. Hope, with two of her children, and two whole-lengths of the lady
singly." To the useful as well as elegant arts Mr. Hope's encouragement
was extended; and for the last ten years he has filled the office of one
of the Vice-presidents of the Society of Arts and Sciences in the
Adelphi.

Mr. Hope usually passed "the season" at his superb mansion in
Duchess-street, Portland-place, where he had assembled a valuable
collection of works of art, altogether unrivalled, and comprising
paintings, antique statues, busts, vases, and other relics of antiquity,
arranged in apartments, the furniture and decorations of which were in
general designed after classic models, by the ingenious possessor
himself. Among the sculpture is the exquisite Venus rising from the
Bath, by Canova. The whole of these valuables were open to the public,
under certain restrictions, during "the season." Mr. Hope likewise
possessed one of the most delightful estates in the county of
Surrey--viz. the Deepdene, near Dorking, to which he annexed Chart Park,
purchased from the devisees of the late Sir Charles Talbot, Bart. On the
last-mentioned estate is a spacious mausoleum, erected by Mr. Hope about
thirteen years since, and capable of containing upwards of twenty
bodies. Two of his sons, who died in their youth, are buried here.

In the retirement of the Deepdene, Mr. Hope passed much time in
embellishing the mansion, and improving the gardens, grounds, &c.
"Here," observes the author of the _Promenade round Dorking_, "I was
much gratified with landscape gardening, the quiet of echoing dells,
and the refreshing coolness of caverns--all which combined to render
this spot a kind of fairy region. Flower-gardens laid out in parterres,
with much taste, here mingle trim neatness with rude uncultivated
nature, in walks winding through plantations and woods, with ruined
grottoes and hermitages, well adapted, by their solitary situations, for
study and reverie." Adjoining the mansion, Mr. Hope likewise constructed
a classical sculpture gallery, which he enriched with several antiques
from his town residence. Notwithstanding all these additions, we are
bound to confess, that, compared with the beauty of the situation, they
were but unsuccessful efforts of art to embellish bountiful Nature.

The conveniences of the Deepdene are upon a scale of magnificence
similar to that of the mansion in Duchess-street. Their present
Majesties, before their accession, were occasional visiters at the
Deepdene; and upon the formation of the Queen's Household, Mrs. Hope
was appointed a Lady of the Bedchamber.

Few men, even in the philanthropic neighbourhood of Dorking, were more
beloved than the late Mr. Hope. His patronage by money and otherwise,
was never vainly sought for a good object; and with this high merit we
close our humble tribute to his public and private excellence.

PHILO.

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *


BACCHANALIAN SONG.

(_From the "Noctes" of Blackwood._)

