"You don't half appreciate Mr. St. Leger. He's just a splendid young
man. I don't believe there's such another match for you in all England.
You should have seen how keen Mrs. Thayer was to know all about him.
Wouldn't she like him for her daughter, though! and she is handsome
enough, according to some taste. I wish, Dolly, you'd have everything
fixed and square before we meet the Thayers again; or you cannot tell
what may happen. He may slip through your fingers yet."

Dolly made as little answer as possible. And further, she contrived for
a few days to keep her mother from the curiosity shops. It could be
done only by staying persistently within doors; and Dolly shut herself
up to her painting, and made excuses. But she found this was telling
unfavourably on her mother's spirits, and so on her nerves and health;
and she began to go out again, though chafing at her dependence on
Lawrence, and longing for her father exceedingly.

He came at last; and Dolly to her great relief thought he looked well;
though certainly not glad to be in Venice.

"How's your mother?" he asked her when they were alone.

"I think she will be well now, father; now that you have come. And I
have so wanted you!"

"I have no doubt she could have got along just as well without me till
she went to Sorrento, if she had only thought so."

"I don't think she could. And _I_ could not, father. I do not like to
be left so much to Mr. St. Leger's care."

"He likes it. How has he behaved?"

"He has behaved very well."

"Then what's the matter?"

"I don't want him to think he has a right to take care of us."

"He has the right, if I give it to him. And you know you mean to give
him the right, Dolly, in permanence. What's the use of fighting shy
about it? Oh, girls, girls! You must have your way, I suppose. Well,
now I'm here to look after you."

And the business of sight-seeing was carried on from that time with
unabating activity. They went everywhere, and still Mr. Copley found
new things for them to see. Mrs. Copley took him into the curiosity
shops, but as surely he took her out of them, with not much done in the
way of purchases. Dolly enjoyed everything during the first week or
two. She would have enjoyed it hugely, only that the lurking care about
her father was always present to her mind. She was not at rest. Mr.
Copley seemed well and cheery; active and hearty as usual; yet Dolly
detected something hollow in the cheer and something forced in the
activity. She thought him restless and uneasy, in spite of all the
gaiety.

One day after an excursion of some length the party had turned into a
restaurant to refresh themselves. Chocolate and coffee had been
brought; and then Mr. Copley exclaimed, "Hang it! this won't do. Have
you drunk nothing but slops all this while, Lawrence?" And he ordered
the waiter to bring a flask of Greek wine. Dolly's heart leaped to her
mouth.

"Oh no, father!" she said pleadingly, laying her hand on his.

"Oh no, what, my child?"

"No wine, please, father!" There was more intensity in Dolly's accents
than perhaps anybody knew but Mr. Copley; he had the key; and the low
quaver in Dolly's voice did not escape him. He answered without letting
himself meet her eyes.

"Why not? Hasn't Lawrence given you any _vino dolce_ since you have
been in foreign parts? One can get good wine in Venice; and pure."

"If one knows where to go for it," added St. Leger. "So I am told."

"You have not found out by experience yet? We will explore together."

"Not for wine, father?" murmured Dolly.

"Yes, for wine. Wine is one of the good things. What do you think
grapes grow for, eh? Certainly, wine is a good thing, if it is properly
used. Eh, Lawrence?"

"I have always thought so, sir."

"Cheer your mother up now, Dolly. I believe it would do her lots of
good. Here it is. We'll try."

Dolly flushed with pain and anxiety. Yet here, how could she speak
plainly? Her father was opening the bottle, and the waiter was setting
the glasses.

"We have it on good authority, Miss Dolly," Lawrence said, looking at
her, and not sure how far he might venture, "that wine 'maketh glad the
heart of man.'"

"And on the same authority we have it that 'wine is a mocker.'"

"What will you do with contradictory authority?"

"They are not contradictory, those two words," said Dolly. "It is
deceitful; it gets hold of a man, and then he cannot get loose from it.
You _know_, Mr. St. Leger, what work it does."

"Not _good_ wine," said her father, tossing off his glass. "That's
fair; nothing extra. I think we can find better. Letitia, try it; I
have a notion it will do you good;--ought to have been tried before."

And he filled his wife's glass, and then Dolly's, and then Rupert's.
Dolly felt as nearly desperate as ever in her life. Her father had the
air of a man who has broken through a slight barrier between him and
comfort. Mrs. Copley sipped the wine. Lawrence looked observingly from
one face to another. Then Dolly stretched out her hand and laid it upon
Rupert's glass.

"Please stand by me, Rupert!" she begged.

"I will!" said the young man, smiling. "What do you want me to do?"

"Do as I do."

"I will."

Dolly lifted her glass and poured the contents of it into the nearly
emptied chocolate jug. Rupert immediately followed her example.

"What's that for?" said her father, frowning.

"It's waste," added her mother. "I call that waste."

"Don't make yourself ridiculous, Dolly!" Mr. Copley went on. "My child,
the world has drunk wine ever since before you were born, and it will
go on drinking it after you are dead. What is the use of trying to
change what cannot be changed? What can _you_ do?"

"Father, I will not help a bad cause."

"How is it a bad cause, Miss Dolly?" said Lawrence now. "It is a
certain pleasure,--but what harm?"

"Do you ask me that?" said she, with a look of her clear, womanly eyes,
which it was not very pleasant to meet.

"Well, of course, if people misuse the thing,"---- he began.

"Do they often misuse it, Mr. St. Leger?"

"Well, yes; perhaps they do."

"Go on. What are the consequences, when they misuse it?"

"When people drink too much bad brandy of course--but wine like _this_
never hurt anybody."

Dolly thought, it had hurt _her_ that day; but she could not trust her
voice to say it. Her lips trembled, her beautiful eyes filled, she was
obliged to wait. And how, there before her father whom the fruit of the
vine had certainly hurt grievously, and before Mr. St. Leger who knew
as much and had seen it, could she put the thing in words? Her father
had chosen his time cruelly. And where was his promise? Dolly fought
and swallowed and struggled with herself; and tried to regain command
of voice.

"It's a narrow view, ray dear," said Mr. Copley, filling his glass
again, to Dolly's infinite horror; "a narrow view. Well-bred people do
not hold it. It is always a mistake to set yourself against the world.
The world is generally right."

"O father, do you think so?"

"Not a doubt of it," said Mr. Copley, sipping the wine and looking from
one to another of the faces in the little group. "Dolly is a foolish
girl, Rupert; do not let her persuade you."

"It certainly is not the wine that is to be condemned," said Lawrence,
"but the immoderate use of it. That's all."

"What do you call immoderate use of it?" Rupert asked now, putting the
question in Dolly's interest.

"More than your head can bear," said Lawrence. "Keep within that limit,
and you're all right."

"Suppose your neighbour cannot bear what you can?" said Dolly, looking
at him. "And suppose your example tempts him?"

"It's his business to know what he can take," said Lawrence. "It isn't
mine."

"But suppose he is drawn on by your example, and drinks more than he
can bear? What follows, Mr. St. Leger?"

Dolly's voice had a pathetic clang which touched Rupert, and I think
embarrassed Lawrence.

"If he is so unwise, of course he suffers for it. But as I said, that
is his business."

"And not yours?"

"Of course not!" Mr. Copley broke in. "Dolly, you do not understand the
world. How can I tell St. Leger how much he is to drink? or he tell me
how much I must? Don't be absurd, child! You grow a little absurd,
living alone."

"Father, I think the world might be better than it is. And one person
helps on another for good or for evil. And St. Paul was not of your
opinion."

"St. Paul? What did he say about it? That one must not drink wine? Not
at all. He told Timothy, or somebody, to take it, for his stomach's
sake."

"But he said,--that if meat made his brother to offend, he would eat no
meat while the world stood, lest he made his brother to offend. And
meat is certainly a good thing."

"Well, there are just two things about it," said Mr. Copley; "meat is
not wine, and I am not St. Paul. A little more, Lawrence. If it is not
a man's duty to look after his neighbour's potations, neither is it a
woman's. Dolly is young; she will learn better."

If she did not, Lawrence thought, she would be an inconvenient helpmeet
for him. He was very much in love; but certainly he would not wish his
wife to take up a crusade against society. Perhaps Dolly _would_ learn
better; he hoped so. Yet the little girl had some reason, too; for her
father gave her trouble, Lawrence knew. "I'm sorry," he thought,
"deuced sorry! but really I can't be expected to take Mr. Copley, wine
and all, on my shoulders. Really it is not my look-out."

Dolly went home very sober and careful. It is true, not much wine had
been drunk that day. Yet she knew a line had been passed, the passing
of which was significant of future licence, and introductory to it. And
that it had been done in her presence was to prove to her that her
influence could avail nothing. It was bravado. What lay before her now?

"Rupert," she said suddenly, as they were walking together, "let us
make a solemn pledge, you and I, each to the other, that we will never
drink wine nor anything of the sort; unless we must, for sickness, you
know."

"What would be the good of that?" said the young man, laughing.

"I don't know," said Dolly, from whose eyes, on the contrary, hot tears
began to drop. "Perhaps I shall save you, and you may save me; how can
we tell?"

"But we could keep from it just the same, without pledging ourselves?"
said Rupert, soberly enough now.

"Could; but we might be tempted. If we do this, maybe we can help other
people, as well as each other."

The tears were coming so thick from Dolly's eyes that Rupert's heart
was sore for her. She was brushing them away, right and left, but he
saw them glitter and fall; and he thought the man who could, for the
sake of a glass of wine, cause such tears to be shed, was--I won't say
what he thought he was. He was mad against Mr. Copley and St. Leger
too. He promised whatever Dolly wanted.

And when they were at home, and an opportunity was found, the agreement
abovementioned was written out, and Rupert made two copies, and one of
them he kept and one Dolly kept; both signed with both their names.

So Rupert was safe. From that day, however, things went less well with
Mr. Copley. He began by small degrees to withdraw himself from the
constant attendance upon his wife and daughter which he had hitherto
practised, leaving them again to Lawrence's care. By little and little
this came about. Mr. Copley excused himself in the morning, and was
with them in the evening; then after a while he was missing in the
evening. Dolly tried to hold him fast, by getting him to sit for his
picture; and the very observation under which she held him so, showed
her that he was suffering from evil influences. His eyes had lost
something of their frank, manly sparkle; avoided hers; looked dull and
unsteady. The lines of his whole face inexplicably were changed; an
expression of feebleness and something like humiliation taking place of
the alert, bold, self-sufficient readiness of look and tone which had
been natural to him. Dolly read it all, with a heart torn in two, and
painted it as she read it; making a capital picture of him. But it
grieved Dolly sorely, while it delighted everybody else.

"What is it worth, father?" she asked, concealing as well as she could
what she felt.

"Worth? it's worth anything you please. It is glorious, Dolly!"

"I work for money," she said archly.

"Upon my word, you could turn a pretty penny if you did. This is
capital work," said he, turning to Lawrence. "If this had been done on
ivory, now"----

"I did a likeness of Mr. St. Leger for his mother--that was on ivory.
She sent me ten pounds for it."

"Ten pounds to _her_. To anybody else, I should say it was worth
twenty,--well," said Mr. Copley.

"So I say, sir," Lawrence answered. "I am going to pay that price for
my copy."

"Then will you pay me twenty pounds, sir?"

"I?" said Mr. Copley. "Not exactly, Dolly! I am not made of money, like
your friend Lawrence here. Wish I could, and you should have it."

"Will you get me customers, then, father?"

"Customers!" echoed Mr. Copley.

"Yes. Because you are not made of money, you know, father; and I want a
good deal of money."

"You!" said Mr. Copley, looking at her. For, indeed, Dolly had never
been one of those daughters who make large demands on their father's
purse. But Dolly answered now with a calm, practical tone and manner.

"Yes, I do, father; and mother has a longing for some of those Arabian
Nights things in the curiosity shops. You know people enough here,
father; show them your picture and get me customers."

"Don't be ridiculous, Dolly," said her father. "We are not at the point
of distress yet. And," he added in a graver tone, as Lawrence left the
room, "you must remember, that even if I were willing to see my
daughter working as a portrait-painter, Mr. St. Leger might have a
serious objection to his wife doing it--or a lady who is to be his
wife."

"Mr. St. Leger may dispose of his wife when he gets her," said Dolly
calmly. "I am not that lady."

"Yes, you are."

"Not if I know anything about it."

"Then you don't!" said Mr. Copley. "It is proverbial that girls never
know their own minds. Why, Dolly, it would be the making of you, child."

"No, father; only of my dresses."

Mr. Copley was a little provoked.

"What's your objection to St. Leger? Can you give one?" he asked hotly.

"Father, he doesn't suit me."

"You don't like him, because you don't like him. A real woman's reason!
Isn't he handsome?"

"Very. And sleepy."

"He's wide awake enough for purposes of business."

"Maybe; not for purposes of pleasure. Father, beautiful paintings and
grand buildings are nothing to him; nothing at all; and music might be
the tinkling of tin kettles for all the meaning he finds in it. Father,
dear, do get me some customers!"

"You are a silly girl, Dolly!" said her father, breaking away, and not
very well pleased. Neither did he bring her customers. Those were not
the days of photographs. Dolly took to painting little bits of views in
Venice; here a palace; there a bridge over a canal; the pillars with
the dragon and St. Theodore, the Place of St. Mark, bits of the Riva
with boats; she finished up these little pictures with great care and
delicacy of execution, and then employed Rupert to dispose of them in
the stationers' and fancy shops. He had some difficulty at first in
finding the right market for her wares; however, he finally succeeded;
and Dolly could sell as many pictures as she could paint. True, not for
a great price; they did not pay so well as likenesses; but Dolly took
what she could get, feeling very uncertain of supplies for a time that
was coming. Mr. Copley certainly was not flush with his money now; and
she did not flatter herself that his ways were mending.

Less and less did his wife and daughter see of his company.

"Rupert," said Dolly doubtfully, one day, "do you know where my father
goes, so much of the time?"

"No," said Rupert; "that's just what I don't. But I can find out, easy."

Dolly did not say, Do; she did not say anything; she stood pondering
and anxious by the window. Neither did Rupert ask further; he acted.

It came by degrees to be a pretty regular thing, that Mr. Copley spent
the evening abroad, excused himself from going anywhere with his
family, and when they did see him wore an uncertain, purposeless,
vagrant sort of look and air. By degrees this began to strike even
Mrs. Copley.

"I wish you would just make up your mind to marry Mr. St. Leger!" she
said almost weepingly one day. "Then all would go right. I believe it
would make me well, to begin with; and it would bring your father right
back to his old self."

"How, mother?" Dolly said sadly.

"It would give him spirit at once. It is because he is out of spirits
that he does so." (Mrs. Copley did not explain herself.) "I know, if he
were once sure of seeing you Mrs. St. Leger, all would come right.
Lawrence would help him; he _could_ help him then."

"Who would help me?"

"Nonsense, Dolly! Who would help you choose your dresses and wear your
diamonds; that is all the difficulty you would have. But all's going
wrong!" said Mrs. Copley, sinking into tears; "and you are selfish,
like everybody else, and think only of yourself."

Dolly bore this in silence. It startled her, however, greatly, to find
her own view of things held by her much less sharp-sighted mother. She
pondered on what was best to do. Should she sit still and quietly see
her father lost irretrievably in the bad habits which were creeping
upon him? But what step could she take? She asked herself this question
evening after evening.

It was late one night, and Lawrence as well as her father had been out
ever since dinner. Mrs. Copley, weary and dispirited, had gone to bed.
Dolly stood at the window looking out, not to see how the moonlight
sparkled on the water and glanced on the vessels, but in a hopeless
sort of expectancy watching for her father to come. The stream of
passers-by had grown thin, and was growing thinner.

"Rupert," Dolly spoke after a long silence, "do you know where my
father is?"

"Can't say I do. I could give a pretty fair guess, though, if you asked
me."

"Could you take me to him?"

"Take you to him!" exclaimed the young man, starting.

"Can you find the way? Where is it?"

"I've been there often enough," said Rupert.

"What place is it?"

"The queerest place you ever saw. Do you recollect Mr. St. Leger
telling us once about wine-shops in Venice? You and he were talking"----

"Yes, yes, I remember. Is it one of those? Not a café?"

"Not a café at all; neither a café nor a trattoria. Just a wine-shop.
Nothing in it but wine casks, and the mugs or jugs of white and blue
crockery that they draw the wine into; it's the most ridiculous place
altogether I ever was in. I haven't been in it now, that's a fact."

"What were you there for so often, then?"

"Well," said Rupert, "I was looking after things."

"Drink wine and eat nothing!" said Dolly again. "Are there many people
there?"

"Well, you can eat if you have a mind to; there are folks enough to
sell you things; though they don't belong to the establishment. They
come in from the street, with ever so many sorts of things, directly
they see a customer sit down; fish and oysters, and cakes and fruit.
But the shop sells nothing but wine. Mr. St. Leger says that is good."

"Not many people there?" Dolly asked again.

