This makes the fascination of war, which is in itself, of course,
brutal and disgusting. Dr. Johnson says, truly, that the naval and
military professions have the dignity of danger, since mankind
reverence those who have overcome fear, which is so general a
weakness. The error usually lies in exaggerating the difference, in
this respect, between war and peace. Madame de Sévigné writes to her
cousin, Bussy-Rabutin, after a campaign, "I cannot understand how
one can expose himself a thousand times, as you have done, and not
be killed a thousand times also." To which the Count answers, that
she overrates the danger; a soldier may often make several campaigns
without drawing a sword, and be in a battle without seeing an enemy,
--as, for example, where one is in the second line, or rear guard,
and the first line decides the contest. He finally quotes Turenne,
and Maurice, Prince of Orange, to the same effect, that a military
life is less perilous than civilians suppose.

It is, therefore, a foolish delusion to suppose, that, as the world
grows more pacific, the demand for physical courage passes away. It
is only that its applications become nobler. In barbarous ages, men
fight against men and animals, and need, like Achilles, to be fed on
the marrow of wild beasts. As time elapses, the savage animals are
extirpated, the savage men are civilized; but Nature, acting through
science, commerce, society, is still creating new exigencies of peril,
and evoking new types of courage to meet them. Grace Darling at her
oars, Kane in his open boat, Stephenson testing his safety-lamp in
the terrible pit,--what were the trophies of Miltiades to these? The
ancient Agamemnon faced no danger so memorable as that ocean-storm
which beset his modern namesake, bearing across the waters a more
priceless treasure than Helen, pride of Greece. And, indeed, setting
aside these sublimities of purpose, and looking simply at the
quantity and quality of peril, it is doubtful whether any tale of
the sea-kings thrills the blood more worthily than the plain
newspaper narrative of Captain Thomas Bailey, in the Newburyport
schooner, "Atlas," beating out of the Gut of Canso, in a gale of wind,
with his crew of two men and a boy, up to their waists in the water.

It is easy to test the matter. Let any one, who believes that the
day of daring is past, beg or buy a ride on the locomotive of the
earliest express-train, some cold winter-morning. One wave of the
conductor's hand, and the live engine springs snorting beneath you,
as no Arab steed ever rushed over the desert. It is not like being
bound to an arrow, for that motion would be smoother; it is not like
being hurled upon an ocean crest, for that would be slower. You are
rushing onward, and you are powerless; that is all. The frosty air
gives such a brittle and slippery look to the two iron lines which
lie between you and destruction, that you appreciate the Mohammedan
fable of the Bridge Herat, thinner than a hair, sharper than a
scimitar, which stretches over hell and leads to paradise. Nothing
has passed over that perilous track for many hours; the cliffs may
have fallen and buried it, the frail bridges may have sunk beneath it,
or diabolical malice put obstructions on it, no matter how trivial,
equally fatal to you; each curving embankment may hide unknown horrors,
from which, though all others escape, you, on the engine, cannot;
and yet, still the surging locomotive bounds onward, beneath your
mad career. You draw a long breath, as you dismount at last, a hundred
miles away, as if you had been riding with Mazeppa or Brunechilde,
and yet escaped alive. And there, by your side, stands the quiet,
grimy engineer, turning already to his tobacco and his newspaper,
and unconscious, while he reads of the charge at Balaklava, that
his life is Balaklava every day.

Physical courage is not, therefore, a thing to be so easily set aside.
Nor is it, as our reformers appear sometimes to assume, a mere
corollary from moral courage, and, ultimately, to be merged in that.
Moral courage is rare enough, no doubt,--probably the rarer quality
of the two, as it is the nobler; but they are things diverse, and
not necessarily united. There have been men, and still are such,
leaders of their age in moral courage, and yet physically timid. This
is not as it should be. God placed man at the head of the visible
universe, and if he is to be thrown from his control, daunted by a
bullet, or a wild horse, or a flash of lightning, or a lee shore,
then man is dishonored, and the order of the universe deranged. No
matter what the occasion of the terror is, a mouse or a martyrdom,
fear dethrones us. "He that lives in fear of death," said Cæsar,
"at every moment feels its tortures. I will die but once."

Having claimed thus much, we can still readily admit that we cannot
yet estimate the precise effect upon physical courage of a state of
permanent national peace, since indeed we are not yet within sight
of that desirable consummation. Meanwhile, let us attempt some
slight sketch and classification of the different types of physical
courage, as already existing, among which are to be enumerated the
spontaneous courage of the blood,--the courage of habit,--magnetic
or transmitted courage,--and the courage inspired by self-devotion.

There is a certain innate fire of the blood, which does not dare
perils for the sake of principle, nor grow indifferent to them from
familiarity, nor confront them under support of a stronger will,--but
loves them for their own sake, without reference to any ulterior
object. There is no special merit in it, for it is a matter of
temperament. Yet it often conceals itself under the finer names of
self-devotion and high purpose,--as George Borrow convinced himself
that he was actuated by evangelical zeal to spread the Bible in Spain,
though one sees, through every line of his narrative, that it was
chiefly the adventure which allured him, and that he would as
willingly have distributed the Koran in London, had it been equally
contraband. No surplices, no libraries, no counting-house desks can
eradicate this natural instinct. Achilles, disguised among the
maidens, was detected by the wily Ulysses, because he chose arms,
not jewels, from the travelling merchant's stores. In the most
placid life, a man may pant for danger; and we know quiet,
unobtrusive men who have confessed to us that they never step into a
railroad-car without the secret hope of a collision.

This is the courage of heroic races, as Highlanders, Circassians,
Montenegrins, Afghans, and those Arabs among whom Urquhart finely
said that peace could not be purchased by victory. Where destined to
appear at all, it is likely to be developed in extreme youth, which
explains such instances as the _gamins de Paris_, and that of Sir
Cloudesley Shovel, who in boyhood conveyed a dispatch during a naval
engagement, swimming through double lines of fire. Indeed, among
heroic races, young soldiers are preferable for daring; such, at
least, is the testimony of the highest authorities, as Ney and
Wellington. "I have found," said the Duke, "that raw troops, however
inferior to the old ones in manoeuvring, may be superior to them in
downright hard fighting with the enemy. At Waterloo, the young ensigns
and lieutenants, who had never before seen an enemy, rushed to meet
death, as if they were playing at cricket."

But though youth is good for an onset, it needs habit and discipline
to give steadiness. A boy will risk his life where a veteran will be
too circumspect to follow him; but to perform a difficult manoeuvre
in face of an enemy requires Sicinius with forty-five scars on his
breast. "The very apprehension of a wound," said Seneca, "startles a
man when he first bears arms; but an old soldier bleeds boldly, for
he knows that a man may lose blood and yet win the day." Before the
battle of Preston Pans, Mr. Ker of Graden, "an experienced officer,"
mounted on a gray pony, coolly reconnoitred all the difficult ground
between the two armies, crossed it in several directions,
deliberately alighted more than once to lead his horse through gaps
made for that purpose in the stone walls,--under a constant shower
of musket-balls. He finally returned unhurt to Charles Edward, and
dissuaded him from crossing. Undoubtedly, any raw Highlander in the
army would have incurred the same risk, with or without a sufficient
object; but not one of them would have brought back so clear a report,
--if, indeed, he had brought himself back.

The most common evidence of this dependence of many persons' courage
on habit is in the comparative timidity of brave men against novel
dangers,--as of sailors on horseback, and mountaineers at sea. Nay,
the same effect is sometimes produced merely by different forms of
danger within the same sphere. Sea-captains often attach an
exaggerated sense of peril to small boats; Condé confessed himself a
coward in a street-fight; and William the Conqueror is said to have
trembled exceedingly (_rehementer tremens_) during the disturbance
which interrupted his coronation. It was probably from the same cause,
that Mrs. Inchbald, the most fearless of actresses, was once
entirely overcome by timidity on assuming a character in a masquerade.

On a larger scale, the mere want of habitual exposure to danger will
often cause a whole population to be charged with greater cowardice
than really belongs to them. Thus, after the coronation of the
Chevalier, in the Scottish insurrection of 1745, although the
populace of Edinburgh crowded around him, kissing his very garments
when he walked abroad, yet scarcely a man could be enlisted, in view
of the certainty of an approaching battle with General Cope. And
before this, when the Highlanders were marching on the city, out of a
volunteer corps of four hundred raised to meet them, all but
forty-five deserted before the gate was passed.[1] Yet there is no
reason to doubt that these frightened citizens, after having once
stood fire, might have been as brave as the average. It was a saying
in Kansas, that the New England men needed to be shot at once or
twice, after which they became the bravest of the brave.

This habitual courage mingles itself, doubtless, with the third
species, the magnetic, or transmitted. No mental philosopher has yet
done justice to the wondrous power of leadership, the "art Napoleon."
The ancients stated it best in their proverb, that an army of stags
led by a lion is more formidable than an army of lions led by a
stag. It was for this reason that the Greeks used to send to Sparta,
not for soldiers, but for a general. When Crillon, _l'homme sans peur_,
defended Quilleboeuf with a handful of men against Marshal Villars,
the latter represented to him, that it was madness to resist such
superiority of numbers, to which the answer was simply,--"_Crillon
est dedans, et Villars est dehors_." The event proved that the hero
inside was stronger than the army outside.

Every one knows that there is a certain magnetic power in courage,
apart from all physical strength. In a family of lone women, there is
usually some one whose presence is held to confer safety on the house;
she may be a delicate invalid, but she is not afraid. The same
quality explains the difference in the demeanor of different
companies of men and women, in great emergencies of danger. Read one
narrative of shipwreck, and human nature seems all sublime; read
another, and, under circumstances equally desperate, it appears base,
selfish, grovelling. The difference lies simply in the influence of
a few leading spirits. Ordinarily, as is the captain, so are the
officers, so are the passengers, so are the sailors. Bonaparte said,
that at the beginning of almost every battle there was a moment when
the bravest troops were liable to sudden panic; let the personal
control of the general once lead them past that, and the field was
half won.

The courage of self-devotion, lastly, is the faculty evoked by
special exigencies, in persons who have before given no peculiar
evidence of courage. It belongs especially to the race of martyrs
and enthusiasts, whose personal terrors vanish in the greatness of
the object, so that Joan of Arc, listening to the songs of the angels,
does not feel the flames. This, indeed, is the accustomed form in
which woman's courage proclaims itself at last, unsuspected until
the crisis comes. This has given us the deeds of Flora Macdonald,
Jane Lane, and the Countess of Derby; the rescue of Lord Nithisdale
by his wife, and that planned for Montrose by Lady Margaret Durham;
the heroism of Catherine Douglas, thrusting her arm within the
stanchions of the doorway to protect James I. of Scotland, till his
murderers shattered the frail barrier; and that sublimest narrative
of woman's devotion, Gertrude Van der Wart at her husband's execution.
It is possible that all these women may have been timid and shrinking,
before the hour of trial; and every emergency, in peace or war,
brings out some such instances. At the close of the troubles of 1856,
in Kansas, a traveller chanced to be visiting a lady in Lawrence, who,
in opening her work-basket, accidentally let fall a small pistol. She
smiled and blushed, and presently acknowledged, that, when she had
first pulled the trigger experimentally, six months before, she had
shut her eyes and screamed, although there was only a percussion-cap
to explode. Yet it afterwards appeared that she was one of the few
women who remained in their houses, to protect them by their presence,
when the town was entered by the Missourians,--and also one of the
still smaller number who brought their rifles to aid their husbands
in the redoubt, when two hundred were all that could be rallied
against three thousand, in September of that eventful year. Thus
easily is the transition effected!

This is the courage, also, of Africans, as manifested among ourselves,
--the courage created by desperate emergencies. Suppled by long
slavery, softened by mixture of blood, the black man seems to pass
at one bound, as women do, from cowering pusillanimity to the topmost
height of daring. The giddy laugh vanishes, the idle chatter is
hushed, and the buffoon becomes a hero. Nothing in history surpasses
the bravery of the Maroons of Surinam, as described by Stedman, or
of those of Jamaica, as delineated by Dallas. Agents of the
"Underground Railroad" report that the incidents which daily come to
their knowledge are beyond all Greek, all Roman fame. These men and
women, who have tested their courage in the lonely swamp against the
alligator and the bloodhound, who have starved on prairies, hidden
in holds, clung to locomotives, ridden hundreds of miles cramped in
boxes, head downward, equally near to death if discovered or deserted,
--and who have then, after enduring all this, gone voluntarily back
to risk it over again, for the sake of wife or child,--what are we
pale faces, that we should claim a rival capacity with theirs for
heroic deeds? What matter, if none, below the throne of God, can now
identify that nameless negro in the Tennessee iron-works, who, during
the last insurrection, said "he knew all about the plot, but would
die before he would tell? He _received seven hundred and fifty
lashes and died_." Yet where, amid the mausoleums of the world,
is there carved an epitaph like that?

The courage of blood, of habit, or of imitation is not necessarily a
very exalted thing. But the courage of self-devotion cannot be
otherwise than noble, however wasted on fanaticism or delusion. It
enters the domain of conscience. Yet, although the sublimest, it is
not necessarily the most undaunted form of courage. It is vain to
measure merit by martyrdom, without reference to the temperament,
the occasion, and the aim. There is no passion in the mind of man so
weak, said Lord Bacon, but it mates and masters the fear of death.
Sinner, as well as saint, may be guillotined or lynched, and endure
it well. A red Indian or a Chinese robber will dare the stake as
composedly as an early Christian or an abolitionist. One of the
bravest of all death-scenes was the execution of Simon, Lord Lovat,
who was unquestionably one of the greatest scoundrels that ever
burdened the earth. We must look deeper. The test of a man is not in
the amount of his endurance, but in its motive; does he love the
right, he may die in glory on a bed of down; is he false and base,
these things thrust discord into his hymn of dying anguish, and no
crown of thorns can sanctify his drooping head. Physical courage is,
after all, but a secondary quality, and needs a sublime motive to
make it thoroughly sublime.

Among all these different forms of courage it is almost equally true
that it is the hardest of all qualities to predict or identify, in
an individual case, before the actual trial. Many a man has been
unable to discover, till the critical moment, whether he himself
possessed it or not. It is often denied to the healthy and strong,
and given to the weak. The pugilist may be a poltroon, and the
bookworm a hero. We have seen the most purely ideal philosopher in
this country face the black muzzles of a dozen loaded revolvers with
his usual serene composure. And on the other hand, we have known a
black-bearded backwoodsman, whose mere voice and presence would
quell any riot among the lumberers,--yet this man, nicknamed by his
_employees_ "the black devil," confessed himself to be in secret
the most timid of lambs.

One reason of this difficulty of estimate lies in the fact, that
courage and cowardice often complicate themselves with other
qualifies, and so show false colors. For instance, the presence or
absence of modesty may disguise the genuine character. The
unpretending are not always timid, nor always brave. The boaster is
not always, but only commonly, a coward. Were it otherwise, how
could we explain the existence of courage in Frenchmen or Indians?
Barking dogs sometimes bite, as many a small boy, too trustful of the
proverb, has found to his cost. "If that be a friend of yours," says
Brantême's brave Spanish Cavalier, "pray for his soul, for he has
quarrelled with me." Indeed, the Gascons, whose name is identified
with boasting, (gasconade,) were always among the bravest races in
Europe.

Again, the mere quality of caution is often mistaken for cowardice,
while heedlessness passes for daring. A late eminent American
sculptor, a man of undoubted courage, is said to have always taken
the rear car in a railroad train. Such a spirit of prudence, where
well-directed, is to be viewed with respect. We ought not to
reverence the blind recklessness which sits on the safety-valve
during a steamboat-race, but the cool composure which neither
underrates a danger nor shrinks from it. The best encomium is that
of Malcolm M'Leod upon Charles Edward:--"He was the most cautious man,
not to be a coward, and the bravest man, not to be rash, that I ever
saw"; or that of Charles VII. of France upon Pierre d'Aubusson:--"Never
did I see united so much fire and so much wisdom."

Still again, men vary as to the form of danger which tests them most
severely. The Irish are undoubtedly a brave nation, but their
courage is apt to vanish in presence of sickness. They are not,
however, alone in this, if we may judge from the newspaper statements,
that, after the recent quarantine riots in New York, a small-pox
patient lay all day untended in the Park, because no one dared to go
near him. It is said of Dr. Johnson, that he was a hero against pain,
but a coward against death. Probably the contrary emotion is quite
as common. To a believer in immortality, death, even when premature,
can scarcely be regarded as an unmitigated evil, but pain enforces
its own recognition. We can hardly agree with the frightened recruit
in the farce, who thinks "Victory or Death" a forbidding war-cry,
but "Victory or Wooden Legs" a more appetizing alternative.

Beside these complications, there are those arising from the share
which conscience has in the matter. "Thrice is he armed that hath
his quarrel just," and the most resolute courage will sometimes
quail in a bad cause, and even die in its armor, like Bois-Guilbert.
It was generally admitted, on both sides, in Kansas, that the
"Border Ruffians" seldom dared face an equal number; yet nobody
asserted that these men were intrinsically deficient in daring; it
was only conscience which made cowards of them all.

But it is, after all, the faculty of imagination which, more than
all else, confuses the phenomena of courage and cowardice. A very
imaginative child is almost sure to be reproached with timidity,
while mere stolidity takes rank as courage. The bravest boy may
sometimes be most afraid of the dark, or of ghosts, or of the great
mysteries of storms and the sea. Even the mighty Charlemagne
shuddered when the professed enchanter brought before him the vast
forms of Dietrich and his Northern companions, on horseback. We once
saw a party of boys tested by an alarm which appealed solely to the
imagination. The only one among them who stood the test was the most
cowardly of the group, who escaped the contagion through sheer lack
of this faculty. Any imaginative person can occasionally test this
on himself by sleeping in a large lonely house, or by bathing alone
in some solitary place by the great ocean; there comes a thrill
which is not born of terror, and the mere presence of a child breaks
the spell,--though it would only enhance the actual danger, if danger
there were.

This explains the effect of darkness on danger. "Let Ajax perish in
the face of day." Who has not shuddered over the description of
that Arkansas duel, fought by two naked combatants, with pistol and
bowie-knife, in a dark room? One thrills to think of those first
few moments of breathless, sightless, hopeless, hushed expectation,
--then the confused encounter, the slippery floor, the invisible,
ghastly terrors of that horrible chamber. Many a man would shrink
from that, who would march coolly up to the cannon's mouth by
daylight.

It is probably this mingling of imaginative excitement which makes
the approach of peril often more terrible than its actual contact.
"A true knight," said Sir Philip Sidney, "is fuller of gay bravery
in the midst than at the beginning of danger." The boy Condé was
reproached with trembling, in his first campaign. "My body trembles,"
said the hero, "with the actions my soul meditates." And it is said
of Charles V., that he often trembled when arming for battle, but in
the conflict was as cool as if it were impossible for an emperor to
be killed.

These stray glimpses into the autobiography of heroism are of
inestimable value, and they are scanty at best. It is said of Turenne,
that he was once asked by M. de Lamoignon, at the dinner-table of
the latter, if his courage was never shaken at the commencement of a
battle? "Yes," said Turenne, "I sometimes undergo great nervous
excitement; but there are in the army a great multitude of subaltern
officers and soldiers who experience none whatever." This goes to
illustrate the same point.

To give to any form of courage an available or working value, it is
essential that it have two qualities, promptness and persistency.
What Napoleon called "two-o'clock-in-the-morning courage" is rare.
It requires great enthusiasm or great discipline to be proof against
a surprise. It is said that Suwarrow, even in peace, always slept
fully armed, boots and all. "When I was lazy," he said, "and wanted
to enjoy a comfortable sleep, I usually took off one spur." In
regard to persistency, history is full of instances of unexpected
reverses and eleventh-hour triumphs. The battle of Marengo was
considered hopeless, for the first half of the day, and a retreat was
generally expected, on the part of the French; when Desaix,
consulted by Bonaparte, looked at his watch and said,--"The battle
is completely lost, but it is only two o'clock, and we shall have
time to gain another." He then made his famous and fatal
cavalry-charge, and won the field. It was from a noble appreciation
of this quality of persistency, that, when the battle of Cannæ was
lost, and Hannibal was measuring by bushels the rings of the fallen
Roman knights, the Senate of Rome voted thanks to the defeated
general, Consul Terentius Varro, for not having despaired of the
republic.

Thus armed at all points, incapable of being either surprised or
exhausted, courage achieves results which seem miraculous. It is an
element of inspiration, something superadded and incalculable, when
all the other forces are exhausted. When we consider how really
formidable becomes the humblest of quadrupeds, cat or rat, when it
grows mad and desperate and throws all personal fear behind, it is
clear that there must be a reserved power in human daring which
defies computation and equalizes the most fearful odds. Take one man,
mad with excitement or intoxication, place him with his back to the
wall, a knife in his hand, and the fire of utter frenzy in his
eyes,--and who, among the thousand bystanders, dares make the first
attempt to disarm him? Desperate courage makes one a majority. Baron
Trenck nearly escaped from the fortress of Glatz at noonday,
snatching a sword from an officer, passing all the sentinels with a
sudden rush, and almost effecting his retreat to the mountains;
"which incident will prove," he says, "that adventurous and even
rash daring will render the most improbable undertakings successful,
and that desperate attempts may often make a general more fortunate
and famous than the wisest and best-concerted plans."

It is this miraculous quality which helps to explain the
extraordinary victories of history: as where the army of Lucullus at
Tigranocerta slew one hundred thousand barbarians with the loss of
only a hundred men,--or where Cortés conquered Mexico with six
hundred foot and sixteen horse. The astounding narratives in the
chivalry romances, where the historian risks his Palmerin or Amadis
as readily against twenty giants as one, secure of bringing him
safely through,--or the corresponding modern marvels of Alexandre
Dumas,--seem scarcely exaggerations of actual events. A Portuguese,
at the siege of Goa, inserted a burning match in a cask of gunpowder,
then grasped it in his arms, and, crying to his companions,
"Stand aside, I bear my own and many men's lives," threw it among
the enemy, of whom a hundred were killed by the explosion, the bearer
being left unhurt. John Haring, on a Flemish dyke, held a thousand
men at bay, saved his army, and finally escaped uninjured. And the
motto of Bayard, _Vires agrainis unus habet_, was given him after
singly defending a bridge against two hundred Spaniards. Such men
appear to bear charmed lives, and to be identical with the laws of
Fate. "What a soldier, what a Roman, was thy father, my young bride!
How could they who never saw him have discoursed so rightly upon
virtue?"

From popular want of faith in these infinite resources of daring, it
is a common thing for persons of eminent courage to be stigmatized
as rash. This has been strikingly the case, for instance, in modern
times, with the Marquis of Wellesley and Sir Charles Napier. When the
Duke of Wellington was in the Peninsula in 1810, the City of London
addressed the throne, protesting against the bestowal of "honorable
distinctions upon a general who had thus far exhibited, with equal
rashness and ostentation, nothing but an useless valor."

But if bravery is liable to exist in excess, on the one side, it is
a comfort to think that it is capable of cultivation, where deficient.
There may be a few persons born absolutely without the power of
courage, as without the susceptibility to music,--but very few; and,
no doubt, the elements of daring, like those of musical perception,
can be developed in almost all. Once rouse the enthusiasm of the will,
and courage can be systematically disciplined. Emerson's maxim gives
the best regimen: "Always do what you are afraid to do." If your lot
is laid amid scenes of peace, then carry the maxim into the arts of
peace. Are you afraid to swim that river? then swim it. Are you
afraid to leap that fence? then leap it. Do you shrink from the
dizzy height of yonder magnificent pine? then climb it, and
"throw down the top," as they do in the forests of Maine. Goethe
cured himself of dizziness by ascending the lofty stagings of the
Frankfort carpenters. Nothing is insignificant that is great enough
to alarm you. If you cannot think of a grizzly bear without a shudder,
then it is almost worth your while to travel to the Rocky Mountains
in order to encounter the reality. It is said that Van Amburgh
attributed all his power over animals to the similar rule given him
by his mother in his boyhood: "If anything frightens you, walk up
and face it." Applying this maxim boldly, he soon satisfied himself
that man possessed a natural power of control over all animals, if
he dared to exercise it. He said that every animal divined by
unerring instinct the existence of fear in his ruler, and a moment's
indecision might cost one's life. On being asked, what he should do,
if he found himself in the desert, face to face with a lion, he
answered, "If I wished for certain death, I should turn and run away."

Physical courage may be educated; but it must be trained for its own
sake. We say again, it must not be left to moral courage to include
it, for the two faculties have different elements,--and what God has
joined, human inconsistency may put asunder. The disjunction is easy
to explain. Many men, when committed on the right side of any
question, get credit for a "moral courage," which is, in their case,
only an intense egotism, isolating them from all demand for human
sympathy. In the best cause, they prefer to belong to a party
conveniently small, and, on the slightest indications of popular
approbation, begin to suspect themselves of compromise. The abstract
martyrdom of unpopularity is therefore clear gain to them; but when
it comes to the rack and the thumbscrew, the revolver and the
bowie-knife, the same habitual egotism makes them cowards. These men
are annoying in themselves, and still worse because they throw
discredit on the noble and unselfish reformers with whom they are
identified in position. But even among this higher class there are
differences of temperament, and it costs one man an effort to face
the brute argument of the slung-shot, while another's fortitude is
not seriously tested till it comes to facing the newspaper editors.

We have given but a few aspects of a rich and endless theme, and
have depicted these more by examples than analysis, mindful of the
saying of Sidney, that Alexander received more bravery of mind by
the example of Achilles than by hearing the definition of fortitude.
If we have seemed to draw illustrations too profusely from the
records of battles, it is to be remembered, that, even if war be not
the best nurse of heroisms, it is their best historian. The chase,
for instance, though perhaps as prolific in deeds of daring as the
camp, has found few Cummings and Gerards for annalists, and the more
trivial aim of the pursuit diminishes the permanence of its records.
The sublime fortitude of hospitals, the bravery shown in infected
cities, the fearlessness of firemen and of sailors, these belong to
those times of peace which have as yet few historians. But we have
sought to exhibit the deep foundations and instincts of courage, and
it matters little whence the illustrations come. Doubtless, for every
great deed ever narrated, there were a hundred greater ones untold;
and the noblest valor of the world may sleep unrecorded, like the
heroes before Homer.

But there are things which, once written, the world does not
willingly let die; embalmed in enthusiasm, borne down on the
unconquerable instincts of childhood, they become imperishable and
eternal. We need not travel to visit the graves of the heroes: they
are become a part of the common air; their line is gone out to all
generations. Shakspeares are but their servants; no change of time
or degradation of circumstance can debar us from their lesson. The
fascination which every one finds in the simplest narrative of
daring is the sufficient testimony to its priceless and permanent
worth. Human existence finds its range expanded, when Demosthenes
describes Philip of Macedon, his enemy: "I saw this Philip, with
whom we disputed for empire. I saw him, though covered with wounds,
his eye struck out, his collar-bone broken, maimed in his hands,
maimed in his feet, still resolutely rush into the midst of dangers,
ready to deliver up to Fortune any part of his body she might require,
provided he might live honorably and gloriously with the rest."
Would it not be shameful, that war should leave us such memories as
these, and peace bequeathe us only money and repose? True, "peace
hath her victories, no less renowned than war." No less! but they
should be infinitely greater. _Esto miles pacificus_, "Be the
soldier of peace," was the priestly benediction of mediaeval knights;
and the aspirations of humaner ages should lead us into heroisms such
as Plutarch never portrayed, and even Bayard and Sidney only
prophesied, but died without the sight of.


[Footnote 1: It is worth mentioning, that among the deserters was
one valorous writing-master, who had previously prepared a
breastplate of two quires of his-own foolscap, inscribing thereon,
in his best penmanship,--"This is the body of J.M.; pray, give it
Christian burial."]


       *       *       *       *       *


  NOVEMBER.

  Much have I spoken of the faded leaf;
    Long have I listened to the wailing wind,
  And watched it ploughing through the heavy clouds;
    For autumn charms my melancholy mind.

  When autumn comes, the poets sing a dirge:
    The year must perish; all the flowers are dead;
  The sheaves are gathered; and the mottled quail
    Runs in the stubble, but the lark has fled!

  Still, autumn ushers in the Christmas cheer,
    The holly-berries and the ivy-tree:
  They weave a chaplet for the Old Year's heir;
    These waiting mourners do not sing for me!

  I find sweet peace in depths of autumn woods,
    Where grow the ragged ferns and roughened moss;
  The naked, silent trees have taught me this,--
    The loss of beauty is not always loss!


A VISIT TO THE AUTOCRAT'S LANDLADY.

_By the Special Reporter of the "Oceanic Miscellany"_.


The door was opened by a stout, red-armed lump of a woman, who, in
reply to my question, said her name was Bridget, but Biddy they
calls her mostly. There was a rickety hat-stand in the entry, upon
which, by the side of a schoolboy's cap, there hung a broad-brimmed
white hat, somewhat fatigued by use, but looking gentle and kindly,
as I have often noticed good old gentlemen's hats do, after they
have worn them for a time. The door of the dining-room was standing
wide open, and I went in. A long table, covered with an oil-cloth,
ran up and down the length of the room, and yellow wooden chairs were
ranged about it. She showed me where the Gentleman used to sit, and,
at the last part of the time, the Schoolmistress next to him. The
chairs were like the rest, but it was odd enough to notice that they
stood close together, touching each other, while all the rest were
straggling and separate. I observed that peculiar atmospheric flavor
which has been described by Mr. Balzac, (the French story-teller who
borrows so many things from some of our American loading writers,)
under the name of _odeur de pension_. It is, as one may say, an
olfactory perspective of an endless vista of departed breakfasts,
dinners, and suppers. It is similar, if not identical, in all
temperate climates; a kind of neutral tint, which forms the
perpetual background upon which the banquet of today strikes out
its keener but more transitory aroma. I don't think it necessary to
go into any further particulars, because this atmospheric character
has the effect of making the dining-rooms of all boarding-houses
seem very much alike; and the accident of a hair-cloth sofa, cold,
shiny, slippery, prickly,--or a veneered sideboard, with a scale off
here and there, and a knob or two missing,--or a portrait, with one
hand half under its coat, the other resting on a pious-looking book,
--these accidents, and such as these, make no great difference.

The landlady soon presented herself, and I followed her into the
parlor, which was a decent apartment, with a smart centre-table, on
which lay an accordion, a recent number of the "Pactolian," a
gilt-edged, illustrated book or two, and a copy of the works of that
distinguished native author, to whom I feel very spiteful, on
account of his having, some years ago, attacked _a near friend of
mine_, and whom, on Christian principles, I do not mention,--though
I have noticed, that, where there is an accordion on the table, his
books are apt to be lying near it.

The landlady was a "wilted," (not exactly withered,) sad-eyed woman,
of the thin-blooded sort, but firm-fibred, and sharpened and made
shrewd by her calling, so that the look with which she ran me over,
in the light of a possible boarder, was so searching, that I was
half put down by it. I informed her of my errand, which was to make
some inquiries concerning two former boarders of hers, in whom a
portion of the public had expressed some interest, and of whom I
should be glad to know certain personal details,--as to their habits,
appearance, and so on. Any information she might furnish would be
looked upon in the light of a literary contribution to the pages of
the "Oceanic Miscellany," and be compensated with the well-known
liberality of the publishers of that spirited, enterprising, and
very popular periodical.

Up to this point, the landlady's countenance had kept that worried,
watchful look, which poor women, who have to fight the world
single-handed, sooner or later grow into. But now her features
relaxed a little. The blow which had crushed her life had shattered
her smile, and, as the web of shivered expression shot off its rays
across her features, I fancied that Grief had written her face all
over with 'Ws', to mark her as one of his forlorn flock of Widows.

