
The objects of the Society, as stated in the Constitution, are to
promote (in the words of Matthew Arnold, adopted as a motto), "a
clearer, deeper sense of the best in poetry and of the strength and joy
to be drawn from it";

To bring together lovers of poetry with a view to extending and
developing the intelligent interest in, and proper appreciation of,
poetry;

To form Local Centres and Reading Circles and encourage the intelligent
reading of verse with due regard to emphasis and rhythm and the poet's
meaning, and to study and discuss the art and mission of poetry;

To promote and hold private and public recitals of poetry;

To form sub-societies for the reading and study of the works of
individual poets, and to encourage the production of poetic drama.


The ordinary Membership subscription is 7s. 6d., with an entrance fee
of 2s. 6d. (The journal of the Society--THE POETRY REVIEW--is supplied
to members without further charge.)

The Society is intended to bind poetry readers and lovers together
throughout the English-speaking world, forming a desirable freemasonry,
with poetry--the first and best of all arts--as the connecting link.

By means of Local Centres membership is made active and effective,
members meeting together intimately for the reading and study of poetry
and co-operating with Headquarters in the general work of the Society.
A member of the Society is a member of the Centre most convenient for
him to attend, and a member of any Centre is a member of the Society as
a whole and may attend any Centre meetings anywhere on giving notice to
the Secretary. This Centre system carries into effect the idea of a
poetical freemasonry, a South African member visiting or going to
reside in London or South Australia or wherever the Society has a
branch being welcomed by and becoming a member of the local group.

Centres or individual members not formed into groups maintain regular
communication with the Head Office, from which advice and direction may
be obtained with respect to the formation, conduct and programme of
Centre meetings, propaganda work, etc., and each Centre is expected to
hold at least two public recitals per year, with a view to interesting
the general public and showing what an exquisite pleasure can be
derived from the intelligent reading and speaking of verse.

The Society deals practically with the art of speaking verse and holds
periodical examinations and "auditions" of readers and teachers with a
view to securing the adoption of better methods and greater attention
being given to the technique of reading and speaking. It has also under
consideration a scheme for developing its work among schools and
colleges.


ALL COMMUNICATIONS & INQUIRIES SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY,
THE POETRY SOCIETY, 16 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.


Sixth Year of Publication: first issued as _The Poetical Gazette_,
May, 1909.

THE POETRY REVIEW

Edited by STEPHEN PHILLIPS


Published monthly, 6d. net; annual postal subscription to any part of
the world, 6s. 6d. (free to members of the Poetry Society).

The leading journal devoted to Poetry and Poets (old and new), and the
cultivation of the Imagination.

Notable monthly features are the leading articles by the Editor;
brilliant new poetic drama by writers of distinction, and authoritative
surveys of poetical effort in different parts of the world.

The exceptional contents of the _Poetry Review_ give it the value of a
rare and precious publication. The January, 1913, issue, containing
Lord Dunsany's phantasy, "The Gods of the Mountain," has been advanced
in price to 1s. Subscribe through your bookseller, or send order and
remittance direct to the Publisher

THE POETRY REVIEW
16 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS
HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.

Specimen Copy Two Penny Stamps.


From Mr ERSKINE MACDONALD'S latest list of
_POETRY & DRAMA_

