But this attractive spectacle is sometimes changed with magical
rapidity!  The scene shifts; and instead of gentle zephyrs and
smooth seas, the elements pour forth all their pent-up wrath on
the devoted ship, and events are conjured into being which rouse
into action the noblest faculties of man.  If the records of the
sea were truly kept, they would tell of hurricanes, shipwrecks,
sufferings, and perils too numerous and appalling to be imagined,
to struggle successfully against which demands those
manifestations of courage and energy, that, when witnessed on the
land, elicit the admiration of mankind.  These chronicles, if
faithfully kept, would tell of desperate encounters, of piracies
where whole crews were massacred, of dark deeds of cruelty and
oppression, of pestilence on shipboard, without medical aid and
with no Florence Nightingale to soothe the pains and whisper
comfort and peace to the dying!

And what may be said of the mariners, the life-long actors on this
strange, eventful theatre,   the sea,   who perform their
unwritten and unrecorded parts, face danger and death in every
shape, and are heard and seen no more?  Is it remarkable that,
estranged from the enjoyments which cluster around the most humble
fireside, and familiar with scenes differing so widely from those
met with on the land, they should acquire habits peculiar to
themselves and form a character of their own?

The failings of this isolated class of men are well known; a
catalogue of their imperfections is scattered abroad by every wind
that blows; they are acknowledged, even by themselves, and
enlarged upon and exaggerated by those who know them not.  True
are the words of the poet,

"Men's evil manners live in brass;
Their virtues we write in water."

Those who are familiar with a seafaring life, and have had
opportunities for analyzing the character of the sailor, know that
it possesses many brilliant spots as well as blemishes, and that
it would be cruel and unjust on the part of those more favored
with the smiles of fortune, to steel their hearts against sympathy
for his sufferings, or respect for his intrinsic worth.

The sailor is said to be rough and unpolished, as well as addicted
to vices.  It is true he is seldom a proficient in classical
studies, or versed in the logic of the schools.  But he is
conversant with men and manners in various parts of the globe, and
his habits of life, and opportunities for observation, supply him
with a fund of worldly wisdom and practical knowledge, which
qualify him to render good service when strong hands and bold
hearts are in demand on the land as well as on the sea.  It should
be remembered, also, that the sailor has few opportunities of
receiving instruction in polite literature, of learning lessons of
moral culture, and of sharing the pleasures and refinements of
domestic life.  The many temptations to which he is exposed should
also be remembered, and it will be found that, with his generous
heart and noble spirit, he is far more worthy of confidence and
respect than the thousands we meet with in society, who, in spite
of words of warning and the example of good men, with every
inducement to pursue the path of rectitude, voluntarily embrace a
life of dissipation, consume their substance in riotous living,
and become slaves to habits of a degrading character.

The same records that tell of stormy passions, profligate habits,
thrilling disasters, and violent deaths on the sea, also chronicle
the manifold deeds of philanthropy, heroism, self-devotion, and
patriotism of those,

"Whose march is on the mountain wave,
Whose home is on the deep!"

Of those who, however rough and unpolished, are ever ready to
lend a protecting hand to the weak, to spend their last dollar in
encouraging the unfortunate or relieving distress, and to risk
their lives in defence of the honor of their country, and the flag
which waves over their heads.

When we look at the hardships, sufferings, and perils of the
sailor, with his few enjoyments and recreations, and consider the
services he renders society,   that by his courage and energy we
enjoy the countless advantages of commerce, and that through his
means are spread abroad the blessings of civilization and
Christianity, while for HIM "no Sabbath bell awakes the Sabbath
morn,"   we ought to cherish a sense of gratitude and indulgence
for that class of men "who go down to the sea in ships and do
business on the great waters;" to that class of men to whom we
intrust, with confidence, not only our golden treasures, but our
wives and our children, all which are most dear to us.

So far from despising the character and calling of the sailor, and
regarding him with an eye of distrust, let us throw a veil over
his faults, appreciate his virtues, be ready at all times to give
him words of good cheer, and encourage him to keep within his
bosom a clear conscience and an honest heart.  Let us not grudge
our influence or mite in favor of measures to elevate his
character and promote his comfort while sailing over the
tempestuous sea of life; or in preparing for his reception,
towards the close of the voyage, when broken down with toil and
suffering, a quiet haven, a SNUG HARBOR, where, safely moored,
secure from storms and troubles, he can calmly await the
inevitable summons aloft.

                             __________

My task is finished.  I have given, in the foregoing pages, a
brief, but strictly truthful, summary of my adventures during a
few years of my early life.  It would have been comparatively easy
to concoct a series of incidents far more wild, romantic, and
improbable, and, therefore, more interesting, than any thing
contained in this simple narrative.  But I have preferred to give
a faithful transcript of events which actually occurred.

If the tale of my trials, temptations, resources, and enjoyments
will tend to brighten a passing hour of the indulgent reader,
throw light on the character, habits of life, recreations, and
perils of the common sailor; guard an unsuspecting young man
against temptations to vice, and encourage him to exert all his
energies, and boldly press forward in the channel which leads to
usefulness and honor; my labors will not have been in vain, and I
shall never regret having attempted to lift a corner of the
curtain, which has for centuries screened from public view, JACK
IN THE FORECASTLE.

                              The End