Costa Rica has not joined as yet. It seems that she has a little private
feud on hand with Guatemala, and is not ready to make up her mind to
join any federation that holds her enemy.

She declares that she is the most prosperous of the five countries of
Central America, and that she has nothing to gain by the federation. She
does not believe that the new republic will be a permanent affair, and
does not wish to join it until she feels more sure that it will be.

To assure her of their good faith, the four other republics have offered
to name President Iglesias of Costa Rica as the first President of the
Diet which is to govern the republic. But Costa Rica still holds aloof
from the combination.

The object of the federation was to bring about a more settled state of
affairs, and arrange for the friendly adjustment of all disputes with
foreign countries.

These five small republics, joined together with a common interest,
should play a very important part in the affairs of Central America.

       *       *       *       *       *

South American affairs are still in a state of turmoil, and Argentina
has now been drawn into the quarrel.

It seems that the Argentine Republic is in sympathy with the rebels, and
has sent filibustering expeditions of men and supplies to them.

The Uruguayan Government became extremely indignant at this, and
endeavored to put a stop to such proceedings by invading Argentina. A
force of soldiers was landed on the coast of Argentina, and a vessel
flying the flag of that country was sunk by the guns of the Uruguayan
cruiser.

Argentina immediately replied by sending one of her gunboats to the
scene of action, and making preparations for war with Uruguay.

In the mean while the rebels have been gaining victories both in Brazil
and Uruguay. The fanatics under Conselhiero (see page 741) have beaten
back the Brazilian troops, and have recaptured Canudos. The Uruguayan
rebels, on their part, have defeated the Government troops at Rivera,
inflicting heavy loss on them.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a movement on foot to erect a monument to the memory of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, the well-known authoress, who died on March 5, 1897, at
the age of eighty-five.

[Illustration]

Mrs. Stowe did much for the advancement of American letters. Before she
wrote "Uncle Tom's Cabin," story-writing was in its infancy in America.
It is hard for young people to realize how the times have changed with
the coming of the many magazines and papers that we have to-day. Balzac,
Thackeray, Dickens, Dumas, and Hawthorne were publishing their wonderful
romances at the time Mrs. Stowe appeared as an authoress. She wrote many
other stories during her long life, although her fame rests very largely
upon the one book, "Uncle Tom's Cabin," of which many hundreds of
thousands of copies have been sold.

                                               GENIE H. ROSENFELD.


INVENTIONS AND DISCOVERIES.


PNEUMATIC TIRE.--It is hard upon bicyclists that the early summer
season, when everything should be most favorable for cycling, is just
the time chosen to mend the country roads.

Woe to the tires of the unwary cycler who comes suddenly upon such a
mended road! There was one the other day, a lady, coming home hot and
tired after a long run. She slackened her speed, gazed in despair at the
wicked little sharp-pointed stones which lined her path for many yards
to come, and finally, hot and tired as she was, she dismounted and
carried her bicycle to a spot where the road was again worn to a
comfortable smoothness.

[Illustration]

All cyclists meet with the same experience, and it has set the clever
heads among tire-makers thinking how the inconvenience can be remedied.
There are several new kinds of tires suggested, and one seems to be
quite a good idea. It is to be composed of a series of inflated balls,
with an outer rim to protect them from the stones, nails, etc., which
are the nightmare of the bicycle-rider. In this way, should an accident
happen to one ball, the others need not be in any way injured, and the
horror of a punctured tire would be greatly lessened.


SEWING-MACHINE THAT WILL CUT AND MAKE BUTTON-HOLES.--Here is an
invention that will delight the girls.

Our sewing-machines do so much of the work for us nowadays that one
quite resents the idea, after a garment is otherwise completed, of
sitting patiently down to make button-holes, just as our grandmothers
used to do, and their grandmothers before them. Some one has come to the
help of busy workers with a machine that has a double action. It not
only sews button-holes but cuts them. It is provided with an appliance
which stops the sewing while the hole is being cut, and again stops the
cutting movement to give place to the sewing.

[Illustration]

This ought to be a great and successful invention.


SILK MADE FROM WOOD-FIBRE.--A new process of making silk has just been
put on the market, and if it is as successful as is claimed for it,
silk may soon be as cheap as cotton.

The secret was discovered by a Frenchman, but it was no accidental
discovery--he only achieved his success after forty years of patient
study.

This Frenchman, Count Hilaire de Cordonnet, had watched and studied the
work of the silkworm, and had long thought that there ought to be some
simpler process of spinning silk than the tedious and complicated method
employed by the worms.

The Count had noticed the preference silkworms have for the leaves of
the mulberry and osage-orange trees, and, after experimenting with these
plants for some time, he decided that if he could reduce them to pulp
and treat them in certain ways, the result would be silk-fibre. But the
result was not altogether satisfactory. He found that something was
wanting to make his silk like that the silkworm produced.

He studied their work again, and found that they covered the fibre with
a kind of gum, which gave it gloss and strength.

After years of patient study he discovered the materials of which this
gum was composed, and then made another trial to see whether he had not
learned the secret at last.

By the aid of machines he tore the plants bit from bit, until they were
reduced to pulp, just as the insect reduced the leaves in the process of
eating and swallowing.

He then added the gum, and with the aid of more machinery spun out the
threads of fibre, imitating the methods of the insect as closely as
possible.

This time the experiment proved a great success. His fibre silk was as
strong, as glossy, and as brilliant as the silkworm silk, and had one
advantage over it, that when woven into breadths it did not crease so
readily.


NEW CAR.--Here is a new form of street car which is interesting.

The closed cars and the open cars have heretofore been made on different
patterns, and the companies have had to provide two kinds of cars, one
for summer and one for winter. This new car is built with movable sides,
which can be taken out with ease.

[Illustration]

The car companies should welcome this invention, for, if it is as simple
and practical as it seems, it will save them large sums of money.

                                               G.H.R.


       *       *       *       *       *

="The Great Round World" PRIZE CONTEST=


THE GREAT ROUND WORLD is now over six months old, and it feels some
anxiety to know just how much interest its readers have taken in the
news and how much information they have gained from its pages. To
ascertain this, it has been decided to offer ten prizes for the best
answers to the following:

     =Name ten of the most important events that have been mentioned in
     "The Great Round World" in the first 30 numbers, that is, up to
     number of June 3d.=

     _In mentioning these events give briefly reasons for considering
     them important._

This competition will be open to subscribers only, and any one desiring
to enter the competition must send to this office their name and the
date of their subscription; a number will then be given them.

All new subscribers will be furnished with a card entitling them to
enter the competition.

In making the selection of important events, remember that wars and
political events are not necessarily the most important. If, for
instance, the air-ship had turned out to be a genuine and successful
thing, it would have been most important as affecting the history of the
world. Or if by chance the telephone or telegraph had been invented in
this period, these inventions would have been _important_ events.

Prizes will be awarded to those who make the best selection and who
mention the events in the best order of their importance. Answers may be
sent in any time before September 1st.

The Great Round World does not want you to hurry over this contest, but
to take plenty of time and do the work carefully. It will be a pleasant
occupation for the summer months.

We would advise you to take the magazines starting at No. 1, look them
over carefully, keep a note-book at your side, and jot down in it the
events that seem to you important; when you have finished them all, No.
1 to 30, look over your notes and select the ten events that seem to you
to be the most important, stating after each event your reason for
thinking it important.

For instance: suppose you decide that the death of Dr. Ruiz was one of
these important events, you might say, "The killing of Dr. Ruiz in the
prison of Guanabacoa--because it brought the cruelties practised on
American citizens to the attention of our Government," etc., etc.

In sending your answers put your number and the date only on them, for
the judges are not to know names and addresses of the contestants, that
there may be no favoritism shown.

It is important to put date on, for if two or more are found of similar
standing, the one first received will be given preference.

Address all letters to REVIEW PRIZE CONTEST DEPARTMENT,
GREAT ROUND WORLD, 3 and 5 West 18th Street, New York City.

          _Write answer on one side of the paper only_
     =Prizes will be selections from the premium catalogue=

         No. 1. Premiums as given for 15 Subscriptions
         No. 2.    "      "   "    "  12        "
         No. 3.    "      "   "    "  10        "
         No. 4.    "      "   "    "   9        "
         No. 5.    "      "   "    "   8        "
         No. 6.    "      "   "    "   7        "
         No. 7.    "      "   "    "   5        "
         No. 8.    "      "   "    "   5        "
         No. 9.    "      "   "    "   5        "
         No. 10.   "      "   "    "   5        "

       *       *       *       *       *

Do you Cover your Books?

    THE "ONE PIECE"
    ADJUSTABLE BOOK COVERS

are made of the strongest and best book-cover paper obtainable. This paper
is made in large quantities especially for these book covers and will
protect books perfectly. The book covers themselves are a marvel of
ingenuity, and, although they are in one piece and can be adjusted to fit
perfectly any sized book without cutting the paper, they are also so
simple that any boy or girl can use them; as they are already gummed they
are always ready for use.

A sample dozen will be mailed to any address for 20 cents (or ten two-cent
stamps) if you write

    WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON
    3 and 5 West 18th Street, New York City

       *       *       *       *       *


  A Good Agent
    Wanted
  In Every Town
              for
    "The Great Round World"


       *       *       *       *       *

=PREMIUM LIST=

