As a debater in the House of Commons, his speeches were logical and
argumentative: if they did not often abound in the graces of metaphor,
or sparkle with the brilliancy of wit, they were always animated,
elegant, and classical. The strength of his oratory was intrinsic; it
presented the rich and abundant resource of a clear discernment and a
correct taste. His speeches are stampt with inimitable marks of
originality. When replying to his opponents, his readiness was not more
conspicuous than his energy: he was always prompt and always dignified.
He could sometimes have recourse to the sportiveness of irony, but he
did not often seek any other aid than was to be derived from an arranged
and extensive knowledge of his subject. This qualified him fully to
discuss the arguments of others, and forcibly to defend his own. Thus
armed, it was rarely in the power of his adversaries, mighty as they
were, to beat him from the field. His eloquence, occasionally rapid,
electric, vehement, was always chaste, winning, and persuasive, not
awing into acquiescence, but arguing into conviction. His understanding
was bold and comprehensive: nothing seemed too remote for its reach, or
too large for its grasp. Unallured by dissipation, and unswayed by
pleasure, he never sacrificed the national treasure to the one, or the
national interest to the other. To his unswerving integrity the most
authentic of all testimony is to be found in that unbounded public
confidence which followed him throughout the whole of his political
career.

Absorbed as he was in the pursuits of public life, he did not neglect to
prepare himself in silence for that higher destination, which is at once
the incentive and reward of human virtue. His talents, superior and
splendid as they were, never made him forgetful of that eternal wisdom
from which they emanated. The faith and fortitude of his last moments
were affecting and exemplary. In his forty-seventh year, and in the
meridian of his fame, he died on the twenty-third of January, one
thousand eight hundred and six.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE LECTURER

       *       *       *       *       *


VERTIGO, OR GIDDINESS.


_Vertigo_, or _giddiness_, though unattended with pain, is, in general,
of a more dangerous nature than the severest headach. Vertigo consists
in a disturbance of the _voluntary power_, and in some degree of
_sensation_, especially of _vision_; and thus it shows itself to be an
affection of the brain itself; while mere pain in the head does not
necessarily imply this, it being for the most part an affection of the
membranes only. In _vertigo_, objects that are fixed appear to be in
motion, or to turn round, as the name implies. The patient loses his
balance, and is inclined to fall down. It often is followed immediately
by severe headach. _Vertigo_ is apt to recur, and thus often becomes
frequent and habitual. After a time the mental powers become impaired,
and complete idiocy often follows; as was the case in the celebrated
Dean Swift. It frequently terminates in apoplexy or palsy, from the
extension of disease in the brain.

_Causes.--Vertigo_ is induced by whatever is capable of disturbing
suddenly the circulation of the brain, whether in the way of increase or
diminution: thus the approach of _syncope_, whether produced by loss of
blood, or a feeling of nausea; blows on the head, occasioning a
concussion of the brain; stooping; swinging; whirling; or other unusual
motions of the body, as in sailing, are the ordinary exciting causes of
the disease. _Vertigo_ is exceedingly frequent at an advanced period of
life, and generally indicates the approach and formation of disease in
the brain. Accordingly, it is a frequent forerunner of _apoplexy_ and
_palsy_.

The immediate or _proximate_ cause of _giddiness_, or _vertigo_, that
is, the actual condition of the brain at the moment, is probably some
partial disturbance in the circulation there; which all the _occasional
causes_ mentioned are obviously calculated to produce. It is more or
less dangerous, according to the cause inducing it, and the state of the
brain itself, which may be sound or otherwise. And as this cannot be
certainly known, nor the extent of it when actually present, the event
is of course uncertain. At all times, your _prognosis_ should be
guarded; because _vertigo_ seldom occurs under favourable circumstances
of age and general health; unless when produced by so slight a cause as
_bloodletting_, or a trifling blow upon the head. Whenever _vertigo_
recurs frequently, and at an advanced period of life; and more
particularly when it is accompanied with drowsiness; weakness of the
voluntary muscles; impaired memory, or judgment; or, in short, any other
disturbance or imperfection in the state of the _sensorial_ functions;
an unfavourable result is to be expected; because all these afford
decisive evidence of a considerable degree and extent of disease in the
brain--_Dr. Clutterbuck's Lectures on the Nervous System_.


BATHING


In this season of the year, a few hints on the temperature of the body
prior to cold immersion, may not unaptly be furnished. It is commonly
supposed, that if a person have made himself warm with walking, or any
other exercise, he must wait till he becomes cooled before he should
plunge into the cold water. Dr. Currie, however, has shown that this is
an erroneous idea, and that in the earlier stages of exercise, before
profuse perspiration has dissipated the heat, and fatigue debilitated
the living power, nothing is more safe, according to his experience,
than the cold bath. This is so true, that the same author constantly
directed infirm persons to use such a degree of exercise before
emersion, as might produce increased action of the vascular system, with
some increase of heat; and thus secure a force of re-action under the
shock, which otherwise might not always take place. The popular opinion,
that it is safest to go perfectly cool into the water, is founded on
erroneous notions, and is sometimes productive of injurious
consequences. Thus, persons heated and beginning to perspire, often
think it necessary to wait on the edge of the bath until they are
perfectly cooled.

       *       *       *       *       *


USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS

       *       *       *       *       *


TAINTED MEAT


Meat tainted to an extreme degree may be speedily restored by washing it
in cold water, and afterwards in strong camomile tea; after which it may
be sprinkled with salt, and used the following day; or if steeped and
well washed in beer, it will make pure and sweet soup even after being
fly-blown.


TO BREW THREE BARRELS OF PORTER.


Take one quarter of high-dried malt, with one or two pecks of patent
malt; mash in the same manner as directed for beer. Add the following
ingredients: eight pounds of good hops, one pound of liquorice root, two
pounds of Spanish juice, half a pound of ground ginger, one pound of
salt, eight ounces of hartshorn shavings, and four ounces of porter
extract.

Separate the hops, and run the wort on them; when placed in the copper,
and in a state of ebullition, infuse the whole of the other ingredients.
Let it boil about one hour, or till you discover the surface of the
liquor to become flaky, and the wort broken; then take it from the
copper and strain it into the coolers. Now proceed in the usual way till
it be fit to rack, which will be in about a fortnight; draw it off into
another vat, in which let it remain three hours to settle, and in the
mean time wash the cask quite clean; draw from the vat the contents, and
return them to the cask, leaving the sediment that has lodged during the
three hours. If the colour be not full enough, add, when racking, some
brandy colouring, which soon gives to it that pleasing appearance
peculiar to good porter. Do not fill the cask quite full; bung it close
the following day, but leave the peg-hole open for a few days, or a
week, according to the state of the atmosphere; peg it when you think it
is fine; and if it appear to be fast approaching to clearness, and has
stood long enough for the attainment of maturity, tap it, and draw it
quickly; for porter, in cask, always requires a quick draught, and when
it gets flat bottle it off as soon as possible.

It will improve greatly by standing a few months in the bottle.--_The
Vintner's Guide_.


WELSH ALE.


Pour forty-two gallons of water, hot, but not quite boiling, on eight
bushels of malt; cover, and let it stand three hours. In the mean time
infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water; and put the water and
hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together
three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the
wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which
put two quarts of ale, or, if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast.
Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working, the second
or third day the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle; remove
it then, and turn the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time,
and gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which
weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three
days before stopping up.--_Ibid_.


MILK PUNCH.


Pare six oranges and six lemons, as thin as you can; grate them after
with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or
brandy, stopped close, twenty-four hours; squeeze the fruit on two
pounds of sugar; add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk,
boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag
till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately.--_Ibid_.


EXCELLENT LEMONADE.


To the rinds of ten lemons, pared very thin, put one pound of fine
loaf-sugar, and two quarts of spring-water, boiling hot; stir it to
dissolve the sugar; let it stand twenty-four hours, covered close; then
squeeze in the juice of the ten lemons; add one pint of white wine; boil
a pint of new milk, pour it hot on the ingredients; when cold, run it
through a close filtering-bag, when it will be fit for immediate
use.--_Ibid_.

       *       *       *       *       *


ARTS AND SCIENCES.

       *       *       *       *       *


ATTRACTION.


Logs of wood floating in a pond approach each other, and afterwards
remain in contact. The wreck of a ship, in a smooth sea after a storm,
is often seen gathered into heaps. Two bullets or plummets, suspended by
strings near to each other, are found by the delicate test of the
torison balance to attract each other, and therefore not to hang quite
perpendicularly. A plummet suspended near the side of a mountain,
inclines towards it in a degree proportioned to its magnitude; as was
ascertained by the wellknown trials of Dr. Maskeleyne near the mountain
Skehalion, in Scotland. And the reason why the plummet tends much more
strongly towards the earth than towards the hill, is only that the earth
is larger than the hill. And at New South Wales, which is a point on our
globe nearly opposite to England, plummets hang and fall towards the
centre of the globe, exactly as they do here, so that they are hanging
up and falling towards England, and the people there are standing with
their feet towards us. Weight, therefore, is merely general attraction
acting every where. It is owing to this general attraction that our
earth is a globe. All its parts being drawn towards each other, that is,
towards the common centre, the mass assumes the spherical or rounded
form. And the moon also is round, and all the planets are round; the
glorious sun, so much larger than all these, is round; proving, that all
must at one time have been fluid, and that they are all subject to the
same law. Other instances of roundness from this cause are--the
particles of a mist or fog floating in air; these mutually attracting
and coalescing into larger drops, and forming rain; dew drops; water
trickling on a duck's wing; the tear-dropping from the cheek; drops of
laudanum; globules of mercury, like pure silver beads, coalescing when
near, and forming larger ones; melted lead allowed to rain down from an
elevated sieve, which cools as it descends, so as to retain the form of
its liquid drops, and become the spherical shot lead of the sportsman.
The cause of the extraordinary phenomenon, which we call attraction,
acts at all distances. The moon, though 240,000 miles from the earth, by
her attraction raises the water of the ocean under her, and forms what
we call the tide. The sun, still farther off, has a similar influence;
and when the sun and moon act in the same direction, we have the spring
tides. The planets, those apparently little wandering points in the
heaven, yet affect, by their attraction, the motion of our earth in her
orbit, quickening it when she is approaching them, retarding it when she
is receding.--_Arnott's Natural Philosophy._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER

    "I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--_Wotton_.

       *       *       *       *       *


CITY FEASTING.

The following is the bill of fare for the Court of Assistants of the
Worshipful the Company of Wax Chandlers, London, 1478:--Two loins of
veal, and two loins of mutton, 1s. 4d.; one loin of beef, 4d.; one dozen
of pigeons and one dozen of rabbits, 9d.; one pig and one capon, 1s.;
one goose and a hundred eggs, 1s. 1/2d.; one leg of mutton, 2-1/2d.; two
gallons of sack, 1s. 4d.; eight gallons of strong ale, 1s. 6d.--7s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fathers of the church considered the earth as a great ship,
surrounded by water, with the prow to the east and the stern to the
west. We still find in Cosmas, a monk of the fourteenth century, a sort
of geographical chart, in which, the earth has this figure. Even among
the ancients, though many of their geometricians had acknowledged the
sphericity of the globe, it was for a long time imagined that the earth
was a third longer than it was broad, and thence arose the terms of
_longitude_ and _latitude_. St. Athanasius expresses himself most warmly
against astronomers. "Let us stop the mouths of these barbarians," he
exclaims, "who, speaking without proof, dare assert that the heavens
also extend under the earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

Augustus gave an admirable example how a person who sends a challenge
should be treated. When Marc Antony, after the battle of Actium, defied
him to single combat, his answer to the messenger who brought it was,
"Tell Marc Antony, if he be weary of life, there are other ways to end
it; I shall not take the trouble of becoming his executioner."

       *       *       *       *       *

An Irish gentleman, whose lady had absconded from him, cautioned the
public against trusting her in these words:--"My wife has eloped from me
without rhyme or reason, and I desire no one will trust her on my
account, for I am not married to her."

       *       *       *       *       *

