Produced by Charles Franks, Delphine Lettau, Mark Sherwood
and the people at Distributed Proofreading


THE THREE CLERKS

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE


WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY W. TEIGNMOUTH SHORE


ANTHONY TROLLOPE

Born London, April 24, 1815
Died London, December 6, 1882


INTRODUCTION

There is the proper mood and the just environment for the reading
as well as for the writing of works of fiction, and there can be
no better place for the enjoying of a novel by Anthony Trollope
than under a tree in Kensington Gardens of a summer day. Under a
tree in the avenue that reaches down from the Round Pond to the
Long Water. There, perhaps more than anywhere else, lingers the
early Victorian atmosphere. As we sit beneath our tree, we see in
the distance the dun, red-brick walls of Kensington Palace, where
one night Princess Victoria was awakened to hear that she was
Queen; there in quaint, hideously ugly Victorian rooms are to be
seen Victorian dolls and other playthings; the whole environment
is early Victorian. Here to the mind's eye how easy it is to
conjure up ghosts of men in baggy trousers and long flowing
whiskers, of prim women in crinolines, in hats with long trailing
feathers and with ridiculous little parasols, or with Grecian-
bends and chignons--church-parading to and fro beneath the trees
or by the water's edge--perchance, even the fascinating Lady
Crinoline and the elegant Mr. Macassar Jones, whose history has
been written by Clerk Charley in the pages we are introducing to
the 'gentle reader'. As a poetaster of an earlier date has
written:--

  Where Kensington high o'er the neighbouring lands
  'Midst green and sweets, a royal fabric, stands,
  And sees each spring, luxuriant in her bowers,
  A snow of blossoms, and a wild of flowers,
  The dames of Britain oft in crowds repair
  To gravel walks, and unpolluted air.
  Here, while the town in damps and darkness lies,
  They breathe in sunshine, and see azure skies;
  Each walk, with robes of various dyes bespread,
  Seems from afar a moving tulip bed,
  Where rich brocades and glossy damasks glow,
  And chintz, the rival of the showery bow.

Indeed, the historian of social manners, when dealing with the
Victorian period, will perforce have recourse to the early
volumes of Punch and to the novels of Thackeray, Dickens, and
Trollope.

There are certain authors of whom personally we know little, but
of whose works we cannot ever know enough, such a one for example
as Shakespeare; others of whose lives we know much, but for whose
works we can have but scant affection: such is Doctor Johnson;
others who are intimate friends in all their aspects, as
Goldsmith and Charles Lamb; yet others, who do not quite come
home to our bosoms, whose writings we cannot entirely approve,
but for whom and for whose works we find a soft place somewhere
in our hearts, and such a one is Anthony Trollope. His novels are
not for every-day reading, any more than are those of Marryat and
Borrow--to take two curious examples. There are times and moods
and places in which it would be quite impossible to read _The
Three Clerks_; others in which this story is almost wholly
delightful. With those who are fond of bed-reading Trollope
should ever be a favourite, and it is no small compliment to say
this, for small is the noble army of authors who have given us
books which can enchant in the witching hour between waking and
slumber. It is probable that all lovers of letters have their
favourite bed-books. Thackeray has charmingly told us of his. Of
the few novels that can really be enjoyed when the reader is
settling down for slumber almost all have been set forth by
writers who--consciously or unconsciously--have placed character
before plot; Thackeray himself, Miss Austen, Borrow, Marryat,
Sterne, Dickens, Goldsmith and--Trollope.

Books are very human in their way, as what else should they be,
children of men and women as they are? Just as with human friends
so with book friends, first impressions are often misleading;
good literary coin sometimes seems to ring untrue, but the
untruth is in the ear of the reader, not of the writer. For
instance, Trollope has many odd and irritating tricks which are
apt to scare off those who lack perseverance and who fail to
understand that there must be something admirable in that which
was once much admired by the judicious. He shares with Thackeray
the sinful habit of pulling up his readers with a wrench by
reminding them that what is set before them is after all mere
fiction and that the characters in whose fates they are becoming
interested are only marionettes. With Dickens and others he
shares the custom, so irritating to us of to-day, of ticketing
his personages with clumsy, descriptive labels, such as, in
_The Three Clerks_, Mr. Chaffanbrass, Sir Gregory Hardlines,
Sir Warwick West End, Mr. Neverbend, Mr. Whip Vigil, Mr. Nogo and
Mr. Gitemthruet. He must plead guilty, also, to some bad ways
peculiarly his own, or which he made so by the thoroughness with
which he indulged in them. He moralizes in his own person in
deplorable manner: is not this terrible:--'Poor Katie!--dear,
darling, bonnie Katie!--sweet, sweetest, dearest child! why, oh,
why, has that mother of thine, that tender-hearted loving mother,
put thee unguarded in the way of such perils as this? Has she not
sworn to herself that over thee at least she would watch as a hen
over her young, so that no unfortunate love should quench thy
young spirit, or blanch thy cheek's bloom?' Is this not
sufficient to make the gentlest reader swear to himself?

Fortunately this and some other appalling passages occur after
the story is in full swing and after the three Clerks and those
with whom they come into contact have proved themselves
thoroughly interesting companions. Despite all his old-fashioned
tricks Trollope does undoubtedly succeed in giving blood and life
to most of his characters; they are not as a rule people of any
great eccentricity or of profound emotions; but ordinary, every-
day folk, such as all of us have met, and loved or endured.
Trollope fills very adequately a space between Thackeray and
Dickens, of whom the former deals for the most part with the
upper 'ten', the latter with the lower 'ten'; Trollope with the
suburban and country-town 'ten'; the three together giving us a
very complete and detailed picture of the lives led by our
grandmothers and grandfathers, whose hearts were in the same
place as our own, but whose manners of speech, of behaviour and
of dress have now entered into the vague region known as the
'days of yore'.

_The Three Clerks_ is an excellent example of Trollope's
handiwork. The development of the plot is sufficiently skilful to
maintain the reader's interest, and the major part of the
characters is lifelike, always well observed and sometimes
depicted with singular skill and insight. Trollope himself liked
the work well:--

'The plot is not so good as that of _The Macdermots_; nor
are any characters in the book equal to those of Mrs. Proudie and
the Warden; but the work has a more continued interest, and
contains the first well-described love-scene that I ever wrote.
The passage in which Kate Woodward, thinking she will die, tries
to take leave of the lad she loves, still brings tears to my eyes
when I read it. I had not the heart to kill her. I never could do
that. And I do not doubt that they are living happily together to
this day.

'The lawyer Chaffanbrass made his first appearance in this novel,
and I do not think that I have cause to be ashamed of him. But
this novel now is chiefly noticeable to me from the fact that in
it I introduced a character under the name of Sir Gregory
Hardlines, by which I intended to lean very heavily on that much
loathed scheme of competitive examination, of which at that time
Sir Charles Trevelyan was the great apostle. Sir Gregory
Hardlines was intended for Sir Charles Trevelyan--as any one at
the time would know who had taken an interest in the Civil
Service. 'We always call him Sir Gregory,' Lady Trevelyan said to
me afterwards when I came to know her husband. I never learned to
love competitive examination; but I became, and am, very fond of
Sir Charles Trevelyan. Sir Stafford Northcote, who is now
Chancellor of the Exchequer, was then leagued with his friend Sir
Charles, and he too appears in _The Three Clerks_ under the
feebly facetious name of Sir Warwick West End. But for all that
_The Three Clerks_ was a good novel.'

Which excerpt from Trollope's _Autobiography_ serves to
throw light not only upon the novel in question, but also upon
the character of its author.

Trollope served honestly and efficiently for many a long year in
the Post Office, achieving his entrance through a farce of an
examination:--

'The story of that examination', he says, 'is given accurately in
the opening chapters of a novel written by me, called _The
Three Clerks_. If any reader of this memoir would refer to
that chapter and see how Charley Tudor was supposed to have been
admitted into the Internal Navigation Office, that reader will
learn how Anthony Trollope was actually admitted into the
Secretary's office of the General Post Office in 1834.'

Poe's description of the manner in which he wrote _The
Raven_ is incredible, being probably one of his solemn and
sombre jokes; equally incredible is Trollope's confession of his
humdrum, mechanical methods of work. Doubtless he believed he was
telling the whole truth, but only here and there in his
_Autobiography_ does he permit to peep out touches of light,
which complete the portrait of himself. It is impossible that for
the reader any character in fiction should live which has not
been alive to its creator; so is it with Trollope, who, speaking
of his characters, says,

'I have wandered alone among the rooks and woods, crying at their
grief, laughing at their absurdities, and thoroughly enjoying
their joy. I have been impregnated with my own creations till it
has been my only excitement to sit with the pen in my hand, and
drive my team before me at as quick a pace as I could make them
travel.'

There is a plain matter-of-factness about Trollope's narratives
which is convincing, making it difficult for the reader to call
himself back to fact and to remember that he has been wandering
in a world of fiction. In _The Three Clerks_, the young men
who give the tale its title are all well drawn. To accomplish
this in the cases of Alaric and Charley Tudor was easy enough for
a skilled writer, but to breathe life into Harry Norman was
difficult. At first he appears to be a lay-figure, a priggish
dummy of an immaculate hero, a failure in portraiture; but toward
the end of the book it is borne in on us that our dislike had
been aroused by the lifelike nature of the painting, dislike
toward a real man, priggish indeed in many ways, but with a very
human strain of obstinacy and obdurateness, which few writers
would have permitted to have entered into the make-up of any of
their heroes. Of the other men, Undy Scott may be named as among
the very best pieces of portraiture in Victorian fiction; touch
after touch of detail is added to the picture with really
admirable skill, and Undy lives in the reader's memory as vividly
as he must have existed in the imagination of his creator. There
are some strong and curious passages in Chapter XLIV, in which
the novelist contrasts the lives and fates of Varney, Bill Sykes
and Undy Scott; they stir the blood, proving uncontestibly that
Undy Scott was as real to Trollope as he is to us: 'The figure of
Undy swinging from a gibbet at the broad end of Lombard Street
would have an effect. Ah, my fingers itch to be at the rope.'

Trollope possessed the rare and beautiful gift of painting the
hearts and souls of young girls, and of this power he has given
an admirable example in Katie Woodward. It would be foolish and
cruel to attempt to epitomize, or rather to draw in miniature,
this portrait that Trollope has drawn at full length; were it not
for any other end, those that are fond of all that is graceful
and charming in young womanhood should read _The Three Clerks_,
so becoming the friend, nay, the lover of Katie. Her sisters are not
so attractive, simply because nature did not make them so; a very
fine, faithful woman, Gertrude; a dear thing, Linda. All three worthy
of their mother, she who, as we are told in a delicious phrase,
'though adverse to a fool' 'could sympathize with folly '.

These eight portraits are grouped in the foreground of this
'conversation' piece, the background being filled with slighter
but always live figures.

Particularly striking, as being somewhat unusual with Trollope,
is the depiction of the public-house, 'The Pig and Whistle', in
Norfolk Street, the landlady, Mrs. Davis, and the barmaid, Norah
Geraghty. We can almost smell the gin, the effluvia of stale
beer, the bad tobacco, hear the simpers and see the sidlings of
Norah, feel sick with and at Charley:--he 'got up and took her
hand; and as he did so, he saw that her nails were dirty. He put
his arms round her waist and kissed her; and as he caressed her,
his olfactory nerves perceived that the pomatum in her hair was
none of the best ... and then he felt very sick'. But, oh, why
'olfactory nerves'? Was it vulgar in early Victorian days to call
a nose a nose?

How far different would have been Dickens's treatment of such
characters and such a scene; out of Mrs. Davis and Norah he would
have extracted fun, and it would never have entered into his mind
to have brought such a man as Charley into contact with them in a
manner that must hurt that young hero's susceptibilities.
Thackeray would have followed a third way, judging by his
treatment of the Fotheringay and Captain Costigan, partly
humorous, partly satirical, partly serious.

Trollope was not endowed with any spark of wit, his satire tends
towards the obvious, and his humour is mild, almost unconscious,
as if he could depict for us what of the humorous came under his
observation without himself seeing the fun in it. Where he sets
forth with intent to be humorous he sometimes attains almost to
the tragic; there are few things so sad as a joke that misses
fire or a jester without sense of humour.

Of the genius of a writer of fiction there is scarce any other
test so sure as this of the reality of his characters. Few are
the authors that have created for us figures of fiction that are
more alive to us than the historic shadows of the past, whose
dead bones historians do not seem to be able to clothe with flesh
and blood. Trollope hovers on the border line between genius and
great talent, or rather it would be more fair to say that with
regard to him opinions may justly differ. For our own part we
hold that his was not talent streaked with genius, but rather a
jog-trot genius alloyed with mediocrity. He lacked the supreme
unconsciousness of supreme genius, for of genius as of talent
there are degrees. There are characters in _The Three Clerks_
that live; those who have read the tale must now and again when
passing Norfolk Street, Strand, regret that it would be waste of
time to turn down that rebuilt thoroughfare in search of 'The Pig
and Whistle', which was 'one of these small tranquil shrines of
Bacchus in which the god is worshipped with as constant a
devotion, though with less noisy demonstration of zeal than in
his larger and more public temples'. Alas; lovers of Victorian London
must lament that such shrines grow fewer day by day; the great
thoroughfares know them no more; they hide nervously in old-world
corners, and in them you will meet old-world characters, who not
seldom seem to have lost themselves on their way to the pages
of Charles Dickens.

Despite the advent of electric tramways, Hampton would still be
recognized by the three clerks, 'the little village of Hampton,
with its old-fashioned country inn, and its bright, quiet, grassy
river.' Hampton is now as it then was, the 'well-loved resort of
cockneydom'.

So let us alight from the tramcar at Hampton, and look about on
the outskirts of the village for 'a small old-fashioned brick
house, abutting on the road, but looking from its front windows
on to a lawn and garden, which stretched down to the river'.
Surbiton Cottage it is called. Let us peep in at that merry,
happy family party; and laugh at Captain Cuttwater, waking from
his placid sleep, rubbing his eyes in wonderment, and asking,
'What the devil is all the row about?' But it is only with our
mind's eye that we can see Surbiton Cottage--a cottage in the air
it is, but more substantial to some of us than many a real jerry-
built villa of red brick and stucco.

Old-fashioned seem to us the folk who once dwelt there, old-
fashioned in all save that their hearts were true and their
outlook on life sane and clean; they live still, though their
clothes be of a quaint fashion and their talk be of yesterday.

Who knows but that they will live long after we who love them
shall be dead and turned to dust?

W. TEIGNMOUTH SHORE.


CONTENTS

I.       THE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
II.      THE INTERNAL NAVIGATION
III.     THE WOODWARDS
IV.      CAPTAIN CUTTWATER
V.       BUSHEY PARK
VI.      SIR GREGORY HARDLINES
VII.     MR. FIDUS NEVERBEND
VIII.    THE HON. UNDECIMUS SCOTT
IX.      MR. MANYLODES
X.       WHEAL MARY JANE
XI.      THE THREE KINGS
XII.     CONSOLATION
XIII.    A COMMUNICATION OF IMPORTANCE
XIV.     VERY SAD
XV.      NORMAN RETURNS TO TOWN
XVI.     THE FIRST WEDDING
XVII.    THE HONOURABLE MRS. VAL AND MISS GOLIGHTLY
XVIII.   A DAY WITH ONE OF THE NAVVIES.--MORNING
XIX.     A DAY WITH ONE OF THE NAVVIES.--AFTERNOON
XX.      A DAY WITH ONE OF THE NAVVIES.--EVENING
XXI.     HAMPTON COURT BRIDGE
XXII.    CRINOLINE AND MACASSAR; OR, MY AUNT'S WILL
XXIII.   SURBITON COLLOQUIES
XXIV.    MR. M'BUFFER ACCEPTS THE CHILTERN HUNDREDS
XXV.     CHISWICK GARDENS
XXVI.    KATIE'S FIRST BALL
XXVII.   EXCELSIOR
XXVIII.  OUTERMAN _v_. TUDOR
XXIX.    EASY IS THE SLOPE OF HELL
XXX.     MRS. WOODWARD'S REQUEST
XXXI.    HOW APOLLO SAVED THE NAVVY
XXXII.   THE PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE
XXXIII.  TO STAND, OR NOT TO STAND
XXXIV.   WESTMINSTER HALL
XXXV.    MRS. VAL'S NEW CARRIAGE
XXXVI.   TICKLISH STOCK
XXXVII.  TRIBULATION
XXXVIII. ALARIC TUDOR TAKES A WALK
XXXIX.   THE LAST BREAKFAST
XL.      MR. CHAFFANBRASS
XLI.     THE OLD BAILEY
XLII.    A PARTING INTERVIEW
XLIII.   MILLBANK
XLIV.    THE CRIMINAL POPULATION IS DISPOSED OF
XLV.     THE FATE OF THE NAVVIES
XLVI.    MR. NOGO'S LAST QUESTION
XLVII.   CONCLUSION


CHAPTER I

THE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES


All the English world knows, or knows of, that branch of the
Civil Service which is popularly called the Weights and Measures.
Every inhabitant of London, and every casual visitor there, has
admired the handsome edifice which generally goes by that name,
and which stands so conspicuously confronting the Treasury
Chambers. It must be owned that we have but a slip-slop way of
christening our public buildings. When a man tells us that he
called on a friend at the Horse Guards, or looked in at the Navy
Pay, or dropped a ticket at the Woods and Forests, we put up with
the accustomed sounds, though they are in themselves, perhaps,
indefensible. The 'Board of Commissioners for Regulating Weights
and Measures', and the 'Office of the Board of Commissioners for
Regulating Weights and Measures', are very long phrases; and as,
in the course of this tale, frequent mention will be made of the
public establishment in question, the reader's comfort will be
best consulted by maintaining its popular though improper
denomination.

It is generally admitted that the Weights and Measures is a well-
conducted public office; indeed, to such a degree of efficiency
has it been brought by its present very excellent secretary, the
two very worthy assistant-secretaries, and especially by its late
most respectable chief clerk, that it may be said to stand quite
alone as a high model for all other public offices whatever. It
is exactly antipodistic of the Circumlocution Office, and as such
is always referred to in the House of Commons by the gentleman
representing the Government when any attack on the Civil Service,
generally, is being made.

And when it is remembered how great are the interests entrusted
to the care of this board, and of these secretaries and of that
chief clerk, it must be admitted that nothing short of superlative
excellence ought to suffice the nation. All material intercourse
between man and man must be regulated, either justly or
unjustly, by weights and measures; and as we of all people
depend most on such material intercourse, our weights and
measures should to us be a source of never-ending concern. And
then that question of the decimal coinage! is it not in these
days of paramount importance? Are we not disgraced by the twelve
pennies in our shilling, by the four farthings in our penny? One
of the worthy assistant-secretaries, the worthier probably of the
two, has already grown pale beneath the weight of this question.
But he has sworn within himself, with all the heroism of a
Nelson, that he will either do or die. He will destroy the
shilling or the shilling shall destroy him. In his more ardent
moods he thinks that he hears the noise of battle booming round
him, and talks to his wife of Westminster Abbey or a peerage.
Then what statistical work of the present age has shown half the
erudition contained in that essay lately published by the
secretary on _The Market Price of Coined Metals_? What other
living man could have compiled that chronological table which is
appended to it, showing the comparative value of the metallic
currency for the last three hundred years? Compile it indeed!
What other secretary or assistant-secretary belonging to any
public office of the present day, could even read it and live? It
completely silenced Mr. Muntz for a session, and even _The
Times_ was afraid to review it.

Such a state of official excellence has not, however, been
obtained without its drawbacks, at any rate in the eyes of the
unambitious tyros and unfledged novitiates of the establishment.
It is a very fine thing to be pointed out by envying fathers as a
promising clerk in the Weights and Measures, and to receive civil
speeches from mammas with marriageable daughters. But a clerk in
the Weights and Measures is soon made to understand that it is
not for him to--

  Sport with Amaryllis in the shade.

It behoves him that his life should be grave and his pursuits
laborious, if he intends to live up to the tone of those around
him. And as, sitting there at his early desk, his eyes already
dim with figures, he sees a jaunty dandy saunter round the
opposite corner to the Council Office at eleven o'clock, he
cannot but yearn after the pleasures of idleness.

  Were it not better done, as others use?

he says or sighs. But then comes Phoebus in the guise of the
chief clerk, and touches his trembling ears--

  As he pronounces lastly on each deed,
  Of so much fame, in Downing Street--expect the meed.

And so the high tone of the office is maintained.

Such is the character of the Weights and Measures at this present
period of which we are now treating. The exoteric crowd of the
Civil Service, that is, the great body of clerks attached to
other offices, regard their brethren of the Weights as prigs and
pedants, and look on them much as a master's favourite is apt to
be regarded by other boys at school. But this judgement is an
unfair one. Prigs and pedants, and hypocrites too, there are
among them, no doubt--but there are also among them many stirred
by an honourable ambition to do well for their country and
themselves, and to two such men the reader is now requested to
permit himself to be introduced.

Henry Norman, the senior of the two, is the second son of a
gentleman of small property in the north of England. He was
educated at a public school, and thence sent to Oxford; but
before he had finished his first year at Brasenose his father was
obliged to withdraw him from it, finding himself unable to bear
the expense of a university education for his two sons. His elder
son at Cambridge was extravagant; and as, at the critical moment
when decision became necessary, a nomination in the Weights and
Measures was placed at his disposal, old Mr. Norman committed the
not uncommon injustice of preferring the interests of his elder
but faulty son to those of the younger with whom no fault had
been found, and deprived his child of the chance of combining the
glories and happiness of a double first, a fellow, a college
tutor, and a don.

Whether Harry Norman gained or lost most by the change we need
not now consider, but at the age of nineteen he left Oxford and
entered on his new duties. It must not, however, be supposed that
this was a step which he took without difficulty and without
pause. It is true that the grand modern scheme for competitive
examinations had not as yet been composed. Had this been done,
and had it been carried out, how awful must have been the
cramming necessary to get a lad into the Weights and Measures!
But, even as things were then, it was no easy matter for a young
man to convince the chief clerk that he had all the acquirements
necessary for the high position to which he aspired.

Indeed, that chief clerk was insatiable, and generally succeeded
in making every candidate conceive the very lowest opinion of
himself and his own capacities before the examination was over.
Some, of course, were sent away at once with ignominy, as
evidently incapable. Many retired in the middle of it with a
conviction that they must seek their fortunes at the bar, or in
medical pursuits, or some other comparatively easy walk of life.
Others were rejected on the fifth or sixth day as being deficient
in conic sections, or ignorant of the exact principles of
hydraulic pressure. And even those who were retained were so
retained, as it were, by an act of grace. The Weights and
Measures was, and indeed is, like heaven--no man can deserve it.
No candidate can claim as his right to be admitted to the
fruition of the appointment which has been given to him. Henry
Norman, however, was found, at the close of his examination, to
be the least undeserving of the young men then under notice, and
was duly installed in his clerkship.

It need hardly be explained, that to secure so high a level of
information as that required at the Weights and Measures, a scale
of salaries equally exalted has been found necessary. Young men
consequently enter at £100 a year. We are speaking, of course, of
that more respectable branch of the establishment called the
Secretary's Department. At none other of our public offices do
men commence with more than £90--except, of course, at those in
which political confidence is required. Political confidence is
indeed as expensive as hydraulic pressure, though generally found
to be less difficult of attainment.

Henry Norman, therefore, entered on his labours under good
auspices, having £10 per annum more for the business and
pleasures of life in London than most of his young brethren of
the Civil Service. Whether this would have sufficed of itself to
enable him to live up to that tone of society to which he had
been accustomed cannot now be surmised, as very shortly after his
appointment an aunt died, from whom he inherited some £150 or
£200 a year. He was, therefore, placed above all want, and soon
became a shining light even in that bright gallery of spiritualized
stars which formed the corps of clerks in the Secretary's Office
at the Weights and Measures.

Young Norman was a good-looking lad when he entered the public
service, and in a few years he grew up to be a handsome man. He
was tall and thin and dark, muscular in his proportions, and
athletic in his habits. From the date of his first enjoyment of
his aunt's legacy he had a wherry on the Thames, and was soon
known as a man whom it was hard for an amateur to beat. He had a
racket in a racket-court at St. John's Wood Road, and as soon as
fortune and merit increased his salary by another £100 a year, he
usually had a nag for the season. This, however, was not attained
till he was able to count five years' service in the Weights and
Measures. He was, as a boy, somewhat shy and reserved in his
manners, and as he became older he did not shake off the fault.
He showed it, however, rather among men than with women, and,
indeed, in spite of his love of exercise, he preferred the
society of ladies to any of the bachelor gaieties of his
unmarried acquaintance. He was, nevertheless, frank and confident
in those he trusted, and true in his friendships, though,
considering his age, too slow in making a friend. Such was Henry
Norman at the time at which our tale begins. What were the faults
in his character it must be the business of the tale to show.

The other young clerk in this office to whom we alluded is Alaric
Tudor. He is a year older than Henry Norman, though he began his
official career a year later, and therefore at the age of twenty-
one. How it happened that he contrived to pass the scrutinizing
instinct and deep powers of examination possessed by the chief
clerk, was a great wonder to his friends, though apparently none
at all to himself. He took the whole proceeding very easily;
while another youth alongside of him, who for a year had been
reading up for his promised nomination, was so awe-struck by the
severity of the proceedings as to lose his powers of memory and
forget the very essence of the differential calculus.

Of hydraulic pressure and the differential calculus young Tudor
knew nothing, and pretended to know nothing. He told the chief
clerk that he was utterly ignorant of all such matters, that his
only acquirements were a tolerably correct knowledge of English,
French, and German, with a smattering of Latin and Greek, and
such an intimacy with the ordinary rules of arithmetic and with
the first books of Euclid, as he had been able to pick up while
acting as a tutor, rather than a scholar, in a small German
university.

The chief clerk raised his eyebrows and said he feared it would
not do. A clerk, however, was wanting. It was very clear that the
young gentleman who had only showed that he had forgotten his
conic sections could not be supposed to have passed. The
austerity of the last few years had deterred more young men from
coming forward than the extra £10 had induced to do so. One
unfortunate, on the failure of all his hopes, had thrown himself
into the Thames from the neighbouring boat-stairs; and though he
had been hooked out uninjured by the man who always attends there
with two wooden legs, the effect on his parents' minds had been
distressing. Shortly after this occurrence the chief clerk had
been invited to attend the Board, and the Chairman of the
Commissioners, who, on the occasion, was of course prompted by
the Secretary, recommended Mr. Hardlines to be a _leetle_
more lenient. In doing so the quantity of butter which he poured
over Mr. Hardlines' head and shoulders with the view of
alleviating the misery which such a communication would be sure
to inflict, was very great. But, nevertheless, Mr. Hardlines came
out from the Board a crestfallen and unhappy man. 'The service,'
he said, 'would go to the dogs, and might do for anything he
cared, and he did not mind how soon. If the Board chose to make
the Weights and Measures a hospital for idiots, it might do so.
He had done what little lay in his power to make the office
respectable; and now, because mammas complained when their cubs
of sons were not allowed to come in there and rob the public and
destroy the office books, he was to be thwarted and reprimanded!
He had been,' he said, 'eight-and-twenty years in office, and was
still in his prime--but he should,' he thought, 'take advantage
of the advice of his medical friends, and retire. He would never
remain there to see the Weights and Measures become a hospital
for incurables!'

It was thus that Mr. Hardlines, the chief clerk, expressed
himself. He did not, however, send in a medical certificate, nor
apply for a pension; and the first apparent effect of the little
lecture which he had received from the Chairman, was the
admission into the service of Alaric Tudor. Mr. Hardlines was
soon forced to admit that the appointment was not a bad one, as
before his second year was over, young Tudor had produced a very
smart paper on the merits--or demerits--of the strike bushel.

Alaric Tudor when he entered the office was by no means so
handsome a youth as Harry Norman; but yet there was that in his
face which was more expressive, and perhaps more attractive. He
was a much slighter man, though equally tall. He could boast no
adventitious capillary graces, whereas young Norman had a pair of
black curling whiskers, which almost surrounded his face, and had
been the delight and wonder of the maidservants in his mother's
house, when he returned home for his first official holiday.
Tudor wore no whiskers, and his light-brown hair was usually cut
so short as to give him something of the appearance of a clean
Puritan. But in manners he was no Puritan; nor yet in his mode of
life. He was fond of society, and at an early period of his age
strove hard to shine in it. He was ambitious; and lived with the
steady aim of making the most of such advantages as fate and
fortune had put in his way. Tudor was perhaps not superior to
Norman in point of intellect; but he was infinitely his superior
in having early acquired a knowledge how best to use such
intellect as he had.

His education had been very miscellaneous, and disturbed by many
causes, but yet not ineffective or deficient. His father had been
an officer in a cavalry regiment, with a fair fortune, which he
had nearly squandered in early life. He had taken Alaric when
little more than an infant, and a daughter, his only other child,
to reside in Brussels. Mrs. Tudor was then dead, and the
remainder of the household had consisted of a French governess, a
_bonne_, and a man-cook. Here Alaric remained till he had
perfectly acquired the French pronunciation, and very nearly as
perfectly forgotten the English. He was then sent to a private
school in England, where he remained till he was sixteen,
returning home to Brussels but once during those years, when he
was invited to be present at his sister's marriage with a Belgian
banker. At the age of sixteen he lost his father, who, on dying,
did not leave behind him enough of the world's wealth to pay for
his own burial. His half-pay of course died with him, and young
Tudor was literally destitute.

His brother-in-law, the banker, paid for his half-year's
schooling in England, and then removed him to a German academy,
at which it was bargained that he should teach English without
remuneration, and learn German without expense. Whether he taught
much English may be doubtful, but he did learn German thoroughly;
and in that, as in most other transactions of his early life,
certainly got the best of the bargain which had been made for
him.

At the age of twenty he was taken to the Brussels bank as a
clerk; but here he soon gave visible signs of disliking the
drudgery which was exacted from him. Not that he disliked
banking. He would gladly have been a partner with ever so small a
share, and would have trusted to himself to increase his stake.
But there is a limit to the good nature of brothers-in-law, even
in Belgium; and Alaric was quite aware that no such good luck as
this could befall him, at any rate until he had gone through many
years of servile labour. His sister also, though sisterly enough
in her disposition to him, did not quite like having a brother
employed as a clerk in her husband's office. They therefore put
their heads together, and, as the Tudors had good family
connexions in England, a nomination in the Weights and Measures
was procured.

The nomination was procured; but when it was ascertained how very
short a way this went towards the attainment of the desired
object, and how much more difficult it was to obtain Mr.
Hardlines' approval than the Board's favour, young Tudor's
friends despaired, and recommended him to abandon the idea, as,
should he throw himself into the Thames, he might perhaps fall
beyond the reach of the waterman's hook. Alaric himself, however,
had no such fears. He could not bring himself to conceive that he
could fail in being fit for a clerkship in a public office, and
the result of his examination proved at any rate that he had been
right to try.

The close of his first year's life in London found him living in
lodgings with Henry Norman. At that time Norman's income was
nearly three times as good as his own. To say that Tudor selected
his companion because of his income would be to ascribe unjustly
to him vile motives and a mean instinct. He had not done so. The
two young men had been thrown, together by circumstances. They
worked at the same desk, liked each other's society, and each
being alone in the world, thereby not unnaturally came together.
But it may probably be said that had Norman been as poor as
Tudor, Tudor might probably have shrunk from rowing in the same
boat with him.

As it was they lived together and were fast allies; not the less
so that they did not agree as to many of their avocations. Tudor,
at his friend's solicitation, had occasionally attempted to pull
an oar from Searle's slip to Battersea bridge. But his failure in
this line was so complete, and he had to encounter so much of
Norman's raillery, which was endurable, and of his instruction,
which was unendurable, that he very soon gave up the pursuit. He
was not more successful with a racket; and keeping a horse was of
course out of the question.

They had a bond of union in certain common friends whom they much
loved, and with whom they much associated. At least these friends
soon became common to them. The acquaintance originally belonged
to Norman, and he had first cemented his friendship with Tudor by
introducing him at the house of Mrs. Woodward. Since he had done
so, the one young man was there nearly as much as the other.

Who and what the Woodwards were shall be told in a subsequent
chapter. As they have to play as important a part in the tale
about to be told as our two friends of the Weights and Measures,
it would not be becoming to introduce them at the end of this.

As regards Alaric Tudor it need only be further said, by way of
preface, of him as of Harry Norman, that the faults of his
character must be made to declare themselves in the course of our
narrative.


CHAPTER II

THE INTERNAL NAVIGATION

