No wonder that both France and Germany have been sending out expeditions
to discover this Fortunate Island, but all in vain; and long before
these lines meet the gaze of my astonished readers, the flag that has
braved a thousand years the battle and the breeze will be fluttering
bravely on the topmost towers of Ungyway. I need scarcely add that we
shall in future pay for all our imports in gold, and send away our
superabundant pauper population, native and foreign, each with about one
hundred golden sovereigns in his capacious pockets, the cost price of
which being about two shillings.

Of course the one thing to do before the great scheme is finally settled
by Messrs. ROTHSCHILD and BARING, will be to get largely into debt at
the present price of gold, and pay it off at the price of the future,
and so, as ROBINSON says, spoil the Israelites; and so great is his
faith in the success of the scheme, that he actually offers to join me
in the transaction, and to obtain the money on our joint security. I am
to give him my final answer on Saturday.

JOSEPH GREENHORN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY AND THE BEAR.

_A Ballad of Bulgaria._

  It was the little Bulgar boy, and oh! it was the Bear,
  Whose affectionate relations were remarkable as rare;
  For the Bulgar boy of Bruin was the glory and the joy,
  And if anyone loved Bruin, 'twas that little Bulgar boy.
  It was very very touching, for your Bear, however good,
  Has seldom any liking for your boy--except as food;
  And your boy--or man--from feelings that humanity _may_ blame,
  Has commonly no yearning for your Bear--unless as game.
  But this Bear--on his own showing--was a Bear of simple worth,
  He was not a western "Grizzly," but a Bruin from the North,
  Which we know is "true and tender," or at least so poets swear,
  And these Northern traits--who doubts it?--are conspicuous in the Bear.

  Had he not that boy befriended in the kindest sort of style,
  In a fashion full of valour, as 'twas destitute of guile,
  When a Bubblyjock gigantic from the Bosphorus who hailed,
  Had assaulted that small Bulgar boy, and--thanks to Bruin--failed?
  And all that Bear expected in return for what he'd done,
  (And who of such a sentiment will venture to make fun?)
  Was the gratitude, and confidence, and love, and--well subjection,
  Of the boy whom he had taken 'neath his
  paws--I mean protection.

  But alas for human nature, which is radically bad!
  (And conservatively sinful) this same little Bulgar lad,
  When he found himself in safety from that Stamboul Bubblyjock,
  Took and acted in a manner that humanity must shock,
  For says he, "Oh, thank you, Bruin dear,--and now I'll go and play,
  And I'll just select the game myself, and work it my own way.
  You were quite disinterested, for you said so your own self,
  And I'm sure you don't want power, and of course you can't seek pelf,
  At your little friend's expense, Bear. No, I thank you very much,
  You have made a free boy of me--and I mean to act as such."

  So he ups and makes selection, this ungratefullest of boys,
  Of his soldiers, and his swords and guns, and crowns, and other toys;
  And when Bruin put his paw down in expostulation vain,
  The Bulgar boy suggested he should--take it up again.

  You may easily imagine gentle Bruin's sore disgust,
  At this sad reciprocation of his fondness and his trust.
  Says he, "This little rascal is just rushing on his ruin,
  For his only place of safety is the guardian arms of Bruin."
  And sundry other animals, and birds, and things, agreed with him,
  And cried, "The boy is mad, Bear; we must preach to him, and plead
    with him.
  Ay, even if 'tis needful, though against our natures mild,
  We must--well, we mustn't spare the rod, and spoil the--Bulgar--child."
  There were several Eagles thought this way; the Lion didn't quite,
  But he had a sort of feeling that this fight was not _his_ fight;
  And the Bubblyjock at Stamboul was found acting with the Bear,
  From rather mingled motives, which that fowl did not declare.

  Well, the Bulgar boy persisting still in making his own game,
  The Bear assumes a sternness it is difficult to blame,
  From the Bruin point of view, at least, for strength must be put forth
  Now and then, e'en by a (so-called) Divine Figure from the North.
  And so Bruin rears his carcase, and his sanctimonious "mug,"
  Takes a menacing expression, "Come," he cries, "into my hug,
  And be happy, naughty Bulgar boy; what _can_ you have to fear?"
  And the rest of the Menagerie of Europe say, "Hear! hear!"

  But like another "little boy," of whom you may have heard,
  With a cabalistic action as discourteous as absurd,
  (The Bulgar boy maintains it means no more than prudent doubt)
  He "puts his thumb unto his nose, and spreads his fingers out."

  Now whether Bear will bear it, after all his love and care,
  Or whether that small Bulgar boy will cave in to the Bear,
  And how those Birds, the Eagles and the Bubblyjock, will turn,
  Are questions none can answer now; but he who lives will learn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: COSTUMES FOR THE RECESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

(NOT SO) BAD HOMBURG.

TRAVEL NOTES, FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.

_Homburg, Monday._--GEORGE TREVELYAN once told me that his eminent
Uncle, having gone all abroad to Dieppe, wrote to his sister, describing
voyage from Dover by five groans. Our journey from Dover to Calais might
be described by five smiles. Sea not absolutely calm; but dancing waves,
curling in sunlight, nothing to _Victoria_--not our Gracious Sovereign,
but Queen of L. C. & D.'s fleet. Made passage smoothly and swiftly in
little over hour. Railway journey hither, by Brussels and Coblenz,
pretty fair for _le Continong_, but not a patch on the L. C. D. Express
from Victoria Station to Dover. They manage some things better abroad;
certainly not express trains or express boats.

Arrived here to find it raining in torrents. Everybody said it hadn't
rained for two months before. Glad to hear this, but didn't keep us dry.
Rain only just commenced; all the shops and doorways thronged with
people, in full summer costume; not an umbrella among twenty; forgotten
what rain was like; now forcibly reminded of its peculiarities. With
intermission of one full day, and occasional hours, been raining ever
since. If it must rain, Homburg as good a place to be in as most public
haunts; lies within narrow compass; soil rapidly absorbent; if it rains
in torrents at ten o'clock, and sun afterwards comes out, roadways dry
by noon. Then there is the Kurhaus always open; palatial building, not
to be outdone in size and beauty by Casino at Monte Carlo; but sound of
roulette tablets silent. The "game is made" for ever; _on ne va plus_.
Sometimes, on wet afternoons, there is found in the lofty, and otherwise
cool room, one or two elderly gentlemen, who play doleful game of
_écarté_, poor shivering ghosts of departed gamesters. Gambling played
out, but there remain the magnificent halls. The Ball-room still used,
the music on the Terrace still listened to, the banqueting-hall still
crowded, and the gardens still glowing with roses, and shaded by
lindens. Only disappointed gamesters who call the place Bad Homburgs;
even with the rain, it is not so bad after all.

By the way, talking of nature of soil, a dog I met here drawing
milk-cart, told me curious story. Homburg resorted to by invalids of
both sexes and all conditions; take the waters inside and out; but my
friend told me of another cure not less remarkable. Soil of Homburg
composed of Fuller's-earth, warranted to absorb superfluous grease from
cloth substances. Obese Englishman hearing this on arrival, asked why
this quality should be confined to application to cloth? if
Fuller's-earth took superfluous fat from piece of cloth, why not from
body of stout Englishman? Decided to solve question; dug hole in
back-garden; lay in it for twenty minutes with loose soil shovelled over
him up to chin; repeated bath on alternate days for three weeks; end of
first week hole too roomy; end of second week had to be further filled
in; end of third week his clothes no use to him; had to lie in bed for
three days whilst re-fitted. Went home quite a slim person.

Prince of WALES still here when I arrived. Been the lifes and souls of
the party for nearly three weeks. "You here, TOBY?" says he, when we met
on first morning; "is House up, then?" "Not yet, Sir; but _I_'ve been
all night. Doctor ordered me to be here at seven in morning; this an
immaterial extension to us who have been sitting up at Westminster every
night of week till three or four in morning. So had all-night sitting,
and here I am punctually at seven o'clock."

Don't see how I'm going to keep it up though, through three weeks; must
find some other way of getting up at half-past six. Can't imagine how
H.R.H. does it; but here he is every morning at seven o'clock, taking
his glasses of water with the rest of the "patients," and going the
regulation walk in the intervals. For an invalid, looks uncommonly
robust; does his final four miles well within the hour.

_Saturday._--Rain again, but really so occupied with cure that haven't
time to notice it, and certainly can't let it interfere with Doctor's
orders. No more all-night sittings now. End of third went off to sleep
at noon after bath. Didn't wake till six next morning, just in time to
dress and down to Elizabeth Well with the rest. Found this much better
arrangement. So now go to bed about nine in the afternoon; get up at
6.30 in dead of night. Arrived at Well, take glass of water, then march
up and down for fifteen minutes by Homburg clock. Another glass and
another fifteen minutes; a third glass, and hour's walk; after which
allowed to totter home, and breakfast. Amount of things you are not to
eat and drink amazing; some of them never tasted in my life; now
strongly tempted. But hotels under sceptre of Doctor DEETZ. He watches
unseen over _table d'hôte_, and prevents most nice things from coming to
dinner.

After breakfast (bread, tea, or coffee, no butter, much less mild
breakfast bacon), bath on alternate days, between eleven and noon.
Something like a bath; on first investigation, seems bottomless; but
plummet reaches conclusion at last. Here sit up to the chin for twenty
minutes, shivering at thought of what would happen supposing bath sprang
a leak. Luncheon at one, strictly supervised; between three and five,
more tumblers of water at another Well, with more vigorous walks round
and round, as if you were looking for the Post Office, couldn't find it,
and began to feel certain you would miss the next despatch. Dinner at
six, with the shadow of the good Doctor DEETZ pervading the place, and
ordering off all the toothsome dishes. Afterwards a stroll in the
Kurhaus, where the band is playing, and men, maids, and matrons, not all
quite so young as they were, chatter and flirt.

Such is our life in Homburg, enlivened, about a fortnight ago, by great
scandal, which wild horses shall not drag from me. But ask any lady
fresh from Homburg. Will, at first, say, "No, she really can't; too
painful," and so on. But _après, le déluge_ of confidence.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME NOTES AT STARMOUTH.

In Professor SKITTLES' chair--with the sun in my eyes. He has not begun
to read my character yet; he is still measuring--with tape this time. I
must say he takes great pains. Blazer contingent has moved up closer;
they pretend to recognise me as "Cousin BILL." Take no notice of
them--try to fix my thoughts far away--on ETHEL DERING. How pretty she
looked that night! Wonder, if I had plucked up my courage and spoken,
whether she might not have----However, I didn't, and she couldn't. How
full is life of these missed opportunities! ("You're leaving out his
nose, Guv'nor!" from a Blazer, and giggles from idiotic girls in front.)
I feel very forlorn and friendless up here. Professor has finished
measuring, and is preparing to "delineate" me.

Cross my legs, and compose myself to listen seriously. ("Cheer up, Sir;
he'll tell you when he's going to 'urt you!" _yelps a beast in the
background_.)

"Here we 'ave a gentleman," says the Professor, passing his hand along
the top of my head, "in some respects rather a contrast to our last
subject." (_I should hope so, indeed!_) "This gentleman's 'ed is the
second largest we have had under examination to-day." ("'Ear-'ear!"
_from the Blazers, and a meaningless suggestion that I should_ "make a
good 'atter!") "His Mental Brain is scarcely so large as we might
expect; in fact, if the development of the lower brain were in
proportion, we should find the gentleman--well, I _was_ going to say, an
idiot. Fortunately the brain, though not tall, is wide. He has Firmness,
Energy, and what we call Driving Power, very large. This is a very
curious gentleman"--("Oughter be stuffed!" _puts in a ruffian, and
everybody laughs--even the Professor--confound him!--smiles
indulgently_.) "He likes to go everywhere, and see everything. He can
sit down to a good dinner, and enjoy it." (_Shouldn't have thought that
a rare characteristic--but it delights the audience._) "His Self-Esteem
is large." (_There he is quite wrong--I haven't nearly_ enough!)
"Acquisitiveness also large; this gentleman believes in getting the full
value for his money." (_Don't believe I shall get it here, at all
events!_) "He is very cheerful and social." ("Don't he _look_ it, too!"
_from a Blazer, and, of course, roars of laughter._) "In fact, if he
were a little _less_ social, it would be better." (_This to me--who have
come down here for absolute seclusion. This Professor is a fool!_) "He
will be fond of his children and of his wife." ("And can't she comb his
'air for him!" _from the usual quarter_. _I am a bachelor, and this sort
of thing is getting scandalous._) Professor says, "I must appeal to this
gentleman's friends"--(_this gentleman's "friends!"_)--"to keep a little
more quiet while we are delineating. There is very small Eventuality--we
should like to see a little more Eventuality--he must try to cultivate
his Eventuality." (_Indeed? Perhaps he will kindly tell me how I am to
set about it!_) "Approbativeness large; so we shall see him very anxious
to gain the good opinion of others." (_When I don't care a straw what
people say of me! Phrenology is bosh--absolute bosh!_) "Destructiveness
small; this is not a gentleman who will do very much damage." (_Sighs of
mock relief from Blazers._) "Nor is he, we should find, particularly
combative." ... ("You 'aven't seen 'im of a Saturday night," _interrupts
some vulgar brute_.) Psha!--I won't listen; regard the audience with
calm reproach. What a face that is on the second bench! what a pair of
brown eyes!--kind of eyes _Juliet_ must have had. ETHEL'S are light
grey--what a serious, simple expression! She is not giggling, like all
those fools--I could almost fancy she feels for me. How superior she
seems to all the rest. ETHEL DERING herself could not look more
exquisitely out of place. In fact, I am not sure that ETHEL would keep
her countenance so well as this girl, who is bending forward with parted
lips, and that sweet, interested light in her eyes.... I am getting
sentimental. Was _Romeo_ ever "delineated"? Professor is summing me
up--I may as well listen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: July yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Row me O!

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "Parting is such sweet sorrow." _Shakspeare._

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "Here's for thy panes." _Shakspeare._

       *       *       *       *       *

"This is a gentleman of excellent business ability, and I should say he
would be perfectly capable of managing a tolerably large business
concern." ("Then how was it he got the sack from the 'am-and-beef shop?"
_inquired one of the pests_.) "He is pushing and energetic, and he would
get on well--even in a 'olesale business." (_He is growing absolutely
fulsome!_) "If in business for himself, we shall not find him in a hurry
to shut up his shop exactly at the hour of closing, if he thinks he
could make more by keeping open a little longer." (_Considering that I
am in Government employ, with a decided leaning to literary pursuits,
which has not, as yet, met with much support--this is rather too much,
but it would be snobbish, perhaps, to say anything._) "I may add,"
concludes the Professor, with the air of a man who is conceding
somewhat, "that this gentleman would be qualified to succeed, would do
very well, as an artistic decorator. Are there any questions you would
like to ask?"

Not after that--no, none; I haven't the heart to ask him if he thinks I
could write even a creditable Nautical Drama! Besides, my faith in
Phrenology is shaken. Let me get away--out of sight and hearing of these
infernal Blazers.

Rise and leave with ironical dignity. Professor calls me back--thinks I
forgot to pay my shilling. Annoying, because it _had_ escaped me. "You
didn't tell us he had a bump for bilking!" jeers a fiend--"bilking," I
believe, is 'Arryan for going away without paying. Ironical dignity a
failure. "Will I pay half-a-crown extra, and have a written report of my
character?" I will _not_. Blazers seem sorry to part with me.

_Afternoon._--Too much depressed to work at Drama. Sands again.
Crowd--Conjuror. I shall see this time. "I want a soft gentleman's hat,"
he says, suddenly. "Do you mind?" He takes mine--the crowd roar. "Will I
assist him in this trick?" I did not mean to catch his eye--but I don't
like to be disobliging.

I am in the centre with the Conjuror. "May he do what he pleases with my
hat?" "By all means," I say, graciously. Then he'll _keep_ it, he says.
Childish joke that! "You're quite sure there's no hole in it?" he asks.
I am not, I tell him, in the habit of wearing a hat with a hole in it.
"Ain't you really? how do you get your head in?" he retorts, sharply.
Very old--but Starmouth people easily amused.

"Do I ever toss for drinks?" No, I do not. Then he will show me how to
do so, and win every time. He tosses up a penny on the little table, and
covers it with my hat. "Which do I think it is?" I say heads--to please
him. Again. "Now, Sir, heads or tails?" I happen to have seen it fall
head uppermost--but no doubt he has manipulated it some way--if I say
tails, he will look rather foolish. Tails, then. Will I lift my hat? I
do--a _guinea-pig!_ Renewed roars. I ought to be above feeling annoyed
at this tomfoolery--but these conjuring fellows go too far.

_Evening,_--On Pier. Military Band. Bazaar: ladies and children touting
for it. Wonder whether my "Firmness" is as large as Professor SKITTLES
declared.--Because I certainly never _intended_ to buy a box of
cracker-bonbons, or a basket of ripe tomatoes--and yet here I am,
carrying them about! And when I took a ticket for a raffle, I hardly
counted upon winning this particularly gaudy sofa-cushion. Clergyman
wants to sell me a very small plumcake, only three shillings.... I find
I _can_ be firm after all.

The girl with the brown eyes is on the pier, too, with a stout
respectable old female--probably her maid. I think they recognise me as
the victim of Phrenology; they glance at me with interest. Ah me! I
wish--I wish, but what is the use of wishing?

In the Bazaar again. Young lady proposes to tell me my fortune for a
penny, with a revolving card. I am in a superstitious mood--I want
encouraging. She spins the card; the dial indicates, as she informs me,
with unnecessary glee, "You spend your time in trifles."--Is a Nautical
Drama a "trifle," I should like to know? I can't be quite the thing, for
this incident affects me almost to tears. I have had a depressing day.
Bed in low spirits.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE.--Rejected Communications or Contributions, whether MS., Printed
Matter, Drawings, or Pictures of any description, will in no case be
returned, not even when accompanied by a Stamped and Addressed Envelope,
Cover, or Wrapper. To this rule there will be no exception.