Produced by Irma Špehar, David Garcia and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


                              PRICE ONE SHILLING.


                                     THE
                               BUTTERFLY'S BALL,

                                [Illustration]

                                    AND THE
                             _GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST_.

                                [Illustration]


                                 By Mr. ROSCOE.

                      ILLUSTRATED WITH ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS.


                                    LONDON:

                Printed for J. HARRIS, Successor to E. NEWBERY,
                at the Original Juvenile Library, the Corner of
                            St. Paul's Church Yard.

                                     1808.


_Printed on Hand-made Paper, bound in characteristic style, with uncut
edges, price Half-a-Crown_,


                                GOODY TWO-SHOES

                            A FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION

                                     OF THE

                                EDITION OF 1766

                             _WITH AN INTRODUCTION_

             GIVING SOME ACCOUNT OF THE BOOK AND SOME SPECULATIONS
                              AS TO ITS AUTHORSHIP

                                       BY

                                 CHARLES WELSH


    "The facsimile of 'Goody Two-Shoes,' which Mr Welsh has edited,
    and Messrs Griffith and Farran published, might be classed among
    the Christmas books of the season, but it deserves more extended
    notice, as reproducing a volume which, if hardly known to the
    present generation, ranks among English Classics. Mr Welsh deserves
    hearty thanks for the trouble he has taken in producing this neat
    little volume."--_Athenæum._

    "We are sure that many who are no longer in their youth will be
    pleased to see it."--_Queen._

    "A very quaint little book."--_Punch._

    "Notwithstanding the difficulties of type, the cramped pages
    that will not keep open, and the hideous woodcuts so faithfully
    reproduced, we have seen more than one child reject the latest
    picture book of Mr Caldecott or Kate Greenaway, with its purple
    and gold, for the hodden grey of 'Goody Two-Shoes.'"--_Pall
    Mall Gazette._

                               GRIFFITH & FARRAN,

                       _Successors to Newbery & Harris_,
                  WEST CORNER OF ST PAUL'S CHURCHYARD, LONDON.

    ==> _A few copies are done up in an exact reproduction, by hand, of
    the original flowery and gilt Dutch pattern, price Five Shillings._


                              THE BUTTERFLY'S BALL

                                    AND THE

                              GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST


                                  BY MR ROSCOE


                            A FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION
                                     OF THE
                                EDITION OF 1808


                             _WITH AN INTRODUCTION_
                                BY CHARLES WELSH


                               GRIFFITH & FARRAN
                        _Successors to Newbery & Harris_
                  WEST CORNER OF ST PAUL'S CHURCHYARD, LONDON
                   FIELD & TUER, YE LEADENHALLE PRESSE, E.C.

                                  MDCCCLXXXIII


INTRODUCTION.


Early in the present century John Harris--one of the successors to the
business of "Honest John Newbery," now carried on by Messrs Griffith &
Farran at the old corner of St. Paul's Churchyard--began the publication
of a series of little books, which for many years were probably among
the most famous of the productions of the House. Now, however, according
to the fate which usually overtakes books for children, nearly all of
them are forgotten or unknown.

The first book in this series which was known as _Harris's Cabinet_
was "The Butterfly's Ball," and was published in January 1807. This was
followed in the same year by "The Peacock at Home" (a sequel to "The
Butterfly's Ball"), "The Elephant's Ball," and "The Lion's Masquerade;"
and then (prompted no doubt by the success of these, for we learn on the
publisher's authority that of the two first 40,000 copies were sold
within twelve months) Mr Harris brought out a torrent of little books
of a like kind, of which the titles were: "The Lioness's Ball," "The
Lobster's Voyage to the Brazils," "The Cat's Concert," "The Fishes'
Grand Gala," "Madame Grimalkin's Party," "The Jackdaw's Home," "The
Lion's Parliament," "The Water King's Levée;" and in 1809, by which
time, naturally enough, the idea seems to have become quite threshed out
and exhausted, the last of the Series was published; this was entitled,
"The Three Wishes, or Think before you Speak."

Of this long list of books a few of the titles are still familiar, and
one of them, "The Butterfly's Ball," may certainly claim to have become
a Nursery Classic. It is still in regular demand; the edition now in
sale being illustrated by Harrison Weir; it has been published in
various forms, and has figured in most of the collections of prose and
verse for the young that have been issued during this century. Probably
to the minds of hundreds of people past middle age few lines are more
familiar than the opening couplet--

  "Come take up your hats, and away let us haste
   To the Butterfly's Ball and Grasshopper's Feast"--


and many no doubt by a little effort of memory could repeat
the whole poem.

Hardly less famous were the three books which next followed in order
of issue--"The Peacock at Home," "The Elephant's Ball," and "The Lion's
Masquerade." Their original size was 5 by 4 inches, and they were issued
in a simple printed paper wrapper. It is of these first four books that
the reprint is here given, and in order to present both pictures and
text with greater effect this reprint has been made upon considerably
larger paper; the text and illustrations are fac-simile reproductions
of originals from the celebrated Flaxman collection recently dispersed
at a sale by Messrs Christie, Manson, & Woods, when Mr Tuer, to whom
I am indebted for their loan, became their fortunate possessor. "The
Butterfly's Ball" is not a reproduction of the first edition, which, as
will be shown later on, would be considered by those who are familiar
with the poem as incomplete. Moreover, the illustrations in the edition
here presented are obviously by the same hand as that which embellished
the other three books, and it was felt that for these reasons it would
possess a greater interest.

"The Butterfly's Ball" first appeared in the November number of the
_Gentleman's Magazine_, where it is said to have been written by William
Roscoe--M.P. for Liverpool, the author of "The Life of Leo X.," and well
known in the literary circles of his day--for the use of his children,
and set to music by order of their Majesties for the Princess Mary.
When the verses were subsequently published in book form, the text
and pictures were engraved together on copperplates. An edition, with
pictures on separate pages, appeared early in the next year, which is
the one here reproduced.

In this edition there are many variations from the previous one. The
allusions to "little Robert"--evidently William Roscoe's son--do not
occur in the former, and many slight improvements, tending to make the
verses more rhythmical and flowing, are introduced. The whole passage,
"Then close on his haunches" (p. 7) to "Chirp his own praises the rest
of the night," &c. (p. 10), is an interpolation in this later edition.
It is, I believe, certain that the verses were written by Roscoe for
his children on the occasion of the birthday of his son Robert, who was
nearly the youngest of his seven sons. No doubt when they were copied
out for setting to music the allusions to his own family were omitted by
the author. A correspondent of _Notes and Queries_--who is, I believe,
a niece of the late Sir George Smart--says, in reference to the question
of the setting of the verses to music, that--


    "The MS., in Roscoe's own handwriting, as sent to Sir G. Smart
    for setting to music, is in a valuable collection of autographs
    bequeathed by the musician to his daughter. The glee was written
    for the three princesses--Elizabeth, Augusta, and Mary--daughters
    of George III, and pupils of Sir George, and was performed by them
    during one of their usual visits to Weymouth."


"The Peacock at Home" and "The Lion's Masquerade" were, as the
title-page puts it, written "by a Lady," and we should most likely
have remained in ignorance as to who the lady was if there had not
been published in 1816 another little book of a somewhat similar
character, entitled "The Peacock and Parrot on their Tour to discover
the Author of 'The Peacock at Home,'" which, the Preface tells us, was
written immediately after the appearance of "The Peacock at Home,"
but from various circumstances was laid aside. "In the opinion of the
publishers," the Preface goes on to say, "it is so nearly allied in
point of merit to that celebrated trifle that it is introduced at this
late period."

The book relates in verse how the peacock and parrot--

        "... far as England extends
  Then together did travel to visit their friends,
  Endeavour to find out the name of our poet,
  And ere we return ten to one that we know it."


After long travelling--

  "A path strewed with flowers they gaily pursued,
   And in fancy their long-sought Incognita viewed.
   Till all their cares over in Dorset they found her,
   And plucking a wreath of green bay-leaves they crowned her."


In a footnote is added, "Mrs Dorset was the authoress of 'The Peacock
at Home.'"

Mrs Dorset, according to a note by Mr Dyce which appears on the fly-leaf
of a copy of "The Peacock at Home," in the Dyce and Forster Collection
at South Kensington, was sister to Charlotte Smith. Their maiden name
was Turner.

The British Museum Catalogue says Mrs Dorset also wrote "The Three
Wishes, or Think before you Speak," which is the last on the list of
books in _Harris's Cabinet_. (_See_ p. iv.)

It seems to be clear that the same lady wrote "The Lion's Masquerade" as
"The Peacock at Home," for in "The Lioness's Ball" (a companion to "The
Lion's Masquerade") the dedication begins thus--

  "I do not, fair Dorset, I do not aspire,
     With notes so unhallowed as mine,
   To touch the sweet strings of thy beautiful lyre,
     Or covet the praise that is thine."


I regret that I am unable to offer any conjecture here as to the "W. B."
who wrote "The Elephant's Ball:" the same initials appear to an appendix
to an edition of "Goody Two Shoes," published some time before 1780, but
this may be a coincidence only.

       *       *       *       *       *

Besides the interest and merit of these little books on literary grounds,
these earlier editions are especially noteworthy because they were
illustrated by the painter William Mulready, and the drawings he made
for them are amongst the earliest efforts of his genius: they were
executed before he had reached man's estate. It is not a little
curious to observe in this connection how many artists who have
risen to eminence have at the outset of their career been employed
in illustrating books for children; it would indeed appear that until
comparatively recent years the veriest tiro was considered capable of
furnishing the necessary embellishments for books for the nursery--a
state of things which, we need not say, happily does not obtain in
the present day. Notwithstanding this, however, these and many other
little books of a bygone time abound in instructive indications of the
beginnings of genius which has subsequently delighted the world with
its masterpieces.

In connection with Mulready and children's books it may be interesting
to note that in 1806 a little book called "The Looking Glass" was
published, said to be written by William Godwin under the name of
"Theophilus Markliffe." This work is the history and early adventures of
a young artist, and it is known that it was compiled from a conversation
with Mulready, who was then engaged in illustrating some juvenile books
for the author, and the facts in it relate to the painter's early life.
It contains illustrations of the talent of the subject done at three,
five, and six years old, which are presumed to be imitations of
Mulready's own drawings at the same ages.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot more fitly close these few words of Introduction than by
quoting the quaint and curious announcement with which Mr Harris was
wont to commend these little books to the public. "It is unnecessary,"
says he, "for the publisher to say anything more of these little
productions than that they have been purchased with avidity and read
with satisfaction by persons in all ranks of life." No doubt the public
of to-day will be curious to see what manner of book it was that was so
eagerly sought after by the children of the early days of the present
century, and interested in comparing it with the more finished but often
showy and sensational productions of our own time.

C. W.

LEYTONSTONE,

_September 1883._


                                      THE

                               BUTTERFLY'S BALL,

                                    AND THE

                              GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST.

                                 BY MR. ROSCOE.


                                   _LONDON_:
                PRINTED FOR J. HARRIS, SUCCESSOR TO E. NEWBERY,
                    AT THE ORIGINAL JUVENILE LIBRARY, CORNER
                           OF ST. PAUL'S CHURCH-YARD.

                                     1808.


                 _Field & Tuer, Ye Leadenhalle Presse, London._


_FRONTISPIECE._

[Illustration: _"Come take up your hats & away let us haste."_

_Pub. Jan. 25, 1808, by J. Harris, corner St. Paul's Church Yd._]


THE

BUTTERFLY'S BALL.


  Come take up your Hats, and away let us haste
  To the _Butterfly's_ Ball, and the _Grasshopper's_ Feast.
  The Trumpeter, _Gad-fly_, has summon'd the Crew,
  And the Revels are now only waiting for you.

  So said little Robert, and pacing along,
  His merry Companions came forth in a Throng.
  And on the smooth Grass, by the side of a Wood,
  Beneath a broad Oak that for Ages had stood,

[Illustration: _"Saw the children of earth & the tenants of air,"_]

  Saw the Children of Earth, and the Tenants of Air,
  For an Evening's Amusement together repair.
  And there came the _Beetle_, so blind and so black,
  Who carried the _Emmet_, his Friend, on his Back.

  And there was the _Gnat_ and the _Dragon-fly_ too,
  With all their Relations, Green, Orange, and Blue.
  And there came the _Moth_, with his Plumage of Down,
  And the _Hornet_ in Jacket of Yellow and Brown;

  Who with him the _Wasp_, his Companion, did bring,
  But they promis'd, that Evening, to lay by their Sting.
  And the sly little _Dormouse_ crept out of his Hole,
  And brought to the Feast his blind Brother, the _Mole_.

[Illustration: _"And the sly little dormouse crept out of his hole."_]

  And the _Snail_, with his Horns peeping out of his Shell,
  Came from a great Distance, the Length of an Ell.
  A Mushroom their Table, and on it was laid
  A Water-dock Leaf, which a Table-cloth made.

[Illustration: _"And the Bee brought her honey," &c._]

  The Viands were various, to each of their Taste,
  And the _Bee_ brought her Honey to crown the Repast.
  Then close on his Haunches, so solemn and wise,
  The _Frog_ from a Corner, look'd up to the Skies.

  And the _Squirrel_ well pleas'd such Diversions to see,
  Mounted high over Head, and look'd down from a Tree.
  Then out came the _Spider_, with Finger so fine,
  To shew his Dexterity on the tight Line.

  From one Branch to another, his Cobwebs he slung,
  Then quick as an Arrow he darted along,
  But just in the Middle,--Oh! shocking to tell,
  From his Rope, in an Instant, poor Harlequin fell.

[Illustration: _"Hung suspended in air," &c._]

  Yet he touch'd not the Ground, but with Talons outspread,
  Hung suspended in Air, at the End of a Thread.
  Then the _Grasshopper_ came with a Jerk and a Spring,
  Very long was his Leg, though but short was his Wing;

  He took but three Leaps, and was soon out of Sight,
  Then chirp'd his own Praises the rest of the Night.
  With Step so majestic the _Snail_ did advance,
  And promis'd the Gazers a Minuet to dance.

[Illustration: _"With step so Majestic the snail did advance,"_]

  But they all laugh'd so loud that he pull'd in his Head,
  And went in his own little Chamber to Bed.
  Then, as Evening gave Way to the Shadows of Night,
  Their Watchman, the _Glow-worm_, came out with a Light.

[Illustration: _"So said little Robert, & pacing along," &c._]

  Then Home let us hasten, while yet we can see,
  For no Watchman is waiting for you and for me,
  So said little Robert, and pacing along,
  His merry Companions returned in a Throng.



END OF THE BUTTERFLY'S BALL.