Lycurgus laid it down as law that the king shall offer in behalf of the
state all public sacrifices, as being himself of divine descent, (2) and
whithersoever the state shall despatch her armies the king shall take
the lead. He granted him to receive honorary gifts of the things offered
in sacrifice, and he appointed him choice land in many of the provincial
cities, enough to satisfy moderate needs without excess of wealth. And
in order that the kings also might camp and mess in public he appointed
them public quarters; and he honoured them with a double portion (3)
each at the evening meal, not in order that they might actually eat
twice as much as others, but that the king might have wherewithal to
honour whomsoever he desired. He also granted as a gift to each of the
two kings to choose two mess-fellows, which same are called Puthioi. He
also granted them to receive out of every litter of swine one pig, so
that the king might never be at a loss for victims if in aught he wished
to consult the gods.

 (2) I.e. a Heracleid, in whichever line descended, and, through
    Heracles, from Zeus himself. The kings are therefore "heroes,"
    i.e. demigods. See below; and for their privileges, see Herod. vi.
    56, 57.

 (3) See "Ages." v. 1.

Close by the palace a lake affords an unrestricted supply of water; and
how useful that is for various purposes they best can tell who lack the
luxury. (4) Moreover, all rise from their seats to give place to the
king, save only that the ephors rise not from their thrones of office.
Monthly they exchange oaths, the ephors in behalf of the state, the king
himself in his own behalf. And this is the oath on the king's part: "I
will exercise my kingship in accordance with the established laws of the
state." And on the part of the state the oath runs: "So long as he (5)
(who exercises kingship) shall abide by his oaths we will not suffer his
kingdom to be shaken." (6)

 (4) See Hartman, "An. Xen. N." p. 274; but cf. "Cyneget." v. 34;
    "Anab." V. iii. 8.

 (5) Lit. "he yonder."

 (6) Lit. "we will keep it for him unshaken." See L. Dindorf, n. ad
    loc. and praef. p. 14 D.

These then are the honours bestowed upon the king during his lifetime
(at home) (7)--honours by no means much exceeding those of private
citizens, since the lawgiver was minded neither to suggest to the kings
the pride of the despotic monarch, (8) nor, on the other hand, to
engender in the heart of the citizen envy of their power. As to those
other honours which are given to the king at his death, (9) the laws of
Lycurgus would seem plainly to signify hereby that these kings of
Lacedaemon are not mere mortals but heroic beings, and that is why they
are preferred in honour. (10)

 (7) The words "at home" look like an insertion.

 (8) Lit. "the tyrant's pride."

 (9) See "Hell." III. iii. 1; "Ages." xi. 16; Herod. vi. 58.

 (10) Intentionally or not on the part of the writer, the concluding
    words, in which the intention of the Laws is conveyed, assume a
    metrical form:

        {oukh os anthropous all os eroas tous
         Lakedaimonion basileis protetimekasin.}

    See Ern. Naumann, op. cit. p. 18.