She has the reputation of being one of the three best dressed women in
Europe, and never wears anything, not even her boots, more than once.
Her wit is positively brilliant, and in this connection it may be
asserted once for all that it was she who first gave vogue to the
greeting, "Doodledo," an abbreviated form of "How d'you do," though
others have been given the credit for that sparkling pleasantry. In the
art of "setting down" she is unapproachable, combining gentle courtesy
with fine satire and mordant epigram, as on the occasion when a certain
pushing and impossible outside person claimed her acquaintance in public
with a loud "How are you?" With her own look and smile she turned and
gave him his _coup de grâce_--"Not any the better for seeing you!"--at
which an exalted foreign Personage, who was chatting with her laughed so
much that he fell into an apoplexy.

She and her husband are sometimes at their beautiful place in
Middleshire, and sometimes at their mansion in Belvenor Square. When
they are not in England they are generally abroad. She is devoted to
horse-riding, motoring, yachting, and ski-ing, but has not, like some of
her set, forgotten how to walk. On the contrary, when in town she may
occasionally be seen taking this old-fashioned form of exercise in the
Park, placing one foot alternately before the other in her charmingly
characteristic manner.

She has once or twice, in a delightfully mischievous spirit, amused
herself by flouting those very social ordinances of which she is an
acknowledged high priestess. When wars, strikes, and Governments are
forgotten, it will still be remembered how, some years ago when she was
a few months younger than she is now, she appeared in her box at the
opera on a MELBA (_and therefore a tiara_) night wearing a necklace of
spar beads and a large ribbon bow on her head. An electric shock ran
through the house; opera and singers were unheeded; and the beautiful
Countess of ---- tore the family diamonds from her head and neck, and,
with a shriek of despair, flung them into the orchestra.

The subject of our article could have shone in any or all of the arts,
had she cared to give her time and talents to them. Let it be said, too,
that, though surrounded from her infancy with "all this world and all
the glory of it," she has a serious side to her character, countenances
the Church, and by no means discourages religion.

It is widely known that she keeps a diary. Ah! if only that diary, in
its dainty, morocco, gold-clasped volumes, could be abstracted from the
wonderful mother-o'-pearl escritoire, carried out of the exquisite
Renaissance boudoir, down the noble staircase and out of the massive
hall-door, and, after the spelling, grammar and composition had been
slightly overhauled, if it could but be published and given to the eager
world, what an intellectual feast it would provide! And to the fair,
gifted, high-born diarist what a fortune it would bring, and what a
number of simply _absorbing_ libel cases!

_GUESS WHO IT IS._

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Daily Mail_ must be more careful with its posters. Here are two
recent examples:--

£2 A WEEK FOR LIFE.

DRAMATIC END TO SACK CRIME TRIAL.

£2 A WEEK FOR LIFE.

COOLEST FRAUD ON RECORD.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lady Dorothy Wood, sister of the Earl of Onslow and wife of the
    Hon. E. F. Wood, M.P., son and heir of Viscount Halifax, was the
    recipient of birthday congratulations yesterday, when the Earl
    of Erroll, of Slain's Castle, Aberdeenshire, completed his 62nd
    year."--_Observer._

The Earl of ERROLL'S turn for congratulations will come when Lady
DOROTHY has a birthday.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S PANTOMIME ANALYSIS.

Now that the Pantomime season is drawing to a close and the intelligent
student of this branch of Drama is tempted to pass it in review, it may
be useful to him to have a list of possible Pantomimes drawn up in a
tabulated form according to genus and species, that their finer
distinctions, so easily overlooked, may be the better apprehended. _Mr.
Punch_ has no hesitation in placing his nice erudition at the disposal
of his readers.

Pantomimes may be divided into those of a distinctly Oriental origin and
_milieu_ and those which are either associated with Occidental
localities or with none in particular. For convenience we may divide
them broadly and loosely into Oriental and Non-Oriental Pantomimes. Very
well, then.

I.--Oriental.

A. With a ship (_Sinbad the Sailor_).

B. Without a ship.
  (a) With a cave.
    (1) Password to cave, "Open Sesame" (_The Forty Thieves_).
    (2) Password to cave, "Abracadabra" (_Aladdin_).

  (b) Without a cave (_Bluebeard_).

II.--Non-Oriental.

A. With a ship.
  (a) With a cat (_Dick Whittington_).
  (b) Without a cat (_Robinson Crusoe_).

B. Without a ship.
  (a) With a giant.
    (1) With a cat (_Puss-in-Boots_).
    (2) Without a cat.
      (i.) With a bean-stalk (_Jack and the Beanstalk_).
      (ii.) Without a beanstalk (_Jack the Giant-Killer_).

  (b) Without a giant:
    (1) With animals: sheep (_Bo-Peep_);
        wolf (_Little Red Riding-Hood_);
        goose (_Mother Goose_);
        uncertain (_Beauty and the Beast_);
        two children (_The Babes in the Wood_).

    (2) Without animals.
      (i.) With footgear: shoes (_Goody Two-Shoes_);
           slippers (_Cinderella_).
     (ii.) No particular footgear.
       (a) With a "Jack" (_Jack and
              Jill, Little Jack Horner, The House that Jack Built_).
       (b) Without a "Jack" (The Sleeping Beauty).

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice on a suite of furniture:--

    "Monthly payments 12/6. They will last a lifetime."

Help!

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE OF US--NOW.

[Illustration: The Old Postmaster-General (_to the New
Postmaster-General_). "THAT YOU, HOBHOUSE? I'VE BEEN TRYING TO GET
THROUGH TO YOU ON THIS INFERNAL TELEPHONE FOR THE LAST HALF-HOUR. I WANT
TO CONGRATULATE YOU ON BEING APPOINTED TO A DEPARTMENT WHICH I LEFT IN A
STATE OF PERFECT EFFICIENCY.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Fair Yankee_ (_who, on her first visit to England, has
been told how extremely obliging the London policeman is_). "Say, would
you vurry kindly do up my shoe-string?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

"CINES" OF THE TIMES.

(_A far-away Project of educational Films._)

  O advent of the age of gold,
    O happy day for proud papas
  When Hellas shall her tale unfold
    On secondary "cinemas"!

  When "all the glory that was Greece
    And all the grandeur that was Rome"
  Shall hire on a perpetual lease
    The academic "Picturedrome."

  O OVID on the screen for kids!
    O Helicon attained by 'bus!
  O filmographic Aeneids!
   O vitoscoped HERODOTUS!

  Our boys shall note the sacred Nine
    Ascending their immortal peak,
  Also Apollo (he was fine
    In the old films as _Alf the Freak_).

  They shall behold TEIRESIAS
    Telling the doom of Thebes, and con
  With eyes but not with lips the crass
    Way in which OEDIPUS went on.

  They shall observe quite painlessly
    The heroes toiling as they sit
  Rowing upon the sun-kissed sea
    With black smuts racing over it.

  Some stout electroscopic "star,"
    Some Gallic beauty bistre-eyed,
  Shall show them in the years afar
    How Helen laughed, how Priam died,

  And how the good ÆNEAS came
    Through faked adventures on the screen
  To Latium, and what forks of flame
    Devoured a dummy Punic queen.

  What snares the Queen of Love employed,
    What Juno: mixed with local ads,
  These shall be thoroughly enjoyed
    By all appreciative lads.

  And some day, if the gods are kind
    To hearts so filled with classic feats
  In many a marble palace "cined"
    And puffed so oft in halfpenny sheets,

  Shall come revulsion, faintly stirred
    By Phoebus' and the Muses' laugh,
  Against the foul sins of a word
    Like spectodrome or vitagraph.

  Youth shall draw learning from the spring
    Pierian, and be taught to know
  The clustered verbal shames that cling
    About the moving picture show,

  Till at the last shall dawn a bright,
    A long-to-be-remembered day,
  When porticos of fanes of light
    Shall print Kinema with a K.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "H.M.S. Cumberland.

    Geneva, Tuesday.

    The Municipality to-day gave a luncheon in honour of the
    officers and cadets of the training ship Cumberland.--Reuter."

    _Naval and Military Record._

Another record for WINSTON. He alone could succeed in getting _H.M.S.
Cumberland_ to Geneva.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Widcombe Manor, Bath, in which Fielding is said to have written
    'Tom Jones,' is to come under the hammer shortly. It is one of
    the smaller houses erected by Indigo Jones."

    _Manchester Evening News._

It was, of course, the influence of his ancestor Indigo which so tinged
certain episodes in _Tom's_ career.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BAZAAR CUSHION.

"Ha! Someone has been sitting on it," cried Father William, snatching a
flattened object off the piano-stool in high irritation. "It's
abominable, you know," turning to me. "There are any number of cushions.
The house is stuffed with cushions. Why people should always pounce upon
this one and manhandle it in this way"--He put it on the table and began
punching and squeezing and puffing and smoothing it till it had expanded
to its full extent. Then he flicked the dust off it with his
handkerchief. "I'll put it back in its box under the sofa," he said. "I
can't understand how it ever got out."

He dropped into an armchair and instantly recovered his equanimity.

"And why should they spare that one?" I asked.

"That," said the old man solemnly, "is my bazaar cushion."

"I thought it looked as if it had escaped from a bazaar," said I.

"It came back only last night," he went on. "Are you a judge of
cushions? How do you like it? Pretty nice piece of work, eh?"

"Yes," said I cautiously. "Looks to me pretty well put together and all
that; but it's rather--well, hideous, isn't it?"

"Yes, yes," said Father William. "I suppose it's the colour you object
to. I confess it's a bit of an eyesore. But of course it has to be like
that. It's a case of protective colouring, you know."

I didn't quite follow his line of thought and there was a short pause.
"You would hardly think to look at it," the old man went on at last,
"that that cushion has stood between me and all the trials and
persecutions incidental to bazaars for nearly half a century. Perhaps
the plague is not quite so bad as it was in the old days when I was in
my first City parish, but I must say they were particularly active last
summer. They have taken to holding them outside now, with Chinese
lanterns, so that there is no close season at all. I had the wit at the
very outset to see that the thing must be grappled with. They used to
badger me in two separate ways. I was always expected to send some sort
of contribution--and then I had to go and buy things. That was the worst
of it. I used to dive about, harassed and pursued, searching in vain for
the price of my freedom, always confronted by smoking-caps and
impossible needlework. It was a fearful ordeal."

"I know," said I, with sympathy. "I know all about it."

"But I found a way out, thanks to my cushion. I bought it at a Sale of
Work for Waifs and Strays nearly forty-seven years ago, and I think you
will agree with me that it is a fairly good cushion yet. Of course it
has been re-covered more than once. It was getting altogether too well
known in Streatham at one time. It used to be blue with horrid little
silver spangles."

"And how does it work?"

"It is beautifully simple. I am told that a bazaar is contemplated and
asked if I will assist. Very well, I send my cushion. That is quite good
enough; no one would expect me to do more. Then I go, on the appointed
day, buy the cushion, and walk out with an enormous parcel for all the
world to see that I have done my duty. Then it goes back in its box. The
only bazaars that I am unable to assist are those which occur (as they
sometimes do) when my cushion happens to be out."

"And is it never sold?"

"Well, _look_ at it!" said Father William. "Of course it had to be of
such a nature that there was no danger of its going off too quick. I
used always to go early on the first day to make sure. But since the
last time it was re-covered I have had more confidence in its staying
powers. I find there is no particular hurry."

"Do you put a price on it?" I asked.

"Oh, no. I don't like to do that. That might put me in an awkward
position if it came out. But I find it fairly exciting on each occasion
to discover what I shall have to pay for it. It is generally more
expensive now than it used to be in the old days. I suppose it is the
rise in the cost of living. But I am seldom satisfied, either way. If it
is too cheap I naturally feel rather slighted, seeing that it was I who
sent it; and if it is too dear of course I am annoyed because I have to
buy it. And it fluctuates extraordinarily. I have more than once bought
it in at half-a-crown and come home burning with indignation, and, if
you will believe me, there was a blackguard at that big Sale of Work for
the Territorials in the autumn who had the effrontery to charge me a
guinea and a half. I was furious with him."

"I wish you would lend it to me, Father William," said I, after a pause.
"We are getting up a Jumble Sale in Little Sudbury."

"No," said Father William firmly, "no. Little Sudbury is barred. The
last time it was there on sale there was a very painful scene. I had
arrived rather late, I remember, and I found my cushion actually being
sold by auction along with a pair of worsted slippers and a woolly door
mat--in one lot. I thought it showed very poor taste. Besides, it is
already booked to appear six times in the next fortnight."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Dear Old Lady._ "You have a picture in the window marked
ten-and-six, by a Mr. Holbein. Could you tell me if that is an original
painting or merely a print?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

HAROLD NAPPING.

    "How stupid are the degenerate Tories who call this man [Mr.
    LLOYD GEORGE] a demagogue."--_Mr. BEGBIE on Mr. LLOYD GEORGE in
    "The Daily Chronicle," Feb. 5._

    "He [Mr. Lloyd George] was, if you like, a demagogue."--_Mr.
    BEGBIE on Mr. BALFOUR in "The Daily Chronicle," Feb. 7._

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke of SUTHERLAND, we see, values the diamond-studded gold watch
and chain, of which he has just been relieved by two desperate
Neapolitans, at £60. But the real question is, would the CHANCELLOR OF
THE EXCHEQUER accept that valuation?

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "Oh, Jockywock darling, you _must_ try and remember it's
a tricycle, not a bicycle."]

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN BOSS EATS BOSS.

According to the New York Correspondent of _The Daily Chronicle_, the
publication of a letter from Mr. CROKER, formerly the great Tammany
Chief, attacking his successor, Mr. MURPHY, has greatly strengthened the
campaign for purifying the Administration.

The recent meeting of the Statistical Society was rendered remarkable by
a letter from Mr. LLOYD GEORGE who, in regretting his inability to be
present, impressed upon the Society the need of upholding a vigorous and
fastidious accuracy in the use of facts and figures. "To gain a
momentary triumph over an antagonist in a public controversy by a
misquotation, even though only a fraction is involved, is, in my
opinion, an act which permanently disqualifies the offender from holding
any place of responsibility." These golden words, so the President
observed, ought to be engraved in indelible letters in every school in
the kingdom.

The dignified and telling rebuke recently addressed by Mr. BERNARD SHAW
to Mr. G. K. CHESTERTON, for undue indulgence in paradoxical gymnastics,
has given great satisfaction to the members of the Society for the
Promotion of Simplified Thought. As the President of the Society, Dr.
Pickering Phibbs, puts it, to have Mr. SHAW on the side of the angels is
enough to make the Powers of Darkness throw up the sponge.

Mr. KEIR HARDIE'S remarkable speech at Wolverhampton, when he declared
that it was the duty of Labour to uphold the British Constitution, has
profoundly impressed Mr. LARKIN and Mr. LANSBURY, who are of opinion
that the stability of the British Empire is now assured for at least one
hundred years.

The publication of a letter from Mr. ROOSEVELT, censuring President
WILSON for the prolixity and verbosity of his Presidential messages,
will, it is believed, lend a powerful impetus to the campaign on behalf
of brevity in public utterances.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "YOUNG LADY APPRENTICE WANTED--must be tall to learn all higher
    branches of the trade."--_Advt. in_ (_our favourite news-paper_)
    "_The Hairdressers Weekly Journal_."

You want to be tall to reach up to the higher branches.

       *       *       *       *       *
From an Aberdeen firm's advertisement:--

    Success comes in Cans, not in Can'ts.

    Once-a-year Clearance.

    To-day and Following Days.

    Wonder Values!

    Stimulants to Encourage Purchasers.

In the cans, we suppose.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOLF JUDGMENT.

(_To the Editor of "Punch."_)

Dear Sir,--As I am not at all satisfied with the recent decision of The
Rules of Golf Committee on the position created by a cow carrying off a
ball in her hoof, I appeal to you to arbitrate in the following dispute
between myself and my friend A (for I am too courteous to expose his
actual name).

During some very wild weather we made an arrangement, before starting
out, that, in the event of another storm coming on, the game should be
decided by the score existing at the moment of our consequent
retirement.

A was in receipt of six bisques. I holed out the first in five. A, who
was in well-deserved trouble all the way, holed out in ten. I remarked,
"One up!" to which A made no response. As we moved off to the second tee
there was a loud clap of thunder and the heavens burst over our heads. A
at once shouted above the tumult, "I take my six bisques and claim the
hole and the match." He then headed swiftly for the pavilion.

I cannot believe that he was justified in his claim. What do _you_
think?

Yours faithfully, FAIR PLAY.

_Editor's Decision._--The original arrangement was bad in Golf Law. The
match is therefore off, and each party must pay his own costs.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.

"Do you believe in magic?" Jack asked.

I hedged.

"Well, whether you do or not," he said, "I've got a rather rum story for
you."

"Go ahead," I replied.

"Very well," he said. "It was on last Tuesday morning that I looked in
at the watchmaker's to see if my watch was mended yet.

"It was hanging up in the glass case above the bench where he worked,
with my name on a little tab attached to the ring.

"'No,' the man said, 'it's not done--in fact, I'm still observing it.'

"'But it seems to be recording the time all right,' I said.

"'Yes,' he replied--'seems, but it isn't. That's mere chance. Do you
know, it's so fast that it's gained exactly twenty-four hours since you
brought it in. That's not to-day's time it's registering, but
to-morrow's. Leave it here another week, and I'll have got to the bottom
of the mystery.'

"At first I was disposed to do so; and then I had an idea.

"'No,' I said, 'I'll take it.'

"'But it's useless to you,' he replied.

"'I'll take it," I said. 'Just for fun.'

"He gave it me reluctantly and returned to his labours.

"I walked away from the shop very thoughtfully. Here was a curious state
of things. I and the rest of the world were living on Monday, February
9th, while my watch was busily recording, a little too hurriedly, the
progress of time on Tuesday, February 10th. To see into the future has
ever been man's dearest wish, and here was I in possession of a little
piece of machinery which actually was of the future and yet could tell
none of its secrets.

"But couldn't it? Couldn't I wrest one at least from it?--that was what
worried me.

"As I pondered, a newspaper boy passed me bearing the placard
'Selections for Lingfield,' and in a flash I bought one. My watch knew
who had won! How could I extract that information from it?"

Jack paused.

"Good heavens," I interpolated, "what an extraordinary situation!"

"You may well say so," he said. "You see, if only I could share its
knowledge, I should be rich for life; for it was now only a quarter to
eleven, and the first race was not till one-fifty, and there was plenty
of time to bet.

"But----

"I continued on my way deep in thought," Jack went on, "when whom should
I meet but Lisburne? Lisburne is the most ingenious man I know.

"'Come and advise me,' I said, and led him to a quiet corner.

"'It's jolly interesting,' he remarked, when I had finished, 'but of
course it's black arts, you know, and we've lost the key nowadays. Still
we must try.'

"We discussed the thing every way, in vain.

"Then suddenly he said, 'Look here, this watch represents to-morrow.
That means it is through the watch that we must work. Here, let's get
to-day's _Mail_ and read it through the watch-glass and see if there's
any difference?'

"We got it and did so.

"Lisburne removed the glass, found the racing news and read them through
it. 'Good heavens!' he said, and turned white. 'Here, read this with
your naked eye,' he said, pushing the paper before me.

"I read 'Saturday's racing results: 1.30, Midas 1, Blair Hampton 2,
Chessington 3,' and so on. 'Prices, Midas 6-4,' etc.

"'Those are Saturday's results,' he said, shaking with excitement. 'But
now read them through the watch-glass.'

"I did so, and they immediately changed to Monday's results. I was
reading to-morrow's paper!

"'Look at the prices,' he cried.

"'The prices! I hastily ran through them. They were splendid. "Captain
Farrell 10-1, Woodpark 10-1, Flitting Light 4-1." And these horses,
remember,' he said, 'are going to run this afternoon!'

"'What's the next thing to be done?' I gasped.

"'The bookies,' he replied.

"'I suppose they're fair game,' I said.

"'Of course,' he replied. 'The very fairest. But that's nothing to do
with you, anyhow. You're in possession of magic and must employ it. They
are the natural medium. How much can you muster?'

"'I'd risk anything I could scrape up,' I said. 'Say £750. And you?'

"'Oh, I'm broke,' he replied. 'How many bookies do you know?'

"'Three,' I said.

"'Well,' he replied, 'I know three more, and we can find men who know
others, and who will bet for us. Because we must plant this out warily,
you know, or they'll be suspicious.'

"'Will you take it in hand,' I asked, 'leaving me £150 for my own
commissioners?'

"'Of course,' he said, 'if you'll give me ten per cent.;' and having
copied out all the longer-priced winners through the watch-glass he
hurried off, promising to meet me at lunch.

"How to get through the intervening time was now the question. First I
went to the telegraph office, and then to the barber's to have my hair
cut. Forcibly to be kept in a chair was what I needed. The hair-cut took
only half-an-hour; so I was shaved; then I was shampooed; then I was
massaged; then I was manicured. I should have been pedicured, but the
clock mercifully said lunch-time.

"Lisburne was there in a state of fever. He had distributed the £600
among fourteen different commission agents.

"'Now we can have lunch,' he said, 'with easy minds.'

"Easy!

"'But suppose the whole thing is a fizzle,' I said. 'We've been far too
impetuous. Impulse was always my ruin.'

"'Oh no,' he said.

"'But if it's a fizzle,' I said, 'what about my £750?'

"'It won't be,' he replied. 'It's magic. Let's order something to eat.'

"He ate; that is the advantage of being on ten per cent. commission. I
couldn't."

Jack paused.

"Go on," I said. "Did the horses win?"

"Every one," he replied.

"At those prices?"

"Yes."

"Then you're frightfully rich?"

"No," he said.

"Why ever not? Surely the bookies haven't refused to pay?"

"Oh no."

"Then why aren't you rich?"

"Because I did the usual silly thing--I woke up."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Cafe Chantant.

    To the Editor of 'The Evening Post.'

    Sir,--In writing on the 4th February I omitted from the lists of
    names of two of our kind helpers at the Café Chantant, Messrs.
    Le Cheminant and the Victoria Dairy. Will you kindly allow me to
    do so now. Yours faithfully, M. P. PIPON."

    _"The Evening Post," Jersey._

Apparently the Editor wouldn't!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Yesterday a metal-gilt chandelier, 5ft. high, with branches for
    twenty-five lights, and numerous cut-glass pendants, fell at the
    one bid of half a guinea. The purchaser, who was sitting under
    it, seemed to be the most surprised person in the room."

    _Daily Telegraph._

If it fell on his head, we fear he must have been pained as well as
surprised.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "N.B.--Welsh rarebit is most nourishing, and, with a plate of
    soap, makes an excellent dinner." _Bombay Gazette._

The soap, however nourishing, should be disguised; otherwise your guests
will misunderstand you.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Stewardess._ "We are just nearing the harbour, Madam.
Would you like some hot water?"

_Passenger_ (_faintly_). "It doesn't matter, thank you; I'm only going
to relations."]

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS AND LIFE.

Preparations are already on foot for the great banquet to be given in
honour of the famous Russian novelist, Dr. Ladislas Plovskin, who is to
visit England in July. A representative committee has been formed, which
includes, amongst others, Sir GILBERT PARKER, Mr. CHARLES GARVICE, Mr.
SILAS HOCKING, Mr. C. K. SHORTER, Lord DUNSANY, Mr. JAMES DOUGLAS and
Mr. EDMUND GOSSE, who will take the chair at the banquet. There is a
peculiar appropriateness in this, for it was Mr. GOSSE who, some ten
years ago, first called attention to Plovskin in one of his masterly
studies. Since then, Plovskin has gained the Nobel Prize and become the
object of a special cult which has centres from Tomsk to Seattle, and
from Popocatapetl to Oshkosh.

The address which will be presented to the great Muscovite fictionist
has been written by Mr. JAMES DOUGLAS, and is a masterpiece of sensitive
and discriminating eulogy. Thus in one passage Mr. DOUGLAS says, "while
preserving your own individuality with miraculous independence, you have
summed up in your work all the inchoate influences to be found in HOMER,
DANTE, SHAKSPEARE, VOLTAIRE and VERLAINE, and carried them to a pitch of
divine effulgence only to be equalled in the godlike work of our
marvellous MASEFIELD."

Dr. Plovskin is no stranger to England, for he was an intimate friend of
the late EDWARD LEAR, who alludes to him under the name of Ploffskin in
one of his touching lyrics, and, as we have seen, he owes almost
everything to the generous appreciation of Mr. GOSSE, to whom he has
dedicated his last novel, which bears the fascinating title of _The Bad
Egg_. Portions of this, it is to be hoped, will be recited at the
banquet by the author's brother-in-law, Mr. Ossip Bobolinsky, Managing
Director of the Anglo-Manchurian Steam Tar Company.

       *       *       *       *       *

In smart intellectual circles Tagore Teas are now all the rage. At these
elegant and up-to-date entertainments China tea is absolutely
proscribed, the refreshments, solid and liquid, being exclusively of
Indian origin. After tea the guests cantillate passages from the prose
and poetry of the Great Indian Master to the accompaniment of gongs (the
Sanskrit _tum-tum_) and one-stringed Afghan jamboons, for the space of
two or three hours, when their engagements permit. Sometimes the reading
is varied by mystical dances of a slow and solemn character, but all
laughter, levity and exuberance are sedulously discountenanced, the aim
of all present being to attain an attitude of serene and complacent
ecstasy which enables them to invest utterances of the most perfect
ineptitude with a portentous and pontifical significance.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The advent to the episcopal bench of Dr. Russell Wakefield--the
    only Anglican Bishop on record to wear a moustache with a
    clean-shaven chin--does not appear to have aroused so much
    comment as the appointment of Dr. Ryle to the See of Liverpool
    in 1884. It was then said that the new prelate was the first
    Anglican Bishop to wear a beard for over 200 years."--_The Daily
    Chronicle._

Dr. RUSSELL WAKEFIELD, of course, has not worn his moustache for a
quarter of that time.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a Hong Kong tradesman's circular:--

    "EGGS! FRESH EGGS! AND TASTEFUL EGGS! FOR SALE.

    These eggs are exceedingly pure and fresh, and can be proved by
    looking at or breaking them. The yelk when boiled--smell sweet,
    the white--glistened, relished, and favourable to health as
    well.

    TRY our taseeful eggs as their quality bears.

    COME! COME! COME! AND TRY TO HAVE SOME."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _First Winter Sport_ (_looking at a magnificent view of
the Alps_). "Not bad, that."

_Second Winter Sport._ "Yes, it's all right; but you needn't rave about
it like a bally poet."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HEN.

  To-day it is not mine to sing
  A lay of love, a song of Spring;
  I tackle no uplifting thing
      Of arms and men;
  My muse is otherwise beguiled
  To gentler themes and measures mild;
  I sing of nature's artless child,
      The common hen.

  Little she has of lyric stuff;
  Her bows, I grant, are merely bluff,
  Her sternmost pile of windy fluff
      Would leave one cool;
  Yet never since the world was planned
  Was aught more lofty and more grand
  Regarded as a mother--and
      Such an old fool.

  In laying eggs is all her joy;
  Its rapture never seems to cloy;
  She knows no worthier employ
      In life than this,
  So to collect a fertile batch
  Still young, still fresh enough to hatch,
  And thus, by sterling effort, snatch
      A mother's bliss.

  But, though the futile one will lay
  (When she's in form) an egg per day,
  She always gives the fact away
      With loud acclaim
  That all the novel truth may know;
  Whereby the unsleeping human foe
  Derives a tip on where to go
      To get the same.

  It does not make her senses reel,
  This mystery, or dim her zeal,
  Till by degrees she seems to feel
      Her broken lot;
  She roams aloof, she grows depressed;
  And then, her broody sorrow guessed,
  Men lure her to a well-filled nest
      And bid her squat.

  And now behold her, warm and wide,
  Her rounded form well satisfied,
  Though even in her highest pride
      She has no luck;
  The offspring that she tends so well
  Are probably of alien shell;
  Indeed, for all that she can tell,
      They may be duck.

  Yes, one may grant that on the whole
  She would not thrill the poet soul;
  For, tho' she plays a decent _rôle_
      Beyond all doubt,
  Where mental qualities are lacked
  We find but little to attract;
  She does not make, in point of fact,
      The heart go out.

  But see her when some danger lies
  O'er her young brood, and, with wild eyes,
  Straight at the sudden foe she flies,
      Her full soul spurred
  To battle with the gnashing beak--
  A roaring tiger is more meek;
  And somehow one is bound to speak
      Well of the bird.

DUM-DUM.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the "Found" column in _The Standard_:--

    "Fox Skin Fur, on Hog's Back."

The last place where you would look for it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Natal first innings--Barnes, 5 wickets for 44 runs; Rolf, 4 for
    59; Woolley, 6 for 6; Douglas, 8 for 8; Hearne, none for 15;
    Bird, 1 for 9.--P.A. Foreign Special Telegram."

    _Glasgow Herald._

And yet Natal won.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MISSING WORD.

[Illustration: The "Premier" Parrot (_emerging from profound thought_).
"EX----EX----EX----EX----"

John Bull. "LOOK HERE, HERBERT, IF YOU'RE _GOING_ TO SAY 'EXCLUSION,'
FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE _SAY_ IT AND GET IT OVER!" [_Parrot relapses into
profound thought_.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

(Extracted from the Diary of Toby, M.P.)

_House of Commons, Tuesday, February_ 10.--Odd to find proceedings in
House to-day reminiscent of incident in a famous trial. Occasion
recognised as supremely momentous. Marks, within defined limit of time,
crisis of bitter controversy. Before Session closes fate of Ireland and
of the Ministry will be settled. PREMIER'S speech awaited with gravest
anxiety. Lobby thronged with animated groups. Before four o'clock--when
SPEAKER returned to Chair elate with consciousness of singular foresight
in having "for greater accuracy" possessed himself of copy of KING'S
Speech, presently read to expectant Members, most of whom heard it
delivered from the Throne two hours earlier--stream of humanity flooded
House, filling every seat and crowding Bar.

It was at preliminary gathering that case of _Bardell_ v. _Pickwick_ was
recalled. House awaiting arrival of Black Rod with summons to repair to
gilded Chamber. Message delivered, SPEAKER, escorted by SERJEANT-AT-ARMS
carrying Mace, marches off. From Treasury Bench and from Front Bench
opposite, Leader of House and Leader of Opposition simultaneously rise
and fall in. Other Ministers and ex-Ministers with mob of Members
complete procession.

When PREMIER and BONNER LAW met they heartily shook hands. CAPTAIN CRAIG
and MOORE (of Armagh) looked at each other in pained surprise.

[Illustration: _Mr. Pickwick_ (Captain Craig) regards with abhorrence
the exchange of salutations between _Serjeant Buzfuz_ (Mr. Asquith) and
his own counsel, _Serjeant Snubbin_ (Mr. Bonar Law).]

Here was the touch of nature that makes the whole world kin. When seated
in court awaiting opening of trial, _Mr. Pickwick_ observed a learned
serjeant-at-law make friendly salutation to his own counsel.

"Who's that red-faced man who said it was a fine morning, and nodded to
our counsel?" he whispered to his solicitor.

"Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz," was the reply. "He's opposed to us; he leads on
the other side."

_Mr. Pickwick_, it is recorded, regarded with great abhorrence the
cold-blooded villainy of a man who, as counsel for the opposite party,
presumed to tell _Mr. Serjeant Snubbin_, who was counsel for him, that
it was a fine morning.

Thus MOORE (of Armagh) and the COURAGEOUS CRAIG. Here were the
contending forces set in battle array, and the first thing they behold
is their Captain shaking hands with the commander of the enemy! An
ominous beginning, they agreed, well calculated to depress the spirits
of men who mean business.

It proved emblematical of what followed. Expected that stupendous
occasion would be marked by dramatic scenes, possibly by outbreak of
disorder. Nothing of that kind happened. Scene was indeed impressive by
reason of Chamber being crowded from floor to topmost bench of
Strangers' Gallery. Also, whilst PREMIER in unusually low-spoken,
comparatively halting voice, delivered critical passages of his speech,
there was movement marking intense interest. Multitude on floor of House
bent forward to catch the murmured syllables. Members crowding the side
galleries stood up in same anxious quest.

[Illustration: _Mr. John Burns_ (_holding list of the four new
appointments to Government Departments, including his own to the Board
of Trade_). "Excellent choices!--with perhaps the exception of Samuel,
Hobhouse and Masterman."]

Otherwise the accustomed signs and tokens of Parliamentary crisis were
conspicuously lacking. WALTER LONG, whose return to fighting-line after
bout of illness was warmly welcomed on both sides, pitched the opening
note a little low. Not fierce enough to gratify Ulster, he
correspondingly failed to irritate the Home Rulers.

As for PREMIER, his part, adroitly played, was to appear to be saying a
good deal without committing himself to definite pledges. Above all, not
to inflame controversy. He brought with him unusually copious notes, but
did not, as is his wont on such occasions, read from them the text of
especially weighty passages. Spoke slowly, occasionally in a murmur,
uttering his sentences as if deliberately weighing each word. Following
WALTER LONG, he was received with prolonged cheers, testifying to
personal popularity. When he sat down cheering was more polite than
effusive.

Irish Nationalists barely contributed even to this circumspect note of
approval. Throughout nearly an hour's speech they sat in ominous
silence, listening to passages in which they seemed to recognise
disposition on part of PREMIER towards mood of _Benedick_, who, when he
said he would die a bachelor, never thought he would live to be married.

Had not PREMIER within the last twelve months frequently declared he
would never consent to exclusion of Ulster from Home Rule Bill? And
wasn't he now showing signs of disposition to surrender?

_Business done._--Parliament reassembles. WALTER LONG, on behalf of
Opposition, moves amendment to Address, calling upon Government to
appeal to country before proceeding further with Home Rule Bill.

_Wednesday._--Interest of sitting centred in speeches of CARSON and JOHN
REDMOND. Former met with rousing reception from Opposition. Some
Ministerialists would have liked to join in the demonstration, not
because they share CARSON'S views or admire his policy, but because they
instinctively feel admiration for a man of commanding position who has
sacrificed personal and professional interests to what he regards as the
well-being of his country. Esteem increased by merit of his speech. Only
once did he lapse into tone and manner of personal attack familiar to
House when Ulster Members and Nationalists, hating each other for love
of their country, join in debate. Turning round to top bench below
Gangway, where JOHN REDMOND sat attentive, he said: "If you want Ulster,
come and take her, or come and win her. But you have never wanted her
affections; you have wanted her taxes."

