"If the fight go against me, great chieftain, be thou a guardian to my
thanes, my kinsmen and my trusty comrades; and send thou to Higelac
those treasures that thou gavest me, that he may know thy kindness to
me. Now will I earn glory for myself, or death shall take me away."

So saying, he plunged into the gloomy lake, at the bottom of which was
Grendel's mother. Very soon she perceived his approach, and rushing
forth, grappled with him and dragged him down to her den, where many
horrible sea-beasts joined in the fight against him. This den was so
fashioned that the water could not enter it, and it was lit by the
light of a fire that shone brightly in the midst of it.

And now Beowulf drew his sword and thrust at his terrible foe; but the
weapon could not injure her, and he was forced to fling it away and
trust in the powerful grip of his arms as he had done with Grendel.
Seizing the witch, he shook her till she sank down on the ground; but
she quickly rose again and requited him with a terrible hand-clutch,
which caused Beowulf to stagger and then fall. Throwing herself upon
him, she seized a dagger to strike him; but he wrenched himself free
and once more stood upright.

Then he suddenly perceived an ancient sword hanging upon the wall of
the den, and seized it as a last resource. Fierce and savage, but
well-nigh hopeless, he struck the monster heavily upon the neck with
it. Then, to his joy, the blade pierced right through her body and she
sank down dying.

[Illustration: BEOWULF FACE TO FACE WITH THE FIRE-BREATHING DRAGON]

At that moment the flames of the fire leapt up, throwing a
brilliant light over the den; and there against the wall Beowulf
beheld the dead body of Grendel lying on a couch. With one swinging
blow of the powerful sword he struck off his head as a trophy to carry
to Hrothgar.

But now a strange thing happened, for the blade of the sword began to
melt away even as ice melts, and soon nothing was left of it save the
hilt. Carrying this and Grendel's head, Beowulf now left the den and
swam upwards to the surface of the lake.

There the thanes met him with great rejoicings, and some quickly
helped him to undo his armor, while others prepared to carry the great
head of Grendel back to Heorot. It took four men to carry it, and
ghastly, though wonderful, was the sight of it.

And now once more the warriors assembled in Heorot, and Beowulf
recounted to Hrothgar the full tale of his adventure and presented to
him the hilt of the wonderful sword. Again the king thanked him from
the depth of his heart for his valiant deeds; and as before a fair
feast was prepared and the warriors made merry till night came and
they repaired to rest, certain this time of their safety.

Now on the morrow Beowulf and his nobles made ready to depart to their
own land; and when they were fully equipped they went to bid farewell
to Hrothgar. Then Beowulf spoke, saying:

"Now are we voyagers eager to return to our lord Higelac. We have been
right well and heartily entertained, O king, and if there is aught
further that I can ever do for thee, then I shall be ready for thy
service. If ever I hear that thy neighbors are again persecuting thee,
I will bring a thousand thanes to thy aid; and I know that Higelac
will uphold me in this."

"Dear are thy words to me, O Beowulf," Hrothgar made answer, "and
great is thy wisdom. If Fate should take away the life of Higelac, the
Geats could have no better king than thou; and hereafter there shall
never more be feuds between the Danes and the Geats, for thou by thy
great deeds hast made a lasting bond of friendship between them."

Then Hrothgar gave more gifts to Beowulf and bade him seek his beloved
people and afterwards come back again to visit him, for so dearly had
he grown to love him that he longed to see him again.

So the two embraced and bade each other farewell with great affection,
and then at last Beowulf went down to where his ship rode at anchor
and sailed away with his followers to his own country, taking with him
the many gifts that Hrothgar had made to him. And coming to Higelac's
court, he told him of his adventures, and having shown him the
treasure, gave it all up to him, so loyal and true was he. But Higelac
in return gave Beowulf a goodly sword and seven thousand pieces of
gold and a manor-house, also a princely seat for him to dwell in.
There Beowulf lived in peace, and not for many years was he called to
fresh adventures.


BEOWULF AND THE FIRE-DRAGON

After his return to the land of the Geats, Beowulf served Higelac
faithfully till the day of the king's death, which befell in an
expedition that he made to Friesland. Beowulf was with him on that
disastrous journey, and only with difficulty did he escape with his
life. But when he returned as a poor solitary fugitive to his people,
Hygd, Higelac's wife, offered him the kingdom and the king's
treasures, for she feared that her young son Heardred was not strong
enough to hold the throne of his fathers against invading foes.

Beowulf, however, would not accept the kingdom, but rather chose to
uphold Heardred among the people, giving him friendly counsel and
serving him faithfully and honorably.

But before very long Heardred was killed in battle, and then at last
Beowulf consented to become king of the Geats.

For fifty years he ruled well and wisely and his people prospered. But
at last trouble came in the ravages of a terrible dragon, and once
more Beowulf was called forth to a terrific combat.

For three hundred years this dragon had kept watch over a hoard of
treasure on a mountain by the seashore in the country of the Geats.
The treasure had been hidden in a cave under the mountain by a band of
sea-robbers; and when the last of them was dead the dragon took
possession of the cave and of the treasure and kept fierce watch over
them.

But one day a poor man came to the spot while the dragon was fast
asleep and carried off part of the treasure to his master.

When the dragon awoke he soon discovered the man's footprints, and on
examining the cave he found that part of the gold and splendid jewels
had disappeared. In wrathful and savage mood he sought all round the
mountain for the robber, but could find no one.

So when evening came he went forth eager for revenge, and throwing out
flashes of fire in every direction, he began to set fire to all the
land. Beowulf's own princely manor-house was burnt down and terrible
destruction was wrought on every hand, till day broke and the
fire-dragon returned to his den.

Great was Beowulf's grief at this dire misfortune, and eager was his
desire for vengeance. He scorned to seek the foe with a great host
behind him, nor did he dread the combat in any way, for he called to
mind his many feats of war, and especially his fight with Grendel.

So he quickly had fashioned a mighty battle-shield, made entirely of
iron, for he knew that the wooden one that he was wont to use would
be burnt up by the flames of the fire-dragon. Then he chose out eleven
of his earls, and together they set out for the mountain, led thither
by the man who had stolen the treasure.

When they came to the mouth of the cave Beowulf bade farewell to his
companions, for he was resolved to fight single-handed against the
foe.

"Many a fight have I fought in my youth," he said, "and now once more
will I, the guardian of my people, seek the combat. I would not bear
any sword or other weapon against the dragon if I thought that I could
grapple with him as I did with the monster Grendel. But I fear that I
shall not be able to approach so close to this foe, for he will send
forth hot, raging fire and venomous breath. Yet am I resolute in mood,
fearless and resolved not to yield one foot's-breadth to the monster.

"Tarry ye here on the hill, my warriors, and watch which of us two
will survive the deadly combat, for this is no enterprise for you. I
only can attempt it, because such great strength has been given to me.
Therefore I will do battle alone and will either slay the dragon and
win the treasure for my people or fall in the fight, as destiny shall
appoint."

When he had spoken thus Beowulf strode forward to the fight, armed
with his iron shield, his sword and his dagger. A stone arch spanned
the mouth of the cave, and on one side a boiling stream, hot as though
with raging fires, rushed forth. Undaunted by it, Beowulf uttered a
shout to summon the dragon to the fight. Immediately a burning breath
from the monster came out of the rock, the earth rumbled and then the
dragon rushed forth to meet his fate.

Standing with his huge shield held well before him, Beowulf received
the attack and struck from beneath his shield at the monster's side.
But his blade failed him and turned aside, and the blow but served to
enrage the dragon, so that he darted forth such blasting rays of
deadly fire that Beowulf was well nigh overwhelmed and the fight went
hard with him.

Now his eleven chosen comrades could see the combat from where they
stood; and one of them, Beowulf's kinsman Wiglaf, was moved to great
sorrow at the sight of his lord's distress. At last he could bear it
no longer, but grasped his wooden shield and his sword and cried to
the other thanes:

"Remember how we promised our lord in the banquet-hall, when he gave
us our helmets and swords and battle-gear, that we would one day repay
him for his gifts. Now is the day come that our liege lord has need of
the strength of good warriors. We must go help him, even though he
thought to accomplish this mighty work alone, for we can never return
to our homes if we have not slain the enemy and saved our king's life.
Rather than live when he is dead, I will perish with him in this
deadly fire."

Then he rushed through the noisome smoke to his lord's side, crying:

"Dear Beowulf, take courage. Remember thy boast that thy valor shall
never fail thee in thy lifetime, and defend thyself now with all thy
might, and I will help thee."

But the other warriors were afraid to follow him, so that Beowulf and
Wiglaf stood alone to face the dragon.

As soon as the monster advanced upon them, Wiglaf's wooden shield was
burnt away by the flames, so that he was forced to take refuge behind
Beowulf's iron shield; and this time when Beowulf struck with his
sword, it was shivered to pieces. Then the dragon flung himself upon
him and caught him up in his arms, crushing him till he lay senseless
and covered with wounds.

But now Wiglaf showed his valor and strength, and smote the monster
with such mighty blows that at last the fire coming forth from him
began to abate somewhat. Then Beowulf came once more to his senses,
and drawing his deadly knife, struck with it from beneath; and at last
the force of the blows from the two noble kinsmen felled the fierce
fire-dragon and he sank down dead beside them.

But Beowulf's wounds were very great, and he knew that the joys of
life were ended for him and that death was very near. So while Wiglaf
with wonderful tenderness unfastened his helmet for him and refreshed
him with water, he spoke, saying:

"Though I am sick with mortal wounds, there is yet some comfort
remaining for me. For I have governed my people for fifty winters and
kept them safe from invading foes; yet have not sought out quarrels
nor led my kinsmen to dire slaughter when there was no need. Therefore
the Ruler of all men will not blame me when my life departs from my
body.

"And now go thou quickly, dear Wiglaf, to spy out the treasure within
the cave, so that I may see what wealth I have won for my people
before I die."

So Wiglaf went into the cave and there he saw many precious jewels,
old vessels, helmets, gold armlets and other treasures, which excelled
in beauty and number any that mankind has ever known. Moreover, high
above the treasure flapped a marvelous gilded standard, from which
came a ray of light which lit up all the cave.

Then Wiglaf seized as much as he could carry of the precious spoils,
and taking the standard also, hastened back to his lord, dreading lest
he should find him already dead.

Beowulf was very near his life's end, but when Wiglaf had again
revived him with water, he had strength to speak once more.

"Glad am I," he said, "that I have been able before my death to gain
so much for my people. But now I may no longer abide here. Bid the
gallant warriors burn my body on the headland here which juts into the
sea, and afterwards raise a huge mound on the same spot, that the
sailors who drive their vessels over the misty floods may call it
Beowulf's Mound."

Then the dauntless prince undid the golden collar from his neck and
gave it to Wiglaf with his helmet and coat of mail, saying:

"Thou art the last of all our race, for Fate has swept away all my
kindred save thee to their doom, and now I also must join them," and
with these words the aged king fell back dead.

Now as Wiglaf sat by his lord, grieving sorely at his death, the other
ten thanes who had shown themselves to be faithless and cowardly
approached with shame to his side. Then Wiglaf turned to them, crying
bitterly:

"Truly our liege lord flung away utterly in vain the battle-gear that
he gave ye. Little could he boast of his comrades when the hour of
need came. I myself was able to give him some succor in the fight, but
ye should have stood by him also to defend him. But now the giving of
treasure shall cease for ye and ye will be shamed and will lose your
land-right when the nobles learn of your inglorious deed. Death is
better for every earl than ignominious life."

After this Wiglaf summoned the other earls and told them of all that
had happened and of the mound that Beowulf wished them to build. Then
they gathered together at the mouth of the cave and gazed with tears
upon their lifeless lord and looked with awe upon the huge dragon as
it lay stiff in death beside its conqueror. Afterwards, led by Wiglaf,
seven chosen earls entered the cave and brought forth all the
treasure, while others busied themselves in preparing the funeral
pyre.

When all was ready and the huge pile of wood had been hung with
helmets, war-shields and bright coats of mail, as befitted the funeral
pyre of a noble warrior, the earls brought their beloved lord's body
to the spot and laid it on the wood. Then they kindled the fire and
stood by mourning and uttering sorrowful chants, while the smoke rose
up and the fire roared and the body was consumed away. Afterwards they
built a mound on the hill, making it high and broad so that it could
be seen from very far away. Ten days they spent in building it; and
because they desired to pay the highest of honors to Beowulf, they
buried in it the whole of the treasure that the dragon had guarded,
for no price was too heavy to pay as a token of their love for their
lord. So the treasure even now remains in the earth, as useless as it
was before.

When at last the mound was completed, the noble warriors gathered
together and rode around it, lamenting their king and singing the
praise of his valor and mighty deeds.

Thus mourned the people of the Geats for the fall of Beowulf, who of
all kings in the world was the mildest and kindest, the most gracious
to his people, and the most eager to win their praise.


THE GOOD KING ARTHUR


Probably every one knows the story of the great King Arthur who, the
legends say, ruled in Britain so many, many years ago and gathered
about him in his famous Round Table, knights of splendid courage,
tried and proven. So well loved was the story of Arthur in other
countries as well as in England that it was among the very first works
ever printed in Europe, and it was still welcomed centuries later when
the great English poet, Alfred Tennyson, told it in his _Idylls of the
King_.

The boy Arthur was really the son of King Uther Pendragon, but few
persons knew of his birth. Uther had given him into the care of the
enchanter Merlin, who had carried him to the castle of Sir Hector,[A]
an old friend of Uther's. Here the young prince lived as a child of
the house.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] This name is otherwise given as _Sir Ector_, and by Tennyson as
_Sir Anton_.

Now Merlin was a very wise man, and when King Uther died several years
later the noblemen asked his advice in choosing a new king.

"Gather together in St. Stephen's Church in London, on Christmas Day,"
was all the enchanter answered.

So the knights assembled, and when the mass was over and they passed
out into the churchyard, there they beheld a large block of stone,
upon which rested a heavy anvil. The blade of a jeweled sword was sunk
deeply into the anvil.

Wondering, the noblemen drew near. One of them discovered an
inscription upon the hilt which said that none but the man who could
draw out the sword should ever rule in Uther's place. One by one they
tried, but the sword was firmly imbedded. No one could draw it forth.

Arthur was only a baby at this time, but some years later Sir Hector
traveled up to London, bringing with him his own son, Sir Kay, and his
foster son, Arthur. Sir Kay had just reached manhood and was to take
part in his first tournament. Imagine his distress, therefore, when,
on arriving at the tourney ground, he discovered that he had forgotten
to bring his sword.

"I will fetch it for you," cried the young Arthur, anxious to be of
service.

He found the apartment of Sir Kay closed and locked; but he was
determined to get a sword for his brother, and remembering the huge
anvil he had seen in the churchyard, he hurried toward it. Grasping
the hilt of the projecting sword, he drew it out easily.

Happy over his good fortune, Arthur returned to the tourney ground and
gave the new sword to his foster brother. Sir Hector, who stood near,
recognized it.

"Where did you get that sword?" he asked.

"From the great anvil in the churchyard of St. Stephen's I drew it,"
was the answer.

But Sir Hector still doubted, and when the tournament was over, he and
all the principal nobles of the realm rode back to the churchyard.

Arthur replaced the sword in the anvil and stood aside while all
present tried to draw it forth. None succeeded. Then Arthur again
stepped up, grasped the hilt and pulled out the blade.

"The king, the king!" the people cried; for they knew that at last
they had found a worthy successor to the good King Uther.

So Arthur was crowned king and entered upon that wise and kingly rule
of which the praises have so often been sung.

Following are the stories of the coming and passing of Arthur as they
are related by Tennyson:


THE COMING OF ARTHUR

        Leodogran, the King of Cameliard,
      Had one fair daughter, and none other child;
      And she was fairest of all flesh on earth,
      Guinevere, and in her his one delight.

        For many a petty king ere Arthur came
      Ruled in this isle, and ever waging war
      Each upon other, wasted all the land;
      And still from time to time the heathen host
      Swarm'd overseas, and harried what was left.
      And so there grew great tracts of wilderness,
      Wherein the beast was ever more and more,
      But man was less and less, till Arthur came.
      For first Aurelius lived and fought and died,
      And after him King Uther fought and died,
      But either fail'd to make the kingdom one.
      And after these King Arthur for a space,
      And thro' the puissance of his Table Round,
      Drew all their petty princedoms under him,
      Their king and head, and made a realm, and reign'd.

        And thus the land of Cameliard was waste,
      Thick with wet woods, and many a beast therein,
      And none or few to scare or chase the beast;
      So that wild dog and wolf and boar and bear
      Came night and day, and rooted in the fields,
      And wallow'd in the gardens of the King.
      And ever and anon the wolf would steal
      The children and devour, but now and then,
      Her own brood lost or dead, lent her fierce teat
      To human sucklings; and the children housed
      In her foul den, there at their meat would growl,
      And mock their foster-mother on four feet,
      Till, straightened, they grew up to wolf-like men,
      Worse than the wolves. And King Leodogran
      Groan'd for the Roman legions here again,
      And Cæsar's eagle: then his brother king,
      Urien, assail'd him: last a heathen horde,
      Reddening the sun with smoke and earth with blood,
      And on the spike that split the mother's heart
      Spitting the child, brake on him, till, amazed,
      He knew not whither he should turn for aid.

        But--for he heard of Arthur newly crown'd,
      Tho' not without an uproar made by those
      Who cried, "He is not Uther's son"--the King
      Sent to him, saying, "Arise, and help us thou!
      For here between the man and beast we die."

        And Arthur yet had done no deed of arms,
      But heard the call, and came: and Guinevere
      Stood by the castle walls to watch him pass;
      But since he neither wore on helm or shield
      The golden symbol of his kinglihood,
      But rode a simple knight among his knights,
      And many of these in richer arms than he,
      She saw him not, or marked not, if she saw,
      One among many, tho' his face was bare.
      But Arthur, looking downward as he past,
      Felt the light of her eyes into his life
      Smite on the sudden, yet rode on, and pitch'd
      His tents beside the forest. Then he drave
      The heathen; after, slew the beast, and fell'd
      The forest, letting in the sun, and made
      Broad pathways for the hunter and the knight,
      And so return'd.

                    For while he lingered there,
      A doubt that ever smoulder'd in the hearts
      Of those great Lords and Barons of his realm
      Flash'd forth and into war: for most of these,
      Colleaguing with a score of petty kings,
      Made head against him, crying, "Who is he
      That he should rule us? who hath proven him
      King Uther's son? for lo! we look at him,
      And find nor face nor bearing, limbs nor voice,
      Are like to those of Uther whom we knew.
      This is the son of Gorloïs, not the King;
      This is the son of Anton, not the King."

        And Arthur, passing thence to battle, felt
      Travail, and throes and agonies of the life,
      Desiring to be join'd with Guinevere;
      And thinking as he rode, "Her father said
      That there between the man and beast they die.
      Shall I not lift her from this land of beasts
      Up to my throne, and side by side with me?
      What happiness to reign a lonely king,
      Vext--O ye stars that shudder over me,
      O earth that soundest hollow under me,
      Vext with waste dreams? for saving I be join'd
      To her that is the fairest under heaven,
      I seem as nothing in the mighty world,
      And cannot will my will, nor work my work
      Wholly, nor make myself in mine own realm
      Victor and lord. But were I join'd with her,
      Then might we live together as one life,
      And reigning with one will in everything
      Have power on this dark land to lighten it,
      And power on this dead world to make it live."

        Thereafter--as he speaks who tells the tale--
      When Arthur reach'd a field-of-battle bright
      With pitch'd pavilions of his foe, the world
      Was all so clear about him, that he saw
      The smallest rock far on the faintest hill,
      And even in high day the morning star.
      So when the King had set his banner broad,
      At once from either side, with trumpet-blast,
      And shouts, and clarions shrilling unto blood,
      The long-lanced battle let their horses run.
      And now the barons and the kings prevail'd,
      And now the King, as here and there that war
      Went swaying; but the Powers who walk the world
      Made lightnings and great thunders over him,
      And dazed all eyes, till Arthur by main might
      And mightier of his hands with every blow,
      And leading all his knighthood threw the kings
      Carádos, Urien, Cradlemont of Wales,
      Claudias, and Clariance of Northumberland,
      The King Brandagoras of Latangor,
      With Anguisant of Erin, Morganore,
      And Lot of Orkney. Then, before a voice
      As dreadful as the shout of one who sees
      To one who sins, and deems himself alone
      And all the world asleep, they swerved and brake
      Flying, and Arthur call'd to stay the brands
      That hack'd among the flyers, "Ho! they yield!"
      So like a painted battle the war stood
      Silenced, the living quiet as the dead,
      And in the heart of Arthur joy was lord.
      He laugh'd upon his warrior whom he loved
      And honor'd most. "Thou dost not doubt me King,
      So well thine arm hath wrought for me today."
      "Sir and my liege," he cried, "the fire of God
      Descends upon thee in the battle-field:
      I know thee for my King!" Whereat the two,
      For each had warded either in the fight,
      Sware on the field of death a deathless love.
      And Arthur said, "Man's word is God in man:
      Let chance what will, I trust thee to the death."

        Then quickly from the foughten field he sent
      Ulfius, and Brastias, and Bedivere,
      His new-made knights, to King Leodogran,
      Saying, "If I in aught have served thee well,
      Give me thy daughter Guinevere to wife."

        Whom when he heard, Leodogran in heart
      Debating--"How should I that am a king,
      However much he holp me at my need,
      Give my one daughter saving to a king,
      And a king's son?"--lifted his voice, and call'd
      A hoary man, his chamberlain, to whom
      He trusted all things, and of him required
      His counsel: "Knowest thou aught of Arthur's birth?"

        Then spake the hoary chamberlain and said,
      "Sir King, there be but two old men that know:
      And each is twice as old as I; and one
      Is Merlin, the wise man that ever served
      King Uther thro' his magic art; and one
      Is Merlin's master (so they call him) Bleys,
      Who taught him magic; but the scholar ran
      Before the master, and so far, that Bleys
      Laid magic by, and sat him down, and wrote
      All things and whatsoever Merlin did
      In one great annal-book, where after-years
      Will learn the secret of our Arthur's birth."

        To whom the King Leodogran replied,
      "O friend, had I been holpen half as well
      By this King Arthur as by thee today,
      Then beast and man had had their share of me:
      But summon here before us yet once more
      Ulfius, and Brastias, and Bedivere."

        Then, when they came before him, the King said,
      "I have seen the cuckoo chased by lesser fowl,
      And reason in the chase: but wherefore now
      Do these your lords stir up the heat of war,
      Some calling Arthur born of Gorloïs,
      Others of Anton? Tell me, ye yourselves,
      Hold ye this Arthur for King Uther's son?"

