"My singuler good Lord, uppon Thursdaye, at even, her Majistie, in her
coache, nere Islyngton, taking of the air, her Highnes was environed
with a nosmber of roogs. One Mr. Stone, a foteman, cam in all hast to
my Lord Maior, and after to me, and told us of the same. I dyd the same
nyght send warrants owt into the seyd quarters, and into Westminster and
the Duchie; and in the morning I went abrood my selff, and I tooke that
daye lxxiiij. roogs, whereof some were blynde, and yet great usurers,
and very rich; and the same daye, towards nyght, I sent Mr. Harrys and
Mr. Smithe, the Governors of Bridwell, and tooke all the names of the
roogs; and then sent theym from the Sessions Hall into Bridwell, where
they remayned that nyght. Uppon Twelff daye, in the forenoone, the
Master of the Rolls, my selff, and others, receyved a charge before my
Lords of the Counsell, as towching roogs and masterles men, and to have
a pryvie searche. The same daye, at after dyner (for I dyned at the
Rolls), I mett the Governors of Bridwell, and so that after nowne wee
examined all the seyd roogs, and gave them substanciall payment. And
the stronger wee bestowed on the myine and the lighters; the rest wee
dismyssed, with the promise of a dooble paye if we met with theym
agayne. Uppon Soundaye, being crastino of the Twelffth daye, I dyned
with Mr. Deane, of Westminster, where I conferred with hym touching
Westminster and the Duchie; and then I tooke order for Sowthwarke,
Lambeth, and Newyngton, from whence I receyved a shool of xl. roogs,
men and women, and above. I bestowed theym in Bridwell. I dyd the
same after nowne peruse Pooles (St. Paul's), where I tooke about xxii.
cloked roogs, that there used to kepe standing. I placed theym also in
Bridwell. The next mornyng, being Mundaye, the Mr of the Rolls and the
reste tooke order with the constables for a pryvie searche agaynst
Thursdaye, at nyght, and to have the offenders brought to the Sessions
Hall uppon Frydaye, in the mornyng, where wee the Justices shold mete.
And agaynst the same tyme, my Lo. Maior and I dyd the lyke in London and
Sowthwarke. The same after nowne, the Masters of Bridwell and I mett;
and after every man had been examined, eche one receyved his payment
according to his deserts; at whiche tyme the strongest were put to
worke, and the others dismissed into theyre countries. The same daye
the Mr of the Savoye was with us, and sayd he was sworne to lodge
'claudicantes, egrotantes, et peregrinantes;' and the next morning I
sent the constables of the Duchie to the Hospitall, and they brought
unto me at Bridwell, vj. tall fellowes, that were draymen unto bruers,
and were neither 'claudicantes, egrotantes, nor peregrinantes.' The
constables, if they might have had theyre owen wills, would have browght
us many moor. The master dyd wryte a very curtese letter unto us to
produce theym; and although he wrott charitably unto us, yet were they
all soundly paydd, and sent home to theyre masters. All Tewsdaye,
Weddensdaye, and Thursdaye, there cam in nosmbers of roogs: they were
rewarded all according to theyre deserts.--Uppon Frydaye mornyng, at the
Justice Hall, there were brought in above a C. lewd people taken in the
pryvie searche. The Mrs of Bridwell receyved theym, and immediately gave
theym punishment. This Satterdaye, after causes of consciens, herd by my
Lord Maior and me, I dyned and went to Polls (St. Paul's) and in other
places, as well within the libertes as elsewhere. I founde not one rooge
styuyng. Emongst all these thynges, I dyd note that wee had not of
London, Westm., nor Sowthwarke, nor yett Midd., nor Surr., above twelve,
and those we have taken order for. The resedew for the most were of
Wales, Salop, Cestr., Somerset, Barks, Oxforde, and Essex; and that few
or none of theym had been about London above iij. or iiij. mownthes.
I did note also that wee mett not agayne with any, in all our searches,
that had receyved punishment. The chieff nurserie of all these evill
people is the Savoye, and the brick-kilnes near Islyngton. As for the
brick-kilnes, we will take suche order that they shall be reformed; and
I trust, by yr. good Lordship's help, the Savoye shall be amended; for
surelie, as by experiens I fynd it, the same place, as it is used, is
not converted to a good use or purpose. And this shall suffice for
roogs."--W.G.C.

    [5] See the Engraving, vol. xviii. p. 337 of _The Mirror._


       *       *       *       *       *


POVERTY OF KINGS, AND THE BRITISH CROWN PAWNED.

As to increasing wealth by war, that has never yet happened to this
nation; and, I believe, rarely to any country. Our former kings most
engaged in war were always poor, and sometimes excessively so. Edward
III. pawned his jewels to pay foreign forces; and _magnam coronam
Angliae_, his imperial crown, three several times--once abroad, and
twice to Sir John Wosenham, his banker, in whose custody the crown
remained no less than eight years. The Black Prince, as Walsingham
informs us, was constrained to pledge his plate. Henry V., with all his
conquests, pawned his crown, and the table and stools of silver which he
had from Spain. Queen Elizabeth is known to have sold her very jewels.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *


HEAD-DRESS OF THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY, IN ENGLAND.


In Wickliffe's _Commentaries upon the Ten Commandments_, in the
midst of a moral exhortation, he manages, by a few bold touches, to give
us a picture of the fashionable head-dress of his day:--

"And let each woman beware, that neither by countenance, nor by array of
body nor of head, she stir any to covet her to sin. Not crooking
(curling) her hair, neither laying it up on high, nor the head arrayed
about with gold and precious stones; not seeking curious clothing, nor
of nice shape, showing herself to be seemly to fools. For all such
arrays of women St. Peter and St. Paul, by the Holy Ghost's teaching,
openly forbid."

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *


SALADS.


Oil for salads is mentioned in the Paston Letters, in 1466, in which
year Sir John Paston writes to his mother, that he has sent her "ii.
potts off oyl for salady's, whyche oyl was goode a myght be when he
delyv'yd yt, and schuld be goode at the reseyving yff itt was not
mishandled nor miscarryd." This indicates that vegetables for the table
were then cultivated in England, although the common opinion is, that
most of our fruit and garden productions were destroyed during the civil
wars between the houses of York and Lancaster. A good salad, however,
had become so scarce some years afterwards, that Katharine, the queen of
Henry VIII., is said, on a particular occasion, to have sent to the
continent to procure one.

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *


ADVERTISEMENT OF THE OPENING OF THE LONDON COFFEE HOUSE, UPWARDS OF A
CENTURY AGO.

"May, 1731.

"Whereas it is customary for Coffee Houses and other Public Houses to
take 8_s._ for a quart of Arrack, and 6_s._ for a quart of Brandy or
Rum, made into Punch;

_This is to give Notice_,

That James Ashley has opened, on Ludgate Hill, the London Coffee House,
Punch House, Dorchester Beer and Welsh Ale Warehouse, where the finest
and best old Arrack, Rum, and French Brandy is made into Punch, with the
other of the finest ingredients--viz.:

"A quart of Arrack made into Punch for six shillings; and so in
proportion to the smallest quantity, which is half-a-quartern for
fourpence halfpenny.

"A quart of Rum or Brandy made into Punch for four shillings; and so in
proportion to the smallest quantity, which is half-a-quartern for
threepence; and Gentlemen may have it as soon made as a gill of wine can
be drawn."

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *


SIR WILLIAM JONES'S PLAN OF STUDY.


Some idea of the acquirements of the resolute industry with which Jones
pursued his studies may be formed from the following memorandum:--

"Resolved to learn no more _rudiments_ of any kind, but to perfect
myself in--first, twelve languages, as the _means_ of acquiring
accurate knowledge of

  I. History.
  1. Man 2. Nature.

  II. Arts.
  1. Rhetoric. 2. Poetry. 3. Painting. 4. Music.

  III. Sciences.
  1. Law. 2. Mathematics. 3. Dialectics.


"N.B. Every species of human knowledge may be reduced to one or other of
these divisions. Even _law_ belongs partly to the history of man,
partly as a science to dialectics. The twelve languages are Greek,
Latin, Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Hebrew, Arabic, Persian,
Turkish, German, English.--1780."

       *       *       *       *       *


SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *


SAILING UP THE ESSEQUIBO.

_By Captain J.E. Alexander, H.P., late 16th Lancers, M.R.G.S., &c._


My purpose was now to proceed up the noble Essequibo river towards
the El Dorado of Sir Walter Raleigh, and view the mighty forests of
the interior, and the varied and beautiful tribes by which they are
inhabited. Our residence on the island of Wakenaam had been truly
a tropical one. During the night, the tree frogs, crickets,
razor-grinders, reptiles, and insects of every kind, kept up a continued
concert. At sunrise, when the flowers unfolded themselves, the humming
birds, with the metallic lustre glittering on their wings, passed
rapidly from blossom to blossom. The bright yellow and black
mocking-birds flew from their pendant nests, accompanied by their
neighbours, the wild bees, which construct their earthen hives on the
same tree. The continued rains had driven the snakes from their holes,
and on the path were seen the bush-master (cona-couchi) unrivalled for
its brilliant colours, and the deadly nature of its poison; and the
labari equally poisonous, which erects its scales in a frightful manner
when irritated. The rattlesnake was also to be met with, and harmless
tree snakes of many species. Under the river's bank lay enormous caymen
or alligators,--one lately killed measured twenty-two feet. Wild deer
and the peccari hog were seen in the glades in the centre of the island;
and the jaguar and cougour (the American leopard and lion) occasionally
swam over from the main land.

We sailed up the Essequibo for a hundred miles in a small schooner of
thirty tons, and occasionally took to canoes or coorials to visit the
creeks. We then went up a part of the Mazaroony river, and saw also the
unexplored Coioony: these three rivers join their waters about one
hundred miles from the mouth of the Essequibo. In sailing or paddling up
the stream, the breadth is so great, and the wooded islands so numerous,
that it appears as if we navigated a large lake. The Dutch in former
times had cotton, indigo, and cocoa estates up the Essequibo, beyond
their capital Kykoveral, on an island at the forks or junction of the
three rivers. Now, beyond the islands at the mouth of the Essequibo
there are no estates, and the mighty forest has obliterated all traces
of former cultivation. Solitude and silence are on either hand, not a
vestige of the dwellings of the Hollanders being to be seen; and only
occasionally in struggling through the entangled brushwood one stumbles
over a marble tombstone brought from the shores of the Zuyderzee.

At every turn of the river we discovered objects of great interest.
The dense and nearly impenetrable forest itself occupied our chief
attention; magnificent trees, altogether new to us, were anchored to
the ground by bush-rope, convolvuli, and parasitical plants of every
variety. The flowers of these cause the woods to appear as if hung with
garlands. Pre-eminent above the others was the towering and majestic
Mora, its trunk spread out into buttresses; on its top would be seen
the king of the vultures expanding his immense wings to dry after the
dews of night. The very peculiar and romantic cry of the bell-bird, or
campanero, would be heard at intervals; it is white, about the size of a
pigeon, with a leathery excrescence on its forehead, and the sound which
it produces in the lone woods is like that of a convent-bell tolling.

A crash of the reeds and brushwood on the river's bank would be followed
by a tapir, the western elephant, coming down to drink and to roll
himself in the mud; and the manati or river-cow would lift its black
head and small piercing eye above the water to graze on the leaves of
the coridore tree. They are shot from a stage fixed in the water, with
branches of their favourite food hanging from it; one of twenty-two cwt.
was killed not long ago. High up the river, where the alluvium of the
estuary is changed for white sandstone, with occasionally black oxide of
manganese, the fish are of delicious flavour; among others, the pacoo,
near the Falls or Rapids, which is flat, twenty inches long, and weighs
four pounds; it feeds on the seed of the _arum arborescens_, in
devouring which the Indians shoot it with their arrows: of similar genus
are the cartuback, waboory, and amah.

The most remarkable fish of these rivers are, the _peri_ or
_omah_, two feet long; its teeth and jaws are so strong, that it
cracks the shells of most nuts to feed on their kernels, and is most
voracious; the Indians say that it snaps off the breasts of women, and
emasculates men. Also the genus _silurus_, the young of which swim
in a shoal of one hundred and fifty over the head of the mother, who, on
the approach of danger, opens her mouth, and thus saves her progeny;
with the _loricaria calicthys_, or _assa_, which constructs a
nest on the surface of pools from the blades of grass floating about,
and in this deposits its spawn which is hatched by the sun. In the dry
season this remarkable fish has been dug out of the ground, for it
burrows in the rains owing to the strength and power of the spine; in
the gill-fin and body it is covered with strong plates, and far below
the surface finds moisture to keep it alive. The _electric eel_ is
also an inhabitant of these waters, and has sometimes nearly proved
fatal to the strongest swimmer. If sent to England in tubs, the wood
and iron act as conductors, and keep the fish in a continued state of
exhaustion, causing, eventually, death: an earthenware jar is the vessel
in which to keep it in health.

(_To be concluded in our next._)

       *       *       *       *       *


FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *


CROSSES.[6]

[Illustration: Neville's Cross.]

We resume the illustration of these curious structures with two
specimens of interesting architectural character, and memorable
association with our early history. The first is Neville's Cross,
at Beaurepaire (or Bear Park, as it is now called), about two miles
north-west from Durham. Here David II., King of Scots, encamped with his
army before the celebrated battle of Red Hills, or Neville's Cross, as
it was afterwards termed, from the above elegant stone cross, erected to
record the victory by Lord Ralph Neville. The English sovereign, Edward
III., had just achieved the glorious conquest of Crecy; and the Scottish
king judged this a fit opportunity for his invasion. However, "the great
northern barons of England, Percy and Neville, Musgrave, Scope, and
Hastings, assembled their forces in numbers sufficient to show that,
though the conqueror of Crecy, with his victorious army, was absent
in France, there were Englishmen enough left at home to protect the
frontiers of his kingdom from violation. The Archbishops of Canterbury
and York, the prelates of Durham, Carlisle, and Lincoln, sent their
retainers, and attended the rendezvous in person, to add religious
enthusiasm to the patriotic zeal of the barons. Ten thousand soldiers,
who had been sent over to Calais to reinforce Edward III.'s army, were
countermanded in this exigency, and added to the northern army.[7]"

The battle, which was fought October 17, 1346, lasted only three hours,
but was uncommonly destructive. The English archers, who were in front,
were at first thrown into confusion, and driven back; but being
reinforced by a body of horse, repulsed their opponents, and the
engagement soon became general. The Scottish army was entirely defeated,
and the king himself made prisoner; though previous to the fight he is
said to have regarded the English with contempt, and as a raw and
undisciplined host, by no means competent to resist the power of his
more hardy veterans.

"Amid repeated charges, and the most dispiriting slaughter by the
continuous discharge of the English arrows, David showed that he had the
courage, though not the talents, of his father (Robert Bruce). He was
twice severely wounded with arrows, but continued to encourage to the
last the few of his peers and officers who were still fighting around
him."[8] He scorned to ask quarter, and was taken alive with difficulty.
Rymer says, "The Scotch king, though he had two spears hanging in his
body, his leg desperately wounded, and being disarmed, his sword having
been beaten out of his hand, disdained captivity, and provoked the
English by opprobrious language to kill him. When John Copeland, who was
governor of Roxborough Castle, advised him to yield, he struck him on
the face with his gauntlet so fiercely, that he knocked out two of his
teeth. Copeland conveyed him out of the field as his prisoner. Upon
Copeland's refusing to deliver up his royal captive to the queen
(Philippa), who stayed at Newcastle during the battle, the king sent for
him to Calais, where he excused his refusal so handsomely, that the king
sent him back with a reward of 500_l._ a year in lands, where he
himself should choose it, near his own dwelling, and made him a knight
banneret."[9]

Hume states Philippa to have assembled a body of little more than 12,000
men, and to have rode through the ranks of her army, exhorting every man
to do his duty, and to take revenge on these barbarous ravagers. "Nor
could she be persuaded to leave the field till the armies were on the
point of engaging. The Scots have often been unfortunate in the great
pitched battles which they have fought with the English: even though
they commonly declined such engagements where the superiority of numbers
was not on their side; but never did they receive a more fatal blow than
the present. They were broken and chased off the field: fifteen thousand
of them, some historians say twenty thousand, were slain; among whom
were Edward Keith, Earl Mareschal, and Sir Thomas Charteris, Chancellor:
and the king himself was taken prisoner, with the Earls of Sutherland,
Fife, Monteith, Carrick, Lord Douglas, and many other noblemen." The
captive king was conveyed to London, and afterwards in solemn procession
to the Tower, attended by a guard of 20,000 men, and all the city
companies in complete pageantry; while "Philippa crossed the sea at
Dover, and was received in the English camp before Calais, with all the
triumph due to her rank, her merit, and her success." These indeed were
bright days of chivalry and gallantry.

"The ground whereon the battle was fought," say the topographers of the
county,[10] "is about one mile west from Durham; it is hilly, and in some
parts very steep, particularly towards the river. Near it, in a deep
vale, is a small mount, or hillock, called the _Maiden's Bower_, on
which the holy Corporex Cloth, wherewith St. Cuthbert covered the
chalice when he used to say mass, was displayed on the point of a spear,
by the monks of Durham, who, when the victory was obtained, gave notice
by signal to their brethren stationed on the great tower of the
Cathedral, who immediately proclaimed it to the inhabitants of the city,
by singing Te Deum. From that period the victory was annually
commemorated in a similar manner by the choristers, till the occurrence
of the Civil Wars, when the custom was discontinued; but again revived
on the Restoration," and observed till nearly the close of the last
century.

The site of the Cross is by the road-side: it was defaced and broken
down in the year 1589. Its pristine beauty is thus minutely described in
Davis's _Rights and Monuments_: "On the west side of the city of
Durham, where two roads pass each other, a most famous and elegant cross
of stone work was erected to the honour of God, &c. at the sole cost of
Ralph, Lord Neville, which cross had seven steps about it, every way
squared to the socket wherein the stalk of the cross stood, which socket
was fastened to a large square stone; the sole, or bottom stone being of
a great thickness, viz. a yard and a half every way: this stone was the
eighth step. The stalk of the cross was in length three yards and a half
up to the boss, having eight sides all of one piece; from the socket it
was fixed into the boss above, into which boss the stalk was deeply
soldered with lead. In the midst of the stalk, in every second square,
was the Neville's cross; a saltire in a scutcheon, being Lord Neville's
arms, finely cut; and, at every corner of the socket, was a picture of
one of the four Evangelists, finely set forth and carved. The boss at
the top of the stalk was an octangular stone, finely cut and bordered,
and most curiously wrought; and in every square of the nether side
thereof was Neville's Cross, in one square, and the bull's head in the
next, so in the same reciprocal order about the boss. On the top of the
boss was a stalk of stone, (being a cross a little higher than the
rest,) whereon was cut, on both sides of the stalk, the picture of our
Saviour Christ, crucified; the picture of the Blessed Virgin on one
side, and St. John the Evangelist on the other; both standing on the top
of the boss. All which pictures were most artificially wrought together,
and finely carved out of one entire stone; some parts thereof, though
carved work, both on the east and west sides, with a cover of stone
likewise over their heads, being all most finely and curiously wrought
together out of the same hollow stone, which cover had a covering of
lead."

[Illustration: (_Percy's Cross_.)]

The second specimen (_see the Cut_) stands by the side of the
highway over Hedgeley Moor, in the adjoining county of Northumberland.
This Cross is a record of the War of the Roses. Here, in one of the
skirmishes preliminary to the celebrated victory at Hexham (May 12,
1464), Sir Ralph Percy was slain, by Lord Montacute, or Montague, brother
to the Earl of Warwick, and warden of the east marches between Scotland
and England. His dying words are stated to have been, "I have saved the
bird in my breast:" meaning his faith to his party. The memorial is a
square stone pillar, embossed with the arms of Percy and Lucy: they are
nearly effaced by time, though the personal valour of the hero is
written in the less perishable page of history.

The Nevilles are distinguished personages in the pages of the historians
of the North. In Durham they have left a lasting memorial of their
magnificence in Raby Castle, the principal founder of which was John de
Neville, Earl of Westmoreland; who, in 1379, obtained a license to
castellate his manor of Raby; though a part of the structure appears to
have been of more ancient date. Leland speaks of it in his time as "the
largest castle of lodgings in all the north country." It remains to this
day the most perfect castellated mansion, or, more strictly, castle, in
the kingdom, and its "_hall_" eclipses even the chivalrous
splendour of Windsor: here 700 knights, who held of the Nevilles, are
said to have been entertained at one time. The whole establishment is
maintained with much of the hospitable glories of the olden time by the
present distinguished possessor of Raby, the Marquess of Cleveland.

    [6] See also pages 113 and 329 of the present volume.

    [7] Hist. Scot. By Sir W. Scott, Bt., vol. i, p. 197.

    [8] Ibid. p. 199.

    [9] Faedera, tom. v. p. 542.

    [10] Messrs Britton and Brayley--Beauties of England and Wales,
         vol. v. p. 199.


       *       *       *       *       *


WINTER EXHIBITION OF PICTURES, AT THE SUFFOLK-STREET GALLERY.

(_Concluded from page_ 231.)


144. Landscape and Figures. The first by _Gainsborough_; the latter
by _Morland_.

145. The Body of Harold discovered by Swanachal and two Monks, the
morning after the Battle of Hastings. _A.J. Woolmer._ A picture of
some, and not undeserved, distinction in a previous exhibition.

150. Mr. King and Mrs. Jordan in the "Country Girl." _R. Smirke,
R.A._ The drawing is easy and natural, but the colouring appears to
us deficient in tone and breadth.

153. View of the River Severn near the New Passage House.
_Nasmyth._ A delightful scene in what we may call the artist's
best, or _crisp_ style.

157. Puppy and Frog. _E. Landseer, R.A._ In the most vigorous style
of our best animal painter.

163. A State Quarry. _De Loutherbourg._

165--167. Portraits of Worlidge and Mortimer. Painted by themselves.

172. Villa of Maecenas. One of _Wilson's_ most celebrated
compositions, of classic fame.

181. Master's Out, "The Disappointed Dinner Party." _R.W. Buss._ A
scene of cockney mortification humorously treated.--An unlucky Londoner
and his tawdrily-dressed wife, appeared to have toiled up the hill, with
their family of four children, to a friend's cottage, the door of which
is opened by an old housekeeper, with "Master's out," while the host
himself is peeping over the parlour window-blind at the disappointment
of his would-be visitors. The annoyance of the husband at the
inhospitable answer, and the fatigue of his fine wife, are cleverly
managed; while the mischievous pranks of the urchin family among the
borders of the flower-garden remind us of the pleasant "Inconveniences
of a Convenient Distance." The colouring is most objectionable; though
the flowers and fine clothes are very abundant.

194. Falls of Niagara. _Wilson._ A sublime picture of this terrific
wonder of the world.

196. Erzelin Bracciaferro musing over Meduna, slain by him for
disloyalty during his absence in the Holy Land. _Fuseli._ A
composition of touching melancholy, such as none but a master-mind could
approach.

199. The late R.W. Elliston, Esq. One of _Harlow's_ best portraits:
the likeness is admirable, and the tone well accords with Elliston's
unguent, supple expression.

204. Portrait of Dr. Wardrope. _Raeburn._ This is one of the
artist's finest productions: it is clever, manly, and vigorous--painting
to the life, without the flattering unction of varnished canvass. The
fine, broad, bold features of the sitter were excellently adapted to the
artist's peculiar powers.

205. Portrait of Thomson, the Poet. _Hogarth._ The well-known
picture. How fond poets of the last century were of their
_dishabille_ in portraits: they had their day as well as nightcaps.

217. Johnny Gilpin. _Stothard._ This lively composition is well
known, as it deserves to be; but it may not so well be remembered that
the popularity of John Gilpin was founded by a clever lecturer, who
recited the "tale in verse" as part of his entertainment. (_See page
367._) What would an audience of the present day say to such
puerility; though it would be certainly more rational than people
listening to a French play, or an Italian or German opera, not a line of
which they understand.

229. Portrait of R.B. Sheridan. The well-known picture, by
_Reynolds_, whence is engraved the Frontispiece to Moore's Life of
the Statesman and Dramatist. Here is the "man himsel," in the formal cut
blue dress-coat and white waistcoat of the last century. The face may
be accounted handsome: the cheeks are full, and, with the nose, are
rubicund--_Bacchi tincti_; the eyes are black and brilliantly
expressive;--and the visiter should remember that Sir Joshua Reynolds,
in painting this portrait, is said to have affirmed that their pupils
were larger than those of any human being he had ever met with. They
retained their beauty to the last, though the face did not, and the body
became bent. How much it is to be regretted that Sheridan with such fine
eyes had so little foresight. There is in the gallery a younger portrait
of him, in a stage or masquerade dress, which is unworthy of comparison
with the preceding.

231. Scene in Covent Garden Market. One of the best views of the old
place, by _Hogarth_; and one of the last sketches before the recent
improvements, will he found in _The Mirror_, vol. xiii. p. 121. By
the way, the pillar and ball, which stood in the centre of the square,
and are seen in the present picture, were long in the garden of John
Kemble, in Great Russell-street, Bloomshury.

243. Portrait of the late Mr. Holcroft. _Dawe._ In this early
performance of the artist, we in vain seek for the "best looks" of the
sitter: such as the painter threw into his portraits of crowned heads.

248. The Happy Marriage. An _unfinished_ picture by _Hogarth_;
yet how beautifully is some of the distant grouping made out;--what life
and reality too in the figures, and the whole composition, though seen,
as it were, through a mist.

249. Study of a Head from Nature, painted by lamp-light. _Harlow._
A curious vagary of genius.

258. Daughter of Sir Peter Lely. _Lely._ We take this to be the
oldest picture in the gallery. Lely has been dead upwards of a century
and a half.

263. One of _Lawrence's_ Portraits of himself.

286. Sir John Falstaff at Gad's Hill. _T. Stothard_, R.A. The
figure has not the fleshy rotundity of the Falstaff of Shakspeare; he is
like a half-stuffed actor in the part.

298. Portrait of the late King when Prince of Wales. _Lawrence._
The features at this period were remarkably handsome; and considering
the influence of pre-eminence in birth, the expression is not
over-tinged with _hauteur_. No persons have their portraits so
frequently painted as princes; and the artist who has the fortune to
paint them at all ages, as Lawrence did, must watch their personal
changes with reflective interest, though he may confine them to the
tablet of his memory. What an interval between the youthful vigour of
the above portrait of the Prince and the artist's last, fine
whole-length of the King, in dignified ease, on the sofa! Alas! lines
increase in our faces as they do in the imperfect maps of a
newly-discovered country.

313 and 228. Two Landscapes, by _Lawrence_, reminding us how
strongly the artist's genius was fettered by public taste in Kneller's
profitable glory of painting "the living."

In the _Water-colour Room_, are many interesting productions, and
some curiosities in their way. We have Paul Sandby and the quaintly
precise Capon beside Glover and Landseer--so that the drawings are as
motley as the paintings. Here also are Lawrence's inimitable chalk
portraits of his present Majesty and the Duke of Wellington, which show
us how much true genius can accomplish in a few lines.

       *       *       *       *       *


SCHOOL OF PAINTING AT THE BRITISH INSTITUTION.

(_From a Correspondent_.)


The present school of painting commenced on the 17th of September, and
the students, as usual, have made numerous attempts to copy the
inimitable examples of art which have been selected for their
improvement. The selections consist of specimens from the Italian,
Flemish, Dutch, and English schools, and afford ample variety, in style
and subject, for the different tastes of the students. We are sorry to
state, however, that only a very few copies can be selected as
possessing a fair resemblance to the superb originals. We proceed to
notice those who deserve the most praise:--

_Gainsborough's_ Milk Girl is a most happy production of the
pencil: the figure possesses great infantile beauty; and the landscape
is rural, and in perfect harmony with the subject. This work has been
cleverly copied by Messrs. Sargeant and Lilley in oil, and by Miss Fanny
Corbaux in water-colour.

An Advocate in his Study--_Ostade_: an exquisitely finished cabinet
picture. The expression in the advocate's face is excellent, and the
various objects in his study are in proper keeping with his calling. The
copy by Mr. Novice is excellent; and those of Messrs. Robson and Higham
display great ability, though they are not sufficiently finished.

A Sea-shore, attributed to _Backhuysen_, has been studied by Mr.
Dujardin.

Landscape--_Gaspar Poussin._ This great master admirably delineated
the grandeur of Italian scenery, and invariably chose to represent it
when the clouds forboded a storm, or when other accidental effects of
nature added to the sublimity of the occasion. We generally experience a
kind of awe while contemplating his works; and this feeling is excited
by the _chef d'oeuvre_ before us. Several students have attempted
it in oil; and Messrs. Musgrave, Burbank, and Taylor have copied it in
water-colour.

Messrs. Marks, Sargeant, and Foster deserve notice for their studies
from a Landscape with Figures, by _Waterloo_; and a charming
picture by _Albert Cuyp_, representing a wide champaign country,
with some well-executed figures in the foreground, has engaged the
talents of Messrs. Hilder, Child, and Stanley.

_Guido's_ Magdalen has been beautifully copied, on a small scale,
by Mr. Emmerson; and St. Martin dividing his Garments, by _Rubens_,
has met with successful imitators in the pencils of Messrs. Middleton
and Buss. These gentlemen's copies, however, are considerably smaller
than the original, which is of the dimensions of life.

The Water Mill, a brilliant little picture by _Ruysdael_, has
employed the pencils of several students;--among the most successful of
whom are Messrs. Stark, Lee, and Hilder.

View on the Grand Canal, Venice, by _Canaletti_: this is, perhaps,
the _ne plus ultra_ of the master, and is the property of that
distinguished patron of the fine arts--Lord Farnborough. Miss Dujardin
has produced the best copy: she has painted the buildings, boats, &c.,
with considerable accuracy, and has succeeded in imitating the
transparency of the water. Miss Cook and Mr. Fowler have also copied
this work.

Miss F. Corbaux (in water-colour), and Messrs. Sargeant, Robson,
Simpson, and Lilley (in oil), have well copied the Cupid by _Sir J.
Reynolds_; and Messrs. Fussel, Hilder, Sims, and Hoffland, deserve
praise for their copies from a Dutch Village, by _Ruysdael_. A Corn
Field, by the same master, appears to have been carefully studied by
Messrs. Lee and Novice.

To conclude: A spirited series of small views in Venice, by
_Guardi_, have been prettily imitated by Mr. Sargeant and Miss
Dujardin.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *


SCRAPS FROM THE DIARY OF A TRAVELLER.

_Rome_.

