At this meeting Prof. John R. Hawkins, for years a member of the
Executive Council, was elected President. A new Secretary-Treasurer,
Mr. S. W. Rutherford, was also elected. Mr. Rutherford is a well-known
business man in Washington. The Executive Council was reconstructed to
make it national. The following persons were added thereto: Bishop R.
A. Carter, R. R. Church, John W. Davis, Clement Richardson, and R. C.
Woods. Most of the former members of the Executive Council were
retained.

The Associated Publishers, Incorporated, Washington, D. C., have
brought out C. G. Woodson's _History of the Negro Church_. A review of
this work will appear in the next number. Another work, the _Negro in
Our History_, will be published some time in March.

_The Journal of Negro History_ has received for review Mason and
Furr's _With the Red Hand of France_, an account of a regiment of
Negro soldiers in France with the American Expeditionary Force.

A group of intelligent Negroes in North Carolina have formed a state
historical society to preserve the records of the race in that
commonwealth.

Dr. C. G. Woodson, the Director of the Association is now making a
study of slavery from the point of view of the slave himself. He has
sent out a searching questionnaire from which some results are being
obtained. He is also consulting local records and documents left by
slaves themselves and by those in a position to know their attitude
toward the institution. The cooperation of all interested in
unearthing the truth is earnestly solicited.

Professor A. A. Taylor, of the West Virginia Collegiate Institute, is
now making a scientific study of the influence of the Negro
congressmen on the legislation of Congress and on the general policy
of the country. He will appreciate any facts which may not be covered
by the public documents and books available.

Duffield and Company of Boston have published a new edition of
Benjamin Brawley's _The Negro in Literature and Art_.


PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE STUDY OF
NEGRO LIFE AND HISTORY, HELD AT LYNCHBURG, NOVEMBER 14 AND 15, 1921


The morning session of the annual meeting of the Association on the
14th at the Virginia Theological Seminary and College was called to
order by the Director, C. G. Woodson, who briefly traced the history
of the organization showing how it had gradually gained influence and
power and reached the position which it now occupies as a national
organization of concern to the people of both races throughout the
country. The Director then introduced Professor Charles H. Wesley of
Howard University, who delivered a most instructive and inspiring
address on the value of Negro History. After a few remarks by Dr. R.
C. Woods, a number of persons expressed their interest in the
Association by becoming members.

At two o'clock in the evening, the business session of the Association
was held. From the Executive Council, there was presented a
recommendation for the following amendments to the constitution,
which, after some discussion, were adopted by the Association:

     That Article IV be amended so as to change "twelve" to
     "fourteen," and to incorporate after the words "business
     committee" therein the words "to fix salaries of employees." This
     article would then read as follows:

     The Officers of this Association shall be a President, a
     Secretary-Treasurer, a Director and Editor, and an Executive
     Council, consisting of the three foregoing officers and fourteen
     other members elected by the Association. The Association shall
     have three trustees, who ex-officio shall be the President,
     Secretary-Treasurer, and the Director and Editor. It shall also
     appoint a Business Committee to fix salaries of employees, to
     certify bills, and to advise the Director and Editor in matters
     of administrative nature. These officers shall be elected by
     ballot through the mail or at each annual meeting of the
     Association.

     That Article V be amended so as to read as follows:

     The President shall preside at all meetings of the Association
     and of the Executive Council. He shall be ex-officio a trustee of
     the Association, a member of the Business Committee and a member
     of all standing committees. He shall perform such other duties as
     may be required of him from time to time by the Executive Council
     or by the Association.

     In case of the absence of the President or his inability to act,
     his duty shall be performed by the Secretary-Treasurer, who in
     that event shall exercise any of the above mentioned powers of
     the President. In case of the absence of both the President and
     the Secretary-Treasurer, the duty of the President shall be
     performed by the Director and Editor, who in that event shall
     exercise any of the above mentioned powers of the President.

     The Secretary-Treasurer shall attend all meetings and keep a full
     account of their proceedings in a book to be kept for that
     purpose. He shall through his Assistant keep a full and accurate
     account of receipts and disbursements of the Association in books
     belonging to the Association and shall deposit all monies and
     other valuable objects in the name of this Association in such
     depositories or safety vaults as may be designated by the
     Business Committee. He and his Assistant shall be required by the
     Executive Council to give bond as the Executive Council may
     designate. The Secretary-Treasurer shall be ex-officio a trustee
     of the Association, and a member of the Business Committee.

     The Director and Editor shall be the executive of the Association
     when it or the Executive Council is not in session. He shall
     devise plans for the collection of documents, direct the studies
     of members of the Association, and determine what matter shall be
     published in the Journal of Negro History. He shall employ a
     business manager and clerk, the last mentioned to serve also as
     the Assistant to the Secretary-Treasurer. He may employ other
     assistants for administrative work and upon the approval of the
     Executive Council may employ specialists to prosecute the
     research to be undertaken by the Association. The Director and
     Editor shall be ex-officio a trustee of the Association, and a
     member of all standing committees except the Business Committee.

     The Executive Council shall have charge of the general interests
     of the Association, including the election of members of the
     Association on recommendation of the Director, the calling of
     meetings, the collection and the disposition of funds.

The report of the Director was read and adopted as was also the report
of the Secretary-Treasurer, which was referred to an auditor.
Important extracts from these reports follow.

     The work of the Association has been successfully promoted. In
     some respects the Association has merely maintained its former
     status. Considered from another point of view, however, a decided
     advance in several ways has been noted. In the fields in which
     the work has advanced the progress has been so significant that
     the year through which the Association has just passed has been
     the most prosperous in its history.

     The subscription list of the Journal of Negro History does not
     show a large increase for the reason that it became necessary
     more than a year ago to raise the fee from one to two dollars a
     year and the current stringency in the money market has borne so
     heavily upon teachers, and students to whom this publication must
     appeal, that they have been unable to give it more liberal
     support. Among the subscribers and members, however, there has
     been manifested a deep interest in the matter published and a
     keen appreciation of its value in the uplift of the Negro.

     The membership of the Association for the same reason has about
     remained the same as that of last year. The interest of the
     members in the work and the value of the direction of the
     Association to them, however, have both unusually increased. This
     interest has culminated in the organization of clubs under the
     supervision of the Director, who through them has been able to
     give considerable stimulus to the work in remote parts of the
     country. Among the clubs thus organized should be mentioned those
     of San Antonio, Louisville, Chicago, Baltimore, Washington,
     Philadelphia, Brooklyn and New York. Classes doing the same work
     under the instruction of teachers have been formed in most of the
     accredited Negro secondary schools and colleges. The work of such
     classes at the West Virginia Collegiate Institute, the Virginia
     Theological Seminary and College, Hampton Institute, Morehouse
     College, Atlanta University, Paine College, Lincoln Institute in
     Missouri, and the Kentucky State Normal School has been helpful
     to the Association in its prosecution of the study of Negro life
     and history.

     With the cooperation of these friends and through travel the
     Director has been making a study of _Slavery from the Point of
     View of the Slave_. This has been done through questionnaires
     filled out by ex-slaves and former masters, through the
     collection of documents, and the study of local records. This
     study, however, is just beginning and will require much more time
     for completion. The Director expects to finish at an earlier date
     his studies of the _Free Negro_ and the _Development of the Negro
     in the Occupations_.

     The most significant achievement of the Association has been the
     success of the Director in increasing the income of the
     Association to about $12,000 a year. This substantial uplift has
     come in part from a large number of Negroes, who now more than
     ever appreciate the value of their records and the importance of
     popularizing the study thereof. A large number of Negroes have
     made small contributions and as many as forty have given the
     Association $25 each this year. Through the strong endorsement of
     Dr. J. F. Jameson and other noted historical scholars the
     Director secured from the Carnegie Corporation the much needed
     appropriation of $5,000 a year for each of the next five years.
     With this income the Association has paid all of its debts except
     that of the bonus of $1,200 a year promised the Director for
     1919-1920 and 1920-1921. Besides, the Association has been
     enabled to employ a Business Manager and to pay the Director a
     regular salary that as soon as practicable he may sever his
     connection with all work and devote all of his time to the
     prosecution of the study of Negro Life and History.

The details as to how the funds thus raised have been expended appear
in the following report of the Secretary-Treasurer:


                                             November 12, 1921.

     _The Association for the Study of Negro Life and History,
     Washington, D. C._

     _Gentlemen:_ I hereby submit to you a statement of the amount of
     money received and expended by the Association for the Study of
     Negro Life and History, Incorporated, from September 30, 1920, to
     November 12, 1921.


     RECEIPTS                     EXPENDITURES

     Subscriptions     $913.96    Printing and Stationery     $5,731.53
     Memberships        126.00    Petty Cash                     709.90
     Contributions    8,239.50    Stenographic Service         1,134.60
     Advertisements     255.15    Rent and Light                 438.61
     Rent and Light     198.61    Miscellaneous                   86.10
     Books               75.40    Salaries                     1,225.00
                                  Traveling Expenses              77.21
                      --------                                 --------
     Total           $9,808.62    Total                        $9402.95

     Balance on hand              Balance on hand November
     Sept. 30, 1920.     48.86    12, 1921                       454.53
                     ---------                                  -------
                     $9,857.48                                $9,857.48

                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                           Secretary-Treasurer.


Upon the recommendation of the committee on nominations the officers
of the Association were, in keeping with the custom of this body,
elected by a motion to the effect that the Acting Secretary be
instructed to cast the unanimous ballot of the Association, for those
recommended by the committee on nominations, that is, for John R.
Hawkins as President, for S. W. Rutherford as Secretary-Treasurer, for
C. G. Woodson as Director and Editor, and as members of the Executive
Council the three foregoing officers together with Julius Rosenwald,
George Foster Peabody, James H. Dillard, Bishop R. A. Carter, R. R.
Church, Albert Bushnell Hart, John W. Davis, Bishop John R. Hurst, A.
L. Jackson, Moorfield Storey, Bishop R. E. Jones, Channing H. Tobias,
Clement Richardson, and R. C. Woods.

The evening session of the 14th was held at the Eighth Street Baptist
Church where were assembled a considerable representation of the
members of the Association and a large number of persons seeking to
learn of the work and to profit by the discussion of the Association.
Dr. R. C. Woods, President of the Virginia Theological Seminary and
College, presided. The first speaker of the evening, Dr. W. H. Stokes
of Richmond, Virginia, delivered a well-prepared and instructive
address on the value of tradition. His aim was to encourage the Negro
race and other persons interested in its uplift to do more for the
preservation and study of its records. The next speaker of the evening
was Professor J. R. Hawkins, Financial Secretary of the African
Methodist Episcopal Church. He delivered a very forceful and informing
discourse on the history of the Negro Church. How the church has
figured in the life of the Negro; how it has been effective in
promoting the progress of the race; and what it is doing to-day to
present the case of the Negro to the world and offer him opportunities
in other fields were all emphasized throughout this address. Dr. R. T.
Kerlin, former Professor at the Virginia Military Institute, was then
introduced. He briefly spoke about the importance of acquainting the
white race with the achievements of the Negro, and showed that his
task was not, therefore, to appeal to the Negroes, themselves, but to
the white people, who too often misunderstand them.

The morning session of the 15th at the Virginia Theological Seminary
and College was called to order by the newly elected President, Prof.
John R. Hawkins. The Director, Dr. C. G. Woodson, was then introduced.
He showed how the Negro is a menace to the position of the white man
in trying to maintain racial superiority. The significant achievements
of the Negro in Africa and this country were passed in rapid review to
show how untenable this position of the white man is and how unlikely
it can continue in view of the fact that the Negro is accomplishing
more now than ever before in the history of the race. Professor John
R. Hawkins then delivered a brief address showing how the development
of the schools and the maintenance of the proper school spirit through
teachers and students can be made effective in the social uplift of
the race. President Trigg of Bennet College then followed with
impressive remarks expressing his interest in the cause and his
confidence in those who are now doing so much to preserve the records
of the Negro and to popularize the study of them throughout this
country and abroad.

There was no afternoon session of the Association except a brief
meeting of the Executive Council, to which the public was not invited.
The conference closed with the evening session at the Eighth Street
Baptist Church, where a large audience was addressed by Dr. I. E.
McDougle, of Sweet Briar College, Dr. E. Crooks, of Randolph-Macon
College, and Professor Bernard Tyrrell of the Virginia Theological
Seminary and College. Dr. McDougle briefly discussed Negro history as
a neglected field, showing that it is generally unexplored, and
introducing an abundance of material which may be discovered with
little effort. He spoke, moreover, of Negro History as a neglected
subject, giving statistical information as to the places where the
subject is now being taught and the manner in which such instruction
is offered. Dr. Crooks spoke for a few minutes on self-respect as a
means by which the race may develop power. He unfortunately, however,
drifted into a discussion of certain phases of the race problem and
disgusted his audience by advancing ideas with which, as he was
informed, Negroes cannot agree. Professor Tyrrell then delivered a
scholarly address on Negro ancestry and brought forward from his study
of ancient history and especially that of Africa, facts showing that
the Negro race has made a record of which it may well feel proud. He
explained, moreover, how historians since the early days have become
prejudiced against the proper treatment of the achievements of
Africans and have endeavored to convince the world that the record of
the race is not significant.

This meeting on the whole was a success, above and beyond that of any
other hitherto held. The attendance was large, the enthusiasm ran
higher, and the financial support secured far exceeded that of other
meetings. There was expressed a general interest in the plans for the
future prosecution of the work and the intention to give it more
support that it may be extended in all of its ramifications throughout
this country and even abroad.


THE JOURNAL

OF

NEGRO HISTORY

VOL. VII--APRIL, 1922--NO. 2


NEGRO CONGRESSMEN A GENERATION AFTER


The period of reconstruction which followed the Civil War presented to
the statesmen of that time three problems of unusual significance.
These were: what should be the status of the eleven Confederate
States; what should be done with the leaders of the Confederacy; and
finally, what should be the rôle to be played by the several millions
of freedmen? In the effort to deal effectively with these problems the
Thirty-ninth and Fortieth Congresses adopted a reconstruction policy
which provided for the readmission of the formerly rebellious States
to the Union, the imposition of political disabilities upon many
former Confederates, and the bestowal of citizenship and suffrage upon
the freedmen. Upon the enlarged electorate the reconstruction of the
States was undertaken.

