"I can't paint men," I objected.  "They are too massive and rugged
and ugly.  Their noses are big and hard and their bones show
through everywhere excepting when they are fat and then they are
disgusting.  Their eyes don't shine, their hair is never beautiful,
they have no dimples in their hands and elbows; you can't see their
mouths because of their moustaches, and generally it's no loss; and
their clothes are stiff and conventional with no colour, nor any
flowing lines to paint."

"I know where you keep your 'properties,' and I'll make myself a
mass of colour and flowing lines if you'll try me," Himself said
meekly.

"No, dear," I responded amiably.  "You are very nice, but you are
not a costume man, and I shudder to think what you would make of
yourself if I allowed you to visit my property-room.  If I ever
have to paint you (not for pleasure, but as a punishment), you
shall wear your everyday corduroys and I'll surround you with the
children; then you know perfectly well that the public will never
notice you at all."  Whereupon I went to my studio built on the top
of the long rambling New England shed and loved what I painted
yesterday so much that I went on with it, finding that I had said
to Himself almost all that I had in mind to say, about marriage as
an institution.


June 15, 19-.

We were finishing luncheon on the veranda with all out of doors to
give us appetite.  It was Buttercup Sunday, a yellow June one that
had been preceded by Pussy Willow Sunday, Dandelion Sunday, Apple
Blossom, Wild Iris, and Lilac Sunday, to be followed by Daisy and
Black-Eyed Susan and White Clematis and Goldenrod and Wild Aster
and Autumn Leaf Sundays.

Francie was walking over the green-sward with a bowl and spoon,
just as our Scottish men friends used to do with oat-meal at
breakfast time.  The Sally-baby was blowing bubbles in her milk,
and Himself and I were discussing a book lately received from
London.

Suddenly I saw Billy, who had wandered from the table, sitting on
the steps bending over a tiny bird's egg in his open hand.  I knew
that he must have taken it from some low-hung nest, but taken it in
innocence, for he looked at it with solicitude as an object of
tender and fragile beauty.  He had never given a thought to the
mother's days of patient brooding, nor that he was robbing the
summer world of one bird's flight and one bird's song.

"Did you hear the whippoorwills singing last night, Daddy?" I
asked.

"I did, indeed, and long before sunrise this morning.  There must
be a new family in our orchard, I think; but then we have coaxed
hundreds of birds our way this spring by our little houses, our
crumbs, and our drinking dishes."

"Yes, we have never had so many since we came here to live.  Look
at that little brown bird flying about in the tall apple-tree,
Francie; she seems to be in trouble."

"P'r'haps it's Mrs. Smiff's wenomous cat," exclaimed Francie,
running to look for a particularly voracious animal that lived
across the fields, but had been known to enter our bird-Eden.

"Hear this, Daddy; isn't it pretty?" I said, taking up the "Life of
Dorothy Grey."

Billy pricked up his ears, for he can never see a book opened
without running to join the circle, so eager he is not to lose a
precious word.

"The wren sang early this morning" (I read slowly).  "We talked
about it at breakfast and how many people there were who would not
be aware of it; and E. said, 'Fancy, if God came in and said:  "Did
you notice my wren?" and they were obliged to say they had not
known it was there!'"

Billy rose quietly and stole away behind the trees, returning in a
few moments, empty-handed, to stand by my side.

"Does God know how many eggs there are in a bird's nest, mother?"
he asked.

