 I seemed to have found in him
all those intellectual qualities which I had vainly expected to meet
with in an University. But there was one physical blemish that
threatened to neutralize all his excellence. "This is a fine, clever
fellow!" I said to myself, "but I can never bear his society; I shall
never be able to endure his voice; it would kill me. What a pity
it is!" I am very sensible of imperfections, and especially of
painful sounds--and the voice of the stranger was excruciating;
it was intolerably shrill, harsh and discordant; of the most cruel
intension--it was perpetual, and without any remission--it excoriated
the ears. He continued to discourse of chemistry, sometimes sitting,
sometimes standing before the fire, and sometimes pacing about the room;
and when one of the innumerable clocks that speak in various notes
during the day and the night at Oxford, proclaimed a quarter to seven,
he said suddenly that he must go to a lecture on mineralogy, and
declared enthusiastically that he expected to derive much pleasure and
instruction from it. I am ashamed to own that the cruel voice made me
hesitate for a moment; but it was impossible to omit so indispensable a
civility--I invited him to return to tea; he gladly assented, promised
that he would not be absent long, snatched his cap, hurried out of
the room, and I heard his footsteps, as he ran through the silent
quadrangle, and afterwards along the High-street. An hour soon elapsed,
whilst the table was cleared, and the tea was made, and I again heard
the footsteps of one running quickly. My guest suddenly burst into the
room, threw down his cap, and as he stood shivering and chafing his
hands over the fire, he declared how much he had been disappointed in
the lecture. Few persons attended; it was dull and languid, and he was
resolved never to go to another. "I went away, indeed," he added, with
an arch look and in a shrill whisper, coming close to me as he spoke--"I
went away, indeed, before the lecture was finished. I stole away; for it
was so stupid, and I was so cold, that my teeth chattered. The Professor
saw me, and appeared to be displeased. I thought I could have got out
without being perceived; but I struck my knee against a bench, and made
a noise, and he looked at me. I am determined that he shall never see
me again."

"What did the man talk about?

"About stones! about stones!" he answered, with a downcast look and in
a melancholy tone, as if about to say something excessively profound.
"About stones!--stones, stones, stones!--nothing but stones!--and so
drily. It was wonderfully tiresome--and stones are not interesting
things in themselves!"

_New Monthly Magazine._

       *       *       *       *       *


WAR SONG,

FOR THE ARMY TO BE SENT AGAINST THE EMPEROR OF CHINA.


  Come, tie on your bonnet, your shawl, and your boa!
    Each proud virgin amazon, onward with me!
  Come, rouse for the fight, all ye maids who adore[25]
    The flavour of Twankay, Souchong, or Bohea!

  Come, clatter the tea-cups, and brandish each spoon,
    Beat loudly the tea-tray, the kettle, and urn;
  No more for the lover or sweet honey-moon,
    But for Twankay and war let your soft bosoms burn!

  Shall a petitcoat savage--the horrible bore--
    Infringe on our rights, and deny us our tea?
  No, no! by the gown which my grandmother wore.
    We'll smother the wretch in a chest of Bohea!

  Come, launch, by brave maidens, each tea-chest canoe,
    And spread out your large Canton crapes to the air;
  The kettle sings muster-call--hark! the cats mew!
    "Young Hyson"'s the word, the "delight of the fair!"

  Great Twining a tea-wreath shall twine for us all--
    The fairest of females looks far more divine at tea;
  If we conquer, we'll drink twenty cups; if we fall,
    Why--_"nec possum vivere cum te, nec sine te."_

  Twenty cups! think of Johnson, when kind Mrs. Thrale
    Filled him fifty at least, and he wished they were bowls.
  With ardour like his, which among ye can fail?
    Come, Doctor, and kindle your thirst in our souls!

  Then onward, brave maidens, push off from the coast,
    For such brogueless tyrants we care not a pin;
  But do not forget, my fair tea-drinking host,
    A stout Witney blanket to toss the wretch in!

  Oh! the plunder of Pekin! what silks and what shawls!
    The Chinese, in spite of themselves, shall be free:
  For, we'll bombard the city with hot force-meat balls,
    And blow up their warriors with gunpowder tea!

  Then tie on your bonnet, your shawl, and your boa,
    And with war-cry of "Hyson-dust!" onward with me;
  Come, brandish your tea-spoons, ye maids who adore
    The flavour of Twankay, Souchong, or Bohea!

_Monthly Magazine._


    [25] We are aware that this rhyme is rather unusual; but we may
         parody the maxim of _Sir Lucius_--"When patriotism guides the
         pen, he must be a brute that would find fault with the rhyme."

       *       *       *       *       *


USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS.

       *       *       *       *       *


ECONOMIC HINTS.


_Box-wood as a substitute for Hops._--M. Du Petit Thouars lately
stated to the Philomathic Society of Paris, that more box-wood than hops
was employed in making almost all the beer brewed in Paris. Box-wood
contains a powerful sodorific principle with a bitter taste, which has
lately been separated, and is now known under the name of
Buxinia.--_Bull. Un._

_Receipt for making Grape Wine, used in 1819._--Water, 4-3/4
gallons, beer measure; grapes, 5 gallons, beer measure, crushed and
soaked in the water seven days; sugar, 17-1/2 lbs. at 10-3/4_d_.
The sugar came to 15_s_. 8-1/2_d_.; and the grapes to perhaps
5_s_. The cask in which it was made held exactly 6-3/4 gallons, of
beer measure, and produced 34 bottles of wine clear. A bottle of the
above wine, kept ten years, proved very good.

_Wine from the common Bramble._--Five measures of the ripe
fruit, with one of honey and six of water, boiled, strained, and left
to ferment, then boiled again, and put in casks to ferment, are said
to produce an excellent wine. In France the colour of wine is often
rendered darker by a mixture of blackberries with the grapes.--_Recueil
Industriel_.

_Receipt for making Tomato Sauce._--Take tomatoes when ripe, and
bake them till they become quite soft; then scoop them out with a
tea-spoon, and rub the pulp through a sieve. To the pulp put as much
Chile vinegar as will bring it to a proper thickness, with salt to your
taste. Add to every quart 1/2 oz. of garlic and 1 oz. of shallots, both
sliced very thin. Boil it one quarter of an hour; then strain, and take
out the garlic and shallots. After standing till quite cold, put the
sauce into stone bottles, and let it stand a few days before it is
corked up. If, when the bottles are open, the sauce should appear to be
in a fermenting state, put some more salt and boil it over again. The
sauce should be the thickness of rich cream when poured out, and is, in
my opinion, far superior to the famed Bengal chattny, to which it bears
considerable resemblance.

_Economical Fuel._--A good fire on a winter day, at a mere trifling
expense, is of importance to a poor man. One pennyworth of tar or rosin
water will saturate a tub of coals with triple its original quantity of
bitumen (the principle of heat and light), and, of course, render one
such tub of three times more value than it was when unsaturated.

Where there are extensive fir and pine woods which have been subjected
to the injurious practice of close pruning, the knots left will
frequently be found oozing out resin. This gardeners' labourers and
cottagers might collect, reduce to a fine powder, and mix up with small
coal, horse droppings, and clay, into fire-balls.--_Gardeners'
Mag._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.


  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

COPY OF A LETTER RECEIVED BY A
YOUNG LADY FROM A COUNTRY COUSIN.

"DEAR ELIZABETH,--I arrived a few months since in this over-grown
metropolis--Modern Babolon I believe they call it--more properly, I
should think, Gabble-on, for my head goes round like a whipping-top,
being kept in rotatory motion by all the discordant sounds in the
'Enraged Musician.' Having been but a short time in town, I have not had
the pleasure of seeing many of the metropolitan wonders. The following
places were visited by me lately:--The British Museum, my dear
girl--never saw such a collection of mutilated articles: statues, like
the boroughs in schedule B in the Reform Bill; manuscripts, in languages
scarcely understood, and such like curiosities. St. Paul's--a great
building--I dare say the Londoners are very proud of it: a fine
whispering gallery, where you may hear what is said at the most distant
part: no place for kissing--worse than a friend's parlour. Guildhall:
a very antique building, with two huge figures--to frighten little
children, I suppose. There was a fine feast: numbers of fine folks
in their Sunday clothes, whom I should suppose lived very queer at
home--perhaps upon tripe, for the victuals disappeared so fast. I had
almost forgot to mention the pleasures of Bartholomew Fair, a place
unequalled for dirt and noise--where was to be seen horses that had
run at races, though they had never been on a course; bears turned to
pigged--faced ladies; play-booths, where more fun was to be seen outside
than in--men dressed like baboons, and women screaming, 'Show them in,
only a penny a-piece!' Oysters, ginger-beer, hot pork, hot beef-steaks,
and gingerbread-nuts by the bushel. Had almost forgot, my dear girl,
to apologize for not having paid you a visit since your removal to the
suburbs--peaceful abode!--nothing equal to my lodgings, next door to
a coppersmith, opposite to a box-maker, with a shoemaker overhead, and
a good woman who takes in children to 'dry-nurse' in the parlour. Hope
soon to see you, having to give you a kiss for each of your cousins,
quarter cousins, friends, and acquaintances.--I remain, your's truly,

"A COUNTRY COUSIN."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHINESE PROVERBS AND APOTHEGMS.

"It is very difficult to govern women and servants."

[This is a maxim of Confucius, who assigns this reason. "For if you
treat them with gentleness and familiarity, they lose all respect; if
with rigour you will have continual disturbance."]

"If the river is deep, which you are to pass on foot, go through it
clothed in the ancient manner; if shallow, tuck up your garments."

[The Chinese believe that at first men went naked, or at most loosely
clad in the skin of some animal. Vide Mart. Hist. p. 18. This proverb is
applied to inculcate the necessity of accommodating one's self to the
different circumstances of life.]

"Know when to stop seasonably."

"Learn to be content with what suffices."

["What need have we of riches? (saith a Chinese moralist.) Produce me
the man, who, content with a straw cottage, and a little enclosure of
canes, employs himself in reading the writings of our wise men, or in
discoursing on virtue; who desires no other recreation than to refresh
himself with the cool air by moonshine, and whose whole solicitude is
to preserve in his heart the love of innocence and of his neighbour."
P. Du Halde, 2. 103.]

Similar to this proverb are the Latin, "Quod satis est cui continget
nihil amplius optet."

The French, "Qui a assez, n'a plus rien à desirer."

And the English "Enough is as good as a feast."

"Let us love others, as we love ourselves."--_Confucius_.

G.L.S.