Produced by John Bickers


THE POLITY OF THE ATHENIANS AND THE LACEDAEMONIANS

By Xenophon

Translation by H. G. Dakyns


     Xenophon the Athenian was born 431 B.C. He was a
     pupil of Socrates. He marched with the Spartans,
     and was exiled from Athens. Sparta gave him land
     and property in Scillus, where he lived for many
     years before having to move once more, to settle
     in Corinth. He died in 354 B.C.

     The Polity of the Lacedaemonians talks about the
     laws and institutions created by Lycurgus, which
     train and develop Spartan citizens from birth to
     old age.


  PREPARER'S NOTE

  This was typed from Dakyns' series, "The Works of Xenophon," a
  four-volume set. The complete list of Xenophon's works (though
  there is doubt about some of these) is:

  Work                                   Number of books

  The Anabasis                                         7
  The Hellenica                                        7
  The Cyropaedia                                       8
  The Memorabilia                                      4
  The Symposium                                        1
  The Economist                                        1
  On Horsemanship                                      1
  The Sportsman                                        1
  The Cavalry General                                  1
  The Apology                                          1
  On Revenues                                          1
  The Hiero                                            1
  The Agesilaus                                        1
  The Polity of the Athenians and the Lacedaemonians   2

  Text in brackets "{}" is my transliteration of Greek text into
  English using an Oxford English Dictionary alphabet table. The
  diacritical marks have been lost.


     The Polity of the Lacedaemonians talks about the
     laws and institutions created by Lycurgus, which
     train and develop Spartan citizens from birth to
     old age.


THE POLITY OF THE ATHENIANS


I

Now, as concerning the Polity of the Athenians, (1) and the type or
manner of constitution which they have chosen, (2) I praise it not,
in so far as the very choice involves the welfare of the baser folk as
opposed to that of the better class. I repeat, I withhold my praise so
far; but, given the fact that this is the type agreed upon, I propose
to show that they set about its preservation in the right way; and that
those other transactions in connection with it, which are looked upon as
blunders by the rest of the Hellenic world, are the reverse.

 (1) See Grote, "H. G." vi. p. 47 foll.; Thuc. i. 76, 77; viii. 48;
    Boeckh, "P. E. A." passim; Hartman, "An. Xen. N." cap. viii.;
    Roquette, "Xen. Vit." S. 26; Newman, "Pol. Arist." i. 538; and
    "Xenophontis qui fertur libellus de Republica Atheniensium," ed.
    A. Kirchhoff (MDCCCLXXIV), whose text I have chiefly followed.

 (2) Lit. "I do not praise their choice of the (particular) type, in so
    far as..."

In the first place, I maintain, it is only just that the poorer classes
(3) and the People of Athens should be better off than the men of birth
and wealth, seeing that it is the people who man the fleet, (4) and put
round the city her girdle of power. The steersman, (5) the boatswain,
the lieutenant, (6) the look-out-man at the prow, the shipright--these
are the people who engird the city with power far rather than her heavy
infantry (7) and men of birth of quality. This being the case, it seems
only just that offices of state should be thrown open to every one both
in the ballot (8) and the show of hands, and that the right of speech
should belong to any one who likes, without restriction. For, observe,
(9) there are many of these offices which, according as they are in good
or in bad hands, are a source of safety or of danger to the People, and
in these the People prudently abstains from sharing; as, for instance,
it does not think it incumbent on itself to share in the functions of
the general or of the commander of cavalry. (10) The sovereign People
recognises the fact that in forgoing the personal exercise of these
offices, and leaving them to the control of the more powerful (11)
citizens, it secures the balance of advantage to itself. It is only
those departments of government which bring emolument (12) and assist
the private estate that the People cares to keep in its own hands.

 (3) Cf. "Mem." I. ii. 58 foll.

 (4) Lit. "ply the oar and propel the galleys."

 (5) See "Econ." viii. 14; Pollux, i. 96; Arist. "Knights," 543 foll.;
    Plat. "Laws," v. 707 A; Jowett, "Plat." v. 278 foll.; Boeckh, "P.
    E. A." bk. ii. ch. xxi.

 (6) Lit. "pentecontarch;" see Dem. "In Pol." 1212.

 (7) Aristot. "Pol." vi. 7; Jowett, "The Politics of Aristotle," vol.
    i. p. 109.

 (8) {klerotoi}, {airetoi}.

 (9) Reading with Kirchhoff, {epeo tou}, or if {epeita}, "in the next
    place."

 (10) Hipparch.

 (11) Cf. "Hipparch." i. 9; "Econ." ii. 8.

 (12) E.g. the {dikasteria}.

In the next place, in regard to what some people are puzzled to
explain--the fact that everywhere greater consideration is shown to
the base, to poor people and to common folk, than to persons of good
quality--so far from being a matter of surprise, this, as can be shown,
is the keystone of the preservation of the democracy. It is these
poor people, this common folk, this riff-raff, (13) whose prosperity,
combined with the growth of their numbers, enhances the democracy.
Whereas, a shifting of fortune to the advantage of the wealthy and the
better classes implies the establishment on the part of the commonalty
of a strong power in opposition to itself. In fact, all the world over,
the cream of society is in opposition to the democracy. Naturally, since
the smallest amount of intemperance and injustice, together with the
highest scrupulousness in the pursuit of excellence, is to be found in
the ranks of the better class, while within the ranks of the People
will be found the greatest amount of ignorance, disorderliness,
rascality--poverty acting as a stronger incentive to base conduct, not
to speak of lack of education and ignorance, traceable to the lack of
means which afflicts the average of mankind. (14)

 (13) Or, "these inferiors," "these good-for-nothings."

 (14) Or, "some of these folk." The passage is corrupt.

The objection may be raised that it was a mistake to allow the universal
right of speech (15) and a seat in council. These should have been
reserved for the cleverest, the flower of the community. But here,
again, it will be found that they are acting with wise deliberation in
granting to (16) even the baser sort the right of speech, for supposing
only the better people might speak, or sit in council, blessings would
fall to the lot of those like themselves, but to the commonalty the
reverse of blessings. Whereas now, any one who likes, any base fellow,
may get up and discover something to the advantage of himself and his
equals. It may be retorted: "And what sort of advantage either for
himself or for the People can such a fellow be expected to hit upon?"
The answer to which is, that in their judgment the ignorance and
baseness of this fellow, together with his goodwill, are worth a great
deal more to them than your superior person's virtue and wisdom, coupled
with animosity. What it comes to, therefore, is that a state founded
upon such institutions will not be the best state; (17) but, given a
democracy, these are the right means to procure its preservation. The
People, it must be borne in mind, does not demand that the city should
be well governed and itself a slave. It desires to be free and to be
master. (18) As to bad legislation it does not concern itself about
that. (19) In fact, what you believe to be bad legislation is the very
source of the People's strength and freedom. But if you seek for good
legislation, in the first place you will see the cleverest members of
the community laying down the laws for the rest. And in the next place,
the better class will curb and chastise the lower orders; the
better class will deliberate in behalf of the state, and not suffer
crack-brained fellows to sit in council, or to speak or vote in
Parliament. (20) No doubt; but under the weight of such blessings the
People will in a very short time be reduced to slavery.

 (15) Lit. "everybody to speak in turn."

 (16) Or, "it is a counsel of perfection on their part to grant to,"
    etc.

 (17) Or, "the ideal state."

 (18) Or, "and to govern and hold office."

 (19) Or, "it will take the risk of that."

 (20) See Grote, "H. G." v. p. 510 note.

Another point is the extraordinary amount of license (21) granted to
slaves and resident aliens at Athens, where a blow is illegal, and a
slave will not step aside to let you pass him in the street. I will
explain the reason of this peculiar custom. Supposing it were legal
for a slave to be beaten by a free citizen, or for a resident alien or
freedman to be beaten by a citizen, it would frequently happen that
an Athenian might be mistaken for a slave or an alien and receive a
beating; since the Athenian People is no better clothed than the slave
or alien, nor in personal appearance is there any superiority. Or if the
fact itself that slaves in Athens are allowed to indulge in luxury, and
indeed in some cases to live magnificently, be found astonishing, this
too, it can be shown, is done of set purpose. Where you have a naval
power (22) dependent upon wealth (23) we must perforce be slaves to our
slaves, in order that we may get in our slave-rents, (24) and let
the real slave go free. Where you have wealthy slaves it ceases to be
advantageous that my slave should stand in awe of you. In Lacedaemon my
slave stands in awe of you. (25) But if your slave is in awe of me there
will be a risk of his giving away his own moneys to avoid running a risk
in his own person. It is for this reason then that we have established
an equality between our slaves and free men; and again between our
resident aliens and full citizens, (26) because the city stands in need
of her resident aliens to meet the requirements of such a multiplicity
of arts and for the purposes of her navy. That is, I repeat, the
justification for the equality conferred upon our resident aliens.

 (21) See Aristot. "Pol." v. 11 and vi. 4; Jowett, op. cit. vol. i. pp.
    179, 196; Welldon, "The Politics of Aristotle," pp. 394 323; Dem.
    "Phil." III. iii. 10; Plaut. "Stich." III. i. 37.

 (22) See Diod. xi. 43.

 (23) Reading, {apo khrematon, anagke}, or (reading, {apo khrematon
    anagke}) "considerations of money force us to be slaves."

 (24) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. xiii. (Eng. trans. p. 72). "The rights
    of property with regard to slaves in no way differed from any
    other chattel; they could be given or taken as pledges. They
    laboured either on their master's account or their own, in
    consideration of a certain sum to be paid to the master, or they
    were let out on hire either for the mines or any other kind of
    labour, and even for other persons' workshops, or as hired
    servants for wages ({apophora}): a similar payment was also
    exacted by the masters for their slaves serving in the fleet." Ib.
    "Dissertation on the Silver Mines of Laurion," p. 659 (Eng.
    trans.)

 (25) See "Pol. Lac." vi. 3.

 (26) Or, "we have given to our slaves the right to talk like equals
    with free men, just as to resident aliens the right of so talking
    with citizens." See Jebb, "Theophr. Char." xiv. 4, note, p. 221.
    See Demosth. "against Midias," 529, where the law is cited. "If
    any one commit a personal outrage upon man, woman, or child,
    whether free-born or slave, or commit any illegal act against any
    such person, let any Athenian that chooses" (not being under
    disability) "indict him before the judges," etc; and the orator
    exclaims: "You know, O Athenians, the humanity of the law, which
    allows not even slaves to be insulted in their persons."--C. R.
    Kennedy.

Citizens devoting their time to gymnastics and to the cultivation of
music are not to be found in Athens; (27) the sovereign People has
disestablished them, (28) not from any disbelief in the beauty and
honour of such training, but recognising the fact that these are things
the cultivation of which is beyond its power. On the same principle, in
the case of the coregia, (29) the gymnasiarchy, and the trierarchy, the
fact is recognised that it is the rich man who trains the chorus, and
the People for whom the chorus is trained; it is the rich man who is
trierarch or gymnasiarch, and the People that profits by their labours.
(30) In fact, what the People looks upon as its right is to pocket
the money. (31) To sing and run and dance and man the vessels is well
enough, but only in order that the People may be the gainer, while the
rich are made poorer. And so in the courts of justice, (32) justice is
not more an object of concern to the jurymen than what touches personal
advantage.

 (27) For {mousike} and {gumnastike}, see Becker's "Charicles," Exc.
    "Education."

 (28) See "Revenues," iv. 52; Arist. "Frogs," 1069, {e xekenosen tas te
    palaistras}, "and the places of exercise vacant and bare."--Frere.

 (29) "The duties of the choregia consisted in finding maintenance and
    instruction for the chorus" (in tragedy, usually of fifteen
    persons) "as long as they were in training; and in providing the
    dresses and equipments for the performance."--Jebb, "Theophr.
    Char." xxv. 3. For those of the gymnasiarchy, see "Dict. of
    Antiq." "Gymnasium." For that of the trierarchy, see Jebb, op.
    cit. xxv. 9; xxix. 16; Boeckh, "P. E. A." IV. xi.

 (30) See "Econ." ii. 6; Thuc. vi. 31.

 (31) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." II. xvi. p. 241.

 (32) For the system of judicature, the {dikasteria}, and the boards of
    jurymen or judges, see Aristot. "Constitution of Athens," ch.
    lxiii.; "Dict. of Antiq." s.v.

To speak next of the allies, and in reference to the point that
emissaries (33) from Athens come out, and, according to common opinion,
calumniate and vent their hatred (34) upon the better sort of people,
this is done (35) on the principle that the ruler cannot help being
hated by those whom he rules; but that if wealth and respectability are
to wield power in the subject cities the empire of the Athenian People
has but a short lease of existence. This explains why the better people
are punished with infamy, (36) robbed of their money, driven from their
homes, and put to death, while the baser sort are promoted to honour. On
the other hand, the better Athenians throw their aegis over the better
class in the allied cities. (37) And why? Because they recognise that it
is to the interest of their own class at all times to protect the best
element in the cities. It may be urged (38) that if it comes to strength
and power the real strength of Athens lies in the capacity of her allies
to contribute their money quota. But to the democratic mind (39) it
appears a higher advantage still for the individual Athenian to get hold
of the wealth of the allies, leaving them only enough to live upon
and to cultivate their estates, but powerless to harbour treacherous
designs.

 (33) For {oi ekpleontes}, see Grote, "H. G." vi. p. 41.

 (34) Reading {misousi}; or, if with Kirchhoff, {meiousi}, "in every
    way humiliate."

 (35) Or, "(they do so) as recognising the fact."

 (36) {atimia} = the loss of civil rights, either total or partial. See
    C. R. Kennedy, "Select Speeches of Demosthenes," Note 13,
    Disenfranchisement.

 (37) See Thuc. viii. 48.

 (38) See Grote, "H. G." vi. 53.

 (39) Or, "to a thorough democrat."

Again, (40) it is looked upon as a mistaken policy on the part of the
Athenian democracy to compel her allies to voyage to Athens in order to
have their cases tried. (41) On the other hand, it is easy to reckon up
what a number of advantages the Athenian People derive from the practice
impugned. In the first place, there is the steady receipt of salaries
throughout the year (42) derived from the court fees. (43) Next, it
enables them to manage the affairs of the allied states while seated
at home without the expense of naval expeditions. Thirdly, they thus
preserve the partisans of the democracy, and ruin her opponents in the
law courts. Whereas, supposing the several allied states tried their
cases at home, being inspired by hostility to Athens, they would destroy
those of their own citizens whose friendship to the Athenian People was
most marked. But besides all this the democracy derives the following
advantages from hearing the cases of her allies in Athens. In the first
place, the one per cent (44) levied in Piraeus is increased to the
profit of the state; again, the owner of a lodging-house (45) does
better, and so, too, the owner of a pair of beasts, or of slaves to
be let out on hire; (46) again, heralds and criers (47) are a class of
people who fare better owing to the sojourn of foreigners at Athens.
Further still, supposing the allies had not to resort to Athens for the
hearing of cases, only the official representative of the imperial
state would be held in honour, such as the general, or trierarch, or
ambassador. Whereas now every single individual among the allies is
forced to pay flattery to the People of Athens because he knows that he
must betake himself to Athens and win or lose (48) his case at the bar,
not of any stray set of judges, but of the sovereign People itself,
such being the law and custom at Athens. He is compelled to behave as
a suppliant (49) in the courts of justice, and when some juryman comes
into court, to grasp his hand. For this reason, therefore, the allies
find themselves more and more in the position of slaves to the people of
Athens.

 (40) Grote, "H. G." vi. 61.

 (41) See Isocr. "Panath." 245 D.

 (42) See Arist. "Clouds," 1196; Demosth. "c. Timoc." 730.

 (43) For the "Prytaneia," see Aristot. "Pol." ii. 12, 4. "Ephialtes
    and Pericles curtailed the privileges of the Areopagus, Pericles
    converted the Courts of Law into salaried bodies, and so each
    succeeding demagogue outdid his predecessor in the privileges he
    conferred upon the commons, until the present democracy was the
    result" (Welldon). "The writer of this passage clearly intended to
    class Pericles among the demagogues. He judges him in the same
    deprecatory spirit as Plato in the 'Gorgias,' pp. 515, 516."--
    Jowett, "Pol. of Aristot." vol. ii. p. 101. But see Aristot.
    "Constitution of Athens," ch. xxv., a portion of the newly-
    discovered treatise, which throws light on an obscure period in
    the history of Athens; and Mr. Kenyon's note ad loc.; and Mr.
    Macan's criticism, "Journal of Hellenic Studies," vol. xii. No. 1.

 (44) For the {ekatoste}, see Thuc. vii. 28, in reference to the year
    B.C. 416; Arist. "Wasps," 658; "Frogs," 363.

 (45) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. xii. p. 65 (Eng. trans.); I. xxiv. p.
    141.

 (46) See "Revenues," iv. 20, p. 338; Jebb, "Theophr. Char." xxvi. 16.

 (47) For these functionaries, see Jebb, op. cit. xvi. 10.

 (48) Lit. "pay or get justice."

 (49) Se Arist. "Wasps," 548 foll.; Grote, "H. G." v. 520 note; Newman,
    op. cit. i. 383.

Furthermore, owing to the possession of property beyond the limits
of Attica, (50) and the exercise of magistracies which take them into
regions beyond the frontier, they and their attendants have insensibly
acquired the art of navigation. (51) A man who is perpetually voyaging
is forced to handle the oar, he and his domestics alike, and to learn
the terms familiar in seamanship. Hence a stock of skilful mariners is
produced, bred upon a wide experience of voyaging and practice. They
have learnt their business, some in piloting a small craft, others a
merchant vessel, whilst others have been drafted off from these for
service on a ship-of-war. So that the majority of them are able to row
the moment they set foot on board a vessel, having been in a state of
preliminary practice all their lives.

 (50) See "Mem." II. viii. 1.

 (51) See "Hell." VII. i. 4.


II

As to the heavy infantry, an arm the deficiency of which at Athens is
well recognised, this is how the matter stands. They recognise the fact
that, in reference to the hostile power, they are themselves inferior,
and must be, even if their heavy infantry were more numerous. (1) But
relatively to the allies, who bring in the tribute, their strength even
on land is enormous. And they are persuaded that their heavy infantry is
sufficient for all purposes, provided they retain this superiority.
(2) Apart from all else, to a certain extent fortune must be held
responsible for the actual condition. The subjects of a power which is
dominant by land have it open to them to form contingents from several
small states and to muster in force for battle. But with the subjects of
a naval power it is different. As far as they are groups of islanders it
is impossible for their states to meet together for united action, for
the sea lies between them, and the dominant power is master of the sea.
And even if it were possible for them to assemble in some single island
unobserved, they would only do so to perish by famine. And as to the
states subject to Athens which are not islanders, but situated on the
continent, the larger are held in check by need (3) and the small ones
absolutely by fear, since there is no state in existence which does not
depend upon imports and exports, and these she will forfeit if she does
not lend a willing ear to those who are masters by sea. In the next
place, a power dominant by sea can do certain things which a land power
is debarred from doing; as for instance, ravage the territory of a
superior, since it is always possible to coast along to some point,
where either there is no hostile force to deal with or merely a small
body; and in case of an advance in force on the part of the enemy they
can take to their ships and sail away. Such a performance is attended
with less difficulty than that experienced by the relieving force on
land. (4) Again, it is open to a power so dominating by sea to leave its
own territory and sail off on as long a voyage as you please. Whereas
the land power cannot place more than a few days' journey between itself
and its own territory, for marches are slow affairs; and it is not
possible for an army on the march to have food supplies to last for any
great length of time. Such an army must either march through friendly
territory or it must force a way by victory in battle. The voyager
meanwhile has it in his power to disembark at any point where he finds
himself in superior force, or, at the worst, to coast by until he
reaches either a friendly district or an enemy too weak to resist.
Again, those diseases to which the fruits of the earth are liable as
visitations from heaven fall severely on a land power, but are scarcely
felt by the navel power, for such sicknesses do not visit the whole
earth everywhere at once. So that the ruler of the sea can get in
supplies from a thriving district. And if one may descend to more
trifling particulars, it is to this same lordship of the sea that the
Athenians owe the discovery, in the first place, of many of the luxuries
of life through intercourse with other countries. So that the choice
things of Sicily and Italy, of Cyprus and Egypt and Lydia, of Pontus or
Peloponnese, or wheresoever else it be, are all swept, as it were,
into one centre, and all owing, as I say, to their maritime empire. And
again, in process of listening to every form of speech, (5) they have
selected this from one place and that from another--for themselves. So
much so that while the rest of the Hellenes employ (6) each pretty much
their own peculiar mode of speech, habit of life, and style of dress,
the Athenians have adopted a composite type, (7) to which all sections
of Hellas, and the foreigner alike, have contributed.

 (1) Reading after Kirchhoff, {ettous ge... kan ei meizon en, ton
    dia k.t.l.} See Thuc. i. 143; Isocr. "de Pace," 169 A; Plut.
    "Them." 4 (Clough, i. 235).

 (2) Lit. "they are superior to their allies."

 (3) Reading with Kirchhoff, {dia khreian... dia deos}.

 (4) Or, "the army marching along the seaboard to the rescue."

 (5) Or, "a variety of dialects."

 (6) Or, "maintain somewhat more."

 (7) Or, "have contracted a mixed style, bearing traces of Hellenic and
    foreign influence alike." See Mahaffy, "Hist. of Greek Lit." vol.
    ii. ch. x. p. 257 (1st ed.); cf. Walt Whitman, "Preface to"
    original edition of "Leaves of Grass," p. 29--"The English
    language befriends the grand American expression: it is brawny
    enough and limber and full enough, on the tough stock of a race,
    who through all change of circumstances was never without the idea
    of a political liberty, which is the animus of all liberty; it has
    attracted the terms of daintier and gayer and subtler and more
    elegant tongues."

As regards sacrifices and temples and festivals and sacred enclosures,
the People sees that it is not possible for every poor citizen to do
sacrifice and hold festival, or to set up (8) temples and to inhabit
a large and beautiful city. But it has hit upon a means of meeting the
difficulty. They sacrifice--that is, the whole state sacrifices--at the
public cost a large number of victims; but it is the People that keeps
holiday and distributes the victims by lot amongst its members. Rich men
have in some cases private gymnasia and baths with dressing-rooms, (9)
but the People takes care to have built at the public cost (10) a number
of palaestras, dressing-rooms, and bathing establishments for its own
special use, and the mob gets the benefit of the majority of these,
rather than the select few or the well-to-do.

 (8) Reading with Kirchhoff, {istasthai}.

 (9) See Jebb, "Theophr. Char." vii. 18, p. 202.

 (10) Reading with Kirchhoff, {demosia}.

As to wealth, the Athenians are exceptionally placed with regard to
Hellenic and foreign communities alike, (11) in their ability to
hold it. For, given that some state or other is rich in timber for
shipbuilding, where is it to find a market (12) for the product except
by persuading the ruler of the sea? Or, suppose the wealth of some state
or other to consist of iron, or may be of bronze, (13) or of linen yarn,
where will it find a market except by permission of the supreme maritime
power? Yet these are the very things, you see, which I need for my
ships. Timber I must have from one, and from another iron, from a third
bronze, from a fourth linen yarn, from a fifth wax, etc. Besides which
they will not suffer their antagonists in those parts (14) to carry
these products elsewhither, or they will cease to use the sea.
Accordingly I, without one stroke of labour, extract from the land and
possess all these good things, thanks to my supremacy on the sea; whilst
not a single other state possesses the two of them. Not timber, for
instance, and yarn together, the same city. But where yarn is abundant,
the soil will be light and devoid of timber. And in the same way bronze
and iron will not be products of the same city. And so for the rest,
never two, or at best three, in one state, but one thing here and
another thing there. Moreover, above and beyond what has been said, the
coast-line of every mainland presents, either some jutting promontory,
or adjacent island, or narrow strait of some sort, so that those who are
masters of the sea can come to moorings at one of these points and wreak
vengeance (15) on the inhabitants of the mainland.

 (11) Or, "they have a practical monopoly."

 (12) Or, "how is it to dispose of the product?"

 (13) Or, "coppert."

 (14) Reading {ekei}. For this corrupt passage see L. Dindorf, ad.
    loc.; also Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. ix. p. 55. Perhaps (as my friend
    Mr. J. R. Mozley suggests) the simplest supposition is to suppose
    that there is an ellipsis before {e ou khresontai te thalatte}:
    thus, "Besides which they will not suffer their antagonists to
    transport goods to countries outside Attica; they must yield, or
    they shall not have the use of the sea."

 (15) {lobasthai}. This "poetical" word comes to mean "harry,"
    "pillage," in the common dialect.

There is just one thing which the Athenians lack. Supposing that they
were the inhabitants of an island, (16) and were still, as now, rulers
of the sea, they would have had it in their power to work whatever
mischief they liked, and to suffer no evil in return (as long as they
kept command of the sea), neither the ravaging of their territory nor
the expectation of an enemy's approach. Whereas at present the farming
portion of the community and the wealthy landowners are ready (17) to
cringe before the enemy overmuch, whilst the People, knowing full well
that, come what may, not one stock or stone of their property will
suffer, nothing will be cut down, nothing burnt, lives in freedom from
alarm, without fawning at the enemy's approach. Besides this, there
is another fear from which they would have been exempt in an island
home--the apprehension of the city being at any time betrayed by their
oligarchs (18) and the gates thrown open, and an enemy bursting suddenly
in. How could incidents like these have taken place if an island had
been their home? Again, had they inhabited an island there would have
been no stirring of sedition against the people; whereas at present,
in the event of faction, those who set it in foot base their hopes of
success on the introduction of an enemy by land. But a people inhabiting
an island would be free from all anxiety on that score. Since, however,
they did not chance to inhabit an island from the first, what they now
do is this--they deposit their property in the islands, (19) trusting
to their command of the sea, and they suffer the soil of Aticca to be
ravaged without a sigh. To expend pity on that, they know, would be to
deprive themselves of other blessings still more precious. (20)

 (16) See Thuc. i. 143. Pericles says: "Reflect, if we were islanders,
    who would be more invulnerable? Let us imagine that we are."

 (17) Or, "are the more ready to cringe." See, for the word
    {uperkhontai}, "Pol. Lac." viii. 2; Plat. "Crit." 53 E;
    Rutherford, "New Phrynichus," p. 110.

 (18) Or, "by the minority"; or, "by a handful of people."

 (19) As they did during the Peloponnesian war; and earlier still,
    before the battle of Salamis, in the case of that one island.

 (20) Or, "but mean the forfeiture of others."

