The Archbishop of Narbonne, writing in the reign of Francis I., (about
1520,) calls Paris even then a world rather than a city[3]; yet at
that period its population was probably not much more than the fifth
part of what it now is; nor did the quantity of ground it covered bear
even the same proportion to the immense space over which it has now
extended. But in both convenience and elegance, Paris has made still
more extraordinary advances since the time of Francis than even in
population and extent. It was then, compared to what it now is, but a
gloomy and incommodious fortress, without even the security which
encompassing fortifications might be supposed to yield. Lighted only
by candles placed here and there by the inhabitants themselves in
their windows, it was so infested by thieves and assassins that hardly
any person ventured out after dark, and the approach of night was the
source of constant terror even to those who remained in their houses.
The streets thus imperfectly lighted, were worse paved; and most of
them were as dirty and narrow as those still to be seen in the more
ancient part of the city. The supply of water was so inadequate that
the severest miseries were sometimes suffered from the absolute want
of that necessary of life, and the greatest inconveniences at all
times from its scarcity. Finally, the public edifices were without
splendour, and even the best of the private houses unprovided with
many of what are now accounted the most indispensable accommodations.
Instead of all this, we behold Paris now one of the very central seats
of civilization; and although still deficient in many of the
accommodations which supply to the necessities of the many instead of
the luxuries of the few, in possession of the greater portion of the
most important provisions which ingenuity has found out, whether for
the comfort or the embellishment of existence. What a contrast between
the French capital of 1831, and that Lutetia of the ancient Parisii,
which Caesar found nearly nineteen hundred years ago occupying the
little island, around which has since extended itself so wide a circle
of wealth, industry, intelligence, and the works which these create!

    [3] Felibien, Histoire de Paris, tome i.

_Bridges._

Paris, stands, like London, on both banks of a river, and is thus cut
into two great divisions, one to the north, and the other to the
south, of the water. The Seine, however, is not nearly so broad as the
Thames; and the northern and southern halves of Paris are not,
therefore, by any means so much separated from each other, either
locally, politically, or socially, as are the corresponding portions
of the English metropolis. They form, in all respects one city.

The Seine flows in a direction nearly opposite to that of the Thames,
namely, from south-east to north-west. It preserves almost a perfectly
straight course in passing through Paris, except that it bends
considerably to the south immediately before leaving the town. The
river, as it flows through the heart of the city, is interrupted by
three small islands lying in succession, the two most westerly of
which, the Ile de la Cité (otherwise called the Ile du Palais) and the
Ile St. Louis, or de Notre Dame, are covered with streets and houses.
The third, called the Ile Louvier, is used only as a depôt for
fire-wood. The parts of the town on the opposite sides of the river
are connected with each other, and with these islands, by nineteen
bridges, thirteen of which are constructed of stone, and two of stone
and iron: of the others two are chain-bridges, one is built of wood,
and two of wood and iron. Several of these structures, especially the
Pont des Arts, the Pont Louis XVI., and the Pont de Jena, or de
l'Ecole Militaire, all of which are to the west of the Ile du Palais,
are distinguished by their majesty or elegance, and add much beauty
and picturesque effect to the vista of the river. Excepting at one
place where the two branches enclosing the Ile du Palais unite,
immediately to the west of that island, the breadth of the Seine at
Paris is no where greater than about 550 English feet, and at some
points it is not more than half that distance from the one bank to
the other. The bridges, therefore, by which the Seine is traversed,
are not to be compared in point of magnitude with those of the Thames
at London. Even the Pont Neuf, which connects the Ile du Palais with
both the northern and the southern divisions of the city, and
comprehends in fact two bridges, with an intermediate street, is
shorter taken altogether, than Waterloo bridge by more than 200 feet;
and the Pont Louis XVI., which next to the Pont Neuf is the longest of
the Parisian stone bridges, measures only about 485 feet between the
abutments, while Westminster Bridge measures 1223, and Waterloo Bridge
1242 feet. It is in the _number_ of its bridges alone, therefore, that
the Seine is superior to the Thames.

_The Boulevards._

The most remarkable feature in the general appearance of Paris, is the
inner inclosure formed by the celebrated road called the _Boulevards._
On the north side of the river, the Boulevards follow a line nearly
midway, on an average, between the river and the wall. The space which
they comprehend, therefore, is but a small portion of that included
within the outer boundary of the city. The length of this part of the
road is about 5,200 English yards, or somewhat under three miles. That
on the south side of the river is of far greater extent, approaching,
as it does, throughout its whole sweep, very much closer to the wall,
and in some parts entirely coinciding with it. It measures about
16,000 yards, or above nine miles in length. Each of these lines,
although in reality forming an uninterrupted road from its
commencement to its termination, is divided into a succession of
parts, each having its particular name. The northern Boulevards are
twelve in number, the southern seven. We have nothing in England like
the Parisian Boulevards. They may be generally described as a road or
street, of great breadth, along each side of which are planted double
rows of elms. But these shady avenues do not present merely a picture
of rural beauty. Rising as they do in the heart of a great city, they
partake also of its artificial elegance and splendour, and are
associated with all the luxuries of architectural decoration.
Considered merely as a range of streets, the Boulevards are hardly
rivalled by any other part of Paris. Those to the north of the river
are lined on both sides throughout their whole extent, by buildings
more uniformly handsome than are those of almost any other street in
the city, and by many which may be even described as magnificent. Some
of these are private residences; others are shops, cafés, public
hotels, and theatres. The crowds by whom so many parts of these
Boulevards are frequented chiefly give to the scene its singular
liveliness and brilliancy. The southern Boulevards, though equally
beautiful, are far from being so much the habitual resort of the
citizens; but the walks on this very account, have a charm for some
moods of mind which the others want. Another road, planted in a
similar manner, has more recently been carried round the outside of
the present walls of the city. It is distinguished from the inner
Boulevards by the name of the _Boulevards Extérieurs._

_Streets._

To a person accustomed to the appearance of the streets of London, or
indeed of any other English town, those of the interior of Paris will
present considerable novelty of aspect. The extreme narrowness, in the
first place, of those in the more ancient parts of the city, and the
great height of the houses, with their windows in many cases fortified
by bars of iron, would alone give them an air of gloom and precaution,
almost sufficient to impress the Englishman who walks through them
with the feeling that he has been transported, not only into another
country, but into another age. Even where these indications of the
more ancient evils of Paris are not visible, the general aspect of the
town shows that it has not grown with the growth of a free people,
amongst whom the inequalities of rank have been softened down by
respect to the comforts of all classes. Under the ancient régime,
which was in full activity half a century ago, there were only two
classes in Paris, the _noblesse_, and the _bourgeoisie_; and the
latter, being driven into the gutters by the carriage-wheels of their
arrogant masters, went by the general name of the _canaille._ Few of
the streets even now have any side pavement for foot passengers--that
invaluable accommodation which gives such perfect security to the
pedestrian even in our most crowded and tumultuous thoroughfare. The
causeway itself, on which walkers and drivers are thus mingled
together in confusion, is often most uneven and rugged. The stones of
which it is formed, about ten inches square, present each a convex
surface, usually wet and slippery, so that under the most favourable
circumstances, walking in the streets of Paris is anything but an
agreeable exercise. Still farther to abridge the level space, the
street is made to incline from both sides towards the centre, in order
to form there a sort of ditch, in which flows a black and fetid
stream. From the want of a proper system of drains, this receptacle of
filth is generally sufficiently replenished even in the driest
weather, to keep the whole street wet and dirty. Carriages, having
usually one wheel in the midst of the kennel, dash about the offensive
puddle in all directions. But the principle of a clear middle way,
such as our English streets possess, is neglected in all the
arrangements connected with those of Paris. Even the lights, instead
of being fixed on posts, as ours are, at the sides, are suspended in
the middle on ropes swung across, and having their opposite ends
fastened to the walls of the houses. It was these ropes which the mob,
in the Revolution of 1789, were wont to make use of as halters for
their victims; whence their famous cry of _á la lanterne_, as they
dragged them along to execution.

The aspect of Paris by night, except in a few of the principal streets
where gas has been very partially introduced, is singularly gloomy.
The darkness is occasionally relieved by the brilliancy of a café; but
in the more quiet parts of the town, particularly in the fashionable
quarter of the Faubourg St. Germain, it is almost impossible for the
pedestrian to direct his steps aright. It is quite evident that the
arrangements of this capital have not been made for a walking people.
This evil, however, is fast disappearing. Numerous _passages_ have
been constructed, within the last ten years, which are paved with flat
stones, and brilliantly lighted; and the active and pleasure-seeking
population of Paris crowd to these attractive and convenient places,
to the Boulevards, or to the Palais-Royal, and leave the narrow and
dirty streets principally to the few who keep their own carriages, or
to the many who hire public conveyances. These are of various kinds;
and such was the growing importance of the middle classes, that
_fiacres_ (so called after the sign of St Fiacre, at the house where
they were first established) were in use a century and a half ago.

The remainder of the Part is occupied with a sketch of the Revolution
of 1789.

       *       *       *       *       *


REFORM OF EARLY PARLIAMENTS.


Though no language can adequately condemn the base subserviency of
Henry's parliament, it may be reasonably doubted whether his reign
was, in its ultimate consequences, injurious to public liberty. The
immense revolutions of his time in property, in religion, and in the
inheritance of the crown, never could have been effected without the
concurrence of parliament. Their acquiescence and co-operation in the
spoliation of property, and the condemnation of the innocent, tempted
him to carry all his purposes into execution, through their means.
Those who saw the attainders of queens, the alteration of an
established religion, and the frequent disturbance of the regal
succession, accomplished by acts of parliament, considered nothing as
beyond the jurisdiction of so potent an assembly.[4] If the supremacy
was a tremendous power, it accustomed the people to set no bounds to
the authority of those who bestowed it on the king. The omnipotence of
parliament appeared no longer a mere hyperbole. Let it not be
supposed, that to mention the good thus finally educed from such
evils, is intended or calculated to palliate crimes, or to lessen our
just abhorrence of criminals. Nothing, on the contrary, seems more to
exalt the majesty of virtue than to point out the tendency of the
moral government of the world, which, as in this instance, turns the
worst enemies of all that is good into the laborious slaves of
justice. Of all outward benefits, the most conducive to virtue as well
as to happiness is, doubtless, popular and representative government.
It is the reverse of a degradation of it to observe, that its
establishment among us was perhaps partially promoted by the
sensuality, rapacity, and cruelty of Henry VIII. The course of affairs
is always so dark, the beneficial consequences of public events are so
distant and uncertain, that the attempt to do evil in order to produce
good is in men a most criminal usurpation.

    [4] The observations of Nathaniel Bacon, or rather of Selden
    from whose MS. notes he is said to have written his book,
    deserve serious consideration. Bacon on the Laws and
    Government of England, chap. 27.

Some direct benefits the constitution owes to this reign. The act
which established a parliamentary representation in so considerable a
territory as Wales may be regarded as the principal reformation in the
composition of the House of Commons since its legal maturity in the
time of Edward I. That principality had been divided into twelve
shires: of which eight were ancient,[5] and four owed their origin to
a statute of Henry's reign.[6] Knights, citizens, and burgesses were
now directed to be chosen and sent to parliament from the shires,
cities, and burghs of Wales.[7] A short time before, the same
privileges were granted to the county palatine of Chester, of which
the preamble contains a memorable recognition and establishment of the
principles which are the basis of the elective part of our
constitution.[8] Nearly thirty members were thus added to the House of
Commons on the principle of the Chester bill: that is disadvantageous
to a province to be unrepresented; that representation is essential to
good government; and that those who are bound by the laws ought to
have a reasonable share of direct influence on the passing of laws. As
the practical disadvantages are only generally alleged, and could
scarcely have been proved, they must have been inferred from the
nature of a House of Commons. The British constitution was not thought
to be enjoyed by a district till a popular representation was bestowed
on it. Election by the people was regarded, not as a source of tumult,
but as the principle most capable of composing disorder in territories
not represented.--_Cabinet Cyclopaedia_, vol. xix. _Sir James
Mackintosh's History of England_, vol. ii.

    [5] Glamorgan, Carmarthen, Pembroke, Cardigan, Flint,
    Carnarvon, Anglesea and Merioneth.

    [6] Radnor, Brecknock, Montgomery, and Denbigh, 27 Henry 8 c.
    26.

    [7] 34 and 35 Henry 8. c. 26. s. 50.

    [8] 34 and 35 Henry 8. c. 13.--"That the said county have
    hitherto been excluded from the high court of parliament, to
    have any knights and burgesses within the said court, by
    reason whereof the inhabitants have sustained manifold damages
    in their lands, goods, and bodies, as well as in the good
    governance of the commonwealth of their said country; and for
    as much as they have been bound by the acts of the said court,
    and yet have had no knights and burgesses therein, for lack
    whereof they have been often touched and grieved by the acts
    of the said parliament, prejudicial to the commonwealth,
    quietness, rest, and peace of your highness's bounden
    subjects, inhabiting within the said county," &c.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE TOPOGRAPHER.


TRAVELLING NOTES IN SOUTH WALES.

(_Continued from page 312._)


The grounds of Penrice Castle, which stretch to the sea-shore, and on
which art has embellished scenery possessing capabilities of a high
order--are exceedingly picturesque and extensive. Penrice bears marks
of having been a Roman station. Henry de Newburgh, Earl of Warwick,
here defeated the Welsh prince, Rhys, which decided the fate of Gower.
He was beheaded after the battle, whence the Welsh name, Pen-Rhys. On
the field of battle the victor erected Penrice Castle, which is now
certainly a striking ruin. On the coast near Penrice is the village
and ruins of the Castle of Oxwich, now a barn--_sic transit!_

The afternoon was waxing apace--we had lost time in attending to our
horses, for ostler there was none--and in musing amongst the simply
decorated graves in the humble churchyard;[9] after discussing with
great relish our repast of eggs and bacon, and Welsh ale, the best the
village afforded, (by the way, we shall not readily forget the fluster
of our Welsh hostess when we talked of dining on our arrival at the
little hostelrie) we then rode down to the sea-shore, intending to
cross the sandy beach of Oxwich, which extends several miles, on our
return to the Gower Inn. The tide flows with great rapidity on this
coast, and it had already advanced to the foot of a stupendous
headland, which juts into the beach about half way. We waded our
horses through the surf--but how can we do justice to the splendour of
the scenery around us. The alternations of stern and savage
beauty--the gigantic masses of "fantastic cliffs," and caverns, that
have stood the combat of the mighty Atlantic for countless ages?
Oxwich is almost unknown to the traveller, and there are few coast
scenes in these islands that surpass it in beauty. We lingered long on
the shore. There is a perpetual "jabble" against the cliffs on this
coast--and we have seldom met with a soul save an aged and solitary
fisherwoman--a study for a Bonington--pursuing her precarious calling
of crab or shrimp fishing, or of pulling lobsters from their retreats
in the savage cliffs.

    [9] See _Mirror_, vol. xvi. p. 253.

                           A holy peace,
  Pervades this _sea-shore solitude_--The world
  And all who love that world, are far away.
                                  N.T. CARRINGTON.

It was getting dusk when we ascended from the shore, on our way
homewards, past the wild--the truly shattered, and desolate ruins of
Pennard Castle; which bear, we think, decided marks of having been
erected long prior to the Norman era. The country people tell you its
origin was supernatural; and some writers ascribe it to that great
castle-builder, Henry de Newburgh. Pennard stands in a situation of
extreme beauty, and deeply rivets the attention:

  "The stones have voices, and the walls do live,
  It is the House of Memory!"
                                 MATAIRE.

Our favourite mare and her companion were in high spirits, (horses are
generally so on returning) exhilarated by the rapid motion; and our
hearts elate with the "songs of spring," we returned home on as sweet
an April evening as ever blessed man.

Another interesting excursion maybe made to Cefyn-bryn, the most
elevated hill in the district, about twelve miles from Swansea. The
road to Western Gower is carried over it; the summit is level, and a
carriage may be driven in safety for a couple of miles to the southern
point; which commands, on a clear day, in one direction, a vast and
unbounded view of the Bristol Channel, the whitened houses of
Ilfracombe, with the hills of Devon and Somerset, Lundy Island, and
the scenery of Swansea Bay. And on the reverse of the picture, almost
the whole peninsula of Gower, the extensive estuary of the Burry
River, and part of the beautiful expanse of the County and Bay of
Carmarthen, is spread out like a map before you. King Arthur's Stone,
an immense rock of _lapis molaris_, twenty tons weight, supported by a
circle of others--the remains of Druidism--invites the attention of
the antiquary, on the north-west point of Cefyn-bryn. We may here
remark that this district, especially the coast, offers a rich harvest
to the geologist. The general substratum of the peninsula is limestone
and marble, bounded to the north by an immense iron and coalfield. The
limestone stratum is continually "cropping out" in the interior, and
of course it can be worked at a trifling expense. This may account for
the general healthiness of the district. Though rain in consequence of
the western exposure, falls frequently, and sometimes with great
violence, yet it speedily runs off, leaving none of the bad effects
which would be produced in a tenacious soil. Marble of valuable
quality is worked at Oystermouth.

But we must hasten to close our Notes on Gower--_to proceed with our
circuit of the coast:--West from Oxwich is Porteyron_, where there is
an extensive lobster and oyster fishery, near which is Landewy Castle.
There is a wonderful precipice here. Further west we come to the
village of Rossilly, near the Worms-Head, the termination of a range
of rocks, which form the western point of the peninsula, being
connected with it by a low isthmus. It extends more than a mile into
the ocean, and at half-flood becomes an island. The name arose by
mariners comparing it to a worm with its head erect, between the Nass
Point and St. Gower's Head, in Pembrokeshire. The scenery here is
deeply interesting. This wild and desolate coast has proved fatal to
numberless ships; the recent erection of the light-house on Caldy
Island, near Tenby, on the opposite point of Carmarthen Bay, has,
however, been most important. Several Indiamen have been wrecked here,
and about fifty years since, a quantity of Spanish dollars, date 1625,
were found amongst the sand, when the tide had receded unusually far,
supposed to be part of the cargo of the "Scanderoon galley" lost on
this coast nearly two centuries ago. This would do for the "Vigo Bay
Company." We proceed along the western shore of Carmarthen Bay, till
we pass Whitford Point, a singular _peninsula of sand_, covered with
reeds, which stands the fury of the tide, forming one side of the wide
estuary of Barry, along the coast of which we pass a Roman encampment
at Llanmadoc--the striking Castle of Llanridian, and other ruins, as
we return eastward to Swansea; till we arrive at the village--we
forget ourselves, the _Borough_ of Castell Llwchyr, or Loughor, the
_Leucarum_ of Antoninus, and the fifth Roman station on the _Via
Julia._ It is seven miles from Swansea. Upon a mount, the supposed
work of the Romans, is a square tower, the remains of a castle built
by Henry, Earl of Warwick. Three miles to the east are two Roman
encampments; many Roman coins have been found at Loughor, from whence
there is a ferry to the Carmarthenshire side opposite, which is
fordable at low water. There is a large colliery here. It is a
delightful sail from this village down the Burry River to Whitford
Point, or round the coast to Worms-Head.

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER.

    "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."
                                SHAKSPEARE.


_The following curious letter was found among the papers of a Mr.
Goldwyre, Surgeon, of Salisbury._

To Mr. Edward Goldwyre, at his house on the Close of Salisbury.

Sir,--Being informed that you are the only surgeon in this city (or
country) that anatomises men, and I being under the present unhappy
circumstances, and in a very mean condition, would gladly live as long
as I can, but by all appearances I am to be executed next March, but
having no friends on earth that will speak a word to save my life, nor
send me a morsel of bread to keep life and soul together until that
fatal day; so if you will vouchsafe to come hither, I will gladly
sell you my body (being whole and sound) to be ordered at your
discretion, knowing that it will rise again at the general
resurrection, as well from your house as from the grave. Your answer
will highly oblige, yours, &c.

JAMES BROOKE.
_Fisherton-Auger Gaol_,           _Oct._ 3, 1736.

       *       *       *       *       *

A farmer walking out one day, by chance met Jack Ketch, and jocosely
asked him whether he could tell him the difference between their
trades. "That I can," said Jack, "the only difference is
_utility_--you till, I tie."

WALTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is the most suitable motto for a doctor's carriage? Live or die.

Why is the _carver_ in a cook-shop like a naval officer? Because he
commands a _cutter._

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *


EPITAPHS.

  Here lies poor Thomas, and his Wife,
  Who led a pretty jarring life;
  But all is ended--do you see?
  He holds his tongue, and so does she.

  If drugs and physic could but save
  Us mortals from the dreary grave,
  'Tis known that I took full enough
  Of the apothecaries' stuff
  To have prolong'd life's busy feast
  To a full century at least;
  But spite of all the doctors' skill,
  Of daily draught and nightly pill,
  Reader, as sure as you're alive,
  I was sent here at twenty-five.

       *       *       *       *       *


FOR ALL FAMILIES.

This Day, Second Edition, price 5s.

FAMILY MANUAL and SERVANTS' GUIDE,
With upwards of One Thousand New and Approved Receipts, arranged and
adapted for Families and all Classes of Servants.

"We shall recommend this book every where, if it were only for the
sake of the excellent suggestions on the 'self-improvement' of
house-servants."--_Gardeners' Magazine_, June 1830.

"It should find a place in the kitchen or servants' hall of those who
desire to blend comfort with elegance, and prudence with
luxury."--_New Monthly Magazine_, Feb. 1831.

"This book contains a mass of information that cannot fail to be
useful in the conduct of household affairs."--_Atlas_, May 22.

"No servant should he without it."--_Morning Advertiser_, April 27.

Printed for JOHN LIMBIRD, 143. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic;
G.G. BENNIS, 55, Rue Neuve, St. Augustin, Paris; and by all Newsmen
and Booksellers._