Produced by David Widger


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A.   F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

   TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A.  LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                              JUNE & JULY
                                 1660

June 1st.  This morning Mr. Sheply disposed of the money that the Duke of
York did give my Lord's servants, 22 ducatoons 3 came to my share, whereof
he told me to give Jaspar something because my Lord left him out.

     [Foreign coins were in frequent use at this time.  A Proclamation,
     January 29th, 1660-61, declared certain foreign gold and silver
     coins to be current at certain rates.  The rate of the ducatoon was
     at 5s. 9d.]

I did give Mr. Sheply the fine pair of buckskin gloves that I bought
myself about five years ago.  My Lord took physic to-day, and so come not
out all day.  The Captain on shore all day.  After dinner Captain Jefferys
and W. Howe, and the Lieutenant and I to ninepins, where I lost about two
shillings and so fooled away all the afternoon.  At night Mr. Cooke comes
from London with letters, leaving all things there very gallant and
joyful.  And brought us word that the Parliament had ordered the 29th of
May, the King's birthday, to be for ever kept as a day of thanksgiving for
our redemption from tyranny, and the King's return to his Government, he
entering London that day.  My wife was in London when he came thither, and
had been there a week with Mr. Bowyer and his wife. My poor wife has not
been well a week before, but thanks be to God is well again.  She would
fain see me and be at her house again, but we must be content.  She writes
word how the Joyces grow very rich and very proud, but it is no matter,
and that there was a talk that I should be knighted by the King, which
they (the Joyces) laugh at; but I think myself happier in my wife and
estate than they are in theirs.  To bed. The Captain come on board, when I
was going to bed, quite fuddled; and himself the next morning told me so
too, that the Vice-Admiral, Rear-Admiral, and he had been drinking all
day.

2d.  Being with my Lord in the morning about business in his cabin, I took
occasion to give him thanks for his love to me in the share that he had
given me of his Majesty's money, and the Duke's.  He told the he hoped to
do me a more lasting kindness, if all things stand as they are now between
him and the King, but, says he, "We must have a little patience and we
will rise together; in the mean time I will do you all the good jobs I
can."  Which was great content for me to hear from my Lord.  All the
morning with the Captain, computing how much the thirty ships that come
with the King from Scheveling their pay comes to for a month (because the
King promised to give them all a month's pay), and it comes to L6,538, and
the Charles particularly L777.  I wish we had the money.  All the
afternoon with two or three captains in the Captain's cabin, drinking of
white wine and sugar, and eating pickled oysters, where Captain Sparling
told us the best story that ever I heard, about a gentleman that persuaded
a country fool to let him gut his oysters or else they would stink.  At
night writing letters to London and Weymouth, for my Lord being now to sit
in the House of Peers he endeavours to get Mr. Edward Montagu for Weymouth
and Mr. George for Dover.  Mr. Cooke late with me in my cabin while I
wrote to my wife, and drank a bottle of wine and so took leave of me on
his journey and I to bed.

3d.  Waked in the morning by one who when I asked who it was, he told me
one from Bridewell, which proved Captain Holland.  I rose presently to
him.  He is come to get an order for the setting out of his ship, and to
renew his commission.  He tells me how every man goes to the Lord Mayor to
set down their names, as such as do accept of his Majesty's pardon, and
showed me a certificate under the Lord Mayor's hand that he had done so.

At sermon in the morning; after dinner into my cabin, to cast my accounts
up, and find myself to be worth near L100, for which I bless Almighty God,
it being more than I hoped for so soon, being I believe not clearly worth
L25 when I came to sea besides my house and goods.  Then to set my papers
in order, they being increased much upon my hands through want of time to
put them in order.  The ship's company all this while at sermon. After
sermon my Lord did give me instruction to write to London about business,
which done, after supper to bed.

4th.  Waked in the morning at four o'clock to give some money to Mr.
Hetly, who was to go to London with the letters that I wrote yesterday
night.  After he was gone I went and lay down in my gown upon my bed again
an hour or two.  At last waked by a messenger come for a Post Warrant for
Mr. Hetly and Mr. Creed, who stood to give so little for their horses that
the men would not let them have any without a warrant, which I sent them.
All the morning getting Captain Holland's commission done, which I did,
and he at noon went away.  I took my leave of him upon the quarter-deck
with a bottle of sack, my Lord being just set down to dinner.  Then he
being gone I went to dinner and after dinner to my cabin to write.  This
afternoon I showed my Lord my accounts, which he passed, and so I think
myself to be worth near L100 now.  In the evening I made an order for
Captain Sparling of the Assistance to go to Middleburgh, to fetch over
some of the King's goods.  I took the opportunity to send all my Dutch
money, 70 ducatoons and 29 gold ducats to be changed, if he can, for
English money, which is the first venture that ever I made, and so I have
been since a little afeard of it.  After supper some music and so to bed.
This morning the King's Proclamation against drinking, swearing, and
debauchery, was read to our ships' companies in the fleet, and indeed it
gives great satisfaction to all.

     [The King's "Proclamation against vicious, debauched, and prophane
     Persons" is dated May 30th.  It is printed in "Somers's Tracts," ed.
     1812, vol. vii.  p. 423.]

5th.  A-bed late.  In the morning my Lord went on shore with the
Vice-Admiral a-fishing, and at dinner returned.  In the afternoon I played
at ninepins with my Lord, and when he went in again I got him to sign my
accounts for L115, and so upon my private balance I find myself confirmed
in my estimation that I am worth L100.  In the evening in my cabin a great
while getting the song without book, "Help, help Divinity, &c." After
supper my Lord called for the lieutenant's cittern, and with two
candlesticks with money in them for symballs, we made barber's music,

     [In the "Notices of Popular Histories," printed for the Percy
     Society, there is a curious woodcut representing the interior of a
     barber's shop, in which, according to the old custom, the person
     waiting to be shaved is playing on the "ghittern" till his turn
     arrives.  Decker also mentions a "barber's cittern," for every
     serving-man to play upon.  This is no doubt "the barber's music"
     with which Lord Sandwich entertained himself.--B.]

with which my Lord was well pleased.  So to bed.

6th.  In the morning I had letters come, that told me among other things,
that my Lord's place of Clerk of the Signet was fallen to him, which he
did most lovingly tell me that I should execute, in case he could not get
a better employment for me at the end of the year.  Because he thought
that the Duke of York would command all, but he hoped that the Duke would
not remove me but to my advantage.

I had a great deal of talk about my uncle Robert,

     [Robert Pepys of Brampton, eldest son of Thomas Pepys the red, and
     brother of Samuel's father.]

and he told me that he could not tell how his mind stood as to his estate,
but he would do all that lay in his power for me.  After dinner came Mr.
Gooke from London, who told me that my wife he left well at Huntsmore,
though her health not altogether so constant as it used to be, which my
heart is troubled for.  Mr. Moore's letters tell me that he thinks my Lord
will be suddenly sent for up to London, and so I got myself in readiness
to go.

My letters tell me, that Mr. Calamy

     [Edmund Calamy, D.D., the celebrated Nonconformist divine, born
     February, 1600, appointed Chaplain to Charles II., 1660.  He refused
     the bishopric of Lichfield which was offered to him.  Died October
     29th, 1666.]

had preached before the King in a surplice (this I heard afterwards to be
false); that my Lord, Gen.  Monk, and three more Lords, are made
Commissioners for the Treasury;

     [The names of the Commissioners were--Sir Edward Hyde, afterwards
     Earl of Clarendon, General Monk, Thomas, Earl of Southampton, John,
     Lord Robartes, Thomas, Lord Colepeper, Sir Edward Montagu, with Sir
     Edward Nicholas and Sir William Morrice as principal Secretaries of
     State.  The patents are dated June 19th, 1660.]

that my Lord had some great place conferred on him, and they say Master of
the Wardrobe;

     [The duty of the Master of the Wardrobe was to provide "proper
     furniture for coronations, marriages, and funerals" of the sovereign
     and royal family, "cloaths of state, beds, hangings, and other
     necessaries for the houses of foreign ambassadors, cloaths of state
     for Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, Prince of Wales, and ambassadors
     abroad," as also to provide robes for Ministers of State, Knights of
     the Garter, &c.  The last Master of the Wardrobe was Ralph, Duke of
     Montague, who died 1709.]

that the two Dukes--[Duke of York and Duke of Gloucester.]--do haunt the
Park much, and that they were at a play, Madam Epicene,--["Epicene, or the
Silent Woman," a comedy, by Ben Jonson.]--the other day; that Sir. Ant.
Cooper, Mr. Hollis, and Mr. Annesly,& late President of the Council of
State, are made Privy Councillors to the King.  At night very busy sending
Mr. Donne away to London, and wrote to my father for a coat to be made me
against I come to London, which I think will not be long.  At night Mr.
Edward Montagu came on board and staid long up with my Lord. I to bed and
about one in the morning,

7th.  W. Howe called me up to give him a letter to carry to my Lord that
came to me to-day, which I did and so to, sleep again.  About three in the
morning the people began to wash the deck, and the water came pouring into
my mouth, which waked me, and I was fain to rise and get on my gown, and
sleep leaning on my table.  This morning Mr. Montagu went away again.
After dinner come Mr. John Wright and Mr. Moore, with the sight of whom my
heart was very glad.  They brought an order for my Lord's coming up to
London, which my Lord resolved to do tomorrow.  All the afternoon getting
my things in order to set forth to-morrow.  At night walked up and down
with Mr. Moore, who did give me an account of all things at London. Among
others, how the Presbyterians would be angry if they durst, but they will
not be able to do any thing.  Most of the Commanders on board and supped
with my Lord.  Late at night came Mr. Edw. Pickering from London, but I
could not see him this night.  I went with Mr. Moore to the Master's
cabin, and saw him there in order to going to bed.  After that to my own
cabin to put things in order and so to bed.

8th.  Out early, took horses at Deale.  I troubled much with the King's
gittar, and Fairbrother, the rogue that I intrusted with the carrying of
it on foot, whom I thought I had lost.  Col. Dixwell's horse taken by a
soldier and delivered to my Lord, and by him to me to carry to London.
Came to Canterbury, dined there.  I saw the minster and the remains of
Becket's tomb.  To Sittiligborne and Rochester.  At Chatham and Rochester
the ships and bridge.  Mr. Hetly's mistake about dinner.  Come to
Gravesend.  A good handsome wench I kissed, the first that I have seen a
great while.  Supped with my Lord, drank late below with Penrose, the
Captain.  To bed late, having first laid out all my things against
to-morrow to put myself in a walking garb.  Weary and hot to bed to Mr.
Moore.

9th.  Up betimes, 25s. the reckoning for very bare.  Paid the house and by
boats to London, six boats.  Mr. Moore, W. Howe, and I, and then the child
in the room of W. Howe.  Landed at the Temple.  To Mr. Crew's.  To my
father's and put myself into a handsome posture to wait upon my Lord,
dined there.  To White Hall with my Lord and Mr. Edwd. Montagu.  Found the
King in the Park.  There walked.  Gallantly great.

10th.  (Lord's day.)  At my father's found my wife and to walk with her in
Lincoln's Inn walks.

11th.  Betimes to my Lord.  Extremely much people and business.  So with
him to Whitehall to the Duke.  Back with him by coach and left him in
Covent Garden.  I back to Will's and the Hall to see my father.  Then to
the Leg in King Street with Mr. Moore, and sent for.  L'Impertinent to
dinner with me.  After that with Mr. Moore about Privy Seal business.  To
Mr. Watkins, so to Mr. Crew's.  Then towards my father's met my Lord and
with him to Dorset House to the Chancellor.  So to Mr. Crew's and saw my
Lord at supper, and then home, and went to see Mrs. Turner, and so to bed.

12th.  Visited by the two Pierces, Mr. Blackburne, Dr. Clerk and Mr.
Creed, and did give them a ham of bacon.  So to my Lord and with him to
the Duke of Gloucester.  The two Dukes dined with the Speaker, and I saw
there a fine entertainment and dined with the pages.  To Mr. Crew's,
whither came Mr. Greatorex, and with him to the Faithornes, and so to the
Devils tavern.  To my Lord's and staid till 12 at night about business. So
to my father's, my father and mother in bed, who had been with my uncle
Fenner, &c., and my wife all day and expected me.  But I found Mr. Cook
there, and so to bed.

13th.  To my Lord's and thence to the Treasurer's of the Navy,' with Mr.
Creed and Pierce the Purser to Rawlinson's, whither my uncle Wight came,
and I spent 12s. upon them.  So to Mr. Crew's, where I blotted a new
carpet--[It was customary to use carpets as table cloths.]--that was
hired, but got it out again with fair water.  By water with my Lord in a
boat to Westminster, and to the Admiralty, now in a new place.  After
business done there to the Rhenish wine-house with Mr. Blackburne, Creed,
and Wivell.  So to my Lord's lodging and to my father's, and to bed.

14th.  Up to my Lord and from him to the Treasurer of the Navy for L500.
After that to a tavern with Washington the Purser, very gallant, and ate
and drank.  To Mr. Crew's and laid my money.  To my Lady Pickering with
the plate that she did give my Lord the other day.  Then to Will's and met
William Symons and Doling and Luellin, and with them to the Bull-head, and
then to a new alehouse in Brewer's Yard, where Winter that had the fray
with Stoakes, and from them to my father's.

15th.  All the morning at the Commissioners of the Navy about getting out
my bill for L650 for the last quarter, which I got done with a great deal
of ease, which is not common.  After that with Mr. Turner to the Dolphin
and drunk, and so by water to W. Symons, where D. Scobell with his wife, a
pretty and rich woman.  Mrs. Symons, a very fine woman, very merry after
dinner with marrying of Luellin and D. Scobell's kinswoman that was there.
Then to my Lord who told me how the King has given him the place of the
great Wardrobe.  My Lord resolves to have Sarah again.  I to my father's,
and then to see my uncle and aunt Fenner.  So home and to bed.

16th.  Rose betimes and abroad in one shirt, which brought me a great cold
and pain.  Murford took me to Harvey's by my father's to drink and told me
of a business that I hope to get L5 by.  To my Lord, and so to White Hall
with him about the Clerk of the Privy Seal's place, which he is to have.

Then to the Admiralty, where I wrote same letters.  Here Coll. Thompson
told me, as a great secret; that the Nazeby was on fire when the King was
there, but that is not known; when God knows it is quite false.  Got a
piece of gold from Major Holmes for the horse of Dixwell's I brought to
town.  Dined at Mr. Crew's, and after dinner with my Lord to Whitehall.
Court attendance infinite tedious.  Back with my Lord to my Lady Wright's
and staid till it had done raining, which it had not done a great while.
After that at night home to my father's and to bed.

17th (Lord's day).  Lay long abed.  To Mr. Mossum's; a good sermon.  This
day the organs did begin to play at White Hall before the King.--[All
organs were removed from churches by an ordinance dated 1644.]--Dined at
my father's.  After dinner to Mr. Mossum's again, and so in the garden,
and heard Chippell's father preach, that was Page to the Protector, and
just by the window that I stood at sat Mrs. Butler, the great beauty.
After sermon to my Lord.  Mr. Edward and I into Gray's Inn walks, and saw
many beauties.  So to my father's, where Mr. Cook, W.  Bowyer, and my coz
Roger Wharton supped and to bed.

18th.  To my Lord's, where much business and some hopes of getting some
money thereby.  With him to the Parliament House, where he did intend to
have gone to have made his appearance to-day, but he met Mr. Crew upon the
stairs, and would not go in.  He went to Mrs. Brown's, and staid till word
was brought him what was done in the House.  This day they made an end of
the twenty men to be excepted from pardon to their estates.  By barge to
Stepny with my Lord, where at Trinity House we had great entertainment.
With, my Lord there went Sir W. Pen, Sir H. Wright, Hetly, Pierce; Creed,
Hill, I and other servants.  Back again to the Admiralty, and so to my
Lord's lodgings, where he told me that he did look after the place of the
Clerk of the Acts--[The letters patent appointing Pepys to the office of
Clerk of the Acts is dated July 13th, 1660.]--for me.  So to Mr. Crew's
and my father's and to bed.  My wife went this day to Huntsmore for her
things, and I was very lonely all night.  This evening my wife's brother,
Balty, came to me to let me know his bad condition and to get a place for
him, but I perceive he stands upon a place for a gentleman, that may not
stain his family when, God help him, he wants bread.

19th.  Called on betimes by Murford, who showed me five pieces to get a
business done for him and I am resolved to do it., Much business at my
Lord's.  This morning my Lord went into the House of Commons, and there
had the thanks of the House, in the name of the Parliament and Commons of
England, for his late service to his King and Country.  A motion was made
for a reward for him, but it was quashed by Mr. Annesly, who, above most
men, is engaged to my Lord's and Mr. Crew's families.  Meeting with
Captain Stoakes at Whitehall, I dined with him and Mr. Gullop, a parson
(with whom afterwards I was much offended at his importunity and
impertinence, such another as Elborough),

     [Thomas Elborough was one of Pepys's schoolfellows, and afterwards
     curate of St. Lawrence Poultney.]

and Mr. Butler, who complimented much after the same manner as the parson
did.  After that towards my Lord's at Mr. Crew's, but was met with by a
servant of my Lady Pickering, who took me to her and she told me the story
of her husband's case and desired my assistance with my Lord, and did give
me, wrapped up in paper, L5 in silver.  After that to my Lord's, and with
him to Whitehall and my Lady Pickering.  My Lord went at night with the
King to Baynard's Castle' to supper, and I home to my father's to bed.  My
wife and the girl and dog came home to-day.  When I came home I found a
quantity of chocolate left for me, I know not from whom.  We hear of W.
Howe being sick to-day, but he was well at night.

20th.  Up by 4 in the morning to write letters to sea and a commission for
him that Murford solicited for.  Called on by Captain Sparling, who did
give me my Dutch money again, and so much as he had changed into English
money, by which my mind was eased of a great deal of trouble. Some other
sea captains.  I did give them a good morning draught, and so to my Lord
(who lay long in bed this day, because he came home late from supper with
the King).  With my Lord to the Parliament House, and, after that, with
him to General Monk's, where he dined at the Cock-pit.  I home and dined
with my wife, now making all things ready there again.  Thence to my Lady
Pickering, who did give me the best intelligence about the Wardrobe.
Afterwards to the Cockpit to my Lord with Mr. Townsend, one formerly and
now again to be employed as Deputy of the Wardrobe.  Thence to the
Admiralty, and despatched away Mr. Cooke to sea; whose business was a
letter from my Lord about Mr. G. Montagu to be chosen as a Parliament-man
in my Lord's room at Dover;' and another to the Vice-Admiral to give my
Lord a constant account of all things in the fleet, merely that he may
thereby keep up his power there; another letter to Captn. Cuttance to send
the barge that brought the King on shore, to Hinchingbroke by Lynne.  To
my own house, meeting G. Vines, and drank with him at Charing Cross, now
the King's Head Tavern.  With my wife to my father's, where met with
Swan,--[William Swan is called a fanatic and a very rogue in other parts
of the Diary.]--an old hypocrite, and with him, his friend and my father,
and my cozen Scott to the Bear Tavern.  To my father's and to bed.

21st.  To my Lord, much business.  With him to the Council Chamber, where
he was sworn; and the charge of his being admitted Privy Counsellor is
L26.  To the Dog Tavern at Westminster, where Murford with Captain Curle
and two friends of theirs went to drink.  Captain Curle, late of the
Maria, gave me five pieces in gold and a silver can for my wife for the
Commission I did give him this day for his ship, dated April 20, 1660
last.  Thence to the Parliament door and came to Mr. Crew's to dinner with
my Lord, and with my Lord to see the great Wardrobe, where Mr. Townsend
brought us to the governor of some poor children in tawny clothes; who had
been maintained there these eleven years, which put my Lord to a stand how
to dispose of them, that he may have the house for his use.  The children
did sing finely, and my Lord did bid me give them five pieces in gold at
his going away.  Thence back to White Hall, where, the King being gone
abroad, my Lord and I walked a great while discoursing of the simplicity
of the Protector, in his losing all that his father had left him.  My Lord
told me, that the last words that he parted with the Protector with (when
he went to the Sound), were, that he should rejoice more to see him in his
grave at his return home, than that he should give way to such things as
were then in hatching, and afterwards did ruin him: and the Protector
said, that whatever G.  Montagu, my Lord Broghill, Jones, and the
Secretary, would have him to do, he would do it, be it what it would.
Thence to my wife, meeting Mr. Blagrave, who went home with me, and did
give me a lesson upon the flageolet, and handselled my silver can with my
wife and me.  To my father's, where Sir Thomas Honeywood and his family
were come of a sudden, and so we forced to lie all together in a little
chamber, three stories high.

22d.  To my Lord, where much business.  With him to White Hall, where the
Duke of York not being up, we walked a good while in the Shield Gallery.
Mr. Hill (who for these two or three days hath constantly attended my
Lord) told me of an offer of L500 for a Baronet's dignity, which I told my
Lord of in the balcone in this gallery, and he said he would think of it.
I to my Lord's and gave order for horses to be got to draw my Lord's great
coach to Mr. Crew's.  Mr. Morrice the upholsterer came himself to-day to
take notice what furniture we lack for our lodgings at Whitehall.  My dear
friend Mr. Fuller of Twickenham and I dined alone at the Sun Tavern, where
he told me how he had the grant of being Dean of St. Patrick's, in
Ireland; and I told him my condition, and both rejoiced one for another.
Thence to my Lord's, and had the great coach to Brigham's, who went with
me to the Half Moon, and gave me a can of good julep, and told me how my
Lady Monk deals with him and others for their places, asking him L500,
though he was formerly the King's coach-maker, and sworn to it.  My Lord
abroad, and I to my house and set things in a little order there.  So with
Mr. Moore to my father's, I staying with Mrs. Turner who stood at her door
as I passed.  Among other things she told me for certain how my old Lady
Middlesex----herself the other day in the presence of the King, and people
took notice of it.  Thence called at my father's, and so to Mr. Crew's,
where Mr. Hetley had sent a letter for me, and two pair of silk stockings,
one for W. Howe, and the other for me.  To Sir H. Wright's to my Lord,
where he, was, and took direction about business, and so by link home
about 11 o'clock.  To bed, the first time since my coming from sea, in my
own house, for which God be praised.

23d.  By water with Mr. Hill towards my Lord's lodging and so to my Lord.
With him to Whitehall, where I left him and went to Mr. Holmes to deliver
him the horse of Dixwell's that had staid there fourteen days at the Bell.
So to my Lord's lodgings, where Tom Guy came to me, and there staid to see
the King touch people for the King's evil. But he did not come at all, it
rayned so; and the poor people were forced to stand all the morning in the
rain in the garden.  Afterward he touched them in the Banquetting-house.

     [This ceremony is usually traced to Edward the Confessor, but there
     is no direct evidence of the early Norman kings having touched for
     the evil.  Sir John Fortescue, in his defence of the House of
     Lancaster against that of York, argued that the crown could not
     descend to a female, because the Queen is not qualified by the form
     of anointing her, used at the coronation, to cure the disease called
     the King's evil.  Burn asserts, "History of Parish Registers," 1862,
     p. 179, that "between 1660 and 1682, 92,107 persons were touched for
     the evil."  Everyone coming to the court for that purpose, brought a
     certificate signed by the minister and churchwardens, that he had
     not at any time been touched by His Majesty.  The practice was
     supposed to have expired with the Stuarts, but the point being
     disputed, reference was made to the library of the Duke of Sussex,
     and four several Oxford editions of the Book of Common Prayer were
     found, all printed after the accession of the house of Hanover, and
     all containing, as an integral part of the service, "The Office for
     the Healing."  The stamp of gold with which the King crossed the
     sore of the sick person was called an angel, and of the value of ten
     shillings.  It had a hole bored through it, through which a ribbon
     was drawn, and the angel was hanged about the patient's neck till
     the cure was perfected.  The stamp has the impression of St. Michael
     the Archangel on one side, and a ship in full sail on the other.
     "My Lord Anglesey had a daughter cured of the King's evil with three
     others on Tuesday."--MS.  Letter of William Greenhill to Lady Bacon,
     dated December 31st, 1629, preserved at Audley End.  Charles II.
     "touched" before he came to the throne.  "It is certain that the
     King hath very often touched the sick, as well at Breda, where he
     touched 260 from Saturday the 17 of April to Sunday the 23 of May,
     as at Bruges and Bruxels, during the residence he made there; and
     the English assure .  .  .  it was not without success, since it was
     the experience that drew thither every day, a great number of those
     diseased even from the most remote provinces of Germany."--Sir
     William Lower's Relation of the Voiage and Residence which Charles
     the II. hath made in Holland, Hague, 1660, p. 78.  Sir William Lower
     gives a long account of the touching for the evil by Charles before
     the Restoration.]

With my Lord, to my Lord Frezendorfe's, where he dined to-day.  Where he
told me that he had obtained a promise of the Clerk of the Acts place for
me, at which I was glad.  Met with Mr. Chetwind, and dined with him at
Hargrave's, the Cornchandler, in St. Martin's Lane, where a good dinner,
where he showed me some good pictures, and an instrument he called an
Angelique.

     [An angelique is described as a species of guitar in Murray's "New
     English Dictionary," and this passage from the Diary is given as a
     quotation.  The word appears as angelot in Phillips's "English
     Dictionary" (1678), and is used in Browning's "Sordello," as a
     "plaything of page or girl."]

With him to London, changing all my Dutch money at Backwell's

     [Alderman Edward Backwell, an eminent banker and goldsmith, who is
     frequently mentioned in the Diary.  His shop was in Lombard Street.
     He was ruined by the closing of the Exchequer by Charles II. in
     1672.  The crown then owed him L295,994 16s. 6d., in lieu of which
     the King gave him an annuity of L17,759 13s. 8d.  Backwell retired
     into Holland after the closing of the Exchequer, and died there in
     1679.  See Hilton Price's "Handbook of London Bankers," 1876.]

for English, and then to Cardinal's Cap, where he and the City
Remembrancer who paid for all.  Back to Westminster, where my Lord was,
and discoursed with him awhile about his family affairs.  So he went away,
I home and wrote letters into the country, and to bed.

24th.  Sunday.  Drank my morning draft at Harper's, and bought a pair of
gloves there.  So to Mr. G. Montagu, and told him what I had received from
Dover, about his business likely to be chosen there.  So home and thence
with my wife towards my father's.  She went thither, I to Mr. Crew's,
where I dined and my Lord at my Lord Montagu of Boughton in Little Queen
Street.  In the afternoon to Mr. Mossum's with Mr. Moore, and we sat in
Mr. Butler's pew.  Then to Whitehall looking for my Lord but in vain, and
back again to Mr. Crew's where I found him and did give him letters.
Among others some simple ones from our Lieutenant, Lieut. Lambert to him
and myself, which made Mr. Crew and us all laugh.  I went to my father's
to tell him that I would not come to supper, and so after my business done
at Mr. Crew's I went home and my wife within a little while after me, my
mind all this while full of thoughts for my place of Clerk of the Acts.

25th.  With my Lord at White Hall, all the morning.  I spoke with Mr.
Coventry about my business, who promised me all the assistance I could
expect.  Dined with young Mr. Powell, lately come from the Sound, being
amused at our great changes here, and Mr. Southerne, now Clerk to Mr.
Coventry, at the Leg in King-street.  Thence to the Admiralty, where I met
with Mr. Turner

     [Thomas Turner (or Tourner) was General Clerk at the Navy Office,
     and on June 30th he offered Pepys L150 to be made joint Clerk of the
     Acts with him.  In a list of the Admiralty officers just before the
     King came in, preserved in the British Museum, there occur, Richard
     Hutchinson; Treasury of the Navy, salary L1500; Thomas Tourner,
     General Clerk, for himself and clerk, L100.]

of the Navy-office, who did look after the place of Clerk of the Acts. He
was very civil to me, and I to him, and shall be so.  There came a letter
from my Lady Monk to my Lord about it this evening, but he refused to come
to her, but meeting in White Hall, with Sir Thomas Clarges, her brother,
my Lord returned answer, that he could not desist in my business; and that
he believed that General Monk would take it ill if my Lord should name the
officers in his army; and therefore he desired to have the naming of one
officer in the fleet.  With my Lord by coach to Mr. Crew's, and very merry
by the way, discoursing of the late changes and his good fortune.  Thence
home, and then with my wife to Dorset House, to deliver a list of the
names of the justices of the peace for Huntingdonshire.  By coach, taking
Mr. Fox part of the way with me, that was with us with the King on board
the Nazeby, who I found to have married Mrs. Whittle, that lived at Mr.
Geer's so long.  A very civil gentleman.  At Dorset House I met with Mr.
Kipps, my old friend, with whom the world is well changed, he being now
sealbearer to the Lord Chancellor, at which my wife and I are well
pleased, he being a very good natured man.  Home and late writing letters.
Then to my Lord's lodging, this being the first night of his coming to
Whitehall to lie since his coming from sea.

26th.  My Lord dined at his lodgings all alone to-day.  I went to
Secretary Nicholas

     [Sir Edward Nicholas, Secretary of State to Charles I. and II.
     He was dismissed from his office through the intrigues of Lady
     Castlemaine in 1663.  He died 1669, aged seventy-seven.]

to carry him my Lord's resolutions about his title, which he had chosen,
and that is Portsmouth.

     [Montagu changed his mind, and ultimately took his title from the
     town of Sandwich, leaving that of Portsmouth for the use of a King's
     mistress.]

I met with Mr. Throgmorton, a merchant, who went with me to the old Three
Tuns, at Charing Cross, who did give me five pieces of gold for to do him
a small piece of service about a convoy to Bilbo, which I did.  In the
afternoon, one Mr. Watts came to me, a merchant, to offer me L500 if I
would desist from the Clerk of the Acts place.  I pray God direct me in
what I do herein.  Went to my house, where I found my father, and carried
him and my wife to Whitefriars, and myself to Puddlewharf, to the
Wardrobe, to Mr. Townsend, who went with me to Backwell, the goldsmith's,
and there we chose L100 worth of plate for my Lord to give Secretary
Nicholas.  Back and staid at my father's, and so home to bed.

27th.  With my Lord to the Duke, where he spoke to Mr. Coventry to
despatch my business of the Acts, in which place every body gives me joy,
as if I were in it, which God send.

     [The letters patent, dated July 13th, 12 Charles II., recite and
     revoke letters patent of February 16th, 14 Charles I., whereby the
     office of Clerk of the Ships had been given to Dennis Fleming and
     Thomas Barlow, or the survivor.  D. F. was then dead, but T. B.
     living, and Samuel Pepys was appointed in his room, at a salary of
     L33 6s. 8d. per annum, with 3s. 4d. for each day employed in
     travelling, and L6 per annum for boathire, and all fees due.  This
     salary was only the ancient "fee out of the Exchequer," which had
     been attached to the office for more than a century.  Pepys's salary
     had been previously fixed at L350 a year.]

Dined with my Lord and all the officers of his regiment, who invited my
Lord and his friends, as many as he would bring, to dinner, at the Swan,
at Dowgate, a poor house and ill dressed, but very good fish and plenty.
Here Mr. Symons, the Surgeon, told me how he was likely to lose his estate
that he had bought, at which I was not a little pleased.  To Westminster,
and with Mr. Howe by coach to the Speaker's, where my Lord supped with the
King, but I could not get in.  So back again, and after a song or two in
my chamber in the dark, which do (now that the bed is out) sound very
well, I went home and to bed.

28th.  My brother Tom came to me with patterns to choose for a suit.  I
paid him all to this day, and did give him L10 upon account.  To Mr.
Coventry, who told me that he would do me all right in my business.  To
Sir G. Downing, the first visit I have made him since he came.  He is so
stingy a fellow I care not to see him; I quite cleared myself of his
office, and did give him liberty to take any body in.  Hawly and he are
parted too, he is going to serve Sir Thos. Ingram.  I went also this
morning to see Mrs. Pierce, the chirurgeon['s wife].  I found her in bed
in her house in Margaret churchyard.  Her husband returned to sea.  I did
invite her to go to dinner with me and my wife to-day.  After all this to
my Lord, who lay a-bed till eleven o'clock, it being almost five before he
went to bed, they supped so late last night with the King.  This morning I
saw poor Bishop Wren

     [Matthew Wren, born 1585, successively Bishop of Hereford, Norwich,
     and Ely.  At the commencement of the Rebellion he was sent to the
     Tower, and remained a prisoner there eighteen years.  Died April
     24th, 1667.]

going to Chappel, it being a thanksgiving-day

     ["A Proclamation for setting apart a day of Solemn and Publick
     Thanksgiving throughout the whole Kingdom," dated June 5th, 1660.]

for the King's return.  After my Lord was awake, I went up to him to the
Nursery, where he do lie, and, having talked with him a little, I took
leave and carried my wife and Mrs. Pierce to Clothworkers'-Hall, to
dinner, where Mr. Pierce, the Purser, met us.  We were invited by Mr.
Chaplin, the Victualler, where Nich. Osborne was.  Our entertainment very
good, a brave hall, good company, and very good music.  Where among other
things I was pleased that I could find out a man by his voice, whom I had
never seen before, to be one that sang behind the curtaine formerly at Sir
W. Davenant's opera.  Here Dr. Gauden and Mr. Gauden the victualler dined
with us.  After dinner to Mr. Rawlinson's,

     [Daniel Rawlinson kept the Mitre in Fenchurch Street, and there is a
     farthing token of his extant, "At the Mitetr in Fenchurch Streete,
     D. M. R."  The initials stand for Daniel and Margaret Rawlinson (see
     "Boyne's Trade Tokens," ed.  Williamson, vol. i., 1889, p. 595) In
     "Reliquiae Hearnianae" (ed.  Bliss, 1869, vol. ii.  p. 39) is the
     following extract from Thomas Rawlinson's Note Book R.: "Of Daniel
     Rawlinson, my grandfather, who kept the Mitre tavern in Fenchurch
     Street, and of whose being sequestred in the Rump time I have heard
     much, the Whiggs tell this, that upon the king's murder he hung his
     signe in mourning.  He certainly judged right.  The honour of the
     Mitre was much eclipsed through the loss of so good a parent of the
     church of England.  These rogues say, this endeared him so much to
     the churchmen that he soon throve amain and got a good estate."
     Mrs. Rawlinson died of the plague (see August 9th, 1666), and the
     house was burnt in the Great Fire.  Mr. Rawlinson rebuilt the Mitre,
     and he had the panels of the great room painted with allegorical
     figures by Isaac Fuller.  Daniel was father of Sir Thomas Rawlinson,
     of whom Thomas Hearne writes (October 1st, 1705): "Sir Thomas
     Rawlinson is chosen Lord Mayor of London for ye ensueing
     notwithstanding the great opposition of ye Whigg party" (Hearne's
     "Collections," ed. Doble, 1885, vol. i.  p. 51).  The well-known
     antiquaries, Thomas and Richard Rawlinson, sons of Sir Thomas, were
     therefore grandsons of Daniel.]

to see him and his wife, and would have gone to my Aunt Wight, but that
her only child, a daughter, died last night.  Home and to my Lord, who
supped within, and Mr. E. Montagu, Mr. Thos. Crew, and others with him sat
up late.  I home and to bed.

29th.  This day or two my maid Jane--[Jane Wayneman.]--has been lame, that
we cannot tell what to do for want of her.  Up and to White Hall, where I
got my warrant from the Duke to be Clerk of the Acts.  Also I got my
Lord's warrant from the Secretary for his honour of Earle of Portsmouth,
and Viscount Montagu of Hinchingbroke.  So to my Lord, to give him an
account of what I had done.  Then to Sir Geffery Palmer, to give them to
him to have bills drawn upon them, who told me that my Lord must have some
good Latinist to make the preamble to his Patent, which must express his
late service in the best terms that he can, and he told me in what high
flaunting terms Sir J. Greenville had caused his to be done, which he do
not like; but that Sir Richard Fanshawe had done General Monk's very well.
Back to Westminster, and meeting Mr. Townsend in the Palace, he and I and
another or two went and dined at the Leg there.  Then to White Hall, where
I was told by Mr. Hutchinson at the Admiralty, that Mr. Barlow, my
predecessor, Clerk of the Acts, is yet alive, and coming up to town to
look after his place, which made my heart sad a little.  At night told my
Lord thereof, and he bade me get possession of my Patent; and he would do
all that could be done to keep him out.  This night my Lord and I looked
over the list of the Captains,. and marked some that my Lord had a mind to
have put out.  Home and to bed.  Our wench very lame, abed these two days.

30th.  By times to Sir R. Fanshawe to draw up the preamble to my Lord's
Patent.  So to my Lord, and with him to White Hall, where I saw a great
many fine antique heads of marble, that my Lord Northumberland had given
the King.  Here meeting with Mr. De Cretz, he looked over many of the
pieces, in the gallery with me and told me [by] whose hands they were,
with great pleasure.  Dined at home and Mr. Hawly with me upon six of my
pigeons, which my wife has resolved to kill here.  This day came Will,

     [William Wayneman was constantly getting into trouble, and Pepys had
     to cane him.  He was dismissed on July 7th, 1663.]

my boy, to me; the wench continuing lame, so that my wife could not be
longer without somebody to help her.  In the afternoon with Sir Edward
Walker, at his lodgings by St. Giles Church, for my Lord's pedigree, and
carried it to Sir R. Fanshawe.  To Mr. Crew's, and there took money and
paid Mrs. Anne, Mrs. Jemima's maid, off quite, and so she went away and
another came to her.  To White Hall with Mr. Moore, where I met with a
letter from Mr. Turner, offering me L150 to be joined with me in my
patent, and to advise me how to improve the advantage of my place, and to
keep off Barlow.  To my Lord's till late at night, and so home.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 JULY
                                 1660

July 1st.  This morning came home my fine Camlett cloak,

     [Camlet was a mixed stuff of wool and silk.  It was very expensive,
     and later Pepys gave L24 for a suit.  (See June 1st, 1664.)]

with gold buttons, and a silk suit, which cost me much money, and I pray
God to make me able to pay for it.  I went to the cook's and got a good
joint of meat, and my wife and I dined at home alone.  In the afternoon to
the Abbey, where a good sermon by a stranger, but no Common Prayer yet.
After sermon called in at Mrs. Crisp's, where I saw Mynheer Roder, that is
to marry Sam Hartlib's sister, a great fortune for her to light on, she
being worth nothing in the world.  Here I also saw Mrs. Greenlife, who is
come again to live in Axe Yard with her new husband Mr. Adams.  Then to my
Lord's, where I staid a while.  So to see for Mr. Creed to speak about
getting a copy of Barlow's patent.  To my Lord's, where late at night
comes Mr. Morland, whom I left prating with my Lord, and so home.

2nd.  Infinite of business that my heart and head and all were full. Met
with purser Washington, with whom and a lady, a friend of his, I dined at
the Bell Tavern in King Street, but the rogue had no more manners than to
invite me and to let me pay my club.  All the afternoon with my Lord,
going up and down the town; at seven at night he went home, and there the
principal Officers of the Navy,

     [A list of the Officers of the Admiralty, May 31st, 1660.  From a
     MS. in the Pepysian Library in Pepys's own handwriting.
     His Royal Highness James, Duke of York, Lord High Admiral.
     Sir George Carteret, Treasurer.
     Sir Robert Slingsby, (soon after) Comptroller.
     Sir William Batten, Surveyor.
     Samuel Pepys, Esq., Clerk of the Acts.

     John, Lord Berkeley (of Stratton,)|
     Sir William Penn,                 | Commissioners.
     Peter Pett, Esq.--B,]             |

among the rest myself was reckoned one.  We had order to meet to-morrow,
to draw up such an order of the Council as would put us into action before
our patents were passed.  At which my heart was glad.  At night supped
with my Lord, he and I together, in the great dining-room alone by
ourselves, the first time I ever did it in London.  Home to bed, my maid
pretty well again.

3d.  All the morning the Officers and Commissioners of the Navy, we met at
Sir G. Carteret's

     [Sir George Carteret, born 1599, had originally been bred to the sea
     service, and became Comptroller of the Navy to Charles I., and
     Governor of Jersey, where he obtained considerable reputation by his
     gallant defence of that island against the Parliament forces.  At
     the Restoration he was made Vice-Chamberlain to the King, Treasurer
     of the Navy, and a Privy Councillor, and in 1661 he was elected M.P.
     for Portsmouth.  In 1666 he exchanged the Treasurership of the Navy
     with the Earl of Anglesea for the Vice-Treasurership of Ireland.  He
     became a Commissioner of the Admiralty in 1673.  He continued in
     favour with Charles II. till his death, January 14th, 1679, in his
     eightieth year.  He married his cousin Elizabeth, daughter of Sir
     Philip Carteret, Knight of St. Ouen, and had issue three sons and
     five daughters.]

chamber, and agreed upon orders for the Council to supersede the old ones,
and empower us to act.  Dined with Mr. Stephens, the Treasurer's man of
the Navy, and Mr. Turner, to whom I offered L50 out of my own purse for
one year, and the benefit of a Clerk's allowance beside, which he thanked
me for; but I find he hath some design yet in his head, which I could not
think of.  In the afternoon my heart was quite pulled down, by being told
that Mr. Barlow was to enquire to-day for Mr. Coventry; but at night I met
with my Lord, who told me that I need not fear, for he would get me the
place against the world.  And when I came to W. Howe, he told me that Dr.
Petty had been with my Lord, and did tell him that Barlow was a sickly
man, and did not intend to execute the place himself, which put me in
great comfort again.  Till 2 in the morning writing letters and things for
my Lord to send to sea.  So home to my wife to bed.

4th.  Up very early in the morning and landing my wife at White Friars
stairs, I went to the Bridge and so to the Treasurer's of the Navy, with
whom I spake about the business of my office, who put me into very good
hopes of my business.  At his house comes Commissioner Pett, and he and I
went to view the houses in Seething Lane, belonging to the Navy,

     [The Navy Office was erected on the site of Lumley House, formerly
     belonging to the Fratres Sancta Crucis (or Crutched Friars), and all
     business connected with naval concerns was transacted there till its
     removal to Somerset House.--The ground was afterwards occupied by
     the East India Company's warehouses.  The civil business of the
     Admiralty was removed from Somerset House to Spring Gardens in
     1869.]

where I find the worst very good, and had great fears in my mind that they
will shuffle me out of them, which troubles me.  From thence to the Excise
Office in Broad Street, where I received L500 for my Lord, by appointment
of the Treasurer, and went afterwards down with Mr. Luddyard and drank my
morning draft with him and other officers.  Thence to Mr. Backewell's, the
goldsmith, where I took my Lord's L100 in plate for Mr. Secretary
Nicholas, and my own piece of plate, being a state dish and cup in chased
work for Mr. Coventry, cost me above L19.  Carried these and the money by
coach to my Lord's at White Hall, and from thence carried Nicholas's plate
to his house and left it there, intending to speak with him anon.  So to
Westminster Hall, where meeting with M. L'Impertinent and W. Bowyer, I
took them to the Sun Tavern, and gave them a lobster and some wine, and
sat talking like a fool till 4 o'clock.  So to my Lord's, and walking all
the afternoon in White Hall Court, in expectation of what shall be done in
the Council as to our business.  It was strange to see how all the people
flocked together bare, to see the King looking out of the Council window.
At night my Lord told me how my orders that I drew last night about giving
us power to act, are granted by the Council.  At which he and I were very
glad.  Home and to bed, my boy lying in my house this night the first
time.

5th.  This morning my brother Tom brought me my jackanapes coat with
silver buttons.  It rained this morning, which makes us fear that the
glory of this great day will be lost; the King and Parliament being to be
entertained by the City to-day with great pomp.

     ["July 5th.  His Majesty, the two Dukes, the House of Lords, and the
     House of Commons, and the Privy Council, dined at the Guildhall.
     Every Hall appeared with their colours and streamers to attend His
     Majesty; the Masters in gold chains.  Twelve pageants in the streets
     between Temple Bar and Guildhall.  Forty brace of bucks were that
     day spent in the City of London."--Rugge's Diurnal.--B.]

Mr. Hater' was with me to-day, and I agreed with him to be my clerk.

     [Thomas Hayter.  He remained with Pepys for some time; and by his
     assistance was made Petty Purveyor of Petty Missions.  He succeeded
     Pepys as Clerk of the Acts in 1673, and in 1679 he was Secretary of
     the Admiralty, and Comptroller of the Navy from 1680 to 1682.]

Being at White Hall, I saw the King, the Dukes, and all their attendants
go forth in the rain to the City, and it bedraggled many a fine suit of
clothes.  I was forced to walk all the morning in White Hall, not knowing
how to get out because of the rain.  Met with Mr. Cooling, my Lord
Chamberlain's secretary, who took me to dinner among the gentlemen
waiters, and after dinner into the wine-cellar.  He told me how he had a
project for all us Secretaries to join together, and get money by bringing
all business into our hands.  Thence to the Admiralty, where Mr.
Blackburne and I (it beginning to hold up) went and walked an hour or two
in the Park, he giving of me light in many things in my way in this office
that I go about.  And in the evening I got my present of plate carried to
Mr. Coventry's.  At my Lord's at night comes Dr. Petty to me, to tell me
that Barlow had come to town, and other things, which put me into a
despair, and I went to bed very sad.

6th.  In the morning with my Lord at Whitehall, got the order of the
Council for us to act.  From thence to Westminster Hall, and there met
with the Doctor that shewed us so much kindness at the Hague, and took him
to the Sun tavern, and drank with him.  So to my Lord's and dined with W.
Howe and Sarah, thinking it might be the last time that I might dine with
them together.  In the afternoon my Lord and I, and Mr. Coventry and Sir
G. Carteret, went and took possession of the Navy Office, whereby my mind
was a little cheered, but my hopes not great. From thence Sir G. Carteret
and I to the Treasurer's Office, where he set some things in order.  And
so home, calling upon Sir Geoffry Palmer, who did give me advice about my
patent, which put me to some doubt to know what to do, Barlow being alive.
Afterwards called at Mr. Pim's, about getting me a coat of velvet, and he
took me to the Half Moon, and the house so full that we staid above half
an hour before we could get anything.  So to my Lord's, where in the dark
W. Howe and I did sing extemporys, and I find by use that we are able to
sing a bass and a treble pretty well.  So home, and to bed.

7th.  To my Lord, one with me to buy a Clerk's place, and I did demand
L100.  To the Council Chamber, where I took an order for the advance of
the salaries of the officers of the Navy, and I find mine to be raised to
L350 per annum.  Thence to the Change, where I bought two fine prints of
Ragotti from Rubens, and afterwards dined with my Uncle and Aunt Wight,
where her sister Cox and her husband were.  After that to Mr. Rawlinson's
with my uncle, and thence to the Navy Office, where I began to take an
inventory of the papers, and goods, and books of the office.  To my
Lord's, late writing letters.  So home to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  To White Hall chapel, where I got in with ease by going
before the Lord Chancellor with Mr. Kipps.  Here I heard very good music,
the first time that ever I remember to have heard the organs and
singing-men in surplices in my life.

     [During the Commonwealth organs were destroyed all over the country,
     and the following is the title of the Ordinances under which this
     destruction took place: "Two Ordinances of the Lords and Commons
     assembled in Parliament, for the speedy demolishing of all organs,
     images, and all matters of superstitious monuments in all Cathedrals
     and Collegiate or Parish Churches and Chapels throughout the Kingdom
     of England and the dominion of Wales; the better to accomplish the
     blessed reformation so happily begun, and to remove all offences and
     things illegal in the worship of God.  Dated May 9th, 1644."  When
     at the period of the Restoration music again obtained its proper
     place in the services of the Church, there was much work for the
     organ builders.  According to Dr. Rimbault ("Hopkins on the Organ,"
     1855, p. 74), it was more than fifty years after the Restoration
     when our parish churches began commonly to be supplied with organs.
     Drake says, in his "Eboracum" (published in 1733), that at that date
     only one parish church in the city of York possessed an organ.
     Bernard Schmidt, better known as "Father Smith," came to England
     from Germany at the time of the Restoration, and he it was who built
     the organ at the Chapel Royal.  He was in high favour with Charles
     II., who allowed, him apartments in Whitehall Palace.]

The Bishop of Chichester preached before the King, and made a great
flattering sermon, which I did not like that Clergy should meddle with
matters of state.  Dined with Mr. Luellin and Salisbury at a cook's shop.
Home, and staid all the afternoon with my wife till after sermon.  There
till Mr. Fairebrother came to call us out to my father's to supper.  He
told me how he had perfectly procured me to be made Master in Arts by
proxy, which did somewhat please me, though I remember my cousin Roger
Pepys was the other day persuading me from it.  While we were at supper
came Win. Howe to supper to us, and after supper went home to bed.

9th.  All the morning at Sir G. Palmer's advising about getting my bill
drawn.  From thence to the Navy office, where in the afternoon we met and
sat, and there I begun to sign bills in the Office the first time.  From
thence Captain Holland and Mr. Browne of Harwich took me to a tavern and
did give me a collation.  From thence to the Temple to further my bills
being done, and so home to my Lord, and thence to bed.

10th.  This day I put on first my new silk suit, the first that ever I
wore in my life.  This morning came Nan Pepys' husband Mr. Hall to see me
being lately come to town.  I had never seen him before.  I took him to
the Swan tavern with Mr. Eglin and there drank our morning draft.  Home,
and called my wife, and took her to Dr. Clodius's to a great wedding of
Nan Hartlib to Mynheer Roder, which was kept at Goring House with very
great state, cost, and noble company.  But, among all the beauties there,
my wife was thought the greatest.  After dinner I left the company, and
carried my wife to Mrs. Turner's.  I went to the Attorney-General's, and
had my bill which cost me seven pieces.  I called my wife, and set her
home.  And finding my Lord in White Hall garden, I got him to go to the
Secretary's, which he did, and desired the dispatch of his and my bills to
be signed by the King.  His bill is to be Earl of Sandwich, Viscount
Hinchingbroke, and Baron of St. Neot's.

     [The motive for Sir Edward Montagu's so suddenly altering his
     intended title is not explained; probably, the change was adopted as
     a compliment to the town of Sandwich, off which the Fleet was lying
     before it sailed to bring Charles from Scheveling.  Montagu had also
     received marked attentions from Sir John Boys and other principal
     men at Sandwich; and it may be recollected, as an additional reason,
     that one or both of the seats for that borough have usually been
     placed at the disposal of the Admiralty.  The title of Portsmouth
     was given, in 1673, for her life, to the celebrated Louise de
     Querouaille, and becoming extinct with her, was, in 1743, conferred
     upon John Wallop, Viscount Lymington, the ancestor of the present
     Earl of Portsmouth.--B.]

Home, with my mind pretty quiet: not returning, as I said I would, to see
the bride put to bed.

11th.  With Sir W. Pen by water to the Navy office, where we met, and
dispatched business.  And that being done, we went all to dinner to the
Dolphin, upon Major Brown's invitation.  After that to the office again,
where I was vexed, and so was Commissioner Pett, to see a busy fellow come
to look out the best lodgings for my Lord Barkley, and the combining
between him and Sir W. Pen; and, indeed, was troubled much at it.  Home to
White Hall, and took out my bill signed by the King, and carried it to Mr.
Watkins of the Privy Seal to be despatched there, and going home to take a
cap, I borrowed a pair of sheets of Mr. Howe, and by coach went to the
Navy office, and lay (Mr. Hater, my clerk, with me) at Commissioner
Willoughby's' house, where I was received by him very civilly and slept
well.

12th.  Up early and by coach to White Hall with Commissioner Pett, where,
after we had talked with my Lord, I went to the Privy Seal and got my bill
perfected there, and at the Signet: and then to the House of Lords, and
met with Mr. Kipps, who directed me to Mr. Beale to get my patent
engrossed; but he not having time to get it done in Chancery-hand, I was
forced to run all up and down Chancery-lane, and the Six Clerks' Office

     [The Six Clerks' Office was in Chancery Lane, near the Holborn end.
     The business of the office was to enrol commissions, pardons,
     patents, warrants, &c., that had passed the Great Seal; also other
     business in Chancery.  In the early history of the Court of
     Chancery, the Six Clerks and their under-clerks appear to have acted
     as the attorneys of the suitors.  As business increased, these
     under-clerks became a distinct body, and were recognized by the
     court under the denomination of 'sworn clerks,' or 'clerks in
     court.'  The advance of commerce, with its consequent accession of
     wealth, so multiplied the subjects requiring the judgment of a Court
     of Equity, that the limits of a public office were found wholly
     inadequate to supply a sufficient number of officers to conduct the
     business of the suitors.  Hence originated the 'Solicitors' of the
     "Court of Chancery."  See Smith's "Chancery Practice," p. 62, 3rd
     edit.  The "Six Clerks" were abolished by act of Parliament,
     5 Vict.  c. 5.]

but could find none that could write the hand, that were at leisure.  And
so in a despair went to the Admiralty, where we met the first time there,
my Lord Montagu, my Lord Barkley, Mr. Coventry, and all the rest of the
principal Officers and Commissioners, [except] only the Controller, who is
not yet chosen.  At night to Mr. Kipps's lodgings, but not finding him, I
went to Mr. Spong's and there I found him and got him to come to me to my
Lord's lodgings at 11 o'clock of night, when I got him to take my bill to
write it himself (which was a great providence that he could do it)
against to-morrow morning.  I late writing letters to sea by the post, and
so home to bed.  In great trouble because I heard at Mr. Beale's to-day
that Barlow had been there and said that he would make a stop in the
business.

13th.  Up early, the first day that I put on my black camlett coat with
silver buttons.  To Mr. Spong, whom I found in his night-down writing of
my patent, and he had done as far as he could "for that &c." by 8 o'clock.
It being done, we carried it to Worcester House to the Chancellor, where
Mr. Kipps (a strange providence that he should now be in a condition to do
me a kindness, which I never thought him capable of doing for me), got me
the Chancellor's recepi to my bill; and so carried it to Mr. Beale for a
dockett; but he was very angry, and unwilling to do it, because he said it
was ill writ (because I had got it writ by another hand, and not by him);
but by much importunity I got Mr. Spong to go to his office and make an
end of my patent; and in the mean time Mr. Beale to be preparing my
dockett, which being done, I did give him two pieces, after which it was
strange how civil and tractable he was to me.  From thence I went to the
Navy office, where we despatched much business, and resolved of the houses
for the Officers and Commissioners, which I was glad of, and I got leave
to have a door made me into the leads.  From thence, much troubled in mind
about my patent, I went to Mr. Beale again, who had now finished my patent
and made it ready for the Seal, about an hour after I went to meet him at
the Chancellor's.  So I went away towards Westminster, and in my way met
with Mr. Spong, and went with him to Mr. Lilly and ate some bread and
cheese, and drank with him, who still would be giving me council of
getting my patent out, for fear of another change, and my Lord Montagu's
fall.  After that to Worcester House, where by Mr. Kipps's means, and my
pressing in General Montagu's name to the Chancellor, I did, beyond all
expectation, get my seal passed; and while it was doing in one room, I was
forced to keep Sir G. Carteret (who by chance met me there, ignorant of my
business) in talk, while it was a doing.  Went home and brought my wife
with me into London, and some money, with which I paid Mr. Beale L9 in
all, and took my patent of him and went to my wife again, whom I had left
in a coach at the door of Hinde Court, and presented her with my patent at
which she was overjoyed; so to the Navy office, and showed her my house,
and were both mightily pleased at all things there, and so to my business.
So home with her, leaving her at her mother's door.  I to my Lord's, where
I dispatched an order for a ship to fetch Sir R. Honywood home, for which
I got two pieces of my Lady Honywood by young Mr. Powell.  Late writing
letters; and great doings of music at the next house, which was Whally's;
the King and Dukes there with Madame Palmer,

     [Barbara Villiers, only child of William, second Viscount Grandison,
     born November, 1640, married April 14th, 1659, to Roger Palmer,
     created Earl of Castlemaine, 1661.  She became the King's mistress
     soon after the Restoration, and was in 1670 made Baroness Nonsuch,
     Countess of Southampton, and Duchess of Cleveland.  She had six
     children by the King, one of them being created Duke of Grafton, and
     the eldest son succeeding her as Duke of Cleveland.  She
     subsequently married Beau Fielding, whom she prosecuted for bigamy.
     She died October 9th, 1709, aged sixty-nine.  Her life was written
     by G. Steinman Steinman, and privately printed 1871, with addenda
     1874, and second addenda 1878.]

a pretty woman that they have a fancy to, to make her husband a cuckold.
Here at the old door that did go into his lodgings, my Lord, I, and W.
Howe, did stand listening a great while to the music.  After that home to
bed.  This day I should have been at Guildhall to have borne witness for
my brother Hawly against Black Collar, but I could not, at which I was
troubled.  To bed with the greatest quiet of mind that I have had a great
while, having ate nothing but a bit of bread and cheese at Lilly's to-day,
and a bit of bread and butter after I was a-bed.

14th.  Up early and advised with my wife for the putting of all our things
in a readiness to be sent to our new house.  To my Lord's, where he was in
bed very late.  So with Major Tollhurst and others to Harper's, and I sent
for my barrel of pickled oysters and there ate them; while we were doing
so, comes in Mr. Pagan Fisher; the poet, and promises me what he had long
ago done, a book in praise of the King of France, with my armes, and a
dedication to me very handsome.  After him comes Mr. Sheply come from sea
yesterday, whom I was glad to see that he may ease me of the trouble of my
Lord's business.  So to my Lord's, where I staid doing his business and
taking his commands.  After that to Westminster Hall, where I paid all my
debts in order to my going away from hence.  Here I met with Mr. Eglin,
who would needs take me to the Leg in King Street and gave me a dish of
meat to dinner; and so I sent for Mons. L'Impertinent, where we sat long
and were merry.  After that parted, and I took Mr. Butler [Mons.
L'Impertinent] with me into London by coach and shewed him my house at the
Navy Office, and did give order for the laying in coals. So into Fenchurch
Street, and did give him a glass of wine at Rawlinson's, and was trimmed
in the street.  So to my Lord's late writing letters, and so home, where
I found my wife had packed up all her goods in the house fit for a
removal.  So to bed.

15th.  Lay long in bed to recover my rest.  Going forth met with Mr.
Sheply, and went and drank my morning draft with him at Wilkinson's, and
my brother Spicer.--[Jack Spicer, brother clerk of the Privy Seal.]--After
that to Westminster Abbey, and in Henry the Seventh's Chappell heard part
of a sermon, the first that ever I heard there.  To my Lord's and dined
all alone at the table with him.  After dinner he and I alone fell to
discourse, and I find him plainly to be a sceptic in all things of
religion, and to make no great matter of anything therein, but to be a
perfect Stoic.  In the afternoon to Henry the Seventh's Chappell, where I
heard service and a sermon there, and after that meeting W. Bowyer there,
he and I to the Park, and walked a good while till night.  So to Harper's
and drank together, and Captain Stokes came to us and so I fell into
discourse of buying paper at the first hand in my office, and the Captain
promised me to buy it for me in France.  After that to my Lord's lodgings,
where I wrote some business and so home.  My wife at home all the day, she
having no clothes out, all being packed up yesterday.  For this month I
have wholly neglected anything of news, and so have beyond belief been
ignorant how things go, but now by my patent my mind is in some quiet,
which God keep.  I was not at my father's to-day, I being afraid to go for
fear he should still solicit me to speak to my Lord for a place in the
Wardrobe, which I dare not do, because of my own business yet.  My wife
and I mightily pleased with our new house that we hope to have.  My patent
has cost me a great deal of money, about L40, which is the only thing at
present which do trouble me much.  In the afternoon to Henry the Seventh's
chapel, where I heard a sermon and spent (God forgive me) most of my time
in looking upon Mrs. Butler.  After that with W. Bowyer to walk in the
Park.  Afterwards to my Lord's lodgings, and so home to bed, having not
been at my father's to-day.

16th, This morning it proved very rainy weather so that I could not remove
my goods to my house.  I to my office and did business there, and so home,
it being then sunrise, but by the time that I got to my house it began to
rain again, so that I could not carry my goods by cart as I would have
done.  After that to my Lord's and so home and to bed.

17th.  This morning (as indeed all the mornings nowadays) much business at
my Lord's.  There came to my house before I went out Mr. Barlow, an old
consumptive man, and fair conditioned, with whom I did discourse a great
while, and after much talk I did grant him what he asked, viz., L50 per
annum, if my salary be not increased, and (100 per annum, in case it be to
L350), at which he was very well pleased to be paid as I received my money
and not otherwise.  Going to my Lord's I found my Lord had got a great
cold and kept his bed, and so I brought him to my Lord's bedside, and he
and I did agree together to this purpose what I should allow him. That
done and the day proving fair I went home and got all my goods packed up
and sent away, and my wife and I and Mrs. Hunt went by coach, overtaking
the carts a-drinking in the Strand.  Being come to my house and set in the
goods, and at night sent my wife and Mrs. Hunt to buy something for
supper; they bought a Quarter of Lamb, and so we ate it, but it was not
half roasted.  Will, Mr. Blackburne's nephew, is so obedient, that I am
greatly glad of him.  At night he and I and Mrs. Hunt home by water to
Westminster.  I to my Lord, and after having done some business with him
in his chamber in the Nursery, which has been now his chamber since he
came from sea, I went on foot with a linkboy to my home, where I found my
wife in bed and Jane washing the house, and Will the boy sleeping, and a
great deal of sport I had before I could wake him.  I to bed the first
night that I ever lay here with my wife.

18th.  This morning the carpenter made an end of my door out of my chamber
upon the leads.

This morning we met at the office: I dined at my house in Seething Lane,
and after that, going about 4 o'clock to Westminster, I met with Mr.
Carter and Mr. Cooke coming to see me in a coach, and so I returned home.
I did also meet with Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, with a porter with him, with
a barrel of Lemons, which my man Burr sends me from sea.  I took all these
people home to my house and did give them some drink, and after them comes
Mr. Sheply, and after a little stay we all went by water to Westminster as
far as the New Exchange.  Thence to my Lord about business, and being in
talk in comes one with half a buck from Hinchinbroke, and it smelling a
little strong my Lord did give it me (though it was as good as any could
be).  I did carry it to my mother, where I had not been a great while, and
indeed had no great mind to go, because my father did lay upon me
continually to do him a kindness at the Wardrobe, which I could not do
because of my own business being so fresh with my Lord.  But my father was
not at home, and so I did leave the venison with her to dispose of as she
pleased.  After that home, where  W. Hewer now was, and did lie this night
with us, the first night. My mind very quiet, only a little trouble I have
for the great debts which I have still upon me to the Secretary, Mr.
Kipps, and Mr. Spong for my patent.

19th.  I did lie late a-bed.  I and my wife by water, landed her at
Whitefriars with her boy with an iron of our new range which is already
broke and my wife will have changed, and many other things she has to buy
with the help of my father to-day.  I to my Lord and found him in bed.
This day I received my commission to swear people the oath of allegiance
and supremacy delivered me by my Lord.  After talk with my Lord I went to
Westminster Hall, where I took Mr. Michell and his wife, and Mrs. Murford
we sent for afterwards, to the Dog Tavern, where I did give them a dish of
anchovies and olives and paid for all, and did talk of our old discourse
when we did use to talk of the King, in the time of the Rump, privately;
after that to the Admiralty Office, in White Hall, where I staid and writ
my last observations for these four days last past.  Great talk of the
difference between the Episcopal and Presbyterian Clergy, but I believe it
will come to nothing.  So home and to bed.

20th.  We sat at the office this morning, Sir W. Batten and Mr. Pett being
upon a survey to Chatham.  This morning I sent my wife to my father's and
he is to give me L5 worth of pewter.  After we rose at the office, I went
to my father's, where my Uncle Fenner and all his crew and Captain Holland
and his wife and my wife were at dinner at a venison pasty of the venison
that I did give my mother the other day.  I did this time show so much
coldness to W. Joyce that I believe all the table took notice of it.
After that to Westminster about my Lord's business and so home, my Lord
having not been well these two or three days, and I hear that Mr. Barnwell
at Hinchinbroke is fallen sick again.  Home and to bed.

21st.  This morning Mr. Barlow had appointed for me to bring him what form
I would have the agreement between him and me to pass, which I did to his
lodgings at the Golden Eagle in the new street--[Still retains the name
New Street.]--between Fetter Lane and Shoe Lane, where he liked it very
well, and I from him went to get Mr. Spong to engross it in duplicates.
To my Lord and spoke to him about the business of the Privy Seal for me to
be sworn, though I got nothing by it, but to do Mr. Moore a kindness,
which he did give me a good answer to.  Went to the Six Clerks' office to
Mr. Spong for the writings, and dined with him at a club at the next door,
where we had three voices to sing catches.  So to my house to write
letters and so to Whitehall about business of my Lord's concerning his
creation,--[As Earl of Sandwich.]--and so home and to bed.

22nd.  Lord's day.  All this last night it had rained hard.  My brother
Tom came this morning the first time to see me, and I paid him all that I
owe my father to this day.  Afterwards I went out and looked into several
churches, and so to my uncle Fenner's, whither my wife was got before me,
and we, my father and mother, and all the Joyces, and my aunt Bell, whom I
had not seen many a year before.  After dinner to White Hall (my wife to
church with K. Joyce), where I find my Lord at home, and walked in the
garden with him, he showing me all the respect that can be.  I left him
and went to walk in the Park, where great endeavouring to get into the
inward Park,--[This is still railed off from St. James's Park, and called
the Enclosure.]--but could not get in; one man was basted by the keeper,
for carrying some people over on his back through the water.  Afterwards
to my Lord's, where I staid and drank with Mr. Sheply, having first sent
to get a pair of oars.  It was the first time that ever I went by water on
the Lord's day.  Home, and at night had a chapter read; and I read prayers
out of the Common Prayer Book, the first time that ever I read prayers in
this house.  So to bed.

23rd.  This morning Mr. Barlow comes to me, and he and I went forth to a
scrivener in Fenchurch Street, whom we found sick of the gout in bed, and
signed and sealed our agreement before him.  He urged to have these words
(in consideration whereof) to be interlined, which I granted, though
against my will.  Met this morning at the office, and afterwards Mr.
Barlow by appointment came and dined with me, and both of us very pleasant
and pleased.  After dinner to my Lord, who took me to Secretary Nicholas,
and there before him and Secretary Morris, my Lord and I upon our knees
together took our oaths of Allegiance and Supremacy; and the Oath of the
Privy Seal, of which I was much glad, though I am not likely to get
anything by it at present; but I do desire it, for fear of a turn-out of
our office.  That done and my Lord gone from me, I went with Mr. Cooling
and his brother, and Sam Hartlibb, little Jennings and some others to the
King's Head Tavern at Charing Cross, where after drinking I took boat and
so home, where we supped merrily among ourselves (our little boy proving a
droll) and so after prayers to bed.  This day my Lord had heard that Mr.
Barnwell was dead, but it is not so yet, though he be very ill.  I was
troubled all this day with Mr. Cooke, being willing to do him good, but my
mind is so taken up with my own business that I cannot.

24th.  To White Hall, where I did acquaint Mr. Watkins with my being sworn
into the Privy Seal, at which he was much troubled, but put it up and did
offer me a kinsman of his to be my clerk, which I did give him some hope
of, though I never intend it.  In the afternoon I spent much time in
walking in White Hall Court with Mr. Bickerstaffe, who was very glad of my
Lord's being sworn, because of his business with his brother Baron, which
is referred to my Lord Chancellor, and to be ended to-morrow.  Baron had
got a grant beyond sea, to come in before the reversionary of the Privy
Seal.  This afternoon Mr. Mathews came to me, to get a certificate of my
Lord's and my being sworn, which I put in some forwardness, and so home
and to bed.

25th.  In the morning at the office, and after that down to Whitehall,
where I met with Mr. Creed, and with him and a Welsh schoolmaster, a good
scholar but a very pedagogue, to the ordinary at the Leg in King Street.'
I got my certificate of my Lord's and my being sworn.  This morning my
Lord took leave of the House of Commons, and had the thanks of the House
for his great services to his country.  In the afternoon (but this is a
mistake, for it was yesterday in the afternoon) Monsieur L'Impertinent and
I met and I took him to the Sun and drank with him, and in the evening
going away we met his mother and sisters and father coming from the
Gatehouse; where they lodge, where I did the first time salute them all,
and very pretty Madame Frances--[Frances Butler, the beauty.]--is indeed.
After that very late home and called in Tower Street, and there at a
barber's was trimmed the first time.  Home and to bed.

26th.  Early to White Hall, thinking to have a meeting of my Lord and the
principal officers, but my Lord could not, it being the day that he was to
go and be admitted in the House of Lords, his patent being done, which he
presented upon his knees to the Speaker; and so it was read in the House,
and he took his place.  I at the Privy Seal Office with Mr. Hooker, who
brought me acquainted with Mr. Crofts of the Signet, and I invited them to
a dish of meat at the Leg in King Street, and so we dined there and I paid
for all and had very good light given me as to my employment there.
Afterwards to Mr. Pierces, where I should have dined but I could not, but
found Mr. Sheply and W. Howe there.  After we had drunk hard we parted,
and I went away and met Dr. Castle, who is one of the Clerks of the Privy
Seal, and told him how things were with my Lord and me, which he received
very gladly.  I was this day told how Baron against all expectation and
law has got the place of Bickerstaffe, and so I question whether he will
not lay claim to wait the next month, but my Lord tells me that he will
stand for it.  In the evening I met with T. Doling, who carried me to St.
James's Fair,

     [August, 1661: "This year the Fair, called St. James's Fair, was
     kept the full appointed time, being a fortnight; but during that
     time many lewd and infamous persons were by his Majesty's express
     command to the Lord Chamberlain, and his Lordship's direction to
     Robert Nelson, Esq., committed to the House of Correction."--Rugge's
     Diurnal.  St; James's fair was held first in the open space near St.
     James's Palace, and afterwards in St. James's Market.  It was
     prohibited by the Parliament in 1651, but revived at the
     Restoration.  It was, however, finally suppressed before the close
     of the reign of Charles II.]

and there meeting with W. Symons and his wife, and Luellin, and D.
Scobell's wife and cousin, we went to Wood's at the Pell Mell

     [This is one of the earliest references to Pall Mall as an inhabited
     street, and also one of the earliest uses of the word clubbing.]

(our old house for clubbing), and there we spent till 10 at night, at
which time I sent to my Lord's for my clerk Will to come to me, and so by
link home to bed.  Where I found Commissioner Willoughby had sent for all
his things away out of my bedchamber, which is a little disappointment,
but it is better than pay too dear for them.

27th: The last night Sir W. Batten and Sir W. Pen came to their houses at
the office.  Met this morning and did business till noon.  Dined at home
and from thence to my Lord's where Will, my clerk, and I were all the
afternoon making up my accounts, which we had done by night, and I find
myself worth about L100 after all my expenses.  At night I sent to W.
Bowyer to bring me L100, being that he had in his hands of my Lord's. in
keeping, out of which I paid Mr. Sheply all that remained due to my Lord
upon my balance, and took the rest home with me late at night.  We got a
coach, but the horses were tired and could not carry us farther than St.
Dunstan's.  So we 'light and took a link and so home weary to bed.

28th.  Early in the morning rose, and a boy brought me a letter from Poet
Fisher, who tells me that he is upon a panegyrique of the King, and
desired to borrow a piece of me; and I sent him half a piece.  To
Westminster, and there dined with Mr. Sheply and W. Howe, afterwards
meeting with Mr. Henson, who had formerly had the brave clock that went
with bullets (which is now taken away from him by the King, it being his
goods).

     [Some clocks are still made with a small ball, or bullet, on an
     inclined plane, which turns every minute.  The King's clocks
     probably dropped bullets.  Gainsborough the painter had a brother
     who was a dissenting minister at Henley-on-Thames, and possessed a
     strong genius for mechanics.  He invented a clock of a very peculiar
     construction, which, after his death, was deposited in the British
     Museum.  It told the hour by a little bell, and was kept in motion
     by a leaden bullet, which dropped from a spiral reservoir at the top
     of the clock, into a little ivory bucket.  This was so contrived as
     to discharge it at the bottom, and by means of a counter-weight was
     carried up to the top of the clock, where it received another
     bullet, which was discharged as the former.  This seems to have been
     an attempt at the perpetual motion.--Gentleman's Magazine, 1785,
     p. 931.--B.]

I went with him to the Swan Tavern and sent for Mr. Butler, who was now
all full of his high discourse in praise of Ireland, whither he and his
whole family are going by Coll. Dillon's persuasion, but so many lies I
never heard in praise of anything as he told of Ireland.  So home late at
night and to bed.

29th.  Lord's day.  I and my boy Will to Whitehall, and I with my Lord to
White Hall Chappell, where I heard a cold sermon of the Bishop of
Salisbury's, and the ceremonies did not please me, they do so overdo them.
My Lord went to dinner at Kensington with my Lord Camden.  So I dined and
took Mr. Birfett, my Lord's chaplain, and his friend along with me, with
Mr. Sheply at my Lord's.  In the afternoon with Dick Vines and his brother
Payton, we walked to Lisson Green and Marybone and back again, and finding
my Lord at home I got him to look over my accounts, which he did approve
of and signed them, and so we are even to this day. Of this I was glad,
and do think myself worth clear money about L120. Home late, calling in at
my father's without stay.  To bed.

30th.  Sat at our office to-day, and my father came this day the first
time to see us at my new office.  And Mrs. Crisp by chance came in and sat
with us, looked over our house and advised about the furnishing of it.
This afternoon I got my L50, due to me for my first quarter's salary as
Secretary to my Lord, paid to Tho. Hater for me, which he received and
brought home to me, of which I am full glad.  To Westminster and among
other things met with Mr. Moore, and took him and his friend, a bookseller
of Paul's Churchyard, to the Rhenish Winehouse, and drinking there the
sword-bearer of London (Mr. Man) came to ask for us, with whom we sat
late, discoursing about the worth of my office of Clerk of the Acts, which
he hath a mind to buy, and I asked four years' purchase.  We are to speak
more of it to-morrow.  Home on foot, and seeing him at home at Butler's
merry, he lent me a torch, which Will carried, and so home.

31st.  To White Hall, where my Lord and the principal officers met, and
had a great discourse about raising of money for the Navy, which is in
very sad condition, and money must be raised for it.  Mr. Blackburne, Dr.
Clerke, and I to the Quaker's and dined there.  I back to the Admiralty,
and there was doing things in order to the calculating of the debts of the
Navy and other business, all the afternoon.  At night I went to the Privy
Seal, where I found Mr. Crofts and Mathews making up all their things to
leave the office tomorrow, to those that come to wait the next month.  I
took them to the Sun Tavern and there made them drink, and discoursed
concerning the office, and what I was to expect tomorrow about Baron, who
pretends to the next month.  Late home by coach so far as Ludgate with Mr.
Mathews, and thence home on foot with W.  Hewer with me, and so to bed.