The Boa Constrictor is not a fascinating snake--far from it. He relies
on his muscles and not on his charms, for support. His appetite is
vigorous, and the manner in which he disposes of his tid-bits, such
as the larger carnivora, may be described as glutenous. Much has been
written of the creature, but a glance at his enormous volume will give a
truer idea of him than anything that has ever issued from the press.
He serves the body of an animal, before devouring it, as mercenary
politicians serve the body politic--crushing it with many Rings. By the
keepers of menageries he is often called the Boa _Constructor_, but the
name more aptly applies to the Furrier who simulates his shape on a
small scale; the creature having no mechanical skill whatever.

Occasionally, from some branch that overhangs a _Nullah_, he will drop
down on the thirsty eland or hartbeest, rendering resistance a Nullity;
but his favorite game is fighting the tiger, at which, unlike the human
species, he always wins when in the vein for that kind of sport. All the
beasts of the jungle fear him--the wolf feeling no disposition to seek
his folds, and the leopard frequently changing his spots to avoid him.
Whatever his quarry may be, its sands are soon run out.

The Boa, like other gourmands, is fond of gourmand-ease. After having
put a victim through the mill and bolted him for a meal, the monster may
be discovered (or he may not) on some knoll in the forest, indulging in
somnolency. He can then be assailed with safety, but as his breath is a
horrible fetor, a spice (of caution) should be used in approaching him.
The windward side is best. As he lies limber, smelling like Limburger,
a hatchet will be found a first-chop weapon of assault. The Hindoos,
however, generally double him up with Creeses. Cutting off the
creature's tail, just behind the jaws, is a pretty sure way to
ex-terminate him. There are on record several instances of Boas having
been despatched in this way by Ruthless adventurers.

The reptile abounds in Ceylon, and is considered a delicacy by the
Cingalese, but the civilized stomach would probably find Double Ease in
letting it alone. _Cotelette de Constrictor_, however pleasant to the
Pagan palate, would scarcely go down with a Christian.

High old stories of the Boa have been obtained by travellers, from the
Asiatics. They resemble those of the fabled dragon and hippogriff, and
as they generally relate to the ravaging of whole districts by the
voracious monster, a heap o' grief is connected with some of them. The
gum-game, however, is much in vogue in India, and most of these snake
stories may be characterized as India Rubbish.

The great Boa is a native of Southern Africa as well as of Asia, and is
much dreaded by all the Dutch Boers. The creature is reported to have
been seen in crossing the interior deserts, but this is believed to be
a fiction invented in the Caravans. In Congo there is a small species a
few sizes larger than the Conger eel, while in the section of country
visited by CUMMING the Boa is the biggest serpent Going.

There are stupendous snakes in the islands of the Indian Archipelago,
and a Yankee skipper who lived a year among the natives informs us that
he "once saw some arter a boa in Sumatra." The skipper, however, is a
small joker, and always ready to Sacrifice Truth on the Alter Ego of a
miserable pun. A vile habit this, but one that it is to be feared will
never be abandoned.

The skin of the Boa is rarely embroidered with purple and gold, but,
like many a priestly hypocrite, he hides under the livery of heaven the
instincts of the Devil. And so we dismiss him.


BITTER SARCASM

Canadians pronounce the sacred word "Sunburst" "Shunburst."


[Illustration: THE WEDDING RING, AS SOKOSIS WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT WORN.]


[ILLUSTRATION Description: Woman in Victorian dress with a small,
free-running dog on her left holding a leash in her right hand which
connects to a top-hatted man's nose ring. A sign behind them reads
"Socuety for the prevention of cruelty to husbands $500 fine"] [blank
page] [Illustration]


CONDENSED CONGRESS.

SENATE.

Ind-Hearted Mr. CHANDLER had a proposition "which would restore American
commerce to its former footing." It was simply to annex San Domingo,
Cuba, and Canada. He repudiated with scorn and disgust the insinuation
that he proposed to pay anything for them. That was foreign to his
nature. He meant merely to take them. By this means they would not only
restore American commerce--he din't profess to know exactly how--but
they would inflict a deadly blow upon haughty England. At this point Mr.
CHANDLER became incoherent, the only intelligible remark which reached
the reporters, being that he could "lick" Queen VICTORIA single-handed.

Mr. SUMNER remarked that a war with England would be costly.

Mr. CHANDLER declined to accept any suggestion from a man who went to
diplomatic dinners, and consorted with Englishmen. He had been told that
at these dinners, to which he was proud to say he had never gone, and to
which, while the custom of issuing invitations prevailed, he never
would go, Mr. SUMNER ate with his fork. Such a man could not be a true
American.

Mr. MORRILL introduced a bill to increase the mileage of members.
Notoriously, he observed, the mileage of members was scandalously small.
He knew that the self-sacrificing nature of the senators would delight
to pay this tribute to the fidelity of themselves, and the equally
deserving public servants of the other house. Passed with acclamations.

A resolution was introduced to appropriate a few millions towards the
discovery of the North Pole.

Mr. SAULSBURY said--Whazyoose?

Mr. SUMNER explained that it would be a good thing for science.

Mr. COLE explained that it would be an enormous thing for fishermen.

Mr. YATES explained that it would be a vast thing for "cobblers."

Mr. SAULSBURY said--Ah, B'gthing on Ice.

Mr. MORRILL moved to extend the Capitol grounds to the next lot.

Mr. YATES moved to extend them to Chicago.

Mr. MORTON moved to extend them to Indianapolis.

Mr. CHANDLER wildly shrieked Detroit.

Mr. SUMNER faintly murmured Boston.


HOUSE.

Somebody introduced a bill to pension the soldiers of 1812. Somebody
else wanted to amend it by providing that no soldier of 1812 who aided
and comforted the recent rebellion should get any pension.

Even Mr. BUTLER showed gleams of good feeling. He said that the lot of
these men was hard. They were liable to be brought out upon platforms
every Fourth of July, and obliged to sit and blink under patriotic
eloquence for hours. It was their dreadful lot subsequently to eat
public dinners in country taverns, which brought their gray hairs down
in sorrow and indigestion to the grave. The notion of these senile and
patriotic duffers aiding and comforting the rebellion was preposterous.
Their eyes purged thick amber and plum-tree gum, and they had no notion
of doing anything but drawing their pensions, and getting three meals a
day, with a horrible fourth on the glorious Fourth.

Mr. LOGAN said this position was outrageous. He knew that some of these
hoary wretches in his own district were so fully in sympathy with the
rebellion as actually to refuse to vote for him, when carriages were
sent to convey them to the polls. Such men ought not to receive a
dollar.

Mr. BUTLER not only reaffirmed his previous statements, but reintroduced
his resolution to annex Dominica.

Mr. KELLEY desired to abolish the income tax. He said that some of his
most influential constituents disliked it. They would not pay. To lie
they were ashamed. If a sufficient tariff were put upon pig-iron there
would be no need of providing for this petty Tacks.

Mr. BUTLER was in favor of the abolition of the tax. It had never seen
anything but a tax on paper, and it was not worth a paper of tacks.
But he considered the most feasible method of reducing it was to annex
Dominica, and he introduced a resolution to that effect. As his friend
KELLEY had suggested, if they did not remove the tax, their constituents
would remove them. He did not consider it practicable, however, to bring
a movement to abolish the tacks on the carpet until Dominica should be
ours.


FURTHER OF MYTHOLOGY.

DIANA. This goddess was generally admitted to be the most intellectual
and disagreeable of the whole divine Sisterhood. Among the Greeks the
popular estimate of her character was shown by the name of "Artful
Miss"--afterwards corrupted to ARTEMIS--which they gave to her. She was
an eminently strong-minded goddess, and insisted upon her right to adopt
the habits of the other sex. Among them was the practice of hunting, of
which she was passionately fond. Indeed, it was from her devotion to the
pleasures of the chase that she obtained the epithet of the "Chased"
DIANA--wild boars, and such like ungallant brutes, sometimes annoying
her by refusing to be chased themselves, and by chasing her instead.
There are those who pretend to think that "chaste," instead of "chased,"
was really the original epithet, and that it was given to her as a
recognition of the aggressive and malignant virtue which distinguishes
most strong-minded women who are old and yet unmarried. The obvious
absurdity of this theory will, however, be evident to any one who
remembers her little flirtation with ENDYMION, whom she cruelly led from
the paths of innocence, only to abandon him on the hills of Latmos,
where he contracted the chills and fever by fruitlessly watching for her
at night in the open field. A characteristic piece of ill-temper was her
treatment of young ACTÆON. The latter, who was a respectable, though
rather reckless young man, was once walking along the beach, when he
suddenly came upon DIANA and several female friends in the act of taking
the surf. Envious to behold the extremes of boniness, which then, as
now, doubtless characterized the strong-minded females, he concealed
himself in a neighboring bathing-house, and brought his opera-glass
to bear on the group. He was, however, discovered, and DIANA and her
friends were so indignant at being seen without their false teeth and
false "fronts," that the former deliberately set her dogs on him, who
tore him into imperceptible fragments so small that no coroner could
possibly find enough of him in order to hold an inquest. Of course
ACTÆON'S conduct cannot be defended, but then his punishment was
altogether too severe. There is every reason to suppose that DIANA
wanted some one to accidentally notice her proficiency in swimming, else
why should she have chosen a place of popular resort for her bath? And
then the simple nudity in which she was surprised was not nearly as
suggestive as the peculiar costumes in which our fashionable ladies
now-a-days enter the surf in the presence of admiring crowds. However,
ideas change with successive ages, and what we now consider perfectly
proper would probably have brought any quantity of blushes to the cheek
of the young person of Athens or Rome. Among the Olympians DIANA was a
common scold, and made herself as disagreeable to the goddesses as to
the gods. Since she ceased to be openly worshipped she has been in a
measure forgotten among men, but the strong-minded women still regard
her with love and reverence, and it is understood that her statue,
together with a painting representing her in the act of setting the
dogs on ACTÆON, are among the most prominent decorations of the Sorosis
Club-room and the _Revolution_ office.


Historical

Coney Island is celebrated for the saltness of its waters and the
leathery qualities of its clams. This island is said to have been so
named on account of its resemblance in shape to an inverted cone, but
the attrition of the ocean has materially changed the conic base.
Researches in the direction of the apex have not been made recently.


Patentee Wanted.

The heavy hebdomadals complain that the style of the communications sent
them is too diffuse. The "talented" contributor is adjured to condense.
There is an apparatus, we believe, for condensing the article called
milk, but who will devise a machine for condensing the milk-and-water
article? A fortune awaits the genius of the inventor.


THE HOLY GRAIL AND OTHER POEMS.

(This Is one of the other Poems.)

BY A HALF-RED DENIZEN OF THE WEST.

Part XI.

PELLEAS then, when all the flies were gone, Sat faithful on his horse,
upon the lawn That skirts the castle moat; and thought the dame, For
want of pluck, could never give him blame. He sat a week. She grew so
blazing mad, She raved, and called three other knights she had; And
cried, "That fool will drive me wild, I fear! Go bind his hands, and
walk him Spanish here." And when the idiot heard her, he did grin And
smirk, and let them walk him Spanish in. Then, railing vile, that he
might take offence, She, sneering, asked him would he ne'er go hence;

[Illustration]

And cursed him till her face grew crimson red. Like cats of Cheshire
then he grinned, and said:


"Sent by thy train and thee to Coventry, I hung with grooms and porters
on the bridge; Watched by thy three tall squires. And there I shaped An
ancient willow's sapling into this."

And handed her a whistle. "Kick him out!" She yelled; and the knights,
laughing, took the lout, And thrust him from the gate. A week from this,
Looking without, she saw his simple phiz; And cried "Go kill him! Stick
him like a pig! You three can do it, if he is so big!" Unwilling, yet
the knights went out to try, And light-of-love GAWAIN came riding by.
"What ho!" he cried, "I'm in, if that fight's free; So here I come-ye
knavish cowards three!" "For me," PELLEAS cried, "the fight she means,"
And charging, knocked them into smithereens. Now called she other
knights, and cried out, "Once Again go bind and bring me here that
dunce!" And when he heard, he let himself be bound,

And o'er the bridge they kicked him like a hound. When she had sneered
her sneeriest, then she said, "Turn him out bound!" He lifted up his
head,

  "You ask me why, tho' ill at ease
  Within this region I subsist?"

  "I did," she said, "but pray desist
  From further quoting, if you please."

When forth PELLEAS came, his hands all tied, The brave GAWAIN, he
bounded to his side, And loosed his bonds and said, "Look here, good
friend, This sort of thing had better have an end. Just you go home, and
take a Turkish bath, And I will cure this lady of her wrath. Give me
your horse and shield. Take mine, I'll say I've killed you, stiffly
dead, in mortal fray. Then she will straight repent; your death will
rue, And while her heart is soft, I'll send for you."

This nincum-fubby-diddle-boodle, he Went home, and did not GAWATN'S
laughter see! He waited till the moon, after three days, Gave promise of
large lights on woods and ways, And then he hastened to ETTABBE'S gate.
He found it open, and he did not wait to be announced, but hastened,
full of hope, To where her tent stood on the garden slope. He knew she
slept the roses all among, And as he softly stepped, he softly sung:

  "I am coming, my own, my sweet!
  Were it ever so airy a tread,
  Thy heart would hear me and beat,
  Were it earth in an earthly bed.
  Thy dust would hear me and beat,
  Hads't thou lain for a century dead,
  Would start and tremble under my feet--

And just then he saw GAWAIN'S head! With one wild bound toward the
dark'ning skies, From out the garden gates he madly flies. But soon his
mind it alters. Slipping back, His tune he changes--trying this new
  tack:"Howe'er it be, it seems to me
  'Tis only noble to be good;
  Kind hearts are more than coronets,
  And simple faith, than Norman blood.

  O lady! You may veer and veer,
  A great enchantress you may be,
  But there'll be that across your throat,
  Which you would scarcely care to see."

Then he, while sleep of senses them bereft, Soft thrust his lance
through both their necks--and left. The cold touch in her throat she
felt, and woke. She knew the lance, and to GAWAIN she spoke. "Liar!" she
said. "That man you have not slain. Let's both clear out! He may come
back again!"

(_To be Continued._)


OUR PORTFOLIO.

That most gay, gallant and airy body of horsemen known as the "Brooklyn
Dutch Light Cavalry," are much indebted to the projectors of the
Knightly meeting which took place recently at Prospect Park, for an
opportunity to display those equestrian graces which a few cross-grained
critics have been disposed to deny them. The general public never had
any doubts upon the subject, but it is well enough to silence those who
took much credit to themselves in detecting faults where others could
not discover them. The result shows how completely such mendacity can be
exposed. Of the numerous prizes awarded, two-thirds fell to the members
of Brooklyn's Teutonic Cavalry. They were especially admired for the
firmness with which they kept their saddles, under circumstances enough
to unhorse a Centaur. We noted, particularly, one cavalier, known in
the lists as the Knight of RUDESHEIMER. He keeps a pork store in Fulton
Avenue, and turned a Fairbanks Scale, but two days before the tourney,
at 275 lbs. This gallant rode a very sprightly steed, which struggled
under the double calamity of being slightly spavined and quite blind in
the left eye. One of the effects of the latter misfortune was to keep
the animal constantly in the belief that somebody meditated foul play
upon its unguarded flank, and at the slightest stir in the crowd it
would wheel violently around, to the great consternation its rider,
and the evident alarm of contiguous Knights. PUNCHINELLO, who was very
conspicuous in the throng, and was mounted upon a highly mettled Ukraine
steed, observed the cavorting of the Knight of RUDESHEIMER, and cantered
gaily towards him. In attempting to pass, his spur touched the side of
the blind steed,--which kicked at PUNCHINELLO'S fiery Ukraine in a very
ungracious manner. Our animal would take a kick from no other animal
calmly, and so, without waiting to weigh consequences, it gave
RUDESHEIMER'S Rosinante a severe "chuck" in the ribs with its hind feet.
In an instant horse and rider were spinning around like a top. A space
was immediately cleared, and the crowd awaited in breathless silence
the fate of the Knight. His swayings were fearful, until PUNCHINELLO,
anticipating an apoplectic fit from such a terrific revolution, dashed
in, and seizing the frightened steed by the bridle, brought him to
bay. The Knight's face was livid with rage and, instead of thanking
PUNCHINELLO, he roared at the pitch of his voice.

"Dunder und blitzen! Du bist ein tam phool. Vat for you not sees I ish
tied to mein saddle?"

The pride of horsemanship could go no further, and so PUNCHINELLO left.


SONG OF THE RED CLOUD.

[Supposed to have been uttered on the occasion of a conference of
Savages at Washington with a view to the settlement of our Indian
difficulties.]

  How! Call all my chiefs together--
  Makpialutah, Red Cloud wants 'em:
  Shunkalutah, him the Red Dog;
  Brave Bear, Montaohetekah;
  Setting Bear, Maktohutakah;
  Rock Bear, Live Bear, Long Bear, Short Bear,
  Little Bear, Yellow Bear, and Bear Skin,
  Keyalutah, Red Fly--Shoo Fly!
  Dahsanowee, White Cow Rattler,
  Pahgee, Shunkmonetoohakah,
  Shatonsapah, Maktohashena,
  Kokepah, Ocklehelutah,
  Newakohnkechaksaheuntah,
  Whoop! haloo! Yahoo! Halooooooooo!

 (Sudden rush of warriors on all sides with war-whoop, flourish of
  tomahawks, and inexplicable dumb show.]

  Ugh! What now would have the White Man?
  Sell he swindle, rum, fire-water,
  We will sell him Fear in plenty.
  What would have Great Cloud, our father,
  He the Smoke-nose, he the Big Fish?
  They not cheat us, we not murder.
  Pale-faces like the leaves of forests:
  Many squaws with paint and feathers--
  None like Makochawyuntaker,
  The World-looker, wife of Black Hawk.
  Much skull, but few scalp in Congress.
  Talk much--very great tongue-warriors.
  Tomahawk could end the tongue-fight.
  Hrumph! I like not these pale-faces,
  Makpialutah mourns for battle,
  Red Cloud thirsts for blood of Pawnees,
  Red Cloud cries for scalp of white men,
  Red Cloud angers the Great Spirit,
  Red Cloud trembles for the War Dance!
  Ugh! Hrumph! How! Whoop, whoop, haloooooo!

[The Conference of Chiefs, after an uproar of shrill and guttural
sounds, break: up with the favorite can-can of the Sioux.]


A Pleasant Prospect.

The Massachusetts editors, who are shortly to meet in convention at
Boston, are threatened with three distressing courtesies, viz: a concert
on the Big Organ, a visit to the School Ship, and a banquet in Fanuil
Hall. They have our sincerest condolences.


[Illustration: TREPIDATION.

FRANK PAYS A VISIT OF CONDOLENCE TO HIS FRIEND, WHO IS ILL WITH
RELAPSING FEVER.]

[Illustration: FUMIGATION.

THEN HE THINKS HIS HAIR SHOULD BE FUMIGATED, AND SUBSEQUENTLY HE HAS TO
BE EXTINGUISHED.] [Illustration: MARRIAGE A LA MODE. (NOT BY HOGARTH.)
_Clergyman_. "Do You TAKE THIS MAN TO LOVE, HONOR, AND AGREE WITH
UNTIL--YOU SEE ANOTHER MAN YOU LIKE BETTER?"]


MY COUP D'ETAT.

Mr. PUNCHINELLO: For sometime--I would not like to say how long--the
undersigned has been a candidate for the office of Whiskey Inspector for
the Judasville district of his State. I have had powerful backing from
the scrap-iron members of Congress from my section, but their efforts
and my own have long seemed of little avail. The other day, however,
I saw in the papers the account of the _coup d'etat_ of the DUKE OF
SALDANHA, in Portugal. An idea immediately entered my brain. These
_effète_ monarchies, these governments of the past, on which "the rust
of ages," as VICTOR HUGO remarks, "lies like a bloody snow of bygone
vassalage," have yet sufficient vitality to teach a lesson to the young
and vigorous governments of the West. At any rate this old duke taught
me a lesson, and I did my best to hurry off and say it. It was evident
that if I wanted to be Whiskey Inspector of Judasville, (and I am
justified in saying that no man in the district possesses more peculiar
qualifications for the post,) that something in the SALDANHA style
must be done. The time had passed for petitions and lobbying. I went
immediately to the commander of the Judasville Rifles, and enlisted his
sympathies in my cause. He willingly placed his company at my service,
but whether this was due to my offer to pay the board-bills and car-fare
of the organization while it was under my orders, or to my eloquent
statement of my case, I have not yet had an opportunity to discover. The
men who, from the very commencement of the undertaking, had constituted
themselves the inspectors of my whiskey, were in high good spirits, and,
in a body, numbering some forty-six, we arrived in Washington, on a
bright morning, about a week ago. It would not do, on an occasion like
this, to delay matters. Accordingly I marched my troops directly to the
White House. The man in charge of the door took my men for a visiting
target company, and told me, whom he supposed was the member from their
district, that I must marshal my friends out on the green, and he would
notify the Private Secretary. I made no answer to this, but ordered
the troops to charge bayonets, and we entered the White House at a
double-quick. I led the way directly to GRANT'S study, and stationing my
men in the doorway, I entered. He was within, cutting up an "old soger"
to smoke in his pipe. After shaking bands with him, I sat down and
inquired if that was a _regalia _he was cutting up.

"No," said he. "This is the HANCOCK brand."

"Oh!" said I.

"Well?" said he, looking somewhat inquisitively at the soldiers, who
crowded into the doorway, and almost filled the entry beyond.

"Mr. President," said I, rising and clearing my throat, "I do not wish
to occupy much time in the present business--especially as I have to pay
the hotel bills of these brave veterans until it is finished. Therefore
I will come directly to the point. I desire, immediately, the
appointment of Whiskey Inspector for the Judasville district. I have
been an applicant for said position quite long enough, and I demand that
you make out my commission this morning."

"And suppose I don't?" says GRANT.

"In that case," said I,--"in that case--well, in that case, _there_ are
my companions in arms, the brave supporters of my cause!" and I pointed
proudly to the Judasville Rifles.

"Well," said GRANT, puffing away at the HANCOCK remnants, "what do you
propose to do with them--besides paying their hotel bills, I mean?"

"To do?" said I, "to do?"--and now, to tell the truth, I experienced an
immediate disadvantage of not having formed a plan of my campaign. But
it would not do to hesitate.

"To do?" I repeated, speaking louder this time. "I shall march
upon--well, upon each of the public buildings in turn, and I shall take
them and hold them."

"And then?" said GRANT.

"Well," said I, "then, of course, you will see the impossibility of
carrying my strongholds without a fearful slaughter, and to prevent
the consequent effusion of blood, you will despatch a courier to me,
requesting my presence in your council-room."

"And then?" said GRANT.

"I will come," I answered.

"And then?" said GRANT.

"You will give me the Whiskey Inspectorship," I answered.

GRANT glanced at me, and then at the body of troops by which I was
supported. Indomitable resolution sat upon every lineament of my
countenance, and resolute determination showed itself in the faces of my
brave men. Already, from afar, they sniffed the delicious perfumes of
the rewards of victory. (It is needless to particularize the alcoholic
promises I had made them in case of success.)

GRANT rang a little bell--I think he bought it second-hand, when SEWARD
sold out to go travelling--and an obstrusive attendant entered by a back
door.

Then, to this obtrusive attendant said the President; "James, step
over to the War Department and tell SHERMAN to send me the Eighth and
Eleventh Brigades of Cavalry; the Seventy-first and Fortieth Regiments
of Artillery; the Twenty-second, Forty-fourth, and Eighty-eighth
regiments of infantry, and two companies of sappers and miners."

JAMES departed.

I stepped forward.

"Mr. PRESIDENT," said I, "in order to prevent the effusion of blood,
might it not be as well to settle our little business at once?"

GRANT smiled.

HODGINS, the captain of the Judasville Rifles, now came up to me and
touched me on the arm.

"To prevent the effusion of blood," said he, "we are going home."

And they went!

My subsequent adventures, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, I cannot relate, for my paper
is full, and the fellow who has charge of this cell has refused to get
me any more, unless I give him more money, which I haven't got.

But of one thing my mind is certain, and that is that this country has
not yet arrived at that high grade of official refinement and tenderness
which Portugal has reached.

COODYTAW. [Advertisement] A.T. STEWART & CO.

Have LARGELY REPLENISHED all their Popular Stocks of

Silks, Dress Goods, Laces,

EMBROIDERIES,

Printed Jaconets, Organdies, Percales, Ladies and Gentlemen's Furnishing
Goods, &c.,

AND WILL OPEN TEN CASES OF

Extra Fine Printed Cambrics

At l8c. per Yard; Recent Price, 25c.

BROADWAY,

4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts.


[Advertisement]

MOURNING GOODS.

STOCK COMPLETE,

With every variety suitable for the Season.

Iron Grenadine Bareges Just Received.

A. T. STEWART & CO.,

Broadway, 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts.


[Advertisement]

A. T. STEWART & Co.

Request attention to their

EXTENSIVE AND ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF

Every Description of

READY MADE GOODS

For Ladies and Children.

SUITABLE FOB SUMMER WEAR.

BROADWAY,

4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets.


[Advertisement]

A. T. STEWART & CO.

Have made LARGE ADDITIONS to their

Popular Stocks of

Ladies' and Children's Dresses.

UNDERWEAR, IN EVERY VARIETY.

INFANTS' WARDROBES.

Millinery, Sacks, Silk Cloaks, Embroidered

Breakfast Jackets, &c., &c.

BROADWAY,

4th Ave., 9th and 10th Streets.


[Advertisement]

THE

MERCHANTS'

Life Insurance Company

OF NEW YORK

Office, 257 BROADWAY.

ORGANIZED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Issues all Kinds of Life and Endowment Policies on the Mutual System,
free from restriction on travel and occupation, which permit residence
anywhere without extra charge. Premiums may be paid annually,
semi-annually, or quarterly in cash.

All Policies are non-forfeitable, and participate in the profits of the
Company. Dividends are made annually, on the Contribution plan.

Pamphlets containing Rates of Premium, and information on the subject of
Life Insurance, may be obtained at the office of the Company, or of any
of its Agents.

Parties desiring to represent this Company in the capacity of Agents
will please address the New York Office.

WILLIAM T. PHIPPS,

_President_.

A. D. HOLLY, _Secretary_. HENRY HILTON, _Counsel_.

O. S. PAINE, M. D. _Medical Examiner_. C. H. KING, M. D. _Asst. Med.
Ex._

Each Agent in direct communication with the New York Office.


[Advertisement]

SPECIAL

PUNCHINELLO PREMIUMS.

BY SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT WITH

L. PRANG & CO.,

we offer the following Elegant Premiums for new Subscribers to
PUNCHINELLO:

"Awakening." (A Litter of Puppies.) Half Chromo, size, 8 3-8 by 11 1-8,
price $2.00, and a copy of PUNCHINELLO for one year, for $4.00.

"Wild Roses." Chromo, 12 1-8 by 9, price $3.00, or any other $3.00
Chromo, and a copy of the paper for one year, for $5.00.

"The Baby in Trouble." Chromo, 13 by 16 l-4, price $6.00, or any other
at $6.00, or any two Chromos at $3.00, and a copy of the paper for one
year for $7.00.

"Sunset,--California Scenery." after A. Bierstadt, 18 1-8 by 12, price
$10.00, or any other $10.00 Chromo, and a copy of the paper for one year
for $10.00. Or the four Chromos, and four copies of the paper for one
year in one order, for clubs of FOUR, for $25.00.

Remittances should be made in P. 0. Orders, Drafts, or Bank Checks on
New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be sent from the first
number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not otherwise ordered.

Now is the time to subscribe, as these Premiums will be offered for a
limited time only. On receipt of a postage-stamp, we will send a copy of
No. 1 to any one desiring to get up a club.

Address,

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,

P. O. Box 2783. No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. [Illustration: THE
SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT AGAIN.

Bar-room Lobbyist.--"I TELL YOU, NO, SIR; THIS SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT IS
A DELUSION AND A SNARE. WHAT IN THUNDER IS TO BECOME OF US, WHEN WOMEN
COME INTO THE LOBBY BUSINESS? "]


[Advertisement]

"The Printing House of the United States."

GEO. F. NESBITT & CO.,

General JOB PRINTERS,

BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, STATIONERS, Wholesale and Retail, LITHOGRAPHIC
Engravers and Printers, COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, CARD
Manufacturers, ENVELOPE Manufacturers, FINE CUT and COLOR Printers.

163, 165, 167, and 160 PEARL ST., 73, 75, 77, and 79 PINE ST., New York.

