GENTLEMEN,--I was highly gratified by the insertion of a portion of my
letter in the last number of your valuable and entertaining Miscellany,
though in a type which rendered its substance inaccessible even to the
beautiful new spectacles presented to me by a Committee of the Parish on
New-Year's Day. I trust that I was able to bear your very considerable
abridgment of my lucubrations with a spirit becoming a Christian. My
third grand-daughter, Rebekah, aged fourteen years, and whom I have
trained to read slowly and with proper emphasis, (a practice too much
neglected in our modern systems of education,) read aloud to me the
excellent essay upon "Old Age," the authour of which I cannot help
suspecting to be a young man who has never yet known what it was to have
snow (_canities morosa_) upon his own roof. _Dissolve frigus, large
super foco ligna reponens_, is a rule for the young, whose wood-pile is
yet abundant for such cheerful lenitives. A good life behind him is the
best thing to keep an old man's shoulders from shivering at every breath
of sorrow or ill-fortune. But methinks it were easier for an old man to
feel the disadvantages of youth than the advantages of age. Of these
latter I reckon one of the chiefest to be this: that we attach a less
inordinate value to our own productions, and, distrusting daily more
and more our own wisdom, (with the conceit whereof at twenty we wrap
ourselves away from knowledge as with a garment,) do reconcile ourselves
with the wisdom of God. I could have wished, indeed, that room might
have been made for the residue of the anecdote relating to Deacon
Tinkham, which would not only have gratified a natural curiosity on the
part of the publick, (as I have reason to know from several letters of
inquiry already received,) but would also, as I think, have largely
increased the circulation of your Magazine in this town. _Nihil humani
alienum_, there is a curiosity about the affairs of our neighbours which
is not only pardonable, but even commendable. But I shall abide a more
fitting season.

As touching the following literary effort of Esquire Biglow, much might
be profitably said on the topick of Idyllick and Pastoral Poetry,
and concerning the proper distinctions to be made between them, from
Theocritus, the inventor of the former, to Collins, the latest authour I
know of who has emulated the classicks in the latter style. But in the
time of a civil war worthy a Milton to defend and a Lucan to sing, it
may be reasonably doubted whether the publick, never too studious of
serious instruction, might not consider other objects more deserving of
present attention. Concerning the title of Idyll, which Mr. Biglow has
adopted at my suggestion, it may not be improper to animadvert, that the
name properly signifies a poem somewhat rustick in phrase, (for, though
the learned are not agreed as to the particular dialect employed by
Theocritus, they are universanimous both as to its rusticity and its
capacity of rising now and then to the level of more elevated sentiments
and expressions,) while it is also descriptive of real scenery and
manners. Yet it must be admitted that the production now in question
(which here and there bears perhaps too plainly the marks of my
correcting hand) does partake of the nature of a Pastoral, inasmuch as
the interlocutors therein are purely imaginary beings, and the whole
is little better than [Greek: skias onar.] The plot was, as I believe,
suggested by the "Twa Briggs" of Robert Burns, a Scottish poet of the
last century, as that found its prototype in the "Mutual Complaint of
Plainstanes and Causey" by Fergusson, though the metre of this latter
be different by a foot in each verse. I reminded my talented young
parishioner and friend that Concord Bridge had long since yielded to the
edacious tooth of Time. But he answered me to this effect: that there
was no greater mistake of an authour than to suppose the reader had
no fancy of his own; that, if once that faculty was to be called into
activity, it were _better_ to be in for the whole sheep than the
shoulder; and that he knew Concord like a book,--an expression
questionable in propriety, since there are few things with which he
is not more familiar than with the printed page. In proof of what he
affirmed, he showed me some verses which with others he had stricken out
as too much delaying the action, but which I communicate in this place
because they rightly define "punkin-seed," (which Mr. Bartlett would
have a kind of perch,--a creature to which I have found a rod or pole
not to be so easily equivalent in our inland waters as in the books of
arithmetic,) and because it conveys an eulogium on the worthy son of an
excellent father, with whose acquaintance (_eheu, fugaces anni!_) I was
formerly honoured.

  "But nowadays the Bridge ain't wut they show,
  So much ez Em'son, Hawthorne, an' Thoreau.
  I know the village, though: was sent there once
  A-schoolin', coz to home I played the dunce;
  An' I've ben sence a-visitin' the Jedge,
  Whose garding whispers with the river's edge,
  Where I've sot mornin's, lazy as the bream,
  Whose only business is to head up-stream,
  (We call 'em punkin-seed,) or else in chat
  Along'th the Jedge, who covers with his hat
  More wit an' gumption an' shrewd Yankee sense
  Than there is mosses on an ole stone fence."

Concerning the subject-matter of the verses I have not the leisure at
present to write so fully as I could wish, my time being occupied
with the preparation of a discourse for the forthcoming bi-centenary
celebration of the first settlement of Jaalam East Parish. It may
gratify the publick interest to mention the circumstance, that my
investigations to this end have enabled me to verify the fact (of much
historick importance, and hitherto hotly debated) that Shearjashub
Tarbox was the first child of white parentage born in this town, being
named in his father's will under date August 7th, or 9th, 1662. It is
well known that those who advocate the claims of Mehetable Goings are
unable to find any trace of her existence prior to October of that year.
As respects the settlement of the Mason and Slidell question, Mr. Biglow
has not incorrectly stated the popular sentiment, so far as I can judge
by its expression in this locality. For myself, I feel more sorrow than
resentment; for I am old enough to have heard those talk of England who
still, even after the unhappy estrangement, could not unschool their
lips from calling her the Mother-Country. But England has insisted on
ripping up old wounds, and has undone the healing work of fifty years;
for nations do not reason, they only feel, and the _spretae injuria
formae_ rankles in their minds as bitterly as in that of a woman. And
because this is so, I feel the more satisfaction that our Government has
acted (as all Governments should, standing as they do between the people
and their passions) as if it had arrived at years of discretion. There
are three short and simple words, the hardest of all to pronounce in any
language, (and I suspect they were no easier before the confusion of
tongues,) but which no man or nation that cannot utter can claim to have
arrived at manhood. Those words are, _I was wrong_; and I am proud,
that, while England played the boy, our rulers had strength enough from
below and wisdom enough from above to quit themselves like men. Let us
strengthen the hands of those in authority over us, and curb out own
tongues,[A] remembering that General Wait commonly proves in the end
more than a match for General Headlong, and that the Good Book ascribes
safety to a multitude, indeed, but not to a mob, of counsellours. Let us
remember and perpend the words of Paulus Emilius to the people of Rome:
that, "if they judged they could manage the war to more advantage by any
other, he would willingly yield up his charge; but if they confided in
him, _they were not to make themselves his colleagues in his office, or
raise reports, or criticize, his actions, but, without talking, supply
him with means and assistance necessary to the carrying on of the war;
for, if they proposed to command their own commander, they would render
this expedition more ridiculous than the former." (Vide Plutarchum in
vitâ P.E.)_ Let us also not forget what the same excellent authour
says concerning Perseus's fear of spending money, and not permit the
covetousness of Brother Jonathan to be the good-fortune of Jefferson
Davis. For my own part, till I am ready to admit the Commander-in-Chief
to my pulpit, I shall abstain from planning his battles. Patience is the
armour of a nation; and in our desire for peace, let us never be willing
to surrender the Constitution bequeathed us by fathers at least as wise
as ourselves, (even with Jefferson Davis to help us,) and, with those
degenerate Romans, _tuta et presentia quam vetera et periculosa malle._

With respect,
Your ob't humble serv't,
HOMER WILBUR, A.M.

[Footnote A: And not only our own tongues, but the pens of others, which
are swift to convey useful intelligence to the enemy. This is no new
inconvenience; for, under date 3rd June, 1745, General Pepperell wrote
thus to Governour Shirley from Louisbourg:--"What your Excellency
observes of the _army's being made acquainted with any plans proposed,
until really to be put in execution_, has always been disagreeable
to me, and I have given many cautions relating to it. But when your
Excellency considers that _our Council of War consists of more than
twenty members_, am persuaded you will think it _impossible for me to
hinder it_, if any of them will persist in communicating to inferiour
officers and soldiers what ought to be kept secret. I am informed that
the Boston newspapers are filled with paragraphs from private letters
relating to the expedition. Will your Excellency permit me to say I
think it may be of ill consequence? Would it not be convenient, if your
Excellency should forbid the Printers' inserting such news?" Verily, if
_tempora mutantur,_ we may question the _et nos mutamur in illis;_ and
if tongues be leaky, it will need all hands at the pumps to save the
Ship of State. Our history dates and repeats itself. If Sassycus (rather
than Alcibiades) find a parallel in Beauregard, so Weakwash, as he is
called by the brave Lieutenant Lion Gardiner, need not seek far among
our own Sachems for his antitype.]

  I love to start out arter night's begun,
  An' all the chores about the farm are done,
  The critters milked an' foddered, gates shet fast,
  Tools cleaned aginst to-morrer, supper past,
  An' Nancy darnin' by her ker'sene lamp,--
  I love, I say, to start upon a tramp,
  To shake the kinkles out o' back an' legs,
  An' kind o' rack my life off from the dregs
  Thet's apt to settle in the buttery-hutch
  Of folks thet foller in one rut too much:
  Hard work is good an' wholesome, past all doubt;
  But 't ain't so, ef the mind gits tuckered out.

  Now, bein' born in Middlesex, you know,
  There's certin spots where I like best to go:
  The Concord road, for instance, (I, for one,
  Most gin'lly ollers call it _John Bull's Run._)--
  The field o' Lexin'ton, where England tried
  The fastest colors thet she ever dyed,--
  An' Concord Bridge, thet Davis, when he came,
  Found was the bee-line track to heaven an' fame,--
  Ez all roads be by natur', ef your soul
  Don't sneak thru shun-pikes so's to save the toll.

  They're 'most too fur away, take too much time
  To visit often, ef it ain't in rhyme;
  But there's a walk thet's hendier, a sight,
  An' suits me fust-rate of a winter's night,--
  I mean the round whale's-back o' Prospect Hill.
  I love to loiter there while night grows still,
  An' in the twinklin' villages about,
  Fust here, then there, the well-saved lights goes out,
  An' nary sound but watch-dogs' false alarms,
  Or muffled cock-crows from the drowsy farms,
  Where some wise rooster (men act jest thet way)
  Stands to't thet moon-rise is the break o' day:
  So Mister Seward sticks a three-months pin
  Where the war'd oughto end, then tries agin;--
  My gran'ther's rule was safer'n 't is to crow:
  _Don't never prophesy--onless ye know._

  I love to muse there till it kind o' seems
  Ez ef the world went eddyin' off in dreams.
  The Northwest wind thet twitches at my baird
  Blows out o' sturdier days not easy scared,
  An' the same moon thet this December shines
  Starts out the tents an' booths o' Putnam's lines;
  The rail-fence posts, acrost the hill thet runs,
  Turn ghosts o' sogers should'rin' ghosts o' guns;
  Ez wheels the sentry, glints a flash o' light
  Along the firelock won at Concord Fight,
  An' 'twixt the silences, now fur, now nigh,
  Rings the sharp chellenge, hums the low reply.
  Ez I was settin' so, it warn't long sence,
  Mixin' the perfect with the present tense,
  I heerd two voices som'ers in the air,
  Though, ef I was to die, I can't tell where:
  Voices I call 'em: 't was a kind o' sough
  Like pine-trees thet the wind is geth'rin' through;
  An', fact, I thought it _was_ the wind a spell,--
  Then some misdoubted,--couldn't fairly tell,--
  Fust sure, then not, jest as you hold an eel,--
  I knowed, an' didn't,--fin'lly seemed to feel
  'T was Concord Bridge a-talkin' off to kill
  With the Stone Spike thet's druv thru Bunker Hill:
  Whether't was so, or ef I only dreamed,
  I couldn't say; I tell it ez it seemed.

  THE BRIDGE.

  Wal, neighbor, tell us, wut's turned up thet's new?
  You're younger'n I be,--nigher Boston, tu;
  An' down to Boston, ef you take their showin',
  Wut they don't know ain't hardly wuth the knowin'.
  There's _sunthin'_ goin' on, I know: las' night
  The British sogers killed in our gret fight
  (Nigh fifty year they hedn't stirred nor spoke)
  Made sech a coil you'd thought a dam hed broke:
  Why, one he up an' beat a revellee
  With his own crossbones on a holler tree,
  Till all the graveyards swarmed out like a hive
  With faces I hain't seen sence Seventy-five.
  Wut _is_ the news? 'T ain't good, or they'd be cheerin'.
  Speak slow an' clear, for I'm some hard o' hearin'.

  THE MONIMENT.

  I don't know hardly ef it's good or bad,--

  THE BRIDGE.

  At wust, it can't be wus than wut we've had.

  THE MONIMENT.

  You know them envys thet the Rebbles sent,
  An' Cap'n Wilkes he borried o' the Trent?

  THE BRIDGE.

  Wut! hev they hanged 'em? Then their wits is gone!
  Thet's a sure way to make a goose a swan!

  THE MONIMENT.

  No: England she _would_ hev 'em, _Fee, Faw, Fum!_
  (Ez though she hedn't fools enough to home,)
  So they've returned 'em--

  THE BRIDGE.

  _Hev_ they? Wal, by heaven,
  Thet's the wust news I've heerd sence Seventy-seven!
  _By George_, I meant to say, though I declare
  It's 'most enough to make a deacon, swear.

  THE MONIMENT.

  Now don't go off half-cock: folks never gains
  By usin' pepper-sarse instid o' brains.
  Come, neighbor, you don't understand--

  THE BRIDGE.

                                  How? Hey?
  Not understand? Why, wut's to hender, pray?
  Must I go huntin' round to find a chap
  To tell me when my face hez hed a slap?

  THE MONIMENT.

  See here: the British they found out a flaw
  In Cap'n Wilkes's readin' o' the law:
  (They _make_ all laws, you know, an' so, o' course,
  It's nateral they should understand their force:)
  He'd oughto took the vessel into port,
  An' hed her sot on by a reg'lar court;
  She was a mail-ship, an' a steamer, tu,
  An' thet, they say, hez changed the pint o' view,
  Coz the old practice, bein' meant for sails,
  Ef tried upon a steamer, kind o' falls;
  You _may_ take out despatches, but you mus'n't
  Take nary man--

  THE BRIDGE.

                   You mean to say, you dus'n't!
  Changed pint o' view! No, no,--it's overboard
  With law an' gospel, when their ox is gored!
  I tell ye, England's law, on sea an' land,
  Hez ollers ben, "_I've gut the heaviest hand_."
  Take nary man? Fine preachin' from _her_ lips!
  Why, she hez taken hunderds from our ships,
  An' would agin, an' swear she hed a right to,
  Ef we warn't strong enough to be perlite to.
  Of all the sarse thet I can call to mind,
  England _doos_ make the most onpleasant kind:
  It's you're the sinner ollers, she's the saint;
  Wut's good's all English, all thet isn't ain't;
  Wut profits her is ollers right an' just,
  An' ef you don't read Scriptur so, you must;
  She's praised herself ontil she fairly thinks
  There ain't no light in Natur when she winks;
  Hain't she the Ten Comman'ments in her pus?
  Could the world stir 'thout she went, tu, ez nus?
  She ain't like other mortals, thet's a fact:
  _She_ never stopped the habus-corpus act,
  Nor specie payments, nor she never yet
  Cut down the int'rest on her public debt;
  _She_ don't put down rebellions, lets 'em breed,
  An' 's ollers willin' Ireland should secede;
  She's all thet's honest, honnable, an' fair,
  An' when the vartoos died they made her heir.

  THE MONIMENT.

  Wal, wal, two wrongs don't never make a right;
  Ef we're mistaken, own it, an' don't fight:
  For gracious' sake, hain't we enough to du
  'Thout gittin' up a fight with England, tu?
  She thinks we're rabble-rid------

  THE BRIDGE

                     An' so we can't
  Distinguish 'twixt _You oughtn't_ an' _You shan't!_
  She jedges by herself; she's no idear
  How 't stiddies folks to give 'em their fair sheer:
  The odds 'twixt her an' us is plain's a steeple,--
  Her People's turned to Mob, our Mob's turned People.

  THE MONIMENT.

  She's riled jes' now------

  THE BRIDGE

              Plain proof her cause ain't strong,--
  The one thet fust gits mad's most ollers wrong.

  THE MONIMENT.

  You're ollers quick to set your back aridge,--
  Though't suits a tom-cat more 'n a sober bridge:
  Don't you git het: they thought the thing was planned;
  They'll cool off when they come to understand.

  THE BRIDGE

  Ef _thet's_ wilt you expect, you'll _hev_ to wait:
  Folks never understand the folks they hate:
  She'll fin' some other grievance jest ez good,
  'Fore the month's out, to git misunderstood.
  England cool off! She'll do it, ef she sees
  She's run her head into a swarm o' bees.
  I ain't so prejudiced ez wut you spose:
  I hev thought England was the best thet goes;
  Remember, (no, you can't,) when _I_ was reared,
  _God save the King_ was all the tune you heerd:
  But it's enough to turn Wachuset roun',
  This stumpin' fellers when you think they're down.

  THE MONIMENT.

  But, neighbor, ef they prove their claim at law,
  The best way is to settle, an' not jaw.
  An' don't le' 's mutter 'bout the awfle bricks
  We'll give 'em, ef we ketch 'em in a fix:
  That 'ere's most frequently the kin' o' talk
  Of critters can't be kicked to toe the chalk;
  Your "You'll see _nex'_ time!" an' "Look out bimeby!"
  Most ollers ends in eatin' umble-pie.
  'T wun't pay to scringe to England: will it pay
  To fear thet meaner bully, old "They'll say"?
  Suppose they _du_ say: words are dreffle bores,
  But they ain't quite so bad ez seventy-fours.
  Wut England wants is jest a wedge to fit
  Where it'll help to widen out our split:
  She's found her wedge, an' 't ain't for us to come
  An' lend the beetle thet's to drive it home.
  For growed-up folks like us 't would be a scandle,
  When we git sarsed, to fly right off the handle.
  England ain't _all_ bad, coz she thinks us blind:
  Ef she can't change her skin, she can her mind;
  An' you will see her change it double-quick,
  Soon ez we've proved thet we're a-goin' to lick.
  She an' Columby's gut to be fas' friends;
  For the world prospers by their privit ends:
  'T would put the clock back all o' fifty years,
  Ef they should fall together by the ears.

  THE BRIDGE.

  You may be right; but hearken in your ear,--
  I'm older 'n you,--Peace wun't keep house with Fear:
  Ef you want peace, the thing you've gut to du
  Is jest to show you're up to fightin', tu.
  _I_ recollect how sailors' rights was won
  Yard locked in yard, hot gun-lip kissin' gun:
  Why, afore thet, John Bull sot up thet he
  Hed gut a kind o' mortgage on the sea;
  You'd thought he held by Gran'ther Adam's will,
  An' ef you knuckle down, _he_'ll think so still.
  Better thet all our ships an' all their crews
  Should sink to rot in ocean's dreamless ooze,
  Each torn flag wavin' chellenge ez it went,
  An' each dumb gun a brave man's moniment,
  Than seek sech peace ez only cowards crave:
  Give me the peace of dead men or of brave!

  THE MONIMENT.

  I say, ole boy, it ain't the Glorious Fourth:
  You'd oughto learned 'fore this wut talk wuz worth.
  It ain't _our_ nose thet gits put out o' jint;
  It's England thet gives up her dearest pint.
  We've gut, I tell ye now, enough to du
  In our own fem'ly fight, afore we're thru.
  I hoped, las' spring, jest arter Sumter's shame,
  When every flag-staff flapped its tethered flame,
  An' all the people, startled from their doubt,
  Come must'rin' to the flag with sech a shout,--

  I hoped to see things settled 'fore this fall,
  The Rebbles licked, Jeff Davis hanged, an' all;
  Then come Bull Run, an' _sence_ then I've ben waitin'
  Like boys in Jennooary thaw for skatin',
  Nothin' to du but watch my shadder's trace
  Swing, like a ship at anchor, roun' my base,
  With daylight's flood an' ebb: it's gittin' slow,
  An' I 'most think we'd better let 'em go.
  I tell ye wut, this war's a-goin' to cost--

  THE BRIDGE.

  An' I tell _you_ it wun't be money lost;
  Taxes milks dry, but, neighbor, you'll allow
  Thet havin' things onsettled kills the cow:
  We've gut to fix this thing for good an' all;
  It's no use buildin' wut's a-goin' to fall.
  I'm older 'n you, an' I've seen things an' men,
  An' here's wut my experience hez ben:
  Folks thet worked thorough was the ones thet thriv,
  But bad work follers ye ez long's ye live;
  You can't git red on 't; jest ez sure ez sin,
  It's ollers askin' to be done agin:
  Ef we should part, it wouldn't be a week
  'Fore your soft-soddered peace would spring aleak.
  We've turned our cuffs up, but, to put her thru,
  We must git mad an' off with jackets, tu;
  'T wun't du to think thet killin' ain't perlite,--
  You've gut to be in airnest, ef you fight;
  Why, two-thirds o' the Rebbles 'ould cut dirt,
  Ef they once thought thet Guv'ment meant to hurt;
  An' I _du_ wish our Gin'rals hed in mind
  The folks in front more than the folks behind;
  You wun't do much ontil you think it's God,
  An' not constitoounts, thet holds the rod;
  We want some more o' Gideon's sword, I jedge,
  For proclamations hain't no gret of edge;
  There's nothin' for a cancer but the knife,
  Onless you set by 't more than by your life.
  _I_'ve seen hard times; I see a war begun
  Thet folks thet love their bellies never'd won,--
  Pharo's lean kine hung on for seven long year,--
  But when't was done, we didn't count it dear.
  Why, law an' order, honor, civil right,
  Ef they _ain't_ wuth it, wut _is_ wuth a fight?
  I'm older 'n you: the plough, the axe, the mill,
  All kinds o' labor an' all kinds o' skill,
  Would be a rabbit in a wile-cat's claw,
  Ef't warn't for thet slow critter, 'stablished law;
  Onsettle _thet_, an' all the world goes whiz,
  A screw is loose in everythin' there is:
  Good buttresses once settled, don't you fret
  An' stir 'em: take a bridge's word for thet!
  Young folks are smart, but all ain't good thet's new;
  I guess the gran'thers they knowed sunthin', tu.

  THE MONIMENT.

  Amen to thet! build sure in the beginning',
  An' then don't never tech the underpinnin':
  Th' older a Guv'ment is, the better 't suits;
  New ones hunt folks's corns out like new boots:
  Change jest for change is like those big hotels
  Where they shift plates, an' let ye live on smells.

  THE BRIDGE

  Wal, don't give up afore the ship goes down:
  It's a stiff gale, but Providence wun't drown;
  An' God wun't leave us yet to sink or swim,
  Ef we don't fail to du wut 's right by Him.
  This land o' ourn, I tell ye, 's gut to be
  A better country than man ever see.
  I feel my sperit swellin' with a cry
  Thet seems to say, "Break forth an' prophesy!"
  O strange New World, thet yet wast never young,
  Whose youth from thee by gripin' need was wrung,--
  Brown foundlin' o' the woods, whose baby-bed
  Was prowled round by the Injun's cracklin' tread,
  An' who grew'st strong thru shifts an' wants an' pains,
  Nussed by stern men with empires in their brains,
  Who saw in vision their young Ishmel strain
  With each hard hand a vassal ocean's mane,--
  Thou, skilled by Freedom an' by gret events
  To pitch new States ez Old-World men pitch tents,--
  Thou, taught by Fate to know Jehovah's plan
  Thet only manhood ever makes a man,
  An' whose free latch-string never was drawed in
  Aginst the poorest child o' Adam's kin,--
  The grave's not dug where traitor hands shall lay
  In fearful haste thy murdered corse away!
  I see----

      Jest here some dogs began to bark,
  So thet I lost old Concord's last remark:
  I listened long, but all I seemed to hear
  Was dead leaves goss'pin' on some birch-trees near;
  But ez they hedn't no gret things to say,
  An' said 'em often, I come right away,
  An', walkin' home'ards, jest to pass the time,
  I put some thoughts thet bothered me in rhyme:
  I hain't hed time to fairly try 'em on,
  But here they be,--it's


JONATHAN TO JOHN.

  It don't seem hardly right, John,
   When both my hands was full,
  To stump me to a fight, John,--
   Your cousin, tu, John Bull!
      Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
      We know it now," sez he,
      "The lion's paw is all the law,
      Accordin' to J.B.,
      Thet's fit for you an' me!"

  Blood ain't so cool as ink, John:
   It's likely you'd ha' wrote,
  An' stopped a spell to think, John,
   _Arter_ they'd cut your throat?
      Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
      He'd skurce ha' stopped," sez he,
      "To mind his p-s an' q-s, ef thet weasan'
      Hed b'longed to ole J.B.,
      Instid o' you an' me!"

  Ef _I_ turned mad dogs loose, John,
   On _your_ front-parlor stairs,
  Would it jest meet your views, John,
   To wait an' sue their heirs?
      Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess,
      I on'y guess," sez he,
      "Thet, ef Vattel on _his_ toes fell,
      'T would kind o' rile J.B.,
      Ez wal ez you an' me!"

  Who made the law thet hurts, John,
   _Heads I win,--ditto, tails?_
  "_J.B._" was on his shirts, John,
   Onless my memory fails.
      Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess,
      (I'm good at thet,)" sez he,
      "Thet sauce for goose ain't _jest_ the juice
      For ganders with J.B.,
      No more than you or me!"

  When your rights was our wrongs, John,
   You didn't stop for fuss,--
  Britanny's trident-prongs, John,
   Was good 'nough law for us.
      Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess,
      Though physic's good," sez he,
      "It doesn't foller thet he can swaller
      Prescriptions signed 'J.B.,'
      Put up by you an' me!"

