    "After they had both alighted & secured their horses, & walked some
    small way into the wood, Lindsey began to turn pale, & to be seiz'd
    with horrour, from some unknown cause; upon wch Cromwell askt him how
    he did, or how he felt himself. He answered, that he was in such a
    trembling & consternation that he never felt y^e like in all y^e
    conflicts and battles he had been engaged in: But wether it proceeded
    from the gloomyness of y^e place, or y^e temperament of his body, he
    knew not. 'How now?' said Cromwell. 'What! trowbled with vapours? Come
    forward, man.' They had not gon above 20 yards before Lindsey on a
    sudden stood still and cry'd out, by all that's good he was seized with
    such unaccountable terrours & astonishment that it was impossible for
    him to stir one step further. Upon which Cromwell call'd him
    faint-hearted fool, & bid him stand there & observe or be witness: and
    then advancing to some distance from him, he met with a grave elderly
    man, with a roll of parchment in his hand, who deliver'd it to
    Cromwell, who eagerly perused it. Lindsey, a little recover'd from his
    fear, heard severall loud words betwixt them: particularly Cromwell
    said, 'This is but for seven year. I was to have it for 21, and it must
    and shall be so.' The other told him positively it could not be for
    above seven; upon which Cromwell cry'd with a great fierceness, it shd
    be, however, for 14 year; but the other person plorily declared it
    could not possibly be for any longer time: and if he woud not take it
    so, there was others that woud accept of it: Upon which Cromwell at
    last took y^e parchment, and returning to Lindsey with great joy in his
    countenance, he cry'd, 'Now, Lindsey, the battle's our own: I long to
    be engag'd.' Returning out of the wood, they rode to y^e army. Cromwell
    with a resolution to engage as soon as possible, & y^e other with a
    design of leaving y^e army as soon. After y^e first charge Lindsey
    deserted his post, and rode away with all possible speed, day and
    night, till he came into y^e county of Norfolk, to y^e house of an
    intimate friend, and minister of that parish: Cromwell, as soon as he
    mist him, sent all ways after him, with a promise of a great reward to
    any that w'd bring him alive or dead.

    "Thus far y^e narrative of Lindsey himself; but something further is to
    be remembered to complete & confirm y^e story.

    "When Mr. Thorowgood saw his friend Lindsey come into his yard, his
    horse and himself just tired, in a sort of amaze he said, 'How, now,
    Colonel; we hear there is like to be a battle shortly. What! fled from
    your colours?' 'A battle!' said y^e other; 'yes, there has bin a
    battle, and I am sure y^e King is beaten. If ever I strike a stroke for
    Cromwell again, may I perish eternally, for I am sure he has made a
    league with y^e Devil, and he will have him in due time.' Then,
    desiring his protection from Cromwell's inquisitors, he went in &
    related y^e whole story, and all the circumstances, concluding with
    these remarkable words, That Cromwell w'd certainly die that day seven
    year that the battle was fought.

    "The strangeness of his relation caused Mr. Thorowgood to order his son
    John, then about 12 years of age, to write it in full length in his
    common place book, & to take it from Lindsey's own mouth. This common
    place book, and likewise y^e same story writen in other books, I am
    sure is still preserv'd in y^e family of y^e Thorowgoods: But how far
    Lindsey is to be believed, & how far y^e story is to be accounted
    incredible, is left to y^e reader's faith and judgment, & not to any
    determination of our own."

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Gig Hill_ (Vol. iii., p. 222.).--Perhaps your correspondent is mistaken in
saying that "there is no indication of anything in the land to warrant the
name." At least, the very fact of its being a hill is suspicious. If I
could venture to affront you with a pun, I should say, that it seems to me
very natural that the _top_ of a hill should look like a _gig_. Mercy on
us! do words wear out so fast? Why, I have not reached three-score, and did
not I "whip my gig" when I was an "infant"?--not an infant born in a remote
province, sucking in archaism with my mother's milk, playing with heirloom
toys, and calling them by obsolete names, but a smart little cockney, born
and bred in the parish of St. Andrew, Holborn, where, no doubt, there were
gig-whipping brats plenty. In the crowded state of your columns, you would
not thank me for enlarging on the top-_hic_, or I should really feel
disposed to enter into a dissertation on the nature and characteristic
differences of whipping-tops, humming-tops, peg-tops, and gigs. As to the
latter, it certainly occurs to me, now that the question is raised, that I
have not seen such a thing for a long time; though I fancy _gigs_ lying in
the shop-windows, as they did at a period when I was more likely to observe
them; and if they have become so far forgotten, it may be worth while, for
the sake of Shakspeare, to say that they were generally (as far as I
remember always) made of horn; and therefore, when Holofernes says "Go,
whip thy gig" (which means just the same as Mr. Oldbuck's "Sew your
sampler, monkey!"), Moth replies, "Lend me your _horn_ to make one, and I
will whip about your infamy _circum circa_; a gig of a cuckold's horn!" It
is enough to add that the gig was made of the tip of the horn, and looked,
while spinning, like an inverted extinguisher. It was hollow, but my
impression is that there was sometimes lead at the bottom of the inside.
Even with the ballast, it was a ticklish, volatile, kickety thing, much
more difficult to set up and to keep up than the sober whipping-top, and
bearing somewhat the same relation to one in bulk and motion, {284} that a
ship's gig may do to herself, or a gig on land to a coach. As to Gig Hill,
however, unless it has a conical top, some other explanation must be
sought.

N. B.

    [C., E. H., and numerous other correspondents, have also kindly replied
    to this Query.]

_Epigram against Burke_ (Vol. iii., P. 243.).--

 "Oft have I heard that ne'er on Irish ground,
  A poisonous reptile ever yet was found;
  Nature, though slow, will yet complete her work,
  She has saved her venom to create a Burke."

The author of these lines was Warren Hastings himself; his private
secretary (Mr. Evans) sat by his side during the trial, and saw him write
the above. My authority is a niece of Mr. Evans, who formed one of her
uncle's family at the period of the trial.

N. M.

_Engraved Portrait_ (Vol. iii., p. 209.).--This is the portrait of Samuel
Clarke, the ejected minister of Bennet Fink, London. I have three
impressions of this engraving now before me. Two of these are in an
illustrated Granger, and are in different states, the earlier one having no
shading in the background. The third copy is prefixed to--

    "A Collection of the Lives of Ten Eminent Divines, Famous in their
    Generations for Learning, Prudence, Piety, and painfuless in the work
    of the Ministry, &c. By Sa. Clarke, Preacher of the Gospel in St.
    Bennet Fink, London, 1662." 4to.

Very likely the same plate had been previously used for some other of
Clarke's numerous publications. At the end of the verses beneath the
portrait, my copies have "P.V.A.M. _fecit_," which, I suppose, are the
initials of Peter Vinke.

JOHN I. DREDGE.

A full and interesting account of this worthy divine is given in _Granger_,
vol. v. p. 73.; and the quatrain will be found annexed to a brief account
of the same portrait in Ames's _English Heads_, p. 43.

J. F. Y.

_Salgado's Slaughter-house_ (Vol. ii., p. 358.).--Your correspondent asks,
Who was Salgado? and his question has not yet, I believe, been answered.
James Salgado, whose name does not appear in any biographical dictionary,
though it deserves to do, and whose pieces are unnoticed in Peck's
Catalogue, though they should certainly not have been omitted, was a
Spanish priest, who renounced the Roman Catholic belief, and was imprisoned
by the Inquisition, and after undergoing many sufferings made his escape to
England in the latter part of the reign of Charles II. His history is
contained in _An Account of his Life and Sufferings_, in a 4to. tract in my
possession, entitled, _A Confession of Faith of James Salgado, a Spaniard,
and sometimes a Priest in the Church of Rome_, London, 1681, 4to. Watt and
Lowndes both notice some of his pieces, but their lists are very imperfect,
and do not comprise the tract, of which your correspondent gives the title,
and which is also in my possession, and several others which I have noted
in my copy of my _Confession_, but which it is perhaps unnecessary to
enumerate here.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

_Mathew's (not Ma_tt_hew's) Mediterranean Passage_ (Vol. iii., p. 240.).--I
have a copy of this work, and shall have pleasure in forwarding it to
MERCURII for perusal, if he will address a note to me, which the publisher
of "NOTES AND QUERIES" will forward.

NIBOR.

Oxford, March 29. 1851.

_The Mitre and the "Cloven Tongues"_ (Vol. iii., p. 146.).--My attention
has just been directed to the remark of your correspondent L. M. M. R., who
adduces the miracle of the "cloven tongues as of fire" as having supplied
the form of the mitre.

This is an old explanation; but your correspondent does not appear to be
aware that "cloven" has been rejected by high classical authority, as not
being a correct interpretation of the word [Greek: diamerizomenai]. The
exact translation is, "And tongues as of fire appeared, being distributed
to them." The same verb is used in the passage, "They _parted_ my garments
among them,"--parted or distributed--the exact equivalent.

It appears to me that the translators have here made an extraordinary
blunder. They have, I think, mistaken [Greek: diamêrizô] for [Greek:
diamerizô]. For the peculiar meaning of the former verb I beg to refer
those who have not observed it, to Liddell and Scott's _Lexicon_. The
substitution of a letter here ([eta] for [epsilon]) would give to the
Scripture term a significance, which, though analogous to that of the
current translation, is immeasurably distant from the exact interpretation.

HUGHES FRAZER HALLE.

Chudleigh, March 24. 1851.

_Slums_ (Vol. iii., p. 224.).--This word is, I take it, an Americanism,
being an abbreviation of _settlements_.

The _back settlements_ and _back slums_ are used synonymously.

D. Q.

"_God's Acre_" (Vol. ii., p. 56.).--On looking back to some of your old
numbers I find W. H. K. has never been answered with regard to the above
application of the term to churchyards. Longfellow (Liverpool edition,
1850, p. 36.) commences one of his poems thus:

 "I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls
    The burial-ground _God's Acre_. It is just;
  It consecrates each grave within its walls,
    And breathes a benison o'er the sleeping dust."

Whether this may be any help to W. H. K., I know not, but I cannot refrain
from the Query--What is the Saxon phrase alluded to?

W. H. P.

{285}

_Wages in the last Century_ (Vol. iii., p. 143.).--I have a note on this
subject which is at A. A.'s service, extracted from the _Gentleman's
Magazine_ for May 1732, vol. ii p. 771.:--

    "WAGES (YEARLY) appointed by the Justices, A.D. 1732, to be taken by
    the Servants in the County of Kent.

                                                 £     s.    d.
  Head Ploughman, Waggoner, or Seedsman          8     0     0
  His Mate                                       4     0     0
  Best Woman Servant                             3     0     0
  Second Sort                                    2     0     0
  Second Ploughman                               6     0     0
  His Mate                                       3     0     0
  Labourers by the Day, in Summer                0     1     2
  Ditto, in Winter                               0     1     0

  _County of Gloucester._

  Head Servant in Husbandry                      5     0     0
  Second Servant                                 4     0     0
  Driving Boy under 14 Years                     1     0     0
  Head Maid Servant in Dairy, and Cook           2    10     0
  Second Maid Servant                            2     0     0
  Mower in Hay Harvest, without Drink,
  per Day                                        0     1     2
  With Drink, per Day                            0     1     0
  Mower and Reaper in Corn Harvest, with
  Diet, per Day                                  0     1     0
  Other Day labourer, from Corn to Hay
  Harvest, with Drink only, per Day              0     0     8
  With Diet, per Day                             0     0     4
  Without Diet or Drink, per Day                 0     0    10
  Carpenter, Wheelwright, and Mason, without
  Drink, per Day                                 0     1     2
  With Drink, per Day                            0     1     0."

I send the note as I have it in my commonplace book; but I should think
that the periodical from which the above is extracted, contains much that
would suit A. A.'s purpose.

E. S. TAYLOR.

Martham, Norfolk.

_Tradesmen's Signs_ (Vol. iii., p. 224.).--The _projecting_ signs over
tradesmen's shop-doors were removed under the London Paving Act, 6 Geo.
III. c. 26. s. 17. In the _Percy History of London_, i. 179., the act is
erroneously said to have been passed in 1762. From Malcolm's _Anecdotes of
London_, pp. 468, 469., it seems that the clause in question was inserted
in the act in consequence of inquiries by a committee appointed by the
Court of Common Council in 1764. _Mr. Peter Cunningham_, in the "London
Occurrences" prefixed to his _Handbook for London_, says: "1766. The
house-signs of London taken down."

No doubt the existing Metropolitan Paving Acts contain clauses which will
prevent tradesmen from again putting up _projecting signs_.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

_Standfast's Cordial Comforts, &c._ (Vol. iii., p. 143.).--ABHBA will find
in a catalogue of curious books published by G. Bumstead, 205. High
Holborn, an early edition of Standfast. It is described thus:

    "Standfast (R.), A Little Handful of Cordial Comforts, and a Caveat
    against Seducers; with the Blind Man's Meditations, and a Dialogue
    Between a Blind Man and Death, 12mo. 1684."

This may assist ABHBA in his researches.

Z.

_St. Pancras_ (Vol. ii., p. 496.).--Your correspondent MR. YEOWELL asks
where C. J. Smith's collection of MSS., cuttings and prints, &c. relating
to the parish of St. Pancras, are deposited? It is in the library of
Richard Percival, Esq., 9. Highbury Park, Islington.

Can any of your readers give an account of St. Pancras? He was martyred May
12, 304.

R.

    [Has our correspondent looked at the _Calendar of the Anglican Church_,
    lately published by Parker of Oxford? A brief notice of St. Pancras
    will be found on p. 274. of that useful little work.]

_Lines on "Woman's Will"_ (Vol. i., p. 247.).--Although somewhat late in
the day, I send you the following paragraph from the _Examiner_ of May 31,
1829:

    "_Woman's Will._--The following lines (says a correspondent of the
    _Brighton Herald_) were copied from the pillar erected on the Mount in
    the Dane-John Field, formerly called the Dungeon Field, Canterbury:

     'Where is the man who has the power and skill
      To stem the torrents of a woman's will?
      For if she will, she will, you may depend on't,
      And if she won't, she won't so there's an end on't."'

H. C.

Workington.

_Scandal against Queen Elizabeth_ (Vol. ii., p. 393.; Vol. iii., p.
11.).--In _Hubback on the Evidence of Succession_, p. 253, after some
remarks on the word "natural," not of itself in former times denoting
illegitimacy, this passage occurs:

    "But as early as the time of Elizabeth the word _natural_, standing
    alone, had acquired something of its present meaning. The Parliament,
    in debating upon the act establishing the title to the crown in the
    Queen's issue, thought it proper to alter the words 'issue lawfully
    begotten,' into 'natural-born issue,' conceiving the latter to be a
    more delicate phrase. But this created a suspicion among the people,
    that the Queen's favourite, Leicester, intended after her death to set
    up some bastard of his own, pretending it was born of her, and bred up
    privately."--Duke of Buckingham _On Treasons_, cited Amos's
    _Fortescue_, p. 154.

J. H. L.

_Coggeshall Job_ (Vol. iii., p. 167.).--Does J. C. allude to the tradition
that the Coggeshall people placed hurdles in the stream to turn the river,
and chained up the wheelbarrow when the mad dog bit it?

J. H. L.

_Whale caught at Greenwich before the Death of Cromwell_ (Vol. iii., p.
207.).--B. B. wishes a record {286} of the capture of a whale at Greenwich,
immediately previous to Cromwell's death. I take leave to inform him that,
in a tract entitled _A Catalogue of natural Rarities, with great Industry,
Cost and thirty Years' Travel in foreign Countries collected, by Robert
Hubert, alias Forges, Gent., and sworn Servant to his Majesty. And Dayly to
be seen at the Place called the Musick House, at the Miter, near the West
End of St. Paul's Church_, 1664, there is the following item:--

    "The vein of the tongue of that whale that was taken up at Greenwich, a
    little before Cromwell's death."

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

_Fronte Capillatâ, &c._ (Vol. iii., pp. 8. 43. 124.).--The following lines
from Tasso's _Amore Fuggitivo_ contain the same figure as the Latin quoted
above:

 "Crespe hà le chiome e d'oro,
  E in quella guisa appunto,
  Che Fortuna si pinge
  Ha lunghi e folti in sulla fronte i crini;
  Ma nuda hà poi la testa
  Agli opposti confini."

ROBERT SNOW.

The lines quoted by your correspondent are from Peacock's "Headlong Hall,"
and are imitated from Machiavelli's "Capitolo dell' Occasione." The whole
air stands thus; the second stanza differing slightly from the version
given by MR. BURT. The lines are very pretty, at least in my opinion.

     "LOVE AND OPPORTUNITY.

 "Oh! who art thou, so swiftly flying?
    My name is Love, the child replied;
  Swifter I pass than south-winds sighing,
    Or streams through summer vales that glide.
  And who art thou, his flight pursuing?
   'Tis cold Neglect whom now you see:
  The little god you there are viewing,
    Will die, if once he's touched by me.

 "Oh! who art thou so fast proceeding,
    Ne'er glancing back thine eyes of flame?
  Mark'd but by few, through earth I'm speeding,
    And Opportunity's my name.
  What form is that which scowls beside thee?
    Repentance is the form you see:
  Learn then, the fate may yet betide thee.
    She seizes them who seize not me."

W. R. M.

_John Sanderson, or the Cushion-dance_ (Vol. ii., p. 517.).--Though I am
unable to answer your correspondent Mac's inquiry as to the antiquity of
this dance, it may interest him as well as others of the readers of "NOTES
AND QUERIES" to know, that when Walpole made up his mind to abandon his
Excise bill (which met with a still fiercer opposition out of doors than in
the House of Commons), he signified his intention to a party of his
adherents at the supper-table, by quoting the first line of the
accompanying song:--

 "This dance it will no further go!"[7]

This, at least, shows the popularity of this dance in the reign of George
II.

H. C.

Workington.

[Footnote 7: This occurred in the year 1733.]

_George Steevens and William Stevens_ (Vol. iii, p. 230.).--The late Sir
J. A. Park wrote _Memoirs of William Stevens_, the Treasurer of Queen
Anne's Bounty, and the biographer of Jones of Nayland. As little
resemblance must have existed between this gentleman and "the Puck of
commentators," George Steevens, as between the two Harveys:

 "The one invented Sauce for Fish
    The other Meditations."

J. H. M.

_Memoirs of Stevens_ by the late Sir James Allan Park have been published,
and are well worth reading; but this Stevens was not George Steevens, the
Shakespearian commentator, but William, Treasurer of Queen Anne's Bounty,
one of the most meek and humble minded of men.

    "He was inferior to none in profound knowledge, and steady practice of
    the doctrines and discipline of the Church of England; austere to
    himself alone, charitable and indulgent towards others, he attracted
    the young by the cheerfulness of his temper, and the old by the
    sanctity of his life."

MISS BOCKETT should not confound such a holy character with George
Steevens.

E. H.

_Memoirs of George Steevens, Esq., F.R.S. and F.S.A._ (Vol. iii., p.
119.).--In answer to A. Z. it may be stated that a brief memoir of Mr.
Steevens was given in Nichols's _Literary Anecdotes of the Eighteenth
Century_, Vol. ii. p. 680.; further anecdotes, and some of his letters, in
vol. v. of Nichols's _Literary Illustrations_; and further letters (his
correspondence with Dr. Percy, Bishop of Dromore), in vol. vii. of the
latter work; besides many incidental notices, which will be found by
reference to the indexes. On the last occasion a copy of his portrait by
Dance, was attached; and in vol. v. of the _Literary Illustrations_ is an
engraving of his monument by Flaxman, in Poplar Chapel.

N.

_Tradescant_ (Vol. iii., p. 119.).--At what period the elder Tradescant
came into England is not with certainty known, but it is supposed to have
been about the end of Queen Elizabeth's reign, or the beginning of that of
James I. He obtained the title of _Royal Gardener_ circa 1629.

It may not be superfluous to mention (on the authority of Allen's _History
of Lambeth_, p. 142.) that formerly the three following lines were on the
monument in Lambeth churchyard, until its {287} reparation by public
subscription in 1773, when they were left out:

    "This monument was erected at the charge of _Hester Tradescant_, the
    relict of _John Tradescant_, late deceased, who was buried the 25th of
    April, 1662."

ALFRED W. H.

Kennington.

_Origin of Harlequins_ (Vol. iii., p. 165.).--Your correspondent and
querist E. L. N. wishes for an account of the Origin of Harlequins. I beg
to refer E. L. N. to an account of the Hellequines, or "La Mesnie
Hellequin," given by M. Paul Paris, in his work on the _Manuscripts
François de la Bib. du Roi_, vol. i. p. 322. M. Paris says:

    "On donnoit ce nom (Hellequines) à des espèces de feux follets ou
    génies plutôt malfaisants que favorables, et plutôt moqueurs que
    malfaisants.... L'origine de la tradition de la Mesnie Hellequin se
    perd dans l'obscurité des temps. On l'entendoit surtout bruire dans les
    environs de la ville d'_Arles_.... J'ignore la première origine de
    cette locution; mais ce qui me semble incontestable, c'est qu'on
    confondit facilement la Mesnie Hellequin avec celle '_de la Mort_,'
    famille bariolée de rouge et de noir, et dont le manteau de cérémonie
    devoit être un grand pan de toile ou linceul. Déjà le lecteur a devancé
    la conséquence qu'il faut tirer de tout cela; la Mesnie Hellequin,
    partie nécessaire des cortéges effrayants ou grotesques dans le
    moyen-âge, est devenue insensiblement, sous la main des arrangeurs,
    notre _famille d'Arlequin_. Le costume bariolé d'Arlequin n'est rien
    autre que le fantastique costume du représentant de la Mort.... Et, si
    ce que je viens de dire est fondé, on ne répètera plus après Ménage
    (Gilles), que le mot _Arlequin_ fut pris d'abord, sur la fin du XVI
    siècle, par un certain bouffon italien que le Président _Harlay_ avoit
    accueilli. Il est certain que le mot _Arlequin_ se trouve
    très-anciennement dans un grand nombre de mystères.

    "'Numquid me velis,' ecrivoit Jean Raulin, mort en 1514, 'antiquam
    illam familiam Harlequini, revocare, ut videatur mortuus inter mundanæ
    curiæ nebulas et caligines equitare?'"

By the above extracts, which I fear you will find too long, harlequinades
would seem rather to be derived from the wanton pranks of sprites than the
coarse gambols of buffoons; and this derivation would certainly best agree
with the accepted character of the modern harlequin.

H. C. C.

"_Predeceased_" and "_Designed_" (Vol. iii., p. 143.).--The former word is
used in an active sense by Shakspeare, in his "Rape of Lucrece:"

 "If children _predecease_ progenitors,
  We are their offspring, and they none of ours."

"Designed," in the sense of "designated," is employed by Locke:

    "'Tis not enough to make a man a subject, to convince him that there is
    regal power in the world; but there must be ways of _designing_ and
    knowing the person to whom the regal power of right belongs."

COWGILL.

"_Quadrijugis invectus equis," &c._ (Vol. ii., p. 391.).--These lines, in
which "veriis" and "antesolat" are, of course, misprints for "variis" and
"antevolat," apply with such peculiar exactness to Guido's celebrated
Aurora, at the Rospigliosi Palace, that I cannot but think the painting has
given rise to the lines. Besides, in the ancient mythology, the Horæ are
said to be _three_ in number, daughters of Jupiter and Themis, and one of
their offices was harnessing the horses of the Sun. It is unlikely,
therefore, that any classic author would mention them as being seven in
number.

C. I. R.

_St. John's Bridge Fair_ (Vol. iii., p. 88.).--Perhaps in the county of
Northampton, and in the city of Peterborough, where a fair, commencing
October 2d, is still called "Bridge Fair." The parish church of
Peterborough is dedicated to St. John Baptist; but a fair on the saint's
day would be too near the other, and probably more ancient fair, which is
held on old St. Peter's Day, to whom the cathedral church is dedicated.

ARUN.

_Anticipations of Modern Ideas by Defoe_ (Vol. iii., pp. 137. 195.).--It is
a singular fact, to which I do not remember a reference has hitherto been
made, that Defoe, in his _Life and Adventures of Captain Singleton_, has
foreshadowed the discovery by recent travellers of a great inland lake in
the South of Africa. He describes his adventurous hero and companions,
during their attempt to cross this vast continent from Mozambique to
Angola, as having, on the ninth day of their journey, come in "view of a
great lake of water."

    "The next day," he adds, "which was the tenth from our setting out, we
    came to the edge of this lake, and happily for us, we came to it at the
    south point of it, for to the north we could see no end of it; so we
    passed by it, and travelled three days by the side of it."--_Life,
    Adventures, and Piracies of Captain Singleton_, chap. vi.

According to a rough calculation by one of the party, they were, a few days
before reaching it, 700 miles from the coast of Mozambique, and 1500 from
the Cape of Good Hope. Now Messrs. Murray and Oswell, the enterprising
travellers to whom we owe the discovery of this vast South African lake,
describe it as being in longitude 24° East, latitude 19° South; a position
not very wide apart from that indicated in Defoe's amusing fiction.

T. C. SMITH.

_Lord Howard of Effingham_ (Vol. iii., p. 244.).--I submit that the
passages quoted by your correspondent are not sufficient evidence to lead
us to conclude that that nobleman _ever_ was a Protestant. As to the
"neglect of reverence to the Holy Sacrament," it is only said that the
priests might pretend _that_ as a cause; and it is not to be supposed that
an ambassador would so far forget himself as to show any disrespect to the
religion of the {288} prince he was sent to. Besides, it is likely that
Lord Howard was chosen for the embassy as being a Catholic, and therefore
more acceptable to a prince of the same religion.

2nd. Fuller's words only refer to testimony on a disputed fact, on which
Catholic evidence the effect quoted by him would have peculiar weight.

3rd. The words to Garnet, who had declared his innocence and abhorrence of
the imputed crime, are such as a Catholic would be most likely to use.

4th. The word "_our_," in the royal instructions, is the word of form, and
resembles the editorial "_we_." In royal instructions to Mr. Shiel at
Florence, Mr. Wyse at Naples, or Mr. More O'Ferrall at Malta, her Majesty
would use the words "our religion;" would that imply that any or all of
those gentlemen were Protestants?

After all, Lord Howard may have conformed to the court religion after the
period of the Armada: occasional conformity was frequent at the period.

KERRIENSIS.

_Separation of the Sexes in Church_ (Vol. ii., p. 94.; Vol. iii., p.
94.).--In _Collectanea Topographica, &c._, vol. iii. p. 134., is printed
the "Account of the Proctors of the Church of Yeovil, co. Somerset, 36 Hen.
VI. 1457-8." The learned editor says:

    "The first item is remarkable, as affording an instance of seats being
    made subject to sale at so early a period;" and proceeds: "it may be
    observed that the two sexes must have sat in different parts of the
    church, as, with only one exception, the seats are let to other persons
    of the same sex as before."

LLEWELLYN.

_Separation of the Sexes in Time of Divine Service_ (Vol. ii., p. 94.).--A
proof of the correctness of the remark advanced in this note is afforded by
the practice followed in the little church of Covington, Huntingdonshire,
where a few of the old open seats remain towards the western end, in which
each sex still sits on its proper side, although the custom does not hold
with respect to the pews which some of the farmers and others have erected
for themselves at the eastern end.

ARUN.

_Separation of the Sexes at Church._--Many of your correspondents have
taken up the separation of the living at church, but none have alluded to
the dead. I extract the following from a deed of the 34th of Elizabeth:--

    "But also in the two severall vawtes or towmbes in the sayd chappell,
    and in the sowthe syde of the same, and in the wall of the sayd church,
    ffor themselves only to bury in; that is to say, in the upper of the
    same, standing eastwards, to bury the deade bodyes of the men, being
    ancestors of the sayd A. B.; and in the lower, standing westwards, to
    bury the deade bodies of the women, being wyves or children female of
    his, the said A. B.'s ancestors."

Perhaps some of your correspondents can tell us whether such separate
vaults were customary?

_Vox Populi Vox Dei_ (Vol. i., p. 370.).--Your correspondent DANIEL ROCK
states these words to have been chosen by the Archbishop of Canterbury,
Simon Mepham, as his text for the sermon he preached when Edward III. was
called to the throne; and in your Notices to Correspondents, Vol. iii., p.
254., you repeat the statement.

The prelate by whom the sermon was preached was not Simon Mepham, but his
predecessor, Walter Reynolds, who was Archbishop of Canterbury when the
second Edward was deposed, and when Edward III. was crowned, on February 1,
1327. This Walter Reynolds died on November 16, 1327, and Simon Mepham was
appointed his successor on December 11, 1327. John Toland, in his _Anglia
Libera_, p. 114., has this reference to the sermon which was preached by
the Archbishop Reynolds on the occasion of the king's coronation:

    "To Edward I. succeeded his son Edward II., who growing an intolerable
    tyrant, was in a parliament summoned by himself formally accused of
    misgovernment, and on his own acknowledging the truth of this charge,
    solemnly deposed. When his son, Edward III., was elected with universal
    consent, Walter, the Archbishop of Canterbury, preached the coronation
    sermon, and took these words for his text, "_Vox populi Vox Dei_, the
    voice of the people is the voice of God,"--so little did they dream in
    those days of the divine right of monarchy, or that all power did not
    originally derive from the people, for whom and by whom all governments
    are erected and maintained."

Sir Harris Nicolas in his _Synopsis of the Peerage,_ and Dugdale in his
_Monasticon_, give the name of this Archbishop as Walter Reynolds. Sir
Richard Baker, in his _Chronicle_, describes him as Walter Reginald; and in
Hume's _England_ he is called Walter de Reynel.

ST. JOHNS.

_Mazer Wood_ (Vol. iii., p. 239.).--The Querist asks, "Has the word Mazer
any signification in itself?"

It is used to signify a cup. Vide Walter Scott's _Lord of the Isles_, where
Robert Bruce is speaking:

 "Bring here, he said, the Mazers four,
  My noble fathers loved of yore."

And it is probably derived from the Irish "Maeddher," a standing cup,
generally of _wood_, of a quadrangular form, with a handle on each of the
sides. The puzzle was how to drink out of it, which was done from the
angles. A silver "Maeddher" was presented to Lord Townshend when leaving
Ireland, who puzzled many of his English friends by placing it before them
filled with claret. Uninitiated persons usually attempted to drink from the
flat side, and poured the wine over their clothes. I think another was
presented to Lord Normanby when in Ireland. We see _gutta percha_ {289}
cups and buckets everywhere now-a-days. Perhaps such an utensil might have
been among the dishes, &c. mentioned in the Catalogue of the Tradescant
Museum.

KERRIENSIS.

    [See a curious note on Mazers, used as large drinking-cups, or goblets,
    in Walter Scott's _Poetical Works_, p. 488., edit. 1848.]

_Traditions from remote Periods through few Hands_ (Vol. iii., p.
237.).--The following facts may not be uninteresting on this subject.

