"For pity's sake, my dear cousins," cried Claribel, "do not quarrel.
Remember, destitute orphans as we are, we have nothing left in this
world but each other, and if we are not united, what is to become of
us?"

Adrian was touched; looking tenderly on his sister, "Claribel is
right," said he. "We are, indeed, bereaved of every thing else, and
shall we forsake each other? Ah, Amaranthé!" he continued, his eyes
swimming in tears, "time was when all our joys and all our wishes
centred in each other. How fondly you once loved me--and is it at an
end? Will you love me no more?" The native good feelings of Amaranthé's
heart, that had so long lain dormant, were now revived. Bursting into an
agony of crying, she threw her arms round her brother's neck, and sobbed
out, "Yes, yes, dear Adrian; I love you better than ever. Oh, do but be
kind to me, and I will cease to deplore the loss of my beauty." After
embracing her affectionately, Adrian, looking mournfully round,
observed--"This was the scene of our childish sports. How joyously we
bounded like fawns over this lawn! When turning our hoops or tossing our
balls, how little cared I for riches or you for beauty! And there,"
pointing with his hand, "is the shrubbery where we used to play at hide
and seek, and laugh at poor Claribel for not being able to find us. See
the woodbine that you and she used to twine round my hat and crook, when
I played at being a shepherd."

"And those," said Amaranthé, "are the trees you so often climbed to get
birds' eggs for Claribel and me to string, when we pretended to be
hermits, and called them our rosaries!"

"Happy, happy days of blessed innocence!" groaned out her brother;
"would to heaven ye could be recalled! Never again would I barter ye for
grandeur and licentiousness!"

While the unhappy trio continued weeping over these painful
recollections, they suddenly observed an extraordinary appearance in the
air. A large machine, resembling a car, was hovering in it, and at
length descending slowly to the earth fixed itself at no great distance
from them. They then saw a lady clad in a purple robe, with a long white
wand in her hand, step out of it and advance towards them. They were
immediately struck with the belief that it was the fairy, but with what
different sensations did the brother and sister now greet her, to those
which her first appearance had occasioned! Confused and dismayed, they
would have fled from her presence had not terror rendered them
motionless, for they doubted not that she was come to reproach them, if
not to punish their ill conduct. When she drew nearer, and they ventured
to look at her again, they discovered that the figure was taller and
more dignified than that of Felicia. Her face was not so fair, and its
expression was more solemn, but her countenance was more commanding, and
her aspect altogether inspired awe and veneration. "Perhaps," whispered
Claribel, "it is the fairy Benigna." The minds of her cousins assented
to this suggestion, but it by no means diminished their apprehensions.
If they had so much cause to dread the censure of Felicia, what had they
to hope from the severe Benigna?

Trembling, and not daring to speak or move, they stood before her,
while she regarded them for some time in silence, with looks that lost
much of their solemnity, and expressed pity and benevolence. Then, in a
mild tone, said, "Poor hapless victims of ignorance and error, your
consciences tell you that I am come to inflict the chastisement due to
your folly and guilt; but lay aside your fears. I can allow for and
compassionate the offences of feeble mortality. I am come to take you
from this scene of desolation and disgrace, which can only remind you of
lost happiness. Are you willing to trust yourselves with me?" Whatever
the private inclinations of the party might be, they were too much in
awe of this powerful being to offer any resistance to her will: they
only bowed in token of submission. She then placed them all in the car,
and mounting it herself after them, waved her wand when the machine
arose with a gentle motion into the air, which it wafted them through,
but at what rate, or whither to, they could not judge. They were so
amazed, and their senses so bewildered, that they almost doubted if they
were awake, or whether all that had passed were not a dream!

They could not calculate how long they had been travelling in this easy
manner, when they found the vehicle again descending to the earth, where
it rested before a white house, that had every appearance of neatness
and comfort, though not of magnificence.

It was situated in the middle of a garden, laid out in excellent taste,
and well stored with fruits, flowers, and shrubs of all kinds, bounded
by verdant meadows, with a fine river passing through them, and the
surrounding country richly cultivated, and luxuriantly beautiful.

Their conductress desired them to enter the house, where the first
objects that met their view, were Ursula and Gabriel, who had been
conveyed thither by the agents of the fairy, and who welcomed them with
raptures of joy.

Benigna led them through the apartments which were sufficiently spacious
for convenience, and fitted up with elegance and propriety. The last she
introduced them into was, a library, furnished with a large collection
of books, maps, globes, &c. "And now, my young friends," said she, "do
you think you can be happy in such a habitation as this?" Adrian,
willing to ingratiate himself in her opinion, promptly replied, "Ah,
Madam, we shall be most happy to receive any favour from you. You, no
doubt, will always continue your generous kindness, and not desert us
like the treacherous Felicia."

"Presumptuous mortal!" answered Benigna, with a frown, "what right
have you or your sister to call Felicia treacherous? Did you not
obstinately persist in choosing the gifts she warned you against? And
did either of you practise the good precepts she gave you with them? Had
they been observed, you are conscious that you might still have been
rich, and Amaranthé handsome. But come," she added, observing the effect
her words had upon them, "be not alarmed. My design is not to arraign,
but to instruct. The fact is, my sister is not treacherous, but she is
injudicious. Her power is very limited, and the few gifts she has to
bestow, are more likely to ensnare than to benefit those whom she means
to serve. She gave you, indeed, good advice, but she could not endow you
with the good sense that would enable you to follow it. Even you, my
quiet Claribel, have not, I fancy, profited much by her favor. Say, were
you very happy in the possession of your lily?" Claribel, after
considering a little, answered, "I do not know that I was absolutely
happy. I was, indeed, always contented, as she promised I should be, and
never felt inclined to repine, or be vexed at any thing; but I do not
remember ever experiencing any particular pleasure." "No," returned the
fairy, "nor would any one under such circumstances. The content Felicia
bestowed on you, was not the happy result of a well-regulated mind,
satisfied with its own exertions, and the performance of those duties
incumbent on all rational beings. It was indolence, mistaken for a
virtue. A being endued with reason, of which it obeys not the dictates;
with faculties, of which it makes no use, but is content to occupy its
station in life without fulfilling the purposes for which it was placed
there, is scarcely less censurable than those who waste their time in
riot and dissipation. Others may reap some advantage from their follies,
but no benefit can be derived from a mere moving machine."

