If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or
software or other items, please contact Michael Hart at:
hart@pobox.com

**END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.08.01*END**
[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these Etexts are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg Etexts or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]


This Etext prepared by Charles Hall chall@rtpnet.org


ON BOOKS AND THE HOUSING OF THEM

BY William Ewart Gladstone (1809-1898)


In the old age of his intellect (which at
this point seemed to taste a little of 
decrepitude), Strauss declared [1] that the doctrine of
immortality has recently lost the assistance
of a passable argument, inasmuch as it has
been discovered that the stars are inhabited;
for where, he asks, could room now be found
for such a multitude of souls? Again, in view
of the current estimates of prospective 
population for this earth, some people have begun to
entertain alarm for the probable condition of
England (if not Great Britain) when she gets
(say) seventy millions that are allotted to her
against six or eight hundred millions for the
United States. We have heard in some 
systems of the pressure of population upon food;
but the idea of any pressure from any 
quarter upon space is hardly yet familiar. Still, I
suppose that many a reader must have been
struck with the naive simplicity of the hyperbole 
of St. John, [2] perhaps a solitary unit of its
kind in the New Testament: "the which if
they should be written every one, I suppose
that even the world itself could not contain
the books that should be written."

A book, even Audubon (I believe the biggest
known), is smaller than a man; but, in relation
to space, I entertain more proximate 
apprehension of pressure upon available space from
the book population than from the numbers of
mankind. We ought to recollect, with more
of a realized conception than we commonly
attain to, that a book consists, like a man,
from whom it draws its lineage, of a body and
a soul. They are not always proportionate to
each other. Nay, even the different members
of the book-body do not sing, but clash, when
bindings of a profuse costliness are imposed,
as too often happens in the case of Bibles and
books of devotion, upon letter-press which is
respectable journeyman's work and nothing
more. The men of the Renascence had a
truer sense of adaptation; the age of jewelled
bindings was also the age of illumination and
of the beautiful miniatura, which at an earlier
stage meant side or margin art,[3] and then, on
account of the small portraitures included in
it, gradually slid into the modern sense of
miniature. There is a caution which we ought
to carry with us more and more as we get in
view of the coming period of open book trade,
and of demand practically boundless. Noble
works ought not to be printed in mean and
worthless forms, and cheapness ought to be
limited by an instinctive sense and law of 
fitness. The binding of a book is the dress
with which it walks out into the world. The
paper, type and ink are the body, in which its
soul is domiciled. And these three, soul, body,
and habilament, are a triad which ought to be
adjusted to one another by the laws of harmony
and good sense.

Already the increase of books is passing into
geometrical progression. And this is not a
little remarkable when we bear in mind that
in Great Britain, of which I speak, while there
is a vast supply of cheap works, what are
termed "new publications" issue from the
press, for the most part, at prices fabulously
high, so that the class of real purchasers
has been extirpated, leaving behind as buyers
only a few individuals who might almost be
counted on the fingers, while the effective 
circulation depends upon middle-men through the
engine of circulating libraries. These are not
so much owners as distributers of books, and
they mitigate the difficulty of dearness by 
subdividing the cost, and then selling such copies
as are still in decent condition at a large 
reduction. It is this state of things, due, in my
opinion, principally to the present form of the
law of copyright, which perhaps may have
helped to make way for the satirical (and 
sometimes untrue) remark that in times of distress
or pressure men make their first economies on
their charities, and their second on their books.

The annual arrivals at the Bodleian Library
are, I believe, some twenty thousand; at the
British Museum, forty thousand, sheets of all
kinds included. Supposing three-fourths of
these to be volumes, of one size or another,
and to require on the average an inch of
shelf space, the result will be that in every
two years nearly a mile of new shelving will
be required to meet the wants of a single
library. But, whatever may be the present
rate of growth, it is small in comparison with
what it is likely to become. The key of the
question lies in the hands of the United
Kingdom and the United States jointly. In
this matter there rests upon these two Powers
no small responsibility. They, with their vast
range of inhabited territory, and their unity
of tongue, are masters of the world, which
will have to do as they do. When the 
Britains and America are fused into one book
market; when it is recognized that letters,
which as to their material and their aim are
a high-soaring profession, as to their mere
remuneration are a trade; when artificial 
fetters are relaxed, and printers, publishers, and
authors obtain the reward which well-regulated 
commerce would afford them, then let
floors beware lest they crack, and walls lest
they bulge and burst, from the weight of
books they will have to carry and to confine.

It is plain, for one thing, that under the
new state of things specialism, in the future,
must more and more abound. But specialism
means subdivision of labor; and with 
subdivision labor ought to be more completely,
more exactly, performed. Let us bow our
heads to the inevitable; the day of 
encyclopaedic learning has gone by. It may perhaps
be said that that sun set with Leibnitz.
But as little learning is only dangerous when
it forgets that it is little, so specialism is
only dangerous when it forgets that it is
special. When it encroaches on its betters,
when it claims exceptional certainty or 
honor, it is impertinent, and should be rebuked;
but it has its own honor in its own 
province, and is, in any case, to be preferred to
pretentious and flaunting sciolism.

A vast, even a bewildering prospect is 
before us, for evil or for good; but for good,
unless it be our own fault, far more than for
evil. Books require no eulogy from me; none
could be permitted me, when they already
draw their testimonials from Cicero[4] and
Macaulay.[5] But books are the voices of the
dead. They are a main instrument of 
communion with the vast human procession of
the other world. They are the allies of the
thought of man. They are in a certain sense
at enmity with the world. Their work is, at
least, in the two higher compartments of our
threefold life. In a room well filled with
them, no one has felt or can feel solitary.
Second to none, as friends to the individual,
they are first and foremost among the compages,
the bonds and rivets of the race, 
onward from that time when they were first
written on the tablets of Babylonia and 
Assyria, the rocks of Asia minor, and the 
monuments of Egypt, down to the diamond 
editions of Mr. Pickering and Mr. Frowde.[6]

It is in truth difficult to assign dimensions
for the libraries of the future. And it is also
a little touching to look back upon those of
the past. As the history of bodies cannot,
in the long run, be separated from the history
of souls, I make no apology for saying a few
words on the libraries which once were, but
which have passed away.

The time may be approaching when we
shall be able to estimate the quantity of book
knowledge stored in the repositories of those
empires which we call prehistoric. For the
present, no clear estimate even of the great
Alexandrian Libraries has been brought 
within the circle of popular knowledge; but it
seems pretty clear that the books they 
contained were reckoned, at least in the 
aggregate, by hundreds of thousands.[7] The form
of the book, however, has gone through many
variations; and we moderns have a great
advantage in the shape which the exterior
has now taken. It speaks to us symbolically
by the title on its back, as the roll of 
parchment could hardly do. It is established that
in Roman times the bad institution of slavery
ministered to a system under which books
were multiplied by simultaneous copying in a
room where a single person read aloud in the
hearing of many the volume to be 
reproduced, and that so produced they were 
relatively cheap. Had they not been so, they
would hardly have been, as Horace represents
them, among the habitual spoils of the grocer.[8]
It is sad, and is suggestive of many 
inquiries, that this abundance was followed,
at least in the West, by a famine of more
than a thousand years. And it is hard, even
after all allowances, to conceive that of all
the many manuscripts of Homer which Italy
must have possessed we do not know that a
single parchment or papyrus was ever read
by a single individual, even in a convent, or
even by a giant such as Dante, or as Thomas
Acquinas, the first of them unquestionably
master of all the knowledge that was within
the compass of his age. There were, 
however, libraries even in the West, formed by
Charlemagne and by others after him. We
are told that Alcuin, in writing to the great
monarch, spoke with longing of the relative
wealth of England in these precious estates.
Mr. Edwards, whom I have already quoted,
mentions Charles the Fifth of France, in 1365,
as a collector of manuscripts. But some ten
years back the Director of the Bibliotheque
Nationale informed me that the French King
John collected twelve hundred manuscripts,
at that time an enormous library, out of which
several scores were among the treasures in
his care. Mary of Medicis appears to have
amassed in the sixteenth century, probably
with far less effort, 5,800 volumes.[9] Oxford
had before that time received noble gifts for
her University Library. And we have to
recollect with shame and indignation that
that institution was plundered and destroyed
by the Commissioners of the boy King 
Edward the Sixth, acting in the name of the
Reformation of Religion. Thus it happened
that opportunity was left to a private 
individual, the munificent Sir Thomas Bodley, to
attach an individual name to one of the 
famous libraries of the world. It is interesting
to learn that municipal bodies have a share
in the honor due to monasteries and 
sovereigns in the collection of books; for the 
Common Council of Aix purchased books for a
public library in 1419.[10]

Louis the Fourteenth, of evil memory, has
at least this one good deed to his credit, that
he raised the Royal Library at Paris, founded
two centuries before, to 70,000 volumes. In
1791 it had 150,000 volumes. It profited largely
by the Revolution. The British Museum had
only reached 115,000 when Panizzi became
keeper in 1837. Nineteen years afterward he
left it with 560,000, a number which must now
have more than doubled. By his noble design
for occupying the central quadrangle, a desert
of gravel until his time, he provided additional
room for 1,200,000 volumes. All this 
apparently enormous space for development is being
eaten up with fearful rapidity; and such is the
greed of the splendid library that it opens its
jaws like Hades, and threatens shortly to
expel the antiquities from the building, and
appropriate the places they adorn.

But the proper office of hasty retrospect in
a paper like this is only to enlarge by degrees,
like the pupil of an eye, the reader's 
contemplation and estimate of the coming time, and
to prepare him for some practical suggestions
of a very humble kind. So I take up again
the thread of my brief discourse. National
libraries draw upon a purse which is 
bottomless. But all public libraries are not national.
And the case even of private libraries is 
becoming, nay, has become, very serious for all
who are possessed by the inexorable spirit of
collection, but whose ardor is perplexed and
qualified, or even baffled, by considerations
springing from the balance-sheet.

The purchase of a book is commonly 
supposed to end, even for the most scrupulous
customer, with the payment of the bookseller's
bill. But this is a mere popular superstition.
Such payment is not the last, but the first
term in a series of goodly length. If we wish
to give to the block a lease of life equal to
that of the pages, the first condition is that it
should be bound. So at least one would have
said half a century ago. But, while books
are in the most instances cheaper, binding,
from causes which I do not understand, is
dearer, at least in England, than it was in my
early years, so that few can afford it.[11]  We
have, however, the tolerable and very useful
expedient of cloth binding (now in some 
danger, I fear, of losing its modesty through
flaring ornamentation) to console us. Well,
then, bound or not, the book must of 
necessity be put into a bookcase. And the 
bookcase must be housed. And the house must
be kept. And the library must be dusted,
must be arranged, should be catalogued. What
a vista of toil, yet not unhappy toil! Unless
indeed things are to be as they now are in
at least one princely mansion of this country,
where books, in thousands upon thousands,
are jumbled together with no more 
arrangement than a sack of coals; where not even
the sisterhood of consecutive volumes has
been respected; where undoubtedly an 
intending reader may at the mercy of Fortune
take something from the shelves that is a
book; but where no particular book can 
except by the purest accident, be found.

Such being the outlook, what are we to do
with our books? Shall we be buried under
them like Tarpeia under the Sabine shields?
Shall we renounce them (many will, or will
do worse, will keep to the most worthless
part of them) in our resentment against their
more and more exacting demands? Shall we
sell and scatter them? as it is painful to see
how often the books of eminent men are
ruthlessly, or at least unhappily, dispersed
on their decease. Without answering in 
detail, I shall assume that the book-buyer is a
book-lover, that his love is a tenacious, not
a transitory love, and that for him the 
question is how best to keep his books.

I pass over those conditions which are the
most obvious, that the building should be
sound and dry, the apartment airy, and with
abundant light. And I dispose with a passing
anathema of all such as would endeavour to
solve their problem, or at any rate 
compromise their difficulties, by setting one row
of books in front of another. I also freely
admit that what we have before us is not
a choice between difficulty and no difficulty,
but a choice among difficulties.

The objects further to be contemplated in
the bestowal of our books, so far as I 
recollect, are three: economy, good arrangement,
and accessibility with the smallest possible
expenditure of time.

In a private library, where the service of
books is commonly to be performed by the
person desiring to use them, they ought to be
assorted and distributed according to subject.
The case may be altogether different where
they have to be sent for and brought by an
attendant. It is an immense advantage to
bring the eye in aid of the mind; to see
within a limited compass all the works that
are accessible, in a given library, on a given
subject; and to have the power of dealing
with them collectively at a given spot, instead
of hunting them up through an entire 
accumulation. It must be admitted, however, that
distribution by subjects ought in some degree
to be controlled by sizes. If everything on a
given subject, from folio down to 32mo, is to
be brought locally together, there will be an
immense waste of space in the attempt to
lodge objects of such different sizes in one
and the same bookcase. And this waste of
space will cripple us in the most serious
manner, as will be seen with regard to the
conditions of economy and of accessibility.
The three conditions are in truth all 
connected together, but especially the two last
named.

Even in a paper such as this the question
of classification cannot altogether be 
overlooked; but it is one more easy to open than
to close -- one upon which I am not bold
enough to hope for uniformity of opinion and
of practice. I set aside on the one hand the
case of great public libraries, which I leave
to the experts of those establishments. And,
at the other end of the scale, in small private
libraries the matter becomes easy or even 
insignificant. In libraries of the medium scale,
not too vast for some amount of personal
survey, some would multiply subdivision, and
some restrain it. An acute friend asks me
under what and how many general headings
subjects should be classified in a library 
intended for practical use and reading, and
boldly answers by suggesting five classes
only: (1) science, (2) speculation, (3) art,
(4) history, and (5) miscellaneous and 
periodical literature. But this seemingly simple
division at once raises questions both of
practical and of theoretic difficulty. As to the
last, periodical literature is fast attaining to
such magnitude, that it may require a 
classification of its own, and that the enumeration
which indexes supply, useful as it is, will not
suffice. And I fear it is the destiny of 
periodicals as such to carry down with them a
large proportion of what, in the phraseology
of railways, would be called dead weight, as
compared with live weight. The limits of
speculation would be most difficult to draw.
The diversities included under science would
be so vast as at once to make sub-
classification a necessity. The olog-ies are by no means
well suited to rub shoulders together; and
sciences must include arts, which are but
country cousins to them, or a new 
compartment must be established for their 
accomodation. Once more, how to cope with the
everlasting difficulty of 'Works'? In what
category to place Dante, Petrarch, 
Swedenborg, Burke, Coleridge, Carlyle, or a hundred
more? Where, again, is Poetry to stand?
I apprehend that it must take its place, the
first place without doubt, in Art; for while it
is separated from Painting and her other
'sphere-born harmonious sisters' by their 
greater dependence on material forms they are all
more inwardly and profoundly united in their
first and all-enfolding principle, which is to
organize the beautiful for presentation to the
perceptions of man.

But underneath all particular criticism of
this or that method of classification will be
found to lie a subtler question -- whether the
arrangement of a library ought not in some
degree to correspond with and represent the
mind of the man who forms it. For my own
part, I plead guilty, within certain limits, of
favoritism in classification. I am sensible
that sympathy and its reverse have something
to do with determining in what company a
book shall stand. And further, does there
not enter into the matter a principle of 
humanity to the authors themselves? Ought
we not to place them, so far as may be, in
the neighborhood which they would like?
Their living manhoods are printed in their
works. Every reality, every tendency, endures.
Eadem sequitur tellure sepultos.

I fear that arrangement, to be good, must
be troublesome. Subjects are traversed by
promiscuous assemblages of 'works;' both by
sizes; and all by languages. On the whole
I conclude as follows. The mechanical 
perfection of a library requires an alphabetical
catalogue of the whole. But under the shadow
of this catalogue let there be as many living
integers as possible, for every well-chosen
subdivision is a living integer and makes the
library more and more an organism. Among
others I plead for individual men as centres
of subdivision: not only for Homer, Dante,
Shakespeare, but for Johnson, Scott, and
Burns, and whatever represents a large and
manifold humanity.

The question of economy, for those who
from necessity or choice consider it at all, is
a very serious one. It has been a fashion to
make bookcases highly ornamental. Now
books want for and in themselves no 
ornament at all. They are themselves the 
ornament. Just as shops need no ornament,
and no one will think of or care for any
structural ornament, if the goods are 
tastefully disposed in the shop-window. The man
who looks for society in his books will 
readily perceive that, in proportion as the face of
his bookcase is occupied by ornament, he
loses that society; and conversely, the more
that face approximates to a sheet of 
bookbacks, the more of that society he will enjoy.
And so it is that three great advantages come
hand in hand, and, as will be seen, reach
their maximum together: the sociability of
books, minimum of cost in providing for
them, and ease of access to them.

In order to attain these advantages, two
conditions are fundamental. First, the shelves
must, as a rule, be fixed; secondly, the cases,
or a large part of them, should have their
side against the wall, and thus, projecting
into the room for a convenient distance, they
should be of twice the depth needed for a
single line of books, and should hold two
lines, one facing each way. Twelve inches
is a fair and liberal depth for two rows of
octavos. The books are thus thrown into
stalls, but stalls after the manner of a stable,
or of an old-fashioned coffee-room; not after
the manner of a bookstall, which, as times
go, is no stall at all, but simply a flat space
made by putting some scraps of boarding
together, and covering them with books.

This method of dividing the longitudinal
space by projections at right angles to it, if
not very frequently used, has long been
known. A great example of it is to be found
in the noble library of Trinity College, 
Cambridge, and is the work of Sir Christopher
Wren. He has kept these cases down to
very moderate height, for he doubtless took
into account that great heights require long
ladders, and that the fetching and use of
these greatly add to the time consumed in
getting or in replacing a book. On the other
hand, the upper spaces of the walls are 
sacrificed, whereas in Dublin, All Souls, and
many other libraries the bookcases ascend
very high, and magnificent apartments walled
with books may in this way be constructed.
Access may be had to the upper portions by
galleries; but we cannot have stairs all round
the room, and even with one gallery of books
a room should not be more than from 
sixteen to eighteen feet high if we are to act on
the principle of bringing the largest possible
number of volumes into the smallest possible
space. I am afraid it must be admitted that
we cannot have a noble and imposing 
spectacle, in a vast apartment, without sacrificing
economy and accessibility; and vice versa.

The projections should each have attached
to them what I rudely term an endpiece (for
want of a better name), that is, a shallow
and extremely light adhering bookcase (light
by reason of the shortness of the shelves),
which both increases the accommodation, and
makes one short side as well as the two long
ones of the parallelopiped to present simply
a face of books with the lines of shelf, like
threads, running between the rows.

The wall-spaces between the projections
ought also to be turned to account for 
shallow bookcases, so far as they are not 
occupied by windows. If the width of the interval
be two feet six, about sixteen inches of this
may be given to shallow cases placed against
the wall.

Economy of space is in my view best 
attained by fixed shelves. This dictum I will
now endeavor to make good. If the shelves
are movable, each shelf imposes a dead
weight on the structure of the bookcase,
without doing anything to support it. Hence
it must be built with wood of considerable
mass, and the more considerable the mass
of wood the greater are both the space 
occupied and the ornament needed. When the
shelf is fixed, it contributes as a fastening to
hold the parts of the bookcase together; and
a very long experience enables me to say
that shelves of from half- to three-quarters of
an inch worked fast into uprights of from
three-quarters to a full inch will amply suffice
for all sizes of books except large and heavy
folios, which would probably require a small,
and only a small, addition of thickness.

I have recommended that as a rule the
shelves be fixed, and have given reasons for
the adoption of such a rule. I do not know
whether it will receive the sanction of 
authorities. And I make two admissions. First,
it requires that each person owning and 
arranging a library should have a pretty 
accurate general knowledge of the sizes of his
books. Secondly, it may be expedient to
introduce here and there, by way of exception,
a single movable shelf; and this, I believe,
will be found to afford a margin sufficient to
meet occasional imperfections in the 
computation of sizes. Subject to these remarks, I
have considerable confidence in the 
recommendation I have made.

I will now exhibit to my reader the 
practical effect of such arrangement, in bringing
great numbers of books within easy reach.
Let each projection be three feet long, twelve
inches deep (ample for two faces of octavos),
and nine feet high, so that the upper shelf
can be reached by the aid of a wooden stool
of two steps not more than twenty inches
high, and portable without the least effort in
a single hand. I will suppose the wall space
available to be eight feet, and the projections,
three in number, with end pieces need only
jut out three feet five, while narrow strips of
bookcase will run up the wall between the
projections. Under these conditions, the
bookcases thus described will carry above
2,000 octavo volumes.

And a library forty feet long and twenty
feet broad, amply lighted, having some 
portion of the centre fitted with very low 
bookcases suited to serve for some of the uses of
tables, will receive on the floor from 18,000
to 20,000 volumes of all sizes, without losing
the appearance of a room or assuming that
of a warehouse, and while leaving portions
of space available near the windows for 
purposes of study. If a gallery be added, there
will be accommodation for a further number
of five thousand, and the room need be no
more than sixteen feet high. But a gallery
is not suitable for works above the octavo
size, on account of inconvenience in carriage
to and fro.

It has been admitted that in order to 
secure the vital purpose of compression with
fixed shelving, the rule of arrangement 
according to subjects must be traversed 
partially by division into sizes. This division,
however, need not, as to the bulk of the
library, be more than threefold. The main
part would be for octavos. This is becoming
more and more the classical or normal size;
so that nowadays the octavo edition is 
professionally called the library edition. Then
there should be deeper cases for quarto and
folio, and shallower for books below octavo,
each appropriately divided into shelves.

If the economy of time by compression is
great, so is the economy of cost. I think it
reasonable to take the charge of provision for
books in a gentleman's house, and in the
ordinary manner, at a shilling a volume.
This may vary either way, but it moderately
represents, I think, my own experience, in
London residences, of the charge of fitting
up with bookcases, which, if of any 
considerable size, are often unsuitable for removal.
The cost of the method which I have adopted
later in life, and have here endeavored to
explain, need not exceed one penny per 
volume. Each bookcase when filled represents,
unless in exceptional cases, nearly a solid
mass. The intervals are so small that, as a
rule, they admit a very small portion of dust.
If they are at a tolerable distance from the
fireplace, if carpeting be avoided except as to
small movable carpets easily removed for
beating, and if sweeping be discreetly 
conducted, dust may, at any rate in the country,
be made to approach to a quantite negligeable.

It is a great matter, in addition to other
advantages, to avoid the endless trouble and
the miscarriages of movable shelves; the
looseness, and the tightness, the weary arms,
the aching fingers, and the broken 
fingernails. But it will be fairly asked what is to
be done, when the shelves are fixed, with
volumes too large to go into them? I admit
that the dilemma, when it occurs, is 
formidable. I admit also that no book ought to be
squeezed or even coaxed into its place: they
should move easily both in and out. And I
repeat here that the plan I have 
recommended requires a pretty exact knowledge by
measurement of the sizes of books and the
proportions in which the several sizes will
demand accommodation. The shelf-spacing
must be reckoned beforehand, with a good
deal of care and no little time. But I can
say from experience that by moderate care
and use this knowledge can be attained, and
that the resulting difficulties, when measured
against the aggregate of convenience, are
really insignificant. It will be noticed that
my remarks are on minute details, and that
they savor more of serious handiwork in the
placing of books than of lordly survey and
direction. But what man who really loves
his books delegates to any other human 
being, as long as there is breath in his body,
the office of inducting them into their homes?

And now as to results. It is something to
say that in this way 10,000 volumes can be
placed within a room of quite ordinary size,
all visible, all within easy reach, and without
destroying the character of the apartment as
a room. But, on the strength of a case with
which I am acquainted, I will even be a little
more particular. I take as before a room of
forty feet in length and twenty in breadth,
thoroughly lighted by four windows on each
side; as high as you please, but with only
about nine feet of height taken for the 
bookcases: inasmuch as all heavy ladders, all
adminicula requiring more than one hand to
carry with care, are forsworn. And there is
no gallery. In the manner I have described,
there may be placed on the floor of such a
room, without converting it from a room into
a warehouse, bookcases capable of receiving,
in round numbers, 20,000 volumes.

The state of the case, however, considered
as a whole, and especially with reference to
libraries exceeding say 20,000 or 30,000 
volumes, and gathering rapid accretions, has
been found to require in extreme cases, such
as those of the British Museum and the
Bodleian (on its limited site), a change more
revolutionary in its departure from, almost
reversal of, the ancient methods, than what
has been here described.

The best description I can give of its 
essential aim, so far as I have seen the 
processes (which were tentative and initial), is
this. The masses represented by filled 
bookcases are set one in front of another; and,
in order that access may be had as it is
required, they are set upon trams inserted in
the floor (which must be a strong one), and
wheeled off and on as occasion requires.

The idea of the society of books is in a
case of this kind abandoned. But even on this
there is something to say. Neither all men
nor all books are equally sociable. For my
part I find but little sociabilty in a huge wall
of Hansards, or (though a great improvement)
in the Gentleman's Magazine, in the Annual
Registers, in the Edinburgh and Quarterly
Reviews, or in the vast range of volumes
which represent pamphlets innumerable. Yet
each of these and other like items variously
present to us the admissible, or the valuable,
or the indispensable. Clearly these masses,
and such as these, ought to be selected first
for what I will not scruple to call interment.
It is a burial; one, however, to which the
process of cremation will never of set purpose
be applied. The word I have used is 
dreadful, but also dreadful is the thing. To have
our dear old friends stowed away in 
catacombs, or like the wine-bottles in bins: the
simile is surely lawful until the use of that
commodity shall have been prohibited by the
growing movement of the time. But however
we may gild the case by a cheering 
illustration, or by the remembrance that the 
provision is one called for only by our excess of
wealth, it can hardly be contemplated without
a shudder at a process so repulsive applied
to the best beloved among inanimate objects.

It may be thought that the gloomy 
perspective I am now opening exists for great
public libraries alone. But public libraries
are multiplying fast, and private libraries are
aspiring to the public dimensions. It may be
hoped that for a long time to come no grave
difficulties will arise in regard to private
libraries, meant for the ordinary use of that
great majority of readers who read only for
recreation or for general improvement. But
when study, research, authorship, come into
view, when the history of thought and of 
inquiry in each of its branches, or in any 
considerable number of them, has to be presented,
the necessities of the case are terribly 
widened. Chess is a specialty and a narrow one.
But I recollect a statement in the Quarterly
Review, years back, that there might be
formed a library of twelve hundred volumes
upon chess. I think my deceased friend, Mr.
Alfred Denison, collected between two and
three thousand upon angling. Of living 
Englishmen perhaps Lord Acton is the most
effective and retentive reader; and for his
own purposes he has gathered a library of
not less, I believe, than 100,000 volumes.

Undoubtedly the idea of book-cemeteries
such as I have supposed is very formidable.
It should be kept within the limits of the dire
necessity which has evoked it from the 
underworld into the haunts of living men. But it
will have to be faced, and faced perhaps
oftener than might be supposed. And the
artist needed for the constructions it requires
will not be so much a librarian as a 
warehouseman.

But if we are to have cemeteries, they
ought to receive as many bodies as possible.
The condemned will live ordinarily in pitch
darkness, yet so that when wanted, they may
be called into the light. Asking myself how
this can most effectively be done, I have
arrived at the conclusion that nearly two-thirds,
or say three-fifths, of the whole cubic
contents of a properly constructed apartment[12]
may be made a nearly solid mass of books:
a vast economy which, so far as it is applied,
would probably quadruple or quintuple the
efficiency of our repositories as to contents,
and prevent the population of Great Britain
from being extruded some centuries hence
into the surrounding waters by the exorbitant
dimensions of their own libraries.

         - The End -

FOOTNOTES:

1- In Der alte und der neue Glaube

2- xxi, 25.

3- First of all it seems to have referred to the red 
capital letters placed at the head of chapters or other 
divisions of works.

4- Cic. Pro Archia poeta, vii.

5- Essays Critical and Historical, ii. 228.

6- The Prayer Book recently issued by Mr. Frowde at 
the Clarendon Press weighs, bound in morocco, less 
than an once and a quarter. I see it stated that unbound 
it weighs three-quarters of an ounce. Pickering's 
Cattullus, Tibullus, and Propertius in leather binding, 
weighs an ounce and a quarter. His Dante weighs less 
than a number of the Times.

7- See Libraries and the Founders of Libraries, by 
B. Edwards, 1864, p. 5. Hallam, Lit. Europe.

8- Hor. Ep. II. i. 270; Persius, i. 48; Martial, iv. lxxxvii. 8.

9- Edwards.                            

10- Rouard, Notice sur la Bibliotheque d'Aix, p. 40. 
Quoted in Edwards, p. 34.

11- The Director of the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris,
which I suppose still to be the first library in the 
world, in doing for me most graciously the honors of 
that noble establishment, informed me that they full-bound 
annually a few scores of volumes, while they 
half-bound about twelve hundred. For all the rest 
they had to be contented with a lower provision. And 
France raises the largest revenue in the world.

12- Note in illustration. Let us suppose a room 28 feet
by 10, and a little over 9 feet high. Divide this 
longitudinally for a passage 4 feet wide. Let the passage 
project 12 to 18 inches at each end beyond the line of 
the wall. Let the passage ends be entirely given to 
either window or glass door. Twenty-four pairs of 
trams run across the room. On them are placed 56 
bookcases, divided by the passage, reaching to the 
ceiling, each 3 feet broad, 12 inches deep, and separated 
from its neighbors by an interval of 2 inches,
and set on small wheels, pulleys, or rollers, to work
along the trams. Strong handles on the inner side of
each bookcase to draw it out into the passage. Each
of these bookcases would hold 500 octavos; and a room
of 28 feet by 10 would receive 25,000 volumes. A room
of 40 feet by 20 (no great size) would receive 60,000,
It would, of course, be not properly a room, but a
warehouse.