Produced by Brownfox and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: [_From an oil painting by the Author in the possession of
Edwin Jenkins, Esq._]]


                                SARONIA


                      A Romance of Ancient Ephesus

                                   BY

                              RICHARD SHORT

                              [Illustration]


                                 LONDON
                 ELLIOT STOCK, 62, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.
                                  1900


                                CONTENTS

          CHAPTER                                   PAGE
                I. THE AGORA                          1
               II. THE MESSENGER OF EROS              4
              III. THE CURSE OF HECATE                9
               IV. SANCTUARY                         18
                V. THE TEMPLE OF DIANA               23
               VI. LUCIUS                            28
              VII. CAUGHT                            34
             VIII. PAYING THEIR VOWS                 38
               IX. THE STUDIO OF CHIOS               41
                X. THE RIBBON OF GOLD                46
               XI. THE PRIESTESS OF DIANA            50
              XII. THE FESTIVAL OF ARTEMIS           53
             XIII. CHIOS THE GREEK                   60
              XIV. THE GROVE OF HECATE               66
               XV. AT VENUSTA'S HOUSE                76
              XVI. A GARDEN ON CORESSUS              83
             XVII. THE PICTURE                       85
            XVIII. WARNING                           91
              XIX. THE DAWN OF FAITH                 97
               XX. PLEADING                         105
              XXI. THE WITCH                        108
             XXII. THE LOVE-PHILTRE                 111
            XXIII. THE CHARMED WINE                 120
             XXIV. THE MINSTREL                     125
              XXV. THE SACRED HOUNDS                131
             XXVI. ON THE VERGE                     135
            XXVII. ONE FOR ANOTHER                  145
           XXVIII. SPIRITS OF THE DEEP              153
             XXIX. MYRTLE AND OLEANDER              162
              XXX. BY THE RIVER CAYSTER             165
             XXXI. THE DOOMED CITY                  171
            XXXII. ENDORA                           175
           XXXIII. NIKA                             180
            XXXIV. THE HOROSCOPE                    184
             XXXV. THE VIRGIN CAVE                  191
            XXXVI. REVERIE                          195
           XXXVII. THE MESSAGE                      199
          XXXVIII. THE DEAD PRIEST                  204
            XXXIX. CONSTERNATION                    209
               XL. TWO MASTER MINDS                 212
              XLI. DAYBREAK                         221
             XLII. VARRO                            227
            XLIII. MYSTERY                          231
             XLIV. ACRATUS, THE TEMPLE SPOILER      235
              XLV. REVELATION                       238
             XLVI. THE CROWN OF LIFE                249
            XLVII. PARTING                          253


                            SARONIA


                           CHAPTER I

                           THE AGORA


The sun had risen in all its splendour, and was flooding the bay and
mountains with silvery light. The river Cayster moved on its course, and
mixed its waters with the blue of the Ægean Sea, and washed the shores
of Samos, appearing like a purple vision on the ocean. Boats and ships
of quaint form and gorgeous colouring, propelled by a gentle breeze,
moved to and fro, and glided up the shining way which led to the great
city of Ephesus, the chief of Ionia, and the home of the goddess. Not
far away was shining like a brilliant star the marble pillars of the
Temple of Diana. Ephesus was now fully awake, and the people were moving
along its streets, some wending their way to the temples to offer their
morning devotions, others hastening to the great theatre, and many more
directing their course towards their daily toil; for men must work, even
within the precincts of a city where all is splendour. The city, with
its wealth of art and stores of gold, was envied of conquerors. Situated
between the mountains, its inhabitants had a noble chance of making it
beautiful, and, being skilled in art and endowed with learning, they
built temples of the noblest design, erected statues of the richest
order, painted pictures of the grandest conception. Odeum and theatre
all sprang forth in magical beauty and power, whilst villas replete with
elegance combined to make it one of the loveliest cities, surrounded
with hills and groves and the traditions of a line of centuries.

The great market was being filled with men and women offering the most
tempting products of the land. Groups were selling and buying fruits,
flowers and perfumes, bread, fish and wine. Ribbon-sellers,
chaplet-weavers, money-changers--all were there; and the people
purchased for their daily needs, whilst others bought rich offerings for
the temples of their goddess and their gods.

Here and there the ground was covered with flowers of richest shades and
sweetest fragrance, and great branches with clustering blossoms of
crimson oleander and myrtle lay around.

From the house of the Roman Lady Venusta the slave Saronia had come to
buy. She was clothed in the simplest manner, tall and beautifully
formed, with eyes speaking a tale of sadness and a weariness of life; a
dignified slave, but a slave nevertheless, purchased but a year ago, and
brought hither by a trading-barque from Sidon, in Phoenicia, where she
had served as a slave from childhood.

She gathered together her pomegranates, citrons, almonds, olives, and
flowers, placed them in her basket of wickerwork, walked out of the
market, and passed up the way which led to the home of her mistress. But
the splendour to which she hastened was a prison to her. She so full of
young life, she who felt within her the rising for supremacy (an
unquenchable spirit), she with a mystic flame burning up her soul, felt
it was not a home but a waiting-place until the Fates passed by and led
her on.

True, Venusta treated Saronia fairly well, but Nika, her daughter, hated
her--from the first she hated her. And why this hate? Nika herself could
scarcely say; but who has not felt this subtle power to love or hate at
first sight--an intuitive something which draws or repels without our
reason or consent? Perhaps it was the great sadness of Saronia's eyes,
the overflowing influence of a mighty spirit, that Nika disliked so
much; or perhaps it was that when Chios, the Greek, came to visit the
Romans, he spoke kindly to the slave, and thus Nika detested her. It may
be so.

Passing by the great theatre and the Odeum, she went up the shaded way
over the side of Mount Coressus, and came to the beautiful home of
Venusta, passed in laden with fruit and flowers, great clusters of
sweet-scented blossoms falling from the basket as she raised it from her
head. For a moment she stood as in a dream, with girdled drapery falling
to her feet, and her gaze firmly fixed upon the great temple appearing
full in view as she looked through the window, which allowed the
sunlight to penetrate into her room.

That night, when her work was done, she mounted the marble steps
surrounding the house, and breathed the pleasant, perfumed air which
came down the mountain-side and danced through the myrtle groves.

The moon had well-nigh reached her meridian and sent forth her pale,
cool light, bathing the city in its glory, making the great hills look
so strange and lonely, as star after star struggled to show their
quivering rays; but the light of the Queen of Heaven, the great Moon
Goddess, absorbed them all.

'Twas then the spirit of the girl was moved, and she said to herself:

'Ah! what am I, most Holy Mother, most chaste Luna, great Orb which
symbols forth all Nature's mother, thou great Ashtoreth whom I was
taught to adore in childhood when in Sidon? Well do I remember when I
raised my tiny hand and kissed it unto thee. And they tell me here,
also, thou art the same mother, but under another name; that in Ionia
they call thee Diana instead of Ashtoreth, and that yonder mighty temple
is thy dwelling-place, around whose sacred pillars spreads a sanctuary
where those who flee are safe. Holy Mother! May I flee to thee? They say
even a slave may come to thy sanctuary, and once there with a just
cause, is ever safe from the fiercest Roman or the rudest Greek.'

And thus she spoke until a flock of night-birds flew along and like a
cloud obscured the moon, and a voice, sounding like a silver lute,
seemed to say:

'My face is veiled with earth-born things; those birds are dark to thee,
but every wing before my gaze is tipped with light and silver sheened.
So shalt thou see thy sorrows when thou fully knowest me.'


                           CHAPTER II

                     THE MESSENGER OF EROS


The great theatre at Ephesus was thronged; over fifty thousand people
had gathered together to witness a new play. Amongst them were Nika and
Chios.

'Dost thou like the play?' she asked. 'They tell me the tragedy was
wrought in Phoenicia, and has been played with great success in Sidon,
from thence to Cyprus, and now here. It pleases thee, Chios?'

'Yes, fairly so; and would do so more were it not that through it runs a
vein of suffering, making one wish he could fit disjointed elements so
properly together as to make the poor richer, the weak stronger, and the
mighty less tyrannical.'

'Chios, again thou art a dreamer. Thou shouldst have a planet all thine
own, and, after setting up thy kings governing each particular section
of thine orb, thou then shouldst sit enthroned above them all and play
the mighty demigod.'

'Nay, Nika, stay thy wit; thou makest sport of my poor sympathies.'

'Yes, yes; it is well, perchance, that thou shouldst bridle in my
tongue. But, after all, thou art too kind; there are those of meaner
dust who would build upon thy kindness until thou be but the hidden
foundation for their super-structure of selfishness. Look, for instance,
at that slave-girl of mine, Saronia the Sidonian, naturally haughty,
arrogant--if I were to free her, she would spit at me. No, no, a place
for everything. A serpent crawls the earth; let it crawl. Dost thou
know, Chios, methinks that girl, with her deep unfathomable eyes of
night-gloom, is not quite so innocent as one might imagine. I suspect
her----'

'Of what?'

'Of what? Why, the old story. She has a lover, and meets him
secretly--so speaks the rumour of our other household slaves. What
thinkest thou?'

'Think? Think it is a base slander on a defenceless maid. She is as pure
as the first dawn of day--a mighty spirit is she, as wild as the north
wind and as untamable as the winged lightning, but as chaste as the snow
on the mountains of Tmolus.'

'Thy words are so sweet for this scornful girl that surely the power of
her magical love encircles thy heart and will eat out thy life. What
next? Wilt thou offer Lucius, my father, a ransom and wed her?'

'Nay, Nika, what thou sayest is not so, may not be; nevertheless, am I
not free to love anything the gods have created and blessed?'

'Yes, yes, go thy ways; but, for all that, it is more seemly for an
eagle to mate with an eagle than with a screech-owl. Thou wilt see her
anon; thy pet slave waiteth without for her mistress. Now go to her for
me and bid her come; and, love-sick boy, be sure she does not fascinate
thee that thou be so transfixed to her side that passers-by think they
see two statues by Scopas, dressed by some wanton wit to imitate the
life.'

'Ah, Nika, thou wert always merry; would thou wert as tender-hearted as
humorous. I obey thee.'

And leaving her, he passed out, and saw Saronia--saw her leaning, tired
and thoughtful, against a pillar, and around its base were richly carved
in strong relief the stories of the gods. Stepping towards her, he said:

'Sleepest thou, or art thou thinking of thy far-away Sidon, or perchance
peering into the future to divine thy fortune? What are the omens? Have
fair ones passed thee as thou standest here?'

'Nay, good sire, I was thinking of neither the past nor the future, but
of the present. I know I am but a slave, a thing who has no right to
speak or move or scarcely think without my mistress's bidding.'

'I pity thee, and have tried to befriend thee.'

'Thou art kind, but it will serve me little; they hate me--they all hate
me, and make my life a misery--but it will not ever be thus. Just now a
woman of peculiar mien stood before me--a woman skilled, she told me, in
the mysteries of fate. Looking at me, she said my star was rising full
of splendour, and would lead me by its power into a knowledge deep and
high--deep as death, high as the heavens. Think you, master, there be
any truth in such woman's talk?'

'I cannot say, Saronia. Of those hidden things I am not given to
understand. I lean towards the new faith, whose founder is one Christ.
Of Him I know little, but 'tis said He is both God and man. What
thinkest thou of this?'

'I know not what to think. I do not know the faith, neither does it seem
to rise for a hearing in my soul. No; born within me is the faith of
Ashtoreth, and as it seems akin to much that is worshipped here, I think
I should feel more at home were I to understand the mysteries of Hecate
and worship at her shrine.'

'Thou dost not know what thou askest, Saronia. The way to those
mysteries is dark and to thee impenetrable. Thou art too good to load
thy spirit with such things of gloom, too young to sacrifice thee there.
Around her darkness hovers--night, everlasting night, abides. I have
heard those who know say this. Are there no brighter hopes for thee? If
not, slave art thou indeed--slave in body, slave in soul.'

'True,' said the girl. 'Slaves are we either in body or spirit,
whomsoever we serve--men or women, goddesses or gods; to such must we
submit and lose our will in that of the greater. Serve, then, the one
thou likest best. For myself, I think I like Diana as Hecate. She, I am
told, rules the underworld. I aspire no higher; my pinions were shorn
away, and I now grovel on the earth, and wish to worship in her bosom.'

'Of what mould art thou, Saronia? I understand thee not. I fear thee
somewhat; my soul quails before the power thou already wieldest. What
wouldst thou be with that great dark spirit of thine if thou only moved
out upon the great ocean of the Ephesian faith? Verily thou wouldst be a
bird of ill-omen to those thou didst hate. Didst thou ever love,
Saronia?'

'What is love?' said she. 'I know it not. Is it a new god?'

'Yes, girl, call it a god if thou pleasest. Call it Eros, call it Venus,
call it what thou mayest, thou wilt fall before it one day and
worship--worship madly and perchance too well. Haste thee now to thy
mistress, Nika; I have already kept thee too long.'

