Produced by Malcolm Farmer and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 146.

January, 28, 1914.


CHARIVARIA.

Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN is starting a movement with the admirable object
of reinvigorating the drama in Wales by forming a travelling troupe of
first-rate actors. It is rumoured that an option has already been
obtained on a native comedian who is at present a member of the Cabinet.

       ***

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER received last week a deputation of the
Men of Kent in order to hear their views in support of the preservation
of the custom of gavelkind; and many persons, we believe, were surprised
to hear that it is a custom and not a disease.

       ***

Mr. RAMSAY MACDONALD, in a speech at Dundee last week, described Mr.
CHURCHILL as the worst Liberal First Lord of the Admiralty that had ever
occupied the position. It is reported that the right honourable
gentleman is having a large number of copies of this statement printed
off as a testimonial.

       ***

"The Labour organ, _The Evening Chronicle_," says a Johannesburg
telegram, "appeared to-day with the leader column blank." The leaders
were, of course, all in gaol.

       ***

In addition to Sir ERNEST SHACKLETON's little party an Austrian
expedition to the Antarctic is also being organised. Such persons as
were intending to go to these regions in the hope of finding quiet and
rest there would do well to hesitate, for it looks as if they may be
rather overcrowded.

       ***

"The American Ambassador," we read last week, "is confined to his room
at the Embassy owing to a cold." Colds, we know, are nasty catching
things, but we consider it shows cowardice on the part of the staff to
have, apparently, locked their chief in his room.

       ***

The Duke of ATHOLL celebrated his jubilee as head of the house of
STEWART-MURRAY last week. In these days to have remained a Duke for so
long as fifty years shows no little grit.

       ***

"A Farnham resident," a contemporary informs us, "was badly stung by a
wasp last week." At this time of year these insects are apt to sting
badly, but in the summer they do it quite well.

       ***

The Roman Temple which has occupied a prominent position in the grounds
of the Crystal Palace during the last three years is to be removed to
Bath, and re-erected there. To the grave regret of the _élite_ of
Sydenham, an attempt to get Kew to take over the large glass house has
failed.

       ***

A little while ago, at the Palladium, there was a Moore and Burgess
revival. It has evidently been discovered that there is a taste for this
sort of entertainment, for it is now announced that Mr. OSCAR ASCHE will
produce this year a play by SIR RIDER HAGGARD in which the popular actor
and his wife will appear as Zulus.

       ***

_Joseph_, we read, is to be produced at Covent Garden next week.
Apparently Sir HERBERT TREE'S friend has now parted from his Brethren.

       ***

A lady in the front of the first circle at Drury Lane, _The Express_
tells us, laughed so heartily the other day in the paper-hanging scene
that her artificial teeth fell out and dropped into the stalls. This
accentuates the importance of having one's teeth plainly marked with
one's name and address.

       ***

Mr. Fred Burlingham, who recently descended into the heart of Vesuvius,
has written a book entitled "How to become an Alpinist." The idea is
good. One likes to learn how to cool oneself after a visit to a crater.

       ***

A little girl of our acquaintance has given the most vivid description
of a cold that we have yet heard. "Well, Phyllis," we said, "how goes it
to-day?" "Horrid," came the answer. "Have to make myself breathe."

       ***

"For the first time for forty years," _The Daily Mail_ tells _us_, "a
wild swan, supposed to have flown across the North Sea, has been shot in
the marshes of the Isle of Sheppey." It does not say much for the
marksmanship of the local sportsmen that this poor creature should have
been shot at all those years without being hit.

       ***

We learn from _The Tailor and Cutter_ that a garment of double fabric,
with india-rubber balls inside to absorb the shock, has been designed
for motorists by a Budapest tailor. But surely it is rather the
pedestrian who needs this armour?

       ***

Mr. W. MCDOUGALL declared in a lecture at the Royal Institution last
week that the cranial capacity of the savage was equal to that of the
average Oxford undergraduate. Cambridge has suspected this for years.

       ***

[Illustration: _First Urchin_. "See, 'err, a Aireoplane!"

_Second Urchin_. "Where?"

_First Urchin_. "See, There--that Loose Bit."]

       ***

"A Wet Sheet and a Flowing Sea."

    "Hitherto more or less content
    with a wet sea and a flowing
    sail...."

    _"Times" Literary Supplement._

It would be terrible if _The Times_ disapproved of the sea being wet.

       ***

"Multiply Your Income by 3.

    £152 × 3 = £375

    Think what you could do if you had three
    times the income you have now."

    _Advt. in "Church Times."_

Sums perhaps.

       ***

    "Mr. R. G. Knowles, the famous comedian, is now out of danger,
    and, acting on his doctor's orders, will start on Thursday for a
    trip to the Argentine, He will be back in London before the end
    of Barch."

    _Liverpool Daily Post_.

Without that biserable cold, we hope.

       ***

Our Picturesque Language.

Extract from Japanese letter:--

    "Our markets do not improve yet but as I working hard as twice
    than last year our business do not much decay than other person,
    which I am glad."

We share this gentleman's joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COCKAIGNE OF DREAMS.

(Based on Sir ASTON WEBB's recent vision of what London might be
like in a hundred years' time_.)

  Thanks to a gift of piercing sight
      (Not far removed from that of MOSES),
  Beyond the secular veil of night
  I see a City crowned with light,
      A London redolent of roses.

  I note an air of morning prime,
      As used by bards for their afflatus,
  Recovered from the spacious time
  Ere yet a triple coat of grime
      Had blocked our breathing-apparatus.

  Swept clean of smuts and chimney-stacks
     Each roof becomes a blooming garden,
  And there, reclining on its backs,
  All day the jocund public slacks
      As in the thymy glades of Arden.

  On Thames's bosom, crystal-clear,
      Glad urchins bob about like bladders;
  The fly is cast from Wapping pier,
  And over the Pool's pellucid weir
      Salmon go leaping up their ladders.

  I dream how Covent's gritty bowers
  (By leave of MALLABY's line) shall wear a
  Fat smile to greet the sunnier hours
  For joy of battles fought with flowers,
  As it might be in Bordighera.

  New Bond Streets on the Surrey side
      Shall flaunt their gems and rare chinchillas
  To swell the local mummer's pride,
  And every bridge shall span the tide
      With Arcadies of Aston villas.

  I see, in fact, old London rise
      From smokeless ashes, like a Phoenix,
  To moral planes where Beauty lies
  And Electricity supplies
      The motive power of pure Hygienics.

  But not in _our_ time (hush, my heart!);
      A score of lustres will have fleeted
  Before the Ministry of Art,
  Though it should make an early start,
      Can hope to see the thing completed.

  Meanwhile this London is my place.
      Sad though her dirt, as I admit, is,
  I love the dear unconscious grace
  That shines beneath her sooty face
      Better than all your well-groomed cities.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A Belgian Princess and Her Creditors.

    'Le Soir' (Brussels) announces that the creditors of Princess
    Louise will receive the sum of 4,172 millions of francs, and
    consequently the legal proceedings before the Court of Appeal
    will not take place."

_Pall Mall Gazette_.

Such a paltry sum to make a fuss about! But, as usual, we hide our real
feelings behind this flippant mask. Reading between the lines we confess
to strange apprehensions. Why has the Princess so gravely exceeded her
dress allowance? Has she, on behalf of her beloved country, been
collecting war-ships? Has she 50 or 60 _Dreadnoughts_ up her sleeve to
upset the balance of naval power on "the day"? We make the German
Chancellor a present of these disturbing reflections.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIS SON'S FATHER.

In at least one of our daily newspapers the attention of the public was
recently drawn to a brilliant young orator, ANTHONY ASQUITH by name, who
began a series of lectures at Antibes before influential audiences. The
first two of the series dealt with aviation and music respectively. We
understand that the titles of the remainder of the series will include
"Physical Culture," "The Limitations of Radium," "The Place of Theosophy
in Metaphysics," and "The Proper Education of the Child."

We learn from a correspondent that this gifted gentleman (who, by the
way, is still quite young, being, well on the bright side of his teens)
is a member of a highly-respected London family resident within a
stone's throw of Whitehall.

After a career full of promise at Oxford, Master ANTHONY ASQUITH's
father was called to the Bar; and although he no longer follows the
profession of barrister (in which, by the way, he rose to the
distinction of King's Counsel), he is not forgotten by many of his old
colleagues in Lincoln's Inn. It was at one time common knowledge that he
would certainly have been made a judge had he only remained active in
his profession. He has devoted the last few years, however, to political
work, which has always had a particular attraction for him. As a man of
sound judgment and ready acumen, Mr. ANTHONY ASQUITH's father is much
honoured in the councils of his own party; he is also a very effective
speaker, and is sure of a large and appreciative audience whenever he
addresses a meeting, whether it be in London or elsewhere.

We venture to predict that the world will hear further of the man whom
the remarkable performance of his youthful son has established within
the public eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW "AGONY COLUMN."

(_A forecast of "Servants Wanted" advertisements, by Mr. Punch's own
Steno-Volapuker. With acknowledgements to "The Daily Mail."_)

Ck-Gen, 9-90, £145, rsng £50 yrly, fam 2 (poss mre), no bsmt, stps,
wndws, boots, wsbg. R.S.V.P. Mrs. Bolt, Laurel Villa, Lee Green, S.E.

Ck, any age, any wage, 3 fam (wrttn gntee furthr arrvls immed disposed
of) no stairs, spats, fncy socks, knves, frks, spoons. Exclnt matrimnal
prosps. The Vicarage, Great Outery.

Ck, marrd or sing, if marrd husb can shro 1st flr suite, beaut furn, pri
bth rm, sth asp, telephne, mo 'bus psses dr, ex cellar kept. Mrs. Bland,
"Nil Desperandum," Muswell Hill, N.

Gen, bright, yng (under 75), £180, pens aftr 6 mnths servce, free
costumes, taxis, theatr tics, rail fres, week-ends sunny sth cst (best
hotls). Interv Carlt Grill Rm, 8 morrow, eve dress op, will intro husb
to engd applcnt, aftwds to Hippo. Mrs. St. John Vernour, Stewkley Mans.,
W.

Gen, age op, no fam (loathe fams), no early dins, late dins, or hot
dins. Wages half emplyrs inc (Chart Accts cert), evry wk-end off, lib
breakges (best china only), charm neighbd, young soc, exc golf clb,
amatr theatrels (leadg prts guarntd), Cindrlla dnce Twn Hll twee
ninthly, ann hoi Deauville, all exes pd, pre-historic ckng only, no veg,
caps, aprons, restrictns. Lchkey, long gard, summr hse. Mrs. Rex Jones,
The Awnings, Bourne End (Pic pal 3 min).

Imbecile, as Gen, £18, 9 fam (last census), honest, wllng, ohlg, early
risr, pin ck, fond hse wk, chldrn, one eve mthly. Mrs. Spero, The
Warren, Stickham-in-Clay, Bucks.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUST CLINCH.

[Illustration: President Wilson. "BREAK AWAY THERE, GENTLEMEN!"

[In his Message to Congress upon legislation regarding Trusts, President
WILSON advocated "the effectual prohibition of interlocking"
amongst great industrial and financial corporations.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

SCALE OF IMPORTANCE IN THE PRODUCTION OF A MODERN REVUE.

[Illustration: Costumier. Principal Actress. Comedian. Producer. Scene
Painter. Composer. Authors.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSIC AND MILLINERY.

The luminous suggestion that ladies attending the forthcoming
performances of _Parsifal_ should wear mantillas instead of aigrettes is
almost the first serious attempt to bring the arts of music and dress
into a true and fitting relation. We are therefore not in the least
surprised to learn that a movement is on foot to promote sumptuary
legislation to secure this end as part and parcel of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE's
far-reaching programme of social reform. Pending the realisation of
these schemes the Editor of _Music for the Million_ has had the happy
thought of interviewing a number of distinguished musicians, whose views
may be summarised herewith.

Sir HENRY WOOD said that conductors and orchestral players were
extraordinarily sensitive to sartorial influences. Unfortunately the
force of tradition was so strong that he found it impossible to indulge
his tastes. It was _de rigueur_ to conduct in either a frock or an
evening coat, but if he had his own way he would vary his garb for every
composer. For example, he would like to wear a harlequin's dress for
STRAUSS, a full-bottomed wig and ruffles for BACH, HAYDN and GLUCK, a
red tie and a cap of Liberty for SCHÖNBERG, and the uniform of a Cossack
of the Ukraine for TCHAIKOVSKY. Instead of which the utmost liberty that
he was allowed was a butterfly tie. He thought that members of the
orchestra ought to be permitted to consult their individual tastes in
dress. Certain restrictions would of course be needed. Thus, uniforms
were all very well for dance and restaurant bands, but he would not like
to see the Queen's Hall Symphony Orchestra competing with Blue
Bessarabians or Pink Alsatians.

Herr KUBELIK declared that a violin _virtuoso_ could never play his best
by daylight. Artificial light, full evening dress and diamonds were
indispensable in an audience. You would not play _bravura_ music to
people in morning costume; it was like drinking champagne out of a
teacup.

Mr. ALGERNON ASHTON said that as the highest form of musical composition
was a Funeral March he was in favour of making black obligatory for all
persons who attended high-class symphonic concerts. The kaleidoscopic
colours affected by modern women of fashion distracted serious artists
and sometimes made them play wrong notes. An exception might perhaps be
allowed in favour of dark purple, because of its association with
mourning, but the glaring colour schemes now in vogue were to be
deprecated as prejudicial to solemnity. It pained him to see music
reduced to the menial position of the handmaid of levity.

Professor BANTOCK said that he was entirely in favour of establishing an
equation between music and the costume of those who performed or
listened to it. For instance, he felt that his _Omar Kháyyám_ would make
a far deeper impression if the audience were all clad in Persian garb.
The same need for local colour would be felt in the case of his new
Siberian symphony, though he admitted that it would be a little trying
if the work was performed in the dog days. The expense was perhaps a
consideration, but people could always afford to purchase a costume for
a fancy ball, and why not for a Symphony concert?

Madame CLARA BUTT said that she found the _timbre_ of her voice was
affected by the costumes of the audience. She strongly condemned the
practice followed by some ladies of fashion of bringing their Pekinese
dogs with them to concerts. It showed disrespect to the performers and
involved cruelty to animals, since the Pekinese only appreciated the
Chinese five-note scale and detested European harmonies.

       *       *       *       *       *

CABINET AND ADMIRALTY.

Another Disclaimer.

A correspondent writes:--"There is no reason to believe that the Cabinet
will remit to the Board of Admiralty the report of the Land Committee
appointed by Mr. LLOYD GEORGE with a view to securing the views of the
Sea Lords, as possessing a wide knowledge of naval affairs, on this
aspect of the Government's policy."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The men demand, roughly, an increase of 1d. a ton."--_Daily
    Chronicle._

Perhaps if they asked politely they might get it.

       *       *       *       *       *

SILVER LININGS.

"We want some more coal," said Celia suddenly at breakfast.

"Sorry," I said, engrossed in my paper, and I passed her the marmalade.

"More coal," she repeated.

I pushed across the toast.

Celia sighed and held up her hand.

"Please may I speak to you a moment?" she said, trying to snap her
fingers. "Good; I've caught his eye. "We want----"

"I'm awfully sorry. What is it?"

"We want some more coal. Never mind this once whether INMAN beat HOBBS
or not. Just help me."

"Celia, you've been reading the paper," I said in surprise. "I thought
you only read the _feuill_--the serial story. How did you know INMAN was
playing HOBBS?"

"Well, POULTON or CARPENTIER or whoever it is. Look here, we're out of
coal. What shall I do?"

"That's easy. Order some more. What do you do when you're out of
nutmegs?"

"It depends if the nutmeg-porters are striking."

"Striking! Good heavens, I never thought about that." I glanced hastily
down the headlines of my paper. "Celia, this is serious. I shall have to
think about this seriously. Will you order a fire in the library? I
shall retire to the library and think this over."

"You can retire to the library, but you can't have a fire there. There's
only just enough for the kitchen for two days."

"Then come and chaperon me in the kitchen. Don't leave me alone with
Jane. You and I and Jane will assemble round the oven and discuss the
matter. B-r-r-r. It's cold."

"Not the kitchen. I'll assemble with you round the electric light
somewhere. Come on."

We went into the library and rallied round a wax vesta. It was a
terribly cold morning.

"I can't think like this," I said, after fifteen seconds' reflection.
"I'm going to the office. There's a fire there, anyway."

"You wouldn't like a nice secretary," said Celia timidly, "or an
office-girl, or somebody to lick the stamps?"

"I should never do any work if you came," I said, looking at her
thoughtfully. "Do come."

"No, I shall be all right. I've got shopping to do this morning, and I'm
going out to lunch, and I can pay some calls afterwards."

"Right. And you might find out what other people are doing, the people
you call on. And--er--if you _should_ be left alone in the drawing-room
a moment ... and the coal-box is at all adjacent.... You'll have your
muff with you, you see, and----Well, I leave that to you. Do what you
can."

I had a good day at the office and have never been so loth to leave. I
always felt I should get to like my work some time. I arrived home again
about six. Celia was a trifle later, and I met her on the mat as she
came in.

"Any luck?" I asked eagerly, feeling in her muff. "Dash it, Celia, there
are nothing but hands here. Do you mean to say you didn't pick up
anything at all?"

