    "Mr. Johne Lermonth, chapline to Alexander Archbishop of St. Andrews,
    hath left upon record in a deduction of the descent of the House of
    Rowallane collected by him at the command of the said Archbishop (whose
    interest in the familie is to be spoken of heirafter), that Robert,
    Great Stewart of Scotland, having taken away the said Elizabeth Mure,
    drew to Sir Adam her father ane instrument that he should take her to
    his lawful wife, (which myself hath seen saith the collector), as also
    ane testimonie written in latine by Roger Mc Adame, priest of our Ladie
    Marie's chapel (in Kyle), that the said Roger maried Robert and
    Elizabeth forsds. But yrafter durring the great troubles in the reign
    of King David Bruce, to whom the Earl of Rosse continued long a great
    enemie, at perswasion of some of the great ones of the time, the Bishop
    of Glasgow, William Rae by name, gave way that the sd marriage should
    be abrogate by transaction, which both the chief instrument, the Lord
    Duglasse, the Bishope, and in all likelihood the Great Stewart himself,
    repented ever hereafter. The Lord Yester Snawdoune, named Gifford, got
    to wife the sd Elizabeth, and the Earl of Rosse's daughter was maried
    to the Great Stewart, which Lord Yester and Eupheme, daughter to the
    Earle of Rosse, departing near to one time, the Great Stewart, being
    then king, openly acknowledged the first mariage, and invited home
    Elizabeth Mure to his lawfull bed, whose children shortlie yrafter the
    nobility did sweare in parliament to maintaine in the right of
    succession to the croune as the only lawfull heirs yrof."

    "In these harder times shee bare to him Robert (named Johne
    Fairneyear), after Earle of Carrick, who succeeded to the croune;
    Robert, after Earl of Fyffe and Maneteeth, and Governour; and
    Alexander, after Earle of Buchane, Lord Badyenoch; and daughters, the
    eldest maried to Johne Dumbar, brother to the Earl of March, after
    Earle of Murray, and the second to Johne the Whyt Lyon, progenitor of
    the House of Glames, now Earle of Kinghorn."

So much for the marriage of Elizabeth Mure, as given by the historian of
the House of Rowallane. Can any of your readers inform me whether Elizabeth
had any issue by her second husband, Lord Yester Snawdoune? If so, there
would be a relationship between Queen Victoria and the Hays, Marquesses of
Tweeddale, and the Brouns, Baronets of Colstoun. One of the latter family
received as a dowry with a daughter of one of the Lords Yester the
celebrated WARLOCK PEAR, said to have been enchanted by the necromancer
Hugo de Gifford, who died in 1267, and which is now nearly six centuries
old. In the _Lady of the Lake_, James Fitz-James is styled by Scott
"Snawdon's knight;" but why or wherefore does not appear, unless Queen
Elizabeth Mure had issue by Gifford. Robert II. was one of three Scottish
kings in succession who married the daughters of their own subjects, and
those only of the degree of knights; namely, David Bruce, who married
Margaret, daughter of Sir John Loggie; Robert II., who married Elizabeth,
daughter of Sir Adam Mure; and Robert III., who married Annabell, daughter
to Sir John Drummond of Stobhall.

SCOTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAY'S ELEGY.--DRONING.--DODSLEY'S POEMS.

(Vol. ii., pp. 264. 301.)

I only recur to the subject of Gray's Elegy to remark, that although your
correspondents, A HERMIT AT HAMPSTEAD, and W.S., have given me a good deal
of information, for which I thank them, they have not answered either of my
Queries.

I never doubted as to the true reading of the third line of the second
stanza of Gray's Elegy, but merely remarked that in one place the
penultimate word was printed _drony_, and other authorities _droning_. With
reference to this point, what I wanted to know was merely, whether, in any
good annotated edition of the poem, it had been stated that when Dodsley
printed it in his _Collection of Poems_, 1755, vol. iv., the epithet
applied to flight was _drony_, and not _droning_? I dare say the point has
not escaped notice; but if it have, the fact is just worth observation.

Next, any doubt is not at all cleared up respecting the date of publication
of Dodsley's Collection. The Rev. J. Mitford, in his Aldine edition of
Gray, says (p. xxxiii.) that the first three volumes came out in 1752,
whereas my copy of "the _second edition_" bears the date of 1748. Is that
the true date, or do editions vary? If the second edition came out in 1748,
what was the date of the first edition? I only put this last question
because, as most people are aware, some poems of note originally appeared
in Dodsley's _Collection of Poems_, and it is material to ascertain the
real year when they first came from the press.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

_Zündnadel Guns_ (Vol. ii., p. 247.).--JARLTZBERG "would like to know when
and by whom they were invented, and their mechanism."

To describe mechanism without diagrams is both tedious and difficult; but I
shall be happy to show JARLTZBRG one of them in my possession, if he will
favour me with a call,--for which purpose I inclose my address, to be had
at your office. The principle is, to load at the breach, and the cartridge
contains the priming, which is ignited by the action of a pin striking
against it. It is one of the worst of many methods of loading at the
breach; and the same principle was patented in England by A.A. Moser, a
German, more than ten years ago. {344}

It has already received the attention of our Ordnance department, and has
been tried at Woolwich. The letter to which JARTZBERG refers, dated Berlin,
Sept. 11., merely shows the extreme ignorance of the writer on such
subjects, as the range he mentions has nothing whatever to do with the
principle or mechanism of the gun in question. He ought also, before he
expressed himself so strongly, to have known, that the extreme range of an
English percussion musket is nearer _one mile_ than _150 yards_ (which
latter distance, he says, they do not exceed) and he would not have been so
astonished at the range of the Zündnadel guns being 800 yards, if he had
seen, as I have, a plain English two-grooved rifle range 1200 yards, with a
proper elevation for the distance, and a conical projectile instead of a
ball.

The form and weight of the projectile fired from rifle, at a considerable
elevation, say 25º to 30º, with sufficient charge of gunpowder, is the
cause of the range and of the accuracy, and has nothing whatever to do with
the construction or means by which it is fired, whether flint or
percussion. The discussion of this subject is probably unsuited to your
publication, or I could have considerably enlarged this communication. I
will, however, simply add, that the Zündnadel is very liable to get out of
order, much exposed to wet, and that it does not in reality possess any of
the wonderful advantages that have been ascribed to it, except a facility
of loading, _while clean_, which is more than counterbalanced by its
defects.

HENRY WILKINSON.

_Thomson of Esholt_ (Vol. ii., p. 268.).--Dr. Whitaker tells us (Ducatus,
ii. 202.) that the dissolved priory of Essheholt was, in the 1st Edw. VI.,
granted to Henry Thompson, Gent., one of the king's _gens d'armes_ at
Bologne. About a century afterwards the estate passed to the more ancient
and distinguished Yorkshire family of Calverley, by the marriage of the
daughter and heir of Henry Thompson, Esq., with Sir Walter Calverley. If
your correspondent JAYTEE consult Sims's useful _Index to the Pedigrees and
Arms contained in the Genealogical MSS. in the British Museum_, he will be
referred to several pedigrees of the family of Thomson of Esholt. Of
numerous respectable families of the name of Thompson seated in the
neighbourhood of York, the common ancestor seems to have been a James
Thompson of Thornton in Pickering Lythe, who flourished in the reign of
Elizabeth. (Vice Poulson's _Holderess_, vol. ii. p. 63.) All these families
bear the arms described by your correspondent, but _without_ the bend
sinister. The crest they use is also nearly the same, viz., an armed arm,
embowed, grasping a broken tilting spear.

No general collection of Yorkshire genealogies has been published.
Information as to the pedigrees of Yorkshire families must be sought for in
the well-known topographical works of Thoresby Whitaker, Hunter, &c., or in
the MS. collections of Torre, Hopkinson, &c.

In the _Monasticon Eboracense_, by John Burton M.D., fol., York, 1778,
under the head of "Eschewolde, Essold, Esscholt, or Esholt, in Ayredale in
the Deanry of the Ainsty," at pp. 139. and 140., your correspondent JAYTEE
will find that the site of this priory was granted, 1 Edward VI., 1547, to
Henry Thompson, one of the king's _gens d'armes_, at Boleyn; who, by Helen,
daughter of Laurence Townley, had a natural son called William, living in
1585 who, assuming his father's surname, and marrying Dorothy, daughter of
Christopher Anderson of Lostock in com. Lanc. prothonotary became the
ancestor of those families of the Thompsons now living in and near York. He
may see also Burke's _Landed Gentry_, article "Say of Tilney, co. Norfolk,"
in the supplement.

_Minar's Books of Antiquities_ (Vol. i., p. 277.).--A.N. inquires who is
intended by Cusa in his book _De Docta Ignorantia_, cap. vii., where he
quotes "Minar in his _Books of Antiquities_." Upon looking into the passage
referred to, I remembered the following observation by a learned writer now
living, which will doubtless guide your correspondent to the author
intended:--

    "On the subject of the imperfect views concerning the Deity,
    entertained by the ancient philosophical sects, I would especially
    refer to that most able and elaborate investigation of them, Meiner's
    very interesting tract, _De Vero Deo._"--(An Elementary Course of
    Theological Lectures, delivered in Bristol College, 1831-1833, by the
    Rev. W.D. Conybeare, now the Very Rev. the Dean of Llandaff. )

A.N. will not be surprised at Cusa Using the term "antiquitates" instead of
"De Vero Deo," if he will compare his expressions on the same subject in
his book _De Venatione Sapientiæ_, e.g.:--

    "Vides nunc æternum illud _antiquissimum_ in eo campo (scilicet non
    aliud) dulcissima venatione quæri posse. Attingis enim _antiquissimum_
    trinum et unum."--Cap. xiv.

T.J.

_Smoke Money_ (Vol. ii., pp. 120. 174.).--Sir Roger Twisden (_Historical
Vindication of the Church of England_, chap. iv. p. 77.) observes--

    "King Henry, 153¾, took them (Peter's pence) so absolutely away, as
    though Queen Mary repealed that Act, and Paulus Quartus dealt earnestly
    with her agents in Rome for restoring the use of them, yet I cannot
    find that they were ever gathered and sent thither during her time but
    where some monasteries did answer them to the Pope, and did therefore
    collect the tax, that in process of time became, as by custom, paid to
    that house which being after derived to the crown, and from thence, by
    grant, to others, with as ample {345} profits as the religious persons
    did possess them, I conceive they are to this day paid as an appendant
    to the said manors, by the name of _Smoke Money_.

J.B.

_Smoke Money_ (Vol. ii., pp. 120, 269.).--I do not know whether any
additional information on _smoke money_ is required but the following
extracts may be interesting to your Querist:--

    "At this daie the Bp. of Elie hath out of everie parish in
    Cambridgeshire a certeine tribute called Elie Farthings, or _Smoke
    Farthings_, which the church-wardens do levie, according to the number
    of houses or else of chimneys that be in a parish."--MSS, Baker, xxix.
    326.

The date of this impost is given in the next extract:--

    "By the records of the Church of Elie, it appears that in the year
    1154, every person who kept a fire in the several parishes within that
    diocese was obliged to pay one farthing yearly to the altar of S.
    Peter, in the same cathedral."--MSS. Bowtell, Downing Coll. Library.

This tax was paid in 1516, but how much later I cannot say.

The readers of Macaulay will be familiar with the term "heart-money"
(_History_, vol. i. p. 283.), and the amusing illustrations he produces,
from the ballads of the day, of the extreme unpopularity of the tax on
chimneys, and the hatred in which the "chimney man" was held (i. 287.) but
this was a different impost frown that spoken of above, and paid to the
king, not to the cathedral. It was collected for the last time in 1690,
having been first levied in 1653, when, Hume tells us, the king's debts had
become so--

    "Intolerable, that the Commons were constrained to vote him an
    extraordinary supply of 1,200,000l., to be levied by eighteen months'
    assessment, and finding upon enquiry that the several branches of the
    revenue fell much short of the sums they expected, they at last, after
    much delay, voted _a new imposition of 2s. on each hearth_, and this
    tax they settled on the king during his life."

The Rev. Giles Moore, Rector of Horstead Keynes, Sussex, notes in his
_Diary_ (published by the Sussex Archæological Society),--

    August 18, 1663.--I payed fore 1 half yeares earth-money 3s.

Other notices of this payment may be supplied by other correspondents.

E. VENABLES.

_Holland Land_ (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--Holland means _hole_ or _hollow
land_--land lower than the level of contiguous water, and protected by
_dykes_. So _Holland_, one of the United Provinces; so _Holland_, the
southern division of Lincolnshire.

C.

_Caconac, Caconacquerie_ (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--This is a misprint of yours,
or a misspelling of your correspondents. The word is _cacouac,
cacouacquerie_. It was a cant word used by Voltaire and his correspondents
to signify an _unbeliever_ in Christianity, and was, I think, borrowed from
the name of some Indian tribe supposed to be in a natural state of freedom
and exemption from prejudice.

C.

_Discourse of National Excellencies of England_ (Vol. ii., p. 248.).--_A
Discourse of the National Excellencies of England_ was not written by Sir
Rob. Howard, but by RICHARD HAWKINS, Whose name appears at length in the
title-page to some copies; others have the initials only.

P.B.

_Saffron Bags_ (Vol. ii., p. 217.).--In almost all old works on Materia
Medica the use of these bags is mentioned. Quincy, in his _Dispensatory_,
1730, p. 179., says:--

    "Some prescribe it (saffron) to be worn with camphire in a bag at the
    pit of the stomach for _melancholy_; and others affirm that, so used,
    it will cure agues."

Ray observes (_Cat. Plant. Angl._, 1777, p. 84.):

    "Itemque in sacculo suspenditur sub mento vel gutture ad dissipandam
    sc. materiam putridam et venenatam, ne ibidem stagnans, inflammationen
    excitet, ægrotumque strangulet."

The origin of the "saffron bag", is probably to be explained by the strong
aromatic odour of saffron, and the high esteem in which it was once held as
a medicine; though now it is used chiefly as a colouring ingredient and by
certain elderly ladies, with antiquated notions, as a specific for
"striking out" the measles in their grandchildren.

[Hebrew: t. a.]

_Milton's "Penseroso"_ (Vol. ii, p. 153.).--H.A.B. desires to understand
the couplet--

  "And love the high embower'd roof,
  With antique pillars massy proof."

He is puzzled whether to consider "proof" an adjective belonging to
"pillars," or a substantive in apposition with it. All the commentators
seem to have passed the line without observation. I am almost afraid to
suggest that we should read "pillars'" in the genitive plural, "proof"
being taken in the sense of _established strength_.

Before dismissing this conjecture, I have taken the pains to examine every
one of the twenty-four other passages in which Milton has used the word
"proof." I find that it occurs only four times as an adjective in all of
which it is followed by something dependent upon it. In three of than thus:

      "---- not proof
  Against temptation."--_Par. L._ ix. 298.

  "---- proof 'gainst all assaults."--_Ib._ x. 88.

  "Proof against all temptation."--_Par. R._ iv. 533.

In the fourth, which is a little different, thus:

      "---- left some part
  Not proof enough such object to sustain."
          _Par. L._ viii. 5S5.

{346} As Milton, therefore, has in no other place used "proof" as an
adjective without something attached to it, I feel assured that he did not
use it as an adjective in the passage in question.

J.S.W.

Stockwell, Sept. 7.

_Achilles and the Tortoise_ (Vol. ii., p. l54.).--[Greek: Idiôtês] will
find the paradox of "Achilles and the Tortoise" explained by Mr. Mansel of
St. John's College, Oxon, in a note to his late edition of Aldrich's
_Logic_ (1849, p. 125.). He there shows that the fallacy is a material one:
being a false assumption of the major premise, viz., that the sum of an
infinite series is itself always infinite (whereas it may be finite).
Mansel refers to Plato, _Parmenid._ p. 128. [when will editors learn to
specify the editions which they use?] Aristot. _Soph. Eleuctr._ 10. 2. 33.
4., and Cousin, _Nouveaux Fragments, Zénon d'Elée._

T.E.L.L.

_Stepony Ale_ (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--The extract from Chamberlayne certainly
refers to ale brewed at _Stepney._ In Playford's curious collection of old
popular tunes, the _English Dancing Master_, 1721, is one called "Stepney
Ale and Cakes;" and in the works of Tom Brown and Ned Ward, other allusions
to the same are to be found.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_North Side of Churchyards_ (Vol. ii., p. 253.).--In reference to the north
region being "the devoted region of Satan and his hosts," Milton seems to
have recognised the doctrine when he says--

          "At last,
  Far in the horizon to the north appear'd
  From skirt to skirt a fiery region, stretched
  In battailous aspect, and nearer view
  Bristled with upright beams innumerable
  Of rigid spears, and helmets throng'd, and shields
  Various, with boastful argument pourtray'd,
  The banded powers of Satan hasting on
  With furious expedition."--Book vi.

F.E.

_Welsh Money_ (Vol. ii., p. 231.).--It is not known that the Welsh princes
ever coined any money: none such has ever been discovered. If they ever
coined any, it is almost impossible that it should all have disappeared.

GRIFFIN.

_Wormwood_ (Vol. ii., pp. 249. 315.).--The French gourmands have two sorts
of liqueur flavoured with wormwood; Crême d'Absinthe, and Vermouthe. In the
_Almanac des Gourmands_ there is a pretty account of the latter, called the
_coup d'après._ In the south of France, I think, they say it is the fashion
to have a glass brought in towards the end of the repast by girls to refit
the stomach.

C.B.

_Puzzling Epitaph_ (Vol. ii., p. 311.).--J. BDN has, I think, not given
this epitaph quite correctly. The following is as it appeared in the
_Times_, 20th Sept., 1828 (copied from the _Mirror_). It is stated to be in
a churchyard in Germany:--

   "O     quid   tua    te
    be    bis    bia    abit
       ra     ra     ra
              es
           et     in
      ram     ram     ram
             i   i
    Mox eris quod  ego  nunc."
The reading is--

"O superbe quid superbis? tua superbia te superabit. Terra es et in terram
ibis. Mox eris quod ego nunc."

E.B. PRICE.

October 14. 1850.

    [The first two lines of this epitaph, and many similar specimens of
    learned trifling, will be found in _Les Bigarrures et Touches de
    Seigneur des Accords,_ cap. iii., _autre Façons de Rebus_, p. 35., ed.
    1662.]

_Umbrella_ (Vol. ii., pp. 25. 93.).--In the collection of pictures at
Woburn Abbey is a full-length portrait of the beautiful Duchess of Bedford,
who afterwards married the Earl of Jersey, painted about the year 1730. She
is represented as attended by a black servant, who holds an open umbrella
to shade her.

Cowper's "Task," published in 1784, twice mentions the umbrella:

  "We bear our shades about us; self-deprived
  Of other screen, the thin umbrella spread,
  And range an Indian waste without a tree."
          Book i.

In book iv., the description of the country girl, who dresses above her
condition, concludes with the following lines--

  "Expect her soon with footboy at her heels,
  No longer blushing for her awkward load,
  Her train and her umbrella all her care."

In both these passages of Cowper, the umbrella appears to be equivalent to
what would now be called a parasol.

L.

_Pope and Bishop Burgess_ (Vol. ii., p. 310.).--The allusion is to the
passage in _Troilus and Cressida_:

  "The dreadful sagitary appals our numbers."

which Theobald explained from Caxton, but Pope did not understand.

C.B.

    [Not the only passage in Shakspeare which Theobald explained and Pope
    did not understand; but more of this hereafter.]

_Book of Homilies_ (Vol. ii., p. 89.).--Allow me to inform B. that the
early edition of Homilies {347} referred to in his Query was compiled by
Richard Taverner, and consists of a series of "postils" on the epistles and
gospels throughout the year. It appears to have been first printed in 1540
(_Ames_, i. 407.), and was republished in 1841, under the editorial care of
Dr. Cardwell.

C.H.

St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.

_Roman Catholic Theology_ (Vol. ii., p. 279.).--I beg to refer M.Y.A.H. to
the _Church History of England_ by Hugh Tootle, better known by his
pseudonyme of Charles Dod (3 vols. folio, Brussels, 1737-42). A very
valuable edition of this important work was commenced by the Rev. M.A.
Tierney; but as the last volume (the fifth) was published so long ago as
1843, and no symptom of any other appears, I presume that this extremely
curious book has, for some reason or other, been abandoned. Perhaps the
well-known jealousy of the censor may have interfered.

A useful manual of Catholic bibliography exists in the _Thesaurus Librorum
Rei Catholicæ_, 8vo. Würzburg, 1850.

G.R.

_Modum Promissionis_ (Vol. ii., p. 279.).--Without the context of the
passage adduced by C.W.B., it is impossible to speak positively as to its
precise signification. I think, however, the phrase is equivalent to
"formula professionis monasticæ." _Promissio_ frequently occurs in this
sense, as may be seen by referring to Ducange (s.v.).

C.H.

_Bacon Family_ (Vol. ii., p. 247.).--The name of Bacon has been considered
to be of Norman origin, arising from some fief so called.--See _Roman de
Rose_, vol. ii. p. 269.

X.P.M.

_Execution of Charles I. and Earl of Stair_ (Vol. ii., pp. 72. 140.
158.).--MATFELONENSIS speaks too fast when he says that "no mention occurs
of the Earl of Stair." I distinctly recollect reading in an old life of the
Earl of Stair an account of his having been sent for to visit a mysterious
person of extreme old age, who stated that he was the earl's ancestor
(grandfather or great-grandfather, but whether paternal or not I do not
remember), and that he had been the executioner of Charles I.

T.N.

    [The story to which our correspondent alludes is, probably, that quoted
    in Cecil's (Hone's) _Sixty Curious and Authentic Narratives_, pp.
    138-140., from the _Recreations of a Man of Feeling_. The peerage and
    the pedigree of the Stair family alike prove that there is little
    foundation for this ingenious fiction.]

_Water-marks on Writing-paper_ (Vol. ii., p. 310.).--On this subject C.,
will, I think, find all the information he seeks in a paper published in
the _Aldine Magazine_, (Masters, Aldersgate-st., 1839). This paper is
accompanied by engravings of the ancient water-marks, as well as those of
more modern times, and enters somewhat largely into the question of how far
water-marks may be considered as evidence of precise dates. They are not
always to be relied upon, for in December, 1850, there will doubtless be
thousands of reams of paper issued and in circulation, bearing the date of
1851, unless the practice is altered of late years. Timperley's
_Biographical, Chronological, and Historical Dictionary_ is much quoted on
the subject of "Water-marks."

E.B. PRICE.

_St. John Nepomuc_ (Vol. ii., pp. 209. 317.).--The statues in honour of
this Saint must be familiar to every one who has visited Bohemia, as also
the spot of his martyrdom at Prague, indicated by some brass stars let into
the parapet of the _Steinerne Brücke_, on the right-hand side going from
Prague to the suburb called the _Kleinseite_. As the story goes, he was
offered the most costly bribes by _Wenzel_, king of Bohemia, to betray his
trust, and after his repeated refusal was put to the torture, and then
thrown into the Moldau, where he was drowned. The body of the saint was
embalmed, and is now preserved in a costly silver shrine of almost fabulous
worth, in the church of St. Veit, in the Kleinseite. In Weber's _Briefe
eines durch Deutschland reisende Deutschen_, the weight silver about this
shrine is said to be twenty "centener."

C.D. LAMONT.

_Satirical Medals_ (Vol. ii., p. 298.).--A descriptive catalogue of British
medals is preparing for the press, wherein all the satirical medals
relating to the Revolution of 1688 will be minutely described and
explained.

G.H.

_Passage in Gray_ (Vol. i., p. 150.).--I see no difficulty in the passage
about which your correspondent; A GRAYAN inquires. The _abode_ of the
merits and frailties of the dead, _i.e._ the place in which they are
treasured up until the Judgment, is the Divine mind. This the poet, by a
very allowable figure, calls "Bosom." Homer's expression is somewhat
analogous.

  [Greek: "Tade panta theion en gounasi keitai."]

E.C.H.

_Cupid Crying_ (Vol. i., pp. 172. 308.).--Another translation of the
English verses, p. 172., which English are far superior to the Latin
original:--

  "Perchi ferisce Venere
    Il filio suo che geme?
    Diede il fanciullo a Celia
    Le freccie e l'arco insieme.

  Sarebbe mai possibile!
    Ei nol voluto avea;
    Ma rise Celia; ei subito
    La Madre esser credea."

E.C.H. {348}

_Anecdote of a Peal of Bells_ (Vol. i., p. 382.).--It is related of the
bells of Limerick Cathedral by Mrs. S.C. Hall (_Ireland_, vol. i., p. 328.
note).

M.

    [Another correspondent, under the same signature, forwards the legend
    as follows

    "THOSE EVENING BELLS."

    "The remarkably fine bells of Limerick Cathedral were originally
    brought from Italy. They had been manufactured by a young native (whose
    name tradition has not preserved), and finished after the toil of many
    years; and he prided himself upon his work. They were subsequently
    purchased by a prior of a neighbouring convent, and, with the profits
    of this sale, the young Italian procured a little villa, where he had
    the pleasure of hearing the tolling of his bells from the convent
    cliff, and of growing old in the bosom of domestic happiness. This,
    however, was not to continue. In some of those broils, whether civil or
    foreign, which are the undying worm in the peace of a fallen land, the
    good Italian was a sufferer amongst many. He lost his all; and after
    the passing of the storm, he found himself preserved alone, amid the
    wreck of fortune, friends, family, and home. The convent in which the
    bells, the chef-d'oeuvre of his skill, were hung, was rased to the
    earth, and these last carried away to another land. The unfortunate
    owner, haunted by his memories and deserted by his hopes, became a
    wanderer over Europe. His hair grew gray, and his heart withered,
    before he again found a home and friend. In this desolation of spirit
    he formed the resolution of seeking the place to which those treasures
    of his memory had finally been borne. He sailed for Ireland, proceeded
    up the Shannon; the vessel anchored in the pool near Limerick, and he
    hired a small boat for the purpose of landing. The city was now before
    him; and he beheld St. Mary's steeple lifting its turreted head above
    the smoke and mist of the old town. He sat in the stern, and looked
    fondly towards it. It was an evening so calm and beautiful as to remind
    him of his own native haven in the sweetest time of the year--the death
    of spring. The broad stream appeared like one smooth mirror, and the
    little vessel glided through it with almost a noiseless expedition. On
    a sudden, amid the general stillness, the bells tolled from the
    cathedral; the rowers rested on their oars, and the vessel went forward
    with the impulse it had received. The old Italian looked towards the
    city, crossed his arms on his breast, and lay back on his seat; home,
    happiness, early recollections, friends, family--all were in the sound,
    and went with it to his heart. When the rowers looked round, they
    beheld him with his face still turned towards the cathedral, but his
    eyes were closed, and when they landed they found him cold in death."

    MR. H. EDWARDS informs us it appeared in an early number of _Chambers'
    Journal._ J.G.A.P. kindly refers us to the _Dublin Penny Journal_, vol.
    i. p. 48., where the story is also told; and to a poetical version of
    it, entitled "The Bell-founder," first printed in the _Dublin
    University Magazine_, and since in the collected poems of the author,
    D. H. McCarthy.]

_Codex Flateyensis_ (Vol. ii., p. 278.).--Your correspondent W.H.F., when
referring to the _Orkneyinga Saga_, requests information regarding the
_Codex Flateyensis_, in which is contained one of the best MSS. of the Saga
above mentioned. W.H.F. labours under the misapprehension of regarding the
_Codex Flateyensis_ as a mere manuscript of the Orkneyinga Saga, whereas
that Saga constitutes but a very small part of the magnificent volume. The
_Codex Flateyensis_ takes its name, as W.H.F. rightly concludes, from the
island of Flatey in the Breidafiord in Iceland, where it was long
preserved. It is a parchment volume most beautifully executed, the initial
letters of the chapters being finely illuminated, and extending in many
instances, as in a fac-simile now before me, from top to bottom of the
folio page. The contents of the volume may be learned from the following
lines on the first page; I give it in English as the original is in
Icelandic:--

