Day after day I lay on my counter unnoticed, except by the shopwoman who
covered us up at night, and re-arranged us in the morning; and even this
she did with such an indifferent air, that I could not flatter myself I
was of the smallest use to _her_. Every necessary care was bestowed upon
me in common with my companions; but I sighed for the tender attentions
that I sometimes saw lavished by children upon their dolls, and wished
that my mistress would nurse and caress me in the same manner.

She never seemed to think of such a thing. She once said I was dusty,
and whisked a brush over my face; but that was the only separate mark of
interest I ever received from her. I had no reasonable ground of
complaint, but I began to grow weary of the insipidity of my life, and
to ask myself whether this could be my only destiny. Was I never to be
of use to any body? From time to time other toys were carried away. Many
a giddy top and lively ball left my side in childish company, and
disappeared through those mysterious gates by which the busy human race
entered our calm seclusion.

At last even dolls had their day. The beautiful waxen princess no longer
graced our dominions. She was bought by an elderly lady for a birthday
present to a little grand-daughter; and on the very same day the 'old
familiar faces' of six dolls who had long shared my counter vanished
from my sight, one after another being bought and carried away.

I was sorry to lose them, though while we lived together we had had our
little miffs and jealousies. I had sometimes thought that the one with
the red shoes was always sticking out her toes; that she of the flaxen
ringlets was ready to let every breath of wind blow them over her
neighbours' faces; that another with long legs took up more room than
her share, much to my inconvenience. But now that they were all gone,
and I never could hope to see them again, I would gladly have squeezed
myself into as small compass as the baby doll in the walnut-shell, in
order to make room for them once more.

One thing, however, was satisfactory: dolls certainly had their use.
Seven had been bought, and therefore why not an eighth? I had been
sinking almost into a state of despondency, but now my hopes revived and
my spirits rose. My turn might come.

And my turn did come. Every circumstance of that eventful day is deeply
impressed on my memory. I was as usual employed in making remarks upon
the passing crowd, and wondering what might be the use of every body I
saw, when I perceived the lady and the little girl who had been almost
my first acquaintances among the human race. As they approached my
stall, I heard the mama say, 'Have you decided what to buy with the
sixpence?'

'Oh yes, quite,' answered the child; 'I am going to buy a _sixpenny
doll_.'

The words thrilled through me; her eyes seemed fixed on mine, and the
sixpence was between her fingers. I imagined myself bought. But she
continued: 'I think, if you don't mind the trouble, I should like to go
round the bazaar first, to see which are the prettiest.'

'By all means,' replied the lady; and they walked on, carrying all my
hopes with them.

I had often fancied myself the prettiest doll of my size in the place;
but such conceit would not support me now. I felt that there were
dozens, nay scores, who more than equalled me; and all discontented
notions of my neglected merit now sunk before the dread that I had
really no merit to neglect.

I began also to have some idea of what was meant by time. My past life
had glided away so imperceptibly, that I did not know whether it had
been long or short; but I learnt to count every moment while those two
mortals were walking round the bazaar.

I strained my eyes to catch sight of them again; but when at last they
re-appeared, I scarcely dared to look, for fear of seeing a doll in the
child's hands. But no; her hands were empty, except for the sixpence
still between her finger and thumb.

They came nearer--they stopped at another stall; I could not hear what
they said, but they turned away, and once more stood opposite to me. The
child remained for some moments as silent as myself, and then exclaimed,
'After all, Mama, I don't think there are any prettier dolls than these
in the whole room.'

'What do you say to this one, Miss?' said our proprietor, taking up a
great full-dressed Dutch doll, and laying her on the top of those of my
size and class, completely hiding the poor little victims under her
stiff muslin and broad ribbons.

But on the child's answering, 'No, thank you, I only want a sixpenny
doll not dressed,' the Dutch giantess was removed, and we once more
asserted our humble claims.

'That seems to me a very pretty one,' said the mama, pointing to my next
neighbour. The child for a moment hesitated, but presently exclaimed in
a joyful tone, 'Oh no, _this_ is the beauty of all; this little darling
with the real hair and blue ribbon in it; I will take this one, if you
please.' And before I could be sure that she meant me, I was removed
from my place, wrapped up in paper, and consigned to her hands. My
long-cherished wishes were fulfilled, and I was bought. At first I could
scarcely believe it. Notwithstanding all my planning and looking
forward to this event, now that it really happened, I could not
understand it. My senses seemed gone. What had so long occupied my mind
was the work of a moment; but that moment was irrevocable, and my fate
was decided. In my little mistress' hands I passed the boundaries of the
world of toys, and entered upon a new state of existence.


CHAPTER II.


A very different life now opened before me. I had no longer any pretence
for complaining of neglect. My young mistress devoted every spare moment
to the enjoyment of my company, and set no limits to her caresses and
compliments; while I in return regarded her with all the gratitude and
affection which a doll can feel. My faculties as well as my feelings
were called into fresh exercise; for though I had no longer the wide
range of observation afforded by the daily crowd of strangers in the
bazaar, I had the new advantage of making intimate acquaintance with a
small circle of friends.

Having hitherto been so completely without any position in the world, I
could not at first help feeling rather shy at the idea of taking my
place as member of a family; and it was therefore a relief to find that
my lot was not cast amongst total strangers, but that I had already some
slight clue to the characters of my future companions.

My mistress, whose name was Rose, was sister to the Willy for whom she
had bought the paint-box, and also to Edward, the purchaser of the
tools. Geoffrey, the lover of tarts, was a cousin on a visit to them for
the holidays; and they had also an elder sister named Margaret; besides
their papa and mama, whom I had seen in the bazaar.

The first of the family to whom I was introduced was Willy, and I soon
became much interested in him. He was a pale thin boy, who spent the day
on a sofa, to and from which he was carried in the morning and at night.
In fine weather he went out in a wheel-chair; but he was unable to move,
without help, and was obliged to endure many privations. Though he often
looked suffering and weary, he was cheerful and patient, and always
seemed pleased to hear other children describe enjoyments in which he
could not share. Every body was fond of Willy, and anxious to amuse and
comfort him. All that happened out of doors was told to him; all the
kindest friends and pleasantest visitors came to see him; the new books
were brought to him to read first; the best fruit and flowers always set
apart for him; and all the in-door occupations arranged as much as
possible with a view to his convenience. He and his little sister Rose
were the dearest friends in the world, and certain to take part in
whatever interested each other. As soon as Rose brought me home from the
Pantheon, she ran up stairs with me to Willy, whom I then saw for the
first time, sitting on the sofa with his feet up, and a table before
him, on which stood several books, and my old acquaintances the
paint-box and the chest of tools.

'Look at this, Willy; is not this pretty?' exclaimed Rose, laying me
down on his open book.

Willy looked up with a pleasant smile: 'Very pretty,' he answered. 'I
suppose she is to be the lady of the new house; and with Ned's tools, I
hope to make some furniture worth her acceptance.'

'Oh, thank you, Willy dear. And will you help me to choose a name for
her? What do you think the prettiest name you know?'

'_Rose_,' answered Willy, laughing; 'but I suppose that will not do. I
dare say you want something very fine and out-of-the-way.'

'As fine as can be,' replied Rose; 'I have been thinking of Seraphina or
Wilhelmina: which do you like best?'

'Call it Molly,' cried Edward, who just then entered the room; 'Molly
and Betty are the best names: no nonsense in them.'

'Call it Stupid Donkey,' mumbled a voice behind him; and Geoffrey
advanced, his mouth as usual full of something besides words. 'Have any
nuts, Willy?' he asked, holding out a handful.

'No, thank you,' answered Willy; 'I must not eat them.'

'I wouldn't be you, I know,' said Geoffrey, cracking one between his
teeth; 'never let to eat any thing but what's wholesome, and always
reading, or doing something stupid. I believe you are helping Rose to
play with that doll now. Put it into the fire; that is the way to treat
dolls. Stupid things. I hate 'em!'

'Pray do not touch it, Geoffrey,' said Rose.

'Leave it alone, Geff,' said Edward. 'You have your things, and Rose has
hers. I don't see the fun of dolls myself, but she does, and nobody
shall interfere with her while I am here to protect her. Just remember
that, will you?'

'The d-o-ll!' said Geoffrey, drawling the word, and making a face as if
the pronouncing it turned him quite sick. 'Oh, the sweet doll! Perhaps
you would like to stay and play with Rose, and Willy, and the d-o-ll,
instead of coming out to cricket.'

'Nonsense, you foolish fellow, you know better,' answered Edward. 'But I
won't have Rose bullied; and what's more, I won't have Willy quizzed. I
should like to see you or me pass such an examination as Willy could if
he were at school. Why, he can learn as much in a day as we do in a
week.'

'Well, he is welcome to learn as much as he likes,' said Geoffrey; 'and
let's you and I go and play. What stupid nuts these are! I've almost
cracked one of my teeth with cracking them.'

The boys ran off; and presently there came into the room the papa and
mama, whom I already knew, and a young lady very like Rose, but older. I
found she was Margaret, the eldest sister. They inquired whether Willy
wanted any thing before they went out; and Margaret fetched a drawing
that he wished to copy, while his father and mother wheeled his sofa and
table nearer the window, that he might have more light. When he was made
quite comfortable, they told Rose that she might stay and take care of
him till they returned; and she said she would bring her box of scraps
and begin dressing me. Then I came in for my share of notice, and had
every reason to be satisfied with the praises bestowed on me. The mama
said that I deserved very neatly-made clothes; the papa, that my hair
would be a pattern for Margaret's; and Margaret said I was charming, and
that she would make me a pink satin gown.

They admired the name _Seraphina_, though the papa suggested various
others which he thought might suit Rose's taste,--Sophonisba, Cleopatra,
Araminta, Dulcinea, Ethelinda, &c.; but as she remained steady to her
first choice, the LADY SERAPHINA was decided to be thenceforth my name
and title.

And now began the real business of my life. I was no longer doomed to
fret at being of no use, for the object of my existence was plain
enough, namely, to give innocent recreation to my young mistress when
at leisure from her more serious employments. Every day she spent some
hours in study with her mother or sister; and she would fly to me for
relief between her lessons, and return to them with more vigor after
passing a little time in my refreshing company. She often showed her
tasks to me, and discussed their difficulties. I think she repeated the
multiplication-table to me nearly a hundred times, while I sat on the
_Tutor's Assistant_ waiting for the recurrence of the fatal words,
'Seven times nine.' Day after day she could get no farther; but as soon
as she came to 'Seven times nine,' I was turned off the book, which had
to be consulted for the answer.

At last, one day she came running into the room in great glee,
exclaiming, 'I have done the multiplication-table. I have said it quite
right, sixty-three and all. I made no mistake even in dodging. And _you_
helped me, my darling Lady Seraphina. I never could have learned it
perfect if you had not heard me say it so often. And now, look at your
rewards. Margaret has made you a bonnet, and Willy has made you an
arm-chair.'

Beautiful, indeed, was the bonnet, and commodious the arm-chair; and I
wore the one and reclined in the other all the time Rose was learning
the French auxiliary verbs _être_ and _avoir_. I flattered myself I was
of as much use in them as in the multiplication-table; but I do not
recollect receiving any particular recompense. Indeed, after a little
time, it would have been difficult to know what to give me, for I
possessed every thing that a doll's heart could wish, or her head
imagine. Such a variety of elegant dresses as Rose made for me would
have been the envy of all my old friends in the bazaar. I had gowns of
pink satin and white satin; blue silk and yellow silk; colored muslins
without number, and splendid white lace. Bonnets enough to furnish a
milliner's shop were mine; but I was not so partial to them as to my
gowns, because they tumbled my hair.

I believe a good many of my possessions were presents from Margaret to
Rose on account of perfect lessons; but in course of time, I ceased to
superintend Rose's studies. Margaret said that I interrupted the course
of history; and the mama said that Rose was old enough to learn her
lessons without bringing her play into them, and that I must be put away
during school hours.

Though I did not think that the fault was altogether mine, I quite
acquiesced in the wisdom of this decree; for during Rose's last
reading-lesson she had stopped so often to ask me which I liked best,
Lycurgus or Solon, Pericles or Alcibiades, &c., that Margaret was almost
out of patience. And though I made no answer, and had really no choice
at all between the characters, I felt that I rather hindered business.

I was therefore now left to myself for several hours in the morning; but
I found ample and pleasant employment in surveying the comforts and
beauties of my habitation. For I was not forced to perform the part of
an insignificant pigmy in the vast abodes of the colossal race of man: I
possessed a beautiful little house proportioned to my size, pleasantly
situated on a table in the furthest corner of the schoolroom, and
commanding an extensive view of the whole apartment.

I must describe my house at full length. It had been originally, as I
heard, a mere rough packing-case; but what of that? The best brick house
in London was once but clay in the fields; and my packing-case was now
painted outside and papered inside, and fitted up in a manner every way
suitable for the occupation of a doll of distinction.

My drawing-room was charming; light and cheerful, the walls papered with
white and gold, and the floor covered with a drab carpet worked with
flowers of every hue. Rose worked the carpet herself under the
directions of Margaret, who prevailed on her to learn worsted-work for
my sake. So there, again, how useful I was! From the ceiling hung a
brilliant glass chandelier, a birthday present from Edward to Rose; and
the mantel-piece was adorned by a splendid mirror cut out of a broken
looking-glass by Willy, and framed by his hands. I cannot say that Willy
ever seemed to care for me personally, but he took considerable interest
in my upholstery, and much of my handsomest furniture was manufactured
by him. He made my dining-room and drawing-room tables; the frames of my
chairs, which were covered with silk by Margaret; my sofa, and my
four-post bedstead; and it was he who painted the floor-cloth in my
hall, and the capital picture of the Queen and Prince Albert which hung
over the dining-room chimney-piece. I had a snug bed-room, containing a
bed with pink curtains, a toilette-table, with a handsome looking-glass,
pincushion, and rather large brush and comb; a washing-stand,
towel-horse, chest of drawers, and wardrobe. But the last two, I must
confess, were rather for show than for use. They were French-polished,
and in appearance convenient as well as handsome, but in reality too
small to hold my clothes. A few minor articles of dress were kept in
them; but the mass of my gorgeous attire was always in larger boxes and
trunks belonging to my mistress; her work-box, for instance, and at one
time her desk; but her mama turned all my gowns out of the latter when
she banished me from the lessons, and desired that, for the future, only
writing materials should be kept in it. 'Every thing in its proper
place, Rose,' I heard her say. 'You have plenty of little boxes for
doll's clothes; and your doll ought to teach you to be more tidy instead
of less so.'

My dining-room was well adapted for all the purposes of hospitality,
being furnished with a substantial dining-table, chairs, and a
sideboard, on which there always stood two trays, one filled with
decanters and wine-glasses, and the other with knives and forks.

My kitchen was resplendent with saucepans, kettles, pots and pans, and
plates and dishes, ranged upon the dresser, or hung from the walls. A
joint of meat was always roasting before the fire, and a cook of my own
race appeared to spend her life in basting it, for I never failed to
find her thus employed when Rose was so kind as to take me into my
kitchen. There was also a footman, who sat for ever in the hall; and I
was inclined to consider him rather wanting in respect, till I
discovered that, owing to a broken leg, he was unable to stand. I did
not quite comprehend the use of my servants, as Rose herself did all the
work of my house; but she said they were indispensable, and that if it
were not for want of room, I should have a great many more.

Besides all these arrangements for my comfort in-doors, I possessed a
beautiful open phaeton, emblazoned with the royal arms of England, and
drawn by four piebald horses with long tails, so spirited that they
never left off prancing. Every day, after school-time, Rose brought
this equipage to my door; and the four horses stood with their eight
front feet in the air while I was dressed for my drive. Then, attired in
my last new bonnet and cloak, I sat in state in my carriage, and was
drawn round and round the room by Rose, till she said I was tired. She
made many attempts to persuade the lame footman to stand on the
footboard behind, but she never could manage it. He was a very helpless
creature; and I am not quite certain that he even did his best, little
as that might be. The first time Rose set him up behind the carriage, he
tumbled head over heels into the middle of it, and stood there on his
head till she picked him out again. Then he fell off behind, then on one
side, and then on the other, till she was quite tired of his foolish
tricks, and left him to sit quietly and stupidly in his old place in the
hall.

I lived in great comfort in my pleasant house, and being of a cheerful,
contented temper, never felt lonely, although left to myself during
great part of the day; for Rose was very obedient to her Mama's orders,
and even if now and then tempted to forget the regulation herself, Willy
was always at hand to remind her, and help to fix her attention on her
business. But when it was all over, she flew to me with redoubled
pleasure.

One day she said to me, 'My dear Seraphina, I am afraid you must be very
dull, alone all the morning.' I longed to assure her of the contrary;
but not having the gift of speech, I could only listen submissively
while she continued: 'It is a pity that you should sit doing nothing and
wasting your time; so I have brought you some books, which you are to
read while I am at my lessons; and I shall expect you to learn just as
much as I do.'

So saying, she seated me on my sofa, and placing a table with the books
before me, 'Look,' continued she, 'I have made them for you myself, and
covered them with these pretty red and green papers. This is your
English History, and this is your French Grammar; and here is a
Geography Book, and here is a History of Rome. Now read attentively, and
do not let your thoughts wander; and be very careful not to dogs-ear the
leaves: that always looks like a dunce. And mind you sit upright,' added
she, looking back, as she left the room in obedience to a summons from
her sister.

I obeyed to the best of my power. To be sure, I did not know which was
geography and which was grammar; and English and Roman history were both
alike to me. But I did as I was bid. I sat upright in the place
appointed me, staring as hard as I could at the open pages; and my worst
enemy could not accuse me of dogs-earing a single leaf.

When my mistress returned, she pleased me much by calling me a very good
girl, and saying that if I continued to take so much pains, I could not
fail to improve. On hearing this, Willy laughed, and said he hoped that
that was a duplicate of Margaret's last speech; and Rose looked very
happy, and answered that not only Margaret, but Mama had said the same.

This was not my only duplicate of Rose's adventures. My education
appeared to be conducted precisely on the same plan as her own. Before
long, she brought a little pianoforte and set it up in my drawing-room.
I thought it rather hid the pretty paper, but it was a handsome piece of
furniture.

'Now, Lady Seraphina,' said Rose, 'I am obliged to practise for an hour
every day, and you must do the same. See what a pretty piano I have
given you. You need not mind its being meant for a housewife and
pincushion; the notes are marked, and that is all you want. Now practise
your scales, and be very careful to play right notes and count your
time.'

I sat at my piano with all due diligence, but I am sorry to say that my
progress did not seem satisfactory. One day Rose said that she was sure
I had forgotten to count; and another day, that I hurried the easy bars
and slackened the difficult ones; then she accused me of not caring
whether I played right notes or wrong, and torturing her ear by my false
chords; then I banged the notes till I broke the strings: in short,
there was no end to her complaints, till at last she wound them all up
by declaring that both she and I hated music, and that if Mama and
Margaret would take her advice, we should both leave it off.

But still I practised regularly, and so, I suppose, did Rose; and
gradually her reproaches diminished, and she grew more contented with
me; and we both persevered, till she said that really, after all, I
seemed to have a good ear, and to be likely to make a very respectable
player.

'But you know it all depends upon yourself, Seraphina; your present
improvement is the result of pains and practice. Pains and practice will
do any thing.'

It was fortunate for me that I had so careful a superintendent as Rose;
for unless she had kept a constant watch over me, there is no saying
how many awkward habits I might unconsciously have contracted. But she
cured me of poking my head forward, of standing on one leg, of tilting
my chair, of meddling with things that were not my own, of leaning
against the furniture while I was speaking, of putting my elbows on the
table, of biting my nails, of spilling my tea, and of making crumbs on
the floor.

I cannot say I was myself aware either of the faults or their cure; but
I think one seldom does notice one's own faults, and therefore it is a
great advantage to have kind friends who will point them out to us. I
believed Rose when she told me of mine; so I had a right to believe her
when she gave me the agreeable assurance of their cure, and to indulge
the hope that I was becoming a pleasing, well-bred little doll.

On one mortifying occasion, however, I must own that Rose's anxiety for
my always following in her steps was the cause of a serious injury to
me. She remarked that I had got into a horrid way of kicking off my
shoes while I was learning my poetry; and she thought the best cure
would be to make me wear sandals. I observed that she was sewing sandals
to her own shoes at the time, and she consulted Willy about some means
of doing the same by mine. Willy held me head downwards, and examined my
feet. My shoes were painted, therefore sewing was out of the question.
He advised glue. This was tried, but it came through the thin narrow
ribbon of which my sandals were to be made, and looked very dirty. They
were taken off; but the operation had spoilt the delicacy of my white
stockings, and Rose said it was impossible to let me go such an untidy
figure; we must try some other way. She asked Willy to lend her a
gimlet, that she might bore holes at the sides of my feet, and glue the
ribbon into them, so as not to show the glue. Willy said she was welcome
to the gimlet, but that he advised her to leave it alone, for that she
would only break my feet. But Rose would not be dissuaded, and began
boring.

It was on this occasion that I most peculiarly felt the advantage of
that insensibility to pain which distinguishes my race. What mortal
could have borne such an infliction without struggling and screaming? I,
on the contrary, took it all in good part, and showed no signs of
feeling even at the fatal moment when my foot snapped in two, and Rose,
with a face of utter dismay, held up my own toes before my eyes.

'Oh, my poor Seraphina!' she exclaimed, 'what shall we do?'

'Glue it on again,' said Willy. 'You had better have taken my advice at
first, but now you must make the best of it. Glue is your only friend.'

So Rose glued the halves of my foot together, lamenting over me, and
blaming herself so much all the time, that it seemed rather a comfort to
her when Margaret, coming into the room, agreed with her that she had
been foolish and awkward. Margaret said that ribbon might have been tied
over my feet from the first, without using glue or gimlet either; and
Rose called herself more stupid than ever, for not having thought of
such an easy contrivance.

My foot was glued, and for the purpose of standing, answered as well as
ever; and Rose sewed me up in a pair of blue silk boots, and declared
that I was prettier than before; and my misfortune was soon forgotten by
every body but myself. I, however, could not but feel a misgiving that
this was the first warning of my share in the invariable fate of my
race. For I had already lived long enough to be aware that the existence
of a doll, like that of every thing else, has its limits. Either by
sudden accidents, such as loss of limbs, or by the daily wear and tear
of life, decay gradually makes its progress in us, and we fade away as
surely as the most delicate of the fragile race of mortals.

Though the fracture of my foot was my own first misfortune, I had had
opportunities of remarking the casualties to which dolls are liable. For
it is not to be supposed that our devotion to human beings precludes us
from cultivating the society of our own species. Dolls will be dolls;
and they have a natural sympathy with each other, notwithstanding the
companionship of the race of man. Most little girls are aware of this
fact, and provide suitable society for their dolls. I myself had a large
circle of silent acquaintances, to whom I was introduced by Rose's
kindness and consideration. When other little girls came to drink tea
with her, they often brought their dolls to spend the evening with me;
and among them I had more than once the pleasure of recognising an old
friend from the bazaar.

Then I was in my glory. There was a constant supply of provisions in my
larder; and at a moment's notice Rose would produce an excellent dinner,
all ready cooked, and dished in a beautiful little china dinner-service.
Willy compared her to the genius of Aladdin's lamp; and though I did not
know what that might mean, I quite understood the advantage of being
able to set such a banquet before my friends. I could always command
salmon, a pair of soles, a leg of mutton, a leg of pork, a turkey, a
pair of boiled fowls, a ham, a sucking pig, a hare, a loaf of bread, a
fine Cheshire cheese, several pies, and a great variety of fruit, which
was always ripe and in season, winter or summer. Rose's papa once
observed that his hothouse produced none so fine; for the currants were
as large as apples, and two cherries filled a dish.

Rose and her companions performed the active duties of waiting at table
on these occasions; but the lame footman was generally brought out of
the hall, and propped up against the sideboard, where he stood looking
respectable but awkward.

At these pleasant parties I saw a great range of characters, for Rose's
young visitors were various in their tastes, and their dolls used to be
dressed in every known costume. Besides plenty of pretty English
damsels, I was introduced now to a Turkish sultana, now to a Swiss
peasant; one day to a captain in the British army, another day to an
Indian rajah. One young lady liked to make her dolls personate
celebrated characters; and when she visited us, most distinguished
guests graced my table. I have had the honor of receiving the Queen and
Prince Albert themselves; the Duke of Wellington, Sir Walter Scott, and
Miss Edgeworth, have all dined with me on the same day, and Robinson
Crusoe came in the evening.

But it was at these social meetings that I became most fully aware of
the liability of dolls to loss of limbs. I never remember giving a party
at which the guests could boast of possessing all their legs and arms.
Many an ingenious contrivance hid or supplied the deficiencies, and we
were happy in spite of our losses; still, such was the case: and I saw
that dolls, however beloved and respected, could not last for ever.

For some time after my accident I had no particular adventures. I lived
in peace and plenty, and amused myself with watching the family. They
were all amiable and easy to understand, except Geoffrey; but he was a
complete puzzle to me, and it was long before I could make out why he
was so different from the rest.

The others all seemed to like to help and please one another, but
Geoffrey never seemed happy unless he was making himself disagreeable.
If Willy was interested in a book, he was obliged to sit upon the second
volume, or Geoffrey would be sure to run away with it. If Edward was in
a hurry to go out, Geoffrey would hide his cap, and keep him a quarter
of an hour hunting for it. The girls dared not leave their worsted-work
within his reach for a moment; for he would unravel the canvass, or chop
up the wool, or go on with the work after a pattern of his own
composing, so that they would be obliged to spend half an hour in
unpicking his cobbling.

Margaret remonstrated with him in private, and made excuses for him in
public, and did her best to prevent his tiresome tricks from annoying
Willy; Edward tried rougher means of keeping him in order, which
sometimes succeeded; but still he could find plenty of opportunities of
being a torment: people always can when such is their taste.

One day Margaret was keeping Willy company, while the rest of the party
were gone to the Zoological Gardens. She had brought a drawing to
finish, as he liked to see her draw, and was sometimes useful in
suggesting improvements. But while they were thus employed, Margaret was
summoned to some visitors, and went away, saying that her drawing would
just have time to dry before she returned.

But unfortunately, during her absence, Geoffrey came home. He had grown
tired of the Gardens, which he had seen very often, and rather hungry,
as he generally was; so after amusing himself by eating the cakes he had
bought for the bear, he had nothing more to do, and tried to persuade
his cousins to be tired also. But Edward was making himself agreeable to
the monkeys, Rose was cultivating the friendship of the elephant, and
their Papa and Mama were waiting to see the hippopotamus bathe; so that
Geoffrey's proposals of leaving the Gardens were scouted, and he could
only obtain leave from his uncle to go home by himself.

He entered the room, as usual, with his mouth full, having spent his
last penny in a piece of cocoanut as he came along the streets. While
the cocoanut lasted, he was employed to his satisfaction; but when that
was finished, he was again at a loss for something to do. He tried
walking round the room on one leg, working heel and toe, and that
succeeded very well, and did no harm till he unluckily came to the
drawing-table, when he immediately brought himself to a stand on both
feet.

'Hallo!' cried he, 'here's a daub! Is this your splendid performance,
Will?'

'No,' replied Willy, 'it is Margaret's; and mind you don't touch it by
accident, because it is wet.'

'Touch it by accident!' exclaimed Geoffrey; 'I am going to touch it on
purpose. I wonder Margaret is not ashamed to do it so badly. I'll
improve it for her. How kind of me!'

Poor Willy, in dismay, tried to secure the drawing, but he could not
move from his sofa, and Geoffrey danced round him, holding it at
arm's-length. Then Willy caught at the bell-rope, but his mischievous
cousin snatched it quicker, and tied it up out of his reach. Willy
called all the servants as loud as he could, but no one was within
hearing; and he threw himself back on his sofa, in despair, exclaiming,
'How can you be so ill-natured, when Margaret is always so kind to you?'

'Ill-natured!' answered the other; 'I'm doing her a favor. She admired
the moonlight in the Diorama; now I shall make just such a moon in her
drawing.' And while he spoke, a great yellow moon, like a guinea, rose
in the midst of poor Margaret's brilliant sunset.

'That's the thing,' said Geoffrey; 'and now I shall put the cow jumping
over it, and the little dog laughing to see such sport. Some figures
always improve the foreground.'

'Oh, you have quite spoilt it!' cried Willy. 'How I wish I could stop
you! I cannot imagine how you can like to be so mischievous and
disagreeable. Oh, if Margaret would but come back.'

