PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOLUME 104, MAY 6TH 1893

edited by Sir Francis Burnand


A PATHETIC LAMENT.

    (_Respectfully addressed to one of the Promoters of the
    Anti-Advertisement League by a Repentant Subscriber._)

[Illustration]

  I.

  BEING gifted with decent taste and a sensitive eye,
    I have never been much beguiled
  By advertisements, crude in colour, and ten feet high
    (Which, in fact, I rather reviled);
  And, as for gigantic signs swinging up in the sky--
    They drove me perfectly wild!

  II.

  Then the lurid posters on paling and chimney-stack
    Were the terror of every town--
  Till a League was started by Mr. WILLIAM BLACK
    For the purpose of putting them down;
  And the sympathetic invited its efforts to back
    With an annual half-a-crown.

  III.

  So I cheerfully paid the fee, and my name was enrolled,
    And a solemn oath I swore;
  (As is usual on such occasions,--or so I'm told)
    That, in future, no shop or store
  Which aggressively advertised any article sold
    I would patronise any more!

  IV.

  But that mad rash oath I recall with a vain regret,
    As I brood in bitter complaint,
  On the number of useful things that I'm dying to get--
    And my conscience tells me I mayn't!
  As their various virtues are vaunted in letters of jet,
    Or gaudier gilding and paint!

  V.

  I should like to be clean if I could--but I cannot cope,
    Without saponaceous aid,
  With a shower of London smuts--and I'm losing hope,
    Getting daily a dingier shade,
  In a futile search for a genuine Toilet-soap
    That has shunned meretricious parade!

  VI.

  My villa would be--when it's furnished--the cosiest nest,
    But I fear it is doomed to be bare;
  For upholsterers' puffs are now a persistent pest,
    And so shamelessly each will declare
  His "Elegant Dining and Drawing-room suites" are the "cheapest and best"--
    That I daren't choose so much as a _chair_!

  VII.

  I would fly to the Ocean shore, or the Continent,
    To escape from a lot accurst;
  But here, by my own parole, I'm a prisoner pent!
    I must find a Company first
  That doesn't resort to obtrusive advertisement--
    And the Railway ones are the _worst_!

  VIII.

  And now I'm developing symptoms of bodily ills,
    But, however sanguine I've felt,
  Of a cure from So-and-So's Syrup, Elixir, or Pills,
    Or his Neuro-magnetic Belt--
  Can I buy, when their fame is based on a stratum of bills
    Down every area dealt?

  IX.

  And even my path to a tranquil tomb is barred
    While that oath continues to bind;
  For a coffin and funeral car will be somewhat hard
    For a faithful adherent to find--
  When already each undertaker has left a card
    With his terms and "inquiries kind"!

  X.

  So you see, Mr. WILLIAM BLACK, what a mess I've made!
    And you'll own my dilemmas are due
  To the oath which I took when I followed your precious crusade.
    If its terms were drafted by _you_,
  You may know some ingenious means their effect to evade--
    Kindly drop me a line if you do!


       *       *       *       *       *

  TO BLACKHAM'S BOYS.

    (_The Australian Cricketers have arrived in England._)

  WELCOME, JOHN MCCARTHY BLACKHAM,
  And his boys! 'Tis safe to back 'em,
  GIFFEN, BANNERMAN, and TURNER,
  To teach BULL--a cheerful learner!
  Austral Cricket "up to date."
  BRUCE and TRUMBLE--rather late--
  Owing to Lutetia's charms!
  Soon will join their chums in arms.
  LYONS and M'LEOD are ready;
  Dashing GEORGE and ALEC steady,
  And the others, prompt to pitch 'em
  (Stumps) on the old sward at Mitcham.
  _Punch_ will wish you all fair weather,
  And fair luck! Now, all together!!!
  May we meet 'em oft--and whack 'em
  Fairly--these brave boys of BLACKHAM!

       *       *       *       *       *

