Before she had time to say anything more the young man made a sudden
dive at the dog, caught hold of him and turned and heaved him into the
stream. He fell into a little pool of clear brown water: he spluttered
and paddled there for a second, then he got his footing and scrambled
across the stones up to the opposite bank, where he began shaking the
water from his coat among the long grass.

"Oh, how could you be so disgracefully cruel?" she said, with her face
full of indignation.

"And how could you be so imprudent?"' he said quite as vehemently.
"Why, whose is the dog?"

"I don't know."

"And you catch up some mongrel little cur in the middle of the
highway--He might have been mad."

"I knew he wasn't mad," she said: "it was only a fit; and how could
you be so cruel as to throw him into the river?"

"Oh," said the young man, coolly, "a clash of cold water is the best
thing for a dog that has a fit. Besides, I don't care what he had or
what I did with him, so long as you are safe. Your little finger is of
more consequence than the necks of all the curs in the country."

"Oh, it is mean of you to say that," she retorted warmly. "You have no
pity for those wretched little things that are at every one's mercy.
If it were a handsome and beautiful dog, now, you would care for that,
or if it were a dog that was skilled in getting game for you, you
would care for that."

"Yes, certainly," he said: "these are dogs that have something to
recommend them."

"Yes, and every one is good to them: they are not in need of your
favor. But you don't think of the wretched little brutes that have
nothing to recommend them, that only live on sufferance, that every
one kicks and despises and starves."

"Well," said he with some compunction, "look there! That new friend of
yours--he's no great beauty, you must confess--is all right now. The
bath has cured him. As soon as he's done licking his paws he'll be off
home, wherever that may be. But I've always noticed that about you,
Wenna: you're always on the side of things that are ugly and helpless
and useless in the world; and you're not very just to those who don't
agree with you. For after all, you know, one wants time to acquire
that notion of yours--that it is only weak and ill-favored creatures
that are worthy of the least consideration."

"Yes," she said rather sadly, "you want time to learn that."

He looked at her. Did she mean that her sympathy with those who were
weak and ill-favored arose from some strange consciousness that she
herself was both? His cheeks began to burn red. He had often heard her
hint something like that, and yet he had never dared to reason with
her or show her what he thought of her. Should he do so now?

"Wenna," he said, blushing hotly, "I can't make you out sometimes. You
speak as if no one cared for you. Now, if I were to tell you--"

"Oh, I am not so ungrateful," she said hastily. "I know that two or
three do; and--and, Mr. Trelyon, do you think you could coax that
little dog over the stream again? You see he has come back again--he
can't find his way home."

Mr. Trelyon called to the dog: it came down to the river's side, and
whined and shivered on the brink.

"Do you care a brass farthing about the little beast?" he said to
Wenna.

"I must put him on his way home," she answered.

Thereupon the young man went straight through the stream to the other
side, jumping the deeper portions of the channel: he caught up the dog
and brought it back to her; and when she was very angry with him for
this mad performance, he merely kicked some of the water out of his
trousers and laughed.

Then a smile broke over her face also. "Is that an example of what
people would do for me?" she said shyly. "Mr. Trelyon, you must keep
walking through the warm grass till your feet are dry; or will you
come along to the inn, and I shall get you some shoes and stockings?
Pray do, and at once. I am rather in a hurry."

"I'll go along with you, anyway," he said, "and put this little brute
into the highway. But why are you in a hurry?"

"Because," said Wenna, as they set out to walk down the
valley--"because my mother and I are going to Penzance the day after
to-morrow, and I have a lot of things to get ready."

"To Penzance?" said he with a sudden falling of the face.

"Yes. She has been dreadfully out of sorts lately, and she has sunk
into a kind of despondent state. The doctor says she must have a
change--a holiday, really--to take her away from the cares of the
house--"

"Why, Wenna, it's you who want the holiday--it's you who have the
cares of the house," Trelyon said warmly.

"And so I have persuaded her to go to Penzance for a week or two, and
I go with her to look after her. Mr. Trelyon, would you be kind enough
to keep Rock for me until we come back? I am afraid of the servants
neglecting him."

"You needn't be afraid of that: he's not one of the ill-favored--every
one will attend to him," said Trelyon; and then he added, after a
minute or two of silence, "The fact is, I think I shall be at Penzance
also while you are there. My cousin Juliott is coming here in about a
fortnight to celebrate the important event of my coming of age, and I
promised to go for her. I might as well go now."

She said nothing.

"I might as well go any time," he said rather impatiently. "I haven't
got anything to do. Do you know, before you came along just now, I was
thinking what a very useful person you were in the world, and what
a very useless person I was--about as useless as this little cur. I
think somebody should take me up and heave me into a river. And I was
wondering, too"--here he became a little more embarrassed and slow of
speech--"I was wondering what you would say if I spoke to you, and
gave you a hint that sometimes--that sometimes one might wish to cut
this lazy life if one only knew how, and whether so very busy a person
as yourself mightn't--don't you see?--give one some notion--some sort
of hint, in fact--"

"Oh, but then, Mr. Trelyon," she said quite cheerfully, "you would
think it very strange if I asked you to take any interest in the
things that keep me busy. That is not a man's work. I wouldn't accept
you as a pupil."

He burst out laughing. "Why," said he, "do you think I offered to mend
stockings and set sums on slates and coddle babies?"

"As for setting sums on slates," she remarked with a quiet
impertinence, "the working of them out might be of use to you."

"Yes, and a serious trouble too," he said candidly. "No, no--that
cottage business ain't in my line. I like to have a joke with the
old folks or a romp with the kids, but I can't go in for cutting out
pinafores. I shall leave my mother to do my share of that for me; and
hasn't she come out strong lately, eh? It's quite a new amusement for
her, and it's driven a deal of that organ-grinding and stuff out of
her head; and I've a notion some o' those parsons--"

He stopped short, remembering who his companion was; and at this
moment they came to a gate which opened out on the highway, through
which the small cur was passed to find his way home.

"Now, Miss Wenna," said the young man--"By the way, you see how I
remember to address you respectfully ever since you got sulky with me
about it the other day?"

"I am sure I did not get sulky with you, and especially about that,"
she remarked with much composure. "I suppose you are not aware that
you have dropped the 'Miss' several times this morning already?"

"Did I, really? Well, then, I'm awfully sorry; but then you are so
good-natured you tempt one to forget; and my mother she always calls
you Wenna Rosewarne now in speaking to me, as if you were a little
school-girl, instead of being the chief support and pillar of all the
public affairs of Eglosilyan. And now, Miss Wenna, I sha'n't go down
the road with you, because my damp boots and garments would gather the
dust; but perhaps you wouldn't mind stopping two seconds here, and I'm
going to go a cracker and ask you a question: What should a fellow in
my position try to do? You see, I haven't had the least training for
any one of the professions, even if I had any sort of capacity--"

"But why should you wish to have a profession?" she said simply. "You
have more money than is good for you already."

"Then you don't think it ignominious," he said, with his face lighting
up considerably, "to fish in summer and shoot in autumn and hunt in
winter, and make that the only business of one's life?"

"I should if it were the only business, but it needn't be, and you
don't make it so. My father speaks very highly of the way you look
after your property; and he knows what attending to an estate is. And
then you have so many opportunities of being kind and useful to the
people about you that you might do more good that way than by working
night and day at a profession. Then you owe much to yourself, because
if every one began with himself, and educated himself, and became
satisfied and happy with doing his best, there would be no bad conduct
and wretchedness to call for interference. I don't see why you should
be ashamed of shooting and hunting and all that, and doing them as
well as anybody else, or far better, as I hear people say. I don't
think a man is bound to have ambition and try to become famous: you
might be of much greater use in the world, even in such a little
place as Eglosilyan, than if you were in Parliament. I did say to Mrs.
Trelyon that I should like to see you in Parliament, because one has
a natural pride in any person one admires and likes very much, and one
wishes--"

He saw the quick look of fear that sprang to her eyes--not a sudden
appearance of shy embarrassment, but of absolute fear--and he was
almost as startled by her blunder as she herself was. He hastily came
to her rescue. He thanked her in a few rapid and formal words for her
patience and advice; and, as he saw she was trying to turn away and
hide the mortification visible on her face, he shook hands with her
and let her go.

Then he turned. He had been startled, it is true, and grieved to see
the pain her chance words had caused her. But now a great glow of
delight rose up within him, and he could have called aloud to the blue
skies and the silent woods because of the joy that filled his heart.
They were but chance words, of course. They were uttered with no
deliberate intention: on the contrary, her quick look of pain showed
how bitterly she regretted the blunder. Moreover, he congratulated
himself on his rapid piece of acting, and assured himself that she
would believe that he had not noticed that admission of hers. They
were idle words: she would forget them. The incident, so far as she
was concerned, was gone.

But not so far as he was concerned. For now he knew that the person
whom, above all other persons in the world, he was most desirous to
please, whose respect and esteem he was most anxious to obtain, had
not only condoned much of his idleness out of the abundant charity of
her heart, but had further, and by chance, revealed to him that she
gave him some little share of that affection which she seemed to shed
generously and indiscriminately on so many folks and things around
her. He, too, was now in the charmed circle. He walked with a new
pride through the warm, green meadows, his rod over his shoulder: he
whistled as he went, or he sang snatches of "The Rose of Allandale."
He met two small boys out bird's-nesting: he gave them a shilling
apiece, and then inconsistently informed them that if he caught them
then or at any other time with a bird's nest in their hands he would
cuff their ears. Then he walked hastily home, put by his fishing-rod,
and shut himself up in his study with half a dozen of those learned
volumes which he had brought back unsoiled from school.


CHAPTER XXII.

ON WINGS OF HOPE.


When Trelyon arrived late one evening at Penzance he was surprised
to find his uncle's coachman awaiting him at the station: "What's the
matter, Tobias? Is the old gentleman going to die? You don't mean to
say you are here for me?"

"Yaäs, zor, I be," said the little old man with no great courtesy.

"Then he is going to die if he sends out his horse at this time o'
night. Look here, Tobias: I'll put my portmanteau inside and come on
the box to have a talk with you--you're such a jolly old card, you
know--and you'll tell me all that's happened since I last enjoyed my
uncle's bountiful hospitality."

This the young man did: and then the brown-faced, wiry and surly
little person, having started his horse, proceeded to tell his story
in a series of grumbling and disconnected sentences. He was not nearly
so taciturn as he looked: "The maäster he went sün to bed to-night:
'twere Miss Juliott sent me to the station, without tellin' en. He's
gettin' worse and worse, that's sure: if yü be for giving me half a
crown, like, or any one that comes to the house, he finds it out and
stops it out o' my wages: yes, he does, zor, the old fule!"

"Tobias, be a little more respectful to my uncle, if you please."

"Why, zor, yü knaw en well enough," said the man in the same surly
fashion. "And I'll tell yü this, Maäster Harry, if yü be after
dinner with en, and he has a bottle o' poort wine that he puts on
the mantelpiece, and he says to yü to let that aloän, vor 'tis a
medicine-zart o' wine, don't yü heed en, but have that wine. 'Tis the
real old poort wine, zor, that yür vather gied en--the dahmned old
pagan!"

The young man burst out laughing, instead of reprimanding Tobias, who
maintained his sulky impassiveness of face.

"Why, zor, I be gardener now, too: yaäs I be, to save the wages.
And he's gone clean mazed about that garden--yaäs, I think. Would yü
believe this, Maäster Harry, that he killed every one o' the blessed
strawberries last year with a lot o' wrack from the bache, because he
said it wüd be as good for them as for the 'sparagus?"

"Well, but the old chap finds amusement in pottering about the
garden--" said Master Harry.

"The old fule!" repeated Tobias, in an under tone.

"And the theory is sound about the seaweed and the strawberries;
just as his old notion of getting a green rose by pouring sulphate of
copper in at the roots."

"Yaäs, that were another pretty thing, Maäster Harry, and he had the
tin labels all printed out in French, and he waited and waited, and
there bain't a fairly güde rose left in the garden. And his violet
glass for the cucumbers: he burned en up to once, although 'twere fine
to hear'n talk about the sunlight and the rays and such nonsenses. He
be a strange mahn, zor, and a dahmned close'n with his penny-pieces,
Christian and all as he calls his-sen. There's Miss Juliott, zor,
she's go-in' to get married, I suppose; and when she goes no one 'll
dare spake to 'n. Be yü going to stop long this time, Maäster Harry?"

"Not at the Hollies, Tobias. I shall go down to the Queen's to-morrow:
I've got rooms there."

"So much the better--so much the better," said the frank but
inhospitable retainer; and presently the jogtrot old animal between
the shafts was pulled up in front of a certain square old-fashioned
building of gray stone which was prettily surrounded with trees. They
had arrived at the Rev. Mr. Penaluna's house, and there was a young
lady standing in the light of the hall, she having opened the door
very softly as she heard the carriage drive up.

"So here you are, Harry; and you'll stay with us the whole fortnight,
won't you? Come in to the dining-room--I have some supper ready for
you. Papa's gone to bed, and he desired me to give you his excuses,
and he hopes you'll make yourself quite at home, as you always do,
Harry."

He did make himself quite at home, for, having kissed his cousin and
flung his topcoat down in the hall, he went into the dining-room and
took possession of an easy-chair.

"Sha'n't have any supper, Jue, thank you. You won't mind my lighting
a cigar--somebody's been smoking here already. And what's the least
poisonous claret you've got?"

"Well, I declare!" she said, but she got him the wine all the
same, and watched him light his cigar: then she took the easy-chair
opposite.

"Tell us about your young man, Jue," he said. "Girls always like to
talk about that."

"Do they?" she said. "Not to boys."

"I shall be twenty-one in a fortnight. I am thinking of getting
married."

"So I hear," she remarked quietly.

Now he had been talking nonsense at random, mostly intent on getting
his cigar well lit, but this little observation rather startled him.
"What have you heard?" he said abruptly.

"Oh, nothing--the ordinary stupid gossip," she said, though she was
watching him rather closely. "Are you going to stay with us for the
next fortnight?"

"No, I have got rooms at the Queen's."

"I thought so. One might have expected you, however, to stay with your
relations when you came to Penzance."

"Oh, that's all gammon, Jue," he said: "you know very well your father
doesn't care to have any one stay with you--it's too much bother.
You'll have quite enough of me while I am in Penzance."

"Shall we have anything of you?" she said with apparent indifference.
"I understood that Miss Rosewarne and her mamma had already come
here."

"And what if they have?" he said with unnecessary fierceness.

"Well, Harry," she said, "you needn't get unto a temper about it, but
people will talk, you know; and they say that your attentions to that
young lady are rather marked, considering that she is engaged to be
married; and you have induced your mother to make a pet of her. Shall
I go on?"

"No, you needn't," he said with a strong effort to overcome his anger.
"You're quite right--people do talk, but they wouldn't talk so much
if other people didn't carry tales. Why, it isn't like you, Jue! I
thought you were another sort. And about this girl, of all girls in
the world!"

He got up and began walking about the room, and talking with
considerable vehemence, but no more in anger. He would tell her what
cause there was for this silly gossip. He would tell her who this
girl was who had been lightly mentioned. And in his blunt, frank,
matter-of-fact way, which did not quite conceal his emotion, he
revealed to his cousin all that he thought of Wenna Rosewarne, and
what he hoped for her in the future, and what their present relations
were, and then plainly asked her if she could condemn him.

Miss Juliott was touched: "Sit down, Harry: I have wanted to talk
to you, and I don't mean to heed any gossip. Sit down, please--you
frighten me by walking up and down like that. Now, I'm going to talk
common sense to you, for I should like to be your friend; and your
mother is so easily led away by any sort of sentiment that she isn't
likely to have seen with my eyes. Suppose that this Miss Rosewarne--"

"No, hold hard a bit, Jue," he said imperatively. "You may talk till
the millennium, but just keep off her, I warn you."

"Will you hear me out, you silly boy? Suppose that Miss Rosewarne
is everything that you believe her to be. I'm going to grant that,
because I'm going to ask you a question. You can't have such an
opinion of any girl, and be constantly in her society, and go
following her about like this, without falling in love with her. Now,
in that case would you propose to marry her?"

"I marry her!" he said, his face becoming suddenly pale for a moment.
"Jue, you are mad! I am not fit to marry a girl like that. You don't
know her. Why--"

"Let all that alone, Harry: when a man is in love with a woman he
always thinks he's good enough for her; and whether he does or not
he tries to get her for a wife. Don't let us discuss your comparative
merits: one might even put in a word for you. But suppose you drifted
into being in love with her--and I consider that quite probable--and
suppose you forgot, as I know you would forget, the difference in your
social position, how would you like to go and ask her to break her
promise to the gentleman to whom she is engaged?"

Master Harry laughed aloud in a somewhat nervous fashion: "Him? Look
here, Jue: leave me out of it--I haven't the cheek to talk of myself
in that connection--but if there was a decent sort of fellow whom that
girl really took a liking to, do you think he would let that elderly
and elegant swell out in Jamaica stand in his way? He would be no
such fool, I can tell you. He would consider the girl first of all.
He would say to himself, 'I mean to make this girl happy; if any one
interferes, let him look out!' Why, Jue, you don't suppose any man
would be frightened by that sort of thing?"

Miss Juliott did not seem quite convinced by this burst of scornful
oratory. She continued quietly, "You forget something, Harry. Your
heroic young man might find it easy to do something wild--to fight
with that gentleman in the West Indies, or murder him, or anything
like that, just as you see in a story--but perhaps Miss Rosewarne
might have something to say."

"I meant if she cared for him," Trelyon said, looking down.

"Granting that also, do you think it likely your hot-headed gentleman
would be able to get a young lady to disgrace herself by breaking her
plighted word and deceiving a man who went away trusting in her?
You say she has a very tender conscience--that she is so anxious to
consult every one's happiness before her own, and all that. Probably
it is true. I say nothing against her. But to bring the matter back to
yourself--for I believe you're hot-headed enough to do anything--what
would you think of her if you or anybody else persuaded her to do such
a treacherous thing?"

"She is not capable of treachery," he said somewhat stiffly. "If
you've got no more cheerful things to talk about, you'd better go to
bed, Jue. I shall finish my cigar by myself."

"Very well, then, Harry. You know your room. Will you put out the lamp
when you have lit your candle?"

So she went, and the young man was left alone in no very enviable
frame of mind. He sat and smoked while the clock on the mantelpiece
swung its gilded boy and struck the hours and half hours with unheeded
regularity. He lit a second cigar, and a third; he forgot the wine.
It seemed to him that he was looking on all the roads of life that lay
before him, and they were lit up by as strange and new a light as
that which was beginning to shine over the world outside. New fancies
seemed to awake with the new dawn. For himself to ask Wenna Rosewarne
to be his wife! Could he but win the tender and shy regard of her eyes
he would fall at her feet and bathe them with his tears. And if this
wonderful thing were possible--if she could put her hand in his
and trust to him for safety in all the coming years they might live
together--what man of woman born would dare to interfere? There was a
blue light coming in through the shutters. He went to the window:
the topmost leaves of the trees were quivering in the cold air far up
there in the clearing skies, where the stars were fading out one by
one, and he could hear the sound of the sea on the distant beach, and
he knew that across the gray plain of waters the dawn was breaking,
and that over the sleeping world another day was rising that seemed to
him the first day of a new and tremulous life, full of joy and courage
and hope.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]


ON THE VIA SAN BASILIO.


In Rome, 1851; a cold, dreary day in December--one of those days in
which a man's ambition seems to desert him entirely, leaving only its
grinning skeleton to mock him. Depressing as was the weather to a man
who had cheerfulness as a companion by which to repel its blustering
attacks, and raise his mind above the despondency it was calculated
to produce, how much more so to one whose hope had gone out as a
flickering lamp in a sudden gust of wind, and the sharp steel of whose
ambition had turned to pierce his own heart!

Such a man, on the day mentioned, was walking along the Via San
Basilio. He was small in stature, poorly clad, and so thin, and
even cadaverous, that the casual observer might have been under
apprehension lest a gust of wind a little stronger than the average
might blow him entirely away; yet his air and manner were proud and
haughty, and what little evidences of feeling peered through the signs
of dissipation too apparent on his naturally attractive face were
those of genuine refinement. He was accompanied by a cicerone, or
servant, as villainous-looking a fellow as one often meets, even in
Italy, where an evil expression is so often seen stamped on handsome
features.

Along the Via San Basilio the two men walked until they stood opposite
the door of No. 51. Sacred ground this, and historical as well. Art
had her votaries here, as the tourist of to-day will find she still
has, at whose shrines pilgrims from afar and from near worshiped, and
grew better and stronger for their ministrations. Crawford, then
at the acme of his fame, had his constantly-thronged studio in the
immediate vicinity, while those at No. 51 embraced, among others, that
of Tenerani, the famous Italian sculptor, whose work is always in such
fine dramatic taste, although he never sacrifices his love and
deep feeling of reverence for Nature, combining that with the most
delightful charms of Greek art. Among this artist's most noted works
will be remembered his "Descent from the Cross," which tourists
visiting the Torlonia chapel in the Lateran never gaze upon without
a thrill. The house was owned and also occupied by Bienaimé, a French
sculptor who afterward became famous.

In the immediate vicinity stands the famous Palazzo Barberini, begun
by Urban VIII. (Maffeo Barberini), who sat in the pontifical chair
from 1623 to 1644, and finished by Bernini in 1640. This palace
contains many paintings of historical interest by Raphael, Titian,
Guido, Claude and others. The one by the first-mentioned artist is a
Fornarina, and bears the autograph of the painter on the armlet. But
the picture that attracts the most attention here is one of world-wide
reputation, copies, engravings and photographs of which are everywhere
to be met with--Guido's Beatrice Cenci. A great divergence of opinion,
as is well known, exists in regard to the portrait. It bears the
pillar and crown of the Colonnas, to which family it probably
belonged. According to the family tradition, it was taken on the night
before her execution. Other accounts state that it was painted by
Guido from memory after he had seen her on the scaffold. Judging from
the position in which the poor girl's head is represented, one would
more readily give credence to the latter story, and think the artist's
memory had preserved her look and position as she turned her head for
a last look at the brutal, bellowing crowd behind.

In the piazza of the palace is a very beautiful fountain, utilized
by one of the oldest Roman statues, representing a faun blowing water
from a conch-shell.

But we must return to the Via San Basilio, and the two wayfarers we
left standing in front of No. 51. After gazing a moment at the number
to assure themselves that they were right, they entered, and knocked
at the first door, which was opened by the occupant of the apartment.
He was an artist and a man of very marked characteristics. Seven
years later Hawthorne wrote as follows of him: "He is a plain, homely
Yankee, quite unpolished by his many years' residence in Italy. He
talks ungrammatically; walks with a strange, awkward gait and stooping
shoulders; is altogether unpicturesque, but wins one's confidence
by his very lack of grace. It is not often that we see an artist
so entirely free from affectation in his aspect and deportment.
His pictures were views of Swiss and Italian scenery, and were most
beautiful and true. One of them, a moonlight picture, was really
magical--the moon shining so brightly that it seemed to throw a
light even beyond the limits of the picture; and yet his sunrises and
sunsets, and noontides too, were nowise inferior to this, although
their excellence required somewhat longer study to be fully
appreciated."

After this introduction by our sweet and quaint romancer, the reader
will hardly need be told that the two strangers stood in the presence
of America's now illustrious artist, George L. Brown. But one seeing
him then, as he stood almost scowling at the two strangers, would
hardly have idealized him into the artist whose pencil has done so
much of late years to give American art a distinctive name through his
poetical delineations of the rare, sun-tinted atmosphere that hovers
over Italian landscapes. However, our apology for him must be that the
day was raw and blustering, and that he had no sooner caught sight
of the men through his window, as they hesitatingly entered the door,
than his suspicions were aroused.

The Italian acted as spokesman, and inquired if there were any rooms
to let in the building. Brown, thinking this the easiest way of
ridding himself of the visitors, went in search of the landlord, who
came, and after a moment's conversation the whole party entered the
studio, much to its owner's displeasure.

The cicerone did most of the talking, though now and then the other
made a remark or two in broken Italian. But this was only for the
first few moments. He soon became oblivious of all save art, of which
one could see at a glance he was passionately fond. One of Mr. Brown's
pictures--a large one he was then engaged on--particularly attracted
his attention. He drew closer and closer to the canvas, examining it
with a minuteness that showed the connoisseur, and finally remarked:
"It is very fine in color, sir, and the atmosphere is delicious. Why
have I not heard of you before?" examining the corner of the canvas
for the artist's name, but speaking in a tone and with an air that
gave Brown the impression he was indulging in the random flattery so
current in studios. So, ignoring the question, he asked with a slight
shrug of the shoulders, "Are you an artist?"

"I paint a little," was the reply, with an air of modesty which Brown
mistook for the bashful half-assertion of some daubing amateur.

Just then the cicerone came forward and announced that the bargain was
completed and the room ready for occupancy.

"I shall be happy--no, _happy_ is not a good word for me--I shall be
glad to see you in my studio when I have moved in, and perhaps you may
see some things to please you."

So saying, the stranger departed, leaving Brown not a whit better
impressed with him than at first.

The next morning the two called again, when the gentleman made an
examination of the room selected the day before, having met Mr. Brown
in the hall-way and invited him in. On entering, the new occupant took
from his pocket a piece of chalk and a compass and made a number of
circles and figures on the floor to determine when the sun would shine
in the room. Brown watched him with a certain degree of curiosity and
amusement, and finally, concluding he was half crazy, returned to his
own studio.

The next day the cicerone called alone to see about some repairs, when
Brown hailed him: "_Buono giorno. Che è questo_?" ("Good-day. Who is
that?")

"_Non sapete_?" ("Don't you know?"), was the Italian's response. "Why,
that is the celebrated Brullof."

Brown started as though shot. First there flashed through his brain
the remembrance of how cavalierly he had treated the distinguished
artist, and then a quick panorama of his recent history, which had
been the gossip of studios and art-circles for some time back. "I must
go to him," he said, "and apologize for not treating him with more
deference."

"_Non, signore_," was the cicerone's response. "Never mind: let it
rest. He is a man of the world, and pays little heed to such things.
Besides, he is so overwhelmed with his private griefs that he has
probably noticed no slight."

However, when the great Russian artist took possession of his studio
his American brother of the pencil made his apology, and received this
response; "Don't waste words on so trivial a matter. Do I not court
the contempt of a world that I despise to my heart's core? Say no more
about it. Run in and see me when agreeable; and if you have no better
callers than such a plaything of fate as I, maybe you will not refuse
me occasional admittance."

The Russian artist now shunned notoriety as he had formerly courted
it. Little is known of his history beyond mere rumor, and that only in
artistic circles. He was born at St. Petersburg in 1799 or 1800, and
gave himself to the study of art at an early age, becoming an especial
proficient in color and composition. One of his most widely-known
works is "The Last Days of Pompeii," which created great enthusiasm a
quarter of a century ago. This, however, was painted during his career
of dissipation, and its vivid coloring seemed to have been drawn from
a soul morbid with secret woes and craving a nepenthe which never
came.

The young artist was petted and idolized by the wealth and nobility
of St. Petersburg, where he married a beautiful woman, and became
court-painter to the czar Nicholas about the year 1830. For some years
no couple lived more happily, and no artist swayed a greater multitude
of fashion and wealth than he; but scandal began to whisper that
the czar was as fond of the handsome, brilliant wife of the young
court-painter as the cultivated people of St. Petersburg were of the
husband's marvelously colored works; and when at last the fact became
known to Brullof that the monarch who had honored him through an
intelligent appreciation of art had dishonored him through a guilty
passion for his wife, he left St. Petersburg, swore never again to
set foot on Russian soil or be recognized as a Russian subject, and,
plunging headlong into a wild career of dissipation, was thenceforth a
wanderer up and down the continent of Europe.

It was when this career had borne its inevitable fruit, and he was but
a mere wreck of the polished gentleman of a few years previous, that
Brullof came to the Via San Basilio, where, as soon as the fact
became known, visitors began to call. Among the first were the Russian
ambassador and suite, who were driven up in a splendid carriage, with
liveried attendants; but after the burly Italian had announced to his
master who was in waiting, the door was closed, and with no message in
return the representatives of the mightiest empire on the globe
were left to withdraw with the best grace they could muster for the
occasion. Similar scenes were repeated often during the entire Roman
season. He saw but few of his callers--Russians, never.

The Russian and the American artists became quite intimate during the
few months they were thrown together, and Mr. Brown has acknowledged
that he owes much of the success of his later efforts to hints
received from the self-exiled, dying Russian.

"Mr. Brown," he said on one occasion, while examining the picture on
the artist's easel, "no one since Claude has painted atmosphere as you
do. But you must follow Calamé's example, and make drawing more of
a study. Draw from Nature, and do it faithfully, and with your
atmosphere I will back you against the world. That is bad," pointing
to the huge limb of a tree in the foreground: "it bulges both ways,
you see. Now, Nature is never so. Look at my arm," speaking with
increased animation, and suddenly throwing off his coat and rolling
up his shirt-sleeve. "When you see a convexity, you will see concavity
opposite. Just so in Nature, especially in the trunks and limbs of
trees."

This criticism made such an impression on Brown that it decided him
to go into more laborious work, and was the foundation of his habit
of getting up at daybreak and going out to sketch rocks, trees and
cattle, until he stands where he now does as a draughtsman.

The painting which Brullof had first admired, and which had induced
him to compare Brown to Claude in atmospheric effects, was a view of
the Pontine Marshes, painted for Crawford the sculptor, and now in
possession, of his widow, Mrs. Terry, at Rome.

During this entire season the penuriousness exhibited by Brullof is
one of the hardest phases of his character to explain. Though he was
worth at least half a million of dollars, his meals were generally of
the scantiest kind, purchased by the Italian cicerone, and cooked and
eaten in his room. Yet a kindness would touch the hidden springs of
his generosity as the staff of Moses did the rock of Horeb.

Toward the close of the Roman season, Brullof, growing more and more
moody, and becoming still more of a recluse, painted his last picture,
which showed how diseased and morbid his mind had become. He called it
"The End of All Things," and made it sensational to the verge of that
flexible characteristic. It represented popes and emperors tumbling
headlong into a terrible abyss, while the world's benefactors
were ascending in a sort of theatrical transformation-scene. A
representation of Christ holding a cross aloft was given, and winged
angels were hovering here and there, much in the same manner as
_coryphées_ and lesser auxiliaries of the ballet. A capital portrait
of George Washington was painted in the mass of rubbish, perhaps as
a compliment to Brown. In contradistinction to the portrait of
Washington were seen prominently those of the czar Nicholas and the
emperor Napoleon; the former put in on account of the artist's own
private wrong, and the latter because at that time, just after the
_coup d'ètat_, he was the execration of the liberty-loving world.

In the spring the Russian artist gave up his studio, and went down
to some baths possessing a local reputation situated on the road to
Florence, where he died very suddenly. Much mystery overhangs his last
days, and absolutely no knowledge exists as to what became of his
vast property. His cicerone robbed him of his gold watch and all
his personal effects and disappeared. His remains lie buried in the
Protestant burying-ground outside the walls of Rome, near the Porto
di Sebastiano. His tomb is near that of Shelley and Keats, and
the monument erected to his memory is very simple, his head being
sculptured upon it in _alto relievo_, and on the opposite side an
artist's palette and brushes.

EARL MARBLE.


A CHRISTMAS HYMN.

  The air was still o'er Bethlehem's plain,
    As if the great Night held its breath,
  When Life Eternal came to reign
    Over a world of Death.

  The pagan at his midnight board
    Let fall his brimming cup of gold:
  He felt the presence of his Lord
    Before His birth was told.

  The temples trembled to their base,
    The idols shuddered as in pain:
  A priesthood in its power of place
    Knelt to its gods in vain.