In _Fruits and Farinacea_, Professor Lawrence is quoted as follows:
'The inhabitants of Northern Europe and Asia, the Laplanders, Samoiedes,
Ostiacs, Tangooses, Burats, Kamtschatdales, as well as the natives of
Terra del Fuego in the Southern extremity of America, are the smallest,
weakest, and least brave people on the globe; although they live almost
entirely on flesh, and that often raw.'

Many athletic achievements of recent date have been won by vegetarians
both in this country and abroad. The following successes are
noteworthy:--Walking: Karl Mann, Dresden to Berlin, Championship of
Germany; George Allen, Land's End to John-o'-Groats. Running: E. R.
Voigt, Olympic Championship, etc.: F. A. Knott, 5,000 metres Belgian
record. Cycling: G. A. Olley, Land's End to John-o'-Groats record.
Tennis: Eustace Miles, M.A., various championships, etc. Of especial
interest at the present moment are a series of tests and experiments
recently carried out at Yale University, U.S.A., under Professor Irving
Fisher, with the object of discovering the suitability of different
dietaries for athletes, and the effect upon the human system in general.
The results were surprising. 'One of the most severe tests,' remarks
Professor Fisher, 'was in deep knee-bending, or "squatting." Few of the
meat-eaters could "squat" more than three to four hundred times. On the
other hand a Yale student who had been a flesh-abstainer for two years,
did the deep knee-bending eighteen hundred times without exhaustion....
One remarkable difference between the two sets of men was the
comparative absence of soreness in the muscles of the meat-abstainers
after the tests.'

The question as to climate is often raised; many people labour under the
idea that a vegetable diet may be suitable in a hot climate, but not in
a cold. That this idea is false is shown by facts, some of which the
above quotations supply. That man can live healthily in arctic regions
on a vegetable diet has been amply demonstrated. In a cold climate the
body requires a considerable quantity of heat-producing food, that is,
food containing a good supply of hydrocarbons (fats), and carbohydrates
(starches and sugars). Many vegetable foods are rich in these
properties, as will be explained in the essay following dealing with
dietetics. Strong and enduring vegetable-feeding animals, such as the
musk-ox and the reindeer, flourish on the scantiest food in an arctic
climate, and there is no evidence to show that man could not equally
well subsist on vegetable food under similar conditions.

In an article entitled _Vegetarianism in Cold Climates_, by Captain
Walter Carey, R.N., the author describes his observations during a
winter spent in Manchuria. The weather, we are told, was exceedingly
cold, the thermometer falling as low as minus 22° F. After speaking of
the various arduous labours the natives are engaged in, Captain Carey
describes the physique and diet of natives in the vicinity of
Niu-Chwang as follows: 'The men accompanying the carts were all very big
and of great strength, and it was obvious that none but exceptionally
strong and hardy men could withstand the hardships of their long march,
the intense cold, frequent blizzards, and the work of forcing their
queer team along in spite of everything. One could not help wondering
what these men lived on, and I found that the chief article was beans,
which, made into a coarse cake, supplied food for both men and animals.
I was told by English merchants who travelled in the interior, that
everywhere they found the same powerful race of men, living on beans and
rice--in fact, vegetarians. Apparently they obtain the needful proteid
and fat from the beans; while the coarse once-milled rice furnishes them
with starch, gluten, and mineral salts, etc. Spartan fare, indeed, but
proving how easy it is to sustain life without consuming flesh-food.'

So far, then, as the physical condition of those nations who are
practically vegetarian is concerned, we have to conclude that practice
tallies with theory. Science teaches that man should live on a non-flesh
diet, and when we come to consider the physique of those nations and men
who do so, we have to acknowledge that their bodily powers and their
health equal, if not excel, those of nations and men who, in part,
subsist upon flesh. But it is interesting to go yet further. It has
already been stated that mind and body are inseparable; that one reacts
upon the other: therefore it is not irrelevant, in passing, to observe
what mental powers are possessed by those races and individuals who
subsist entirely upon the products of the vegetable kingdom.

When we come to consider the mentality of the Oriental races we
certainly have to acknowledge that Oriental culture--ethical,
metaphysical, and poetical--has given birth to some of the grandest and
noblest thoughts that mankind possesses, and has devised philosophical
systems that have been the comfort and salvation of countless millions
of souls. Anyone who doubts the intellectual and ethical attainments of
that remarkable nation of which we in the West know so little--the
Chinese--should read the panegyric written by Sir Robert Hart, who, for
forty years, lived among them, and learnt to love and venerate them as
worthy of the highest admiration and respect. Others have written in
praise of the people of Burma. Speaking of the Burman, a traveller
writes: 'He will exercise a graceful charity unheard of in the West--he
has discovered how to make life happy without selfishness and to combine
an adequate power for hard work with a corresponding ability to enjoy
himself gracefully ... he is a philosopher and an artist.'

Speaking of the Indian peasant a writer in an English journal says: 'The
ryot lives in the face of Nature, on a simple diet easily procured, and
inherits a philosophy, which, without literary culture, lifts his spirit
into a higher plane of thought than other peasantries know of.
Abstinence from flesh food of any kind, not only gives him pure blood
exempt from civilized diseases but makes him the friend and not the
enemy, of the animal world around.'

Eastern literature is renowned for its subtle metaphysics. The higher
types of Orientals are endowed with an extremely subtle intelligence, so
subtle as to be wholly unintelligible to the ordinary Westerner. It is
said that Pythagoras and Plato travelled in the East and were initiated
into Eastern mysticism. The East possesses many scriptures, and the
greater part of the writings of Eastern scholars consist of commentaries
on the sacred writings. Among the best known monumental philosophical
and literary achievements maybe mentioned the _Tao Teh C'hing_; the
_Zend Avesta;_ the _Three Vedas_; the _Brahmanas_; the _Upanishads;_ and
the _Bhagavad-gita_, that most beautiful 'Song Celestial' which for
nearly two thousand years has moulded the thoughts and inspired the
aspirations of the teeming millions of India.

As to the testimony of individuals it is interesting to note that some
of the greatest philosophers, scientists, poets, moralists, and many men
of note, in different walks of life, in past and modern times, have, for
various reasons, been vegetarians, among whom have been named the
following:--

  Manu
  Zoroaster
  Pythagoras
  Zeno
  Buddha
  Isaiah
  Daniel
  Empedocles
  Socrates
  Plato
  Aristotle
  Porphyry
  John Wesley
  Franklin
  Goldsmith
  Ray
  Paley
  Isaac Newton
  Jean Paul Richter
  Schopenhauer
  Byron
  Gleizes
  Hartley
  Rousseau
  Iamblichus
  Hypatia
  Diogenes
  Quintus Sextus
  Ovid
  Plutarch
  Seneca
  Apollonius
  The Apostles
    Matthew
    James
    James the Less
    Peter
  The Christian Fathers
    Clement
    Tertullian
    Origen
    Chrysostom
    St. Francis d'Assisi
  Cornaro
  Leonardo da Vinci
  Milton
  Locke
  Spinoza
  Voltaire
  Pope
  Gassendi
  Swedenborg
  Thackeray
  Linnæus
  Shelley
  Lamartine
  Michelet
  William Lambe
  Sir Isaac Pitman
  Thoreau
  Fitzgerald
  Herbert Burrows
  Garibaldi
  Wagner
  Edison
  Tesla
  Marconi
  Tolstoy
  George Frederick Watts
  Maeterlinck
  Vivekananda
  General Booth
  Mrs. Besant
  Bernard Shaw
  Rev. Prof. John E. B. Mayor
  Hon. E. Lyttelton
  Rev. R. J. Campbell
  Lord Charles Beresford
  Gen. Sir Ed. Bulwer
  etc., etc., etc.

The following is a list of the medical and scientific authorities who
have expressed opinions favouring vegetarianism:--

  M. Pouchet
  Baron Cuvier
  Linnæus
  Professor Laurence, F.R.S.
  Sir Charles Bell, F.R.S.
  Gassendi
  Flourens
  Sir John Owen
  Professor Howard Moore
  Sylvester Graham, M.D.
  John Ray, F.R.S.
  Professor H. Schaafhausen
  Sir Richard Owen, F.R.S.
  Charles Darwin, LL.D., F.R.S.
  Dr. John Wood, M.D.
  Professor Irving Fisher
  Professor A. Wynter Blyth, F.R.C.S.
  Edward Smith, M.B., F.R.S., LL.B.
  Adam Smith, F.R.S.
  Lord Playfair, M.D., C.B.
  Sir Henry Thompson, M.B., F.R.C.S.
  Dr. F. J. Sykes, B. Sc.
  Dr. Anna Kingsford
  Professor G. Sims Woodhead, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S.
  Alexander Haig, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P.
  Dr. W. B. Carpenter, C.B., F.R.S.
  Dr. Josiah Oldfield, D.C.L., M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.
  Virchow
  Sir Benjamin W. Richardson, M.P., F.R.C.S.
  Dr. Robert Perks, M.D., F.R.C.S.
  Dr. Kellogg, M.D.
  Harry Campbell, M.D.
  Dr. Olsen
  etc., etc.

Before concluding this section it might be pointed out that the curious
prejudice which is always manifested when men are asked to consider any
new thing is as strongly in evidence against food reform as in other
innovations. For example, flesh-eating is sometimes defended on the
ground that vegetarians do not look hale and hearty, as healthy persons
should do. People who speak in this way probably have in mind one or two
acquaintances who, through having wrecked their health by wrong living,
have had to abstain from the 'deadly decoctions of flesh' and adopt a
simpler and purer dietary. It is not fair to judge meat abstainers by
those who have had to take to a reformed diet solely as a curative
measure; nor is it fair to lay the blame of a vegetarian's sickness on
his diet, as if it were impossible to be sick from any other cause. The
writer has known many vegetarians in various parts of the world, and he
fails to understand how anyone moving about among vegetarians, either in
this country or elsewhere, can deny that such people look as healthy and
cheerful as those who live upon the conventional omnivorous diet.

If a vegetarian, owing to inherited susceptibilities, or incorrect
rearing in childhood, or any other cause outside his power to prevent,
is sickly and delicate, is it just to lay the blame on his present
manner of life? It would, indeed, seem most reasonable to assume that
the individual in question would be in a much worse condition had he not
forsaken his original and mistaken diet when he did. The writer once
heard an acquaintance ridicule vegetarianism on the ground that Thoreau
died of pulmonary consumption at forty-five! One is reminded of Oliver
Wendell Holmes' witty saying:--'The mind of the bigot is like the pupil
of the eye: the more it sees the light, the more it contracts.'

In conclusion, there is, as we have seen in our review of typical
vegetarian peoples and classes throughout the world, the strongest
evidence that those who adopt a sensible non-flesh dietary, suited to
their own constitution and environment, are almost invariably healthier,
stronger, and longer-lived than those who rely chiefly upon flesh-meat
for nutriment.


III

ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS


The primary consideration in regard to the question of diet should be,
as already stated, the hygienic. Having shown that the non-flesh diet is
the more natural, and the more advantageous from the point of view of
health, let us now consider which of the two--vegetarianism or
omnivorism--is superior from the ethical point of view.

The science of ethics is the science of conduct. It is founded,
primarily, upon philosophical postulates without which no code or system
of morals could be formulated. Briefly, these postulates are, (a), every
activity of man has as its deepest motive the end termed Happiness, (b)
the Happiness of the individual is indissolubly bound up with the
Happiness of all Creation. The truth of (a) will be evident to every
person of normal intelligence: all arts and systems aim consciously, or
unconsciously, at some good, and so far as names are concerned everyone
will be willing to call the Chief Good by the term Happiness, although
there may be unlimited diversity of opinion as to its nature, and the
means to attain it. The truth of (b) also becomes apparent if the matter
is carefully reflected upon. Everything that is _en rapport_ with all
other things: the pebble cast from the hand alters the centre of gravity
in the Universe. As in the world of things and acts, so in the world of
thought, from which all action springs. Nothing can happen to the part
but the whole gains or suffers as a consequence. Every breeze that
blows, every cry that is uttered, every thought that is born, affects
through perpetual metamorphoses every part of the entire Cosmic
Existence.[2]

We deduce from these postulates the following ethical precepts: a wise
man will, firstly, so regulate his conduct that thereby he may
experience the greatest happiness; secondly, he will endeavour to bestow
happiness on others that by so doing he may receive, indirectly, being
himself a part of the Cosmic Whole, the happiness he gives. Thus supreme
selfishness is synonymous with supreme egoism, a truth that can only be
stated paradoxically.

Applying this latter precept to the matter in hand, it is obvious that
since we should so live as to give the greatest possible happiness to
all beings capable of appreciating it, and as it is an indisputable
fact that animals can suffer pain, _and that men who slaughter animals
needlessly suffer from atrophy of all finer feelings_, we should
therefore cause no unnecessary suffering in the animal world. Let us
then consider whether, knowing flesh to be unnecessary as an article of
diet, we are, in continuing to demand and eat flesh-food, acting morally
or not. To answer this query is not difficult.

