The life of this aged citizen is marked with circumstances which never
befel any other man; for he saw greater events than any man, at least,
since the Patriarchs. He saw the same spot of earth, in the course of
his own life, covered with woods and bushes, the receptacles of wild
beasts and birds of prey, afterwards become the seat of a great city,
not only the first in wealth and arts in America, but equalled by few in
Europe; he saw great and regular streets, where he had often pursued
hares and wild rabbits; he saw fine churches rise upon morasses, where
he used to hear nothing but the croaking of frogs; great wharfs and
warehouses, where he had so often seen the Indian savages draw their
fish from the river; and that river afterwards full of great ships from
all the world, which in his youth had nothing bigger than a canoe; and
on the same spot, where he had so often gathered huckleberries, he saw
their magnificent city hall erected, and that hall filled with
legislators, astonishing the world with their wisdom and virtue. He also
saw the first treaty ratified between the united powers of America, and
the most powerful prince in Europe, with all the formality of parchment
and seal; and on the same spot where he once saw William Penn ratify his
first and last treaty with the Indians; and to conclude, he saw the
beginning and end of the British empire in Pensylvania. He had been the
subject of many crowned heads; but when he heard of the many oppressive
and unconstitutional acts passed in Britain, he bought them all, and
gave them to his great grandson to make kites of; and embracing the
liberty and independence of his country in his withered arms, and
triumphing in the last year of his life, in the salvation of his
country. He died on the 17th of November, 1782, aged 103 years.


A SURE SIGN.


When the wind follows the sun and settles about north-west, north, or
east, we have fine weather; when, on the contrary, the wind opposes the
sun's course, and returns by west, south-west, south, and south-east,
and settles in the east, foul weather prevails.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GATHERER

    "I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--_Wotton_

       *       *       *       *       *


A man of learning was complaining to Voltaire, that few foreigners
relished the beauties of Shakspeare. "Sir," replied the wit, "bad
translations torment and vex them, and prevent them understanding your
great dramatist. A blind man, sir, cannot perceive the beauty of a rose,
who only pricks his fingers with the thorns."


       *       *       *       *       *


The reign of Edward I. was marked with a singular occurrence, which
serves to Illustrate the general character of this monarch. In the year
1285, Edward took away the charter of London, and turned out the mayor,
in consequence of his suffering himself to be bribed by the bakers, and
invested one of his own appointing with the civic authority. The city,
however, by making various presents to the king, and rendering him other
signal services, found means to have their charter restored.


       *       *       *       *       *


_Dr. E. D. Clarke's Rules far Travellers_.--"Remember that you are never
to conceive that you have added enough to your journal; never at liberty
to go to sleep, because you are fatigued, until you have filled up all
the blanks in it; never to go to the bottom of a mountain without also
visiting its top; never to omit visiting mines, where there are any;
never to listen to stories of banditti; nor in any instance to be
frightened by bugbears."

       *       *       *       *       *


A traveller lately returned from Florida says, it is the most fertile
country he ever found, the lands producing forty bushels of frogs to
the acre, and alligators enough to fence them--_American paper_.

