Produced by Juliet Sutherland, William Bumgarner and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team


LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

_OCTOBER, 1885_.

ON A TEXAS SHEEP-RANCH.

I.

There are words which have careers as well as men, or, perhaps it may be
more happily said, as well as women. Mere words breathed on by Fancy,
and sent forth not so much to serve man's ordinary colloquial uses,
apparently, as to fascinate his mind, have their _débuts_. their season,
their vogue, and finally a period in which it is really too bad if they
have not the consolation of reflecting upon their conquests; for
conquests they certainly have. The great captivators--the Cleopatras of
the vocabulary--one easily recognizes; but besides these there is a host
of small flirts and every-day coquettes, whom one hardly suspects till
they have a little carried him away. Almost every one remembers how in
this light company he first came across the little word _ranch_. It had
in its youth distinctly the _cachet_ of the verbal flying squadron, the
"nameless something," the oenanthic whiff which flies to the head. There
are signs that its best days as a word are now over, and in
contemplating it at present one has a vision of a _passée_ brunette, in
the costume of Fifine at the Fair, solacing herself with thoughts of
early triumphs. "Would a farm have served?" she murmurs. "Would a
plantation, an orange-grove, have satisfied the desperate young man? No,
no; he must have his ranch! There was no charm could soothe his
melancholy, and wring for him the public bosom, save mine."

I made this reflection during a period of incarceration in a
sleeping-car,--a form of confinement which, like any other, throws the
prisoner considerably on his fancy; and a vision somewhat like the above
smoothed for a moment the pillow of an "upper berth," and pleased better
than the negro porter. Half a dozen of those days of too many paper
novels, of too much tobacco, of too little else, followed each other
with the sameness of so many raw oysters. Then there came a chill night
of wide moonlit vacuity passed on the prairie by the side of the driver
of a "jumper,"--a driver who slumbered, happy man!--and at peep of dawn
I found myself standing, stiff and shivering, in a certain little Texas
town. A much-soiled, white little street, a bit of greenish-yellow,
treeless plain soft in the morning mist, a rosy fringe at the edge of
the sky,--it was of these things, together with a disagreeable sense of
imponderability of body from the cold and sleepless ride, that I was
vaguely aware as the jumper--rigorous vehicle!--disappeared round a
corner. Frontier towns are not lovely, and the death-like peace which
seemed properly to accompany the chalky pallor of the buildings was
somewhat uncanny; but it proved to be only what sleep can do for a
village with railroad influences one hundred miles away. We entered
boldly the adobe before which we had been dropped, and found a genial
landlord in an impromptu costume justified by the hour, an inn-album of
quite cosmopolitan range of inscriptions, and a breakfast for which a
week of traveller's fare had amply fortified the spirit.

The village was the chief, indeed, wellnigh the only, town of a great
west-by-north county, in which Rhode Island would be lost and
Massachusetts find elbow-room. It was an irregular little bunch of
buildings gathered along an arterial street which, after a run of three
hundred yards or so, broke to pieces and scattered its dispersed
shanties about a high, barren plain. It stood on the steep bank of a
little river, and over against it, on a naked hill, was Uncle Sam's
military village,--a fort by courtesy,--where, when not sleeping, black
soldiers and white strolled about in the warm sun. When the little
street was fairly awake, it presented a very lively appearance and had
the air of doing a great deal of business. The wan houses emitted their
occupants, and numerous pink-faced riders, in leathers and broad hats,
poured in from all sides, and, tying their heavily-accoutred ponies,
disappeared into the shops with a sort of bow-legged waddle, like
sailors ashore. Off his horse, the cow-boy is frankly awkward. Purchases
made, they departed with a rush, filling the glare with dust. Officers
from the post, with cork helmets and white trousers, came across the
river and stood in the broad shadows of adobe door-ways, gaping, and
switching their legs with bamboo canes. "It's magnificent," one seemed
to hear them mutter, "but it isn't war!" Groups of Mexicans stood about,
or, selecting a white wall, leaned against it, as they are apt to do at
home, for the better relief of their swarthy faces and brilliant scarfs;
and slowly moving down the street, stopping occasionally to speak to the
various clusters of men, there went the beneficent if somewhat untidy
figure of the Catholic father, in whose company we had breakfasted, a
fat, jolly, anecdotal inheritor of the mantle of some founder of the
Missions. The sun took absolute and merciless possession of the street.
You put your hand in your pocket for the smoked glass through which you
observed the last eclipse. Everything seemed bleached,--the white
buildings, the yellow road, the eyebrows of the cow-boys.

We did the drive of twenty miles to the ranch in a canvas-topped buggy,
drawn by a pair of devil-may-care little nags, who took us across dry
_arroyos_ and the rocky beds of running streams in a style that promised
to make sticks of the vehicle. It held good, however, and rattled out a
sort of derisive snicker at every fresh attempt to shiver it. The
country through which we passed afforded views of superb breadth and a
most interesting and delightful quality. No landscape has in the exact
sense such charm as one in which Nature manifests herself in a large and
simple way: one feels with a thrill that she is about to tell the
secret. The earth lay almost in its nakedness beneath the inane dome of
the sky. But over the large simplicity of form one was soon aware of an
exquisite play of hues. The easy undulations, as they ran off to the
unattainable horizon, were so many waves of delicate and varying color.
There were great sweeps of ochre, of gray, of fresh, light green,
pointed with black dots of live-oak, and traversed by tortuous lines of
indigo where the pecan treed creeks pursued their foiled courses, and
troops of little hills grouped themselves about,--pink, pinkish, purple,
purpling blue, white, as they faded from view like the evanescent
cherubs in the corner of an old master. The hills, however, were little
only because the stretch was so vast; it was really a broad plafond upon
which they had solemnly entered to dance a minuet with the playful
shadows of the clouds. The sky possessed everything. There was so much
of it that existence seemed to have become in a sense a celestial--or at
least an aerial--affair: the world was your balloon.

After the third creek-crossing the road ran straight as an avenue
through a broad, level reach, and we flew along gayly. The little
mesquite-trees, prim, dainty, and delicate, stood about in seeming
order, civilizing the landscape and giving it the air of an orchard; the
prairie-dog villages were thrown into a tumult of excitement by our
passage; a chaparral-cock slipped out of a bush, stared an instant,
pulled the string that lifts his tail and top-knot, and settled down for
a race directly under the horses' feet. We passed the point of a hill,
gained a slight rise, and the ranch was in sight. It must be confessed
that it was not in appearance all that the name might imply,--not the
sort of place for which one starts after having provided one's self with
a navy revolver and a low estimate of the value of human life. It was,
in fact, a very pretty and domestic scene, a little village of half a
dozen buildings and a net-work of white limestone and brush corrals.
Shortly I was supping in a neat little cottage, and endeavoring in the
usual way to be agreeable to some one in muslin. In this modern world we
change our skies, truly, but not--not our bric-à-brac. On the walls of
the pretty dining-room one beheld with rising feeling one's old friends
the Japanese fan and the discarded plate still clinging with the
touching persistence of the ivy to the oak. To be sure, there was a tall
half-breed Indian moving about with the silent agility of the warpath,
but he wore a white apron, and his hideous intention was to fill one's
wineglass. If the longitude had led me to meditate right buffalo's hump,
"washed down" with something coarse and potent enough to justify the
phrase, it was clear that I was painfully behind the stroke of the
clock. Life, good lady, takes an undignified pleasure in arranging these
petty shocks to the expectations, which we soon learn to dismiss with a
smile. The cold mutton and _ordinaire_ were excellent, and we had some
coffee and a cigarette on the piazza. The sun was setting far away
behind a hill on the other side of the creek. A soft sound came down the
valley from a remote flock of sheep. A little breeze sprang up and ran
tremulously about, shaking the tufted grass and the slim boughs of the
mesquites, and putting some question with a wistfully hopeful swish.
Plainly, one could be very much at home here. The visionary brunette had
evidently ranged herself, was living down the reputation of early vivid
experiences and successfully cultivating the domestic virtues.


II.


Six or eight years earlier, four young men had left New York on a
Galveston steamer, their departure being attended by such an assemblage
of young women that on the second day out their companions of the voyage
confided the supposition that it had been a "bridal party." That little
Spanish-American word ravaging our coasts and carrying off the pride of
the youth has to answer for many such bridal parties, whose tours have
been followed with pins and colored pencils and eyes more eager than
those of mothers-in-law. In a month or so the young men had pitched a
wall-tent within a day's ride of the Rio Grande, and were seriously
occupied in sacrificing each other's feelings on the altar of
experimental cookery, in herding sheep with the assistance of paper
novels, and in writing exceedingly long letters to the North. This
wall-tent was the larva of the ranch. But the arid southern country
proved inconvenient, and collecting their effects in a prairie-schooner
and driving their flocks before them, they effected a masterly change of
base, which brought them two hundred miles to the northward and set them
down in a delightful pasture-land, watered by three pretty creeks, near
one of which they erected an adobe hut. This solitary house on a broad
flat, an object of amazement to wandering hordes of cattle, was the
ranch during a most interesting period, and its thatched roof and
somewhat fetid walls became for the occupants overgrown with fine
clusters of association. Within a few miles of its site the present
village took shape.

The country was a frankly monotonous conformation of alternating hills
and valleys,--"divides" and "draws,"--with wide flats near the creeks.
Gulches, more or less deep, down the valley-lines of the draws, and
traversing the flats to the creeks,--the so-called _arroyos_,--were a
common physical feature. In the wet season they were running streams,
but for most of the year they were dry, with here and there a waterhole,
flowers and chaparral growing in them, and, at intervals, pecans. The
pecan-trees grew thickly along the borders of the creeks, while the
mesquites cloaked with gossamer wide portions of the flats; and here and
there in the valleys and on the sides of the hills the sombre,
self-enwrapped live-oaks stood about, like philosophers musing amid the
general lightness. Spanish-dagger, bear-grass, and persimmon-bushes
freckled the sides of the rocky divides with dark spots, and mistletoe
hung its fine green globes like unillumined lanterns in the branches of
the mesquites. Over the plains and slopes a sparse turf of various
grasses, differing in color and changing with the season, gave the airy
landscape its brilliant and versatile complexion. A dozen varieties of
cactus, portulaccas, geraniums, petunias, verbenas, scattered over the
prairie, morning-glories and sunflowers in the arroyos and along the
creeks, and many a flower nameless to the general, abounded. So, it
should be added, did in their season plover, snipe, ducks, and geese.

The business of the ranch was the antediluvian occupation of rearing and
shearing sheep, and to that end the village included a shearing-shed and
a large wool-house. Besides these there were three cottages and several
other buildings, among which one called the "ranch-house" was the focus
of the activity of the place, and, being also a survival from a
comparatively early day, was a somewhat characteristic affair. It was a
box-house, painted red, with a broad porch thatched with bear-grass, and
a saddle-shed butting up against it. The interior, barring a little
store at one end, was a single large room, bedroom, sitting-room,
office, furnished with home-made tables with blankets for cloths,
knocked-up chairs with cowhide seats and coyote-skin backs, deers'
antlers draped with "slickers" (Texan for the 'longshoreman's yellow
water-proof) and wide-brimmed "ten-dollar" hats, and at one end two
tiers of bunks, with leather cases for six-shooters nailed to their
sides. This room served for the abode of the storekeeper, for the
transaction of business, and for the accommodation of the perennial
casual guest. It was rude, but, especially of evenings about the lamp,
it had a marked air of pipe-and-tobacco comfort.

The little store was patronized by the cow-boy, so much abused with
sensational or picturesque intentions, and by the small farmers with
irrigation patches in the vicinity. It was likewise the resort of
Encarnacion and Tomas, and others their brethren, from the Mexican
village a few miles up the creek, or from isolated abiding-places round
about. Here they would come, and, rolling cigarettes of the brown paper
they affect and the eleemosynary tobacco open on the counter, to which
all were welcome (such were the amenities of shopping on the ranch),
they would lounge about, ever smiling and chattering in soft voices,
finally to say '_uenos dias_ with two bits' worth of bacon, or
corn-meal, or pink candy for the _chiquitas_. Here, too, would come
Tomasa, and, with even more than usual feminine zeal in matters of
dress, at once try on the ready-made calico gown she purchased, while
the store-keeper smoked his pipe and stroked his beard.

Excepting the cow-boys, the people composing the clientage of the store
were for the most part resident in one of two farm-settlements located
on the creek, about ten miles apart, one exclusively Mexican, the other
almost entirely "white." Besides these, the families of many of the
Mexican hands lived close by. These last were constantly assisting
conversation at the cottages with such incidents as the following:

The cook--a tall, gaunt negro of a mediaevally "intense" nature--came
in with an excited manner, followed by Madame Alguin, very much
troubled, wringing her hands, and dissolved in tears.

"Panchot's little boy," said the cook, "is killed."

We were naturally aghast. Little Panchot had been _colero_ at the recent
shearing.

"Is he dead?" we queried hoarsely.

"He was dead," replied the cook, with seriousness: "he is not dead now."

