"My signet--my signet--Oh! you mean that with the three monstrous
legs, which I supposed was devised as the most preposterous device, to
represent our most absurd Majesty of Man.--The signet--I have not seen
it since I gave it to Gibbon, my monkey, to play with.--He did whine
for it most piteously--I hope he has not gemmed the green breast of
ocean with my symbol of sovereignty!"

"Now, by Heaven," said the Countess, trembling, and colouring deeply
with anger, "it was your father's signet! the last pledge which he
sent, with his love to me, and his blessing to thee, the night before
they murdered him at Bolton!"

"Mother, dearest mother," said the Earl, startled out of his apathy,
and taking her hand, which he kissed tenderly, "I did but jest--the
signet is safe--Peveril knows that it is so.--Go fetch it, Julian, for
Heaven's sake--here are my keys--it is in the left-hand drawer of my
travelling cabinet--Nay, mother, forgive me--it was but a /mauvaise
plaisanterie/; only an ill-imagined jest, ungracious, and in bad
taste, I allow--but only one of Philip's follies. Look at me, dearest
mother, and forgive me."

The Countess turned her eyes towards him, from which the tears were
fast falling.

"Philip," she said, "you try me too unkindly, and too severely. If
times are changed, as I have heard you allege--if the dignity of rank,
and the high feelings of honour and duty, are now drowned in giddy
jests and trifling pursuits, let /me/ at least, who live secluded from
all others, die without perceiving the change which has happened, and,
above all, without perceiving it in mine own son. Let me not learn the
general prevalence of this levity, which laughs at every sense of
dignity or duty, through your personal disrespect--Let me not think
that when I die----"

"Speak nothing of it, mother," said the Earl, interrupting her
affectionately. "It is true, I cannot promise to be all my father and
his fathers were; for we wear silk vests for their steel coats, and
feathered beavers for their crested helmets. But believe me, though to
be an absolute Palmerin of England is not in my nature, no son ever
loved a mother more dearly, or would do more to oblige her. And that
you may own this, I will forthwith not only seal the warrants, to the
great endangerment of my precious fingers, but also read the same from
end to end, as well as the despatches thereunto appertaining."

A mother is easily appeased, even when most offended; and it was with
an expanding heart that the Countess saw her son's very handsome
features, while reading these papers, settle into an expression of
deep seriousness, such as they seldom wore. It seemed to her as if the
family likeness to his gallant but unfortunate father increased, when
the expression of their countenances became similar in gravity. The
Earl had no sooner perused the despatches, which he did with great
attention, than he rose and said, "Julian, come with me."

The Countess looked surprised. "I was wont to share your father's
counsels, my son," she said; "but do not think that I wish to intrude
myself upon yours. I am too well pleased to see you assume the power
and the duty of thinking for yourself, which is what I have so long
urged you to do. Nevertheless, my experience, who have been so long
administrator of your authority in Man, might not, I think, be
superfluous to the matter in hand."

"Hold me excused, dearest mother," said the Earl gravely. "The
interference was none of my seeking; had you taken your own course,
without consulting me, it had been well; but since I have entered on
the affair--and it appears sufficiently important--I must transact it
to the best of my own ability."

"Go, then, my son," said the Countess, "and may Heaven enlighten thee
with its counsel, since thou wilt have none of mine.--I trust that
you, Master Peveril, will remind him of what is fit for his own
honour; and that only a coward abandons his rights, and only a fool
trusts his enemies."

The Earl answered not, but, taking Peveril by the arm, led him up a
winding stair to his own apartment, and from thence into a projecting
turret, where, amidst the roar of waves and sea-mews' clang, he held
with him the following conversation:--

"Peveril, it is well I looked into these warrants. My mother queens it
at such a rate as may cost me not only my crown, which I care little
for, but perhaps my head, which, though others may think little of, I
would feel it an inconvenience to be deprived of."

"What on earth is the matter?" said Peveril, with considerable
anxiety.

"It seems," said the Earl of Derby, "that old England who takes a
frolicsome brain-fever once every two or three years, for the benefit
of her doctors, and the purification of the torpid lethargy brought on
by peace and prosperity, is now gone stark staring mad on the subject
of a real or supposed Popish plot. I read one programme on the
subject, by a fellow called Oates, and thought it the most absurd
foolery I ever perused. But that cunning fellow Shaftesbury, and some
others amongst the great ones, having taken it up, and are driving on
at such a rate as makes harness crack, and horses smoke for it. The
King, who has sworn never to kiss the pillow his father went to sleep
on, temporises, and gives way to the current; the Duke of York,
suspected and hated on account of his religion, is about to be driven
to the continent; several principal Catholic nobles are in the Tower
already; and the nation, like a bull at Tutbury-running, is persecuted
with so many inflammatory rumours and pestilent pamphlets, that she
has cocked her tail, flung up her heels, taken the bit betwixt her
teeth and is as furiously unmanageable as in the year 1642."

"All this you must have known already," said Peveril; "I wonder you
told me not of news so important."

"It would have taken long to tell," said the Earl; "moreover, I
desired to have you /solus/; thirdly, I was about to speak when my
mother entered; and, to conclude, it was no business of mine. But
these despatches of my politic mother's private correspondent put a
new face on the whole matter; for it seems some of the informers--a
trade which, having become a thriving one, is now pursued by many--
have dared to glance at the Countess herself as an agent in this same
plot--ay, and have found those that are willing enough to believe
their report."

"On mine honour," said Peveril, "you both take it with great coolness.
I think the Countess the more composed of the two; for, except her
movement hither, she exhibited no mark of alarm, and, moreover,
seemed no way more anxious to communicate the matter to your lordship
than decency rendered necessary."

"My good mother," said the Earl, "loves power, though it has cost her
dear. I wish I could truly say that my neglect of business is entirely
assumed in order to leave it in her hands, but that better motive
combines with natural indolence. But she seems to have feared I should
not think exactly like her in this emergency, and she was right in
supposing so."

"How comes the emergency upon you?" said Julian; "and what form does
the danger assume?"

"Marry, thus it is," said the Earl: "I need not bid you remember the
affair of Colonel Christian. That man, besides his widow, who is
possessed of large property--Dame Christian of Kirk Truagh, whom you
have often heard of, and perhaps seen--left a brother called Edward
Christian, whom you never saw at all. Now this brother--but I dare say
you know all about it."

"Not I, on my honour," said Peveril; "you know the Countess seldom or
never alludes to the subject."

"Why," replied the Earl, "I believe in her heart she is something
ashamed of that gallant act of royalty and supreme jurisdiction, the
consequences of which maimed my estate so cruelly.--Well, cousin, this
same Edward Christian was one of the dempsters at the time, and,
naturally enough, was unwilling to concur in the sentence which
adjudged his /aîné/ to be shot like a dog. My mother, who was then in
high force, and not to be controlled by any one, would have served the
dempster with the same sauce with which she dressed his brother, had
he not been wise enough to fly from the island. Since that time, the
thing has slept on all hands; and though we knew that Dempster
Christian made occasionally secret visits to his friends in the
island, along with two or three other Puritans of the same stamp, and
particularly a prick-eared rogue, called Bridgenorth, brother-in-law
to the deceased, yet my mother, thank Heaven, has hitherto had the
sense to connive at them, though, for some reason or other, she holds
this Bridgenorth in especial disfavour."

"And why," said Peveril, forcing himself to speak, in order to conceal
the very unpleasant surprise which he felt, "why does the Countess now
depart from so prudent a line of conduct?"

"You must know the case is now different. The rogues are not satisfied
with toleration--they would have supremacy. They have found friends in
the present heat of the popular mind. My mother's name, and especially
that of her confessor, Aldrick the Jesuit, have been mentioned in this
beautiful maze of a plot, which if any such at all exists, she knows
as little of as you or I. However, she is a Catholic, and that is
enough; and I have little doubt, that if the fellows could seize on
our scrap of a kingdom here, and cut all our throats, they would have
the thanks of the present House of Commons, as willingly as old
Christian had those of the Rump, for a similar service."

"From whence did you receive all this information?" said Peveril,
again speaking, though by the same effort which a man makes who talks
in his sleep.

"Aldrick has seen the Duke of York in secret, and his Royal Highness,
who wept while he confessed his want of power to protect his friends--
and it is no trifle will wring tears from him--told him to send us
information that we should look to our safety, for that Dempster
Christian and Bridgenorth were in the island, with secret and severe
orders; that they had formed a considerable party there, and were
likely to be owned and protected in anything they might undertake
against us. The people of Ramsey and Castletown are unluckily
discontented about some new regulation of the imposts; and to tell you
the truth, though I thought yesterday's sudden remove a whim of my
mother's, I am almost satisfied they would have blockaded us in Rushin
Castle, where we could not have held out for lack of provisions. Here
we are better supplied, and, as we are on our guard, it is likely the
intended rising will not take place."

"And what is to be done in this emergency?" said Peveril.

"That is the very question, my gentle coz," answered the Earl. "My
mother sees but one way of going to work, and that is by royal
authority. Here are the warrants she had prepared, to search for,
take, and apprehend the bodies of Edward Christian and Robert--no,
Ralph Bridgenorth, and bring them to instant trial. No doubt, she
would soon have had them in the Castle court, with a dozen of the old
matchlocks levelled against them--that is her way of solving all
sudden difficulties."

"But in which, I trust, you do not acquiesce, my lord," answered
Peveril, whose thoughts instantly reverted to Alice, if they could
ever be said to be absent from her.

"Truly I acquiesce in no such matter," said the Earl. "William
Christian's death cost me a fair half of my inheritance. I have no
fancy to fall under the displeasure of my royal brother, King Charles,
for a new escapade of the same kind. But how to pacify my mother, I
know not. I wish the insurrection would take place, and then, as we
are better provided than they can be, we might knock the knaves on the
head; and yet, since they began the fray, we should keep the law on
our side."

"Were it not better," said Peveril, "if by any means these men could
be induced to quit the island?"

"Surely," replied the Earl; "but that will be no easy matter--they are
stubborn on principle, and empty threats will not move them. This
stormblast in London is wind in their sails, and they will run their
length, you may depend on it. I have sent orders, however, to clap up
the Manxmen upon whose assistance they depended, and if I can find the
two worthies themselves, here are sloops enough in the harbour--I will
take the freedom to send them on a pretty distant voyage, and I hope
matters will be settled before they return to give an account of it."

At this moment a soldier belonging to the garrison approached the two
young men, with many bows and tokens of respect. "How now, friend?"
said the Earl to him. "Leave off thy courtesies, and tell thy
business."

The man, who was a native islander, answered in Manx, that he had a
letter for his honour, Master Julian Peveril. Julian snatched the
billet hastily, and asked whence it came.

"It was delivered to him by a young woman," the soldier replied, "who
had given him a piece of money to deliver it into Master Peveril's own
hand."

"Thou art a lucky fellow, Julian," said the Earl. "With that grave
brow of thine, and thy character for sobriety and early wisdom, you
set the girls a-wooing, without waiting till they are asked; whilst I,
their drudge and vassal, waste both language and leisure, without
getting a kind word or look, far less a billet-doux."

This the young Earl said with a smile of conscious triumph, as in fact
he valued himself not a little upon the interest which he supposed
himself to possess with the fair sex.

Meanwhile the letter impressed on Peveril a different train of
thoughts from what his companion apprehended. It was in Alice's hand,
and contained these few words:--


 "I fear what I am going to do is wrong; but I must see you. Meet me
  at noon at Goddard Crovan's Stone, with as much secrecy as you
  may."


The letter was signed only with the initials A. B.; but Julian had no
difficulty in recognising the handwriting, which he had often seen,
and which was remarkably beautiful. He stood suspended, for he saw the
difficulty and impropriety of withdrawing himself from the Countess
and his friend at this moment of impending danger; and yet, to neglect
this invitation was not to be thought of. He paused in the utmost
perplexity.

"Shall I read your riddle?" said the Earl. "Go where love calls you--I
will make an excuse to my mother--only, most grave anchorite, be
hereafter more indulgent to the failings of others than you have been
hitherto, and blaspheme not the power of the little deity."

"Nay, but, Cousin Derby--" said Peveril, and stopped short, for he
really knew not what to say. Secured himself by a virtuous passion
from the contagious influence of the time, he had seen with regret his
noble kinsman mingle more in its irregularities than he approved of,
and had sometimes played the part of a monitor. Circumstances seemed
at present to give the Earl a right of retaliation. He kept his eye
fixed on his friend, as if he waited till he should complete his
sentence, and at length exclaimed, "What! cousin, quite /à-la-mort!/
Oh, most judicious Julian! Oh, most precise Peveril! have you bestowed
so much wisdom on me that you have none left for yourself? Come, be
frank--tell me name and place--or say but the colour of the eyes of
the most emphatic she--or do but let me have the pleasure to hear thee
say, 'I love!'--confess one touch of human frailty--conjugate the verb
/amo/, and I will be a gentle schoolmaster, and you shall have, as
father Richards used to say, when we were under his ferule, '/licentia
exeundi/.'"

"Enjoy your pleasant humour at my expense, my lord," said Peveril; "I
fairly will confess thus much, that I would fain, if it consisted with
my honour and your safety, have two hours at my own disposal; the more
especially as the manner in which I shall employ them may much concern
the safety of the island."

"Very likely, I dare say," answered the Earl, still laughing. "No
doubt you are summoned out by some Lady Politic Wouldbe of the isle,
to talk over some of the breast-laws: but never mind--go, and go
speedily, that you may return as quickly as possible. I expect no
immediate explosion of this grand conspiracy. When the rogues see us
on our guard, they will be cautious how they break out. Only, once
more make haste."

Peveril thought this last advice was not to be neglected; and, glad to
extricate himself from the raillery of his cousin, walked down towards
the gate of the Castle, meaning to cross over to the village, and
there take horse at the Earl's stables, for the place of rendezvous.


                             CHAPTER XVI

         /Acasto./--Can she not speak?
         /Oswald./--If speech be only in accented sounds,
         Framed by the tongue and lips, the maiden's dumb;
         But if by quick and apprehensive look,
         By motion, sign, and glance, to give each meaning,
         Express as clothed in language, be term'd speech,
         She hath that wondrous faculty; for her eyes,
         Like the bright stars of heaven, can hold discourse,
         Though it be mute and soundless.
                                                   --OLD PLAY.

At the head of the first flight of steps which descended towards the
difficult and well-defended entrance of the Castle of Holm-Peel,
Peveril was met and stopped by the Countess's train-bearer. This
little creature--for she was of the least and slightest size of
womankind--was exquisitely well formed in all her limbs, which the
dress she usually wore (a green silk tunic, of a peculiar form) set
off to the best advantage. Her face was darker than the usual hue of
Europeans; and the profusion of long and silken hair, which, when she
undid the braids in which she commonly wore it, fell down almost to
her ankles, was also rather a foreign attribute. Her countenance
resembled a most beautiful miniature; and there was a quickness,
decision, and fire, in Fenella's look, and especially in her eyes,
which was probably rendered yet more alert and acute, because, through
the imperfection of her other organs, it was only by sight that she
could obtain information of what passed around her.

The pretty mute was mistress of many little accomplishments, which the
Countess had caused to be taught to her in compassion for her forlorn
situation, and which she learned with the most surprising quickness.
Thus, for example, she was exquisite in the use of the needle, and so
ready and ingenious a draughtswoman, that, like the ancient Mexicans,
she sometimes made a hasty sketch with her pencil the means of
conveying her ideas, either by direct or emblematical representation.
Above all, in the art of ornamental writing, much studied at that
period, Fenella was so great a proficient, as to rival the fame of
Messrs. Snow, Shelley, and other masters of the pen, whose copybooks,
preserved in the libraries of the curious, still show the artists
smiling on the frontispiece in all the honours of flowing gowns and
full-bottomed wigs, to the eternal glory of caligraphy.

The little maiden had, besides these accomplishments, much ready wit
and acuteness of intellect. With Lady Derby, and with the two young
gentlemen, she was a great favourite, and used much freedom in
conversing with them, by means of a system of signs which had been
gradually established amongst them, and which served all ordinary
purposes of communication.

But, though happy in the indulgence and favour of her mistress, from
whom indeed she was seldom separate, Fenella was by no means a
favourite with the rest of the household. In fact, it seemed that her
temper, exasperated perhaps by a sense of her misfortune, was by no
means equal to her abilities. She was very haughty in her demeanour,
even towards the upper domestics, who in that establishment were of a
much higher rank and better birth than in the families of the nobility
in general. These often complained, not only of her pride and reserve,
but of her high and irascible temper and vindictive disposition. Her
passionate propensity had been indeed idly encouraged by the young
men, and particularly by the Earl, who sometimes amused himself with
teasing her, that he might enjoy the various singular motions and
murmurs by which she expressed her resentment. Towards him, these were
of course only petulant and whimsical indications of pettish anger.
But when she was angry with others of inferior degree--before whom she
did not control herself--the expression of her passion, unable to
display itself in language, had something even frightful, so singular
were the tones, contortions, and gestures, to which she had recourse.
The lower domestics, to whom she was liberal almost beyond her
apparent means, observed her with much deference and respect, but much
more from fear than from any real attachment; for the caprices of her
temper displayed themselves even in her gifts; and those who most
frequently shared her bounty, seemed by no means assured of the
benevolence of the motives which dictated her liberality.

All these peculiarities led to a conclusion consonant with Manx
superstition. Devout believers in all the legends of fairies so dear
to the Celtic tribes, the Manx people held it for certainty that the
elves were in the habit of carrying off mortal children before
baptism, and leaving in the cradle of the new born babe one of their
own brood, which was almost always imperfect in some one or other of
the organs proper to humanity. Such a being they conceived Fenella to
be; and the smallness of her size, her dark complexion, her long locks
of silken hair, the singularity of her manners and tones, as well as
the caprices of her temper, were to their thinking all attributes of
the irritable, fickle, and dangerous race from which they supposed her
to be sprung. And it seemed, that although no jest appeared to offend
her more than when Lord Derby called her in sport the Elfin Queen, or
otherwise alluded to her supposed connection with "the pigmy folk,"
yet still her perpetually affecting to wear the colour of green,
proper to the fairies, as well as some other peculiarities, seemed
voluntarily assumed by her, in order to countenance the superstition,
perhaps because it gave her more authority among the lower orders.

Many were the tales circulated respecting the Countess's /Elf/, as
Fenella was currently called in the island; and the malcontents of the
stricter persuasion were convinced, that no one but a Papist and a
malignant would have kept near her person a creature of such doubtful
origin. They conceived that Fenella's deafness and dumbness were only
towards those of this world, and that she had been heard talking, and
singing, and laughing most elvishly, with the invisibles of her own
race. They alleged, also, that she had a /Double/, a sort of
apparition resembling her, which slept in the Countess's ante-room, or
bore her train, or wrought in her cabinet, while the real Fenella
joined the song of the mermaids on the moonlight sands, or the dance
of the fairies in the haunted valley of Glenmoy, or on the heights of
Snawfell and Barool. The sentinels, too, would have sworn they had
seen the little maiden trip past them in their solitary night walks,
without their having it in their power to challenge her, any more than
if they had been as mute as herself. To all this mass of absurdities
the better informed paid no more attention than to the usual idle
exaggerations of the vulgar, which so frequently connect that which is
unusual with what is supernatural.

Such, in form and habits, was the little female, who, holding in her
hand a small old-fashioned ebony rod, which might have passed for a
divining wand, confronted Julian on the top of the flight of steps
which led down the rock from the Castle court. We ought to observe,
that as Julian's manner to the unfortunate girl had been always
gentle, and free from those teasing jests in which his gay friend
indulged, with less regard to the peculiarity of her situation and
feelings; so Fenella, on her part, had usually shown much greater
deference to him than to any of the household, her mistress, the
Countess, always excepted.

On the present occasion, planting herself in the very midst of the
narrow descent, so as to make it impossible for Peveril to pass by
her, she proceeded to put him to the question by a series of gestures,
which we will endeavour to describe. She commenced by extending her
hand slightly, accompanied with the sharp inquisitive look which
served her as a note of interrogation. This was meant as an inquiry
whether he was going to a distance. Julian, in reply, extended his arm
more than half, to intimate that the distance was considerable.
Fenella looked grave, shook her head, and pointed to the Countess's
window, which was visible from the spot where they stood. Peveril
smiled, and nodded, to intimate there was no danger in quitting her
mistress for a short space. The little maiden next touched an eagle's
feather which she wore in her hair, a sign which she usually employed
to designate the Earl, and then looked inquisitively at Julian once
more, as if to say, "Goes he with you?" Peveril shook his head, and,
somewhat wearied by these interrogatories, smiled, and made an effort
to pass. Fenella frowned, struck the end of her ebony rod
perpendicularly on the ground, and again shook her head, as if
opposing his departure. But finding that Julian persevered in his
purpose, she suddenly assumed another and milder mood, held him by the
skirt of his cloak with one hand, and raised the other in an imploring
attitude, whilst every feature of her lively countenance was composed
into the like expression of supplication; and the fire of the large
dark eyes, which seemed in general so keen and piercing as almost to
over-animate the little sphere to which they belonged, seemed
quenched, for the moment, in the large drops which hung on her long
eyelashes, but without falling.

Julian Peveril was far from being void of sympathy towards the poor
girl, whose motives in opposing his departure appeared to be her
affectionate apprehension for her mistress's safety. He endeavoured to
reassure by smiles, and, at the same time, by such signs as he could
devise, to intimate that there was no danger, and that he would return
presently; and having succeeded in extricating his cloak from her
grasp, and in passing her on the stair, he began to descend the steps
as speedily as he could, in order to avoid farther importunity.

But with activity much greater than his, the dumb maiden hastened to
intercept him, and succeeded by throwing herself, at the imminent risk
of life and limb, a second time into the pass which he was descending,
so as to interrupt his purpose. In order to achieve this, she was
obliged to let herself drop a considerable height from the wall of a
small flanking battery, where two patereroes were placed to scour the
pass, in case any enemy could have mounted so high. Julian had scarce
time to shudder at her purpose, as he beheld her about to spring from
the parapet, ere, like a thing of gossamer, she stood light and
uninjured on the rocky platform below. He endeavoured, by the gravity
of his look and gesture, to make her understand how much he blamed her
rashness; but the reproof, though obviously quite intelligible, was
entirely thrown away. A hasty wave of her hand intimated how she
contemned the danger and the remonstrance; while, at the same time,
she instantly resumed, with more eagerness than before, the earnest
and impressive gestures by which she endeavoured to detain him in the
fortress.

Julian was somewhat staggered by her pertinacity. "Is it possible," he
thought, "that any danger can approach the Countess, of which this
poor maiden has, by the extreme acuteness of her observation, obtained
knowledge which has escaped others?"

He signed to Fenella hastily to give him the tablets and the pencil
which she usually carried with her, and wrote on them the question,
"Is there danger near to your mistress, that you thus stop me?"

"There is danger around the Countess," was the answer instantly
written down; "but there is much more in your own purpose."

"How?--what?--what know you of my purpose?" said Julian, forgetting,
in his surprise, that the party he addressed had neither ear to
comprehend, nor voice to reply to uttered language. She had regained
her book in the meantime, and sketched, with a rapid pencil, on one of
the leaves, a scene which she showed to Julian. To his infinite
surprise he recognised Goddard Crovan's Stone, a remarkable monument,
of which she had given the outline with sufficient accuracy; together
with a male and female figure, which, though only indicated by a few
slight touches of the pencil, bore yet, he thought, some resemblance
to himself and Alice Bridgenorth.

When he had gazed on the sketch for an instant with surprise, Fenella
took the book from his hand, laid her finger upon the drawing, and
slowly and sternly shook her head, with a frown which seemed to
prohibit the meeting which was there represented. Julian, however,
though disconcerted, was in no shape disposed to submit to the
authority of his monitress. By whatever means she, who so seldom
stirred from the Countess's apartment, had become acquainted with a
secret which he thought entirely his own, he esteemed it the more
necessary to keep the appointed rendezvous, that he might learn from
Alice, if possible, how the secret had transpired. He had also formed
the intention of seeking out Bridgenorth; entertaining an idea that a
person so reasonable and calm as he had shown himself in their late
conference, might be persuaded, when he understood that the Countess
was aware of his intrigues, to put an end to her danger and his own,
by withdrawing from the island. And could he succeed in this point, he
should at once, he thought, render a material benefit to the father of
his beloved Alice--remove the Earl from his state of anxiety--save the
Countess from a second time putting her feudal jurisdiction in
opposition to that of the Crown of England--and secure quiet
possession of the island to her and her family.

