Here an important observation must be made, showing the state of
geographical knowledge at this period: viz. that Columbus now
believed himself to have arrived at Asia, Cipango being the name
given by Marco Polo to Japan. This error of the admiral, shared in
by all his companions, was not rectified for many years afterwards,
and thus, as we have already remarked, the great navigator after
four successive voyages to the islands, died, without knowing that
he had discovered a new world. It is beyond doubt that the sailors
of Columbus, and Columbus himself, imagined that they had arrived,
during that night of the 12th October, 1492, either at Japan, or
China, or the Indies. This is the reason why America so long bore
the name of the "Western Indies," and why the aborigines of this
continent, in Brazil and in Mexico, as well as in the United States,
are still classed under the general appellation of "Indians."

So Columbus dreamt only of reaching the shores of Japan. He coasted
along San Salvador, exploring its western side. The natives, running
down to the shore, offered him water and cassava bread, made from
the root of a plant called the "Yucca." Several times the admiral
landed upon the coast at different points, and with a sad want of
humanity, he carried away some of the natives, that he might take
them with him to Spain. Poor men! already the strangers began to
tear them from their country; it would not be long before they began
to sell them! At last the caravels lost sight of San Salvador, and
were again upon the wide ocean.

Fortune had favoured Columbus in thus guiding him into the centre of
one of the most beautiful archipelagos which the world contains.
These new lands which he discovered were as a casket of precious
stones, which needed only to be opened, and the hands of the
discoverer were full of treasures. On the 15th October, at sunset,
the flotilla came to anchor near the western point of a second
island, at a distance of only fifteen miles from San Salvador; this
island was named Conception; on the morrow the admiral landed upon
the shore, having his men well armed for fear of surprise; the
natives, however, proved to be of the same race as those of San
Salvador, and gave a kind welcome to the Spaniards. A south-easterly
wind having arisen, Columbus soon put to sea again, and twenty-seven
miles further westward, he discovered a third island, which he
called Fernandina, but which now goes by the name of the Great Exuma.
All night they lay-to, and next day, the 17th October, large native
canoes came off to the vessels. The relations with the natives were
excellent, the savages peacefully exchanging fruit, and small balls
of cotton for glass beads, tambourines, needles, which took their
fancy greatly, and some molasses, of which they appeared very fond.
These natives of Fernandina wore some clothing, and appeared
altogether more civilized than those of San Salvador; they inhabited
houses made in the shape of tents and having high chimneys; the
interiors of these dwellings were remarkably clean and well kept.
The western side of the island, with its deeply indented shore,
formed a grand natural harbour, capable of containing a hundred
vessels.

But Fernandina did not afford the riches so much coveted by the
Spaniards as spoils to take back to Europe; there were no gold-mines
here; the natives who were on board the flotilla always spoke,
however, of a larger island, situated to the south and called
Saometo, in which the precious metal was found. Columbus steered in
the direction indicated, and during the night of Friday, the 19th of
October, he cast anchor near this Saometo, calling it Isabella; in
modern maps it goes by the name of Long Island. According to the
natives of San Salvador, there was a powerful king in this island,
but the admiral for several days awaited in vain the advent of this
great personage; he did not show himself. The island of Isabella was
beautiful of aspect, with its clear lakes, and thick forests; the
Spaniards were never tired of admiring the new type of nature
presented to their view, and of which the intense verdure was
wonderful to European eyes. Parroquets in innumerable flocks were
flying amongst the thick trees, and great lizards, doubtless iguanas,
glided with rapid movements in the high grass. The inhabitants of
the island fled at first at the sight of the foreigners, but soon
becoming bolder, they trafficked with the Spaniards in the
productions of their country.

Still Columbus held firmly to the notion of reaching the shores of
Japan. The natives had mentioned to him a large island a little to
the west which they called Cuba, and this the admiral supposed must
form part of the kingdom of Cipango; he felt little doubt but that
he would soon arrive at the town of Quinsay, or Hang-tchoo-foo,
formerly the capital of China. With this object, as soon as the
winds permitted, the fleet weighed anchor. On Thursday, the 25th of
October, seven or eight islands lying in a straight line were
sighted, these were probably the Mucaras. Columbus did not stop to
visit them, and on the Sunday he came in sight of Cuba. The caravels
were moored in a river, to which the Spaniards gave the name of San
Salvador; after a short stay, they sailed again towards the west,
and entered a harbour situated at the mouth of a large river which
was afterwards called the harbour of Las Nuevitas del Principe.

Numerous palm-trees were growing upon the shores of the island,
having leaves so broad that only one was required for roofing a
native hut. The natives had fled at the approach of the Spaniards,
who found upon the shore idols of female form, tame birds, bones of
animals, also dumb dogs, and some fishing instruments. The Cuban
savages, however, were ready to be enticed like the others, and they
consented to barter their goods with the Spaniards. Columbus
believed himself to be now on the mainland, and only a few leagues
from Hang-tchoo-foo; this idea being so rooted in his mind, that he
even busied himself in despatching some presents to the great Khan
of China. On the 2nd of November he desired one of the officers of
his ship, and a Jew who could speak Hebrew, Chaldee, and Arabic, to
set out to seek this native monarch. The ambassadors, carrying with
them strings of beads, and having six days given to them for the
fulfilment of their mission, started, taking a route leading towards
the interior of this so-called continent.

In the meantime, Columbus explored for nearly six miles a splendid
river which flowed beneath the shade of woods of odoriferous trees.
The inhabitants freely bartered their goods with the Spaniards, and
frequently mentioned to them a place named Bohio, where gold and
pearls might be obtained in abundance. They added that men lived
there who had dogs' heads, and who fed upon human flesh.

The admiral's envoys returned to the port on the 6th of November,
after a four days' absence. Two days had sufficed to bring them to a
village composed of about fifty huts, where they were received with
every mark of respect; the natives kissing their feet and hands, and
taking them for deities descended from the skies. Among other
details of native customs, they reported that both men and women
smoked tobacco by means of a forked pipe, drawing up the smoke
through their nostrils. These savages were acquainted with the
secret of obtaining fire by rubbing briskly two pieces of wood
against each other. Cotton was found in large quantities in the
houses, made up into the form of tents, one of these containing as
much as 11,000 pounds of the material. As to the grand khan they saw
no vestige of him.

Another consequence of the error of Columbus must be noticed here,
one which, according to Irving, changed the whole series of his
discoveries. He believed himself to be on the coast of Asia, and
therefore looked upon Cuba as a portion of that continent. In
consequence, he never thought of making the tour of Cuba, but
decided on returning towards the east. Now, had he not been deceived
on this occasion, and had he continued to follow the same direction
as at first, the results of his enterprise would have been greatly
modified. He might then have drifted towards Florida at the
south-eastern point of North America, or he might have run direct to
Mexico. In this latter case, instead of ignorant and savage natives,
what would he have found? The inhabitants of the great Aztec Empire,
of the half-civilized kingdom of Montezuma. There he would have seen
towns, armies, enormous wealth, and his rôle would no doubt have
been the same as that afterwards played by Fernando Cortès. But it
was not to be thus, and the admiral, persevering in his mistake,
directed his flotilla towards the east, weighing anchor on the 12th
of November, 1492.

Columbus tacked in and out along the Cuban coast; he saw the two
mountains--Cristal and Moa; he explored a harbour to which he gave
the name of Puerto del Principe, and an archipelago which he called
the Sea of Nuestra Señora. Each night the fishermen's fires were
seen upon the numerous islands, the inhabitants of which lived upon
spiders and huge worms. Several times the Spaniards landed upon
different points of the coast, and there planted the cross as a sign
of taking possession of the country. The natives often spoke to the
admiral about a certain island of Babeque, where gold abounded, and
thither Columbus resolved to go, but Martin-Alonzo Pinzon, the
captain of the _Pinta_, the best sailer of the three ships, was
beforehand with him, and at day-break on the 21st of November, he
had completely disappeared from sight. The admiral was very angry at
this separation, his feelings on the subject appearing plainly in
his narrative, where he says, "Pinzon has said and done to me many
like things." Continuing his exploration of the coast of Cuba,
Columbus discovered the Bay of Moa, the Point of Mangle, Point Vaez,
and the harbour of Barracoa, but nowhere did he meet with cannibals,
although the huts of the natives were often to be seen adorned with
human skulls, a sight which appeared to give great satisfaction to
the islanders on board the fleet. On the following days, they saw
the Boma River, and the caravels, doubling the point of Los Azules,
found themselves upon the eastern part of the island, whose coast
they had now reconnoitred for a distance of 375 miles. But Columbus
instead of continuing his route to the south turned off to the east,
and on the 5th of December perceived a large island, called by the
natives Bohio. This was Hayti, or San Domingo.

In the evening, the _Nina_ by the admiral's orders, entered a
harbour which was named Port Mary; it is situated at the
north-western extremity of the island, and, with the cape near which
it lies, is now called St. Nicholas. The next day the Spaniards
discovered a number of headlands, and an islet, called Tortuga
Island. Everywhere on the appearance of the ships, the Indian canoes
took to flight. The island, along which they were now coasting,
appeared very large and very high, from which latter peculiarity it
gained, later on, its name of Hayti, which signifies High Land. The
coast was explored by the Spaniards as far as Mosquito Bay; its
natural features, its plains and hills, its plants and the birds
which fluttered amongst the beautiful trees of the island, all
recalled to the memory the landscapes of Castille, and for this
reason Columbus named it Hispaniola, or Spanish Island. The
inhabitants were extremely timid and distrustful; they fled away
into the interior and no communication could be held with them. Some
sailors, however, succeeded in capturing a young woman, whom they
carried on board with them. She was young and rather pretty. The
admiral gave her, besides rings and beads, some clothing, of which
she had great need, and after most generous treatment, he sent her
back to shore.

This good conduct had the result of taming the natives, and the next
day, when nine of the sailors, well armed, ventured as far as
sixteen miles inland, they were received with respect, the savages
running to them in crowds, and offering them everything which their
country produced. The sailors returned to the ships enchanted with
their excursion. The interior of the island they had found rich in
cotton plants, mastic-trees and aloes, while a fine river, named
afterwards the Three Rivers, flowed gently along its limpid course.
On December 15th, Columbus again set sail, and was carried by the
wind towards Tortuga Island, upon which he saw a navigable stream of
water, and a valley so beautiful that he called it the Vale of
Paradise. The day following, having tacked into a deep gulf, an
Indian was seen who, notwithstanding the violence of the wind, was
skilfully manoeuvring a light canoe. This Indian was invited to come
on board, was loaded with presents by the admiral, and then put on
shore again, at one of the harbours of Hispaniola, now called the
Puerto de Paz. This kindness tended to attach the natives to the
admiral, and from that day they came in numbers round the caravels;
their king came with them, a strong, vigorous, and somewhat stout
young man of twenty years of age; he was naked, like his subjects of
both sexes, who showed him much respect, but with no appearance of
servility. Columbus ordered royal honours to be rendered to him, and
in return, the king, or rather cacique, informed the admiral that
the provinces to the east abounded in gold.

[Illustration: Columbus named it the Vale of Paradise.]

Next day another cacique arrived, offering to place all the
treasures of his country at the service of the Spaniards. He was
present at a fête in honour of the Virgin Mary, that Columbus caused
to be celebrated with great pomp on board his vessel, which was
gaily dressed with flags on the occasion. The cacique dined at the
admiral's table, apparently enjoying the repast; after he had
himself tasted of the different viands and beverages, he sent the
dishes and goblets to the members of his suite; he had good manners,
spoke little, but showed great politeness. After the feast, he gave
the admiral some thin leaves of gold, while Columbus, on his side,
presented him with some coins, upon which were engraved the
portraits of Ferdinand and Isabella, and after explaining to him by
signs that these were the representations of the most powerful
sovereigns in the world, he caused the royal banners of Castille to
be displayed before the savage prince. When night fell, the cacique
retired, highly delighted with his visit; and on his departure he
was saluted with a salvo of artillery. On the day following, the
crews before quitting this hospitable coast, set up a large cross in
the middle of the little town. In issuing from the gulf formed by
Tortuga Island and Hispaniola, they discovered several harbours,
capes, bays, and rivers; at the point of Limbé, a small island which
Columbus named St. Thomas, and finally, an enormous harbour safe and
sheltered, hidden between the island and the Bay of Acul, and to
which access was given by a canal surrounded by high mountains
covered with trees.

The admiral often disembarked upon this coast, the natives receiving
him as an ambassador from heaven, and imploring him to remain among
them. Columbus gave them quantities of little bells, brass rings,
glass beads, and other toys, which they eagerly accepted. A cacique
named Guacanagari, reigning over the province of Marien, sent to the
admiral a belt adorned with the figure of an animal with large ears,
of which the nose and tongue were made of beaten gold. Gold appeared
to be abundant in the island, and the natives soon brought a
considerable quantity of it to the strangers. The inhabitants of
this part of Hispaniola seemed to be superior in intelligence and
appearance to those of that portion of the island which had been
first visited; in the opinion of Columbus, the paint, red, black, or
white, with which the natives covered their bodies, served to
protect them from sunstroke. The huts of these savages were pretty
and well built. Upon Columbus questioning them as to the country
which produced gold, they always indicated one towards the east, a
country which they called Cibao, and which the admiral continued to
identify with Cipango or Japan.

On Christmas Day a serious accident occurred to the admiral's
caravel, the first damage sustained in this hitherto prosperous
voyage. An inexperienced steersman was at the helm of the
_Santa-Maria_ during an excursion outside the Gulf of St. Thomas;
night came on, and he allowed the vessel to be caught in some
currents which threw her upon the rocks; the caravel grounded and
her rudder stuck fast. The admiral, awakened by the shock, ran upon
deck; he ordered an anchor to be fastened forward, by which the ship
might warp herself off and so float again. The master and some of
the sailors charged with the execution of this order, jumped into
the long boat, but seized with a sudden panic, they rowed away in
haste to the _Nina_. Meantime the tide fell, and the _Santa-Maria_
ran further aground; it became necessary to cut away the masts to
lighten her, and soon it was evident that everything on board must
be removed to the other ship. The cacique Guacanagari, quite
understanding the dangerous situation of the caravel, came with his
brothers and other relations, accompanied by a great number of the
Indians, and helped in unlading the ship. Thanks to this prince, not
a single article of the cargo was stolen, and during the whole night
armed natives kept watch around the stores of provisions.

The next day Guacanagari went on board the _Nina_, to console the
admiral, and to place all his own possessions at his disposal, at
the same time offering him a repast of bread, doe's flesh, fish,
roots, and fruit. Columbus, much moved by these tokens of friendship,
formed the design of founding an establishment on this island. With
this purpose in view, he addressed himself to gain the hearts of the
Indians by presents and kindness, and wishing also to give them an
adequate notion of his power, he ordered the discharge of an
arquebuse and a small cannon, of which the reports frightened the
poor savages terribly. On December 26th, the Spaniards commenced the
construction of a fort upon this part of the coast, the intention of
the admiral being to leave there a certain number of men, with a
year's provision of bread, wine, and seed, and to give them the long
boat belonging to the _Santa-Maria_. The works at the fort were
pushed forward with rapidity. It was also on the 26th that they
received news of the _Pinta_, which had been separated from the
flotilla since November 21st. The natives announced that she was at
anchor in a river at the extreme point of the island, but a canoe
despatched by Guacanagari returned without having found her. Then
Columbus, not wishing to continue his explorations under the present
conditions, since the loss of the _Santa-Maria_, which could not be
floated again, left him but one caravel, decided to return to Spain,
and preparations for the departure began.

On the 2nd of January Columbus caused his soldiers to act a mimic
battle, greatly to the admiration of the cacique and his subjects.
Afterwards the admiral chose out thirty-nine men to form the
garrison of the fortress during his absence, naming Rodrigo de
Escovedo as their commander. The greater part of the cargo of the
_Santa-Maria_ was to be left behind with them, for their year's
provision. Amongst these first colonists of the New World were
included a writer, an alguazil, a cooper, a doctor, and a tailor.
These Spaniards were charged with the mission of seeking for
gold-mines, and of choosing a suitable site for the building of a
town. On the 3rd of January, after solemn leave-takings of the
cacique and the new colonists, the _Nina_ weighed anchor and sailed
out of the harbour. An island was soon discovered, having upon it a
very high mountain; to this was given the name of Monte-Christi.
Columbus had already sailed for two days along the coast, when he
was aware of the approach of the _Pinta_, and very soon her captain,
Martin Alonzo Pinzon, came on board the _Nina_, endeavouring to
excuse his conduct. The real truth was that Pinzon had taken the
lead with the view of being the first to reach the pretended island
of Babeque, of which the riches had been described in glowing
colours by the natives. The admiral was very ready to accept the bad
reasons given him by Captain Pinzon, and learnt from him that the
_Pinta_ had done nothing but coast along the shores of Hispaniola,
without discovering any new island.

On the 7th of January the ships lay to, to stop a leak which had
sprung in the hold of the _Nina_. Columbus profited by this delay to
explore a wide river, situated about three miles from Monte-Christi,
and which carried so much gold-dust along with it, that he gave it
the name of the Golden River. The admiral would have desired to
visit this part of Hispaniola with greater care, but the crews were
in haste to return home, and under the influence of the brothers
Pinzon, began to murmur against his authority.

On the 9th of January the caravels set sail and steered towards the
east-south-east, skirting the coast, and distinguishing by names
even its smallest sinuosities; of such were point Isabella, the cape
of La Roca, French Cape, Cape Cabron, and the Bay of Samana,
situated at the eastern extremity of the island, where was a port,
in which the fleet, being becalmed, came to anchor. At first the
relations between the foreigners and the natives were excellent, but
a change was suddenly perceived, the savages ceasing to barter, and
making some hostile demonstrations, which left no doubt of the bad
intentions entertained by them. On the 13th of January the savages
made a sudden and unexpected attack upon the Spaniards, who, however,
put a bold face on the matter, and by the aid of their weapons, put
their enemies to flight after a few minutes' combat. Thus, for the
first time, the blood of the Indian flowed beneath the hand of the
European.

