During the pauses in the talk Oliver's eyes wandered 
around the room, falling on the queer paper
lining the walls--hunting-scenes, with red-coated
fox-hunters leaping five-barred gates; on the side-
board covered with silver, but bare of a decanter--
only a pitcher filled with cider which Hopeful Prime,
the servant, a woman of forty in spectacles, and who
took part in the conversation, brought from the cellar; 
and finally on a family portrait that hung above
the fireplace. A portrait was always a loadstone to
Oliver.

Mrs. Grant had been watching his glance.

"That's Mr. Grant's great-uncle--old Governor
Shaw," she said, with a pleased smile; "and the next
one to it is Margaret's great-grandmother This
one--" and she turned partly in her chair and
pointed to a face Oliver thought he had seen before,
where, he couldn't remember--"is John Quincy
Adams. He was my father's most intimate friend,"
and a triumphant expression overspread her face.

Oliver smiled, too, inwardly, to himself. The
talk, to his great surprise, reminded him of Kennedy 
Square. Family portraits were an inexhaustible 
topic of conversation in most of its homes. He
had never thought before that people at the North
had any ancestors--none they were very proud of.

John looked up and winked. "Great scheme
naming me after his Royal Highness," he said, in an
undertone. "Sure road to the White House; they
thought I'd make a good third."

Mrs. Grant went on, not having heard a word of
John's aside: "This table you're eating from, once
belonged to Mr. Adams. He gave it to my father,
who often spent a week at a time with him in the
White House."

"And I wish he was there now," interrupted Silas
from the foot of the table. "He'd straighten out
this snarl we're drifting into. Looks to me as if
there would be some powder burnt before this thing
is over. What do your people say about it?" and
he nodded at Oliver. He had served the turkey, and
was now sharpening the carver for the boiled ham,
trying the edge with his thumb, as Shylock did.

"I haven't been at home for some time, sir," replied 
Oliver, in a courteous tone--he intended to be
polite to the end--"and so I cannot say. My father's 
letters, seem to be very anxious, but mother
doesn't think there'll be any trouble; at least she
said so in her last letter."

Silas looked up from under the tufts of cotton-
wool. Were the mothers running the politics of the
South, he wondered?

"And there's another thing you folks might as
well remember. We're not going to let you break
up the Union, and we're not going to pay you for
your slaves, either," and he plunged the fork into
the ham that the spectacled waitress had laid before
him and rose in his chair, the knife poised in his
hand to carve it the better.

"Mr. Horn hasn't got any slaves to sell, father--
didn't you hear him say so? His father freed his,"
laughed Margaret. Her father's positiveness never
really worried her. She rather liked it at times. It
was only because she had read in Oliver's face the
impression her father was making upon him that she
essayed to soften the force of his remarks.

"I heard him, Margaret, I heard him. Glad of
it--but he's the only man from his parts that I ever
heard who did. The others won't give 'em up so
easy. They hung John Brown for trying to help
the negroes free themselves, don't forget that."
Oliver looked up and knitted his brows. Silas saw
it. "I'm not meaning any offence to you, young
man," he said quickly, waving the knife toward
Oliver. "I'm taking this question on broad grounds.
If I had my way I'd teach those slave-drivers--" and
he buried the knife in the yielding ham, "that--"

"They did just right to hang him," interrupted
John. "Brown was a fanatic, and ought to have
stayed at home. No one is stronger than the law.
That's where old Ossawatomie Brown made a mistake." 
Everybody was entitled to express his or her
opinion in this house except the dear old mother.
Margaret's fearless independence of manner and
thought had been nurtured in fertile soil.

Mrs. Grant had been vainly trying to get the drift
of the conversation, her hand behind her ear.

"Parson Brown, did you say, John? He married 
us, sir," and she turned to Oliver. "He lived
here over forty years. The church that you passed
was where he preached."

John laughed, and so did Silas, at the old lady's
mistake, but Oliver only became the more attentive
to his hostess. He was profoundly grateful to the
reverend gentleman for coming out of his grave at
this opportune moment and diverting the talk into
other channels. Why did they want to bother him
with all this talk about slavery and the South, when
he was so happy he could hardly stay in his skin? It
set his teeth on edge--he wished that the dinner
were over and everybody down at the bottom of the
sea but Margaret; he had come to see his sweetheart
--not to talk slavery.

"Yes, I saw the church," and for the rest of the
dinner, Oliver was entertained with the details in the
life of the Rev. Leonidas Brown, including his manner 
of preaching; the crowds who would go to hear
him; the number converted under the good man's
ministrations; to all of which Oliver listened with a
closeness of attention that would have surprised those
who knew him unless they had discovered that his
elbow had found Margaret's during the recital, and
that the biography of every member of Brown's 
congregation might have been added to that of the 
beloved pastor without wearying him in the slightest
degree.

When the nuts were served--Silas broke his with
his fingers--his host made one more effort to draw
Oliver into a discussion, but Margaret stopped it by
exclaiming, suddenly:

"Where shall Mr. Horn smoke, mother?" She
wanted Oliver to herself--the family had had him
long enough.

"Why, does he want to SMOKE?" she answered,
with some consternation.

"Yes, of course he does. All painters smoke."

"Well, I don't know; let me see." The old lady
hesitated as if seeking the choice between two evils.
"I suppose in the sitting-room. No--the library
would be better."

"Oh, I won't smoke at all if your mother does
not like it," Oliver protested, springing from his
chair.

"Oh, yes, you will," interrupted John. "I never
smoke, and father don't, but I know how good a pipe
tastes. Let's go into the library."

Margaret gave Oliver the big chair and sat beside
him. It was a small room, the walls almost hidden
with books; the windows filled with flowering plants.
There was a long table piled up with magazines and
pamphlets, and an open fireplace, the wall above the
mantel covered with framed pictures of weeping-
willows worked out with hair of dead relatives, and
the mantel itself with faded daguerreotypes propped
apart like half-opened clam-shells.

Mr. Grant on leaving the dining-room walked
slowly to the window without looking to the right
or left, dropped into a chair and gazed out through
the leaves of a geranium. The meal was over.
Now he wanted rest and quiet. When Mrs. Grant
entered the library and saw the wavy lines of tobacco-
smoke that were drifting lazily about the room she
stopped, evidently annoyed and uneasy. No such
sacrilege of her library had taken place for years;
not since her Uncle Reuben had come home from
China. The waves of smoke must have caught the
expression on her face, for she had hardly reached
Oliver's chair before they began stealing along the
ceiling in long, slanting lines until they reached
the doorway, when with a sudden swoop, as if frightened, 
and without once looking back, they escaped
into the hall.

The dear lady laid her hand on Oliver's shoulder,
bent over him in a tender, motherly way, and
said:

"Do you think it does you any good?"

"I don't know that it does."

"Why should you do it, then?"

"But I won't if you'd rather I'd not." Oliver
sprang to his feet, took his pipe from his mouth, and
was about to cross the room to knock the ashes from
it into the fireplace when Margaret laid her hand on
his arm.

"No, don't stop. Mother is very foolish about
some things--smoking is one of them."

"But I can't smoke, darling," he said, in an undertone, 
"if your mother objects." The mother law
was paramount, to say nothing of the courtesy required 
of him. Then he added, with a meaning look
in his eyes--"Can't we get away some place where
we can talk?" Deaf mothers are a blessing sometimes.

Margaret pressed his hand--her fingers were still
closed over the one holding the pipe.

"In a moment, Ollie," and she rose and went into
the adjoining room.

Mrs. Grant went to her husband's side, and in
her gentle mission of peace put her arm around his
neck, patting his shoulder and talking to him in
a low tone, her two yellow-white curls streaming
down over the collar of his coat. Silas slipped his
hand over his wife's and for an instant caressed it
tenderly with his cold, bony fingers. Then seeing
Oliver's eyes turning his way he drew in his shoulders 
with a quick movement and looked askance at
his guest. Any public show of affection was against
Silas's creed and code. If people wanted to hug
each other, better do it upstairs, he would say, not
where everybody was looking on, certainly not this
young man, who was enough of a mollycoddle
already.

John, now that Margaret had gone, moved over
from the lounge and took her seat, and the two
young men launched out into a discussion of flies and
worms and fish-bait, and whether frog's legs were
better than minnows in fishing for pickerel, and what
was the best-sized shot for woodcock and Jack-snipe.
Oliver told of the ducking-blinds, of the Chesapeake,
and of how the men sat in wooden boxes sunk to the
water's edge, with the decoy ducks about them, and
shot the flocks as they flew over. And John told of
a hunting trip he had made with two East Branch
guides, and how they went loaded for deer and came
back with a bear and two cubs. And so congenial
did they find each other's society that before Margaret 
returned to the room--she had gone into her
studio to light the lamp under the tea-kettle--the two
young fellows had discovered that they were both
very good fellows indeed, especially Oliver and 
especially John, and Oliver had half promised to come
up in the winter and go into camp with John, and
John met him more than half-way with a promise
to accept Oliver's invitation for a week's visit in 
Kennedy Square the next time he went home, if that
happy event ever took place, when they would both
go down to Carroll's Island for a crack at a canvas-
back.

This had gone on for ten minutes or more--ten
minutes is an absurdly long period of time under
certain circumstances--when Margaret's voice was
heard in the doorway:

"Come, John, you and Mr. Horn have talked long
enough; I want to show him my studio if you'll spare
him a moment."

John knew when to spare and when not to--oh,
a very intelligent brother was John! He did not
follow and talk for another hour of what a good time
he would have duck-shooting, and of what togs he
ought to carry--spoiling everything; nor did he send
his mother in to help Margaret entertain their guest.
None of these stupid things did John do. He said
he would go down to the post-office if Oliver didn't
mind, and would see him at supper, and Margaret
said that that was a very clever idea, as nobody had
gone for the mail that day, and there were sure to
be letters, and not to forget to ask for hers. Awfully 
sensible brother was John. Why aren't there
more like him?

Entering Margaret's studio was like going back to
Moose Hillock. There were sketches of the interior
of the school-house, and of the children, and of the
teacher who had taught the year before. There was
Mrs. Taft sitting on that very porch, peeling potatoes,
with a tin pan in her lap--would they ever forget
that porch and the moonlight and the song of the
tree-toads, and the cry of the loon? There was Hank
in corduroys, with an axe over his shoulder; and
Hank in a broad straw hat and no shoes, with a
fishing-pole in one hand; and Hank chopping wood;
the chips littering the ground. There was Ezra Pollard 
sitting in his buckboard with a buffalo-robe
tucked about him, and Samanthy by his side. And
best of all, and in the most prominent place, too,
there was the original drawing of the Milo--the one
she was finishing when Oliver upset Judson, and
which, strange to say, was the only Academy drawing 
which Margaret had framed--besides scores and
scores of sketches of people and things and places
that she had made in years gone by.

The room itself was part of an old portico which
had been walled up. It had a fireplace at one end,
holding a Franklin stove, and a skylight overhead,
the light softened by green shades. Here she kept
her own books ranged on shelves over the mantel;
and in the niches and corners and odd spaces a few
rare prints and proofs--two Guido Renis and a Leonardo, 
both by Raphael Morghen. Against the wall
was an old. clothes-press with brass handles, its 
drawers filled with sketches, as well as a lounge covered
with chintz and heaped up with cushions. The door
between the studio and library had been taken off,
and was now replaced by a heavy red curtain. Margaret 
had held it aside for Oliver to enter, and it had
dropped back by its own weight, shutting them both
safely in.

I don't know what happened when that heavy
red curtain swung into place, and mother, father,
sea, sky, sun, moon, stars, and the planets, with
all that in them is, were shut out for a too brief
moment.

And if I did know I would not tell.

We go through life, and we have all sorts of sensations. 
We hunger and are fed. We are thirsty,
and reach an oasis. We are homeless, and find shelter. 
We are ill, and again walk the streets. We
dig and delve and strain every nerve and tissue, and
the triumph comes at last, and with it often riches
and honor. All these things send shivers of delight
through us, and for the moment we spread our wings
and soar heavenward. But when we take in our
arms the girl we love, and hold close her fresh, sweet
face, with its trusting eyes, and feel her warm breath
on our cheeks, and the yielding figure next our heart,
knowing all the time how mean and good-for-nothing
and how entirely unworthy of even tying her shoe-
strings we are, we experience a something compared
with which all our former flights heavenward are but
the flutterings of bats in a cave.

And the blessed John did not come back until
black, dark night!--not until it was so dark that you
couldn't see your hand before you or the girl beside
you, which is nearer the truth; not until the stout
woman in spectacles with the conversational habit,
had brought in a lard-oil lamp with a big globe,
which she set down on Margaret's table among her
books and papers. And when John did come, and
poked his twice-blessed head between the curtains, it
was not to sit down inside and talk until supper-times
but to say that it was getting cold outside and that
they ought to have a fire if they intended to sit in the
studio after supper. (Oh, what a trump of a brother!)
And if they didn't mind he'd send Hopeful right
away with some chips to start it. All of which Miss
Hopeful Prime accomplished, talking all the time to
Margaret as she piled up the logs, and not forgetting 
a final word to Oliver as she left the room, to
the effect that she "guessed it, must be kind o' 
comfortin' to set by a fire"--such luxuries, of course,
to her thinking, being unknown in his tropical land,
where the blacks went naked and the children lay
about in the sun munching watermelons and
bananas.

What an afternoon it had been! They had talked
of the woods and their life under the trees; of the
sketches they made and how they could improve
them, and would; of the coming winter and the
prospect of the school being opened and what it
meant to them if it did, and how much more if it did
not, and she be compelled to remain in Brookfield
with Oliver away all winter in New York, and of a
thousand and one other things that lay nearest their
hearts and with which neither you nor I have anything 
to do.

It was good, Margaret thought, to talk to him in
this way, and see the quick response in his eyes and
feel how true and helpful he was.

She had dreaded his coming--dreaded the contrasts 
which she knew his presence among them
would reveal. She knew how punctiliously polite
he was, and how brusque and positive was her father.
She realized, too, how outspoken and bluff was John,
and how unaccustomed both he and her dear deaf
mother were to the ways of the outside world. What
would Oliver think of them? What effect would
her home life have on their future? she kept saying
to herself.

Not that she was ashamed of her people, certainly
not of her father, who really occupied a higher position 
than any of his neighbors. He was not only
a deacon in the church and chairman of the School
Board, but he had been twice sent to the Legislature,
and at one time had been widely discussed as a fitting
candidate for Governor. Nobody in Brookfield
thought the less of him because of his peculiarities
--many of his neighbors liked him the better for his
brusqueness; they believed in a man who had the
courage of his convictions and who spoke out, no
matter whose toes he trod on.

Nor could she be ashamed of her brother John--
so kind to everybody; so brave and generous, and
such a good brother. Only she wished that he had
some of Oliver's courtesy, and that he would take
off his hat when a lady spoke to him in the road, and
keep it off till she bade him replace it, and observe
a few of the other amenities; but even with all his
defects of manner--all of which she had never before 
noticed--he was still her own dear brother John,
and she loved him dearly.

And as for her mother--that most gentle and gracious 
of women--that one person in the house who
was considerate of everybody's feelings and tolerant
of everybody's impatience! What could Oliver find
in her except what was adorable? As she thought
of her mother, a triumphant smile crossed her face.
"That's the one member of the Grant family," she
said to herself, "whom my fine gentleman must admit 
is the equal of any one of his top-lofty kinsfolk
in Kennedy Square or anywhere else." Which outburst 
the scribe must admit to himself was but another 
proof of the fact that no such thing as true
democracy exists the world over.

None of these thoughts had ever crossed her mind
up to the time she met Oliver on the bridge that first
sunny morning. He had never discussed the subject 
of any difference between their two families, nor
had he ever criticised the personality of anyone she
knew. He had only BEEN HIMSELF. The change in
her views had come gradually and unconsciously to
her as the happy weeks flew by. Before she knew it
she had realized from his talk, from his gestures, even
from the way he sat down or got up, or handled his
knife and fork, or left the room or entered it, that
some of her early teachings had led her astray, and
that there might be something else in life worth having 
outside of the four cardinal virtues--economy,
industry, pluck, and plain-speaking. And if there
were--and she was quite certain of it now--would
Oliver find them at Brookfield Farm? This was
really the basis of her disquietude; the kernel of the
nut which she was trying to crack.

If any of these shortcomings on the part of his
entertainers had been apparent to Oliver, or if he
had ever drawn any such deductions, or noted
any such contrasts, judged by the Kennedy
Square code, no word of disappointment had passed
his lips.

Some things, it is true, during his visit at the farm,
had deeply impressed him, but they were not those
that Margaret feared. He had thought of them that
first night when going over the events of the day as
they passed in review before him. One personality
and one incident had made so profound an impression 
upon him that he could not get to sleep for an
hour thinking about them. It was the stalwart figure 
of John Grant in his broad-brimmed straw hat
and heavy boots striding up the garden-path with his
scythe over his shoulder. This apparition, try as he
might, would not down at his bidding.

"Think of that young fellow," he kept repeating
to himself. "The eldest son and heir to the estate
no doubt, a college-bred man and a most charming
gentleman, working like a common laborer in his
father's field. And proud of it, too--and would do
it again and talk about it. And yet I was so ashamed
of working with my hands that I had to run away
from home for fear the boys would laugh at me.

Margaret heard the whole story from Oliver's lips
the next morning with many adornments, and with
any amount of good resolutions for the future. She
listened quietly and held his hand the closer, her eyes
dancing in triumph, the color mounting to her cheeks,
but she made no reply.

Neither did she return the confidence and tell Oliver 
how she wished her father could see some things
in as clear a light, and be more gentle and less 
opinionated. She was too proud for that.

And so the days, crowded thick with emotions,
sped on.

The evening of their first one came and passed,
with its half-hours when neither spoke a word and
when both trembled all over for the very joy of living; 
and the morning of the second arrived, bringing 
with it a happiness she had never known before,
and then the morning of the third--and the last day.

They had kept their secret even from John. Oliver 
wanted to inform her father at once of his attachment, 
telling her it was not right for him to
accept the hospitality of her parents unless they 
understood the whole situation, but she begged him to
wait, and he had yielded to her wishes.

They had all discussed him at their pleasure.

"Nice chap that young Horn," John had said to
her the night before. "We had three or four of
'em in my class, one from Georgia and two from
Alabama. They'd fight in a minute, but they'd make
up just as quick. This one's the best of the lot."
He spoke as if they had all belonged to another race
--denizens of Borneo or Madagascar or the islands
of the Pacific.

"I have sent my love to his mother, my dear,"
Mrs. Grant had confided to her early that same morning. 
"I am sure he has a good mother. He is so
kind and polite to me, he never lets me remember
that I am deaf when I talk to him," and she looked
about her in her simple, patient way.

"Yes--perhaps so," said Silas, sitting hunched up
in his chair. "Seems sort of skippy-like to me.
Something of a Dandy Jim, I should say. Good
enough to make men painters of, I guess." Artists
in those days had few friends North or South.

None of these criticisms affected Margaret. She
didn't care what they thought of him. She knew
his heart, and so would they in time.

When Oliver had said all his public good-byes to
the rest of the family--the good-byes with which we
have nothing to do had been given and taken in the
studio with the curtains drawn--he joined Margaret
at the gate.

They were standing in the road now, under the
giant elm, waiting for the stage. She stood close
beside him, touching his arm with her own, mournfully 
counting the minutes before the stage would
come, her eyes up the road. All the light and loveliness 
of the summers all the joy and gladness of life,
would go out of her heart when the door of the lumbering 
vehicle closed on Oliver.


CHAPTER XVII

LIVE COALS FROM MISS CLENDENNING'S WOOD-FIRE


His good-byes said, one absorbing thought now
filled Oliver's mind--to reach Kennedy Square on
the wings of the wind and there to pour into the ears
of his mother and Miss Lavinia, and of anyone else
who would listen, the whys and wherefores of his love
for Margaret, with such additional description of her
personal charms, qualities, and talents as would bring
about, in the shortest possible time, the most amicable
of relations between Kennedy Square and Brookfield 
Farm. He was determined that his mother
should know her at once. He knew how strong her
prejudices were and what her traditions would cause
her to think of a woman who led the life that Margaret 
did, but these things did not deter him. A new
love now filled his heart--another and a different
kind of love from the one he bore his mother. One
that belonged to him; one that was his own and affected 
his life and soul and career. He was prepared 
to fight even harder for this desire of his soul
than for his art.

There being no air-ships available for immediate
charter, nor big balloons waiting for passengers, with
sand-bags ready for instant unloading, nor any
underground pneumatic tubes into which he could be
pumped and with a puff landed on his own doorstep
in Kennedy Square, the impatient lover was obliged
to content himself with the back seat of the country
stage and a night ride in the train down the valley.

Then came a delay of a week in New York waiting 
for the return of Mr. Slade to the city--"whom
you must by all means see before coming home," so
his mother's letter ran. This delay was made bearable 
by Waller, Bowdoin, and old Professor Cummings 
who went into spasms of delight over the boys'
sketches. Waller especially predicted a sure future
for him if he would have the grit to throw overboard
every other thing he was doing and "stick it out and
starve it out" until he pulled through and became
famous.

Mr. Slade, while welcoming him with both hands,
was not so cheering. The financial and political 
situations were no better, he said. They had really 
become more alarming every day. The repudiation
of Northern accounts by Southern merchants had
ceased--at least some of Morton, Slade & Co.'s customers 
had redeemed their obligations and had forwarded 
them their overdue remittances, tiding them
over for a time--but no one could say what was in
store for any firm whose business lay largely in the
Southern States. He would, however, make his
word good. Oliver's situation was still open, and he
could again occupy his desk as soon as he returned
from Kennedy Square. The length of his service
depended entirely on whether the country would go
to war or whether its difficulties could be satisfactorily
settled in the next Congress.

But none of these things--none of the more depressing 
ones--dulled for an instant the purpose or
chilled the enthusiasm of our young lover. Wars,
pestilence, financial panics and even social tidal-
waves might overwhelm the land and yet not one
drop of the topmost edge of the flood could wet the
tips of his high-stepping toes: Margaret was his; he
trod an enchanted realm.

An enthusiasm of equal intensity, but of quite a
different kind, had taken possession of the Horn
mansion as the hour of Oliver's arrival approached,
as anyone would have noticed who happened to be
inside its hospitable walls. Something out of the
common was about to happen. There was an unusual
restlessness in Malachi totally at variance with his
grave and dignified demeanor. His perturbation was
so great that he even forgot the time-honored custom 
of wheeling his master's chair into position and
the equally time-honored salutation of "yo' chair's
all ready, Marse Richard." It was noticed, too, that
he could not keep out of the hall. Richard had to
speak to him twice and Mrs. Horn had lifted her
head in astonishment when that hitherto attentive
darky handed her Richard's spectacles instead of her
own. Or he would start to enter the dining-room,
his hands laden with plates, or the library, his arms
filled with logs to replenish the fire, and then stop
suddenly and listen with one foot raised, standing
like an old dog locating a partridge. So nervous did
he become as the twilight deepened, and he began
to set the table for supper, that he dropped a cup,
smashing it into atoms, a thing that had not happened 
to him before in twenty years--one of the
blue and gilt--priceless heirlooms in the family,
and only used when a distinguished guest was expected. 
At another time he would have dropped the
whole tray with everything upon it, had not Aunt
Hannah saved it in time. How she came to be in
the pantry with her two eyes on the front door, when
her place was in the kitchen with both of them on the
pots and kettles, no one could tell. Everything
seemed to be at sixes and sevens in the old house
that night.

And the other members of the household inside
the drawing-room seemed just as restless. Richard,
who had raked the coals of his forge, closed the green
door of his workshop, and had dressed himself an
hour earlier than usual, much to Malachi's delight,
became so restless that he got up from his easy-chair
half a dozen times and roamed aimlessly about the
room, stopping to pick up a book, reading a line and
laying it down again. Mrs. horn dropped so many
stitches that she gave up in despair, and said she 
believed she would not knit.

Malachi heard him first.

"Dat's him--dat's Marse Ollie," he cried. "I
know dat knock. Here he is, Mistis. Here he is!"
He sprang forward, threw wide the door and had him
by the hand before the others could reach him.

"Fo' Gawd, Marse Ollie, ain't ol' Malachi glad ter
git his han's on yer once mo'!"

It was unseemly and absurd how the old man behaved!

And the others were not far behind.

"My boy," exclaimed Mrs. Horn, as she held him
close to her breast. There are few words spoken
in times like this.

Richard waited behind her until that imperceptible
moment of silence had passed--the moment a mother
gets her arms around the son she loves. Then when
the sigh of restful relief that always follows had
spent itself, and she had kissed him with his cheek
held fast to hers, Oliver loosened his hold and threw
his arms about his father's neck, patting him between 
his shoulder-blades as he kissed him.

"Dear old dad! Oh, but it's good to get home!
And Aunt Hannah, you there?" and he extended
his hand while his other arm was still around his
father's neck.

"Yas, Marse Oilie, dat's me; dat's ol' Hannah,"
and she stepped closer and grasped his outstretched
hand, smoothing it as she spoke. "Lord, Marse
Ollie, but ain't you filled out? You is de probable
son, sho', honey, come home to yo' people."

But Oliver was not through with Malachi. He
must take both of his hands this time and look into
his eyes. It was all he could do to keep from hugging 
him. It would not have been the first time.

"Been well, Mallie?"

Of course he had been; he saw it in his face. It
was only to say something to which the old darky
could reply to--to keep in touch with him--to know
that he was speaking to this same old Malachi whom
he had so dearly loved.

"Middlin' po'ly, yas--middlin' po'ly, suh."

Malachi had not the slightest idea what he was
talking about. He had not been sick a minute since
Oliver left. His heart was too near bursting with
pride at his appearance and joy over his return for
his mind to work intelligently.

