Mrs. Lidcote smiled. "Yes; a few years ago it would have seemed
improbable that I should ever again be dining with Mary Giles and
Harriet Fresbie and Mrs. Lorin Boulger."

Miss Suffern did not at the moment seem disposed to enlarge upon this
theme; and after an interval of silence Mrs. Lidcote suddenly resumed:
"Do they know I'm here, by the way?"

The effect of her question was to produce in Miss Suffern an exaggerated
access of peering and frowning. She twitched the tea-things about,
fingered her bugles, and, looking at the clock, exclaimed amazedly:
"Mercy! Is it seven already?"

"Not that it can make any difference, I suppose," Mrs. Lidcote
continued. "But did Leila tell them I was coming?"

Miss Suffern looked at her with pain. "Why, you don't suppose, dearest,
that Leila would do anything--"

Mrs. Lidcote went on: "For, of course, it's of the first importance, as
you say, that Mrs. Lorin Boulger should be favorably impressed, in order
that Wilbour may have the best possible chance of getting Borne."

"I _told_ Leila you'd feel that, dear. You see, it's actually on _your_
account--so that they may get a post near you--that Leila invited Mrs.
Boulger."

"Yes, I see that." Mrs. Lidcote, abruptly rising from her seat, turned
her eyes to the clock. "But, as you say, it's getting late. Oughtn't we
to dress for dinner?"

Miss Suffern, at the suggestion, stood up also, an agitated hand
among her bugles. "I do wish I could persuade you to stay up here this
evening. I'm sure Leila'd be happier if you would. Really, you're much
too tired to come down."

"What nonsense, Susy!" Mrs. Lidcote spoke with a sudden sharpness, her
hand stretched to the bell. "When do we dine? At half-past eight? Then I
must really send you packing. At my age it takes time to dress."

Miss Suffern, thus projected toward the threshold, lingered there to
repeat: "Leila'll never forgive herself if you make an effort you're not
up to." But Mrs. Lidcote smiled on her without answering, and the icy
lightwave propelled her through the door.


V

Mrs. Lidcote, though she had made the gesture of ringing for her maid,
had not done so.

When the door closed, she continued to stand motionless in the middle
of her soft spacious room. The fire which had been kindled at twilight
danced on the brightness of silver and mirrors and sober gilding; and
the sofa toward which she had been urged by Miss Suffern heaped up
its cushions in inviting proximity to a table laden with new books and
papers. She could not recall having ever been more luxuriously housed,
or having ever had so strange a sense of being out alone, under the
night, in a windbeaten plain. She sat down by the fire and thought.

A knock on the door made her lift her head, and she saw her daughter
on the threshold. The intricate ordering of Leila's fair hair and the
flying folds of her dressinggown showed that she had interrupted her
dressing to hasten to her mother; but once in the room she paused a
moment, smiling uncertainly, as though she had forgotten the object of
her haste.

Mrs. Lidcote rose to her feet. "Time to dress, dearest? Don't scold! I
shan't be late."

"To dress?" Leila stood before her with a puzzled look. "Why, I thought,
dear--I mean, I hoped you'd decided just to stay here quietly and rest."

Her mother smiled. "But I've been resting all the afternoon!"

"Yes, but--you know you _do_ look tired. And when Susy told me just now
that you meant to make the effort--"

"You came to stop me?"

"I came to tell you that you needn't feel in the least obliged--"

"Of course. I understand that."

There was a pause during which Leila, vaguely averting herself from
her mother's scrutiny, drifted toward the dressing-table and began to
disturb the symmetry of the brushes and bottles laid out on it.

"Do your visitors know that I'm here?" Mrs. Lidcote suddenly went on.

"Do they--Of course--why, naturally," Leila rejoined, absorbed in
trying to turn the stopper of a salts-bottle.

"Then won't they think it odd if I don't appear?"

"Oh, not in the least, dearest. I assure you they'll _all_ understand."
Leila laid down the bottle and turned back to her mother, her face
alight with reassurance.

Mrs. Lidcote stood motionless, her head erect, her smiling eyes on her
daughter's. "Will they think it odd if I _do_?"

Leila stopped short, her lips half parted to reply. As she paused, the
colour stole over her bare neck, swept up to her throat, and burst into
flame in her cheeks. Thence it sent its devastating crimson up to her
very temples, to the lobes of her ears, to the edges of her eyelids,
beating all over her in fiery waves, as if fanned by some imperceptible
wind.

Mrs. Lidcote silently watched the conflagration; then she turned away
her eyes with a slight laugh. "I only meant that I was afraid it might
upset the arrangement of your dinner-table if I didn't come down. If you
can assure me that it won't, I believe I'll take you at your word and
go back to this irresistible sofa." She paused, as if waiting for her
daughter to speak; then she held out her arms. "Run off and dress,
dearest; and don't have me on your mind." She clasped Leila close,
pressing a long kiss on the last afterglow of her subsiding blush. "I do
feel the least bit overdone, and if it won't inconvenience you to have
me drop out of things, I believe I'll basely take to my bed and stay
there till your party scatters. And now run off, or you'll be late; and
make my excuses to them all."


VI

The Barkleys' visitors had dispersed, and Mrs. Lidcote, completely
restored by her two days' rest, found herself, on the following Monday
alone with her children and Miss Suffern.

There was a note of jubilation in the air, for the party had "gone
off" so extraordinarily well, and so completely, as it appeared, to the
satisfaction of Mrs. Lorin Boulger, that Wilbour's early appointment
to Rome was almost to be counted on. So certain did this seem that the
prospect of a prompt reunion mitigated the distress with which Leila
learned of her mother's decision to return almost immediately to
Italy. No one understood this decision; it seemed to Leila absolutely
unintelligible that Mrs. Lidcote should not stay on with them till their
own fate was fixed, and Wilbour echoed her astonishment.

"Why shouldn't you, as Leila says, wait here till we can all pack up and
go together?"

Mrs. Lidcote smiled her gratitude with her refusal. "After all, it's not
yet sure that you'll be packing up."

"Oh, you ought to have seen Wilbour with Mrs. Boulger," Leila triumphed.

"No, you ought to have seen Leila with her," Leila's husband exulted.

Miss Suffern enthusiastically appended: "I _do_ think inviting Harriet
Fresbie was a stroke of genius!"

"Oh, we'll be with you soon," Leila laughed. "So soon that it's really
foolish to separate."

But Mrs. Lidcote held out with the quiet firmness which her daughter
knew it was useless to oppose. After her long months in India, it was
really imperative, she declared, that she should get back to Florence
and see what was happening to her little place there; and she had been
so comfortable on the _Utopia_ that she had a fancy to return by the
same ship. There was nothing for it, therefore, but to acquiesce in her
decision and keep her with them till the afternoon before the day of
the _Utopia's_ sailing. This arrangement fitted in with certain projects
which, during her two days' seclusion, Mrs. Lidcote had silently
matured. It had become to her of the first importance to get away as
soon as she could, and the little place in Florence, which held her
past in every fold of its curtains and between every page of its books,
seemed now to her the one spot where that past would be endurable to
look upon.

