Produced by Jake Jaqua


IMAGINATIONS AND REVERIES
               --by AE  [George William Russell]


PREFACE


The publishers of this book thought that a volume of articles and
tales written by me during the past twenty-five years would have
interest enough to justify publication, and asked me to make a
selection.  I have not been able to make up a book with only one
theme.  My temperament would only allow me to be happy when I was
working at art.  My conscience would not let me have peace unless
I worked with other Irishmen at the reconstruction of Irish life.
Birth in Ireland gave me a bias towards Irish nationalism, while
the spirit which inhabits my body told me the politics of eternity
ought to be my only concern, and that all other races equally with
my own were children of the Great King.  To aid in movements one
must be orthodox.  My desire to help prompted agreement, while my
intellect was always heretical.  I had written out of every mood,
and could not retain any mood for long.  If I advocated a national
ideal I felt immediately I could make an equal plea for more
cosmopolitan and universal ideas.  I have observed my intuitions
wherever they drew me, for I felt that the Light within us knows
better than any other the need and the way.  So I have no book on
one theme, and the only unity which connects what is here written
is a common origin.  The reader must try a balance between the
contraries which exist here as they exist in us all, as they
exist and are harmonized in that multitudinous meditation which
is the universe.--A.E.


PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION


To this edition four essays have been added.  Two of these, "Thoughts
for a Convention" and "The New Nation," made some little stir when
they first appeared.  Ireland since then has passed away from the
mood which made it possible to consider the reconciliations suggested,
and has set its heart on more fundamental changes, and these essays
have only interest as marking a moment of transition in national
life before it took a new road leading to another destiny.


CONTENTS

NATIONALITY OR COSMOPOLITANISM
STANDISH O'GRADY
THE DRAMATIC TREATMENT OF LEGEND
THE CHARACTER OF HEROIC LITERATURE
A POET OF SHADOWS
THE BOYHOOD OF A POET
THE POETRY OF JAMES STEPHENS
A NOTE ON SEUMAS O'SULLIVAN
ART AND LITERATURE
AN ARTIST OF GARLIC IRELAND
TWO IRISH ARTISTS
"ULSTER"
IDEALS OF THE NEW RURAL SOCIETY
THOUGHTS FOR A CONVENTION
THE NEW NATION
THE SPIRITUAL CONFLICT
ON AN IRISH HILL
RELIGION AND LOVE
THE RENEWAL OF YOUTH
THE HERO IN MAN
THE MEDITATION OF ANANDA
THE MIDNIGHT BLOSSOM
THE CHILDHOOD OF APOLLO
THE MASK OF APOLLO
The CAVE OF LILITH
THE STORY OF A STAR
THE DREAM OF ANGUS OGE
DEIRDRE


NATIONALITY OR COSMOPOLITANISM

As one of those who believe that the literature of a country is
for ever creating a new soul among its people, I do not like to
think that literature with us must follow an inexorable law of
sequence, and gain a spiritual character only after the bodily
passions have grown weary and exhausted themselves.  In the essay
called The Autumn of the Body, Mr. Yeats seems to indicate such a
sequence.  Yet, whether the art of any of the writers of the
decadence does really express spiritual things is open to doubt.
The mood in which their work is conceived, a distempered emotion,
through which no new joy quivers, seems too often to tell rather
of exhausted vitality than of the ecstasy of a new life.  However
much, too, their art refines itself, choosing, ever rarer and more
exquisite forms of expression, underneath it all an intuition
seems to disclose only the old wolfish lust, hiding itself beneath
the golden fleece of the spirit.  It is not the spirit breaking
through corruption, but the life of the senses longing to shine
with the light which makes saintly things beautiful:  and it would
put on the jeweled raiment of seraphim, retaining still a heart
of clay smitten through and through with the unappeasable desire
of the flesh:  so Rossetti's women, who have around them all the
circumstance of poetry and romantic beauty, seem through their
sucked-in lips to express a thirst which could be allayed in no
spiritual paradise.  Art in the decadence in our time might be
symbolized as a crimson figure undergoing a dark crucifixion:  the
hosts of light are overcoming it, and it is dying filled with
anguish and despair at a beauty it cannot attain.  All these
strange emotions have a profound psychological interest.  I do not
think because a spiritual flaw can be urged against a certain phase
of life that it should remain unexpressed.  The psychic maladies
which attack all races when their civilization grows old must needs
be understood to be dealt with:  and they cannot be understood
without being revealed in literature or art.  But in Ireland we
are not yet sick with this sickness.  As psychology it concerns
only the curious.  Our intellectual life is in suspense.  The
national spirit seems to be making a last effort to assert itself
in literature and to overcome cosmopolitan influences and the art
of writers who express a purely personal feeling.  It is true that
nationality may express itself in many ways:  it may not be at all
evident in the subject matter, but it may be very evident in the
sentiment.  But a literature loosely held together by some emotional
characteristics common to the writers, however great it may be,
does not fulfill the purpose of a literature or art created by a
number of men who have a common aim in building up an overwhelming
ideal--who create, in a sense, a soul for their country, and who
have a common pride in the achievement of all.  The world has not
seen this since the great antique civilizations of Egypt and Greece
passed away.  We cannot imagine an Egyptian artist daring enough
to set aside the majestic attainment of many centuries.  An Egyptian
boy as he grew up must have been overawed by the national tradition,
and have felt that it was not to be set aside:  it was beyond his
individual rivalry.  The soul of Egypt incarnated in him, and,
using its immemorial language and its mysterious lines, the efforts
of the least workman who decorated a tomb seem to have been directed
by the same hand that carved the Sphinx.  This adherence to a
traditional form is true of Greece, though to a less extent.  Some
little Tanagra terra-cottas might have been fashioned by Phidias,
and in literature Ulysses and Agamemnon were not the heroes of one
epic, but appeared endlessly in epic and drama.  Since the Greek
civilization no European nation has had an intellectual literature
which was genuinely national.  In the present century, leaving
aside a few things in outward circumstance, there is little to
distinguish the work of the best English writers or artists from
that of their Continental contemporaries.  Milliais, Leighton,
Rossetti, Turner--how different from each other, and yet they might
have painted the same pictures as born Frenchmen, and it would not
have excited any great surprise as a marked divergence from French art.
The cosmopolitan spirit, whether for good or for evil, is hastily
obliterating all distinctions.  What is distinctly national in these
countries is less valuable than the immense wealth of universal ideas;
and the writers who use this wealth appeal to no narrow circle:  the
foremost writers, the Tolstois and Ibsens, are conscious of addressing
a European audience.

If nationality is to justify itself in the face of all this, it
must be because the country which preserves its individuality does
so with the profound conviction that its peculiar ideal is nobler
than that which the cosmopolitan spirit suggests--that this ideal
is so precious to it that its loss would be as the loss of the soul,
and that it could not be realized without an aloofness from, if
not an actual indifference to, the ideals which are spreading so
rapidly over Europe.  Is it possible for any nationality to make
such a defense of its isolation?  If not, let us read Goethe, Balzac,
Tolstoi, men so much greater than any we can show, try to absorb
their universal wisdom, and no longer confine ourselves to local
traditions.  But nationality was never so strong in Ireland as at
the present time.  It is beginning to be felt, less as a political
movement than as a spiritual force.  It seems to be gathering itself
together, joining men who were hostile before, in a new intellectual
fellowship:  and if all these could unite on fundamentals, it would
be possible in a generation to create a national Ideal in Ireland,
or rather to let that spirit incarnate fully which began among the
ancient peoples, which has haunted the hearts and whispered a dim
revelation of itself through the lips of the bards and peasant
story tellers.

Every Irishman forms some vague ideal of his country, born from
his reading of history, or from contemporary politics, or from
imaginative intuition;  and this Ireland in the mind it is, not
the actual Ireland, which kindles his enthusiasm.  For this he
works and makes sacrifices;  but because it has never had any
philosophical definition or a supremely beautiful statement in
literature which gathered all aspirations about it, the ideal
remains vague.  This passionate love cannot explain itself;  it
cannot make another understand its devotion.  To reveal Ireland
in clear and beautiful light, to create the Ireland in the heart,
is the province of a national literature.  Other arts would add
to this ideal hereafter, and social life and politics must in the
end be in harmony.  We are yet before our dawn, in a period
comparable to Egypt before the first of her solemn temples
constrained its people to an equal mystery, or to Greece before
the first perfect statue had fixed an ideal of beauty which mothers
dreamed of to mould their yet unborn children.  We can see, however,
as the ideal of Ireland grows from mind to mind, it tends to assume
the character of a sacred land.  The Dark Rosaleen of Mangan
expresses an almost religious adoration, and to a later writer it
seems to be nigher to the spiritual beauty than other lands:

     And still the thoughts of Ireland brood
     Upon her holy quietude.

The faculty of abstracting from the land their eyes beheld another
Ireland through which they wandered in dream, has always been a
characteristic of the Celtic poets.  This inner Ireland which the
visionary eye saw was the Tirnanoge, the Country of Immortal Youth,
for they peopled it only with the young and beautiful.  It was
the Land of the Living Heart, a tender name which showed that it
had become dearer than the heart of woman, and overtopped all
other dreams as the last hope of the spirit, the bosom where it
would rest after it had passed from the fading shelter of the world.
And sure a strange and beautiful land this Ireland is, with a
mystic beauty which closes the eyes of the body as in sleep, and
opens the eyes of the spirit as in dreams and never a poet has
lain on our hillsides but gentle, stately figures, with hearts
shining like the sun, move through his dreams, over radiant grasses,
in an enchanted world of their own:  and it has become alive through
every haunted rath and wood and mountain and lake, so that we can
hardly think of it otherwise than as the shadow of the thought of God.
The last Irish poet who has appeared shows the spiritual qualities
of the first, when he writes of the gray rivers in their "enraptured"
wanderings, and when he sees in the jeweled bow which arches
the heavens--

     The Lord's seven spirits that shine through the rain

This mystical view of nature, peculiar to but one English poet,
Wordsworth is a national characteristic;  and much in the creation
of the Ireland in the mind is already done, and only needs retelling
by the new writers.  More important, however, for the literature
we are imagining as an offset to the cosmopolitan ideal would be
the creation of heroic figures, types, whether legendary or taken
from history, and enlarged to epic proportions by our writers, who
would use them in common, as Cuculain, Fionn, Ossian, and Oscar
were used by the generations of poets who have left us the bardic
history of Ireland, wherein one would write of the battle fury of
a hero, and another of a moment when his fire would turn to
gentleness, and another of his love for some beauty of his time,
and yet another tell how the rivalry of a spiritual beauty made
him tire of love;  and so from iteration and persistent dwelling
on a few heroes, their imaginative images found echoes in life,
and other heroes arose, continuing their tradition of chivalry.

That such types are of the highest importance, and have the most
ennobling influence on a country, cannot be denied.  It was this
idea led Whitman to exploit himself as the typical American.  He
felt that what he termed a "stock personality" was needed to
elevate and harmonize the incongruous human elements in the States.
English literature has always been more sympathetic with actual
beings than with ideal types, and cannot help us much.  A man who
loves Dickens, for example, may grow to have a great tolerance for
the grotesque characters which are the outcome of the social order
in England, but he will not be assisted in the conception of a
higher humanity:  and this is true of very many English writers
who lack a fundamental philosophy, and are content to take man as
he seems to be for the moment, rather than as the pilgrim of eternity--
as one who is flesh today but who may hereafter grow divine, and
who may shine at last like the stars of the morning, triumphant among
the sons of God.

Mr. Standish O'Grady, in his notable epic of Cuculain, was in our
time the first to treat the Celtic tradition worthily.  He has
contributed one hero who awaits equal comrades, if indeed the tales
of the Red Branch do not absorb the thoughts of many imaginative
writers, and Cuculain remain the typical hero of the Gael, becoming
to every boy who reads the story a revelation of what his own spirit is.

I know John Eglinton, one of our most thoughtful writers, our first
cosmopolitan, thinks that "these ancient legends refuse to be taken
out of their old environment."  But I believe that the tales which
have been preserved for a hundred generations in the heart of the
people must have had their power, because they had in them a core
of eternal truth. Truth is not a thing of today or tomorrow.
Beauty, heroism, and spirituality do not change like fashion, being
the reflection of an unchanging spirit.  The face of faces which
looks at us through so many shifting shadows has never altered the
form of its perfection since the face of man, made after its image,
first looked back on its original:

     For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
     Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
          And Usna's children died.

These dreams, antiquities, traditions, once actual, living, and
historical, have passed from the world of sense into the world of
memory and thought:  and time, it seems to me, has not taken away
from their power, nor made them more remote from sympathy, but has
rather purified them by removing them from earth to heaven:  from
things which the eye can see and the ear can hear they have become
what the heart ponders over, and are so much nearer, more familiar,
more suitable for literary use than the day they were begotten.  They
have now the character of symbol, and, as symbol, are more potent
than history.  They have crept through veil after veil of the manifold
nature of man;  and now each dream, heroism, or beauty has laid itself
nigh the divine power it represents, the suggestion of which made it
first beloved:  and they are ready for the use of the spirit, a
speech of which every word has a significance beyond itself, and
Deirdre is, like Helen, a symbol of eternal beauty;  and Cuculain
represents as much as Prometheus the heroic spirit, the
redeemer in man.

In so far as these ancient traditions live in the memory of man,
they are contemporary to us as much as electrical science:  for the
images which time brings now to our senses, before they can be used
in literature, have to enter into exactly the same world of human
imagination as the Celtic traditions live in.  And their fitness
for literary use is not there determined by their freshness but by
their power of suggestion.  Modern literature, where it is really
literature and not book-making, grows more subjective year after year,
and the mind has a wider range over time than the physical nature has.
Many things live in it--empires which have never crumbled, beauty
which has never perished, love whose fires have never waned:  and,
in this formidable competition for use in the artist's mind, today
stands only its chance with a thousand days.  To question the
historical accuracy of the use of such memories is not a matter
which can be rightly raised.  The question is--do they express lofty
things to the soul?  If they do they have justified themselves.

I have written at some length on the two paths which lie before us,
for we have arrived at a parting of ways.  One path leads, and has
already led many Irishmen, to obliterate all nationality from their
work.  The other path winds upward to a mountain-top of our own,
which may be in the future the Mecca to which many worshippers will
turn.  To remain where we are as a people, indifferent to literature,
to art, to ideas, wasting the precious gift of public spirit we
possess so abundantly in the sordid political rivalries, without
practical or ideal ends, is to justify those who have chosen the
other path, and followed another star than ours.  I do not wish
any one to infer from this a contempt for those who, for the last
hundred years, have guided public opinion in Ireland.  If they
failed in one respect, it was out of a passionate sympathy for
wrongs of which many are  memories, thanks to them, and to them
is due the creation of a force which may be turned in other
directions, not without a memory of those pale sleepers to whom
we may turn in thought, placing--

     A kiss of fire on the dim brow of failure,
     A crown upon her uncrowned head.

1899


STANDISH O'GRADY


In this age we read so much that we lay too great a burden on the
imagination.  It is unable to create images which are the spiritual
equivalent of the words on the printed page, and reading becomes
for too many an occupation of the eye rather than of the mind.  How
rarely, out of the multitude of volumes a man reads in his lifetime,
can he remember where or when he read any particular book, or with
any vividness recall the mood it evoked in him.  When I close my
eyes, and brood in memory over the books which most profoundly
affected me, I find none excited my imagination more than Standish
O'Grady's epical narrative of Cuculain.  Whitman said of his Leaves
of Grass:  "Camerado, this is no book.  Who touches this touches
a man," and O'Grady might have boasted of his Bardic History of
Ireland, written with his whole being, that there was more than a
man in it, there was the soul of a people, its noblest and most
exalted life symbolized in the story of one heroic character.

With reference to Ireland, I was at the time I read like many others
who were bereaved of the history of their race.  I was as a man who,
through some accident, had lost memory of his past, Who could recall
no more than a few months of new life, and could not say to what
songs his cradle had been rocked, what mother had nursed him, who
were the playmates of childhood, or by what woods and streams he
had wandered.  When I read O'Grady I was as such a man who suddenly
feels ancient memories rushing at him, and knows he was born in a
royal house, that he had mixed with the mighty of heaven and earth
and had the very noblest for his companions.  It was the memory
of race which rose up within me as I read, and I felt exalted as
one who learns he is among the children of kings.  That is what
O'Grady did for me and for others who were my contemporaries, and
I welcome the reprints, of his tales in the hope that he will go
on magically recreating for generations yet unborn the ancestral
life of their race in Ireland.  For many centuries the youth of
Ireland as it grew up was made aware of the life of bygone ages,
and there were always some who remade themselves in the heroic mould
before they passed on.  The sentiment engendered by the Gaelic
literature was an arcane presence, though unconscious of itself,
in those who for the past hundred years had learned another speech.
In O'Grady's writings the submerged river of national culture rose
up again, a shining torrent, and I realized as I bathed in that
stream, that the greatest spiritual evil one nation could inflict
on another was to cut off from it the story of the national soul.
For not all music can be played upon any instrument, and human
nature for most of us is like a harp on which can be rendered the
music written for the harp but nor that written for the violin.
The harp strings quiver for the harp-player alone, and he who can
utter his passion through the violin is silent before an unfamiliar
instrument.  That is why the Irish have rarely been deeply stirred
by English literature, though it is one of the great literatures
of the world.  Our history was different and the evolutionary
product was a peculiarity of character, and the strings of our
being vibrate most in ecstasy when the music evokes ancestral moods
or embodies emotions akin to these.  I am not going to argue the
comparative worth of the Gaelic and English tradition.  All that
I can say is that the traditions of our own country move us more
than the traditions of any other.  Even if there was not essential
greatness in them we would love them for the same reasons which
bring back so many exiles to revisit the haunts of childhood.  But
there was essential greatness in that neglected bardic literature
which O'Grady was the first to reveal in a noble manner.  He had
the spirit of an ancient epic poet.  He is a comrade of Homer,
his birth delayed in time perhaps that he might renew for a
sophisticated people the elemental simplicity and hardihood men
had when the world was young and manhood was prized more than any
of its parts, more than thought or beauty or feeling.  He has
created for us, or rediscovered, one figure which looms in the
imagination as a high comrade of Hector, Achilles, Ulysses, Rama
or Yudisthira, as great in spirit as any.  Who could extol enough
his Cuculain,  that incarnation of Gaelic chivalry, the fire and
gentleness, the beauty and heroic ardour or the imaginative splendor
of the episodes in his retelling of the ancient story.  There are
writers who bewitch you by a magical use of words whose lines
glitter like jewels, whose effects are gained by an elaborate art
and who deal with the subtlest emotions.  Others again are simple
as an Egyptian image, and yet are more impressive, and you remember
them less for the sentence than for a grandiose effect.  They are
not so much concerned with the art of words as with the creation
of great images informed with magnificence of spirit.  They are
not lesser artists but greater, for there is a greater art in the
simplification of form in the statue of Memnon than there is in
the intricate detail of a bronze by Benvenuto Cellini.  Standish
O'Grady had in his best moments that epic wholeness and simplicity,
and the figure of Cuculain amid his companions of the Red Branch
which he discovered and refashioned for us is, I think, the greatest
spiritual gift any Irishman for centuries has given to Ireland.

I know it will be said that this is a scientific age, the world
is so full of necessitous life that it is waste of time for young
Ireland to brood upon tales of legendary heroes, who fought with
enchanters, who harnessed wild fairy horses to magic chariots and
who talked with the ancient gods, and that it would be much better
for youth to be scientific and practical.  Do not believe it, dear
Irish boy, dear Irish girl, I know as well as any the economic
needs of our people.  They must not be overlooked, but keep still
in your hearts some desires which might enter Paradise.  Keep in
your souls some images of magnificence so that hereafter the halls
of heaven and the divine folk may not seem altogether alien to
the spirit.  These legends have passed the test of generations
for century after century, and they were treasured and passed on
to those who followed, and that was because there was something
in them akin to the immortal spirit.  Humanity cannot carry with
it through time the memory of all its deeds and imaginations, and
it burdens itself only in a new era with what was highest among
the imaginations of the ancestors.  What is essentially noble is
never out of date.  The figures carved by Pheidias for the Parthenon
still shine by the side of the greatest modern sculpture.  There
has been no evolution of the human form to a greater beauty than
the ancient Greek saw, and the forms they carved are not strange
to us, and if this is true of the outward form it is true of the
indwelling spirit.  What is essentially noble is contemporary with
all that is splendid today, and until the mass of men are equal
in spirit the great figures of the past will affect us less as
memories than as prophecies of the Golden Age to which youth is
ever hurrying in its heart.

O'Grady in his stories of the Red Branch rescued from the past what
was  contemporary to the best in us today, and he was equal in his
gifts as a writer to the greatest of his bardic predecessors in
Ireland.  His sentences are charged with a heroic energy, and,
when he is telling a great tale, their rise and fall is like the
flashing and falling of the bright sword of some great battle, or
like the onset and withdrawal of Atlantic surges.  He can at need
be beautifully tender and quiet.  Who that has read his tale of
the young Finn and the Seven Ancients will forget the weeping of
Finn over the kindness of the famine-stricken old men, and their
wonder at his weeping, and the self-forgetful pathos of their
meditation unconscious that it was their own sacrifice called
forth the tears of Finn.  "Youth," they said, "has many sorrows
that cold age cannot comprehend."

There are critics repelled by the abounding energy in O'Grady's
sentences.  It is easy to point to faults due to excess and
abundance, but how rare in literature is that heroic energy and
power.  There is something arcane and elemental in it, a quality
that the most careful stylist cannot attain, however he uses the
file, however subtle he is.  O'Grady has noticed this power in
the ancient bards and we find it in his own writing.  It ran all
through the Bardic History, the Critical and Philosophical History,
and through the political books, The Tory Democracy and All Ireland.
There is this imaginative energy in the tale of Cuculain, in all
its episodes, the slaying of the hound, the capture of the Liath
Macha, the hunting of the enchanted deer, the capture of the Wild
swans, the fight at the ford, and the awakening of the Red Branch.
In the later tale of Red Hugh which, he calls The Flight of the
Eagle there is the same quality of power joined with a shining
simplicity in the narrative which rises into a poetic ecstasy in
that wonderful chapter where Red Hugh, escaping from the Pale,
rides through the Mountain Gates of Ulster and sees high above
him Sheve Gullion, a mountain of the Gods, the birth-place of
legend "more mythic than Avernus";  and O'Grady evokes for us and
his hero the legendary past and the great hill seems to be like
Mount Sinai, thronged with immortals, and it lives and speaks to
the fugitive boy, "the last great secular champion of the Gael,"
and inspires him for the fulfillment of his destiny.  We might say
of Red Hugh, and indeed of all O'Grady's heroes, that they are the
spiritual progeny of Cuculain.  From Red Hugh down to the boys who
have such enchanting adventures in Lost on Du Corrig and The Chain
of Gold they have all a natural and hardy purity of mind, a beautiful
simplicity of character, and one can imagine them all in an hour
of need, being faithful to any trust like the darling of the Red
Branch.  These shining lads never grew up amid books.  They are
as much children of nature as the Lucy of Wordsworth's poetry.  It
might be said of them as the poet of the Kalevala sang of himself:
"Winds and waters my instructors."

These were O'Grady's own earliest companions, and no man can find
better comrades than earth, water, air and sun.  I imagine O'Grady's
own youth was not so very different from the youth of Red Hugh
before his captivity;  that he lived on the wild and rocky western
coast, that he rowed in coracles, explored the caves, spoke much
with hardy natural people, fishermen and workers on the land,
primitive folk, simple in speech but with that fundamental depth
men have who are much in nature in companionship with the elements,
the elder brothers of humanity.  It must have been out of such a
boyhood and such intimacies with natural and unsophisticated people
that there came to him the understanding of the heroes of the Red
Branch.  How pallid, beside the ruddy chivalry who pass, huge and
fleet and bright, through O'Grady's pages, appear Tennyson's
bloodless Knights of the Round Table, fabricated in the study to
be read in the drawing room, as anemic  as Burne Jones' lifeless
men in armour.  The heroes of ancient Irish legend reincarnated
in the mind of a man who could breathe into them the fire of life,
caught from sun and wind, their ancient deities, and send them
forth to the world to do greater deeds, to act through many men
and speak through many voices.  What sorcery was in the Irish mind
that it has taken so many years to win but a little recognition
for this splendid spirit;  and that others who came after him, who
diluted the pure fiery wine of romance he gave us with literary water,
should be as well known or more widely read.  For my own, part I
can only point back to him and say whatever is Irish in me he kindled
to life, and I am humble when I read his epic tale, feeling how
much greater a thing it is for the soul of a writer to have been
the habitation of a demi-god than to have had the subtlest intellections.

We praise the man who rushes into a burning mansion and brings out
its greatest treasure.  So ought we to praise this man who rescued
from the perishing Gaelic tradition its darling hero and restored
him to us, and I think now that Cuculain will not perish, and he
will be invisibly present at many a council of youth, and he will
be the daring which lifts the will beyond itself and fires it for
great causes, and he will be also the courtesy which shall overcome
the enemy that nothing else may overcome.

I am sure that Standish O'Grady would rather I should speak of his
work and its bearing on the spiritual life of Ireland, than about
himself, and, because I think so, in this reverie I have followed
no set plan but have let my thoughts run as they will.  But I would
not have any to think that this man was only a writer, or that he
could have had the heroes of the past for spiritual companions,
without himself being inspired to fight dragons and wizardry.  I
have sometimes regretted that contemporary politics drew O'Grady
away from the work he began so greatly.  I have said to myself he
might have given us an Oscar, a Diarmuid or a Caolte, an equal
comrade to Cuculain, but he could not, being lit up by the spirit
of his hero, he merely the bard and not the fighter, and no man
in Ireland intervened in the affairs of his country with a superior
nobility of aim.  He was the last champion of the Irish aristocracy,
and still more the voice of conscience for them, and he spoke to
them of their duty to the nation as one might imagine some fearless
prophet speaking to a council of degenerate princes.  When the
aristocracy failed Ireland he bade them farewell, and wrote the
epitaph of their class in words whose scorn we almost forget
because of their sounding melody and beauty.  He turned his mind
to the problems of democracy and more especially of those workers
who are trapped in the city, and he pointed out for them the way
of escape and how they might renew life in the green fields close
to Earth, their ancient mother and nurse.  He used too exalted a
language for those to whom he spoke to understand, and it might
seem that all these vehement appeals had failed but that we know
that what is fine never really fails.  When a man is in advance
of his age, a generation, unborn when he speaks, is born in due
time and finds in him its inspiration.  O'Grady may have failed
in his appeal to the aristocracy of his own time but he may yet
create an aristocracy of character and intellect in Ireland.  The
political and economic writings will remain to uplift and inspire
and to remind us that the man who wrote the stories of heroes had
a bravery of his own and a wisdom of his own.  I owe so much to
Standish O'Grady that I would like to leave it on record that it
was he made me conscious and proud of my country, and recalled to
my mind, that might have wandered otherwise over too wide and
vague a field of thought, to think of the earth under my feet and
the children of our common mother.  There hangs in the Municipal
Gallery of Dublin the portrait of a man with melancholy eyes, and
scrawled on the canvas is the subject of his bitter brooding:  "'The
Lost Land."  I hope that O'Grady will find before he goes back to
Tir na noge that Ireland has found again through him what seemed
lost for ever, the law of its own being, and its memories which go
back to the beginning of the world.


THE DRAMATIC TREATMENT OF  LEGEND


"The Red Branch ought not to be staged. . . . That literature ought
not to be produced for popular consumption for the edification of
the crowd. . . . I say to you drop this thing at your, peril. . . .
You may succeed in degrading Irish ideals, and banishing the soul
of the land. . . . Leave the heroic cycles alone, and don't bring
them down to the crowd..."  (Standish O'Grady in All Ireland Review).

Years ago, in the adventurous youth of his mind, Mr. O'Grady found
the Gaelic tradition like a neglected antique dun with the doors
barred, and there was little or no egress.  Listening, he heard
from within the hum of an immense chivalry, and he opened the doors
and the wild riders went forth to work their will.  Now he would
recall them.  But it is in vain.  The wild riders have gone forth,
and their labors in the human mind are only beginning.  They will
do their deeds over again, and now they will act through many men
and speak through many voices.  The spirit of Cuculain will stand
at many a lonely place in the heart, and he will win as of old
against multitudes.  The children of Turann will start afresh
still eager to take up and renew their cyclic labors, and they
will gain, not for themselves, the Apples of the Tree of Life,
and the Spear of the Will, and the Fleece which is the immortal
body.  All the heroes and demigods returning will have a wider
field than Erin for their deeds, and they will not grow weary
warning upon things that die but will be fighters in the spirit
against immortal powers, and, as before, the acts will be sometimes
noble and sometimes base.  They cannot be stayed from their deeds,
for they are still in the strength of a youth which is ever renewing
itself.  Not for all the wrong which may be done should they be
restrained.  Mr. O'Grady would now have the tales kept from the
crowd to be the poetic luxury of a few.  Yet would we, for all the
martyrs who perished in the fires of the Middle Ages, counsel the
placing of the Gospels on the list of books to be read only by a
few esoteric worshippers?

The literature which should be unpublished is that which holds the
secret of the magical powers.  The legends of Ireland are not of
this kind.  They have no special message to the aristocrat more
than to the man of the people.  The men who made the literature
of Ireland were by no means nobly born, and it was the bards who
placed the heroes, each in his rank, and crowned them for after
ages, and gave them their famous names.  They have placed on the
brow of others a crown which belonged to themselves, and all the
heroic literature of the world was made by the sacrifice of the
nameless kings of men who have given a sceptre to others they never
wielded while living, and who bestowed the powers, of beauty and
pity on women who perhaps had never uplifted a heart in their day,
and who now sway us from the grave with a grace only imagined in
the dreaming soul of the poet.  Mr. O'Grady has been the bardic
champion of the ancient Irish aristocracy.  He has thrown on them
the sunrise colors of his own brilliant spirit, and now would
restrain others from the use of their names lest a new kingship
should be established over them, and another law than that of his
own will, lest the poets of the democracy looking back on the
heroes of the past should overcome them with the ideas of a later
day, and the Atticottic nature find a loftier spirit in those who
felt the unendurable pride of the Fianna and rose against it.  Well,
it is only natural he should try to protect the children of his
thought, but they need no later word from him.  If writers of a
less noble mind than his deal with these things they will not rob
his heroes of a single power to uplift or inspire.  In Greece,
after Eschylus and his stupendous deities, came Sophocles, who
restrained them with a calm wisdom, and Euripides, who made them
human, but still the mysterious Orphic deities remain and stir
us when reading the earlier page.  Mr. O'Grady would not have the
Red Branch cycle cast in dramatic form or given to the people.
They are too great to be staged;  and he quotes, mistaking the
gigantic for the heroic, a story of Cuculain reeling round Ireland
on his fairy steed the Liath Macha.  This may be phantasy or
extravagance, but it is not heroism.  Cuculain is often heroic,
but it is a quality of the soul and not of the body;  it is shown
by his tears over Ferdiad, in his gentleness to women.  A more
grandiose and heroic figure than Cuculain was seen on the Athenian
stage;  and no one will say that the Titan Prometheus, chained on
the rock in his age-long suffering for men, is not a nobler figure
than Cuculain in any aspect in which he appears to us in the tales.
Divine traditions, the like of which were listened to with awe by
the Athenians, should not be too lofty for our Christian people,
whose morals Mr. O'Grady, here hardly candid, professes to be
anxious about.  What is great in literature is a greatness springing
out of the human heart.  Though we fall short today of the bodily
stature of the giants of the prime, the spirit still remains and
can express an equal greatness.  I can well understand how a man
of our own day, by the enlargement of his spirit, and the passion
and sincerity of his speech, could express the greatness of the past.
The drama in its mystical beginning was the vehicle through which
divine ideas, which are beyond the sphere even of heroic life and
passion, were expressed;  and if the later Irish writers fail of
such greatness, it is not for that reason that the soul of Ireland
will depart.  I can hardly believe Mr. O'Grady to be serious when
he fears that many forbidden subjects will be themes for dramatic art,
that Maeve with her many husbands will walk the stage, and the lusts
of an earlier age be revived to please the lusts of today.  The
danger of art is not in its subjects, but in the attitude of the
artist's mind.  The nobler influences of art arise, not because
heroes are the theme, but because of noble treatment and the intuition
which perceives the inflexible working out of great moral laws.

The abysses of human nature may well be sounded if the plummet be
dropped by a spirit from the heights.  The lust which leads on to
death may be a terrible thing to contemplate, but in the event
there is consolation;  and the eye of faith can see even in the
very exultation of corruption how God the Regenerator is working
His will, leading man onward to his destiny of inevitable beauty.
Mr. O'Grady in his youth had the epic imagination, and I think few
people realize how great and heroic that inspiration was;  but the
net that is spread for Leviathan will not capture all the creatures
of the deep, and neither epic nor romance will manifest fully the
power of the mythical ancestors of the modern Gael who now seek
incarnation anew in the minds of their children.  Men too often
forget, in this age of printed books, that literature is, after all,
only an ineffectual record of speech.  The literary man has gone
into strange byways through long contemplation of books, and he
writes with elaboration what could never be spoken, and he loses
that power of the bards on whom tongues of fire had descended, who
were masters of the magic of utterance, whose thoughts were not
meant to be silently absorbed from the lifeless page.  For there
never can be, while man lives in a body, a greater means of
expression for him than the voice of man affords, and no instrument
of music will ever rival in power the flowing of the music of the
spheres through his lips.  In all its tones, from the chanting of
the magi which compelled the elements, to those gentle voices which
guide the dying into peace, there is a power which will never be
stricken from tympan or harp, for in all speech there is life, and
with the greatest speech the deep tones of another Voice may mingle.
Has not the Lord spoken through His prophets?  And man, when he has
returned to himself, and to the knowledge of himself, may find a
greater power in his voice than those which he has painfully harnessed
to perform his will, in steamship or railway.  It is through drama
alone that the writer can summon, even if vicariously, so great a
power to his aid;  and it is possible we yet may hear on the stage,
not merely the mimicry of human speech, but the old forgotten music
which was heard in the duns of great warriors to bow low their faces
in their hands.  Dear O'Grady, if we do not succeed it is not for
you to blame us, for our aims are at least as high as your own.

1902


THE CHARACTER OF HEROIC LITERATURE


Lady Gregory, a fairy godmother, has given to Young Ireland the
gift of her Cuchulain of Muirthemne, which should be henceforward
the book of its dream.  I do not doubt but there will be a great
change in the next generation, for the character of many children
will have grown to maturity brooding over the memories of heroes
who were themselves half children, half demigods.  Though the hero
tales will have their greatest power over the young, no one mind
could measure their depth.  They seem simple and primitive, yet
they draw us strangely aside from life, and the emotions they awaken
are not simple but complex.  Here are twenty tales, and they are
so alike in imaginative character that they seem all to have poured
from one mind;  and to these twenty we could add a hundred others,
all endlessly fertile in difference of incident, but all seeming
to own the same imaginative creator.  It was so for many centuries,
and then the maker of the song seems to have grown weary, and
distinct voices not overladen with the tradition of the ages were
heard;  and today every one wanders in a path of his own, finding
or losing the way, the truth, and the life of art in the free play
of his desires.  There was something more to cause this later period
of diverse utterance than the interruption of other races and the
claims of the world upon us.  Surely the ancient Egyptian met in
Memphis or Thebes as many strangers as we did, but he wept on through
many dynasties carving the same face of mystery and rarely altering
the peculiar forms which were his inheritance from the craftsmen
of a thousand years before.  It was not the introduction of something
new, but the loss of something which finally vexed the calm of the
Sphinx and marred the Phidian beauty which in Greece was a long
dream for many generations.  It was not because the Dane or Norman
came and dwelt among us that the signature of the Sidhe was withdrawn
from the Gaelic mind.  I do not know how to express this loss
otherwise than by saying we appear to have fallen away from our
archetype.  We find in all the early stories the presence of one
being who may be the genius of our land if that old idea of race
divinities be a true one.  A strange similitude unites all the
characters.  We infer an interior identity.  The same spirit flashes
out in hostile clans, and then Cuculain kisses Ferdiad.  They all
confidently appeal to;  it in each other.  Maeve flying after the
great battle can ask a gift from her conqueror and obtains it.  Fand
and Emer dispute who shall make the last sacrifice of love and give
the beloved to a rival.  The conflicts seem half in play or in dream,
and we do not know when an awakening of love will disarm the foes.
In spite of the bloodshed the heroes seem like children who fight
steadily through a mock battle, but the night will see these children
at peace, and they will dream with arms around each other in the
same cot.  No literature ever had a more beautiful heart of childhood
in it.  The bards could hate no one consistently.  If they took
away the heroic chivalry from Conchobar in one tale they restored
it to him in another.  They have the confident trust--and expectation
of goodness that children have, who may have suffered punishment,
but who come later on and smile on the chastiser.  It is this quality
which gives the tales their extraordinary charm.  I know no other
literature which has it to the same degree.  I do not like to
speculate on the absence of this spirit in our later literature,
which was written under other influences.  It cannot be because
there was a less spiritual life in the apostles than in the bards.
We cannot compare Cuculain, the most complete ideal of Gaelic
chivalry, with that supreme figure whose coming to the world was
the effacement of whole pantheons of divinities, and yet it is
true that since the thoughts of men were turned from the old ideals
our literature has been filled with a less noble life.  I think a
due may be found in the withdrawal of thought from nature, the
great mother who, is the giver of all life, and without whose life
ideals become inoperative and listless dwellers in the heart.  The
eyes of the ancient Gael were fixed in wonder on the rocks and hills,
and the waste places of the earth were piled with phantasmal palaces
where the Sidhe sat on their thrones.  Everywhere there was life,
and as they saw so they felt.  To conceive of nature in any way,
as beautiful and living, as friendly or hostile, is to receive from
her in like measure out of her fullness.  With whatever face we
approach the mirror a similar face approaches ours.  "Let him
approach it, saying, 'This is the Mighty,' he becomes mighty," says
an ancient scripture, teaching us that as our aspiration is so will
be our inspiration and power.  Out of this comradeship with earth
there came a commingling of natures, and we do not know when we
read who are the Sidhe and who are human.  The great energies are
all in the heroes.  They bound to themselves, like the Talkend,
the strength of the fire, the brightness of the sun, and the
swiftness of the wind.  They seem truly the earth-born.  The waves
respond to their deeds;  the elemental creatures respond and there
are clashing echoes and allies innumerable, and armies in the air
continuing their battles illimitably beyond:  a proud race, who
felt with bursting heart the heavens were watching them, who defied
their gods and exiled them to have free play for their own deeds.
A  very different humanity indeed from those who have come to walk
the earth with humility, who are afraid of heaven and its rulers,
and whose dread is the greatest of all sins, for in it is a denial
of their own divinity.  Surely the sight heroes is more welcome
to the King, in whose heaven are sworded seraphim, than the bowed
knees and the spirits who make themselves as worms in His sight.
In the symbolic expression of our spiritual life the eagle has
become a dove brooding peace.  Oh, that it might rebecome the eagle
and take to the upper airs!

A generosity and greatness of spirit are in the heroes of the Red
Branch, and out of their strength grows a bloom of beauty never
fully revealed until Lady Gregory compiled these tales.  As we
read our eyes are dazzled by strange graces of color flowing over the
pages:  everywhere there is mystery and magnificence.  Procession's
pass by in Druid ritual, kings and queens, and harpers who look like
kings.  When the wind passes over them and stirs their garments a
sweetness comes over the teller of the tale, who felt that delight
in draperies blown over shapely forms which is the inspiration of
the Winged Victory and many Greek marbles.  The bards will not have
the hands of those proud people touch anything which is not beautiful.
"It was a beautiful chessboard they had, all of white bronze, and
the chessmen of gold and silver, and a candlestick of precious stones
lighting it."  The wasting of time has spared us a few things to
show that this rare and intricate metal work was not a myth, and
we are forced by an inexorable logic to accept as mainly true the
narration of the pride, the beauty, the generosity, and the large
lovable character of the ancient heroes.  We may come to realize
that, losing their Druid vision of a more shining world mingling
with this, we have lost the vision of that life into the likeness
of which it is the true labor of the spirit to transform this life.
For the Tirnanoge is that Garden where, in the mind of the Lord,
the flowers and trees blossomed before they grew in the fields,
where man lived in the Golden Age before the outer darkness of the
earth was built and he was outcast from Paradise.  There is no true
art or literature which has not some image of the Golden Life lurking
within it, and through the archaic rudeness of these legends the
light shines as sunlight through the hoary branches of ancient oaks.
Lady Gregory has done her work, as compiler with a judgment which
could hardly be too much praised, and she has translated the stories
into an idiom which is a reflection of the original Gaelic and is
full of charm.  We are indebted to her for this labor as much as
to any of those  who sang to sweeten Ireland's wrong.

1902


A POET OF SHADOWS


When I was asked to write "anything" about Yeats, our Irish poet,
my thoughts were like rambling flocks that have no shepherd, and
without guidance my rambling thoughts have run anywhere.

I confess I have feared to enter or linger too long in the many-
colored land of Druid twilights and tunes.  A beauty not our own,
more perfect than we can ourselves conceive, is a danger to the
imagination.  I am too often tempted to wander with Usheen in
Timanoge and to forget my own heart and its more rarely accorded
vision of truth.  I know I like my own heart best, but I never
look into the world of my friend without feeling that my region
lies in the temperate zone and is near the Arctic circle;  the
flowers grow more rarely and are paler, and the struggle for
existence is keener.  Southward and in the warm west are the Happy
Isles among the Shadowy Waters.  The pearly phantoms are dancing
there with blown hair amid cloud tail daffodils.  They have known
nothing but beauty, or at the most a beautiful unhappiness.  Everything
there moves in procession or according to ritual, and the agony of
grief, it is felt, must be concealed.  There are no faces blurred with
tears there;  some traditional gesture signifying sorrow is all that
is allowed.  I have looked with longing eyes into this world. It is
Ildathach, the Many-Colored Land, but not the Land of the Living Heart.
That island where the multitudinous beatings of many hearts became
one is yet unvisited;  but the isle of our poet is the more beautiful
of all the isles the mystic voyagers have found during the thousands
of years literature has recorded in Ireland.  What wonder that many wish
to follow him, and already other voices are singing amid its twilights.

They will make and unmake.  They will discover new wonders;  and
will perhaps make commonplace some beauty which but for repetition
would have seemed rare.  I would that no one but the first discoverer
should enter Ildathach, or at least report of it.  No voyage to the
new world, however memorable, will hold us like the voyage of Columbus.
I sigh sometimes thinking on the light dominion dreams have over the
heart.  We cannot hold a dream for long, and that early joy of the
poet in his new-found world has passed.  It has seemed to him too
luxuriant.  He seeks for something more, and has tried to make its
tropical tangle orthodox;  and the glimmering waters and winds are
no longer beautiful natural presences, but have become symbolic
voices and preach obscurely some doctrine of their power to quench
the light in the soul or to fan it to a brighter flame.

I like their old voiceless motion and their natural wandering best,
and would rather roam in the bee-loud glade than under the boughs
of beryl and chrysoberyl, where I am put to school to learn the
significance of every jewel.  I like that natural infinity which
a prodigal beauty suggests more than that revealed in esoteric
hieroglyphs, even though the writing be in precious stones.
Sometimes I wonder whether that insatiable desire of the mind for
something more than it has yet attained, which blows the perfume
from every flower, and plucks the flower from every tree, and hews
down every tree in the valley until it goes forth gnawing itself
in a last hunger, does not threaten all the cloudy turrets of the
Poet's soul.  But whatever end or transformation, or unveiling may
happen, that which creates beauty must have beauty in its essence,
and the soul must cast off many vestures before it comes to itself.
We, all of us, poets, artists, and musicians, who work in shadows,
must sometime begin to work in substance, and why should we grieve
if one labor ends and another begins?  I am interested more in life
than in the shadows of life, and as Ildathach grows fainter I await
eagerly the revelation of the real nature of one who has built so
many mansions in the heavens.  The poet has concealed himself under
the embroidered cloths and has moved in secretness, and only at
rare times,  as when he says, "A pity beyond all telling is hid
in the heart of love," do we find a love which is not the love of
the Sidhe;  and more rarely still do recognizable human figures,
like the Old Pensioner or Moll Magee, meet us.  All the rest are
from another world and are survivals of the proud and golden races
who move with the old stateliness and an added sorrow for the dark
age which breaks in upon their loveliness.  They do not war upon
the new age, but build up about themselves in imagination the
ancient beauty, and love with a love a little colored by the passion
of the darkness from which they could not escape.  They are the sole
inheritors of many traditions, and have now come to the end of the
ways, and so are unhappy.  We know why they are unhappy, but not
the cause of a strange merriment which sometimes they feel, unless
it be that beauty within itself has a joy in its own rhythmic being.
They are changing, too, as the winds and waters have changed.  They
are not like Usheen, seekers and romantic wanderers, but have each
found some mood in themselves where all quest ceases;  they utter
oracles, and even in the swaying of a hand or the dropping of hair
there is less suggestion of individual action than of a divinity
living within them, shaping an elaborate beauty in dream for his
own delight, and for no other end than the delight in his dream.
Other poets have written of Wisdom overshadowing man and speaking
through his lips, or a Will working within the human will, but I
think in this poetry we find for the first time the revelation of
the Spirit as the weaver of beauty.  Hence it comes that little
hitherto unnoticed motions are adored:

     You need but lift a pearl-pale hand,
     And bind up your long hair and sigh;
     And all men's hearts must burn and beat.

This woman is less the beloved than the priestess of beauty who
reveals the divinity, not as the inspired prophetesses filled with
the Holy Breath did in the ancient mysteries, but in casual gestures
and in a waving of her white arms, in the stillness of her eyes,
in her hair which trembles like a faery flood of unloosed shadowy
light over pale breasts, and in many glimmering motions so beautiful
that it is at once seen whose footfall it is we hear, and that the
place where she stands is holy ground.  This, it seems to me, is
what is essential in this poetry, what is peculiar and individual
in it--the revelation of great mysteries in unnoticed things;  and
as not a sparrow may fall unconsidered by Him, so even in the
swaying of a human hand His sceptre may have dominion over the
heart and His paradise be entered in the lifting of an eyelid.

1902


THE BOYHOOD OF A POET


When I was a boy I knew another who has since become famous and
who has now written Reveries over Childhood and Youth.  I searched
the pages to meet the boy I knew and could not find him.  He has
told us what he saw and what he remembered of others, but from
himself he seems to have passed away and remembers himself not.
The boy I knew was darkly beautiful to look on, fiery yet playful
and full of lovely and elfin fancies.  He was swift of response,
indeed over-generous to the fancies of others because a nature so
charged with beauty could not but emit beauty at every challenge.
Even so water, however ugly the object we cast upon it, can but
break out in a foam of beauty and a bewilderment of lovely curves.

Our fancies were in reality nothing to him but the affinities which
by the slightest similitude evoked out of the infinitely richer
being the prodigality of beautiful images with which it was endowed
and made itself conscious of itself.  I have often thought how
strange it is that artist and poet have never yet revealed themselves
to us except in verse and painting, that there was among them no
psychologist who could turn back upon himself to search for the law
of his own being, who could tell us how his brain first became
illuminated with images, and who tried to track the inspiration to
its secret fount and the images to their ancestral beauty.  Few of
the psychologists who have written about imagination were endowed
with it themselves:  and here is a poet, the most imaginative of
his generation, who has written about his youth and has told us
only about external circumstances and nothing about himself, nothing
about that flowering of strange beauty in poetry in him where the
Gaelic imagination that had sunk underground when the Gaelic speech
had died, rose up again transfiguring an alien language until that
new poetry became like the record of another mystic voyager to the
Heaven-world of our ancestors.  But poet and artist are rarely self-
conscious of the processes of their own minds.  They deliver their
message with exultation but they find nothing worth recording in
the descent upon them of the fiery tongues.  So our poet has told
us little about himself but much about circumstance, and I recall
in his pages the Dublin of thirty years ago, and note how faithful
the memory of eye and ear are, and how forgetful the heart is of
its own fancies.  Is nature behind this distaste for intimate self-
analysis in the poet?  Are our own emanations poisonous to us if
we do not rapidly clear ourselves of them?  Is it best to forget
ourselves and hurry away once the deed is done or the end is attained
to some remoter valley in the Golden World and look for a new beauty
if we would continue to create beauty?

I know how readily our poet forgets his own songs.  I once quoted
to him some early verses of his own as comment on something he
had said.  He asked eagerly "Who wrote that?" and when I said "Do
you not remember?" he petulantly waved the poem aside for he had
forsaken his past.  Again at a later period he told me his early
verses sometimes aroused him to a frenzy of dislike.  Of the feelings
which beset the young poet of genius little or nothing is revealed
in this Reverie.  Yet what would we not give for a book which would
tell how beauty beset that youth in his walks about Dublin and Sligo;
how the sensitive response to color, form, music and tradition began,
how he came to recognize the moods which incarnated in him as immortal
moods.  Perhaps it is too much to expect from the creative imagination
that it shall also be capable of exact and subtle analysis.  In this
work I walk down the streets of Dublin I walked with Yeats over
thirty years ago.  I mix with the people who then were living in
the city, O'Leary, Taylor, Dowden, Hughes and the rest;  but the
poet himself does not walk with me.  It is a new voice speaking of
the past of others, pointing out the doorways entered by dead youth.
The new voice has distinction and dignity of its own, and we are
grateful for this history, others more so than myself, because most
of what is written therein I knew already, and I wanted a secret
which is not revealed.  I wanted to know more about the working of
the imagination which planted the little snow-white feet in the
sally garden, and which heard the kettle on the hob sing peace into
the breast, and was intimate with twilight and the creatures that
move in the dusk and undergrowths, with weasel, heron, rabbit, hare,
mouse and coney;  which plucked the Flower of Immortality in the
Island of Statues and wandered with Usheen in Timanogue.  I wanted
to know what all that magic-making meant to the magician, but he
has kept his own secret, and I must be content and grateful to one
who has revealed more of beauty than any other in his time.

1916


THE POETRY OF JAMES STEPHENS


For a generation the Irish bards have endeavored to live in a palace
of art, in chambers hung with the embroidered cloths and made dim
with pale lights and Druid twilights, and the melodies they most
sought for were half soundless.  The art of an early age began
softly, to end its songs with a rhetorical blare of sound.  The
melodies of the new school began close to the ear and died away in
distances of the soul.  Even as the prophet of old was warned to
take off his shoes because the place he stood on was holy ground,
so it seemed for a while in Ireland as if no poet could be accepted
unless he left outside the demesnes of poetry that very useful animal,
the body, and lost all concern about its habits.  He could not enter
unless he moved with the light and dreamy foot-fall of spirit.  Mr.
Yeats was the chief of this eclectic school, and his poetry at its
best is the most beautiful in Irish literature.  But there crowded
after him a whole horde of verse-writers, who seized the most obvious
symbols he used and standardized them, and in their writings one
wandered about, gasping for fresh air land sunlight, for the Celtic
soul seemed bound for ever pale lights of fairyland on the north
and by the by the darkness of forbidden passion on the south, and
on the east by the shadowiness of all things human, and on the west
by everything that was infinite, without form, and void.

It was a great relief to me, personally, who had lived in the
palace of Irish art for a time, and had even contributed a little
to its dimness, to hear outside the walls a few years ago a sturdy
voice blaspheming against all the formula, and violating the tenuous
atmosphere with its "Insurrections."  There are poets who cannot
write with half their being, and who must write with their whole
being, and they bring their poor relation, the body, with them
wherever they go, and are not ashamed of it.  They are not at
warfare with the spirit, but have a kind of instinct that the clan
of human powers ought to cling together as one family.  With the
best poets of this school, like Shakespeare and Whitman, one rarely
can separate body and soul, for we feel the whole man is speaking.
With Keats, Shelley, Swinburne, and our own Yeats, one feels that
they have all sought shelter from disagreeable actualities in the
world of imagination.  James Stephens, as he chanted his Insurrections,
sang with his whole being.  Let no one say I am comparing him with
Shakespeare.  One may say the blackbird has wings as well as the eagle,
without insisting that the bird in the hedgerows is peer of the winged
creature beyond the mountain-tops.  But how refreshing it was to find
somebody who was a poet without a formula, who did not ransack
dictionaries for dead words, as Rossetti did to get living speech,
whose natural passions declared themselves without the least idea
that they ought to be ashamed of themselves, or be thrice refined
in the crucible by the careful alchemist before they could appear
in the drawing-room.  Nature has an art of its own, and the natural
emotions in their natural and passionate expression have that kind
of picturesque beauty which Marcus Aurelius, tired, perhaps, of the
severe orthodoxies of Greek and Roman art, referred to when he spoke
of the foam on the jaws of the wild boar and the mane of the lion.

There were evidences of such an art in Insurrections, the first
book of James Stephens.  In the poem called "Fossils," the girl
who flies and the boy who hunts her are followed in flight and
pursuit with a swift energy by the poet, and the lines pant and
gasp, and the figures flare up and down the pages.  The energy
created a new form in verse, not an orthodox beauty, which the
classic artists would have admitted, but such picturesque beauty
as Marcus Aurelius found in the foam on the jaws of the wild boar.

I always want to find the fundamental emotion out of which a poet
writes.  It is easy to do this with some, with writers like Shelley
and Wordsworth, for they talked much of abstract things, and a man
never reveals himself so fully as when he does this, when he tries
to interpret nature, when he has to fill darkness with light, and
chaos with meaning.  A man may speak about his own heart and may
deceive himself and others, but ask him to fill empty space with
significance, and what he projects on that screen will be himself,
and you can know him even as hereafter he will be known.  When a
poet puts his ear to a shell, I know if he listens long enough he
will hear his own destiny.  I knew after reading "The Shell" that
in James Stephens we were going to have no singer of the abstract.
There was no human quality or stir in the blind elemental murmur,
and the poet drops it with a sigh of relief:

     O, it was sweet
     To hear a cart go jolting down the street.

From the tradition of the world too he breaks away, from the great
murmuring shell which gives back to us our cries and questionings
and protests soothed into soft, easeful things and smooth orthodox
complacencies, for it was shaped by humanity to whisper back to it
what it wished to hear.  From all soft, easeful beliefs and silken
complacencies the last Irish poet breaks away in a book of
insurrections.  He is doubtful even of love, the greatest orthodoxy
of any, which so few have questioned, which has preceded all religions
and will survive them all.  When he writes of love in "The Red-haired
Man's Wife" and "The Rebel" he is not sure that that old intoxication
of self-surrender is not a wrong to the soul and a disloyalty to the
highest in us.  His "Dancer" revolts from the applauding crowd.  The
wind cries out against the inference that the beauty of nature points
inevitably to an equal beauty of spirit within.  His enemies revolt
against their hate;  his old man against his own grumblings, and
the poet himself rebels against his own revolt in that quaint scrap
of verse he prefixes to the volume:

     What's the use
     Of my abuse?
     The world will run
     Around the sun
     As it has done
     Since time begun
     When I have drifted to the deuce:
     And what's the use
     Of my abuse?

He does not revolt against the abstract like so many because he
is incapable of thinking.  Indeed, he is one of the few Irish poets
we have who is always thinking as he goes along.  He does not rebel
against love because he is not himself sweet at heart, for the best
thing in the book is its unfeigned humanity.  So we have a personal
puzzle to solve with this perplexing writer which makes us all the
more eager to hear him again.  A man might be difficult to understand
and the problem of his personality might not be worth solution, but
it is not so with James Stephens.  From a man who can write with
such power as he shows in these two stanzas taken from "The Street
behind Yours" we may expect high things.  It is a vision seen with
distended imagination as if by some child strayed from light:

     And though 'tis silent, though no sound
     Crawls from the darkness thickly spread,
     Yet darkness brings
     Grim noiseless things
     That walk as they were dead,
     They glide and peer and steal around
     With stealthy silent tread.

     You dare not walk; that awful crew
     Might speak or laugh as you pass by.
     Might touch or paw
     With a formless claw
     Or leer from a sodden eye,
     Might whisper awful things they knew,
     Or wring their hands and cry.

There is nothing more grim and powerful than that in The City of
Dreadful Night.  It has all the vaporous horror of a Dore grotesque
and will bear examination better.  But our poet does not as a rule
write with such unrelieved gloom.  He keeps a stoical cheerfulness,
and even when he faces terrible things we feel encouraged to take
his hand and go with him, for he is master of his own soul, and you
cannot get a whimper out of him.  He likes the storm of things, and
is out for it.  He has a perfect craft in recording wild natural
emotions.  The verse in this first book has occasional faults, but
as a rule the lines move, driven by that inner energy of emotion
which will sometimes work more metrical wonders than the most
conscious art.  The words hiss at you sometimes, as in "The Dancer,"
and again will melt away with the delicacy of fairy bells as in
"The Watcher," or will run like deep river water, as in "The
Whisperer," which in some moods I think is the best poem in the
book until I read "Fossils" or "What Tomas an Buile said in a Pub."
They are too long to print, but I must give myself the pleasure
of quoting the beautiful "Slan Leat," with which he concludes the book,
bidding us, not farewell, but to accompany him on further adventure:

     And now, dear heart, the night is closing in,
     The lamps are not yet ready, and the gloom
     Of this sad winter evening, and the din
     The wind makes in the streets fills all the room.
     You have listened to my stories--Seumas Beg
     Has finished the adventures of his youth,
     And no more hopes to find a buried keg
     Stuffed to the lid with silver.  He, in truth,
     And all alas! grew up: but he has found
     The path to truer romance, and with you
     May easily seek wonders.  We are bound
     Out to the storm of things, and all is new.
     Give me your hand, so, keeping close to me,
     Shut tight your eyes, step forward ... where are we?

Our new Irish poet declared he was bound "out to the storm of things,"
and we all waited with interest for his next utterance.  Would he
wear the red cap as the poet of the social revolution, now long
overdue in these islands, or would he sing the Marsellaise of womanhood,
emerging in hordes from their underground kitchens to make a still
greater revolution?  He did neither.  He forgot all about the storm
of things, and delighted us with his story of Mary, the charwoman's
daughter, a tale of Dublin life, so, kindly, so humane, so vivid,
so wise, so witty, and so true, that it would not be exaggerating
to say that natural humanity in Ireland found its first worthy
chronicler in this tale.

We have a second volume of poetry from James Stephens, The Hill of
Vision.  He has climbed a hill, indeed, but has found cross roads
there leading in many directions, and seems to be a little perplexed
whether the storm of things was his destiny after all.  When one
is in a cave there is only one road which leads out, but when one
stands in the sunlight there are endless roads.  We enjoy his
perplexity, for he has seated himself by his cross-roads, and has
tried many tunes on his lute, obviously in doubt which sounds sweetest
to his own ear.  I am not at all in doubt as to what is best, and I
hope he will go on like Whitman, carrying "the old delicious burdens,
men and women," wherever he goes.  For his references to Deity,
Plato undoubtedly would have expelled him from his Republic;  and
justly so, for James Stephens treats his god very much as the
African savage treats his fetish.  Now it is supplicated, and the
next minute the idol is buffeted for an unanswered prayer or a
neglected duty, and then a little later our Irish African is crooning
sweetly with his idol, arranging its domestic affairs and the marriage
of Heaven and Earth.  Sometimes our poet essays the pastoral, and
in sheer gaiety:  flies like any bird under the boughs, and up into
the sunlight.  There are in his company imps and grotesques, and
fauns and satyrs, who come summoned by his piping.  Sometimes, as
in "Eve," the poem of the mystery of womanhood, he is purely beautiful,
but I find myself going back to his men and women;  and I hope he
will not be angry with me when I say I prefer his tinker drunken to
his Deity sober.  None of our Irish poets has found God, at least a
god any but themselves would not be ashamed to acknowledge.  But
our poet does know his men and his women.  They are not the shadowy,
Whistler-like decorative suggestions of humanity made by our poetic
dramatists.  They have entered like living creatures into his mind,
and they break out there in an instant's unforgettable passion or
agony, and the wild words fly up to the   poet's brain to match
their emotion.  I do not know whether the verses entitled "The Brute"
are poetry, but they have an amazing energy of expression.

But our poet can be beautiful when he wills, and sometimes, too,
he has largeness and grandeur of vision and expression.  Look at
this picture of the earth, seen from mid-heaven:

     And so he looked to where the earth, asleep,
     Rocked with the moon.  He saw the whirling sea
     Swing round the world in surgent energy,
     Tangling the moonlight in its netted foam,
     And nearer saw the white and fretted dome
     Of the ice-capped pole spin back a larded ray
     To whistling stars, bright as a wizard's day,
     But these he passed with eyes intently wide,
     Till closer still the mountains he espied,
     Squatting tremendous on the broad-backed earth,
     Each nursing twenty rivers at a birth.

I would like to quote the verses entitled "Shame."  Never have I
read anywhere such an anguished cowering before Conscience, a mighty
creature full of eyes within and without, and pointing fingers and
asped tongues, anticipating in secret the blazing condemnation of
the world.  And there is "Bessie Bobtail," staggering down the
streets with her reiterated, inarticulate expression of grief,
moving like one of those wretched whom Blake described in a
marvelous phrase as "drunken with woe forgotten";  and there is
"Satan," where the reconcilement of light and darkness in the
twilights of time is perfectly and imaginatively expressed.

The Hill of Vision is a very unequal book.  There are many verses
full of power, which move with the free easy motion of the literary
athlete.  Others betray awkwardness, and stumble as if the writer
had stepped too suddenly into the sunlight of his power, and was
dazed and bewildered.  There is some diffusion of his faculties
in what I feel are byways of his mind, but the main current of
his energies will, I am convinced, urge him on to his inevitable
portrayal of humanity.  With writers like Synge and Stephens the
Celtic imagination is leaving its Timanoges, its Ildathachs, its
Many Colored Lands and impersonal moods, and is coming down to
earth intent on vigorous life and individual humanity.  I can see
that there are great tales to be told and great songs to be sung,
and I watch the doings of the new-comers with sympathy, all the
while feeling I am somewhat remote from their world, for I belong
to an earlier day, and listen to these robust songs somewhat as a
ghost who hears the cock crow, and knows his hours are over, and
he and his tribe must disappear into tradition.

1912


A NOTE ON SEUMAS O'SULLIVAN


As I grow older I get more songless. I am now exiled irrevocably
from the Country of the Young, but I hope I can listen without
jealousy and even with delight to those who still make music in
the enchanted land.  I often searched in the "Poet's Corner" of
the country papers with a wild surmise that there, amid reports of
Boards of Guardians and Rural Councils, some poetic young kinsman
may be taking council with the stars, watching more closely the
Plough in the furrows of the heavens than the county instructor at
his task of making farmers drive the plough straight in the fields.
I found many years ago in a country paper a local poet making
genuine music.  I remember a line:

     And hidden rivers were murmuring in the dark.

     I went on in the strength of this poem through the desert
of country journalism for many years, hoping to find more hidden
rivers of song murmuring in the darkness.  It was a patient life
of unrequited toil, and I have returned to civilization to search
publishers' lists for more easily procurable pleasure.  A few years
ago I mined out of the still darker region of manuscripts some
poetic crystals which I thought were valuable, and edited New Songs.
Nearly all my young singers have since then taken flight on their
own account.  Some have volumes in the booksellers and some in the
hands of the printers.  But there is one shy singer of the group
of writers in New Songs who might easily get overlooked because
his verse takes little or no thought of the past or present or
future of his country:  yet the slim book in which is collected
Seumas O'Sullivan's verses reveals a true poet, and if he is too
shy to claim his country in his verses there is no reason why his
country should not claim him, for he is in his way as Irish as any
of our singers.  He is, as Mr. W. B. Yeats was in his earlier days,
the literary successor of those old Gaelic poets who were fastidious
in their verse, who loved little in this world but some chance
light in it which reminded them of fairyland, or who, if they were
in love, loved their mistress less for her own sake than because
some turn of her head, or "a foam-pale breast," carried their
impetuous imaginations past her beauty into memories of Helen of
Troy, Deirdre, or some other symbol of that remote and perfect
beauty which, however man desires, he shall embrace only at the
end of time.  I think the wives or mistresses of these old poets
must have been very unhappy, for women wish to be loved for what
they know about themselves, and for the tenderness which is in
their hearts, and not because some colored twilight invests them
with a shadowy beauty not their own, and which they know they can
never carry into the light of day.  These poets of the transient
look and the evanescent light do not help us to live our daily life,
but they do something which is as necessary.  They educate and
refine the spirit so that it shall not come altogether without any
understanding of delicate loveliness into the Kingdom of Heaven,
or gaze on Timanoge with the crude blank misunderstanding of Cockney
tourists staring up at the stupendous dreams pictured on the roof
of the Sistine Chapel.  These fastidious scorners of every day and
its interests are always looking through nature for "the herbs
before they were in the field and every flower before it grew,"
and through women for the Eve who was in the imagination of the
Lord before she was embodied, and we all need this refining vision
more than we know.  It may be asked of us hereafter when we would
mount up into the towers of vision, "How can you desire the beauty
you have not seen, who have not sought or loved its shadow in the
world?" and the Gates of Ivory may not swing open at our knock.
This will never be said to Seumas O'Sullivan, who is always waiting
on the transient look and the evanescent light to build up out of
their remembered beauty the Kingdom of his Heaven:

     Round you light tresses, delicate,
     Wind blown, wander and climb
     Immortal, transitory.

Earth has no steady beauty as the calm-eyed immortals have, but
their image glimmers on the waves of time, and out of what instantly
vanishes we can build up something within us which may yet grow
into a calm-eyed immortality of loveliness, we becoming gradually
what we dream of.  I have heard people complain of the frailty of
these verses of Seumas O'Sullivan.  They want war songs, plough songs,
to nerve the soul to fight or the hand to do its work.  I will never
make that complaint.  I will only complain if the strife or the
work ever blunt my senses so that I will pass by with an impatient
disdain these delicate snatchings at a beauty which is ever fleeting.
But I would ask him to remember that life never allures us twice
with exactly the same enchantment.  Never again will that tress
drift like a woven wind made visible out of Paradise;  never again
will that lifted hand, foam-pale, seem like the springing up of
beauty in the world;  never a second time will that white brow
remind him of the wonderful white towers of the city of the gods.
To seek a second inspiration is to receive only a second-rate
inspiration, and our poet is a little too fond of lingering in his
verse round a few things, a face, the swaying poplars, or sighing
reeds which had once piped an alluring music in his ears, and which
he longs to hear again. He lives not in too frail a world, but in
too narrow a world, and he should adventure out into new worlds
in the old quest.  He, has become a master of delicate and musical
rhythms.  I remember reading Seumas O'Sulivan's first manuscripts
with mingled pleasure and horror, for his lines often ran anyhow,
and scansion seemed to him an unknown art, but I feel humbly now
that he can get a subtle quality into his music which I could not
hope to acquire.  I would like him to catch some new and rare birds
with that subtle net of his, and to begin to invent more beauty of
his own and to seek for it less.  I believe he has got it in him
to do well, to do better than he has done if he will now try to use
his invention more.  The poems with a slight narrative in them,
like "The Portent" or the "Saint Anthony," seem to me the most
perfect, and it is in this direction, I think, he will succeed best.
He wants a story to keep him from beating musical and ineffective
wings in the void.  I have not said half what I want to say about
Seumas O'Sullivan's verses, but I know the world will not listen
long to the musings of one verse-writer on another.  I only hope
this note may send some readers to their bookseller for Seumas
O'Sullivan's poems, and that it may help them to study with more
understanding a mind that I love.

1909


ART AND LITERATURE


A LECTURE ON THE ART OF G. F. WATTS


After the publication of The Gentle Art of Making Enemies the writer
who ventures to speak of art and literature in the same breath needs
some courage.  Since the death of Whistler, his opinions about the
independence of art from the moral ideas with which literature is
preoccupied have been generally accepted in the studios.  The artist
who is praised by a literary man would hardly be human if he was
not pleased;  but he listens with impatience to any criticism or
suggestion about the substance of his art or the form it should take.
I had a friend, an artist of genius, and when we were both young
we argued together about art on equal terms.  It had not then
occurred to him that any intelligence I might have displayed in
writing verse did not entitle me to an opinion about modeling;  but
one day I found him reading Mr. Whistler's Ten O'clock.  The revolt
of art against literature had reached Ireland.  After that, while
we were still good friends, he made me feel that I was an outsider,
and when I ventured to plead for a national character in sculpture,
his righteous anger--I might say his ferocity--forced me to talk
of something else.

I was not convinced he was right, but years after I began to use
the brush a little, and I remember painting a twilight from love
of some strange colors and harmonious lines, and when one of my
literary friends found that its interest depended on color and form,
and that the idea in it could not readily be translated into words,
and that it left him wishing that I would illustrate my poems or
something that had a meaning, I veered round at once and understood
Whistler, and how foolish I was to argue with John Hughes.  I joined
in the general insurrection of art against the domination of literature.
But being a writer and much concerned with abstract ideas, I have never
had the comfort and happiness of those who embrace this opinion with
their whole being, and when I was asked to lecture, I thought that
as I had no Irish Whistler to fear, I might speak of art in relation
to these universal ideas which artists hold are for literature and
not subject matter for art at all.

I must first say it was not my wish to speak.  With a world of
noble and immortal forms all about us, it seemed to me as unfitting
that words without art or long labor in their making should be
advertised as an attraction;  that any one should be expected to
sit here for an hour to listen to me or another upon a genius which
speaks for itself.  I was overruled by Mr. Lane.  But it is all wrong,
this desire to hear and hold opinions about art rather than to be
moved by the art itself.  I know twenty charlatans who will talk
about art, but never lift their eyes to look at the pictures on
the wall.  I remember an Irish poet speaking about art a whole
evening in a room hung round with pictures by Constable, Monet,
and others, and he came into that room and went out of it without
looking at those pictures.  His interest in art was in the holding
of opinions about it, and in hearing other opinions, which he could
again talk about.  I hope I have made some of you feel uncomfortable.
This may, perhaps, seem malicious, but it is necessary to release
artists from the dogmas of critics who are not artists.

I would not venture to speak here tonight if I thought that anything
I said could be laid hold of and be turned into a formula, and used
afterwards to torment some unfortunate artist.  An artist will take
with readiness advice or criticism from a fellow-artist, so far as
his natural vanity permits;  but he writhes under opinions derived
from Ruskin or Tolstoi, the great theorists.  You may ask indignantly,
Can no one, then, speak about paintings or statues except painters
or modelers?  No;  no one would condemn you to such painful silence
and self-suppression.  Artists would wish you to talk unceasingly
about the emotions their pain of making pictures arouse in you;
but, under lifelong enemies, do not suggest to artists the theories
under which they should paint.  That is hitting below the belt.  The
poor artist is as God made him;  and no one, not even a Tolstoi,
is competent to undertake his re-creation.  His fellow-artists
will pass on to him the tradition of using the brush.  He may use
it well or ill;  but when you ask him to use his art to illustrate
literary ideas, or ethical ideas, you are asking him to become a
literary man or a preacher.   The other arts have their obvious
limitations.  The literary man does not dare to demand of the
musician that he shall be scientific or moral.  The latter is safe
in uttering every kind of profanity in sound so long as it is music.
Musicians have their art to themselves.  But the artist is tormented,
and asked to reflect the thought of his time.  Beauty is primarily
what he is concerned with; and the only moral ideas which he can
impart in a satisfactory way are the moral ideas naturally associated
with beauty in its higher or lower forms.  But I think, some of you
are confuting me in your own minds at this moment.  You say to
yourselves:  "But we have all about us the works of great artists
whose inspiration not one will deny.  He used his art to express
great ethical ideas.  He spoke again and again about these ideas.
He was proud that his art was dedicated to their expression."  I am
sorry to say that he did say many things which would have endeared
him to Tolstoi and Ruskin, and for which I respect him as a man,
and which as an artist I deplore.   I deplore his speaking of ethical
ideas as the inspiration of his art, because I think they were only
the inspiration of his life;  and where he is weakest in his appeal
as an artist is where he summons consciously to his aid ethical
ideas which find their proper expression in religion or literature
or life.

Watts wished to ennoble art by summoning to its aid the highest
conceptions of literature;  but in doing so he seems to me to imply
that art needed such conceptions for its justification, that the
pure artist mind, careless of these ideas, and only careful to make
for itself a beautiful vision of things, was in a lower plane, and
had a less spiritual message.  Now that I deny.  I deny absolutely
that art needs to call to its aid, in order to justify or ennoble
it, any abstract ideas about love or justice or mercy.

It may express none of these ideas, and yet express truths of its
own as high and as essential to the being of man;  and it is in
spite of himself, in spite of his theories, that the work of Watts
will have an enduring place in the history of art.  You will ask
then, "Can art express no moral ideas?  Is it unmoral?"  In the
definite and restricted sense in which the words "ethical" and
"moral" are generally used, art is, and must by its nature be unmoral.
I do not mean "immoral," and let no one represent me as saying art
must be immoral by its very nature.  There are dear newspaper men
to whom it would be a delight to attribute to me such a saying;
and never to let me forget that I said it.  When I say that art is
essentially unmoral, I mean that the first impulse to paint comes
from something seen, either beauty of color or form or tone.  It
may be light which attracts the artist, or it may be some dimming
of natural forms, until they seem to have more of the loveliness
of mind than of nature.  But it is the aesthetic, not the moral
or ethical, nature which is stirred.  The picture may afterwards
be called "Charity," or "Faith," or "Hope"--and any of these words
may make an apt title.  But what looms up before the vision of the
artist first of all is an image, and that is accepted on account
of its fitness for a picture;  and an image which was not pictorial
would be rejected at once by any true artist, whether it was an
illustration of the noblest moral conception or not.  Whether a
picture is moral or immoral will depend upon the character of the
artist, and not upon the subject.  A man will communicate his
character in everything he touches.  He cannot escape communicating
it.  He must be content with that silent witness, and not try to
let the virtues shout out from his pictures.  The fact is, art is
essentially a spiritual thing, and its vision is perpetually turned
to Ultimates.  It is indefinable as spirit is.  It perceives in
life and nature those indefinable relations of one thing to another
which to the religious thinker suggest a master mind in nature--a
magician of the beautiful at work from hour to hour, from moment
to moment, in a never-ceasing and solemn chariot motion in the
heavens, in the perpetual and marvelous breathing forth of winds,
in the motion of waters, and in the unending evolution of gay and
delicate forms of leaf and wing.

The artist may be no philosopher, no mystic;  he may be with or
without a moral sense, he may not believe in more than his eye can
see;  but in so far as he can shape clay into beautiful and moving
forms he is imitating Deity;  when his eye has caught with delight
some subtle relation between color and color there is mysticism
in his vision.  I am not concerned here to prove that there is a
spirit in nature or humanity;  but for those who ask from art a
serious message, here, I say, is a way of receiving from art an
inspiration the most profound that man can receive.  When you ask
from the artist that he should teach you, be careful that you are
not asking him to be obvious, to utter platitudes--that you are
not asking him to debase his art to make things easy for you, who
are too indolent to climb to the mountain, but want it brought to
your feet.  There are people who pass by a nocturne by Whistler,
a misty twilight by Corot, and who whisper solemnly before a Noel
Paton as if they were in a Cathedral.  Is God, then, only present
when His Name is uttered?  When we call a figure Time or Death,
does it add dignity to it?  What is the real inspiration we derive
from that noble design by Mr. Watts?  Not the comprehension of Time,
not the nature of Death, but a revelation human form can express
of the heroic dignity.  Is it not more to us to know that man or
woman can look half-divine, that they can wear an aspect such as
we imagine belongs to the immortals, and to feel that if man is
made in the image of his Creator, his Creator is the archetype of
no ignoble thing?  There were immortal powers in Watts' mind when
those figures surged up in it;  but they were neither Time nor Death.
He was rather near to his own archetype, and in that mood in which
Emerson was when he said, "I the imperfect adore my own perfect."
Touch by touch, as the picture was built up, he was becoming
conscious of some interior majesty in his own nature, and it was
for himself more than for us he worked.  "The oration is to the
orator," says Whitman, "and comes most back to him."  The artist,
too, as he creates a beautiful form outside himself, creates
within himself, or admits to his being a nobler beauty than his
eyes have seen.  His inspiration is spiritual in its origin, and
there is always in it some strange story of the glory of the King.

With man and his work we must take either a spiritual or a material
point of view.  All half-way beliefs are temporary and illogical.
I prefer the spiritual with its admission of incalculable mystery
and romance in nature, where we find the infinite folded in the atom,
and feel how in the unconscious result and labor of man's hand the
Eternal is working Its will.  You may say that this belongs more to
psychology than to art criticism, but I am trying to make clear to
you and to myself the relation which the mind which is in literature
may rightly bear to the vision which is art.  Are literature and
ethics to dictate to Art its subjects?  Is it right to demand that
the artist's work shall have an obviously intelligible message or
meaning, which the intellect can abstract from it and relate to
the conduct of life?  My belief is that the most literature can do
is to help to interpret art, and that art offers to it, as nature
does, a vision of beauty, but of undefined significance.

No one asks or expects the clouds to shape themselves into ethical
forms, or the sun to shine only on the just and not on the unjust
also.  It is vain to expect it, but there is something written
about the heavens declaring the beauty of the Creator and the
firmament showing His handiwork.  If the artist can bring whatever
of that vision has touched him into his work we should ask no more,
and must not expect him to be more righteously minded than his
Creator, or to add a finishing tag of moral to justify it all, to
show that Deity is solemnly minded and no mere idle trifler with
beauty like Whistler.

I have stated my belief that art is spiritual, that its genuine
inspirations come from a higher plane of our being than the ethical
or intellectual;  and I think wherever literature or ethics have
so dominated the mind of the artist that they change the form of
his inspiration, his art loses its own peculiar power and gains
nothing.  We have here a picture of "Love steering the bark of
Humanity."  I may put it rather crudely when I say that pictures
like this are supposed to exert a power on the man who, for example,
would beat his wife, so that love will be his after inspiration.
Anyhow, ethical pictures are painted with some such intention belief.
Now, art has great influence, but I do not believe this or any other
picture would stop a man beating his wife if he wanted to.  Art does
not call sinners to repentance;  that is not one of its powers.  It
fulfils rather another saying:  "Unto them that have much shall be
given," bringing delight to those that are already sensitive to
beauty.  My own conviction is that ethical pictures are, if anything,
immoral in their influence, as everything must be that forsakes
the law of its own being, and that pictures like this only add to
the vanity of people so righteously minded as to be aware of their
own virtue.  We will always have these concessions to passing phases
of thought.  We have had requests for the scientific painter--the
man who will paint nature with geological accuracy, and man in
accordance with evolutionary dogmas.  He will find his eloquent
literary defenders enchanted to find so much learning to point to
in his work, but it will all pass.  The true artist will still be
instinctively spiritual.

Now I have used the word "spiritual" so often in connection with
art that you may reasonably ask for some definition of my meaning.
I am afraid it is easier to define spirituality in literature than
in art.  But a literary definition may help.  Spirituality is the
power certain minds have of apprehending formless spiritual essences,
of seeing the eternal in the transitory, of relating the particular
to the universal, the type to the archetype.

While I give this definition, I hope no artist will ever be insane
enough to make it the guiding principle of his art.  I shudder to
think of any conscious attempt in a picture to relate the type to
the archetype.  It is a philosophical definition, solely intended
for the spectator.  I wish the artist only to paint his vision,
and whether he paints this, or another world he imagines, if it is
art it will be spiritual.  I have given a definition of spirituality
in literature, but how now relate it to art?  How illustrate its
presence?  When Pater wrote his famous description of the Mona Lisa,
that intense and enigmatic face had evoked a spiritual mood.  When
he saw in it the summed-up experience of many generations of humanity,
he felt in the picture that relation of the particular to the universal
I have spoken of.  When we find human forms suggesting a superhuman
dignity, as in Watts' figures of Time and Death, or in the Phidian
marbles, the type is there melting into the archetype.  When Millet
paints a peasant figure of today with some gesture we imagine the
first Sower must have used, it is the eternal in it which makes
the transitory impressive.  But these are obvious instances, you
will say, chosen from artists whose pictures lend themselves to
this kind of exposition.  What about the art of the landscape painter?
Undeniably a form of art, where is the spirituality?

I am afraid my intellect is not equal to talking up every picture
that might be suggested and using it to illustrate my meaning,
though I do not think I would despair of finally discovering the
spiritual element in any picture I felt was art.  However, I will
go further.  We have all felt some element of art lacking in the
painter who goes to Killarney, Italy, or Switzerland, and brings
us back a faithful representation of undeniably beautiful places.
It is all there--the lofty mountains, the lakes, the local color;
but what enchanted us in nature does not touch us in the picture.
What we want is the spirit of the place evoked in us rather than
the place itself.  Art is neither pictured botany or geology.  A
great landscape is the expression of a mood of the human mind as
definitely as music or poetry is.  The artist is communicating his
own emotions.  There is some mystic significance in the color he
employs;  and then the doorways are opened, and we pass from sense
into soul.  We are looking into a soul when we are looking at a
Turner, a Carot, or a Whistler, as surely as when in dream we find
ourselves moving in strange countries which are yet within us,
contained for all their seeming infinitudes in the little hollow
of the brain.  All this, I think, is undeniable;  but perhaps not
many of you will follow me, though you may understand me, if I go
further and say, that in this, art is unconsciously also reaching
out to archetypes, is lifting itself up to walk in that garden of
the divine mind where, as the first Scripture says, it created
"flowers before they were in the field and every herb before it
grew."  A man may sit in an armchair and travel farther than ever
Columbus traveled;  and no one can say how far Turner, in his search
after light, had not journeyed into the lost Eden, and he himself
may have been there most surely at the last when his pictures had
become a blaze of incoherent light.

You may say now that I have objected to literature dominating the
arts, and yet I have drawn from pictures a most complicated theory.
I have felt a little, indeed, as if I was marching through subtleties
to the dismemberment of my mind, but I do not think I have anywhere
contradicted myself or suggested that an artist should work on
these speculations.  These may rightly arise in the mind of the
onlooker who will regard a work of art with his whole nature, not
merely with the aesthetic sense, and who will naturally pass from
the first delight of vision into a psychological analysis.  A
profound nature will always awaken profound reflections.  There
are heads by Da Vinci as interesting in their humanity as Hamlet.
When we see eyes that tempt and allure with lips virginal in their
purity, we feel in the face a union of things which the dual nature
of man is eternally desiring.  It is the marriage of heaven and hell,
the union of spirit and flesh, each with their uncurbed desires;
and what is impossible in life is in his art, and is one of the
secrets of its strange fascination.  It may seem paradoxical to
say of Watts--a man of genius, who was always preaching through his
art--that it is very difficult to find what he really expresses.
No one is ever for a moment in doubt about what is expressed by
Rossetti, Turner, Millet, Corot, or many contemporary artists who
never preached at all, but whose mood or vision peculiar to themselves
is easily definable.  With Watts the effort at analyses is confused:
first by his own statement about the ethical significance of his
works, which I think misleading, because while we may come away
from his pictures with many feelings of majesty or beauty or mystery,
the ethical spirit is not the predominant one.  That rapturous winged
spirit which he calls Love Triumphant might just as easily be called
Music or Song, and another allegory be attached to it without our
feeling any more special fitness or unfitness in the explanation.
I see a beautiful exultant figure, but I do not feel love as the
fundamental mood in the painter, as I feel the religious mood is
fundamental in the Angelus of Millet.  I do not need to look for
a title to that or for the painting of The Shepherdess to feel how
earth and her children have become one in the vision of the painter;
that the shepherdess is not the subject, nor the sheep, nor the
still evening, but altogether are one mood, one being, in which
all things move in harmony and are guided by the Great Shepherd.
Well, I do not feel that Love;  or Charity, or Hope are expressed in
this way in Watts, and that the ethical spirit is not fundamental with
him as the religious spirit is with Millet.  He has an intellectual
conception of his moral idea, but is not emotionally obsessed by it,
and the basis of a man's art is not to be found in his intellectual
conceptions, which are light things, but in his character or rather
in his temperament.  We know, for all the poetical circumstances of
Rossetti's pictures, what desire it is that shines out of those
ardent faces, and how with Leighton "the form alone is eloquent,"
and that Tumer's God was light as surely as with any Persian
worshipper of the sun.  Here and there they may have been tempted
otherwise, but they never strayed far from their temperamental way
of expressing themselves in art.  So that the first thing to be
dismissed in trying to understand Watts is Watts' own view of his
art and its inspiration.  He is not the first distinguished man
whose intellect has not proved equal to explaining rightly its
sources of power.  Our next difficulty in discovering the real
Watts arises because he did not look at nature or life directly.
He was overcome by great traditions.  He almost persistently looks
at nature through one or two veils.  There is a Phidian veil and
a Venetian or rather an Italian veil, and almost everything in life
and nature which could not be expressed in terms of these traditions
he ignored.  I might say that no artist of equal genius ever painted
pictures and brought so little fresh observation into his art except,
perhaps, Burne-Jones.  Both these artists seem to have a secret and
refined sympathy with Fuseli's famous outburst, "Damn Nature, she
always puts me out!"  Even when the sitter came, Watts seems to
have been uneasy unless he could turn him into a Venetian nobleman
or person of the Middle Ages, or could disguise in some way the
fact that Artist and Sitter belonged to the nineteenth century.  He
does not seem to be aware that people must breathe even in pictures.
His skies rest solidly on the shoulders of his figures as if they
were cut out to let the figures be inserted.  If he were not a man
of genius there would have been an end of him.  But he was a man of
genius, and we must try to understand the meaning of his acceptance
of tradition.  If we understand it in Watts we will understand a
great deal of contemporary art and literature which is called
derivative, art issuing out of art, and literature out of literature.

The fact is that this kind of art in which Watts and Burne-Jones
were pioneers is an art which has not yet come to its culmination
or to any perfect expression of itself.  There is a genuinely
individual impulse in it, and it is not derivative merely, although
almost every phase of it can be related to earlier art.  It has
nothing in common with the so-called grand school of painting which
produced worthless imitations of Michael Angelo and Raphael.  It
is feeling out for a new world, and it is trying to use the older
tradition as a bridge.  The older art held up a mirror to natural
forms and brought them nearer to man.  In the perfect culmination
of this new art one feels how a complete change might take place
and natural forms be used to express an internal nature or the
soul of the artist.  Colors and forms, like words after the lapse
of centuries, enlarge their significance.  The earliest art was
probably simple and literal--there may have been the outline of a
figure filled up with some flat color.  Then as art became more
complex, colors began to have an emotional meaning quite apart
from their original relation to an object.   The artist begins
unconsciously to relate color more intimately to his own temperament
than to external nature.  At last, after the lapse of ages, some
sensitive artist begins to imagine that he has discovered a complete
language capable of expressing any mood of mind.  The passing of
centuries has enriched every color, and left it related to some
new phase of the soul.  Phidian or Michael Angelesque forms gather
their own peculiar associations of divinity or power.  In fact,
this new art uses the forms of the old as symbols or hieroglyphs
to express more complicated ideas than the older artists tried
to depict.

Watts never attempted, for all his admiration of these men, to
follow them in their efforts to realize perfectly the forms that
they conceived.  They had done this once and for all, and repetition
may have seemed unnecessary.  But the lofty temper awakened by
those stupendous creations could be aroused by a suggestion of
their peculiar characteristics.  Association of ideas will in some
subtle way bring us back to the Phidian demigods when we look at
forms and draperies vaguely suggestive of the Parthenon.  I do not
say that Watt's did this consciously, but instinctively he felt
compelled, with the gradual development of his own mind, to use
the imaginative traditions created by other artists as a language
through which he might find expression  peculiar to himself.   It
is a highly intellectual art to which tradition was a necessity,
as much as it is to the poet, who when he speaks of "beauty" draws
upon a sentiment created by millions of long-dead lovers, or who,
when he thinks of the "spirit," is, in his use of the word, the
heir of countless generations who brooded upon the mysteries.

Just as in Millet, the painter of peasants, there was a religious
spirit shaping all things into austere and elemental simplicities,
so in Watts there was an intellectual spirit, seeking everywhere
for the traces of mind trying to express the bodiless and abstract.
With Whitman he seems to cry out, "The soul for ever and ever!"  It
is there in the astonishing head of Swinburne, whom he reveals, if
I may use a vulgar phrase, as a poetic "bounder," but illuminated
and etherealized by genius.  It is in the head of Mill, the very
symbol of the moral reasoning--mind.  It is in the face of Tennyson,
with its too self-conscious seership, and in all those vague faces
of the imaginative paintings, into which, to use Pater's phrase,
"the soul with all its maladies has passed."  In his pictures he
draws on the effects of earlier art, and throws his sitters back
until they seem to belong to some nondescript mediaeval country,
like the Bohemia of the dramatists;  and he darkens and shuts out
the light of day that this starlight of soul may be more clearly
seen, and destroys, as far as he can, all traces of the century
they live in, for the mind lives in all the ages, and he would show
it as the pilgrim of eternity.  Because Watts' art was necessarily
so brooding and meditative, looking at life with half-closed eyes
and then shutting them to be alone with memory and the interpreter,
his painting, so beautiful and full of surety in early pictures
like the Wounded Heron, grows to be often labored and muddy, and
his drawing uncertain.  That he could draw and paint with the greatest,
he every now and then gave proof;  but the surety of beautiful
craftsmanship deserts those who have not always their eye fixed on
an object of vision;  and Watts was not, like Blake or Shelley, one
of the proud seers whose visions are of "forms more real than living
man."  He seemed to feel what his effects should be rather than to
see them, or else his vision was fleeting and his art was a laborious
brooding to recapture the lost impression.  In his color he always
seems to me to be second-hand, as if the bloom and freshness of his
paint had worn off through previous use by other artists.  It seemed
to be a necessity of his curiously intellectual art that only
traditional colors and forms should be employed, and it is only
rarely we get the shock of a new creation, and absolutely original
design, as in Orpheus, where the passionate figure turns to hold
what is already a vanishing shadow.

Watts' art was an effort to invest his own age, an age of reason,
with the nobilities engendered in an age of faith.  At the time
Watts was at his prime his contemporaries were everywhere losing
belief in the spiritual conceptions of earlier periods;  they were
analyzing everything, and were deciding that what was really true
in religion, what gave it nobility, was its ethical teaching;
retain that, and religion might go, illustrating the truth of the
Chinese philosopher who said:  "When the spirit is lost, men follow
after charity and duty to one's neighbors."  The unity of belief
was broken up into diverse intellectual conceptions.  Men talked
about love and liberty, patriotism, duty, charity, and a whole
host of abstractions moral and intellectual, which they had
convinced themselves were the essence of religion and the real
cause of its power over man.  Whether Watts lost faith like his
contemporaries I do not know, but their spirit infected his art.
He set himself to paint these abstractions;  and because we cannot
imagine these abstractions with a form, we feel something
fundamentally false in this side of his art.  He who paints a man,
an angelic being, or a divine being, paints something we feel may
have life.  But it is impossible to imagine Time with a body as it
is to imagine a painting embodying Newton's law of gravitation.  It
is because such abstractions do not readily take shape that Watts
drew so much on the imaginative tradition of his predecessors.
Where these pictures are impressive is where the artist slipped by
his conscious aim, and laid hold of the nobility peculiar to the
men and women he used as symbols.  It is not Time or Death which
awes us in Watts' picture, but majestical images of humanity;  and
Watts is at his greatest as an inventor when humanity itself most
occupies him when he depicts human life only, and lets it suggest
its own natural infinity, as in those images of the lovers drifting
through the Inferno, with whom every passion is burnt out and
exhausted but the love through which they fell.

Life itself is more infinite, noble, and suggestive than thought.
We soon come to the end of the ingenious allegory.  It tells only
one story but where there is a perfect image of life there is
infinitude and mystery.  We do not tire considering the long
ancestry of expression in a face.  It may lead us back through
the ages;  but we do tire of the art which imprisons itself within
formulae, and says to the spectator:  "In this way and in no other
shall you regard what is before you."  No man is profound enough
to explain the nature of his own inspiration.  Socrates says that
the poet utters many things which are truer than he himself understands.
The same thing applies to many a great artist, who, when he paints
tree or field, or face, or form, finds that there comes on him a
mysterious quickening of his nature, and he paints he knows not what.
It is like and unlike what his eyes have seen.  It may be the same
field, but we feel there the presence of the spirit.  It may be the
same figure, but it is made transcendental, as when the Word had
become flesh and dwelt among us.  His inspiration is akin to that
of the prophets of old, whose words rang but for an instant and
were still, yet they created nations whose only boundaries were
the silences where their speech had not been heard.  His majestical
figures are prophecies.  His ecstatic landscapes bring us nigh to
the beauty which was in Eden.  His art is a divine adventure, in
which he, like all of us who are traveling in so many ways, seeks,
consciously or unconsciously, to regain the lost unity with nature
and the knowledge of his own immortal being, and it is so you will
best understand it.

1906


AN ARTIST OF GAELIC IRELAND


The art of Hone and the elder Yeats, while in spirit filled with a
sentiment which was the persistence of ancient moods into modern
times, still has not the external characteristics of Gaeldom; but
looking at the pictures of the younger Yeats it seemed to me that
for the first time we had something which could be called altogether
Gaelic.  The incompleteness of the sketches suggests the term "folk"
as expressing exactly the inspiration of this very genuine art.  We
have had abundance of Irish folk-lore, but we knew nothing of folk-art
until the figures of Jack Yeats first romped into our imagination a
few years ago.  It was the folk-feeling lit up by genius and
interpreted by love.  It was not, and is now less than ever, the
patronage bestowed by the intellectual artist on the evidently
picturesque forms of a life below his own.

I suspect Jack Yeats thinks the life of the Sligo fisherman is as
good a method of life as any, and that he could share it for a
long time without being in the least desirous of a return to the
comfortable life of convention.  The name of Muglas Hyde suggests
itself to me as a literary parallel.  These sketches have all the
prodigality of invention, the exuberance of gesture, and animation
of "The Twisting of the Rope," and the poetry is of as high or higher a
n order.  In the drawing called "Midsummer Eve" there is a mystery
which is not merely the mystery of night and shadow.  It is the
mystery of the mingling of spirit with spirit which is suggested
by the solitary figure with face upturned to the stars.  We have
all memories of such summer nights when into the charmed heart falls
the enchantment we call ancient, though the days have no fellows,
nor will ever have any, when the earth glows with the dusky hues
of rich pottery, and the stars, far withdrawn into faery altitudes,
dance with a gaiety which is more tremendous and solemn than any
repose.  The night of this picture is steeped in such a dream, and
I know not whether it is communicated, or a feeling arising in myself;
but there seems everywhere in it the breathing of life, subtle,
exultant, penetrating.  It is conceived in the mood of awe and prayer,
which makes Millet's pictures as religious as any whichever hung
over the altar, for surely the "Angelus" is one of the most spiritual
of pictures, though the peasants bow their heads and worship in a
temple not built with hands.  I do not, of course, compare otherwise
than in the mood the "Midsummer Eve" to such a masterpiece;  but
there is a kinship between the beauty revealed in great and in
little things, and our thought turns from the stars to the flowers
with no feeling of descent into an alien world.  But this mood is
rare in life as in art, and it is only occasionally that the younger
Yeats becomes the interpreter of the spirituality of the peasant.
He is more often the recorder of the extravagant energies of the
race-course and the market-place, where he finds herded together
all the grotesque humors of West Irish life.

We recognize his figures as distinctly Irish.  Here the old rollicking
Lever and Lover type of Irishmen reappear, hunting like the very devil,
with faces set in the last ecstasy of rapid motion.  There is an
excess of energy in these furious riders which almost gives them a
symbolic character.  They seem to ride on some passionate business
of the soul rather than for any transitory excitement of the body.
And besides these wild horse-men there are quiet and lovely figures
like "A Mother of the Rosses," holding her child to her breast in
an opalescent twilight, through which the boat that carries her moves.
There are always large and noble outlines, which suggest that if
Jack Yeats had more grandiose ambitions he might have been the Millet
of Irish rural life, but he is too much the symbolist, hating all
but essentials, to elaborate his art.

In writing of Jack Yeats mention must be made of his black and white
work, which at its best has a primitive intensity.  The lines have
a kind of Gothic quality, reminding one of the rude glooms, the
lights and lines of some half-barbarian cathedral.  They are very
expressive and never undecided.  The artist  always knows what he
is going to do.  There is no doubt he has a clear image before him
when he takes up pen or brush.  A strong will is always directing
the strong lines, forcing them to repeat an image present to the
inner eye.  In his early days Jack Yeats loafed about the quays at
Sligo, and we may be sure he was at all the races, and paid his
penny to go into the side-shows, and see the freaks, the Fat Woman
and the Skeleton Man.  It was probably at this period of his life
he was captured by pirates of the Spanish Main.  My remembrance of
Irish county towns at that time is that no literature flourished
except the Penny Dreadful and the local press.  I may be doing Jack
Yeats an injustice when hailing him at the beginning of a fascinating
career I yet suspect a long background of Penny Dreadfuls behind it.
How else could he have drawn his pirates?  They are the only pirates
in art who manifest the true pride, glory, beauty, and terror of
their calling as the romantic heart of childhood conceives of it.
The pirate has been lifted up to a strange kind of poetry in some
of Jack Yeats' pictures.  I remember one called "Walking the Plank."
The solemn theatrical face, lifted up to the blue sky in a last
farewell to the wild world and its lawless freedom, haunted me for
days.  There was also a pen-and-ink drawing I wish I could reproduce
here.  A young buccaneer, splendid in evil bravery, leaned across
a bar where a strange, beastly, little, old, withered, rat-like
figure was drawing the drink.  The little figure was like a devil
with the soul all concentrated into malice, and the whole picture
affected one with terror like a descent into some ferocious
human hell.

In all these figures, pirates or peasants, there is an ever present
suggestion of poetry;  it is in the skies, or in the distance, or
in the colors;  and these people who laugh in the fairs will have
after hours as solemn as the quiet star-gazer in the "Midsummer Eve."
This poetry is evident in the oddest ways, and escapes analysis, so
elusive and so original is it, as in the "Street of Shows."  Nothing
at first thought seems more hopelessly remote from poetry than the
country circus, with its lurid posters of the Giant Schoolgirl, the
Petrified Man, and the Mermaid, all in strong sunlight;  but the
heart carries with it its own mood, and this flaring scene has
undergone some indefinite transformation by the alchemy of genius,
and it assumes the character of a fairy tale or Arabian Nights
Entertainment imagined in the fantastic dreams of childhood.  The
sleepy doorkeeper is a goblin or gnome.  Perhaps the charm of it
all is that it is so evidently illusion, for when the heart is
strong in its own surety it can look out on the world, and smile
on things which would be unendurable if felt to be permanent, knowing
they are only dreams.

Many of these sketches have a largeness, almost a nobility, of
conception, which is, I think, a gift from father to son.  "After
the Harvest's Saved" is something elemental.  The "Post-car" suggests
the horses of the sun, or the stage coach in De Quincey's extraordinary
dream, when the opium had finally rioted in his brain, and transformed
his stage-coach into a chariot carrying news of some everlasting
victory.  Blake has said "exuberance is genius," and there is an
excess of energy or passion, or a dilation of the forms, or a peace
deeper than mere quietude in the figures of Mr. Yeats' pictures,
which gives them that symbolic character which genius always impresses
on its works.

The coloring grows better every year;  it is more varied and purer.
It is sometimes sombre, as in the tragic and dramatic "Simon the
Cyrenian," and sometimes rich and flowerlike, but always charged
with sentiment, and there is a curious fitness in it even when it
is evidently unreal.  These blues and purples and pale greens--what
crowd ever seemed clad in such twilight colors?  And yet we accept
it as natural, for this opalescence is always in the mist-laden air
of the West;  it enters into the soul today as it did into the
soul of the ancient Gael, who called it Ildathach--the many-colored
land;  it becomes part of the atmosphere of the mind;  and I think
Mr. Yeats means here to express, by one of the inventions of genius,
that this dim radiant coloring of his figures is the fitting symbol
of the fairyland which is in their hearts.  I have not felt so
envious of any artist's gift for a long time;  not envy of his
power of expression, but of his way of seeing things.  We are all
seeking today for some glimpse of the fairyland our fathers knew;
but all the fairylands, the Silver Cloud World, the Tirnanoge, the
Land of Heart's Desire, rose like dreams out of the human soul,
and in tracking them there Mr. Yeats has been more fortunate than
us all, for he has come to the truth, perhaps hardly conscious of
it himself.

1902


TWO IRISH ARTISTS


It is unjust to an artist to write on the spur of the moment of
his work--of the just seen picture which pleases or displeases.
For what instantly delights the eye may never win its way into the
heart, and what repels at first may steal later on into the
understanding, and find its interpretation in a deeper mood.  The
final test of a picture, or of any work of art, is its power of
enduring charm.  There are many circles in the Paradise of Beautiful
Memories, and half unconsciously, but with a justice, we at last
place each in its hierarchy, remote or near to the centre of our
being;  and I propose here rather to speak of the impression left
in my memory after seeing the work of Yeats and Hone for many years,
than to describe in detail the pictures--some new, some familiar--
which by a happy thought have been gathered together for exhibition.
To tell an artist that you remember his pictures with love after
many years is the highest praise you can give him;  and to
distinguish the impression produced from others is a pleasure I
am glad to be here allowed.

An artist like Mr. Yeats, whose main work has been in portraiture,
must often find himself before sitters with whom he has little
sympathy, and we all expect to find portraits which do not interest
us, because the interpreter has been at fault, and has failed in
his vision.  With the born craftsman, who always gives us beautiful
brushwork, we do not expect these inequalities, but with Mr. Yeats
technical power is not the most prominent characteristic.  He broods
or dreams over his sitters, and his meditation always tends to the
discovery of some spiritual or intellectual life in them, or some
hidden charm in the nature, or something to love;  and if he finds
what he seeks, we are sure, not always of a complete picture, but
of a poetic illumination, a revelation of character, a secret
sweetness for which we forgive the weakness or indecision manifest
here and there, and which are relics of the hours before the final
surety was attained.

I do not know what Mr. Yeats' philosophy of life is, but in his
work he has been over-mastered by the spirit of his race, and he
belongs to those who from the earliest dawn of Ireland have sought
for the Heart's Desire, and who have refined away the world, until
only fragments remained to them.  They have not accepted life as
it is, and Mr. Yeats could not paint like Reynolds or Romney the
beauty of every day in its best attire.  He is like the Irish poets
who have rarely left a complete description of women, but who speak
of some transitory motion or fragile charm--"a thin palm like foam
of the sea," "a white body," or in such vague phrases, until it
seems a spirit is praised and not flesh and blood.  I remember the
faces of women and children in his pictures where everything is
blurred or obscured, save faces which have a nameless charm.  They
look at you with long-remembered glances out of the brooding hour
of twilight, out of reverie and dream.  It is the hidden heart
which looks out, and we love these women and children for this,
for surely the heart's desire is its own secret.

His portraits of men have kindred qualities, and the magnificent
picture of John O'Leary shows him at his best.  It is itself a symbol
of the movement of which O'Leary was the last great representative.
The stately patriarchal head of the old chief is the head of the
idealist, so sure of his own truth that he must act, and, if needs
be, become the martyr for his ideal.  But the delicate hands are
not the hands of an empire-breaker.  This portrait will probably
find its last resting-place in the National Gallery, where, with a
curious irony, the Government places the portraits of the dead
rebels who gave its statesmen many an anxious day and many a nightmare;
and so it will go on, perhaps, until the contemplation of these
pictures inspires some boy with an equal or better head and a
stronger hand, and then--.

But to return to Mr. Yeats.  Some earlier pictures show him
attempting to paint directly the ideal world of romance and poetry;
yet interesting as these are, they do not convey the same impression
of mystery as the pictures of today.  Indeed, the light seen behind
or through a veil is always more suggestive than the unveiled light.
It may be that the spirit is a formless breath which pervades form,
and it is better revealed as a light in the eyes, as a brooding
expression, than by the choice of ancient days and other-world
subjects, where the shapes can be molded to ideal forms by the
artist's will.  However it is, it is certain that Millet, the
realist, is more spiritual than Moreau or Burne-Jones for all
their archaic design;  and Mr. Yeats, who, as his King Goll shows,
might have been a great romantic painter, has probably chosen wisely,
and has painted more memorable pictures than if he had gone back
to the fairyland of Celtic mythology.

To turn from Yeats to Hone is to turn from the lighted hearth to
the wilderness.  Humanity is very far away, or is huddled up under
immense skies, where it seems of less importance than the rocks.
The earth on which men have lived, where the work of their hand is
evident, with all the sentiment of the presence of man, with smoke
arising from numberless homes, is foreign to Mr. Hone.  The monsters
of the primeval world might sprawl on the rocks, for all the evidence
of lapse of time since their day, in many of his pictures.  He, too,
has refined away his world until only fragments of the earth remain
to him where he can dream in;  and these are waste places, where
the salt of the sea is in the wind, and the skies are gray and vapor-
laden, or the loneliness of dim twilights are over level sands.
Whatever else he paints is devoid of its proper interest, for he
seems to impose on the cattle in the fields and on the habitable
places a sentiment alien to their nature.  He has a mind with but
one impressive mood, and his spirit is never kindled, save in the
society where none intrude;  but in his own domain he is a master,
and is always sure of himself and his effect.  There is no tentative,
undecisive brushwork, such as we often see in the subtle search for
the unrevealed, which makes or mars Mr. Yeats' work.  He is at home
in his peculiar world, while the other is always seeking for it.

"A Sunset on Malahide Sands" shows a greater intensity than is
usual even in Mr. Hone's work.  There is something thrilling in
this twilight trembling over the deserted world.  Philosophies may
prove very well in the lecture-room, says Whitman, and not prove
at all under the sky and stars.  Pictures likewise may seem beautiful
in a gallery, yet look thin and unreal where, with a turn of the
head, one could look out at the pictures created hour after hour
by the Master of the Beautiful;  but there is some magic in this
vision made up of elemental light, darkness, and loneliness, and
we feel awed as if we knew the Spirit was hidden in His works.  But
primitive as this peculiar world is, and remote from humanity, it
is just here we find a human revelation;  for is not all art a symbol
of the creative mind, and if we were wise enough we would understand
that in art the light on every cloud, and the clear spaces above
the cloud, and the shadows of the earth beneath are made out of
the lights, infinitudes, and shadows of the soul, and are selected
from nature because of some correspondence, unconscious or half felt.
But these things belong more to the psychology of the artist mind
than to the appreciation of its work.  I have said enough, I hope, to
attract to the work of these artists, in a mood of true understanding,
those who would like to believe in the existence in Ireland of a
genuine art.  For ignored and uncared for as art is, we have some
names to be proud of, and of these Mr. Yeats and Mr. Hone are foremost.

1902


"ULSTER"


AN OPEN LETTER TO MR. RUDYARD KIPLING


I Speak to you, brother, because you have spoken to me, or rather
you have spoken for me.  I am a native of Ulster.  So far back as
I can trace the faith of my forefathers they held the faith for
whose free observance you are afraid.

I call you brother, for so far as I am known beyond the circle of
my personal friends it is as a poet.  We are not a numerous tribe,
but the world has held us in honor, because on the whole in poetry
is found the highest and sincerest utterance of man's spirit.  In
this manner of speaking if a man is not sincere his speech betrayeth
him, for all true poetry was written on the Mount of Transfiguration,
and there is revelation in it and the mingling of heaven and earth.
I am jealous of the honor of poetry, and I am jealous of the good
name of my country, and I am impelled by both emotions to speak to you.

You have blood of our race in you, and you may, perhaps, have some
knowledge of Irish sentiment.  You have offended against one of our
noblest literary traditions in the manner in which you have published
your thoughts.  You begin by quoting Scripture.  You preface your
verses on Ulster by words from the mysterious oracles of humanity
as if you had been inflamed and inspired by the prophet of God;
and you go on to sing of faith in peril and patriotism betrayed
and the danger of death and oppression by those who do murder by
night, which things, if one truly feels, he speaks of without
consideration of commerce or what it shall profit him to speak.  But
you, brother, have withheld your fears for your country and mine until
they could yield you a profit in two continents.   After all this high
speech about the Lord and the hour of national darkness it shocks me
to find this following your verses:  "Copyrighted in the United
States of America by Rudyard Kipling."  You are not in want.  You
are the most successful man of letters of your time, and yet you
are not above making profit out of the perils of your country.  You
ape the lordly speech of the prophets, and you conclude by warning
everybody not to reprint your words at their peril.  In Ireland
every poet we honor has dedicated his genius to his country without
gain, and has given without stint, without any niggardly withholding
of his gift when his nation was dark and evil days.  Not one of
our writers, when deeply moved about Ireland, has tried to sell
the gift of the spirit.  You, brother, hurt me when you declare
your principles, and declare a dividend to yourself out of your
patriotism openly and at the same time.

I would not reason with you, but that I know there is something
truly great and noble in you, and there have been hours when the
immortal in you secured your immortality in literature, when you
ceased to see life with that hard cinematograph eye of yours, and
saw with the eyes of the spirit, and power and tenderness and
insight were mixed in magical tales.  But you were far from the
innermost when you wrote of my countrymen us you did.

I have lived all my life in Ireland, holding a different faith from
that held by the majority.  I know Ireland as few Irishmen know it,
county by county, for I traveled all over Ireland for years, and,
Ulster man as I am, and proud of the Ulster people, I resent the
crowning of Ulster with all the virtues and the dismissal of other
Irishmen as thieves and robbers.  I resent the cruelty with which
you, a stranger, speak of the lovable and kindly people I know.

You are not even accurate in your history when you speak of Ulster's
traditions and the blood our forefathers spilt.  Over a century ago
Ulster was the strong and fast place of rebellion, and it was in
Ulster that the Volunteers stood beside their cannon and wrung the
gift of political freedom for the Irish Parliament.  You are
blundering in your blame.  You speak of Irish greed in I know not
what connection, unless you speak of the war waged over the land;
and yet you ought to know that both parties in England have by Act
after Act confessed the absolute justice and rightness of that
agitation, Unionist no less than Liberal, and both boast of their
share in answering the Irish appeal.  They are both proud today of
what they did.  They made inquiry into wrong and redressed it.  But
you, it seems, can only feel sore and angry that intolerable
conditions imposed by your laws were not borne in patience and
silence.  For what party do you speak?  What political ideal inspires
you?  When an Irishman has a grievance you smite him.  How differently
would you have written of Runnymede and the valiant men who rebelled
when oppressed.  You would have made heroes out of them.  Have you
no soul left, after admiring the rebels in your own history, to
sympathize with other rebels suffering deeper wrongs?  Can you not
see deeper into the motives for rebellion than the hireling reporter
who is sent to make up a case for the paper of a party?  The best
men in Ulster, the best Unionists in Ireland will not be grateful
to you for libeling their countrymen in your verse.  For, let the
truth be known, the mass of Irish Unionists are much more in love
with Ireland than with England.  They think Irish Nationalists are
mistaken, and they fight with them and use hard words, and all the
time they believe Irishmen of any party are better in the sight of
God than Englishmen.  They think Ireland is the best country in
the world to live in, and they hate to hear Irish people spoken of
as murderers and greedy scoundrels.  Murderers!  Why, there is more
murder done in any four English shires in a year than in the whole
of the four provinces of Ireland!  Greedy!  The nation never
ccepted a bribe, or took it as an equivalent or payment for an
ideal, and what bribe would not have been offered to Ireland if it
had been willing to forswear its traditions.

I am a person whose whole being goes into a blaze at the thought
of oppression of faith, and yet I think my Catholic countrymen more
tolerant than those who hold the faith I was born in.  I am a
heretic judged by their standards, a heretic who has written and
made public his heresies, and I have never suffered in friendship
or found my heresies an obstacle in life.  I set my knowledge, the
knowledge of a lifetime, against your ignorance, and I say you have
used your genius to do Ireland and its people a wrong.  You have
intervened in a quarrel of which you do not know the merits like
any brawling bully, who passes, and only takes sides to use his
strength.  If there was a high court of poetry, and those in power
jealous of the noble name of poet, and that none should use it
save those who were truly Knights of the Holy Ghost, they would
hack the golden spurs from your heels and turn you out of the Court.
You had the ear of the world and you poisoned it with prejudice and
ignorance.  You had the power of song, and you have always used it
on behalf of the strong against the weak.  You have smitten with
all your might at creatures who are frail on earth but mighty in
the heavens, at generosity, at truth, at justice, and heaven has
withheld vision and power and beauty from you, for this your verse
is but a shallow newspaper article made to rhyme.  Truly ought the
golden spurs to be hacked from your heels and you be thrust out
of the Court.

1912


IDEALS OF THE NEW RURAL SOCIETY


For a country where political agitations follow each other as
rapidly as plagues in an Eastern city, it is curious how little
constructive thought we can show on the ideals of a rural civilization.
But economic peace ought surely to have its victories to show as well
as political war.  I would a thousand times rather dwell on what men
and women working together may do than on what may result from
majorities at Westminster.  The beauty of great civilizations has
been built up far more by the people working together than by any
corporate action of the State.  In these socialistic days we grow
pessimistic about our own efforts and optimistic about the working
of the legislature.  I think we do right to expect great things
from the State, but we ought to expect still greater things from
ourselves.  We ought to know full well that, if the State did twice
as much as it does, we shall never rise out of mediocrity among
the nations unless we have unlimited faith in the power of our
personal efforts to raise and transform Ireland, and unless we
translate the faith into works.  The State can give a man an
economic holding, but only the man himself can make it into Earthly
Paradise, and it is a dull business, unworthy of a being made in
the image of God, to grind away at work without some noble end to
be served, some glowing ideal to be attained.

Ireland is a horribly melancholy and cynical country.  Our literary
men and poets, who ought to give us courage, have taken to writing
about the Irish as people who "went forth to battle, but always fell,"
sentimentalizing over incompetence instead of invigorating us and
liberating us and directing our energies.  We have developed a new
and clever school of Irish dramatists who say they are holding up
the mirror to Irish peasant nature, but they reflect nothing but
decadence.  They delight in the broken lights of insanity, the
ruffian who beats his wife, the weakling who is unfortunate in
love and who goes and drinks himself to death, while the little
decaying country towns are seized on with avidity and exhibited on
the stage in every kind of decay and human futility and meanness.
Well, it is good to be chastened in spirit, but it is a thousand
times better to be invigorated in spirit.  To be positive is always
better than to be negative.  These writers understand and sympathize
with Ireland more through their lower nature than their higher nature.
Judging by the things people write in Ireland, and by what they go
to see performed on the stage, it is more pleasing to them to see
enacted characters they know are meaner than themselves than to see
characters which they know are nobler than themselves.

All this is helping on our national pessimism and self-mistrust.  It
helps to fix these features permanently in our national character,
which were excusable enough as temporary moods after defeat.  The
younger generation should hear nothing about failures.  It should
not be hypnotized into self-contempt.  Our energies in Ireland are
sapped by a cynical self-mistrust which is spread everywhere through
society.  It is natural enough that the elder generation, who were
promised so many millenniums, but who actually saw four million
people deducted from the population, should be cynical.  But it
is not right they should give only to the younger generation the
heritage of their disappointments without any heritage of hope.
From early childhood parents and friends are hypnotizing the child
into beliefs and unbeliefs, and too often they are exiling all
nobility out of life, all confidence, all trust, all hope;  they
are insinuating a mean self-seeking, a self-mistrust, a vulgar
spirit which laughs at every high ideal, until at last the hypnotized
child is blinded to the presence of any beauty or nobility in life.
No country can ever hope to rise beyond a vulgar mediocrity where
there is not unbounded confidence in what its humanity can do.  The
self-confident American will make a great civilization yet, because
he believes with all his heart and soul in the future of his country
and in the powers of the American people.  What Whitman called
their "barbaric yawp" may yet turn into the lordliest speech and
thought, but without self-confidence a race will go no whither.  If
Irish people do not believe they can equal or surpass the stature
of any humanity which has been upon the globe, then they had better
all emigrate and become servants to some superior race, and leave
Ireland to new settlers who may come here with the same high hopes
as the Pilgrim Fathers had when they went to America.

We must go on imagining better than the best we know.  Even in
their ruins now, Greece and Italy seem noble and beautiful with
broken pillars and temples made in their day of glory.  But before
ever there was a white marble temple shining on a hill it shone
with a more brilliant beauty in the mind of some artist who designed
it.  Do many people know how that marvelous Greek civilization spread
along the shores of the Mediterranean?  Little nations owning hardly
more land than would make up an Irish barony sent out colony after
colony.  The seed of beautiful life they sowed grew and blossomed
out into great cities and half-divine civilizations.  Italy had a
later blossoming of beauty in the Middle Ages, and travelers today
go into little Italian towns and find them filled with masterpieces
of painting and architecture and sculpture, witnesses of a time
when nations no larger than an Irish county rolled their thoughts
up to Heaven and miked their imagination with the angels.  Can we
be contented in Ireland with the mean streets of our country towns
and the sordid heaps of our villages dominated in their economics
by the vendors of alcohol, and inspired as to their ideals by the
vendors of political animosities?

I would not mind people fighting in a passion to get rid of all
that barred some lordly scheme of life, but quarrels over political
bones from which there is little or nothing wholesome to be picked
only disgust.  People tell me that the countryside must always be
stupid and backward, and I get angry, as if it were said that only
townspeople had immortal souls, and it was only in the city that
the flame of divinity breathed into the first men had any unobscured
glow.  The countryside in Ireland could blossom into as much beauty
as the hillsides in mediaeval Italy if we could but get rid of our
self-mistrust.  We have all that any race ever had to inspire them,
the heavens overhead, the earth underneath, and the breath of life
in our nostrils.  I would like to exile the man who would set limits
to what we can do, who would take the crown and sceptre from the
human will and say, marking out some petty enterprise as the limit--
"Thus far can we go and no farther, and here shall our life be stayed."
Therefore I hate to hear of stagnant societies who think because they
have made butter well that they have crowned their parochial
generation with a halo of glory, and can rest content with the
fame of it all, listening to the whirr of the steam separators and
pouching in peace of mind the extra penny a gallon for their milk.
And I dislike the little groups who meet a couple of times a year
and call themselves co-operators because they have got their
fertilizers more cheaply, and have done nothing else.  Why, the
village gombeen man has done more than that!  He has at least
brought most of the necessaries of life there by his activities;
and I say if we co-operators do not aim at doing more than the
Irish Scribes and Pharisees we shall have little to be proud of.
A poet, interpreting the words of Christ to His followers, who had
scorned the followers of the old order, made Him say:

     Scorn ye their hopes, their tears, their inward prayers?
     I say unto you, see that your souls live
     A deeper life than theirs.

The co-operative movement is delivering over the shaping of the
rural life of Ireland, and the building up of its rural civilization,
into the hands of Irish farmers.  The old order of things has left
Ireland unlovely.  But if we do not passionately strive to build
it better, better for the men, for the women, for the children, of
what worth are we?   We continually come across the phrase "the
dull Saxon" in our Irish papers, it crops up in the speeches of
our public orators, but it was an English poet who said:

     I will not cease from mental fight,
     Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand
     Till we have built Jerusalem
     In England's green and pleasant land.

And it was the last great, poet England has produced, who had so
much hope for humanity in his country that in his latest song he
could mix earth with heaven, and say that to human eyes:

     Shall shine the traffic of Jacob's ladder
     Hung betwixt Heaven and Charing Cross.

Shall we think more meanly of the future of Ireland than these "dull
Saxons" think of the future of their island?  Shall we be content
with humble crumbs fallen from the table of life, and sit like
beggars waiting only for what the commonwealth can do for us,
leaving all high hopes and aims to our rulers, whether they be
English or Irish?  Every people get the kind of Government they
deserve.  A nation can exhibit no greater political wisdom in the
mass than it generates in its units.  It is the pregnant idealism
of the multitude which gives power to the makers of great nations,
otherwise the prophets of civilization are helpless as preachers
in the desert and solitary places.  So I have always preached
self-help above all other kinds of help, knowing that if we strove
passionately after this righteousness all other kinds of help would
be at our service.  So, too, I would brush aside the officious
interferer in co-operative affairs, who would offer on behalf of
the State to do for us what we should, and could, do far better
ourselves.  We can build up a rural civilization in Ireland,
shaping it to our hearts' desires, warming it with life, but our
rulers and officials can never be warmer than a stepfather, and
have no "large, divine, and comfortable words" for us;  they tinker
at the body when it is the soul which requires to be healed and
made whole.  The soul of Ireland has to be kindled, and it can be
kindled only by the thought of great deeds and not by the hope of
petty parsimonies or petty gains.

Now, great deeds are never done vicariously.  They are done directly
and personally.  No country has grown to greatness mainly by the
acts of some great ruler, but by the aggregate activities of all
its people.  Therefore, every Irish community should make its own
ideals and should work for them.  As great work can be done in a
parish as in the legislative assemblies with a nation at gaze.  Do
people say:  "It is easier to work well with a nation at gaze?"  I
answer that true greatness becomes the North Pole of humanity, and
when it appears all the needles of Being point to it.  You of the
young generation, who have not yet lost the generous ardour of youth,
believe it is as possible to do great work and make noble sacrifices,
and to roll the acceptable smoke of offering to Heaven by your work
in an Irish parish, as in any city in the world.  Like the Greek
architects--who saw in their dreams hills crowned with white marble
pillared palaces and images of beauty, until these rose up in
actuality--so should you, not forgetting national ideals, still
most of all set before yourselves the ideal of your own neighborhood.
How can you speak of working for all Ireland, which you have not
seen, if you do not labor and dream for the Ireland before your eyes,
which you see as you look out of your own door in the morning, and
on which you walk up and down through the day?

"What dream shall we dream or what labor shall we undertake?" you
may ask, and it is right that those who exhort should be asked in
what manner and how precisely they would have the listener act or
think.  I answer:  the first thing to do is to create and realize
the feeling for the community, and break up the evil and petty
isolation of man from man.  This can be done by every kind of
co-operative effort where combined action is better than individual
action.  The parish cannot take care of the child as well as the
parents, but you will find in most of the labors of life combined
action is more fruitful than individual action.  Some of you have
found this out in many branches of agriculture, of which your
dairying, agricultural, credit, poultry, and flax societies are
witness.  Some of you have combined to manufacture;  some to buy
in common, some to sell in common.  Some of you have the common
ownership of thousands of pounds' worth of expensive machinery.
Some of you have carried the idea of co-operation for economic ends
farther, and have used the power which combination gives you to
erect village halls and to have libraries of books, the windows
through which the life and wonder and power of humanity can be seen.
Some of you have light-heartedly, in the growing sympathy of unity,
revived the dances and songs and sports which are the right
relaxation of labor.  Some Irishwomen here and there have heard
beyond the four walls in which so much of their lives are spent
the music of a new day, and have started out to help and inspire
the men and be good comrades to them;  and calling themselves
United Irish-women, they have joined, as men have joined, to help
their sisters who are in economic servitude, or who suffer from
the ignorance and indifference to their special needs in life which
pervade the administration of local government.  We cannot build
up a rural civilization in Ireland without the aid of Irish women.
It will help life little if we have methods of the twentieth
century in the fields, and those of the fifth century in the home.
A great writer said:  "Woman is the last thing man will civilize."
If a woman had written on that subject she would have said:  "Woman
is the last thing a man thinks about when he is building up his
empires."  It is true that the consciousness of woman has been
always centered too close to the dark and obscure roots of the
Tree of Life, while men have branched out more to the sun an wind,
and today the starved soul of womanhood is crying out over the
world for an intellectual life and for more chance of earning a
living.  If Ireland will not listen to this cry, its daughters will
go on slipping silently away to other countries, as they have been
doing--all the best of them, all the bravest, all those most mentally
alive, all those who would have made the best wives and the best
mothers--and they will leave at home the timid, the stupid and the
dull to help in the deterioration of the race and to breed sons as
sluggish as themselves.  In the New World women have taken an
important part in the work of the National Grange, the greatest
agency in bettering the economic and social conditions of the
agricultural population in  the States.  In Ireland the women must
be welcomed into the work of building up a rural civilization, and
be aided by men in the promotion of those industries with which
women have been immemorially associated.  We should not want to
see women separated from the activities and ideals and inspirations
of men.  We should want to see them working together and in harmony.
If the women carry on their work in connection with the associations
by which men earn their living they will have a greater certainty
of permanence.  I have seen too many little industries and little
associations of women workers spring up and perish in Ireland,
which depended on the efforts of some one person who had not drunk
of the elixir of immortal youth, and could not always continue the
work she started;  and I have come to the conclusion that the
women's organizations must be connected with the men's organizations,
must use their premises, village halls, and rooms for women's meetings.
I do not believe women's work can be promoted so well in any other way.
Men and women have been companions in the world from the dawn of time.
I do not know where they are journeying to, but I believe they will
never get to the Delectable City if they journey apart from each
other, and do not share each other's burdens.

Working so, we create the conditions in which the spirit of the
community grows strong.  We create the true communal idea, which
the Socialists miss in their dream of a vast amalgamation of whole
nationalities in one great commercial undertaking.  The true idea
of the clan or commune or tribe is to have in it as many people as
will give it strength and importance, and so few people that a
personal tie may be established between them.  Humanity has always
grouped itself instinctively in this way.  It did so in the ancient
clans and rural communes, and it does so in the parishes and
co-operative associations.  If they were larger they would lose
the sense of unity.  If they were smaller they would be too feeble
for effectual work, and could not take over the affairs of their
district.  A rural commune or co-operative community ought to have,
to a large extent, the character of a nation.  It should manufacture
for its members all things which it profitably can manufacture for
them, employing its own workmen, carpenters, bootmakers, makers and
menders of farming equipment, saddlery, harness, etc.  It should
aim at feeding its members and their families cheaply and well, as
far as possible, out of the meat and grain produced in the district.
It should have a mill to grind their grain, a creamery to manufacture
their butter;  or where certain enterprises like a bacon factory
are too great for it, it should unite with other co-operative
communities to furnish out such an enterprise.  It should sell for
the members their produce, and buy for them their requirements,
and hold for them labor-saving machinery.  It should put aside a
certain portion of its profits every year for the creation of halls,
libraries, places for recreation and games, and it should pursue
this plan steadily with the purpose of giving its members every
social and educational advantage which the civilization of their
time affords.  It should have its councils or village parliaments,
where improvements and new ventures could be discussed.  Such a
community would soon generate a passionate devotion to its own
ideals and interests among the members, who would feel how their
fortunes rose with the fortunes of the associations of which they
were all members.  It would kindle and quicken the intellect of
every person in the community.  It would create the atmosphere in
which national genius would emerge and find opportunities for its
activity.  The clan ought to be the antechamber of the nation and
the training ground for its statesmen.  What opportunity leadership
in the councils of such a rural community would give to the best
minds!  The man of social genius at present finds an unorganized
community, and he does not know how to affect his fellow-citizens.
A man might easily despair of affecting the destinies of a nation
of forty million people, but yet start with eagerness to build up
a kingdom of the size of Sligo, and shape it nearer to the heart's
desire.  The organization of the rural population of Ireland in
co-operative associations will provide the instrument ready to the
hand of the social reformer.

Some associations will be more dowered with ability than others,
but one will learn from another, and a vast network of living,
progressive organizations will cover rural Ireland, democratic in
constitution and governed by the aristocracy of intellect and character.

Such associations would have great economic advantages in that they
would be self-reliant and self-contained, and would be less subject
to fluctuation in their prosperity brought about by national
disasters and commercial crises than the present unorganized rural
communities are.  They would have all their business under local
control;  and, aiming at feeding, clothing, and manufacturing
locally from local resources as far as possible, the slumps in
foreign trade, the shortage in supplies, the dislocations of commerce
would affect them but little.  They would make the community wealthier.
Every step towards this organization already taken in Ireland has
brought with it increased prosperity, and the towns benefit by
increased purchasing power on the part of these rural associations.
New arts and industries would spring up under the aegis of the local
associations.  Here we should find the weaving of rugs, there the
manufacture of toys, elsewhere the women would be engaged in
embroidery or lace-making, and, perhaps, everywhere we might get a
revival of the old local industry of weaving homespuns.  We are
dreaming of nothing impossible, nothing which has not been done
somewhere already, nothing which we could not do here in Ireland.
True, it cannot be done all at once, but if we get the idea clearly
in our minds of the building up of a rural civilization in Ireland,
we can labor at it with the grand persistence of medieval burghers
in their little towns, where one generation laid down the foundations
of a great cathedral, and saw only in hope and faith the gorgeous
glooms over altar and sanctuary, and the blaze and flame of stained
glass, where apostles, prophets, and angelic presences were pictured
in fire:  and the next generation raised high the walls, and only
the third generation saw the realization of what their grandsires
had dreamed.  We in Ireland should not live only from day to day,
for the day only, like the beasts in the field, but should think
of where all this long cavalcade of the Gael is tending, and how
and in what manner their tents will be pitched in the evening of
their generation.  A national purpose is the most unconquerable
and victorious of all things on earth.  It can raise up Babylons
from the sands of the desert, and make imperial civilizations spring
from out a score of huts, and after it has wrought its will it can
leave monuments that seem as everlasting a portion of nature as
the rocks.  The Pyramids and the Sphinx in the sands of Egypt have
seemed to humanity for centuries as much a portion of nature as
Erigal, or Benbulben, or Slieve Gullion have seemed a portion of
nature to our eyes in Ireland.

We must have some purpose or plan in building up an Irish
civilization.  No artist takes up his paints and brushes and begins
to work on his canvas without a clear idea burning in his brain of
what he has to do, else were his work all smudges.  Does anyone
think that out of all these little cabins and farmhouses dotting
the green of Ireland there will come harmonious effort to a common
end without organization and set purpose?  The idea and plan of a
great rural civilization must shine like a burning lamp in the
imagination of the youth of Ireland, or we shall only be at cross-
purposes and end in little fatuities.  We are very fond in Ireland
of talking of Ireland a nation.  The word "nation" has a kind of
satisfying sound, but I am afraid it is an empty word with no rich
significance to most who use it.  The word "laboratory" has as fine
a sound, but only the practical scientist has a true conception of
what may take place there, what roar of strange forces, what mingling
of subtle elements, what mystery and magnificence in atomic life.
The word without the idea is like the purse without the coin, the
skull without the soul, or any other sham or empty deceit.  Nations
are not built up by the repetition of words, but by the organizing
of intellectual forces.  If any of my readers would like to know
what kind of thought goes to the building up of a great nation,
let him read the life of Alexander Hamilton by Oliver.  To that
extraordinary man the United States owe their constitution, almost
their existence.  To him, far more than to Washington, the idea,
plan, shape of all that marvelous dominion owes its origin and
character.  He seemed to hold in his brain, while America was yet
a group of half-barbaric settlements, the idea of what it might
become.  He laid down the plans, the constitution, the foreign policy,
the trade policy, the relation of State to State, and it is only
within the last few years almost, that America has realized that she
had in Hamilton a supreme political and social intelligence, the
true fountain-head of what she has since become.

We have not half a continent to deal with, but size matters nothing.
The Russian Empire, which covers half Europe, and stretches over
the Ural Mountains to the Pacific, would weigh light as a feather
in the balance if we compare its services to humanity with those
of the little State of Attica, which was no larger than Tipperary.
Every State which has come to command the admiration of the world
has had clearly conceived ideals which it realized before it went
the way which all empires, even the greatest, must go;  becoming
finally a legend, a fable, or a symbol.  We have to lay down the
foundations of a new social order in Ireland, and, if the
possibilities of it are realized, our thousand years of sorrow
and darkness may be followed by as long a cycle of happy effort
and ever-growing prosperity.  We shall want all these plans whether
we are ruled from Westminster or College Green.  Without an
imaginative conception of what kind of civilization we wish to
create, the best government from either quarter will never avail
to lift us beyond national mediocrity.  I write for those who have
joined the ranks of the co-operators without perhaps realizing all
that the movement meant, or all that it tended to.  Because we hold
in our hearts and keep holy there the vision of a great future, I
have fought passionately for the entire freedom of our movement
from external control, lest the meddling of politicians or official
persons without any inspiration should deflect, for some petty
purpose or official gratification, the strength of that current
which was flowing and gathering strength unto the realization of
great ideals.  Every country has its proportion of little souls
which could find ample room on a threepenny bit, and be majestically
housed in a thimble, who follow out some little minute practice in
an ecstasy of self-satisfaction, seeking some little job which is
the El Dorado of their desires as if there were naught else, as if
humanity were not going from the Great Deep to the Great Deep of
Deity, with wind and water, fire and earth, stars and sun, lordly
companions for it on its path to a divine destiny.  We have our
share of these in Ireland in high and low places, but I do not
write for them.  This essay is for those who are working at laying
deep the foundations of a new social order, to hearten them with
some thought of what their labor may bring to Ireland.  I welcome
to this work the United Irishwomen.  As one of their poetesses
has said in a beautiful song, the services of women to Ireland in
the past have been the services of mourners to the stricken.  But
for today and tomorrow we need hope and courage and gaiety, and I
repeat for them the last passionate words of her verse:

     Rise to your feet, O daughters, rise,
     Our mother still is young and fair.
     Let the world look into your eyes
     And see her beauty shining there.
     Grant of that beauty but one ray,
     Heroes shall leap from every hill;
     Today shall be as yesterday,
     The red blood burns in Ireland still.


THOUGHTS FOR A CONVENTION


1. There are moments in history when by the urgency of circumstance
everyone in a country is drawn from normal pursuits to consider
the affairs of the nation.  The merchant is turned from his warehouse,
the bookman from his books, the farmer from his fields, because
they realize that the very foundations of the society, under whose
shelter they were able to carry on their avocation, are being shaken,
and they can no longer be voiceless, or leave it to deputies,
unadvised by them, to arrange national destinies.  We are all
accustomed to endure the annoyances and irritations caused by
legislation which is not agreeable to us, and solace ourselves by
remembering that the things which really matter are not affected.
But when the destiny of a nation, the principles by which life is
to be guided are at stake, all are on a level, are equally affected
and are bound to give expression to their opinions.  Ireland is in
one of these moments of history.  Circumstances with which we are
all familiar and the fever in which the world exists have infected
it, and it is like molten metal the skilled political artificer
might pour into a desirable mould.  But if it is not handled rightly,
if any factor is ignored, there may be an explosion which would bring
on us a fate as tragic as anything in our past history.  Irishmen
can no longer afford to remain aloof from each other, or to address
each other distantly and defiantly from press or platform, but must
strive to understand each other truly, and to give due weight to
each other's opinions, and, if possible, arrive at a compromise, a
balancing of their diversities, which may save our country from
anarchy and chaos for generations to come.

2. An agreement about Irish Government must be an agreement, not
between two but three Irish parties first of all, and afterwards
with Great Britain.  The Premier of a Coalition Cabinet has declared
that there is no measure of self government which Great Britain
would not assent to being set up in Ireland, if Irishmen themselves
could but come to an agreement.  Before such a compromise between
Irish parties is possible there must be a clear understanding of
the ideals of these parties, as they are understood by themselves,
and not as they are presented in party controversy by special
pleaders whose object too often is to pervert or discredit the
principles and actions of opponents, a thing which is easy to do
because all parties, even the noblest, have followers who do them
disservice by ignorant advocacy or excited action.  If we are to
unite Ireland we can only do so by recognizing what truly are the
principles each party stands for, and will not forsake, and for which,
if necessary they will risk life.  True understanding is to see ideas
as they are held by men between themselves and Heaven;  and in this
mood I will try, first of all, to understand the position of Unionists,
Sinn Feiners and Constitutional Nationalists as they have been
explained to me by the best minds among them, those who have induced
others of their countrymen to accept those ideals.  When this is done
we will see if compromise, a balancing of diversities be not possible
in an Irish State where all that is essential in these varied ideals
may be harmonized and retained.

3. I will take first of all the position of Unionists.  They are,
many of them, the descendants of settlers who by their entrance
into Ireland broke up the Gaelic uniformity and introduced the speech,
the thoughts, characteristic of another race.  While they have grown
to love their country as much as any of Gaelic origin, and their
peculiarities have been modified by centuries of life in Ireland
and by intermarriage, so that they are much more akin to their
fellow-countrymen in mind and manner than they are to any other
people, they still retain habits, beliefs and traditions from which
they will not part.  They form a class economically powerful.  They
have openness and energy of character, great organizing power and
a mastery over materials, all qualities invaluable in an Irish State.
In North-East Ulster, where they are most homogeneous they conduct
the affairs of their cities with great efficiency, carrying on an
international trade not only with Great Britain but with the rest
of the world.   They have made these industries famous.  They
believe that their prosperity is in large measure due to their
acceptance of the Union, that it would be lessened if they threw
in their lot with the other Ireland and accepted its ideals, that
business which now goes to their shipyards and factories would
cease if they were absorbed in a self-governing Ireland whose
spokesmen had an unfortunate habit of nagging their neighbors and
of conveying the impression that they are inspired by race hatred.
They believe that an Irish legislature would be controlled by a
majority, representatives mainly of small farmers, men who had no
knowledge of affairs, or of the peculiar needs of Ulster industry,
or the intricacy of the problems involved in carrying on an
international trade;  that the religious ideas of the majority
would be so favored in education and government that the favoritism
would amount to religious oppression.  They are also convinced
that no small country in the present state of the world can really
be independent, that such only exist by sufferance of their mighty
neighbors, and must be subservient in trade policy and military
policy to retain even a nominal freedom;  and that an independent
Ireland would by its position be a focus for the intrigues of
powers hostile to Great Britain, and if it achieved independence
Great Britain in self protection would be forced to conquer it
again.  They consider that security for industry and freedom for
the individual can best be preserved in Ireland by the maintenance
of the Union, and that the world spirit is with the great empires.

4. The second political group may be described as the spiritual
inheritors of the more ancient race in Ireland.  They regard the
preservation of their nationality as a sacred charge, themselves
as a conquered people owing no allegiance to the dominant race.
They cannot be called traitors to it because neither they nor their
predecessors have ever admitted the right of another people to
govern them against their will.  They are inspired by an ancient
history, a literature stretching beyond the Christian era, a national
culture and distinct national ideals which they desire to manifest
in a civilization which shall not be an echo or imitation of any
other.  While they do not depreciate the worth of English culture
or its political system they are as angry at its being imposed on
them as a young man with a passion for art would be if his guardian
insisted on his adopting another profession and denied him any
chance of manifesting his own genius.  Few hatreds equal those
caused by the denial or obstruction of national aptitudes.  Many
of those who fought in the last Irish insurrection were fighters
not merely for a political change but were rather desperate and
despairing champions of a culture which they held was being stifled
from infancy in Irish children in the schools of the nation.  They
believe that the national genius cannot manifest itself in a
civilization and is not allowed to manifest itself while the Union
persists.  They wish Ireland to be as much itself as Japan, and as
free to make its own choice of political principles, its culture
and social order, and to develop its industries unfettered by the
trade policy of their neighbors.  Their mood is unconquerable, and
while often overcome it has emerged again and again in Irish history,
and it has perhaps more adherents today than at any period since
the Act of Union, and this has been helped on by the incarnation
of the Gaelic spirit in the modem Anglo-Irish literature, and a
host of brilliant poets, dramatists and prose writers who have won
international recognition, and have increased the dignity of spirit
and the self-respect of the followers of this tradition.  They
assert that the Union kills the soul of the people;  that empires
do not permit the intensive cultivation of human life:  that they
destroy the richness and variety of existence by the extinction
of peculiar and unique gifts, and the substitution therefor of a
culture which has its value mainly for the people who created it,
but is as alien to our race as the mood of the scientist is to
the artist or poet.

5. The third group occupies a middle position between those who
desire the perfecting of the Union and those whose claim is for
complete independence:  and because they occupy a middle position,
and have taken coloring from the extremes between which they exist
they have been exposed to the charge of insincerity, which is unjust
so far as the best minds among them are concerned.  They have aimed
at a middle course, not going far enough on one side or another to
secure the confidence of the extremists.  They have sought to
maintain the connection with the empire, and at the same time to
acquire an Irish control over administration and legislation.  They
have been more practical than ideal, and to their credit must be
placed the organizing of the movements which secured most of the
reforms in Ireland since the Union, such as religious equality,
the acts securing to farmers fair rents and fixity of tenure, the
wise and salutary measures making possible the transfer of land
from landlord to tenant, facilities for education at popular
universities, the laborers' acts and many others.  They are a
practical party taking what they could get, and because they could
show ostensible results they have had a greater following in
Ireland than any other party.  This is natural because the average
man in all countries is a realist.  But this reliance on material
results to secure support meant that they must always show results,
or the minds of their countrymen veered to those ultimates and
fundamentals which await settlement here as they do in all
civilizations.  As in the race with Atalanta the golden apples
had to be thrown in order to win the race.  The intellect of
Ireland is now fixed on fundamentals, and the compromise this middle
party is able to offer does not make provision for the ideals of
either of the extremists, and indeed meets little favor anywhere
in a country excited by recent events in world history, where
revolutionary changes are expected and a settlement far more in
accord with fundamental principles.

6. It is possible that many of the rank and file of these parties
will not at first agree with the portraits painted of their opponents,
and that is because the special pleaders of the press, who in Ireland
are, as a rule, allowed little freedom to state private convictions,
have come to regard themselves as barristers paid to conduct a case,
and have acquired the habit of isolating particular events, the
hasty speech or violent action of individuals in localities, and
of exhibiting these as indicating the whole character of the party
attacked.   They misrepresent Irishmen to each other.  The Ulster
advocates of the Union, for example, are accustomed to hear from
their advisers that the favorite employment of Irish farmers in
the three southern provinces is cattle driving, if not worse.  They
are told that Protestants in these provinces live in fear of their
lives, whereas anybody who has knowledge of the true conditions
knows that, so far from being riotous and unbusinesslike, the
farmers in these provinces have developed a net-work of rural
associations, dairies, bacon factories, agricultural and poultry
societies, etc., doing their business efficiently, applying the
teachings of science in their factories, competing in quality of
output with the very best of the same class of society in Ulster
and obtaining as good prices in the same market.  As a matter of
fact this method of organization now largely adopted by Ulster
farmers was initiated in the South.  With regard to the charge of
intolerance I do not believe it.  Here, as in all other countries,
there are unfortunate souls obsessed by dark powers, whose human
malignity takes the form of religious hatreds, but I believe, and
the thousands of Irish Protestants in the Southern Counties will
affirm it as true that they have nothing to complain of in this
respect.  I am sure that in this matter of religious tolerance
these provinces can stand favorable comparison with any country
in the world where there are varieties of religions, even with
Great Britain.  I would plead with my Ulster compatriots not to
gaze too long or too credulously into that distorting mirror held up
to them, nor be tempted to take individual action as representative
of the mass.  How would they like to have the depth or quality of
spiritual life in their great city represented by the scrawlings
and revilings about the head of the Catholic Church to be found
occasionally on the blank walls of Belfast.  If the same method of
distortion by selection of facts was carried out there is not a
single city or nation which could not be made to appear baser than
Sodom or Gomorrah and as deserving of their fate.

7.  The Ulster character is better appreciated by Southern Ireland,
and there is little reason to vindicate it against any charges
except the slander that Ulster Unionists do not regard themselves
as Irishmen, and that they have no love for their own country.
Their position is that they are Unionists, not merely because it
is for the good of Great Britain, but because they hold it to be
for the good of Ireland, and it is the Irish argument weighs with
them, and if they were convinced it would be better for Ireland to
be self-governed they would throw in their lot with the rest of
Ireland, which would accept them gladly and greet them as a prodigal
son who had returned, having made, unlike most prodigal sons, a
fortune, and well able to be the wisest adviser in family affairs.
It is necessary to preface what I have to say by way of argument
or remonstrance to Irish parties by words making it clear that I
write without prejudice against any party, and that I do not in
the least underestimate their good qualities or the weight to be
attached to their opinions and ideals.  It is the traditional Irish
way, which we have too often forgotten, to notice the good in the
opponent before battling with what is evil.  So Maeve, the ancient
Queen of Connacht, looking over the walls of her city of Cruachan
at the Ulster foemen, said of them, "Noble and regal is their
appearance," and her own followers said, "Noble and regal are
those of whom you speak."  When we lost the old Irish culture we
lost the tradition of courtesy to each other which lessens the
difficulties of life and makes it possible to conduct controversy
without creating bitter memories.

8. I desire first to argue with Irish Unionists whether it is accurate
to say of them, as it would appear to be from their spokesmen, that
the principle of nationality cannot be recognized by them or allowed
to take root in the commonwealth of dominions which form the Empire.
Must one culture only exist?  Must all citizens have their minds
poured into the same mould, and varieties of gifts and cultural
traditions be extinguished?  What would India with its myriad races
say to that theory?  What would Canada enclosing in its dominion
and cherishing a French Canadian nation say?  Unionists have by
every means in their power discouraged the study of the national
literature of Ireland though it is one of the most ancient in Europe,
though the scholars of France and Germany have founded journals for
its study, and its beauty is being recognized by all who have read it.
It contains the race memory of Ireland, its imaginations and thoughts
for two thousand years.  Must that be obliterated?  Must national
character be sterilized of all taint of its peculiar beauty?  Must
Ireland have no character of its own but be servilely imitative of
its neighbor in all things and be nothing of itself?  It is objected
that the study of Irish history, Irish literature and the national
culture generates hostility to the Empire.  Is that a true
psychological analysis?  Is it not true in all human happenings
that if people are denied what is right and natural they will
instantly assume an attitude of hostility to the power which denies?
The hostility is not inherent in the subject but is evoked by the
denial.  I put it to my Unionist compatriots that the ideal is to
aim at a diversity of culture, and the greatest freedom, richness
and variety of thought.  The more this richness and variety prevail
in a nation the less likelihood is there of the tyranny of one
culture over the rest.  We should aim in Ireland at that freedom
of the ancient Athenians, who, as Pericles said, listened gladly
to the opinions of others and did not turn sour faces on those who
disagreed with them.  A culture which is allowed essential freedom
to develop will soon perish if it does not in itself contain the
elements of human worth which make for immortality.  The world has
to its sorrow many instances of freak religions which were persecuted
and by natural opposition were perpetuated and hardened in belief.  We
should allow the greatest freedom in respect of cultural developments
in Ireland so that the best may triumph by reason of superior beauty
and not because the police are relied upon to maintain one culture
in a dominant position.

9. I have also an argument to address to the extremists whose claim,
uttered lately with more openness and vehemence, is for the complete
independence of the whole of Ireland, who cry out against partition,
who will not have a square mile of Irish soil subject to foreign
rule.  That implies they desire the inclusion of Ulster and the
inhabitants of Ulster in their Irish State.  I tell them frankly
that if they expect Ulster to throw its lot in with a self-governing
Ireland they must remain within the commonwealth of dominions which
constitute the Empire, be prepared loyally, once Ireland has
complete control over its internal affairs, to accept the status
of a dominion and the responsibilities of that wider union.  If
they will not accept that status as the Boers did, they will never
draw that important and powerful Irish party into an Irish State
except by force, and do they think there is any possibility of that?
It is extremely doubtful whether if the world stood aloof, and
allowed Irishmen to fight out their own quarrels among themselves,
that the fighters for complete independence could conquer a community
so numerous, so determined, so wealthy, so much more capable of
providing for themselves the plentiful munitions by which alone one
army can hope to conquer another.  In South Africa men who had
fiercer traditional hostilities than Irishmen of different parties
here have had, who belonged to different races, who had a few years
before been engaged in a racial war, were great enough to rise above
these past antagonisms, to make an agreement and abide faithfully
by it.  Is the same magnanimity not possible in Ireland?  I say to
my countrymen who cry out for the complete separation of Ireland
from the Empire, that they will not in this generation bring with
them the most powerful and wealthy, if not the most numerous, party
in their country.  Complete control of Irish affairs is a possibility,
and I suggest to the extremists that the status of a self-governing
dominion inside a federation of dominions is a proposal which, if
other safeguards for minority interests are incorporated, would
attract Unionist attention.  But if these men who depend so much
in their economic enterprises upon a friendly relation with their
largest customers are to be allured into self-governing Ireland
there must be acceptance of the Empire as an essential condition.
The Boers found it not impossible to accept this status for the
sake of a United South Africa.  Are our Irish Boers not prepared
to make a compromise and abide by it loyally for the sake of a
United Ireland?

10. A remonstrance must also be addressed to the middle party in
that it has made no real effort to understand and conciliate the
feelings of Irish Unionists.  They have indeed made promises, no
doubt sincerely, but they have undone the effect of all they said
by encouraging of recent years the growth of sectarian organizations
with political aims and have relied on these as on a party machine.
It may be said that in Ulster a similar organization, sectarian
with political objects, has long existed, and that this justified
a counter organization.  Both in my opinion are unjustifiable and
evil, but the backing of such an organization was specially foolish
in the case of the majority, whose main object ought to be to allure
the minority into the same political fold.  The baser elements in
society, the intriguers, the job seekers, and all who would acquire
by influence what they cannot attain by merit, flock into such
bodies, and create a sinister impression as to their objects and
deliberations.  If we are to have national concord among Irishmen
religion must be left to the Churches whose duty it is to promote
it, and be dissevered from party politics, and it should be regarded
as contrary to national idealism to organize men of one religion
into secret societies with political or economic aims.  So shall
be left to Caesar the realm which is Caesar's, and it shall not
appear part of the politics of eternity that Michael's sister's
son obtains a particular post beginning at thirty shillings a week.
I am not certain that it should not be an essential condition of
any Irish settlement that all such sectarian organizations should
be disbanded in so far as their objects are political, and remain
solely as friendly societies.  It is useless assuring a minority
already suspicious, of the tolerance it may expect from the majority,
if the party machine of the majority is sectarian and semi-secret,
if no one of the religion of the minority can join it.  I believe
in spite of the recent growth of sectarian societies that it has
affected but little the general tolerant spirit in Ireland, and
where the evils have appeared they have speedily resulted in the
break up of the organization in the locality.  Irishmen individually
as a rule are much nobler in spirit than the political organizations
they belong to.

11. It is necessary to speak with the utmost frankness and not to
slur over any real difficulty in the way of a settlement.  Irish
parties must rise above themselves if they are to bring about an
Irish unity.  They appear on the surface irreconcilable, but that,
in my opinion, is because the spokesmen of parties are under the
illusion that they should never indicate in public that they might
possibly abate one jot of the claims of their party.  A crowd or
organization is often more extreme than its individual members.  I
have spoken to Unionists and Sinn Feiners and find them as reasonable
in private as they are unreasonable in public.  I am convinced that
an immense relief would be felt by all Irishmen if a real settlement
of the Irish question could be arrived at, a compromise which would
reconcile them to living under one government, and would at the
same time enable us to live at peace with our neighbors.  The
suggestions which follow were the result of discussions between a
group of Unionists, Nationalists and Sinn Feiners, and as they
found it possible to agree upon a compromise it is hoped that the
policy which harmonized their diversities may help to bring about
a similar result in Ireland.

12. I may now turn to consider the Anglo-Irish problem and to make
specific suggestions for its solution and the character of the
government to be established in Ireland.  The factors are triple.
There is first the desire many centuries old of Irish nationalists
for self-government and the political unity of the people:  secondly,
there is the problem of the Unionists who require that the self-
governing Ireland they enter shall be friendly to the imperial
connection, and that their religious and economic interests shall
be safeguarded by real and not merely by verbal guarantees;  and,
thirdly, there is the position of Great Britain which requires,
reasonably enough, that any self-governing dominion set up alongside
it shall be friendly to the Empire.  In this matter Great Britain
has priority of claim to consideration, for it has first proposed
a solution, the Home Rule Act which is on the Statute Book, though
later variants of that have been outlined because of the attitude
of Unionists in North-East Ulster, variants which suggest the
partition of Ireland, the elimination of six counties from the
area controlled by the Irish government.  This Act, or the variants
of it offered to Ireland, is the British contribution to the
settlement of the Anglo-Irish problem.

13.  If it is believed that this scheme, or any diminutive of it,
will settle the Anglo-Irish problem, British statesmen and people who
trust them are only preparing for themselves bitter disappointment.
I believe that nothing less than complete self-government has ever
been the object of Irish Nationalism.  However ready certain sections
have been to accept installments, no Irish political leader had
authority to pledge his countrymen to ever accept a half measure
as a final settlement of the Irish claim.  The Home Rule Act, if
put into operation tomorrow, even if Ulster were cajoled or coerced
into accepting it, would not be regarded by Irish Nationalists as
a final settlement, no matter what may be said at Westminster.
Nowhere in Ireland has it been accepted as final.  Received without
enthusiasm at first, every year which has passed since the Bill
was introduced has seen the system of self-government formulated
there subjected to more acute and hostile criticism:  and I believe
it would be perfectly accurate to say that its passing tomorrow
would only be the preliminary for another agitation, made fiercer
by the unrest of the world, where revolutions and the upsetting of
dynasties are in the air, and where the claims of nationalities no
more ancient than the Irish, like the Poles, the Finns, and the Arabs,
to political freedom are admitted by the spokesmen of the great
powers, Great Britain included, or are already conceded.  If any
partition of Ireland is contemplated this will intensify the
bitterness now existing.  I believe it is to the interest of Great
Britain to settle the Anglo-Irish dispute.  It has been countered
in many of its policies in America and the Colonies by the vengeful
feelings of Irish exiles.  There may yet come a time when the refusal
of the Irish mouse to gnaw at a net spread about the lion may bring
about the downfall of the Empire.  It cannot be to the interest of
Great Britain to have on its flank some millions of people who,
whenever Great Britain is engaged in a war which threatens its
existence, feel a thrill running through them, as prisoners do
hearing the guns sounding closer of an army which comes, as they
think, to liberate them.  Nations denied essential freedom ever
feel like that when the power which dominates them is itself in peril.
Who can doubt but for the creation of Dominion Government in South
Africa that the present war would have found the Boers thirsty for
revenge, and the Home Government incapable of dealing with a distant
people who taxed its resources but a few years previously.  I have
no doubt that if Ireland was granted the essential freedom and
wholeness in its political life it desires, its mood also would be
turned.  I have no feelings of race hatred, no exultation in thought
of the downfall of any race;  but as a close observer of the mood
of millions in Ireland, I feel certain that if their claim is not
met they will brood and scheme and Wait to strike a blow, though
the dream may be handed on from them to their children and their
children's children, yet they will hope, sometime, to give the
last vengeful thrust of enmity at the stricken heart of the Empire.

14. Any measure which is not a settlement which leaves Ireland
still actively discontented is a waste of effort, and the sooner
English statesmen realize the futility of half measures the better.
A man who claims a debt he believes is due to him, who is offered
half of it in payment, is not going to be conciliated or to be one
iota more friendly, if he knows that the other is able to pay the
full amount and it could be yielded without detriment to the donor.
Ireland will never be content with a system of self-government
which lessens its representation in the Imperial Parliament, and
still retains for that Parliament control over all-important matters
like taxation and trade policy.  Whoever controls these controls
the character of an Irish civilization, and the demand of Ireland
is not merely for administrative powers, but the power to fashion
its own national policy, and to build up a civilization of its own
with an economic character in keeping by self-devised and self-
checked efforts.  To misunderstand this is to suppose there is no
such thing as national idealism, and that a people will accept
substitutes for the principle of nationality, whereas the past
history of the world and present circumstance in Europe are evidence
that nothing is more unconquerable and immortal than national feeling,
and that it emerges from centuries of alien government, and is ready
at any time to flare out in insurrection.  At no period in Irish
history was that sentiment more self-conscious than it is today.

15. Nationalist Ireland requires that the Home Rule Act should be
radically changed to give Ireland unfettered control over taxation,
customs, excise and trade policy.  These powers are at present denied,
and if the Act were in operation, Irish people instead of trying to
make the best of it, would begin at once to use whatever powers
they had as a lever to gain the desired control, and this would
lead to fresh antagonism and a prolonged struggle between the two
countries, and in this last effort Irish Nationalists would have
the support of that wealthy class now Unionist in the three southern
provinces, and also in Ulster if it were included, for they would
then desire as much as Nationalists that, while they live in a self-
governing Ireland, the powers of the Irish government should be
such as would enable it to build up Irish industries by an Irish
trade policy, and to impose taxation in a way to suit Irish conditions.
As the object of British consent to Irish self-government is to
dispose of Irish antagonism nothing is to be gained by passing
measures which will not dispose of it.  The practically unanimous
claim of Nationalists as exhibited in the press in Ireland is for
the status and power of economic control possessed by the self-
governing dominions.  By this alone will the causes of friction
between the two nations be removed, and a real solidarity of
interest based on a federal union for joint defense of the freedom
and well-being of the federated communities be possible and I have
no doubt it would take place.  I do not believe that hatreds remain
for long among people when the causes which created them are removed.
We have seen in Europe and in the dominions the continual reversals
of feeling which have taken place when a sore has been removed.
Antagonisms are replaced by alliances.  It is mercifully true of
human nature that it prefers to exercise goodwill to hatred when
it can, and the common sense of the best in Ireland would operate
once there was no longer interference in our internal affairs, to
allay and keep in order these turbulent elements which exist in
every country, but which only become a danger to society when real
grievances based on the violation of true principles of government
are present.

16. The Union has failed absolutely to conciliate Ireland.  Every
generation there have been rebellions and shootings and agitations
of a vehement and exhausting character carried continually to the
point of lawlessness before Irish grievances could be redressed.
A form of government which requires a succession of rebellions to
secure reforms afterwards admitted to be reasonable cannot be a
good form of government.  These agitations have inflicted grave
material and moral injury on Ireland.  The instability of the
political system has prejudiced natural economic development.
Capital will not be invested in industries where no one is certain
about the future.  And because the will of the people was so
passionately set on political freedom an atmosphere of suspicion
gathered around public movements which in other countries would
have been allowed to carry on their beneficent work unhindered by
any party.  Here they were continually being forced to declare
themselves either for or against self-government.  The long attack
on the movement for the organization of Irish agriculture was an
instance.  Men are elected on public bodies not because they are
efficient administrators, but because they can be trusted to pass
resolutions favoring one party or another.  This has led to
corruption. Every conceivable rascality in Ireland has hid itself
behind the great names of nation or empire.  The least and the most
harmless actions of men engaged in philanthropic or educational
work or social reform are scrutinized and criticized so as to
obstruct good work.  If a phrase even suggests the possibility of
a political partiality, or a tendency to anything which might be
construed by the most suspicious scrutineer to indicate a remote
desire to use the work done as an argument either for or against
self-government the man or movement is never allowed to forget it.
Public service becomes intolerable and often impossible under such
conditions, and while the struggle continues this also will continue
to the moral detriment of the people.  There are only two forms of
government possible.  A people may either be governed by force or
may govern themselves.  The dual government of Ireland by two
Parliaments, one sitting in Dublin and one in London, contemplated
in the Home Rule Act, would be impossible and irritating.  Whatever
may be said for two bodies each with their spheres of influence
clearly defined, there is nothing to be said for two legislatures
with concurrent powers of legislation and taxation, and with members
from Ireland retained at Westminster to provide some kind of
democratic excuse for the exercise of powers of Irish legislation
and taxation by the Parliament at Westminster.  The Irish demand
is that Great Britain shall throw upon our shoulders the full
weight of responsibility for the management of our own affairs, so
that we can only blame ourselves and our political guides and not
Great Britain if we err in our policies.

17. I have stated what I believe to be sound reasons for the
recognition of the justice of the Irish demand by Great Britain
and I now turn to Ulster, and ask it whether the unstable condition
of things in Ireland does not affect it even more than Great Britain.
If it persists in its present attitude, if it remains out of a self-
governing Ireland, it will not thereby exempt itself from political,
social and economic trouble.  Ireland will regard the six Ulster
counties as the French have regarded Alsace-Lorraine, whose hopes
of reconquest turned Europe into an armed camp, with the endless
suspicions, secret treaties, military and naval developments, the
expense of maintaining huge armies, and finally the inevitable war.
So sure as Ulster remains out, so surely will it become a focus
for nationalist designs.  I say nothing of the injury to the great
wholesale business carried on from its capital city throughout the
rest of Ireland where the inevitable and logical answer of merchants
in the rest of Ireland to requests for orders will be:  "You would
die rather than live in the same political house with us.  We will
die rather than trade with you."  There will be lamentably and
inevitably a fiercer tone between North and South.  Everything
that happens in one quarter will be distorted in the other.  Each
will lie about the other.  The materials will exist more than before
for civil commotion, and this will be aided by the powerful minority
of Nationalists in the excluded counties working in conjunction
with their allies across the border.  Nothing was ever gained in
life by hatred;  nothing good ever came of it or could come of it;
and the first and most important of all the commandments of the
spirit that there should be brotherhood between men will be
deliberately broken to the ruin of the spiritual life of Ireland.

18. So far from Irish Nationalists wishing to oppress Ulster, I
believe that there is hardly any demand which could be made, even
involving democratic injustice to themselves, which would not
willingly be granted if their Ulster compatriots would fling their
lot in with the rest of Ireland and heal the eternal sore.  I ask
Ulster what is there that they could not do as efficiently in an
Ireland with the status and economic power of a self-governing
dominion as they do at present.  Could they not build their ships
and sell them, manufacture and export their linens?  What do they
mean when they say Ulster industries would be taxed?   I cannot
imagine any Irish taxation which their wildest dreams imagined so
heavy as the taxation which they will endure as part of the United
Kingdom in future.  They will be implicated in all the revolutionary
legislation made inevitable in Great Britain by the recoil on
society of the munition workers and disbanded conscripts.  Ireland,
which luckily for itself, has the majority of its population
economically independent as workers on the land, and which, in the
development of agriculture now made necessary as a result of changes
in naval warfare, will be able to absorb without much trouble its
returning workers.  Ireland will be much quieter, less revolutionary
and less expensive to govern.  I ask what reason is there to suppose
that taxation in a self-governing Ireland would be greater than in
Great Britain after the war, or in what way Ulster industries could
be singled out, or for what evil purpose by an Irish Parliament?  It
would be only too anxious rather to develop still further the one
great industrial centre in Ireland;  and would, it is my firm
conviction, allow the representatives of Ulster practically to
dictate the industrial policy of Ireland.  Has there ever at any
time been the slightest opposition by any Irish Nationalist to
proposals made by Ulster industrialists which would lend color to
such a suspicion?  Personally, I think that Ulster without safeguards
of any kind might trust its fellow-countrymen;  the weight, the
intelligence, the vigor of character of Ulster people in any case
would enable them to dominate Ireland  economically.  But I do not
for a moment say that Ulster is not justified in demanding safeguards.
Its leader, speaking at Westminster during one of the debates on the
Home Rule Bill, said scornfully,  "We do not fear oppressive
legislation.  We know in fact there would be none.  What we do fear
is oppressive administration."  That I translate to mean that Ulster
feels that the policy of the spoils to the victors would be adopted,
and that jobbery in Nationalist and Catholic interests would be rampant.
There are as many honest Nationalists and Catholics who would object
to this as there are Protestant Unionists, and they would readily
accept as part of any settlement the proposal that all posts which
can rightly be filled by competitive examination shall only be
filled after examination by Irish Civil Service Commissioners, and
that this should include all posts paid for out of public funds
whether directly under the Irish Government or under County Councils,
Urban Councils, Corporations, or Boards of Guardians.  Further,
they would allow the Ulster Counties through their members a veto
on any important administrative position where the area of the
official's operation was largely confined to North-East Ulster, if
such posts were of a character which could not rightly be filled
after examination and-must needs be a government appointment.  I
have heard the suspicion expressed that Gaelic might be made a
subject compulsory on all candidates, and that this would prejudice
the chances of Ulster candidates desirous of entering the Civil
Service.  Nationalist opinion would readily agree that, if marks
were given for Gaelic, an alternative language, such as French or
German, should be allowed the candidate as a matter of choice and
the marks given be of equal value.  By such concession jobbery
would be made impossible.  The corruption and bribery now prevalent
in local government would be a thing of the past.  Nationalists
and Unionists alike would be assured of honest administration and
that merit and efficiency, not membership of some sectarian or
political association, would lead to public service.

20. If that would not be regarded as adequate protection Nationalists
are ready to consider with friendly minds any other safeguards
proposed either by Ulster or Southern Unionists, though in my opinion
the less there are formal and legal acknowledgments of differences
the better, for it is desirable that Protestant and Catholic,
Unionist and Nationalist should meet and redivide along other lines
than those of religion or past party politics, and it is obvious
that the raising of artificial barriers might perpetuate the present
lines of division.  A real settlement is impossible without the
inclusion of the whole province in the Irish State, and apart from
the passionate sentiment existing in Nationalist Ireland for the
unity of the whole country there are strong economic bonds between
Ulster and the three provinces.  Further, the exclusion of all or
a large part of Ulster would make the excluded part too predominantly
industrial and the rest of Ireland too exclusively agricultural,
tending to prevent that right balance between rural and urban
industry which all nations should aim at and which makes for a
varied intellectual life, social and political wisdom and a healthy
national being.  Though for the sake of obliteration of past
differences I would prefer as little building by legislation of
fences isolating one section of the community from another, still
I am certain that if Ulster, as the price of coming into a self-
governing Ireland, demanded some application of the Swiss Cantonal
system to itself which would give it control over local administration
it could have it;  or, again, it could be conceded the powers of
local control vested in the provincial governments in Canada, where
the provincial assemblies have exclusive power to legislate for
themselves in respect of local works, municipal institutions, licenses,
and administration of justice in the province.  Further, subject to
certain provisions protecting the interests of different religious
bodies, the provincial assemblies have the exclusive power to make
laws upon education.  Would not this give Ulster all the guarantees
for civil and religious liberty it requires?  What arguments of
theirs, what fears have they expressed which would not be met by
such control over local administration?  I would prefer that the
mind of Ulster should argue its points with the whole of Ireland
and press its ideals upon it without reservation of its wisdom for
itself.  But doubtless if Ulster accepted this proposal it would
benefit the rest of Ireland by the model it would set of efficient
administration:  and it would, I have no doubt, insert in its
provincial constitution all the safeguards for minorities there
which they would ask should be inserted in any Irish constitution
to protect the interest of their co-religionists in that part of
Ireland where they are in a minority.

21.  I can deal only with fundamentals in this memorandum, because
it is upon fundamentals there are differences of thinking.  Once
these are settled it would be comparatively easy to devise the
necessary clauses in an Irish constitution, giving safeguards to
England for the due payment of the advances under the Land Acts,
and the principles upon which an Irish contribution should be made
to the empire for naval and military purposes.  It was suggested
by Mr. Lionel Curtis in his "Problems of the Commonwealth," that
assessors might be appointed by the dominions to fix the fair
taxable capacity of each for this purpose.  It will be observed
that while I have claimed for Ireland the status of a dominion, I
have referred solely hitherto to the powers of control over trade
policy, customs, excise, taxation and legislation possessed by the
dominions, and have not claimed for Ireland the right to have an
army or a navy of its own.  I recognize that the proximity of the
two islands makes it desirable to consolidate the naval power under
the control of the Admiralty.  The regular army should remain in
the same way under the War Office which would have the power of
recruiting in Ireland.  The Irish Parliament would, I have no doubt,
be willing to raise at its own expense under an Irish Territorial
Council a Territorial Force similar to that of England but not
removable from Ireland.  Military conscription could never be
permitted except by Act of the Irish Parliament.  It would be a
denial of the first principle of nationality if the power of
conscripting the citizens of the country lay not in the hands of
the National Parliament but was exercised by another nation.

22.  While a self-governing Ireland would contribute money to the
defense of the federated empire, it would not be content that that
money should be spent on dockyards, arsenals, camps, harbors, naval
stations, ship-building and supplies in Great Britain to the almost
complete neglect of Ireland as at present.  A large contribution
for such purposes spent outside Ireland would be an economic drain
if not balanced by counter expenditure here.  This might be effected
by the training of a portion of the navy and army and the Irish
regiments of the regular army in Ireland, and their equipment,
clothing, supplies, munitions and rations being obtained through
an Irish department.  Naval dockyards should be constructed here
and a proportion of ships built in them.  Just as surely as there
must be a balance between the imports and exports of a country, so
must there be a balance between the revenue raised in a nation and
the public expenditure on that nation.  Irish economic depression
after the Act of Union was due in large measure to absentee
landlordism and the expenditure of Irish revenue outside Ireland
with no proportionate return.  This must not be expected to continue
against Irish interests.  Ireland, granted the freedom it desires,
would be willing to defend its freedom and the freedom of other
dominions in the commonwealth of nations it belonged to, but it
is not willing to allow millions to be raised in Ireland and spent
outside Ireland.  If three or five millions are raised in Ireland
for imperial purposes and spent in Great Britain it simply means
that the vast employment of labor necessitated takes place outside
Ireland:  whereas if spent here it would mean the employment of
many thousands of men, the support of their families, and in the
economic chain would follow the support of those who cater for
them in food, clothing, housing, etc.  Even with the best will in
the world, to do its share towards its defense of the freedom it
had attained, Ireland could not permit such an economic drain on
its resources.  No country could approve of a policy which in its
application means the emigration of thousands of its people every
year while it continued.

23.  I believe even if there were no historical basis for Irish
nationalism that such claims as I have stated would have become
inevitable, because the tendency of humanity as it develops
intellectually and spiritually is to desire more and more freedom,
and to substitute more and more an internal law for the external
law or government, and that the solidarity of empires or nations
will depend not so much upon the close texture of their political
organization or the uniformity of mind so engendered as upon the
freedom allowed and the delight people feel in that freedom.  The
more educated a man is the more it is hateful to him to be
constrained and the more impossible does it become for central
governments to provide by regulation for the infinite variety of
desires and cultural developments which spring up everywhere and
are in themselves laudable, and in no way endanger the State.  A
recognition of this has already led to much decentralization in
Great Britain itself.  And if the claim for more power in the
administration of local affairs was so strongly felt in a homogeneous
country like Great Britain that, through its county council system,
people in districts like Kent or Essex have been permitted control
over education and the purchase of land, and the distribution of it
to small holders, how much more passionately must this desire for
self-control be felt in Ireland where people have a different
national character which has survived all the educational experiments
to change them into the likeness of their neighbors.  The battle
which is going on in the world has been stated to be a spiritual
conflict between those who desire greater freedom for the individual
and think that the State exists to preserve that freedom, and those
who believe in the predominance of the state and the complete
subjection of the individual to it and the molding of the individual
mind in its image.  This has been stated, and if the first view is
a declaration of ideals sincerely held by Great Britain it would
mean the granting to Ireland, a country which has expressed its
wishes by vaster majorities than were ever polled in any other
country for political changes, the satisfaction of its desires.

24.  The acceptance of the proposals here made would mean sacrifices
for the two extremes in Ireland, and neither party has as yet made
any real sacrifice to meet the other, but each has gone on its own
way.  I urge upon them that if the suggestions made here were
accepted both would obtain substantially what they desire, the
Ulster Unionists that safety for their interests and provision
for Ireland's unity with the commonwealth of dominions inside the
empire;  the Nationalists that power they desire to create an Irish
civilization by self-devised and self-checked efforts.  The
brotherhood of domimons of which they would form one would be
inspired as much by the fresh life and wide democratic outlook
of Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Canada, as by the
hoarier political wisdom of Great Britain;  and military, naval,
foreign and colonial policy must in the future be devised by the
representatives of those dominions sitting in council together
with the representatives of Great Britain.  Does not that indicate
a different form of imperialism from that they hold in no friendly
memory?  It would not be imperialism in the ancient sense but a
federal union of independent nations to protect national liberties,
which might draw into its union other peoples hitherto unconnected
with it, and so beget a league of nations to make a common
international law prevail.  The allegiance would be to common
principles which mankind desire and would not permit the domination
of any one race.  We have not only to be good Irishmen but good
citizens of the world, and one is as important as the other, for
earth is more and more forcing on its children a recognition of
their fundamental unity, and that all rise and fall and suffer
together, and that none can escape the infection from their common
humanity.  If these ideas emerge from the world conflict and are
accepted as world morality it will be some compensation for the
anguish of learning the lesson.  We in Ireland like the rest of
the world must rise above ourselves and our differences if we are
to manifest the genius which is in us, and play a noble part in
world history.


THE NEW NATION


In that cycle of history which closed in 1914, but which seems now
to the imagination as far sunken behind time as Babylon or Samarcand,
it was customary at the festival of the Incarnation to forego our
enmities for a little and allow freer play to the spiritual in our
being.  Since 1914 all things in the world and with us, too, in
Ireland have existed in a welter of hate, but the rhythm of ancient
habit cannot altogether have passed away, and now if at any time,
it should be possible to blow the bugles of Heaven and recall men
to that old allegiance.  I do not think it would help now if I, or
another, put forward arguments drawn from Irish history or economics
to convince any party that they were wrong and their opponents right.
I think absolute truth might be stated in respect of these things,
and yet it would affect nothing in our present mood.  It would not
be recognized any more than Heaven, when It walked on earth in the
guise of a Carpenter, was hailed by men whose minds were filled by
other imaginations of that coming.

I will not argue about the past, but would ask Irishmen to consider
how in future they may live together.  Do they contemplate the
continuance of these bitter hatreds in our own household?  The war
must have a finale.  Many thousands of Irishmen will return to their
country who have faced death for other ideals than those which
inspire many more thousands now in Ireland and make them also
fearless of death.  How are these to co-exist in the same island
if there is no change of heart?  Each will receive passionate support
from relatives, friends, and parties who uphold their action.  This
will be a most unhappy country if we cannot arrive at some moral
agreement, as necessary as a political agreement.  Partition is no
settlement, because there is no geographical limitation of these
passions.  There is scarce a locality in Ireland where antagonisms
do not gather about the thought of Ireland as in the caduceus of
Mercury the twin serpents writhe about the sceptre of the god.  I
ask our national extremists in what mood do they propose to meet
those who return, men of temper as stern as their own?  Will these
endure being termed traitors to Ireland?  Will their friends endure
it?  Will those who mourn their dead endure to hear scornful speech
of those they loved?  That way is for us a path to Hell.  The
unimaginative who see only a majority in their own locality, or,
perhaps, in the nation, do not realize what a powerful factor in
national life are those who differ from them, and how they are
upheld by a neighboring nation which, for all its present travail,
is more powerful by far than Ireland even if its people were united
in purpose as the fingers of one hand.  Nor can those who hold to,
and are upheld by, the Empire hope to coerce to a uniformity of
feeling with themselves the millions clinging to Irish nationality.
Seven centuries of repression have left that spirit unshaken, nor
can it be destroyed save by the destruction of the Irish people,
because it springs from biological necessity.  As well might a
foolish gardener trust that his apple-tree would bring forth grapes
as to dream that there could be uniformity of character and
civilization between Irishmen and Englishmen.  It would be a crime
against life if it could be brought about and diversities of culture
and civilization made impossible.  We may live at peace with our
neighbors when it is agreed that we must be different, and no peace
is possible in the world between nations except on this understanding.
But I am not now thinking of that, but of the more urgent problem
how we are to live at peace with each other.  I am convinced Irish
enmities are perpetuated because we live by memory more than by hope,
and that even now on the facts of character there is no justification
for these enmities.

We have been told that there are two nations in Ireland.  That
may have been so in the past, but it is not true today.  The union
of Norman and Dane and Saxon and Celt which has been going on
through the centuries is now completed, and there is but one powerful
Irish character--not Celtic or Norman-Saxon, but a new race.  We
should recognize our moral identity.  It was apparent before the
war in the methods by which Ulstermen and Nationalists alike strove
to defend or win their political objects.  There is scarce an Ulsterman,
whether he regards his ancestors as settlers or not, who is not
allied through marriage by his forbears to the ancient race.  There
is in his veins the blood of the people who existed before Patrick,
and he can look backward through time to the legends of the Red
Branch, the Fianna and the gods as the legends of his people.  It
would be as difficult to find even on the Western Coast a family
which has not lost in the same way its Celtic purity of race.  The
character of all is fed from many streams which have mingled in
them and have given them a new distinctiveness.  The invasions of
Ireland and the Plantations, however morally unjustifiable, however
cruel in method, are justified by biology.  The invasion of one
race by another was nature's ancient way of reinvigorating a people.

Mr. Flinders Petrie, in his "Revolutions of Civilization," has
demonstrated that civilization comes in waves, that races rise to
a pinnacle of power and culture, and decline from that, and fall
into decadence, from which they do not emerge until there has been
a crossing of races, a fresh intermingling of cultures.  He showed
in ancient Egypt eight such periods, and after every decline into
decadence there was an invasion, the necessary precedent to a fresh
ascent with reinvigorated energies.  I prefer to dwell upon the
final human results of this commingling of races than upon the
tyrannies and conflicts which made it possible.  The mixture of
races has added to the elemental force of the Celtic character a
more complex mentality, and has saved us from becoming, as in our
island isolation we might easily have become, thin and weedy, like
herds where there has been too much in-breeding.  The modern Irish
are a race built up from many races who have to prove themselves
for the future.  Their animosities, based on past history, have
little justification in racial diversity today, for they are a new
people with only superficial cultural and political differences,
but with the same fundamental characteristics.  It is hopeless, the
dream held by some that the ancient Celtic character could absorb
the new elements, become dominant once more, and be itself unchanged.
It is equally hopeless to dream the Celtic element could be eliminated.
We are a new people, and not the past, but the future, is to justify
this new nationality.

I believe it was this powerful Irish character which stirred in
Ulster before the war, leading it to adopt methods unlike the Anglo-
Saxon tradition in politics.  I believe that new character, far
more than the spirit of the ancient race, was the ferment in the
blood of those who brought about the astonishing enterprise of
Easter Week.  Pearse himself, for all his Gaelic culture, was sired
by one of the race he fought against.  He might stand in that
respect as a symbol of the new race which is springing up.  We are
slowly realizing the vigor of the modern Irish character just
becoming self-conscious of itself.  I had met many men who were in
the enterprise of Easter Week and listened to their spirit their
speech, but they had to prove to myself and others by more than words.
I listened with that half-cynical feeling which is customary with
us when men advocate a cause with which we are temperamentally
sympathetic, but about whose realization we are hopeless.  I could
not gauge the strength of the new spirit, for words do not by
themselves convey the quality of power in men;  and even when the
reverberations from Easter Week were echoing everywhere in Ireland,
for a time I, and many others, thought and felt about those who
died as some pagan concourse in ancient Italy might have felt
looking down upon an arena, seeing below a foam of glorious faces
turned to them, the noble, undismayed, inflexible faces of martyrs,
and, without understanding, have realized that this spirit was
stronger than death.  I believe that capacity for sacrifice, that
devotion to ideals exists equally among the opponents of these men.
It would have been proved in Ireland, in Ulster, if the need had
arisen.  It has been proved on many a battlefield of Europe.
Whatever views we may hold about the relative value of national
or Imperial ideals, we may recognize that there is moral equality
where the sacrifice is equal.  No one has more to give than life,
and, when that is given, neither Nationalist nor Imperialist in
Ireland can claim moral superiority for the dead champions of
their causes.

And here I come to the purpose of my letter, which is to deprecate
the scornful repudiation by Irishmen of other Irishmen, which is
so common at present, and which helps to perpetuate our feuds.  We
are all one people.  We are closer to each other in character than
we are to any other race.  The necessary preliminary to political
adjustment is moral adjustment, forgiveness, and mutual understanding.
I have been in council with others of my countrymen for several
months, and I noticed what an obstacle it was to agreement how few,
how very few, there were who had been on terms of friendly intimacy
with men of all parties.  There was hardly one who could have given
an impartial account of the ideals and principles of his opponents.
Our political differences have brought about social isolations, and
there can be no understanding where there is no eagerness to meet
those who differ from us, and hear the best they have to say for
themselves.  This letter is an appeal to Irishmen to seek out and
understand their political opponents.  If they come to know each
other, they will come to trust each other, and will realize their
kinship, and will set their faces to the future together, to build
up a civilization which will justify their nationality.

I myself am Anglo-Irish, with the blood of both races in me, and
when the rising of Easter Week took place all that was Irish in me
was profoundly stirred, and out of that mood I wrote commemorating
the dead.  And then later there rose in memory the faces of others
I knew who loved their country, but had died in other battles.  They
fought in those because they believed they would serve Ireland, and
I felt these were no less my people.  I could hold them also in my
heart and pay tribute to them.  Because it was possible for me to
do so, I think it is possible for others;  and in the hope that the
deeds of all may in the future be a matter of pride to the new nation
I append here these verses I have written:--

To the Memory of Some I knew Who are Dead and Who Loved Ireland.

     Their dream had left me numb and cold,
          But yet my spirit rose in pride,
     Refashioning in burnished gold
          The images of those who died,
     Or were shut in the penal cell.
          Here's to you, Pearse, your dream not mine,
     But yet the thought, for this you fell,
          Has turned life's water into wine.

     You who have died on Eastern hills
          Or fields of France as undismayed,
     Who lit with interlinked wills
          The long heroic barricade,
     You, too, in all the dreams you had,
          Thought of some thing for Ireland done.
     Was it not so, Oh, shining lad,
          What lured you, Alan Anderson?

     I listened to high talk from you,
          Thomas McDonagh, and it seemed
     The words were idle, but they grew
          To nobleness by death redeemed.
     Life cannot utter words more great
          Than life may meet by sacrifice,
     High words were equaled by high fate,
          You paid the price. You paid the price.

     You who have fought on fields afar,
          That other Ireland did you wrong
     Who said you shadowed Ireland's star,
          Nor gave you laurel wreath nor song.
     You proved by death as true as they,
          In mightier conflicts played your part,
     Equal your sacrifice may weigh,
          Dear Kettle, of the generous heart.

     The hope lives on age after age,
          Earth with its beauty might be won
     For labor as a heritage,
          For this has Ireland lost a son.
     This hope unto a flame to fan
          Men have put life by with a smile,
     Here's to you Connolly, my man,
          Who cast the last torch on the pile.

     You too, had Ireland in your care,
          Who watched o'er pits of blood and mire,
     From iron roots leap up in air
          Wild forests, magical, of fire;
     Yet while the Nuts of Death were shed
          Your memory would ever stray
     To your own isle. Oh, gallant dead--
          This wreath, Will Redmond, on your clay.

     Here's to you, men I never met,
          Yet hope to meet behind the veil,
     Thronged on some starry parapet,
          That looks down upon Innisfail,
     And sees the confluence of dreams
          That clashed together in our night,
     One river, born from many streams,
          Roll in one blaze of blinding light.

December 1917


THE SPIRITUAL CONFLICT

Prophetic


I am told when a gun is fired it recoils with almost as much force
as urges forward the projectile. It is the triumph of the military
engineer that he anticipates and provides for this recoil when
designing the weapon.  Nations prepare for war, but do not, as the
military engineer in his sphere does, provide for the recoil on
society.  It is difficult to foresee clearly what will happen.
Possible changes in territory, economic results, the effect on a
social order receive consideration while war is being waged.  But
how war may affect our intellectual and spiritual life is not always
apparent.  Material victories are often spiritual defeats.  History
has record of nationalities which were destroyed and causes whose
followers were overborne, yet they left their ideas behind them as
a glory in the air, and these incarnated anew in the minds of the
conquerors.  Ideas are things which can only be conquered by a
greater beauty or intellectual power, and they are never more
powerful than when they do not come threatening us in alliance
with physical forces.  I have no doubt there are many today who
watch the cloud over Europe as we may imagine some Israelite of
old gazing on that awful cloudy pillar wherein was the Lord, in
hope or fear for some revelation of the spirit hidden in cloud
and fire.  What idea is hidden in the fiery pillar which moves
over Europe?  What form will it assume in its manifestation?  How
will it exercise dominion over the spirit?  Whatever idea is most
powerful in the world must draw to it the intellect and spirit of
humanity, and it will be monarch over their minds either by reason
of their love or hate for it.  It is more true to say we must think
of the most powerful than to say we must love the highest, because
even the blind can feel power, while it is rare to have vision of
high things.

A little over a century ago all the needles of being pointed to
France.  A peculiar manifestation of the democratic idea had become
the most powerful thing in the world of moral forces.  It went on
multiplying images of itself in men's minds through after generations;
and, because thought, like matter, is subject to the laws of action
and reaction, which indeed is the only safe basis for prophecy, this
idea inevitably found itself opposed by a contrary idea in the world.
Today all the needles of being point to Germany, where the apparition
of the organized State is manifest with every factor, force, and
entity co-ordinated, so that the State might move myriads and yet
have the swift freedom of the athletic individual.  The idea that
the State exists for the people is countered by the idea that the
individual exists for the State.  France in a violent reaction found
itself dominated by a Caesar.  Germany may find itself without a
Caesar, but with a social democracy.

But, if it does, will the idea Europe is fighting be conquered?  Was
the French idea conquered either by the European confederation without
or by Napoleon within?  It invaded men's minds everywhere;  and in
few countries did the democratic ideas operate more powerfully than
in these islands, where the State was a most determined antagonist
of their material manifestations in France.  The German idea has
sufficient power to unite the free minds of half the world against
it.  But is it not already invading, and Will it not still more
invade, the minds of rulers?  All Governments are august kinsmen
of each other, and discreetly imitate each other in policy where
it may conduce to power or efficiency.  The efficiency of the
highly organized State as a vehicle for the manifestation of power
must today be sinking into the minds of those who guide the destinies
of races.  The State in these islands, before a year of war has
passed, has already assumed control over myriads of industrial
enterprises.  The back-wash of great wars, their reaction within
the national being after prolonged effort, is social disturbance;
and it seems that the State will be unable easily, after this war,
to relax its autocratic power.  There may come a time when it would
be possible for it to do so;  but the habit of overlordship will
have grown, there will be many who will wish it to grow still more,
and a thousand reasons can be found why the mastery over national
organizations should be relaxed but little.  The recoil on society
after the war will be almost as powerful as the energy expended
in conflict;  and our political engineers will have to provide for
the recoil.  By the analogy of the French Revolution, by what we
see taking place today, it seems safe to prophesy that the State
will become more dominant over the lives of men than ever before.

In a quarter of a century there will hardly be anybody so obscure,
so isolated in his employment, that he will not, by the development
of the organized State, be turned round to face it and to recognize
it as the most potent factor in his life.  From that it follows of
necessity that literature will be concerned more and more with the
shaping of the character of this Great Being.  In free democracies,
where the State interferes little with the lives of men, the mood
in literature tends to become personal and subjective;  the poets
sing a solitary song about nature, love, twilight, and the stars;
the novelists deal with the lives of private persons, enlarging
individual liberties of action and thought.  Few concern themselves
with the character of the State.  But when it strides in, an
omnipresent overlord, organizing and directing life and industry,
then the individual imagination must be directed to that collective
life and power.  For one writer today concerned with high politics
we may expect to find hundreds engaged in a passionate attempt to
create the new god in their own image.

This may seem a far-fetched speculation, but not to those who see
how through the centuries humanity has oscillated like a pendulum
betwixt opposing ideals.  The greatest reactions have been from
solidarity to liberty and from liberty to solidarity.  The religious
solidarity of Europe in the Middle Ages was broken by a passionate
desire in the heart of millions for liberty of thought.  A reaction
rarely, if ever, brings people back to a pole deserted centuries
before.  The coming solidarity is the domination of the State;  and
to speculate whether that again will be broken up by a new religious
movement would be to speculate without utility.  What we ought to
realize is that these reactions take place within one being, humanity,
and indicate eternal desires of the soul.  They seem to urge on us
the idea that there is a pleroma, or human fullness, in which the
opposites may be reconciled, and that the divine event to which we
are moving is a State in which there will be essential freedom
combined with an organic unity.  At the last analysis are not all
empires, nationalities, and movements spiritual in their origin,
beginning with desires of the soul and externalizing themselves in
immense manifestations of energy in which the original will is often
submerged and lost sight of?  If in their inception national ideals
are spiritual, their final object must also be spiritual, perhaps
to make man a yet freer agent, but acting out of a continual
consciousness of his unity with humanity.  The discipline which
the highly organized State imposes on its subjects connects them
continuously in thought to something greater than themselves, and
so ennobles the average man.  The freedom which the policy of other
nations permits quickens intelligence and will.  Each policy has
its own defects;  with one a loss in individual initiative, with
the other self-absorption and a lower standard of citizenship or
interest in national affairs.  The oscillations in society provide
the corrective.

We are going to have our free individualism tempered by a more
autocratic action by the State.  There are signs that with our
enemy the moral power which attracts the free to the source of
their liberty is being appreciated, and the policy which retained
for Britain its Colonies and secured their support in an hour of
peril is contrasted with the policy of the iron hand in Poland.
Neither Germany nor Britain can escape being impressed by the
characteristics of the other in the shock of conflict.  It may
seem a paradoxical outcome of the spiritual conflict Mr. Asquith
announced.  But history is quick with such ironies.  What we
condemned in others is the measure which is meted out to us.  Indeed
it might almost be said that all war results in an exchange of
characteristics, and if the element of hatred is strong in the
conflict it will certainly bring a nation to every baseness of the
foe it fights.  Love and hate are alike in this, that they change us
into the image we contemplate.  We grow nobly like what we adore
through love and ignobly like what we contemplate through hate.  It
will be well for us if we remember that all our political ideals are
symbols of spiritual destinies.  These clashings of solidarity and
freedom will enrich our spiritual life if we understand of the first
that our thirst for greatness, for the majesty of empire, is a symbol
of our final unity with a greater majesty, and if we remember of
the second that, as an old scripture said, "The universe exists for
the purposes of soul."

1915


ON AN IRISH HILL


It has been my dream for many years that I might at some time dwell
in a cabin on the hillside in this dear and living land of ours,
and there I would lay my head in the lap of a serene nature, and
be on friendly terms with the winds and mountains who hold enough
of unexplored mystery and infinitude to engage me at present.  I
would not dwell too far from men, for above an enchanted valley,
only a morning's walk from the city, is the mountain of my dream.
Here, between heaven and earth and my brothers, there might come
on me some foretaste of the destiny which the great powers are
shaping for us in this isle, the mingling of God and nature and
man in a being, one, yet infinite in number.  Old tradition has it
that there was in our mysterious past such a union, a sympathy
between man and the elements so complete, that at every great deed
of hero or king the three swelling waves of Fohla responded:  the
wave of Toth, the wave of Rury, and the long, slow, white, foaming
wave of Cleena.  O mysterious kinsmen, would that today some deed
great enough could call forth the thunder of your response once again!
But perhaps he is now rocked in his cradle who will hereafter rock
you into joyous foam.

The mountain which I praise has not hitherto been considered one
of the sacred places in Eire, no glittering tradition hangs about
it as a lure and indeed I would not have it considered as one in
any special sense apart from its companions, but I take it here
as a type of what any high place in nature may become for us if
well loved;  a haunt of deep peace, a spot where the Mother lays
aside veil after veil, until at last the great Spirit seems in
brooding gentleness to be in the boundless fields alone.  I am not
inspired by that brotherhood which does not overflow with love
into the being of the elements, not hail in them the same spirit
as that which calls us with so many pathetic and loving voices
from the lives of men.  So I build my dream cabin in hope of its
wider intimacy:

     A cabin on the mountain side hid in a grassy nook,
     With door and windows open wide, where friendly stars may look;
     The rabbit shy can patter in;  the winds may enter free
     Who throng around the mountain throne in living ecstasy.
     And when the sun sets dimmed in eve and purple fills the air,
     I think the sacred Hazel Tree is dropping berries there
     From starry fruitage waved aloft where Connla's well o'er-flows:
     For sure the immortal waters pour through every wind that blows.
     I think when night towers up aloft and shakes the trembling dew,
     How every high and lonely thought that thrills my being through
     Is but a shining berry dropped down through the purple air,
     And from the magic tree of life the fruit falls everywhere.


The Sacred Hazel was the Celtic branch of the Tree of Life;  its
scarlet nuts gave wisdom and inspiration;  and fed on this ethereal
fruit, the ancient Gael grew to greatness.  Though today none eat
of the fruit or drink the purple flood welling from Connla's fountain,
I think that the fire which still kindles the Celtic races was
flashed into their blood in that magical time, and is our heritage
from the Druidic past.  It is still here, the magic and mystery:
it lingers in the heart of a people to whom their neighbors of
another world are frequent visitors in the spirit and over-shadowers
of reverie and imagination.

The earth here remembers her past, and to bring about its renewal
she whispers with honeyed entreaty and lures with bewitching glamour.
At this mountain I speak of it was that our greatest poet, the last
and most beautiful voice of Eire, first found freedom in song, so
he tells me:  and it was the pleading for a return to herself that
this mysterious nature first fluted through his lips:

     Come away, O human child,
     To the Woods and waters wild
     With a faery hand in hand:

For the world's more full of weeping than you can understand.

Away! yes, yes;  to wander on and on under star-rich skies, ever
getting deeper into the net, the love that will not let us rest,
the peace above the desire of love.  The village lights in heaven
and earth, each with their own peculiar hint of home, draw us hither
and thither, where it matters not, so the voice calls and the heart-
light burns.

Some it leads to the crowded ways;  some it draws apart:  and the
Light knows, and not any other, the need and the way.

If you ask me what has the mountain to do with these inspirations,
and whether the singer would not anywhere out of his own soul have
made an equal song, I answer to the latter, I think not.  In these
lofty places the barrier between the sphere of light and the sphere
of darkness are fragile, and the continual ecstasy of the high air
communicates itself, and I have also heard from others many tales
of things seen and heard here which show that the races of the Sidhe
are often present.  Some have seen below the mountain a blazing
heart of light, others have heard the Musical beating of a heart,
of faery bells, or aerial clashings, and the heart-beings have also
spoken;  so it has gathered around itself its own traditions of
spiritual romance and adventures of the soul.

Let no one call us dreamers when the mind is awake.  If we grew
forgetful and felt no more the bitter human struggle--yes.  But if
we bring to it the hope and courage of those who are assured of
the nearby presence and encircling love of the great powers?  I
would bring to my mountain the weary spirits who are obscured in
the fetid city where life decays into rottenness;  and call thither
those who are in doubt, the pitiful and trembling hearts who are
skeptic of any hope, and place them where the dusky vapors of their
thought might dissolve in the inner light, and their doubts vanish
on the mountain top where the earthbreath streams away to the vast,
when the night glows like a seraph, and the spirit is beset by the
evidence of a million of suns to the grandeur of the nature wherein
it lives and whose destiny must be its also.

After all, is not this longing but a search for ourselves, and
where shall we find ourselves at last?  Not in this land nor wrapped
in these garments of an hour, but wearing the robes of space whither
these voices out of the illimitable allure us, now with love, and
anon with beauty or power.  In our past the mighty ones came
glittering across the foam of the mystic waters and brought their
warriors away.

Perhaps, and this also is my hope, they may again return;  Manannan,
on his ocean-sweeping boat, a living creature, diamond-winged, or Lu,
bright as the dawn, on his fiery steed, manned with tumultuous flame,
or some hitherto unknown divinity may stand suddenly by me on the
hill, and hold out the Silver Branch with white blossoms from the
Land of Youth, and stay me ere I depart with the sung call as of old:

     Tarry thou yet, late lingerer in the twilight's glory
     Gay are the hills with song:  earth's faery children leave
     More dim abodes to roam the primrose-hearted eve,
     Opening their glimmering lips to breathe some wondrous story.
     Hush, not a whisper!  Let your heart alone go dreaming.
     Dream unto dream may pass:  deep in the heart alone
     Murmurs the Mighty One his solemn undertone.
     Canst thou not see adown the silver cloudland streaming
     Rivers of faery light, dewdrop on dewdrop falling,
     Starfire of silver flames, lighting the dark beneath?
     And what enraptured hosts burn on the dusky heath!
     Come thou away with them for Heaven to Earth is calling.
     These are Earth's voice--her answer--spirits thronging.
     Come to the Land of Youth:  the trees grown heavy there
     Drop on the purple wave the starry fruit they bear.
     Drink! the immortal waters quench the spirit's longing.
     Art thou not now, bright one, all sorrow past, in elation,
     Filled with wild joy, grown brother-hearted with the vast,
     Whither thy spirit wending flits the dim stars past
     Unto the Light of Lights in burning adoration.

1896


RELIGION AND LOVE


I have often wondered whether there is not something wrong in our
religious systems in that the same ritual, the same doctrines, the
same aspirations are held to be sufficient both for men and women.
The tendency everywhere is to obliterate distinctions, and if a
woman be herself she is looked upon unkindly.  She rarely
understands our metaphysics, and she gazes on the expounder of
the mystery of the Logos with enigmatic eyes which reveal the
enchantment of another divinity.  The ancients were wiser than we
in this, for they had Aphrodite and Hera and many another form of
the Mighty Mother who bestowed on women their peculiar graces and
powers.  Surely no girl in ancient Greece ever sent up to all-
pervading Zeus a prayer that her natural longings might be fulfilled;
but we may be sure that to Aphrodite came many such prayers.  The
deities we worship today are too austere for women to approach with
their peculiar desires, and indeed in Ireland the largest number of
our people do not see any necessity for love-making at all, or what
connection spiritual powers have with the affections.  A girl,
without repining, will follow her four-legged dowry to the house
of a man she may never have spoken twenty words to before her marriage.
We praise our women for their virtue, but the general acceptance of
the marriage as arranged shows so unemotional, so undesirable a
temperament, that it is not to be wondered at.  One wonders was
there temptation.

What the loss to the race may be it is impossible to say, but it
is true that beautiful civilizations are built up by the desire of
man to give his beloved all her desires.  Where there is no beloved,
but only a housekeeper, there are no beautiful fancies to create
the beautiful arts, no spiritual protest against the mean dwelling,
no hunger build the world anew for her sake.  Aphrodite is outcast
and with her many of the other immortals have also departed.  The
home life in Ireland is probably more squalid than with any other
people equally prosperous in Europe.  The children begotten without
love fill more and more the teeming asylums.  We are without art;
literature is despised;  we have few of those industries which
spring up in other countries in response to the desire of woman to
make gracious influences pervade the home of her partner, a desire
to which man readily yields, and toils to satisfy if he loves truly.
The desire for beauty has come almost to be regarded as dangerous,
if not sinful;  and the woman who is still the natural child of the
Great Mother and priestess of the mysteries, if she betray the desire
to exercise her divinely-given powers, if there be enchantment in
her eyes and her laugh, and if she bewilder too many men, is in our
latest code of morals distinctly an evil influence.  The spirit,
melted and tortured with love, which does not achieve its earthly
desire, is held to have wasted its strength, and the judgment which
declares the life to be wrecked is equally severe on that which
caused this wild conflagration in the heart.  But the end of life
is not comfort but divine being.  We do not regard the life which
closed in the martyr's fire as ended ignobly.  The spiritual philosophy
which separates human emotions and ideas, and declares some to be
secular and others spiritual, is to blame.  There is no meditation
which if prolonged will not bring us to the same world where religion
would carry us, and if a flower in the wall will lead us to all
knowledge, so the understanding of the peculiar nature of one half
of humanity will bring us far on our journey to the sacred deep.  I
believe it was this wise understanding which in the ancient world
declared the embodied spirit in man to be influenced more by the
Divine Mind and in woman by the Mighty Mother, by which nature in
its spiritual aspect was understood.  In this philosophy, Boundless
Being, when manifested, revealed itself in two forms of life, spirit
and substance;  and the endless evolution of its divided rays had
as its root impulse the desire to return to that boundless being.
By many ways blindly or half consciously the individual life strives
to regain its old fullness.  The spirit seeks union with nature to
pass from the life of vision into Pure being;  and nature, conscious
that its grosser forms are impermanent, is for ever dissolving and
leading its votary to a more distant shrine.  "Nature is timid like
a woman," declares an Indian scripture.  "She reveals herself shyly
and withdraws again."  All this metaphysic will not appear out of
place if we regard women as influenced beyond herself and her conscious
life for spiritual ends.  I do not enter a defense of the loveless
coquette, but the woman who has a natural delight in awakening love
in men is priestess of a divinity than which there is none mightier
among the rulers of the heavens.  Through her eyes, her laugh, in
all her motions, there is expressed more than she is conscious of
herself.  The Mighty Mother through the woman is kindling a symbol
of herself in the spirit, and through that symbol she breathes her
secret life into the heart, so that it is fed from within and is
drawn to herself.  We remember that with Dante, the image of a
woman became at last the purified vesture of his spirit through
which the mysteries were revealed.  We are for ever making our souls
with effort and pain, and shaping them into images which reveal or
are voiceless according to their degree;  and the man whose spirit
has been obsessed by a beauty so long brooded upon that he has
almost become that which he contemplated, owes much to the woman
who may never be his;  and if he or the world understood aright, he
has no cause of complaint.  It is the essentially irreligious spirit
of Ireland which has come to regard love as an unnecessary emotion
and the mingling of the sexes as dangerous.  For it is a curious
thing that while we commonly regard ourselves as the most religious
people in Europe, the reverse is probably true.  The country which
has never produced spiritual thinkers or religious teachers of whom
men have heard if we except Berkeley and perhaps the remote Johannes
Scotus Erigena, cannot pride itself on its spiritual achievement;
and it might seem even more paradoxical, but I think it would be
almost equally true, to say that the first spiritual note in our
literature was struck when a poet generally regarded as pagan wrote
it as the aim of his art to reveal--

     In all poor foolish things that live a day
     Eternal beauty wandering on her way.

The heavens do not declare the glory of God any more than do shining
eyes, nor the firmament show His handiwork more than the woven wind
of hair, for these were wrought with no lesser love than set the
young stars swimming in seas of joyous and primeval air.  If we
drink in the beauty of the night or the mountains, it is deemed to
be praise of the Maker, but if we show an equal adoration of the
beauty of man or woman, it is dangerous, it is almost wicked.  Of
course it is dangerous;  and without danger there is no passage to
eternal things.  There is the valley of the shadow beside the
pathway of light, and it always will be there, and the heavens
will never be entered by those who shrink from it.  Spirituality
is the power of apprehending formless spiritual essences, of seeing
the eternal in the transitory, and in the things which are seen
the unseen things of which they are the shadow.  I call Mr. Yeats'
poetry spiritual when it declares, as in the lines I quoted, that
there is no beauty so trivial that it is not the shadow of the
Eternal Beauty.  A country is religious where it is common belief
that all things are instinct with divinity, and where the love
between man and woman is seen as a symbol, the highest we have, of
the union of spirit and nature, and their final blending in the
boundless being.  For this reason the lightest desires even, the
lightest graces of women have a philosophical value for what
suggestions they bring us of the divinity behind them.

As men and women feel themselves more and more to be sharers of
universal aims, they will contemplate in each other and in themselves
that aspect of the boundless being under whose influence they are cast,
and will appeal to it for understanding and power.  Time, which is
for ever bringing back the old and renewing it, may yet bring back
to us some counterpart of Aphrodite or Hera as they were understood
by the most profound thinkers of the ancient world;  and women may
again have her temples and her mysteries, and renew again her radiant
life at its fountain, and feel that in seeking for beauty she is
growing more into her own ancestral being, and that in its shining
forth she is giving to man, as he may give to her, something of
that completeness of spirit of which it is written, "neither is
the man without the woman nor the woman without the man in the Highest."

It may seem strange that what is so clear should require statement,
but it is only with a kind of despair the man or woman of religious
mind can contemplate the materialism of our thought about life.  It
is not our natural heritage from the past, for the bardic poetry
shows that a heaven lay about us in the mystical childhood of our
race, and a supernatural original was often divined for the great
hero, or the beautiful woman.  All this perception has withered away,
for religion has become observance of rule and adherence to doctrine.
The first steps to the goal have been made sufficient in themselves;
but religion is useless unless it has a transforming power, unless
it is able "to turn fishermen into divines," and make the blind see
and the deaf hear.  They are no true teachers who cannot rise beyond
the world of sense and darkness and awaken the links within us from
earth to heaven, who cannot see within the heart what are its needs,
and who have not the power to open the poor blind eyes and touch the
ears that have heard no sound of the heavenly harmonies.  Our
clergymen do their best to deliver us from what they think is evil,
but do not lead us into the Kingdom.  They forget that the faculties
cannot be spiritualized by restraint but in use, and that the
greatest evil of all is not to be able to see the divine everywhere,
in life and love no less than in the solemn architecture of the
spheres.  In the free play of the beautiful and natural human
relations lie the greatest possibilities of spiritual development,
for heaven is not prayer nor praise but the fullness of life, which
is only divined through the richness and variety of life on earth.
There is a certain infinitude in the emotions of love, tenderness,
pity, joy, and all that is begotten in love, and this limitless
character of the emotions has never received the philosophical
consideration which is due to it, for even laughter may be considered
solemnly, and gaiety and joy in us are the shadowy echoes of that
joy spoken of the radiant Morning Stars, and there is not an emotion
in man or woman which has not, however perverted and muddied in its
coming, in some way flowed from the first fountain.  We are no more
divided from supernature than we are from our own bodies, and where
the life of man or woman is naturally most intense it most naturally
overflows and mingles with the subtler and more lovely world within.
If religion has no word to say upon this it is incomplete, and we
wander in the narrow circle of prayers and praise, wondering all the
while what is it we are praising God for, because we feel so
melancholy and lifeless.  Dante had a place in his Inferno for
the joyless souls, and if his conception be true the population
of that circle will be largely modern Irish.  A reaction against
this conventional restraint is setting in, and the needs of life
will perhaps in the future no longer be violated as they are today;
and since it is the pent-up flood of the joy which ought to be in
life which is causing this reaction, and since there is a divine
root in it, it is difficult to say where it might not carry us;
I hope into some renewal of ancient conceptions of the fundamental
purpose of womanhood and its relations to Divine Nature, and that
from the temples where woman may be instructed she will come forth,
with strength in her to resist all pleading until the lover worship
in her a divine womanhood, and that through their love the divided
portions of the immortal nature may come together and be one as
before the beginning of worlds.

1904


THE RENEWAL OF YOUTH


     I am a part of all that I have met;
     Yet all experience is an arch wherethro'
     Gleams that untravel'd world .....
          Come, my friends,
     'Tis not too late to seek a newer world.
                            --Ulysses


I.

Humanity is no longer the child it was at the beginning of the world.
The spirit which prompted by some divine intent, flung itself long
ago into a vague, nebulous, drifting nature, though it has endured
through many periods of youth, maturity, and age, has yet had its
own transformations.  Its gay, wonderful childhood gave way, as
cycle after cycle coiled itself into slumber, to more definite
purposes, and now it is old and burdened with experiences.  It is
not an age that quenches its fire, but it will not renew again the
activities which gave it wisdom.  And so it comes that men pause
with a feeling which they translate into weariness of life before
the accustomed joys and purposes of their race.  They wonder at
the spell which induced their fathers to plot and execute deeds
which seem to them to have no more meaning than a whirl of dust.
But their fathers had this weariness also and concealed it from
each other in fear, for it meant the laying aside of the sceptre,
the toppling over of empires, the chilling of the household warmth,
and all for a voice whose inner significance revealed itself but
to one or two among myriads.

The spirit has hardly emerged from the childhood with which nature
clothes it afresh at every new birth, when the disparity between
the garment and the wearer becomes manifest:  the little tissue
of joys and dreams woven about it is found inadequate for shelter:
it trembles exposed to the winds blowing out of the unknown.  We
linger at twilight with some companion, still glad, contented, and
in tune with the nature which fills the orchards with blossom and
sprays the hedges with dewy blooms.  The laughing lips give
utterance to wishes--ours until that moment.  Then the spirit,
without warning, suddenly falls into immeasurable age:  a sphinx-
like face looks at us:  our lips answer, but far from the region
of elemental being we inhabit, they syllable in shadowy sound, out
of old usage, the response, speaking of a love and a hope which
we know have vanished from us for evermore.  So hour by hour the
scourge of the infinite drives us out of every nook and corner of
life we find pleasant.  And this always takes place when all is
fashioned to our liking:  then into our dream strides the wielder
of the lightning:  we get glimpses of a world beyond us thronged
with mighty, exultant beings:  our own deeds become infinitesimal
to us:  the colors of our imagination, once so shining, grow pale
as the living lights of God glow upon them.  We find a little honey
in the heart which we make sweeter for some one, and then another
Lover, whose forms are legion, sighs to us out of its multitudinous
being:  we know that the old love is gone.  There is a sweetness in
song or in the cunning re-imaging of the beauty we see;  but the
Magician of the Beautiful whispers to us of his art, how we were
with him when he laid the foundations of the world, and the song
is unfinished, the fingers grow listless.  As we receive these
intimations of age our very sins become negative:  we are still
pleased if a voice praises us, but we grow lethargic in enterprises
where the spur to activity is fame or the acclamation of men.  At
some point in the past we may have struggled mightily for the sweet
incense which men offer to a towering personality;  but the infinite
is for ever within man:  we sighed for other worlds and found that
to be saluted as victor by men did not mean acceptance by the gods.

But the placing of an invisible finger upon our lips when we would
speak, the heart-throb of warning where we would love, that we grow
contemptuous of the prizes of life, does not mean that the spirit
has ceased from its labors, that the high-built beauty of the spheres
is to topple mistily into chaos, as a mighty temple in the desert
sinks into the sand, watched only by a few barbarians too feeble
to renew its ancient pomp and the ritual of its once shining
congregations.  Before we, who were the bright children of the dawn,
may return as the twilight race into the silence, our purpose must
be achieved, we have to assume mastery over that nature which now
overwhelms us, driving into the Fire-fold the flocks of stars and
wandering fires.  Does it seem very vast and far away?  Do you sigh
at the long, long time?  Or does it appear hopeless to you who
perhaps return with trembling feet evening after evening from a
little labor?  But it is behind all these things that the renewal
takes place, when love and grief are dead;  when they loosen their
hold on the spirit and it sinks back into itself, looking out on
the pitiful plight of those who, like it, are the weary inheritors
of so great destinies:  then a tenderness which is the most profound
quality of its being springs up like the outraying of the dawn, and
if in that mood it would plan or execute it knows no weariness, for
it is nourished from the First Fountain.  As for these feeble
children of the once glorious spirits of the dawn, only a vast hope
can arouse them from so vast a despair, for the fire will not
invigorate them for the repetition of petty deeds but only for the
eternal enterprise, the war in heaven, that conflict between Titan
and Zeus which is part of the never-ending struggle of the human
spirit to assert its supremacy over nature.  We, who he crushed by
this mountain nature piled above us, must arise again, unite to
storm the heavens and sit on the seats of the mighty.


II.


We speak out of too petty a spirit to each other;  the true poems,
said Whitman:

     Bring none to his or to her terminus or to be content and full,
     Whom they take they take into space to behold the birth of stars,
          to learn one of the meanings,
     To launch off with absolute faith, to sweep through the ceaseless
          rings and never be quiet again.

Here is inspiration--the voice of the soul.  Every word which really
inspires is spoken as if the Golden Age had never passed.  The great
teachers ignore the personal identity and speak to the eternal pilgrim.
Too often the form or surface far removed from beauty makes us falter,
and we speak to that form and the soul is not stirred.  But an equal
temper arouses it.  To whoever hails in it the lover, the hero, the
magician, it will respond, but not to him who accosts it in the name
and style of its outer self.  How often do we not long to break
through the veils which divide us from some one, but custom,
convention, or a fear of being misunderstood prevent us, and so
the moment passes whose heat might have burned through every barrier.
Out with it--out with it, the hidden heart, the love that is voiceless,
the secret tender germ of an infinite forgiveness.  That speaks to
the heart.  That pierces through many a vesture of the Soul.  Our
companion struggles in some labyrinth of passion.  We help him, we,
think, with ethic and moralities.

Ah, very well they are;  well to know and to keep, but wherefore?
For their own sake?  No, but that the King may arise in his beauty.
We write that in letters, in books, but to the face of the fallen
who brings back remembrance?  Who calls him by his secret name?
Let a man but feel for what high cause is his battle, for what is
his cyclic labor, and a warrior who is invincible fights for him
and he draws upon divine powers.  Our attitude to man and to nature,
expressed or not, has something of the effect of ritual, of evocation.
As our aspiration so is our inspiration.  We believe in life universal,
in a brotherhood which links the elements to man, and makes the glow-
worm feel far off something of the rapture of the seraph hosts.  Then
we go out into the living world, and what influences pour through us!
We are "at league with the stones of the field."  The winds of the
world blow radiantly upon us as in the early time.  We feel wrapt
about with love, with an infinite tenderness that caresses us.  Alone
in our rooms as we ponder, what sudden abysses of light open within
us!  The Gods are so much nearer than we dreamed.  We rise up
intoxicated with the thought, and reel out seeking an equal
companionship under the great night and the stars.

Let us get near to realities.  We read too much.  We think of that
which is "the goal, the Comforter, the Lord, the Witness, the resting-
place, the asylum, and the Friend."  Is it by any of these dear and
familiar names?  The soul of the modern mystic is becoming a mere
hoarding-place for uncomely theories.  He creates an uncouth symbolism,
and blinds his soul within with names drawn from the Kabala or ancient
Sanskrit, and makes alien to himself the intimate powers of his spirit,
things which in truth are more his than the beatings of his heart.
Could we not speak of them in our own tongue, and the language of
today will be as sacred as any of the past.  From the Golden One,
the child of the divine, comes a voice to its shadow.  It is stranger
to our world, aloof from our ambitions, with a destiny not here to
be fulfilled.  It says:  "You are of dust while I am robed in
opalescent airs.  You dwell in houses of clay, I in a temple not
made by hands.  I will not go with thee, but thou must come with me."
And not alone is the form of the divine aloof but the spirit behind
the form.  It is called the Goal truly, but it has no ending.  It
is the Comforter, but it waves away our joys and hopes like the
angel with the flaming sword.  Though it is the Resting-place, it
stirs to all heroic strife, to outgoing, to conquest.  It is the
Friend indeed, but it will not yield to our desires.  Is it this
strange, unfathomable self we think to know, and awaken to, by what
is written, or by study of it as so many planes of consciousness?
But in vain we store the upper chambers of the mind with such quaint
furniture of thought.  No archangel makes his abode therein.  They
abide only in the shining.  No wonder that the Gods do not incarnate.
We cannot say we do pay reverence to these awful powers.  We repulse
the living truth by our doubts and reasonings.  We would compel the
Gods to fall in with our petty philosophy rather than trust in the
heavenly guidance.  Ah, to think of it, those dread deities, the
divine Fires, to be so enslaved!  We have not comprehended the
meaning of the voice which cried "Prepare ye the way of the Lord,"
or this, "Lift up your heads, O ye gates.  Be ye lifted up, ye
everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in."  Nothing
that we read is useful unless it calls up living things in the soul.
To read a mystic book truly is to invoke the powers.  If they do
not rise up plumed and radiant, the apparitions of spiritual things,
then is our labor barren.  We only encumber the mind with useless
symbols.  They knew better ways long ago.  "Master of the Green-
waving Planisphere, . . . Lord of the Azure Expanse, . . . it is
thus we invoke," cried the magicians of old.

And us, let us invoke them with joy, let us call upon them with
love, the Light we hail, or the Divine Darkness we worship with
silent breath.  That silence cries aloud to the Gods.  Then they
will approach us.  Then we may learn that speech of many colors,
for they will not speak in our mortal tongue;  they will not answer
to the names of men.  Their names are rainbow glories.  Yet these
are mysteries, and they cannot be reasoned out or argued over.  We
cannot speak truly of them from report, or description, or from
what another has written.  A relation to the thing in itself alone
is our warrant, and this means we must set aside our intellectual
self-sufficiency and await guidance.  It will surely come to those
who wait in trust, a glow, a heat in the heart announcing the
awakening of the Fire.  And, as it blows with its mystic breath
into the brain, there is a hurtling of visions, a brilliance of
lights, a sound as of great waters vibrant and musical in their
flowing, and murmurs from a single yet multitudinous being.  In
such a mood, when the far becomes near, the strange familiar, and
the infinite possible, he wrote from whose words we get the inspiration:

     To launch off with absolute faith, to sweep through the
            ceaseless rings
     and never be quiet again.

Such a faith and such an unrest be ours:  faith which is mistrust
of the visible;  unrest which is full of a hidden surety and reliance.
We, when we fall into pleasant places, rest and dream our strength
away.  Before every enterprise and adventure of the soul we calculate
in fear our power to do.  But remember, "Oh, disciple, in thy work
for thy brother thou hast many allies;  in the winds, in the air,
in all the voices of the silent shore."  These are the far-wandered
powers of our own nature, and they turn again home at our need.  We
came out of the Great Mother-Life for the purposes of soul.  Are
her darlings forgotten where they darkly wander and strive?  Never.
Are not the lives of all her heroes proof?  Though they seem to
stand alone the eternal Mother keeps watch on them, and voices far
away and unknown to them before arise in passionate defense, and
hearts beat warm to help them.  Aye, if we could look within we
would see vast nature stirred on their behalf, and institutions
shaken, until the truth they fight for triumphs, and they pass, and
a wake of glory ever widening behind them trails down the ocean of
the years.

Thus the warrior within us works, or, if we choose to phrase it so,
it is the action of the spiritual will.  Shall we not, then, trust
in it and face the unknown, defiant and fearless of its dangers.
Though we seem to go alone to the high, the lonely, the pure, we
need not despair.  Let no one bring to this task the mood of the
martyr or of one who thinks he sacrifices something.  Yet let all
who will come.  Let them enter the path, facing all things in life
and death with a mood at once gay and reverent, as beseems those
who are immortal--who are children today, but whose hands tomorrow
may grasp the sceptre, sitting down with the Gods as equals and
companions.  "What a man thinks, that he is:  that is the old secret."
In this self-conception lies the secret of life, the way of escape
and return.  We have imagined ourselves into littleness, darkness,
and feebleness.  We must imagine ourselves into greatness.  "If
thou wilt not equal thyself to God thou canst not understand God.
The like is only intelligible by the like."  In some moment of more
complete imagination the thought-born may go forth and look on the
ancient Beauty.  So it was in the mysteries long ago, and may well
be today.  The poor dead shadow was laid to sleep, forgotten in
its darkness, as the fiery power, mounting from heart to head, went
forth in radiance.  Not then did it rest, nor ought we.  The dim
worlds dropped behind it, the lights of earth disappeared as it
neared the heights of the immortals.  There was One seated on a
throne, One dark and bright with ethereal glory.  It arose in greeting.
The radiant figure laid its head against the breast which grew
suddenly golden, and Father and Son vanished in that which has no
place or name.


III.


     Who are exiles?  as for me
          Where beneath the diamond dome
     Lies the light on hills or tree
          There my palace is and home.

We are outcasts from Deity, therefore we defame the place of our exile.
But who is there may set apart his destiny from the earth which bore
him?  I am one of those who would bring back the old reverence for
the Mother, the magic, the love.  I think, metaphysician, you have
gone astray.  You would seek within yourself for the fountain of life.
Yes, there is the true, the only light.  But do not dream it will
lead you farther away from the earth, but rather deeper into its'
heart.  By it you are nourished with those living waters you would
drink.  You are yet in the womb and unborn, and the Mother breathes
for you the diviner airs.  Dart out your farthest ray of thought
to the original, and yet you have not found a new path of your own.
Your ray is still enclosed in the parent ray, and only on the sidereal
streams are you borne to the freedom of the deep, to the sacred stars
whose distance maddens, and to the lonely Light of Lights.

Let us, therefore, accept the conditions and address ourselves with
wonder, with awe, with love, as we well may, to that being in whom
we move.  I abate no jot of those vaster hopes, yet I would pursue
that ardent aspiration, content as to here and today.  I do not
believe in a nature red with tooth and claw.  If indeed she appears
so terrible to any it is because they themselves have armed her.
Again, behind the anger of the Gods there is a love.  Are the rocks
barren?  Lay your brow against them and learn what memories they keep.
Is the brown earth unbeautiful?  Yet lie on the breast of the Mother
and you shall be aureoled with the dews of faery.  The earth is the
entrance to the Halls of Twilight.  What emanations are those that
make radiant the dark woods of pine!  Round every leaf and tree and
over all the mountains wave the fiery tresses of that hidden sun
which is the soul of the earth and parent of your soul.  But we
think of these things no longer.  Like the prodigal we have wandered
far from our home, but no more return.  We idly pass or wait as
strangers in the halls our spirit built.

     Sad or fain no more to live?
          I have pressed the lips of pain
     With the kisses lovers give
          Ransomed ancient powers again.

I would raise this shrinking soul to a universal acceptance.  What!
does it aspire to the All, and yet deny by its revolt and inner test
the justice of Law?  From sorrow we take no less and no more than
from our joys.  If the one reveals to the soul the mode by which
the power overflows and fills it here, the other indicates to it
the unalterable will which checks excess and leads it on to true
proportion and its own ancestral ideal.  Yet men seem for ever to
fly from their destiny of inevitable beauty;  because of delay the
power invites and lures no longer but goes out into the highways
with a hand of iron.  We look back cheerfully enough upon those
old trials out of which we have passed;  but we have gloaned only
an aftermath of wisdom, and missed the full harvest if the will
has not risen royally at the moment in unison with the will of the
Immortal, even though it comes rolled round with terror and suffering
and strikes at the heart of clay.

Through all these things, in doubt, despair, poverty, sick, feeble,
or baffled, we have yet to learn reliance.  "I will not leave thee
or forsake thee" are the words of the most ancient spirit to the
spark wandering in the immensity of its own being.  This high courage
brings with it a vision.  It sees the true intent in all circumstance
out of which its own emerges to meet it.  Before it the blackness
melts into forms of beauty, and back of all illusions is seen the
old enchanter tenderly smiling, the dark, hidden Father enveloping
his children.

All things have their compensations.  For what is absent here there
is always, if we seek, a nobler presence about us.

     Captive, see what stars give light
          In the hidden heart of clay:
     At their radiance dark and bright
          Fades the dreamy King of Day.

We complain of conditions, but this very imperfection it is which
urges us to arise and seek for the Isles of the Immortals.  What
we lack recalls the fullness.  The soul has seen a brighter day
than this and a sun which never sets.  Hence the retrospect:  "Thou
hast been in Eden the garden of God;  every precious stone was thy
covering, the sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx,
the jasper, the sapphire, emerald. . . . Thou wast upon the holy
mountain of God;  thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the
stones of fire."  We would point out these radiant avenues of return;
but sometimes we feel in our hearts that we sound but cockney voices
as guides amid the ancient temples, the cyclopean crypts sanctified
by the mysteries.  To be intelligible we replace the opalescent
shining by the terms of the scientist, and we prate of occult
physiology in the same breath with the Most High.  Yet when the
soul has the divine vision it knows not it has a body.  Let it
remember, and the breath of glory kindles it no more;  it is once
again a captive.  After all it does not make the mysteries clearer
to speak in physical terms and do violence to our intuitions.  If
we ever use these centres, as fires we shall see them, or they shall
well up within us as fountains of potent sound.  We may satisfy
people's mind with a sense correspondence, and their souls may yet
hold aloof.  We shall only inspire by the magic of a superior beauty.
Yet this too has its dangers.  "Thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by
reason of thy brightness," continues the seer.  If we follow too
much the elusive beauty of form we will miss the spirit.  The last
secrets are for those who translate vision into being.  Does the
glory fade away before you?  Say truly in your heart, "I care not.
I will wear the robes I am endowed with today."  You are already
become beautiful, being beyond desire and free.

     Night and day no more eclipse
          Friendly eyes that on us shine,
     Speech from old familiar lips.
          Playmates of a youth divine.

To childhood once again.  We must regain the lost state.  But it
is to the giant and spiritual childhood of the young immortals we
must return, when into their dear and translucent souls first fell
the rays of the father-beings.  The men of old were intimates of
wind and wave and playmates of many a brightness long since forgotten.
The rapture of the fire was their rest;  their out-going was still
consciously through universal being.  By darkened images we may
figure something vaguely akin, as when in rare moments under the
stars the big dreamy heart of childhood is pervaded with quiet and
brimmed full with love.  Dear children of the world, so tired today--
so weary seeking after the light.  Would you recover strength and
immortal vigor?  Not one star alone, your star, shall shed its happy
light upon you, but the All you must adore.  Something intimate,
secret, unspeakable, akin to thee, will emerge silently, insensibly,
and ally itself with thee as thou gatherest thyself from the four
quarters of the earth.  We shall go back to the world of the dawn,
but to a brighter light than that which opened up this wondrous
story of the cycles.  The forms of elder years will reappear in our
vision, the father-beings once again.  So we shall grow at home amid
these grandeurs, and with that All-Presence about us may cry in our
hearts, "At last is our meeting, Immortal.  O starry one, now is
our rest!"

     Come away, oh, come away;
          We will quench the heart's desire
     Past the gateways of the day
          In the rapture of the fire.

1896


THE HERO IN MAN


I.

There sometimes comes on us a mood of strange reverence for people
and things which in less contemplative hours we hold to be unworthy;
and in such moments we may set side by side the head of the Christ
and the head of an outcast, and there is an equal radiance around
each, which makes of the darker face a shadow and is itself a shadow
around the head of light.  We feel a fundamental unity of purpose
in their presence here, and would as willingly pay homage to the
one who has fallen as to him who has become a master of life.  I
know that immemorial order decrees that the laurel crown be given
only to the victor, but in these moments I speak of a profound
intuition changes the decree and sets the aureole on both alike.

We feel such deep pity for the fallen that there must needs be a
justice in it, for these diviner feelings are wiser in themselves
and do not vaguely arise.  They are lights from the Father.  A
justice lies in uttermost pity and forgiveness, even when we seem
to ourselves to be most deeply wronged, or why is it that the
awakening of resentment or hate brings such swift contrition?  We
are ever self-condemned, and the dark thought which went forth in
us brooding revenge, when suddenly smitten by the light, withdraws
and hides within itself in awful penitence.  In asking myself why
is it that the meanest are safe from our condemnation when we sit
on the true seat of judgment in the heart, it seemed to me that
their shield was the sense we have of a nobility hidden in them
under the cover of ignoble things;  that their present darkness
was the result of some too weighty heroic labor undertaken long
ago by the human spirit, that it was the consecration of past
purpose which played with such a tender light about their ruined
lives, and it was more pathetic because this nobleness was all
unknown to the fallen, and the heroic cause of so much pain was
forgotten in life's prison-house.

While feeling the service to us of the great ethical ideal which
have been formulated by men I think that the idea of justice
intellectually conceived tends to beget a certain hardness of heart.
It is true that men have done wrong--hence their pain;  but back
of all this there is something infinitely soothing, a light that
does not wound, which says no harsh thing, even although the darkest
of the spirits turns to it in its agony, for the darkest of human
spirits has still around him this first glory which shines from a
deeper being within, whose history may be told as the legend of
the Hero in Man.

Among the many immortals with whom ancient myth peopled the spiritual
spheres of humanity are some figures which draw to themselves a more
profound tenderness than the rest.  Not Aphrodite rising in beauty
from the faery foam of the first seas, not Apollo with sweetest
singing, laughter, and youth, not the wielder of the lightning could
exact the reverence accorded to the lonely Titan chained on the
mountain, or to that bowed figure heavy with the burden of the sins
of the world;  for the brighter divinities had no part in the labor
of man, no such intimate relation with the wherefore of his own
existence so full of struggle.  The more radiant figures are
prophecies to him of his destiny, but the Titan and the Christ are
a revelation of his more immediate state;  their giant sorrows
companion his own, and in contemplating them he awakens what is
noblest in his own nature;  or, in other words, in understanding
their divine heroism he understands himself.  For this in truth it
seems to me to mean:  all knowledge is a revelation of the self to
the self, and our deepest comprehension of the seemingly apart
divine is also our farthest inroad to self-knowledge;  Prometheus,
Christ, are in every heart;  the story of one is the story of all;
the Titan and the Crucified are humanity.

If, then, we consider them as representing the human spirit and
disentangle from the myths their meaning, we shall find that
whatever reverence is due to that heroic love, which descended
from heaven for the redeeming of a lower nature, must be paid to
every human being.  Christ is incarnate in all humanity.  Prometheus
is bound for ever within us.  They are the same.  They are a host,
and the divine incarnation was not spoken of one, but of all those
who, descending into the lower world, tried to change it into the
divine image, and to wrest out of chaos a kingdom for the empire
of light.  The angels saw below them in chaos a senseless rout
blind with elemental passion, for ever warring with discordant
cries which broke in upon the world of divine beauty;  and that
the pain might depart, they grew rebellious in the Master's peace,
and descending to earth the angelic lights were crucified in men.
They left so radiant worlds, such a light of beauty, for earth's
gray twilight filled with tears, that through this elemental life
might breathe the starry music brought from Him.  If the "Fore-seer"
be a true name for the Titan, it follows that in the host which
he represents was a light which well foreknew all the dark paths
of its journey;  foreseeing the bitter struggle with a hostile
nature, but foreseeing perhaps a gain, a distant glory o'er the
hills of sorrow, and that chaos, divine and transformed, with only
gentle breathing, lit up by the Christ-soul of the universe.  There
is a transforming power in the thought itself:  we can no longer
condemn the fallen, they who laid aside their thrones of ancient
power, their spirit ecstasy and beauty on such a mission.  Perhaps
those who sank lowest did so to raise a greater burden, and of
these most fallen it may in the hour of their resurrection be said,
"The last shall be first."

So, placing side by side the head of the outcast with the head of
Christ, it has this equal beauty--with as bright a glory it sped
from the Father in ages past on its redeeming labor.  Of his present
darkness what shall we say?  "He is altogether dead in sin?"  Nay,
rather with tenderness forbear, and think the foreseeing spirit
has taken its own dread path to mastery;  that that which foresaw
the sorrow foresaw also beyond it a greater joy and a mightier
existence, when it would rise again in a new robe, woven out of
the treasure hidden in the deep of its submergence, and shine at
last like the stars of the morning, and live among the Sons of God.


II.

Our deepest life is when we are alone.  We think most truly, love
best, when isolated from the outer world in that mystic abyss we
call soul.  Nothing external can equal the fullness of these moments.
We may sit in the blue twilight with a friend, or bend together by
the hearth, half whispering or in a silence populous with loving
thoughts mutually understood;  then we may feel happy and at peace,
but it is only because we are lulled by a semblance to deeper
intimacies.  When we think of a friend and the loved one draws nigh,
we sometimes feel half-pained, for we touched something in our
solitude which the living presence shut out;  we seem more apart,
and would fain wave them away and cry, "Call me not forth from this;
I am no more a spirit if I leave my throne."  But these moods, though
lit up by intuitions of the true, are too partial, they belong too
much to the twilight of the heart, they have too dreamy a temper
to serve us well in life.  We would wish rather for our thoughts
a directness such as belongs to the messengers of the gods, swift,
beautiful, flashing presences bent on purposes well understood.

What we need is that this interior tenderness shall be elevated
into seership, that what in most is only yearning or blind love
shall see clearly its way and hope.  To this end we have to observe
more intently the nature of the interior life.  We find, indeed,
that it is not a solitude at all, but dense with multitudinous being:
instead of being alone we are in the thronged highways of existence.
For our guidance when entering here many words of warning have been
uttered, laws have been outlined, and beings full of wonder, terror,
and beauty described.  Yet there is a spirit in us deeper than our
intellectual being which I think of as the Hero in man, who feels
the nobility of its place in the midst of all this, and who would
fain equal the greatness of perception with deeds as great.  The
weariness and sense of futility which often falls upon the mystic
after much thought is due to this, that he has not recognized that
he must be worker as well as seer, that here he has duties demanding
a more sustained endurance, just as the inner life is so much vaster
and more intense than the life he has left behind.

Now the duties which can be taken up by the soul are exactly those
which it feels most inadequate to perform when acting as an embodied
being.  What shall be done to quiet the heart-cry of the world:  how
answer the dumb appeal for help we so often divine below eyes that
laugh?  It is the saddest of all sorrows to think that pity with no
hands to heal, that love without a voice to speak should helplessly
heap their pain upon pain while earth shall endure.  But there is a
truth about sorrow which I think may make it seem not so hopeless.
There are fewer barriers than we think:  there is, in truth, an
inner alliance between the soul who would fain give and the soul
who is in need.  Nature has well provided that not one golden ray
of all our thoughts is sped ineffective through the dark;  not one
drop of the magical elixirs love distils is wasted.  Let us consider
how this may be.  There is a habit we nearly all have indulged in.
We weave little stories in our minds, expending love and pity upon
the imaginary beings we have created, and I have been led to think
that many of these are not imaginary, that somewhere in the world
beings are living just in that way, and we merely reform and live
over again in our life the story of another life.  Sometimes these
far-away intimates assume so vivid a shape, they come so near with
their appeal for sympathy that the pictures are unforgettable;  and
the more I ponder over them the more it seems to me that they often
convey the actual need of some soul whose cry for comfort has gone
out into the vast, perhaps to meet with an answer, perhaps to hear
only silence.  I will supply an instance.  I see a child, a curious,
delicate little thing, seated on the doorstep of a house.  It is
an alley in some great city, and there is a gloom of evening and
vapor over the sky.  I see the child is bending over the path;  he
is picking cinders and arranging them, and as I ponder I become
aware that he is laying down in gritty lines the walls of a house,
the mansion of his dream.  Here spread along the pavement are large
rooms, these for his friends, and a tiny room in the centre, that
is his own.  So his thought plays.  Just then I catch a glimpse of
the corduroy trousers of a passing workman, and a heavy boot crushes
through the cinders.  I feel the pain in the child's heart as he
shrinks back, his little lovelit house of dreams all rudely shattered.
Ah, poor child, building the City Beautiful out of a few cinders,
yet nigher, truer in intent than many a stately, gold-rich palace
reared by princes, thou wert not forgotten by that mighty spirit
who lives through the falling of empires, whose home has been in
many a ruined heart.  Surely it was to bring comfort to hearts like
thine that that most noble of all meditations was ordained by the
Buddha.  "He lets his mind pervade one quarter of the world with
thoughts of Love, and so the second, and so the third, and so the
fourth.  And thus the whole wide world, above, below, around, and
everywhere does he continue to pervade with heart of Love far-reaching,
grown great and beyond measure."

That love, though the very faery breath of life, should by itself,
and so imparted have a sustaining power some may question, not
those who have felt the sunlight fall from distant friends who
think of them;  but, to make clearer how it seems to me to act, I
say that love, Eros, is a being.  It is more than a power of the
soul, though it is that also;  it has a universal life of its own,
and just as the dark heaving waters do not know what jewel lights
they reflect with blinding radiance, so the soul, partially absorbing
and feeling the ray of Eros within it, does not know that often a
part of its nature nearer to the sun of love shines with a brilliant
light to other eyes than its own.  Many people move unconscious of
their own charm, unknowing of the beauty and power they seem to
others to impart.  It is some past attainment of the soul, a jewel
won in some old battle which it may have forgotten, but none the
less this gleams on its tiara, and the star-flame inspires others
to hope and victory.

If it is true here that many exert a spiritual influence they are
unconscious of, it is still truer of the spheres within.  Once the
soul has attained to any possession like love, or persistent will,
or faith, or a power of thought, it comes into spiritual contact
with others who are struggling for these very powers.  The attainment
of any of these means that the soul is able to absorb and radiate
some of the diviner elements of being.  The soul may or may nor be
aware of the position it is placed in or its new duties, but yet
that Living Light, having found a way into the being of any one person,
does not rest there, but sends its rays and extends its influence on
and on to illume the darkness of another nature.  So it comes that
there are ties which bind us to people other than those whom we meet
in our everyday life.  I think they are most real ties, most important
to understand, for if we let our lamp go out some far away who had
reached out in the dark and felt a steady will, a persistent hope,
a compassionate love, may reach out once again in an hour of need,
and finding no support may give way and fold the hands in despair.
Often we allow gloom to overcome us and so hinder the bright rays
in their passage;  but would we do it so often if we thought that
perhaps a sadness which besets us, we do not know why, was caused
by some one drawing nigh to us for comfort, whom our lethargy might
make feel still more his helplessnes, while our courage, our faith
might cause "our light to shine in some other heart which as yet has
no light of its own"?


III.


The night was wet, and as I was moving down the streets my mind was
also journeying on a way of its own, and the things which were bodily
present before me were no less with me in my unseen traveling.  Every
now and then a transfer would take place, and some of the moving
shadows in the street would begin walking about in the clear interior
light.  The children of the city, crouched in the doorways or racing
through the hurrying multitude and flashing lights, began their elfin
play again in my heart;  and that was because I had heard these tiny
outcasts shouting with glee.  I wondered if the glitter and shadow
of such sordid things were thronged with magnificence and mystery
for those who were unaware of a greater light and deeper shade which
made up the romance and fascination of my own life.  In imagination
I narrowed myself to their ignorance, littleness, and youth, and
seemed for a moment to flit amid great uncomprehended beings and a
dim wonderful city of palaces.

Then another transfer took place, and I was pondering anew, for a
face I had seen flickering through the warm wet mist haunted me;
it entered into the realm of the interpreter, and I was made aware
by the pale cheeks and by the close-shut lips of pain, and by some
inward knowledge, that there the Tree of Life was beginning to grow,
and I wondered why it is that it always springs up through a heart
in ashes;  I wondered also if that which springs up, which in itself
is an immortal joy, has knowledge that its shoots are piercing
through such anguish;  or, again, if it was the piercing of the
shoots which caused the pain, and if every throb of the beautiful
flame darting upward to blossom meant the perishing of some more
earthly growth which had kept the heart in shadow.

Seeing, too, how many thoughts spring up from such a simple thing,
I questioned whether that which started the impulse had any share
in the outcome, and if these musings of mine in any way affected
their subject.  I then began thinking about those secret ties on
which I have speculated before, and in the darkness my heart grew
suddenly warm and glowing, for I had chanced upon one of these
shining imaginations which are the wealth of those who travel upon
the hidden ways.  In describing that which comes to us all at once,
there is a difficulty in choosing between what is first and what
is last to say;  but, interpreting as best I can, I seemed to behold
the onward movement of a Light, one among many lights, all living,
throbbing, now dim with perturbations and now again clear, and all
subtly woven together, outwardly in some more shadowy shining, and
inwardly in a greater fire, which, though it was invisible, I knew
to be the Lamp of the World.  This Light which I beheld I felt to
be a human soul, and these perturbations which dimmed it were its
struggles and passionate longings for something, and that was for
a more brilliant shining of the light within itself.  It was in
love with its own beauty, enraptured by its own lucidity;  and I
saw that as these things were more beloved they grew paler, for
this light is the light which the Mighty Mother has in her heart
for her children, and she means that it shall go through each one
unto all, and whoever restrains it in himself is himself shut out;
not that the great heart has ceased in its love for that soul, but
that the soul has shut itself off from influx, for every imagination
of man is the opening or the closing of a door to the divine world;
now he is solitary, cut off, and, seemingly to himself, on the desert
and distant verge of things;  and then his thought throws open the
shut portals, he hears the chant of the seraphs in his heart, and
he is made luminous by the lighting of a sudden aureole.  This soul
which I watched seemed to have learned at last the secret love;  for,
in the anguish begotten by its loss, it followed the departing glory
in penitence to the inmost shrine, where it ceased altogether;  and
because it seemed utterly lost and hopeless of attainment and
capriciously denied to the seeker, a profound pity arose in the
soul for those who, like it, were seeking, but still in hope, for
they had not come to the vain end of their endeavors.  I understood
that such pity is the last of the precious essences which make up
the elixir of immortality, and when it is poured into the cup it
is ready for drinking.  And so it was with this soul which grew
brilliant with the passage of the eternal light through its new
purity of self-oblivion, and joyful in the comprehension of the
mystery of the secret love, which, though it has been declared many
times by the greatest of teachers among men, is yet never known
truly unless the Mighty Mother has herself breathed it in the heart.

And now that the soul has divined this secret, the shadowy shining
which was woven in bonds of union between it and its fellow lights
grew clearer;  and a multitude of these strands were, so it seemed,
strengthened and placed in its keeping:  along these it was to send
the message of the wisdom and the love which were the secret sweetness
of its own being.  Then a spiritual tragedy began, infinitely more
pathetic than the old desolation, because it was brought about by
the very nobility of the spirit.  This soul, shedding its love like
rays of glory, seemed itself the centre of a ring of wounding spears:
it sent forth love, and the arrowy response came hate-impelled:  it
whispered peace, and was answered by the clash of rebellion:  and
to all this for defense it could only bare more openly its heart
that a profounder love from the Mother Nature might pass through
upon the rest.  I knew this was what a teacher, who wrote long ago,
meant when he said:  "Put on the whole armor of God," which is love
and endurance, for the truly divine children of the Flame are not
armed otherwise:  and of those protests set up in ignorance or
rebellion against the whisper of the wisdom, I saw that some melted
in the fierce and tender heat of the heart, and there came in their
stead a golden response, which made closer the ties, and drew these
souls upward to an understanding and to share in the overshadowing
nature.  And this is part of the plan of the Great Alchemist, whereby
the red ruby of the heart is transmuted into the tender light of
the opal;  for the beholding of love made bare acts like the flame
of the furnace:  and the dissolving passions, through an anguish
of remorse, the lightnings of pain, and through an adoring pity
are changed into the image they contemplate, and melt in the ecstasy
of self-forgetful love, the spirit which lit the thorn-crowned brows
which perceived only in its last agony the retribution due to its
tormentors, and cried out, "Father, forgive them, for they know not
what they do."

Now, although the love of the few may alleviate the hurt due to
the ignorance of the mass, it is not in the power of any one to
withstand for ever this warfare;  for by the perpetual wounding
of the inner nature it is so wearied that the spirit must withdraw
from a tabernacle grown too frail to support the increase of light
within and the jarring of the demoniac nature without;  and at
length comes the call which means, for a while, release and a deep
rest in regions beyond the paradise of lesser souls.  So, withdrawn
into the divine darkness, vanished the light of my dream.  And now
it seemed as if this wonderful weft of souls intertwining as one
being must come to naught;  and all those who through the gloom had
nourished a longing for the light would stretch out hands in vain
for guidance;  but that I did not understand the love of the Mother,
and that, although few, there is no decaying of her heroic brood;
for, as the seer of old caught at the mantle of him who went up in
the fiery chariot, so another took up the burden and gathered the
shining strands together:  and of this sequence of spiritual guides
there is no ending.

Here I may say that the love of the Mother, which, acting through
the burnished will of the hero, is wrought to its highest uses, is
in reality everywhere, and pervades with profoundest tenderness the
homeliest circumstance of daily life, and there is not lacking,
even among the humblest, an understanding of the spiritual tragedy
which follows upon every effort of the divine nature, bowing itself
down in pity to our shadowy sphere, an understanding where the nature
of the love is gauged through the extent of the sacrifice and the
pain which is overcome.  I recall the instance of an old Irish
peasant, who, as he lay in hospital wakeful from a grinding pain
in the leg, forgot himself in making drawings, rude, yet reverently
done, of incidents in the life of the Galilean Teacher.  One of
these which he showed me was a crucifixion, where, amidst much
grotesque symbolism, were some tracings which indicated a purely
beautiful intuition;  the heart of this crucified figure, no less
than the brow, was wreathed about with thorns and radiant with light:
"For that," said he, "was where he really suffered."  When I think
of this old man, bringing forgetfulness of his own bodily pain
through contemplation of the spiritual suffering of his Master, my
memory of him shines with something of the transcendent light he
himself perceived, for I feel that some suffering of his own, nobly
undergone, had given him understanding, and he had laid his heart
in love against the Heart of Many Sorrows, seeing it wounded by
unnumbered spears, yet burning with undying love.

Though much may be learned by observance of the superficial life
and actions of a spiritual teacher, it is only in the deeper life
of meditation and imagination that it can be truly realized;  for
the soul is a midnight blossom which opens its leaves in dream,
and its perfect bloom is unfolded only where another sun shines
in another heaven;  there it feels what celestial dews descend on
it and what influences draw it up to its divine archetype.  Here
in the shadow of earth root intercoils with root, and the finer
distinctions of the blossom are not perceived.  If we knew also
who they really are, who sometimes in silence and sometimes with
the eyes of the world at gaze take upon them the mantle of teacher,
an unutterable awe would prevail, for underneath a bodily presence
not in any sense beautiful may burn the glory of some ancient
divinity, some hero who has laid aside his sceptre in the enchanted
land, to rescue old-time comrades fallen into oblivion;  or, again,
if we had the insight of the simple old peasant into the nature
of his enduring love, out of the exquisite and poignant emotions
kindled would arise the flame of a passionate love, which would
endure long aeons of anguish that it might shield, though but for
a little, the kingly hearts who may not shield themselves.

But I, too, who write, have launched the rebellious spear, or in
lethargy have oft times gone down the great drift numbering myself
among those who, not being with must needs be against.  Therefore
I make no appeal:  they only may call who stand upon the lofty
mountains;  but I reveal the thought which arose like a star in
my soul with such bright and pathetic meaning, leaving it to you
who read to approve and apply it.

1897


THE MEDITATION OF ANANDA


Ananda rose from his seat under the banyan tree.  He passed his hand
unsteadily over his brow.  Throughout the day the young ascetic had
been plunged in profound meditation;  and now, returning from heaven
to earth, he was bewildered like one who awakens in darkness and
knows not where he is.  All day long before his inner eye burned
the light of the Lokas, until he was wearied and exhausted with
their splendors;  space glowed like a diamond with intolerable lustre,
and there was no end to the dazzling procession of figures.  He had
seen the fiery dreams of the dead in heaven.  He had been tormented
by the music of celestial singers, whose choral song reflected in
its ripples the rhythmic pulse of being.  He saw how these orbs were
held within luminous orbs of wider circuit;  and vaste and vaster
grew the vistas, until at last, a mere speck of life, he bore the
burden of innumerable worlds.  Seeking for Brahma, he found only
the great illusion as infinite as Brahma's being.

If these things were shadows, the earth and the forests he returned
to, viewed at evening, seemed still more unreal, the mere dusky
flutter of a moth's wings in space, so filmy and evanescent that
if he had sunk as through transparent aether into the void, it would
not have been wonderful.

Ananda, still half entranced, turned homeward.  As he threaded the
dim alleys he noticed not the flaming eyes which regarded him from
the gloom; the serpents rustling amid the undergrowth;  the lizards,
fireflies, insects, and the innumerable lives of which the Indian
forest was rumorous;  they also were but shadows.  He paused near
the village hearing the sound of human voices, of children at play.
He felt a pity for these tiny beings, who struggled and shouted,
rolling over each other in ecstasies of joy.  The great illusion
had indeed devoured them, before whose spirits the Devas themselves
once were worshippers.  Then, close beside him, he heard a voice,
whose low tone of reverence soothed him;  it was akin to his own
nature, and it awakened him fully.  A little crowd of five or six
people were listening silently to an old man who read from a palm-
leaf manuscript.  Ananda knew, by the orange-colored robes of the
old man that here was a brother of the new faith, and he paused
with the others.  What was his illusion?  The old man lifted his
head for a moment as the ascetic came closer, and then continued
as before.  He was reading "The Legend of the Great King of Glory,"
and Ananda listened while the story was told of the Wonderful Wheel,
the Elephant Treasure, the Lake and Palace of Righteousness, and
of the meditation, how the Great King of Glory entered the golden
chamber, and set himself down on the silver couch, and he let his
mind pervade one quarter of the world with thoughts of love;  and
so the second quarter, and so the third, and so the fourth.  And
thus the whole wide world, above, below, around, and everywhere,
did he continue to pervade with heart of Love, far reaching, grown
great, and beyond measure.

When the old man had ended Ananda went back into the forest.  He
had found the secret of the true, how the Vision could be left
behind and the Being entered.  Another legend rose in his mind, a
faery legend of righteousness expanding and filling the universe,
a vision beautiful and full of old enchantment, and his heart sang
within him.  He seated himself again under the banyan tree.  He
rose up in soul.  He saw before him images long forgotten of those
who suffer in the sorrowful earth.  He saw the desolation and
loneliness of old age, the insults of the captive, the misery of
the leper and outcast, the chill horror and darkness of life in a
dungeon.  He drank in all their sorrow.  From his heart he went
out to them.  Love, a fierce and tender flame, arose;  pity, a
breath from the vast;  sympathy, born of unity.  This triple fire
sent forth its rays;  they surrounded those dark souls;  they
pervaded them;  they beat down oppression.
-------------

While Ananda, with spiritual magic, sent forth the healing powers
through the four quarters of the world, far away at that moment a
king sat enthroned in his hall.  A captive was bound before him--
bound, but proud, defiant, unconquerable of soul.  There was silence
in the hall until the king spake the doom and torture for this
ancient enemy.

The king spake:  "I had thought to do some fierce thing to thee
and so end thy days, my enemy.  But I remember now, with sorrow,
the great wrongs we have done to each other, and the hearts made
sore by our hatred.  I shall do no more wrong to thee;  thou art
free to depart.  Do what thou wilt.  I will make restitution to
thee as far as may be for thy ruined state."

Then the soul which no might could conquer was conquered utterly--
the knees of the captive were bowed and his pride was overcome.  "My
brother," he said, and could say no more.
-------------

To watch for years a little narrow slit high up in a dark cell, so
high that he could not reach up and look out, and there to see daily
the change from blue to dark in the sky, had withered a prisoner's
soul.  The bitter tears came no more, hardly even sorrow, only a
dull, dead feeling.  But that day a great groan burst from him.  He
heard outside the laugh of a child who was playing and gathering
flowers under the high, gray walls.  Then it all came over him--the
divine things missed, the light, the glory, and the beauty that the
earth puts forth for her children.  The arrow slit was darkened,
and half of a little bronze face appeared.

"Who are you down there in the darkness who sigh so?  Are you all
alone there?  For so many years!  Ah, poor man!  I would come down
to you if I could, but I will sit here and talk to you for a while.
Here are flowers for you," and a little arm showered them in by
handfuls until the room was full of the intoxicating fragrance of
summer.  Day after day the child came, and the dull heart entered
once more into the great human love.
--------------

At twilight, by a deep and wide river, an old woman sat alone,
dreamy and full of memories.  The lights of the swift passing boats
and the light of the stars were just as in childhood and the old
love-time.  Old, feeble, it was time for her to hurry away from
the place which changed not with her sorrow.

"Do you see our old neighbor there?" said Ayesha to her lover.  "They
say she was once as beautiful as you would make me think I now am.
How lonely she must be!  Let us come near and speak to her," and the
lover went gladly.  Though they spoke to each other rather than to
her, yet something of the past, which never dies when love, the
immortal, has pervaded it, rose up again as she heard their voices.
She smiled, thinking of years of burning beauty.
--------------

A teacher, accompanied by his disciples, was passing by the wayside
where a leper sat.

The teacher said:  "Here is our brother, whom we may not touch, but
he need not be shut out from truth.  We may sit down where he can listen."

He sat on the wayside near the leper, and his disciples stood around
him.  He spoke words full of love, kindliness, and pity--the eternal
truths which make the soul grow full of sweetness and youth.  A small,
old spot began to glow in the heart of the leper, and the tears ran
down his blighted face.
--------------

All these were the deeds of Ananda the ascetic, and the Watcher who
was over him from all eternity made a great stride towards that soul.

1893


THE MIDNIGHT BLOSSOM


"Arhans are born at midnight hour, together with the holy flower
that opes and blossoms in darkness."
                          --From an Eastern Scripture.

We stood together at the door of our hut.  We could see through the
gathering gloom where our sheep and goats were cropping the sweet
grass on the side of the hill.  We were full of drowsy content as
they were.  We had naught to mar our happiness, neither memory nor
unrest for the future.  We lingered on while the vast twilight
encircled us;  we were one with its dewy stillness.  The lustre of
the early stars first broke in upon our dreaming:  we looked up
and around.  The yellow constellations began to sing their choral
hymn together.  As the night deepened they came out swiftly from
their hiding-places in depths of still and unfathomable blue--they
hung in burning clusters, they advanced in multitudes that dazzled.
The shadowy shining of night was strewn all over with nebulous dust
of silver, with long mists of gold, with jewels of glittering green.
We felt how fit a place the earth was to live on with these nightly
glories over us, with silence and coolness upon our lawns and lakes
after the consuming day.  Valmika, Kedar, Ananda, and I watched
together.  Through the rich gloom we could see far distant forests
and lights, the lights of village and city in King Suddhodana's realm.

"Brothers," said Valmika, "how good it is to be here and not yonder
in the city, where they know not peace, even in sleep."

"Yonder and yonder," said Kedar I saw the inner air full of a red
glow where they were busy in toiling and strife.  It seemed to reach
up to me.  I could not breathe.  I climbed the hill at dawn to laugh
where the snows were, and the sun is as white as they are white."

"But, brothers, if we went down among them and told them how happy
we were, and how the flower's grow on the hillside, they would surely
come up and leave all sorrow.  They cannot know or they would come."
Ananda was a mere child, though so tall for his years.

"They would not come," said Kedar;  "all their joy is to haggle and
hoard.  When Siva blows upon them with angry breath they will lament,
or when the demons in fierce hunger devour them."

"It is good to be here," repeated Valmika, drowsily, "to mind the
flocks and be at rest, and to hear the wise Varunna speak when he
comes among us."

I was silent.  I knew better than they that busy city which glowed
beyond the dark forests.  I had lived there until, grown sick and
weary, I had gone back to my brothers on the hillside.  I wondered,
would life, indeed, go on ceaselessly until it ended in the pain
of the world.  I said within myself:  "O mighty Brahma, on the
outermost verges of thy dream are our lives.  Thou old invisible,
how faintly through our hearts comes the sound of thy song, the
light of thy glory!"  Full of yearning to rise and return, I strove
to hear in my heart the music Anahata, spoken of in our sacred
scrolls.  There was silence and then I thought I heard sounds, not
glad, a myriad murmur.  As I listened they deepened--they grew into
passionate prayer and appeal and tears, as if the cry of the long-
forgotten souls of men went echoing through empty chambers.  My eyes
filled with tears, for it seemed world-wide and to sigh from out
many ages, long agone, to be and yet to be.

"Ananda!  Ananda!  Where is the boy running to?" cried Valmika.
Ananda had vanished in the gloom.  We heard his glad laugh below,
and then another voice speaking.  The tall figure of Varunna loomed
up presently.  Ananda held his hand, and danced beside him.  We
knew the Yogi, and bowed reverently before him.  We could see by
the starlight his simple robe of white.  I could trace clearly every
feature of the grave and beautiful face and radiant eyes.  I saw not
by the starlight, but by a silvery radiance which rayed a little way
into the blackness around the dark hair and face.  Valmika, as elder,
first spoke:

"Holy sir, be welcome. Will you come in and rest?"

"I cannot stay now.  I must pass over the mountains ere dawn;  but
you may come a little way with me--such of you as will."

We assented gladly, Kedar and I, Valmika remained.  Then Ananda
prayed to go.  We bade him stay, fearing for him the labor of
climbing and the chill of the snows.  But Varunna said:  "Let the
child come.  He is hardy, and will not tire if he holds my hand."

So we set out together, and faced the highlands that rose and rose
above us.  We knew the way well, even at night.  We waited in
silence for Varunna to speak;  but for nigh an hour we mounted
without words, save for Ananda's shouts of delight and wonder at
the heavens spread above valleys that lay behind us.  Then I grew
hungry for an answer to my thoughts, and I spake:

"Master, Valmika was saying, ere you came, how good it was to be
here rather than in the city, where they are full of strife.  And
Kedar thought their lives would flow on into fiery pain, and no
speech would avail.  Ananda, speaking as a child, indeed, said if
one went down among they would listen to his story of the happy life.
But, Master, do not many speak and interpret the sacred writings,
and how few are they who lay to heart the words of the gods!  They
seem, indeed, to go on through desire into pain, and even here upon
the hills we are not free, for Kedar felt the hot glow of their
passion, and I heard in my heart their sobs of despair.  Master,
it was terrible, for they seemed to come from the wide earth over,
and out of ages far away.

 "In the child's words is the truth," said Varunna, "for it is
better to aid even in sorrow than to withdraw from pain to a happy
solitude. Yet only the knowers of Brahma can interpret the sacred
writings truly, and it is well to be free ere we speak of freedom.
Then we have power and many hearken."

"But who would leave joy for sorrow?  And who, being one with Brahma,
would return to give counsel?"

"Brother," said Varunna,  "here is the hope of the world.  Though
many seek only for the eternal joy, yet the cry you heard has been
heard by great ones who have turned backwards, called by these
beseeching voices.  The small old path stretching far away leads
through many wonderful beings to the place of Brahma.  There is
the first fountain, the world of beautiful silence, the light which
has been undimmed since the beginning of time.  But turning backwards
from the gate the small old path winds away into the world of men,
and it enters every sorrowful heart.  This is the way the great
ones go.  They turn with the path from the door of Brahma.  They
move along its myriad ways, and overcome pain with compassion.  After
many conquered worlds, after many races of purified and uplifted men,
they go to a greater than Brahma.  In these, though few,  is the
hope of the world.  These are the heroes for whose returning the
earth puts forth her signal fires, and the Devas sing their hymns
of welcome."

We paused where the plateau widened out.  There was scarce a ripple
in the chill air.  In quietness the snows glistened, a light reflected
from the crores of stars that swung with glittering motion above us.
We could hear the immense heart-beat of the world in the stillness.
We had thoughts that went ranging through the heavens, not sad, but
full of solemn hope.

"Brothers!  Master!  look!  The wonderful thing!  And another, and
yet another!" we heard Ananda calling.  We looked and saw the holy
blossom, the midnight flower.  Oh, may the earth again put forth
such beauty.  It grew up from the snows with leaves of delicate
crystal.  A nimbus encircled each radiant bloom, a halo pale yet
lustrous.  I bowed over it in awe;  and I heard Varunna say, "The
earth indeed puts forth her signal fires, and the Devas sing their
hymn.  Listen!"  We heard a music as of beautiful thoughts moving
along the high places of the earth, full of infinite love and hope
and yearning.

"Be glad now, for one is born who has chosen the greater way.  Kedar,
Narayan, Ananda, farewell!  Nay, no farther.  It is a long way to
return, and the child will tire."

He went on and passed from our sight.  But we did not return.  We
remained long, long in silence, looking at the sacred flower.
-------------

Vow, taken long ago, be strong in our hearts today.  Here, where
the pain is fiercer, to rest is more sweet.  Here, where beauty
dies away, it is more joy to be lulled in dream.  Here, the good,
the true, our hope seem but a madness born of ancient pain.  Out
of rest, dream, or despair may we arise, and go the way the great
ones go.

1894


THE CHILDHOOD OF APOLLO


It was long ago, so long that only the spirit of earth remembers
truly.  The old shepherd Admetus sat before the door of his hut
waiting for his grandson to return.  He watched with drowsy eyes
the eve gather, and the woods and mountains grow dark over the
isles--the isles of ancient Greece.  It was Greece before its day
of beauty, and day was never lovelier.  The cloudy blossoms of smoke,
curling upward from the valley, sparkled a while high up in the
sunlit air, a vague memorial of the world of men below.  From that,
too, the color vanished, and those other lights began to shine which
to some are the only lights of day.  The skies dropped close upon
the mountains and the silver seas like a vast face brooding with
intentness.  There was enchantment, mystery, and a living motion
in its depths, the presence of all-pervading Zeus enfolding his
starry children with the dark radiance of aether.

"Ah!" murmured the old man, looking upward, "once it was living;
once it spoke to me.  It speaks not now;  but it speaks to others
I know--to the child who looks and longs and trembles in the dewy
night.  Why does he linger now?  He is beyond his hour.  Ah, there
now are his footsteps!"

A boy came up the valley driving the gray flocks which tumbled
before him in the darkness.  He lifted his young face for the
shepherd to kiss.  It was alight with ecstasy.  Admetus looked at
him with wonder.  A golden and silvery light rayed all about the
child, so that his delicate ethereal beauty seemed set in a star
which followed his dancing footsteps.

"How bright your eyes!" the old man said, faltering with sudden awe.
"Why do your limbs shine with moonfire light?"

"Oh, father," said the boy Apollo, "I am glad, for everything is
living tonight.  The evening is all a voice and many voices.  While
the flocks were browsing night gathered about me.  I saw within it
and it was everywhere living.

"The wind with dim-blown tresses, odor, incense, and secret falling
dew, mingled in one warm breath.  They whispered to me and called
me 'Child of the Stars,' 'Dew Heart,' and 'Soul of Light.'  Oh,
father, as I came up the valley the voices followed me with song.
Everything murmured love.  Even the daffodils, nodding in the olive
gloom, grew golden at my feet, and a flower within my heart knew
of the still sweet secret of the flowers.  Listen, listen!"

There were voices in the night, voices as of star-rays descending.

     Now the roof-tree of the midnight spreading
          Buds in citron, green, and blue:
     From afar its mystic odors shedding,
          Child, on you.

Then other sweet speakers from beneath the earth, and from the
distant waters and air, followed in benediction, and a last voice
like a murmur from universal nature:

     Now the buried stars beneath the mountains
          And the vales their life renew,
     Jetting rainbow blooms from tiny fountains,
          Child, for you.

     As within our quiet waters passing
          Sun and moon and stars we view,
     So the loveliness of life is glassing,
          Child, in you.

     In the diamond air the sun-star glowing
          Up its feathered radiance threw;
     All the jewel glory there was flowing,
          Child, for you.

     And the fire divine in all things burning
          Yearns for home and rest anew,
     From its wanderings far again returning,
          Child, to you.

"Oh, voices, voices," cried the child, "what you say I know not,
but I give back love for love.  Father, what is it they tell me?
They enfold me in light, and I am far away even though I hold
your hand."

"The gods are about us.  Heaven mingles with the earth," said Admetus,
trembling.  "Let us go to Diotima.  She has grown wise brooding for
many a year where the great caves lead to the underworld.  She sees
the bright ones as they pass by, though she sits with shut eyes,
her drowsy lips murmuring as nature's self."

That night the island seemed no more earth set in sea, but a music
encircled by the silence.  The trees, long rooted in antique slumber,
were throbbing with rich life;  through glimmering bark and drooping
leaf a light fell on the old man and boy as they passed, and vague
figures nodded at them.  These were the hamadryad souls of the wood.
They were bathed in tender colors and shimmering lights draping
them from root to leaf.  A murmur came from the heart of every one,
a low enchantment breathing joy and peace.  It grew and swelled
until at last it seemed as if through a myriad pipes Pan the earth
spirit was fluting his magical creative song.

They found the cave of Diotima covered by vines and tangled trailers
at the end of the island where the dark-green woodland rose up from
the waters.  Admetus paused, for he dreaded this mystic prophetess;
but a voice from within called them:

"Come, child of light:  come in, old shepherd, I know why you seek me!"

They entered, Admetus trembling with more fear than before.  A fire
was blazing in a recess of the cavern, and by it sat a majestic
figure robed in purple.  She was bent forward, her hand supporting
her face, her burning eyes turned on the intruders.

"Come hither, child," she said, taking the boy by the hands and
gazing into his face.  "So this pale form is to be the home of
the god.  The gods Choose wisely.  They take no wild warrior, no
mighty hero to be their messenger, but crown this gentle head.
Tell me, have you ever seen a light from the sun falling on you
in your slumber?  No, but look now.  Look upward."

As she spoke she waved her hands over him, and the cavern with its
dusky roof seemed to melt away, and beyond the heavens the heaven
of heavens lay dark in pure tranquility, in a quiet which was the
very hush of being.  In an instant it vanished, and over the zenith
broke a wonderful light.

"See now," cried Diotima, "the Ancient Beauty!  Look how its petals
expand, and what comes forth from its heart!"  A vast and glowing
breath, mutable and opalescent, spread itself between heaven and
earth, and out of it slowly descended a radiant form like a god's.
It drew nigh, radiating lights, pure, beautiful, and star-like.  It
stood for a moment by the child and placed its hand on his head,
and then it was gone.  The old shepherd fell upon his face in awe,
while the boy stood breathless and entranced.

"Go now," said the Sybil, "I can teach thee naught.  Nature herself
will adore you, and sing through you her loveliest song.  But, ah,
the light you hail in joy you shall impart in tears.  So from age
to age the eternal Beauty bows itself down amid sorrows, that the
children of men may not forget it, that their anguish may be
transformed, smitten through by its fire."


THE MASK OF APOLLO


A tradition rises within me of quiet, unarmored years, ages before
the demigods and heroes toiled at the making of Greece, long ages
before the building of the temples and sparkling palaces of her
day of glory.  The land was pastoral, and over all the woods hung
a stillness as of dawn and of unawakened beauty deep breathing in
rest.  Here and there little villages sent up their smoke and a
dreamy people moved about.  They grew up, toiled a little at their
fields, followed their sheep and goats, wedded, and gray age overtook
them, but they never ceased to be children.  They worshipped the gods
in little wooden temples, with ancient rites forgotten in later years.

Near one of these shrines lived a priest--an old man--who was held
in reverence by all for his simple and kindly nature.  To him,
sitting one summer evening before his hut, came a stranger whom
he invited to share his meal.  The stranger seated himself and
began to tell the priest many wonderful things--stories of the
magic of the sun and of the bright beings who move at the gateways
of the day.  The old man grew drowsy in the warm sunlight and fell
asleep.  Then the stranger,  who was Apollo, arose, and in the guise
of the priest entered the little temple, and the people came in
unto him one after the other.

First came Agathon, the husbandman, who said:  "Father, as I bend
over the fields or fasten up the vines I sometimes remember that
you said the gods can be worshipped by doing these things as by
sacrifice.  How is it, father, that the pouring of cold water over
roots or training up the vines can nourish Zeus?  How can the
sacrifice appear before his throne when it is not carried up in
the fire and vapor?"

To him Apollo, in the guise of the old man, replied:   "Agathon,
the father omnipotent does not live only in the aether.  He runs
invisibly within the sun and stars, and as they whirl round and
round they break out into streams and woods and flowers, and the
clouds are shaken away from them as the leaves from off the roses.
Great, strange, and bright, he busies himself within, and at the
end of time his light shall shine, through, and men shall see it
moving in a world of flame.  Think then, as you bend over your
fields, of what you nourish and what rises up within them.  Know
that every flower as it droops in the quiet of the woodland feels
within and far away the approach of an unutterable life and is glad.
They reflect that life as the little pools the light of the stars.
Agathon, Agathon, Zeus is no greater in the aether than he is in
the leaf of grass, and the hymns of men are no sweeter to him than
a little water poured over one of his flowers."

Agathon, the husbandman, went away, and he bent tenderly in dreams
over his fruit and his vines, and he loved them more than before,
and he grew wise as he watched them and was happy working for the gods.

Then spake Damon, the shepherd Father, "while the flocks are browsing
dreams rise up within me.  They make the heart sick with longing.
The forests vanish, and I hear no more the lambs' bleat or the
rustling of the fleeces.  Voices from a thousand depths call me;
they whisper, they beseech me.  Shadows more lovely than earth's
children utter music, not for me though I faint while I listen.
Father, why do I hear the things others hear not--voices calling
to unknown hunters of wide fields, or to herdsmen, shepherds of
the starry flocks?"

Apollo answered the shepherd:  "Damon, a song stole from the silence
while the gods were not yet, and a thousand ages passed ere they
came, called forth by the music;  and a thousand ages they listened,
and then joined in the song.  Then began the worlds to glimmer
shadowy about them, and bright beings to bow before them.  These,
their children, began in their turn to sing the song that calls
forth and awakens life.  He is master of all things who has learned
their music.  Damon, heed not the shadows, but the voices.  The
voices have a message to thee from beyond the gods.  Learn their
song and sing it over again to the people until their hearts, too,
grow sick with longing, and they can hear the song within themselves.
Oh, my son, I see far off how the nations shall join in it as in a
chorus, and, hearing it, the rushing planets shall cease from their
speed and be steadfast.  Men shall hold starry sway."

The face of the god shone through the face of the old man, and it
was so full of secretness that, filled with awe, Damon, the herdsman,
passed from the presence, and a strange fire was kindled in his heart.
The songs that he sang thereafter caused childhood and peace to pass
from the dwellers in the woods.

Then the two lovers, Dion and Nemra, came in and stood before Apollo,
and Dion spake:  "Father, you who are so wise can tell us what love
is, so that we shall never miss it.  Old Tithonus nods his gray head
at us as we pass.  He says only with the changeless gods has love
endurance, and for men the loving time is short, and its sweetness
is soon over."

Neaera added:  "But it is not true, father, for his drowsy eyes
light when he remembers the old days, when he was happy and proud
in love as we are."

Apollo answered:  "My children, I will tell you the legend how love
came into the world, and how it may endure.  On high Olympus the
gods held council at the making of man, and each had brought a gift,
and each gave to man something of their own nature.  Aphrodite,
the loveliest and sweetest, paused, and was about to add a new
grace to his person;  but Eros cried:  'Let them not be so lovely
without;  let them be lovelier within.  Put your own soul in, O
mother.'  The mighty mother smiled, and so it was.  And now, whenever
love is like hers, which asks not return, but shines on all because
it must, within that love Aphrodite dwells, and it becomes immortal
by her presence."

Then Dion and Neaera went out, and as they walked home through the
forest, purple and vaporous in the evening light, they drew closer
together.  Dion, looking into the eyes of Neaera, saw there a new
gleam, violet, magical, shining--there was the presence of Aphrodite;
there was her shrine.

After came in unto Apollo the two grand-children of old Tithonus,
and they cried:  "See the flowers we have brought you!  We gathered
them for you in the valley where they grow best!" Apollo said:  "What
wisdom shall we give to children that they may remember?  Our most
beautiful for them!"  And as he stood and looked at them the mask
of age and secretness vanished.  He appeared radiant in light.  They
laughed in joy at his beauty.  Bending down he kissed each upon the
forehead, then faded away into the light which is his home.

As the sun sank down amid the blue hills, the old priest awoke with
a sigh, and cried out:  "Oh, that we could talk wisely as we do in
our dreams!"

1893


THE CAVE OF LILITH


Out of her cave came the ancient Lilith;  Lilith the wise;  Lilith
the enchantress.  There ran a little path outside her dwelling;  it
wound away among the mountains and glittering peaks, and before the
door one of the Wise Ones walked to and fro. Out of her cave came
Lilith, scornful of his solitude, exultant in her wisdom, flaunting
her shining and magical beauty.

"Still alone, star gazer!  Is thy wisdom of no avail?  Thou hast
yet to learn that I am more powerful, knowing the ways of error,
than you who know the ways of truth."

The Wise One heeded her not, but walked to and fro.  His eyes were
turned to the distant peaks, the abode of his brothers.  The starlight
fell about him;  a sweet air came down the mountain path, fluttering
his white robe;  he did not cease from his steady musing.  Lilith
wavered in her cave like a mist rising between rocks.  Her raiment
was violet, with silvery gleams.  Her face was dim, and over her
head rayed a shadowy diadem, like that which a man imagines over
the head of his beloved:  and one looking closer at her face would
have seen that this was the crown he reached out to;  that the eyes
burnt with his own longing;  that the lips were parted to yield
to the secret wishes of his heart.

"Tell me, for I would know, why do you wait so long?  I, here in
my cave between the valley and the height, blind the eyes of all
who would pass.  Those who by chance go forth to you, come back
to me again, and but one in ten thousand passes on.  My illusions
are sweeter to them than truth.  I offer every soul its own shadow.
I pay them their own price.  I have grown rich, though the simple
shepards of old gave me birth.  Men have made me;  the mortals
have made me immortal.  I rose up like a vapor from their first
dreams, and every sigh since then and every laugh remains with me.
I am made up of hopes and fears.  The subtle princes lay out their
plans of conquest in my cave, and there the hero dreams, and there
the lovers of all time write in flame their history.  I am wise,
holding all experience, to tempt, to blind, to terrify.  None shall
pass by.  Why, therefore, dost thou wait?"

The Wise One looked at her, and she shrank back a little, and a
little her silver and violet faded, but out of her cave her voice
still sounded:

"The stars and the starry crown are not yours alone to offer, and
every promise you make I make also.  I offer the good and the bad
indifferently.  The lover, the poet, the mystic, and all who would
drink of the first fountain, I delude with my mirage.  I was the
Beatrice who led Dante upwards:  the gloom was in me, and the glory
was mine also, and he went not out of my cave.  The stars and the
shining of heaven were illusions of the infinite I wove about him.
I captured his soul with the shadow of space;  a nutshell would
have contained the film.  I smote on the dim heart-chords the
manifold music of being.  God is sweeter in the human than the
human in God.  Therefore he rested in me."

She paused a little, and then went on:  "There is that fantastic
fellow who slipped by me.  Could your wisdom not retain him?  He
returned to me full of anguish, and I wound my arms round him like
a fair melancholy;  and now his sadness is as sweet to him as hope
was before his fall.  Listen to his song!"  She paused again.  A
voice came up from the depths chanting a sad knowledge:

     What of all the will to do?
          It has vanished long ago,
     For a dream-shaft pierced it through
          From the Unknown Archer's bow.

     What of all the soul to think?
          Some one offered it a cup
     Filled with a diviner drink,
          And the flame has burned it up.

     What of all the hope to climb?
          Only in the self we grope
     To the misty end of time,
          Truth has put an end to hope.

     What of all the heart to love?
          Sadder than for will or soul,
     No light lured it on above:
          Love has found itself the whole.

"Is it not pitiful?  I pity only those who pity themselves.  Yet
he is mine more surely than ever.  This is the end of human wisdom.
How shall he now escape?  What shall draw him up?"

"His will shall awaken," said the Wise One.  "I do not sorrow over
him, for long is the darkness before the spirit is born.  He learns
in your caves not to see, not to hear, not to think, for very
anguish flying your illusions."

"Sorrow is a great bond," Lilith said.

It is a bond to the object of sorrow.  He weeps what thou canst
never give him, a life never breathed in thee.  He shall come forth,
and thou shalt not see him at the time of passing.  When desire
dies the swift and invisible will awakens.  He shall go forth;
and one by one the dwellers in your caves will awaken and pass
onward.  This small old path will be trodden by generation after
generation.  Thou, too, O shining Lilith, shalt follow, not as
mistress, but as handmaiden."

"I will weave spells," Lilith cried.  "They shall never pass me.
I will drug them with the sweetest poison.  They shall rest drowsily
and content as of old.  Were they not giants long ago, mighty men
and heroes?  I overcame them with young enchantment.  Shall they
pass by feeble and longing for bygone joys, for the sins of their
exultant youth, while I have grown into a myriad wisdom?"

The Wise One walked to and fro as before, and there was silence:
and I saw that with steady will he pierced the tumultuous gloom of
the cave, and a spirit awoke here and there from its dream.  And I
though I saw that Sad Singer become filled with a new longing for
true being, and that the illusions of good and evil fell from him,
and that he came at last to the knees of the Wise One to learn the
supreme truth.  In the misty midnight I hear these three voices--
the Sad Singer, the Enchantress Lilith, and the Wise One.  From
the Sad Singer I learned that thought of itself leads nowhere, but
blows the perfume from every flower, and cuts the flower from every
tree, and hews down every tree from the valley, and in the end goes
to and fro in waste places--gnawing itself in a last hunger.  I
learned from Lilith that we weave our own enchantment, and bind
ourselves with out own imagination.  To think of the true as beyond
us or to love the symbol of being is to darken the path to wisdom,
and to debar us from eternal beauty.  From the Wise One I learned
that the truest wisdom is to wait, to work, and to will in secret.
Those who are voiceless today, tomorrow shall be eloquent, and the
earth shall hear them and her children salute them.  Of these three
truths the hardest to learn is the silent will.  Let us seek for
the highest truth.

1894


THE STORY OF A STAR


The emotions that haunted me in that little cathedral town would
be most difficult to describe.  After the hurry, rattle, and fever
of the city, the rare weeks spent here were infinitely peaceful.
They were full of a quaint sense of childhood, with sometimes a
deeper chord touched--the giant and spiritual things childhood has
dreams of.  The little room I slept in had opposite its window the
great gray cathedral wall;  it was only in the evening that the
sunlight crept round it and appeared in the room strained through
the faded green blind.  It must have been this silvery quietness
of color which in some subtle way affected me with the feeling of
a continual Sabbath;  and this was strengthened by the bells chiming
hour after hour.  The pathos, penitence, and hope expressed by the
flying notes colored the intervals with faint and delicate memories.
They haunted my dreams, and I heard with unutterable longing the
dreamy chimes pealing from some dim and vast cathedral of the cosmic
memory, until the peace they tolled became almost a nightmare, and
I longed for utter oblivion or forgetfulness of their reverberations.

More remarkable were the strange lapses into other worlds and times.
Almost as frequent as the changing of the bells were the changes
from state to state.  I realized what is meant by the Indian
philosophy of Maya.  Truly my days were full of Mayas, and my
work-a-day city life was no more real to me than one of those bright,
brief glimpses of things long past.  I talk of the past, and yet
these moments taught me how false our ideas of time are.  In the Ever-
living yesterday, today, and tomorrow are words of no meaning.  I
know I fell into what we call the past and the things I counted as
dead for ever were the things I had yet to endure.  Out of the old
age of earth I stepped into its childhood, and received once more
the primal blessing of youth, ecstasy, and beauty.  But these things
are too vast and vague to speak of, the words we use today cannot
tell their story.  Nearer to our time is the legend that follows.

I was, I thought, one of the Magi of old Persia, inheritor of its
unforgotten lore, and using some of its powers.  I tried to pierce
through the great veil of nature, and feel the life that quickened
it within.  I tried to comprehend the birth and growth of planets,
and to do this I rose spiritually and passed beyond earth's confines
into that seeming void which is the Matrix where they germinate.
On one of these journeys I was struck by the phantasm, so it seemed,
of a planet I had not observed before.  I could not then observe
closer, and coming again on another occasion it had disappeared.
After the lapse of many months I saw it once more, brilliant with
fiery beauty.  Its motion was slow, revolving around some invisible
centre.  I pondered over it, and seemed to know that the invisible
centre was its primordial spiritual state, from which it emerged a
little while and into which it then withdrew.  Short was its day;
its shining faded into a glimmer, and then into darkness in a few
months.  I learned its time and cycles;  I made preparations and
determined to await its coming.


The Birth of a Planet

At first silence and then an inner music, and then the sounds of
song throughout the vastness of its orbit grew as many in number
as there were stars at gaze.  Avenues and vistas of sound!  They
reeled to and fro.  They poured from a universal stillness quick
with unheard things.  They rushed forth and broke into a myriad
voices gay with childhood.  From age and the eternal they rushed
forth into youth.  They filled the void with reveling and exultation.
In rebellion they then returned and entered the dreadful Fountain.
Again they came forth, and the sounds faded into whispers;  they
rejoiced once again, and again died into silence.

And now all around glowed a vast twilight;  it filled the cradle
of the planet with colorless fire.  I felt a rippling motion which
impelled me away from the centre to the circumference.  At that
began to curdle, a milky and nebulous substance rocked to and fro.
At every motion the pulsation of its rhythm carried it farther and
farther away from the centre;  it grew darker, and a great purple
shadow covered it so that I could see it no longer.  I was now on
the outer verge, where the twilight still continued to encircle
the planet with zones of clear transparent light.

As night after night I rose up to visit it they grew many-colored
and brighter.  I saw the imagination of nature visibly at work.  I
wandered through shadowy immaterial forests, a titanic vegetation
built up of light and color;  I saw it growing denser, hung with
festoons and trailers of fire, and spotted with the light of myriad
flowers such as earth never knew.  Coincident with the appearance
of these things I felt within myself, as if in harmonious movement,
a sense of joyousness, an increase of self-consciousness:  I felt
full of gladness, youth, and the mystery of the new.  I felt that
greater powers were about to appear, those who had thrown outwards
this world and erected it as a place in space.

I could not tell half the wonder of this strange race.  I could not
myself comprehend more than a little of the mystery of their being.
They recognized my presence there, and communicated with me in such
a way that I can only describe it by saying that they seemed to
enter into my soul, breathing a fiery life;  yet I knew that the
highest I could reach to was but the outer verge of their spiritual
nature, and to tell you but a little I have many times to translate it;
for in the first unity with their thought I touched on an almost
universal sphere of life, I peered into the ancient heart that beats
throughout time;  and this knowledge became change in me, first into
a vast and nebulous symbology, and so down through many degrees of
human thought into words which hold not at all the pristine and
magical beauty.

I stood before one of this race, and I thought, "What is the meaning
and end of life here?"  Within me I felt the answering ecstasy that
illuminated with vistas of dawn and rest:  It seemed to say:

"Our spring and our summer are unfolding into light and form, and
our autumn and winter are a fading into the infinite soul."

I questioned in my heart, "To what end is this life poured forth
and withdrawn?"

He came nearer and touched me;  once more I felt the thrill of being
that changed itself into vision.

"The end is creation, and creation is joy.  The One awakens out of
quiescence as we come forth, and knows itself in us;  as we return
we enter it in gladness, knowing ourselves.  After long cycles the
world you live in will become like ours;  it will be poured forth
and withdrawn;  a mystic breath, a mirror to glass your being."

He disappeared while I wondered what cyclic changes would transmute
our ball of mud into the subtle substance of thought.

In that world I dared not stay during its period of withdrawal;
having entered a little into its life, I became subject to its laws;
the Powers on its return would have dissolved my being utterly.  I
felt with a wild terror its clutch upon me, and I withdrew from the
departing glory, from the greatness that was my destiny--but not yet.

From such dreams I would be aroused, perhaps, by a gentle knock at
my door, and my little cousin Margaret's quaint face would peep in
with a "Cousin Robert, are you not coming down to supper?"

Of these visions in the light of after thought I would speak a
little.  All this was but symbol, requiring to be thrice sublimed
in interpretation ere its true meaning can be grasped.  I do not
know whether worlds are heralded by such glad songs, or whether
any have such a fleeting existence, for the mind that reflects
truth is deluded with strange phantasies of time and place in
which seconds are rolled out into centuries and long cycles are
reflected in an instant of time.  There is within us a little space
through which all the threads of the universe are drawn;  and,
surrounding that incomprehensible centre, the mind of man sometimes
catches glimpses of things which are true only in those glimpses;
when we record them the true has vanished, and a shadowy story--
such as this--alone remains.  Yet, perhaps, the time is not
altogether wasted in considering legends like these, for they
reveal, though but in phantasy and symbol, a greatness we are heirs
to, a destiny which is ours though it be yet far away.

1894


A DREAM OF ANGUS OGE


The day had been wet and wild, and the woods looked dim and drenched
from the window where Con sat.  All the day long his ever restless
feet were running to the door in a vain hope of sunshine.  His sister,
Norah, to quiet him had told him over and over again the tales which
delighted him, the delight of hearing which was second only to the
delight of living them over himself, when as Cuculain he kept the
ford which led to Ulla, his sole hero heart matching the hosts of
Meave;  or as Fergus he wielded the sword of light the Druids made
and gave to the champion, which in its sweep shore away the crests
of the mountains;  or as Brian, the ill-fated child of Turann, he
went with his brothers in the ocean-sweeping boat farther than ever
Columbus traveled, winning one by one in dire conflict with kings
and enchanters the treasures which would appease the implacable
heart of Lu.

He had just died in a corner of the room from his many wounds when
Norah came in declaring that all these famous heroes must go to bed.
He protested in vain, but indeed he was sleepy, and before he had
been carried half-way to the room the little soft face drooped with
half-closed eyes, while he drowsily rubbed his nose upon her shoulder
in an effort to keep awake.  For a while she flitted about him,
looking, with her dark, shadowy hair flickering in the dim, silver
light like one of the beautiful heroines of Gaelic romance, or one
of the twilight, race of the Sidhe.  Before going she sat by his
bed and sang to him some verses of a song, set to an old Celtic
air whose low intonations were full of a half-soundless mystery:

     Over the hill-tops the gay lights are peeping;
          Down in the vale where the dim fleeces stray
     Ceases the smoke from the hamlet upcreeping:
          Come, thou, my shepherd, and lead me away.

"Who's the shepherd?" said the boy, suddenly sitting up.

"Hush, alannah, I will tell you another time." She continued
still more softly:

     Lord of the Wand, draw forth from the darkness,
          Warp of the silver, and woof of the gold:
     Leave the poor shade there bereft in its starkness:
          Wrapped in the fleece we will enter the Fold.

     There from the many-orbed heart where the Mother
          Breathes forth the love on her darlings who roam,
     We will send dreams to their land of another
          Land of the Shining, their birthplace and home.

He would have asked a hundred questions, but she bent over him,
enveloping him with a sudden nightfall of hair, to give him his
good-night kiss, and departed.  Immediately the boy sat up again;
all his sleepiness gone.  The pure, gay, delicate spirit of childhood
was darting at ideas dimly perceived in the delicious moonlight of
romance which silvered his brain, where may airy and beautiful
figures were moving:  The Fianna with floating locks chasing the
flying deer;  shapes more solemn, vast, and misty, guarding the
avenues to unspeakable secrets;  but he steadily pursued his idea.

"I guess he's one of the people who take you away to faeryland.
Wonder if he'd come to me?  Think it's easy going away," with an
intuitive perception of the frailty of the link binding childhood
to earth in its dreams.  (As a man Con will strive with passionate
intensity to regain that free, gay motion in the upper airs.)
"Think I'll try if he'll come," and he sang, with as near an
approach as he could make to the glimmering cadences of his
sister's voice:

     Come, thou, my shepherd, and lead me away.

He then lay back quite still and waited.  He could not say whether
hours or minutes had passed, or whether he had slept or not, until
he was aware of a tall golden-bearded man standing by his bed.
Wonderfully light was this figure, as if the sunlight ran through
his limbs;  a spiritual beauty was on the face, and those strange
eyes of bronze and gold with their subtle intense gaze made Con
aware for the first time of the difference between inner and out
in himself.

"Come, Con, come away!" the child seemed to hear uttered silently.

"You're the Shepherd!" said Con, "I'll go."  Then suddenly, "I won't
come back and be old when they're all dead?" a vivid remembrance of
Ossian's fate flashing upon him.

A most beautiful laughter, which again to Con seemed half soundless,
came in reply.  His fears vanished;  the golden-bearded man stretched
a hand over him for a moment, and he found himself out in the night,
now clear and starlit.  Together they moved on as if borne by the
wind, past many woods and silver-gleaming lakes, and mountains which
shone like a range of opals below the purple skies.  The Shepherd
stood still for a moment by one of these hills, and there flew out,
riverlike, a melody mingled with a tinkling as of innumerable elfin
hammers, and there, was a sound of many gay voices where an unseen
people were holding festival, or enraptured hosts who were let loose
for the awakening, the new day which was to dawn, for the delighted
child felt that faeryland was come over again with its heroes
and battles.

"Our brothers rejoice," said the Shepherd to Con.

"Who are they?" asked the boy.

"They are the thoughts of our Father."

"May we go in?" Con asked, for he was fascinated by the melody,
mystery, and flashing lights.

"Not now.  We are going to my home where I lived in the days past
when there came to me many kings and queens of ancient Eire, many
heroes and beautiful women, who longed for the Druid wisdom we taught."

"And did you fight like Finn, and carry spears as tall as trees,
and chase the deer through the Woods, and have feastings and singing?"

"No, we, the Dananns, did none of those things--but those who were
weary of battle, and to whom feast and song brought no pleasure,
came to us and passed hence to a more wonderful land, a more immortal
land than this."

As he spoke he paused before a great mound, grown over with trees,
and around it silver clear in the moonlight were immense stones piled,
the remains of an original circle, and there was a dark, low, narrow
entrance leading within.  He took Con by the hand, and in an instant
they were standing in a lofty, cross-shaped cave, built roughly of
huge stones.

"This was my palace.  In days past many a one plucked here the purple
flower of magic and the fruit of the tree of life."

"It is very dark," said the child disconsolately.  He had expected
something different.

"Nay, but look:  you will see it is the palace of a god."  And even
as he spoke a light began to glow and to pervade the cave and to
obliterate the stone walls and the antique hieroglyphs engraved
thereon, and to melt the earthen floor into itself like a fiery
sun suddenly uprisen within the world, and there was everywhere a
wandering ecstasy of sound:  light and sound were one;  light had
a voice, and the music hung glittering in the air.

"Look, how the sun is dawning for us, ever dawning;  in the earth,
in our hearts, with ever youthful and triumphant voices.  Your sun
is but a smoky shadow, ours the ruddy and eternal glow;  yours is
far way, ours is heart and hearth and home;  yours is a light without,
ours a fire within, in rock, in river, in plain, everywhere living,
everywhere dawning, whence also it cometh that the mountains emit
their wondrous rays."

As he spoke he seemed to breathe the brilliance of that mystical
sunlight and to dilate and tower, so that the child looked up to a
giant pillar of light, having in his heart a sun of ruddy gold which
shed its blinding rays about him, and over his head there was a
waving of fiery plumage and on his face an ecstasy of beauty and
immortal youth.

"I am Angus," Con heard;  "men call me the Young.  I am the sunlight
in the heart, the moonlight in the mind;  I am the light at the end
of every dream, the voice for ever calling to come away;  I am the
desire beyond you or tears.  Come with me, come with me, I will
make you immortal;  for my palace opens into the Gardens of the Sun,
and there are the fire-fountains which quench the heart's desire
in rapture."  And in the child's dream he was in a palace high as
the stars, with dazzling pillars jeweled like the dawn, and all
fashioned out of living and trembling opal.  And upon their thrones
sat the Danann gods with their sceptres and diadems of rainbow light,
and upon their faces infinite wisdom and imperishable youth.  In
the turmoil and growing chaos of his dream he heard a voice crying
out, "You remember, Con, Con, Conaire Mor, you remember!" and in
an instant he was torn from himself and had grown vaster, and was
with the Immortals, seated upon their thrones, they looking upon
him as a brother, and he was flying away with them into the heart
of the gold when he awoke, the spirit of childhood dazzled with
the vision which is too lofty for princes.

1897


DEIRDRE


A LEGEND IN THREE ACTS


Dramatis Personae:

CONCOBAR ...............  Ardrie of Ulla.
NAISI
AINLE, ARDAN ......................... Brothers of Naisi.
FERGUS
BUINNE,  ILANN ...................... Sons of Fergus
CATHVAH ...................... A Druid
DEIRDRE
LAVARCAN ................................ A Druidess
Herdsman,  Messenger .............


ACT I.


SCENE.--The dun of DEIRDRE'S captivity.  LAVARCAM, a Druidess, sits
before the door in the open air.  DEIRDRE comes out of the dun.

DEIRDRE--Dear fostermother, how the spring is beginning!  The music
of the Father's harp is awakening the flowers.  Now the winter's
sleep is over, and the spring flows from the lips of the harp.  Do
you not feel the thrill in the wind--a joy answering the trembling
strings?  Dear fostermother, the spring and the music are in my heart!

LAVARCAM--The harp has but three notes;  and, after sleep and laughter,
the last sound is of weeping.

DEIRDRE--Why should there be any sorrow while I am with you?  I am
happy here.  Last night in a dream I saw the blessed Sidhe upon
the mountains, and they looked on me with eyes of love.

(An old  HERDSMAN enters, who bows before LAVARCAM.)

HERDSMAN--Lady, the High King is coming through the woods.

LAVARCAM--Deirdre, go to the grianan for a little.  You shall tell
me your dream again, my child.

DEIRDRE--Why am I always hidden from the King's sight.

LAVARCAM--It is the King's will you should see no one except these
aged servants.

DEIRDRE--Am I indeed fearful to look upon, foster-mother?  I do not
think so, or you would not love me.

LAVARCAM--It is the King's will.

DEIRDRE--Yet why must it be so, fostermother?  Why must I hide away?
Why must I never leave the valley?

LAVARCAM--It is the king's will.

While she is speaking CONCOBAR enters.  He stands still and looks
on DEIRDRE.  DEIRDRE gazes on the KING for a moment, and then
covering her face with her hands, she hurries into the dun.  The
HERDSMAN goes out.  LAVARCAM sees and bows before the KING.

CONCOBAR--Lady, is all well with you and your charge?

LAVARCAM--All is well.

CONCOBAR--Is there peace in Deirdre's heart?

LAVARCAM--She is happy, not knowing a greater happiness than to
roam the woods or to dream of the immortal ones can bring her.

CONCOBAR--Fate has not found her yet hidden in this valley.

LAVARCAM--Her happiness is to be here.  But she asks why must she
never leave the glen.  Her heart quickens within her.  Like a bird
she listens to the spring, and soon the valley will be narrow as a cage.

CONCOBAR--I cannot open the cage.  Less ominous the Red Swineherd
at a feast than this beautiful child in Ulla.  You know the word
of the Druids at her birth.

LAVARCAM--Aye, through her would come the destruction of the Red
Branch.  But sad is my heart, thinking of her lonely youth.

CONCOBAR--The gods did not guide us how the ruin might be averted.
The Druids would have slain her, but I set myself against the wise
ones, thinking in my heart that the chivalry of the Red Branch would
be already gone if this child were slain.  If we are to perish it
shall be nobly, and without any departure from the laws of our order.
So I have hidden her away from men, hoping to stay the coming of fate.

LAVARCAM--King, your mercy will return to you, and if any of the
Red Branch fall, you will not fall.

CONCOBAR--If her thoughts turned only to the Sidhe her heart would
grow cold to the light love that warriors give.  The birds of Angus
cannot breathe or sing their maddening song in the chill air that
enfolds the wise.  For this, Druidess, I made thee her fosterer.
Has she learned to know the beauty of the ever-living ones, after
which the earth fades and no voice can call us back?

LAVARCAM--The immortals have appeared to her in vision and looked
on her with eyes of love.

CONCOBAR--Her beauty is so great it would madden whole hosts, and
turn them from remembrance of their duty.  We must guard well the
safety of the Red Branch.  Druidess, you have seen with subtle eyes
the shining life beyond this.  But through the ancient traditions
of Ulla, which the bards have kept and woven into song, I have seen
the shining law enter men's minds, and subdue the lawless into love
of justice.  A great tradition is shaping a heroic race;  and the
gods who fought at Moytura are descending and dwelling in the heart
of the Red Branch.  Deeds will be done in our time as mighty as
those wrought by the giants who battled at the dawn;  and through
the memory of our days and deeds the gods will build themselves an
eternal empire in the mind of the Gael.  Wise woman, guard well
this beauty which fills my heart with terror.  I go now, and will
doubly warn the spearmen at the passes, but will come hither again
and speak with thee of these things, and with Deirdre I would speak also.

LAVARCAM--King of Ulla, be at peace.  It is not I who will break
through the design of the gods.  (CONCOBAR goes through the woods,
after looking for a time at the door of the dun.)  But Deirdre is
also one of the immortals.  What the gods desire will utter itself
through her heart.  I will seek counsel from the gods.

[DEIRDRE comes slowly through the door.]

DEIRDRE--Is he gone?  I fear this stony king with his implacable eyes.

LAVARVAM--He is implacable only in his desire for justice.

DEIRDRE--No!  No!  There is a hunger in his eyes for I know not what.

LAVARCAM--He is the wisest king who ever sat on the chair of Macha.

DEIRDRE--He has placed a burden on my heart.  Oh! fostermother, the
harp of life is already trembling into sorrow!

LAVARCAM--Do not think of him.  Tell me your dream, my child.

[DEIRDRE comes from the door of the dun and sits on a deerskin at
LAVARCAM's feet.]

DEIRDRE--Tell me, do happy dreams bring happiness, and do our
dreams of the Sidhe ever grow real to us as you are real to me?  Do
their eyes draw nigh to ours, and can the heart we dream of ever be
a refuge for our hearts.

LAVARCAM--Tell me your dream.

DEIRDRE--Nay;  but answer first of all, dear fostermother--you who
are wise, and who have talked with the Sidhe.

LAVARCAM--Would it make you happy to have your dream real, my darling?

DEIRDRE--Oh, it would make me happy!

[She hides her face on LAVARCAM's knees.]

LAVARCAM--If I can make your dream real, I will, my beautiful fawn.

DEIRDRE--Dear fostermother, I think my dream is coming near to
me.  It is coming to me now.

LAVARCAM--Deirdre, tell me what hope has entered your heart?

DEIRDRE--In the night I saw in a dream the top of the mountain yonder,
beyond the woods, and three hunters stood there in the dawn.  The sun
sent its breath upon their faces, but there was a light about them
never kindled at the sun.  They were surely hunters from some heavenly
field, or the three gods whom Lu condemned to wander in mortal form,
and they are come again to the world to seek some greater treasure.

LAVARCAM--Describe to me these immortal hunters.  In Eire we know
no gods who take such shape appearing unto men.

DEIRDRE--I cannot now make clear to thee my remembrance of two of
the hunters, but the tallest of the three--oh, he stood like a flame
against the flameless sky, and the whole sapphire of the heavens
seemed to live in his fearless eyes!  His hair was darker than the
raven's wing, his face dazzling in its fairness.  He pointed with
his great flame-bright spear to the valley.  His companions seemed
in doubt, and pointed east and west.  Then in my dream I came nigh
him and whispered in his ear, and pointed the way through the valley
to our dun.  I looked into his eyes, and he started like one who
sees a vision; and I know, dear fostermother, he will come here,
and he will love me.  Oh, I would die if he did not love me!

LAVARCAM--Make haste, my child, and tell me was there aught else
memorable about this hero and his companions?

DEIRDRE--Yes, I remember each had the likeness of a torch shedding
rays of gold embroidered on the breast.

LAVARCAM--Deirdre, Deirdre, these are no phantoms, but living heroes!
O wise king, the eyes of the spirit thou wouldst open have seen
farther than the eyes of the body thou wouldst blind!  The Druid
vision has only revealed to this child her destiny.

DEIRDRE--Why do you talk so strangely, fostermother?

LAVARCAM--Concobar, I will not fight against the will of the immortals.
I am not thy servant, but theirs.  Let the Red Branch fall!  If the
gods scatter it they have chosen to guide the people of Ulla in
another I path.

DEIRDRE--What has disturbed your mind, dear foster-mother?  What
have I to do with the Red Branch?  And why should the people of
Ulla fall because of me?

LAVARCAM--O Deirdre, there were no warriors created could overcome
the Red Branch.  The gods have but smiled on this proud chivalry
through thine eyes, and they are already melted.  The waving of
thy hand is more powerful to subdue than the silver rod of the
king to sustain.  Thy golden hair shall be the flame to burn up Ulla.

DEIDRE--Oh, what do you mean by these fateful prophecies?  You fill
me with terror.  Why should a dream so gentle and sweet portend sorrow?

LAVARCAM--Dear golden head, cast sorrow aside for a time.  The
Father has not yet struck the last chords on the harp of life.
The chords of joy have but begun for thee.

DEIRDRE--You confuse my mind, dear fostermother, with your speech
of joy and sorrow.  It is not your wont.  Indeed, I think my dream
portends joy.

LAVARCAM--It is love, Deirdre, which is coming to thee.  Love, which
thou hast never known.

DEIRDRE--But I love thee, dearest and kindest of guardians.

LAVARCAM--Oh, in this love heaven and earth will be forgotten, and
your own self unremembered, or dim and far off as a home the spirit
fives in no longer.

DEIRDRE--Tell me, will the hunter from the hills come to us?  I
think I could forget all for him.

LAVARCAM--He is not one of the Sidhe, but the proudest and bravest
of the Red Branch, Naisi,  son of Usna.  Three lights of valor among
the Ultonians  are Naisi and his brothers.

DEIRDRE--Will he love me, fostermother, as you love me, and will
he live with us here?

LAVARCAM--Nay, where he goes you must go, and he must fly afar to
live with you.  But I will leave you now for a little, child, I
would divine the future.

[LAVARCAM kisses DEIRDRE and goes within the dun.  DEIRDRE walks
to and fro before the door.  NAISI enters.  He sees DEIRDRE, who
turns and looks at him, pressing her hands to her breast.  Naisi
bows before DEIRDRE.]

NAISI--Goddess, or enchantress, thy face shone on me at dawn on
the mountain.  Thy lips called me hither, and I have come.

DEIRDRE--I called thee, dear Naisi.

NAISI--Oh, knowing my name, never before having spoken to me, thou
must know my heart also.

DEIRDRE--Nay, I know not.  Tell me what is in thy heart.

NAISI--O enchantress, thou art there.  The image of thine eyes is
there and thy smiling lips, and the beating of my heart is muffled
in a cloud of thy golden tresses.

DEIRDRE--Say on, dear Naisi.

NAISI--I have told thee all.  Thou only art in my heart.

DEIRDRE--But I have never ere this spoken to any man.  Tell me more.

NAISI--If thou hast never before spoken to any man, then indeed
art thou one of the immortals, and my hope is vain.  Hast thou
only called me to thy world to extinguish my life hereafter in
memories of thee?

DEIRDRE--What wouldst thou with me, dear Naisi?

NAISI--I would carry thee to my dun by the sea of Moyle, O beautiful
woman, and set thee there on an ivory throne.  The winter would not
chill thee there, nor the summer burn thee, for I would enfold thee
with my love, enchantress, if thou camest--to my world.  Many
warriors are there of the clan Usna, and two brothers I have who
are strong above any hosts, and they would all die with me for thy sake.

DEIRDRE (taking the hands of NAISI)--I will go with thee where thou
goest.  (Leaning her head on NAISI's shoulder.)  Oh, fostermother,
too truly hast thou spoken!  I know myself not.  My spirit has gone
from me to this other heart for ever.

NAISI--Dost thou forego thy shining world for me?

LAVARCAM--(coming out of the dun).  Naisi, this is the Deirdre of
the prophecies.

NAISI--Deirdre!  Deirdre!  I remember in some old tale of my childhood
that name. (Fiercely.)   It was a lying prophecy.  What has this girl
to do with the downfall of Ulla?

LAVARCAM--Thou art the light of the Ultonian's, Naisi, but thou art
not the star of knowledge.  The Druids spake truly.  Through her,
but not through her sin, will come the destruction of the Red Branch.

NAISI--I have counted death as nothing battling for the Red Branch;
and I would not, even for Deirdre, war upon my comrades.  But Deirdre
I will not leave nor forget for a thousand prophecies made by the
Druids in their dotage.  If the Red Branch must fall, it will fall
through treachery;  but Deirdre I will love, and in my love is no
dishonor, nor any broken pledge.

LAVARCAM--Remember, Naisi, the law of the king.  It is death to
thee to be here.  Concobar is even now in the woods, and will come
hither again.

DEIRDRE--Is it death to thee to love me, Naisi?  Oh, fly quickly,
and forget me.  But first, before thou goest, bend down thy head--
low--rest it on my bosom.  Listen to the beating of my heart.  That
passionate tumult is for thee!  There, I have kissed thee.  I have
sweet memories for ever-lasting.  Go now, my beloved, quickly.  I
fear--I fear for thee this stony king.

NAISI--I do not fear the king, nor will I fly hence.  It is due to
the chief of the Red Branch that I should stay and face him, having
set my mill against his.

LAVARCAM--You cannot remain now.

NAISI--It is due to the king.

LAVARCAM--You must go;  both must go.  Do not cloud your heart with
dreams of a false honor.  It is not your death only, but Deirdre's
which will follow.  Do you think the Red Branch would spare her,
after your death, to extinguish another light of valor, and another
who may wander here?

NAISI--I will go with Deirdre to Alba.

DEIRDRE--Through life or to death I will go with thee, Naisi.

[Voices of AINLE and ARDAN are heard in the wood.]

ARDAN--I think Naisi went this way.

AINLE--He has been wrapt in a dream since the dawn.  See!  This
is his footstep in the clay!

ARDAN--I heard voices.

AINLE--(entering with ARDAN)  Here is our dream-led brother.

NAISI--Ainle and Ardan, this is Deirdre, your sister.  I have
broken through the command of the king, and fly with her to Alba
to avoid warfare with the Red Branch.

ARDAN--Our love to thee, beautiful sister.

AINLE--Dear maiden, thou art already in my heart with Naisi.

LAVARCAM--You cannot linger here.  With Concobar the deed follows
swiftly the counsel;  tonight his spearmen will be on your track.

NAISI--Listen, Ainle and Ardan. Go you to Emain Macha.  It may be
the Red Branch will make peace between the king and myself.  You
are guiltless in this flight.

AINLE--Having seen Deirdre, my heart is with you, brother, and I
also am guilty.

ARDAN--I think, being here, we, too, have broken the command of
the king.  We will go with thee to Alba, dear brother and sister.

LAVARCAM--Oh, tarry not, tarry not!  Make haste while there is yet
time.  The thoughts of the king are circling around Deirdre as
wolves around the fold.  Try not the passes of the valley, but
over the hills.  The passes are all filled with the spearmen of
the king.

NAISI--We will carry thee over the mountains, Deirdre, and tomorrow
will see us nigh to the isles of Alba.

DEIRDRE--Farewell, dear fostermother.  I have passed the faery sea
since dawn, and have found the Island of Joy.  Oh, see! what bright
birds are around us, with dazzling wings!  Can you not hear their
singing?  Oh, bright birds, make music for ever around my love and me!

LAVARCAM--They are the birds of Angus.  Their singing brings love--
and death.

DEIRDRE--Nay, death has come before love, dear fostermother, and
all I was has vanished like a dewdrop in the sun.  Oh, beloved,
let us go.  We are leaving death behind us in the valley.

[DEIRDRE and the brothers go through the wood.  LAVARCAM watches,
and when they are out of sight sits by the door of the dun with
her head bowed to her knees.  After a little CONCOBAR enters.]

CONCOBAR--Where is Deirdre?

LAVARCAM--(not lifting her head).  Deirdre has left death behind her,
and has entered into the Kingdom of her Youth.

CONCOBAR--Do not speak to me in portents.  Lift up your head,
Druidess.  Where is Deirdre?

LAVARCAM--(looking up).  Deirdre is gone!

CONCOBAR--By the high gods, tell me whither, and who has dared to
take her hence?

LAVARCAM--She has fled with Naisi, son of Usna, and is beyond your
vengeance, king.

CONCOBAR--Woman, I swear by Balor, Tethra, and all the brood of
demons, I will have such a vengeance a thousand years hereafter
shall be frightened at the tale.  If the Red Branch is to fall,
it will sink at least in the seas of the blood of the clan Usna.

LAVARCAM--O king, the doom of the Red Branch had already gone forth
when you suffered love for Deirdre to enter your heart.

[Scene closes.]


ACT II.


SCENE.--In a dun by Loch Etive.  Through the open door can be seen
lakes and wooded islands in a silver twilight.  DEIRDRE stands at
the door looking over the lake.  NAISI is within binding a spearhead
to the shaft.

DEIRDRE--How still is the twihght!  It is the sunset, not of one,
but of many days--so still, so still, so living!  The enchantment
of Dana is upon the lakes and islands and woods, and the Great
Father looks down through the deepening heavens.

NAISI--Thou art half of their world, beautiful woman, and it seems
fair to me, gazing on thine eyes.  But when thou art not beside me
the flashing of spears is more to be admired than a whole heaven-
full of stars.

DEIRDRE--O Naisi! still dost thou long, for the Red Branch and the
peril of battles and death.

NAISI--Not for the Red Branch, nor the peril of battles, nor death,
do I long.  But--

DEIRDRE--But what, Naisi?  What memory of Eri hast thou hoarded
in thy heart?

NAISI--(bending over his spear)  It is nothing, Deirdre.

DEIRDRE--It is a night of many days, Naisi.  See, all the bright
day had hidden is revealed!  Look, there!  A star! and another star!
They could not see each other through the day, for the hot mists
of the sun were about them.  Three years of the sun have we passed
in Alba, Naisi, and now, O star of my heart, truly do I see you,
this night of many days.

NAISI--Though my breast lay clear as a crystal before thee, thou
couldst see no change in my heart.

DEIRDRE--There is no change, beloved;  but I see there one memory
warring on thy peace.

NAISI--What is it then, wise woman?

DEIRDRE--O Naisi, I have looked within thy heart, and thou hast
there imagined a king with scornful eyes thinking of thy flight.

NAISI--By the gods, but it is true!  I would give this kingdom I
have won in Alba to tell the proud monarch I fear him not.

DEIRDRE--O Naisi, that thought will draw thee back to Eri, and to
I know not what peril and death beyond the seas.

NAISI--I will not war on the Red Branch.  They were ever faithful
comrades.  Be at peace, Deirdre.

DEIRDRE--Oh, how vain it is to say to the heart, "Be at peace,"
when the heart will not rest!  Sorrow is on me, beloved, and I
know not wherefore.  It has taken the strong and fast place of my
heart, and sighs there hidden in my love for thee.

NAISI--Dear one, the songs of Ainle and the pleasant tales of Ardan
will drive away thy sorrow.

DEIRDRE--Ainle and Ardan!  Where are they?  They linger long.

NAISI--They are watching a sail that set hitherward from the south.

DEIRDRE--A sail!

NAISI--A sail!  What is there to startle thee in that?  Have not a
thousand galleys lain in Loch Etive since I built this dun by the sea.

DEIRDRE--I do not know, but my spirit died down in my heart as you
spake.  I think the wind that brings it blows from Eri, and it is
it has brought sorrow to me.

NAISI--My beautiful one, it is but a fancy.  It is some merchant
comes hither to barter Tyrian cloths for the cunning work of our
smiths.  But glad would I be if he came from Eri, and I would feast
him here for a night, and sit round a fire of turves and hear of
the deeds of the Red Branch.

DEIRDRE--Your heart for ever goes out to the Red Branch, Naisi.
Were there any like unto thee, or Ainle, or Ardan?

NAISI--We were accounted most skilful, but no one was held to be
braver than another.  If there were one it was great Fergus who
laid aside the silver rod which he held as Ardrie of Ulla, but he
is in himself greater than any king.

DEIRDRE--And does one hero draw your heart back to Eri?

NAISI--A river of love, indeed, flows from my heart unto Fergus,
for there is no one more noble.  But there were many others, Conal,
and the boy we called Cuculain, a dark, sad child, who was the
darling of the Red Branch, and truly he seemed like one who would be
a world-famous warrior.  There were many held him to be a god in exile.

DEIRDRE--I think we, too, are in exile in this world.  But tell me
who else among the Red Branch do you think of with love?

NAISI--There was the Ardrie, Concobar, whom ho man knows, indeed,
for he is unfathomable.  But he is a wise king, though moody and
passionate at times, for he was cursed in his youth for a sin
against one of the Sidhe.

DEIRDRE--Oh, do not speak of him!  My heart falls at the thought
of him as into a grave, and I know I will die when we meet.

NAISI--I know one who will die before that, my fawn.

DEIRDRE--Naisi!  You remember when we fled that night;  as I lay
by thy side--thou wert yet strange to me--I heard voices speaking
out of the air.  The great ones were invisible, yet their voices
sounded solemnly.  "Our brother and our sister do not remember,"
one said;  and another spake:   "They will serve the purpose all
the same," and there was more which I could not understand, but I
knew we were to bring some great gift to the Gael.  Yesternight,
in a dream, I heard the voices again, and I cannot recall what they
said;  but as I woke from sleep my pillow was wet with tears falling
softly, as out of another world, and I saw before me thy face, pale
and still, Naisi, and the king, with his implacable eyes.  Oh,
pulse of my heart, I know the gift we shall give to the Gael will
be a memory to pity and sigh over, and I shall be the priestess of
tears.  Naisi, promise me you will never go back to Ulla--swear
to me, Naisi.

NAISI--I will, if--

[Here AINLE and ARDAN enter.]

AINLE--Oh, great tidings, brother!

DEIRDRE--I feel fate is stealing on us with the footsteps of those
we love.  Before they speak, promise me, Naisi.

AINLE--What is it, dear sister?  Naisi will promise thee anything,
and if he does not we will make him do it all the same.

DEIDRE--Oh, let me speak!  Both Death and the Heart's Desire are
speeding to win the race.  Promise me, Naisi, you will never
return to Ulla.

ARDAN--Naisi, it were well to hear what tale may come from Emain
Macha.  One of the Red Branch displays our banner on a galley from
the South.  I have sent a boat to bring this warrior to our dun.
It may be Concobar is dead.

DEIRDRE--Why should we return?  Is not the Clan Usna greater here
than ever in Eri.

AINLE--Dear sister, it is the land which gave us birth, which ever
like a mother whispered to us, and its whisper is sweeter than the
promise of beloved lips.  Though we are kings here in Alba we are
exiles, and the heart is afar from its home.  [A distant shout
is heard.]

NAISI--I hear a call like the voice of a man of Eri.

DEIRDRE--It is only a herdsman calling home his cattle.  (She puts
her arms round NAISI's neck.)  Beloved, am I become so little to
you that your heart is empty, and sighs for Eri?

NAISI--Deirdre, in my flight I have brought with me many whose
desire is afar, while you are set as a star by my side.  They have
left their own land and many a maiden sighs for the clansmen who
never return.  There is also the shadow of fear on my name, because
I fled and did not face the king.  Shall I swear to keep my comrades
in exile, and let the shame of fear rest on the chieftain of their clan?

DEIRDRE--Can they not go?  Are we not enough for each other, for
surely to me thou art hearth and home, and where thou art there
the dream ends, and beyond it.  There is no other dream.  [A voice
is heard without, more clearly calling.]

AINLE--It is a familiar voice that calls!  And I thought I heard
thy name, Naisi.

ARDAN--It is the honey-sweet speech of a man of Eri.

DEIRDRE--It is one of our own clansmen.  Naisi, will you not speak?
The hour is passing, and soon there will be naught but a destiny.

FERGUS--(without)  Naisi!  Naisi!

NAISI--A deep voice, like the roar of a storm god!  It is Fergus
who comes from Eri.

ARDAN--He comes as a friend.  There is no treachery in the Red Branch.

AINLE.--Let us meet him, and give him welcome!  [The brothers go
to the door of the dun.  DEIRDRE leans against the wall with terror
in her eyes.]

DEIRDRE--(in a low broken voice).  Naisi!  (NAISI returns to her
side.  AINLE and ARDAN go out.  DEIRDRE rests one hand on  NAISI's
shoulders and with the other points upwards.)  Do you not see them?
The bright birds which sang at our flight!  Look, how they wheel
about us as they sing!  What a heart-rending music!  And their
plumage, Naisi!  It is all dabbled with crimson;  and they shake
a ruddy dew from their wings upon us!  Your brow is stained with
the drops.  Let me clear away the stains.  They pour over your face
and hands. Oh!  [She hides her face on  NAISI's breast.]

NAISI--Poor, frightened one, there are no birds!  See, how clear
are my hands!  Look again on my face.

DEIRDRE--(looking up for an instant).  Oh! blind, staring eyes.

NAISI--Nay, they are filled with love, light of my heart.  What
has troubled your mind?  Am I not beside you, and a thousand
clansmen around our dun?

DEIRDRE--They go, and the music dies out.  What was it Lavarcam said?
Their singing brings love and death.

NAISI--What matters death, for love will find us among the Ever
Living Ones.  We are immortals and it does not become us to grieve.

DEIRDRE--Naisi, there is some treachery in the coming of Fergus.

NAISI--I say to you, Deirdre, that treachery is not to be spoken
of with Fergus.  He was my fosterer,  who taught me all a chieftain
should feel, and I shall not now accuse him on the foolish fancy
of a woman.  (He turns from DEIRDRE, and as he nears the door
FERGUS enters with hands laid affectionately on a shoulder of each
of the brothers;  BUINNE and ILANN follow.)  Welcome, Fergus!  Glad
is my heart at your coming, whether you bring good tidings or ill!

FERGUS--I would not have crossed the sea of Moyle to bring thee
ill tidings, Naisi.  (He sees DEIRDRE.)  My coming has affrighted
thy lady, who shakes like the white wave trembling before its fall.
I swear to thee, Deirdre, that the sons of Usna are dear to me as
children to a father.

DEIRDRE--The Birds of Angus showed all fiery and crimson as you came!

BUINNE--If we are not welcome in this dun let us return!

FERGUS--Be still, hasty boy.

ILANN--The lady Deirdre has received some omen or warning on our
account.  When the Sidhe declare their will, we should with due
awe consider it.

ARDAN--Her mind has been troubled by a dream of some ill to Naisi.

NAISI--It was not by dreaming evils that the sons of Usna grew to
be champions in Ulla.  And I took thee to my heart, Deirdre, though
the Druids trembled to murmur thy name.

FERGUS--If we listened to dreamers and foretellers the sword would
never flash from its sheath.  In truth, I have never found the Sidhe
send omens to warriors;  they rather bid them fly to herald our coming.

DEIRDRE--And what doom comes with thee now that such omens fled
before thee?  I fear thy coming, warrior.  I fear the Lights of
Valor will be soon extinguished.

FERGUS--Thou shalt smile again, pale princess, when thou hast heard
my tale.  It is not to the sons of Usna I would bring sorrow.  Naisi,
thou art free to return to Ulla.

NAISI--Does the king then forego his vengeance?

DEIRDRE--The king will never forego his vengeance.  I have looked
on his face--the face of one who never changes his purpose.

FERGUS--He sends forgiveness and greetings.

DEIRDRE--O Naisi, he sends honied words by the mouth of Fergus,
but the pent-up death broods in his own heart.

BUINNE--We were tempest-beaten, indeed, on the sea of Moyle, but
the storm of this girl's speech is more fearful to face.

FERGUS--Your tongue is too swift, Buinne.  I say to you, Deirdre,
that if all the kings of Eri brooded ill to Naisi, they dare not
break through my protection.

NAISI--It is true, indeed, Fergus, though I have never asked any
protection save my own sword.  It is a chill welcome you give to
Fergus and his sons, Deirdre.  Ainle, tell them within to make ready
the feasting hall.  [AINLE goes into an inner room.]

DEIRDRE--I pray thy pardon, warrior.  Thy love for Naisi I do not
doubt.  But in this holy place there is peace, and the doom that
Cathvah the Druid cried cannot fall.  And oh, I feel, too, there,
is One here among us who pushes us silently from the place of life,
and we are drifting away--away from the world, on a tide which goes
down into the darkness!

ARDAN--The darkness is in your mind alone, poor sister.  Great is
our joy to hear the message of Fergus.

NAISI--It is not like the king to change his will.  Fergus, what
has wrought upon his mind?

FERGUS--He took counsel with the Druids and Lavarcam, and thereafter
spake at Emain Macha, that for no woman in the world should the sons
of Usna be apart from the Red Branch.  And so we all spake joyfully;
and I have come with the king's message of peace, for he knew that
for none else wouldst thou return.

NAISI--Surely, I will go with thee, Fergus.  I long for the shining
eyes of friends and the fellowship of the Red Branch, and to see
my own country by the sea of Moyle.  I weary of this barbarous
people in Alba.

DEIRDRE--O children of Usna, there is death in your going!  Naisi,
will you not stay the storm bird of sorrow?  I forehear the falling
of tears that cease not, and in generations unborn the sorrow of
it all that will never be stilled!

NAISI--Deirdre!  Deirdre!  It is not right for you, beautiful woman,
to come with tears between a thousand exiles and their own land!
Many battles have I fought, knowing well there would be death and
weeping after.  If I feared to trust to the word of great kings
and warriors, it is not with tears I would be remembered.  What
would the bards sing of Naisi--without trust! afraid of the
outstretched hand!--freighted by a woman's fears!  By the gods,
before the clan Usna were so shamed I would shed my blood here
with my own hand.

DEIRDRE--O stay, stay your anger!  Have pity on me, Naisi!  Your
words, like lightnings, sear my heart.  Never again will I seek
to stay thee.  But speak to me with love once more, Naisi.  Do not
bend your brows on me with anger;  for, oh! but a little time
remains for us to love!

FERGUS--Nay, Deirdre, there are many years.  Thou shalt yet
smile back on this hour in thy old years thinking of the love
and laughter between.

AINLE--(entering)  The feast is ready for our guests.

ARDAN--The bards shall sing of Eri tonight.  Let the harpers sound
their gayest music.  Oh, to be back once more in royal Emain!

NAISI--Come, Deirdre, forget thy fears.  Come, Fergus, I long to
hear from thy lips of the Red Branch and Ulla.

FERGUS--It is geasa with me not to refuse a feast offered by one
of the Red Branch.

[FERGUS, BUINNE, ILANN, and the sons of Usna go into the inner room.
DEIRDRE remains silently standing for a time, as if stunned.  The
sound of laughter and music floats in.  She goes to the door of
the dun, looking out again over the lakes and islands.]

DEIRDRE--Farewell O home of happy memories.  Though thou art bleak
to Naisi, to me thou art bright.  I shall never see thee more, save
as shadows we wander here, weeping over what is gone.  Farewell, O
gentle people, who made music for me on the hills.  The Father has
struck the last chord on the Harp of Life, and the music I shall
hear hereafter will be only sorrow.  O Mother Dana, who breathed
up love through the dim earth to my heart, be with me where I am
going.  Soon shall I lie close to thee for comfort, where many a
broken heart has lain and many a weeping head.  [Music of harps
and laughter again floats in.]

VOICES--Deirdre!  Deirdre!  Deirdre!

[DEIRDRE leaves the door of the dun, and the scene closes as she
flings herself on a couch, burying her face in her arms.]


ACT III.


SCENE.--The House of the Red Branch at Emain Macha.  There is a
door covered with curtains, through which the blue light of evening
can be seen.  CONCOBAR sits at a table on which is a chessboard,
with figures arranged.  LAVARCAM stands before the table.

CONCOBAR--The air is dense with omens, but all is uncertain. Cathvah,
for all his Druid art, is uncertain, and cannot foresee the future;
and in my dreams, too, I again see Macha, who died at my feet, and
she passes by me with a secret exultant smile.  O Druidess, is the
sin of my boyhood to be avenged by this woman who comes back to Eri
in a cloud of prophecy?

LAVARCAM--The great beauty has passed from Deirdre in her wanderings
from place to place and from island to island.  Many a time has she
slept on the bare earth ere Naisi won a kingdom for himself in Alba.
Surely the prophecy has already been fulfilled, for blood has been
shed for Deirdre, and the Red Branch divided on her account.  To
Naisi the Red Branch are as brothers.  Thou hast naught to fear.

CONCOBAR--Well, I have put aside my fears and taken thy counsel,
Druidess.  For the sake of the Red Branch I have forgiven the sons
of Usna.  Now, I will call together the Red Branch, for it is my
purpose to bring the five provinces under our sway, and there shall
be but one kingdom in Eri between the seas.  [A distant shouting of
many voices is heard. LAVARCAM starts, clasping her hands.]

Why dost thou start, Druidess?  Was it not foretold from of old,
that the gods would rule over one people in Eri?  I sometimes think
the warrior soul of Lu shines through the boy Cuculain, who, after
me, shall guide the Red Branch;  aye, and with him are many of the
old company who fought at Moytura, come back to renew the everlasting
battle.  Is not this the Isle of Destiny, and the hour at hand?  [The
clamor is again renewed.]

What, is this clamor as if men hailed a king?  (Calls.)  Is there
one without there?  (ILANN enters.)  Ah!  returned from Alba with
the fugitives!

ILANN--King, we have fulfilled our charge.  The sons of Usna are with
us in Emain Macha.  Whither is it your pleasure they should be led?

CONCOBAR--They shall be lodged here, in the House of the Red Branch.
(ILANN is about to withdraw.)  Yet, wait, what mean all these cries
as of astonished men?

ILANN--The lady, Deirdre, has come with us, and her beauty is a
wonder to the gazers in the streets, for she moves among them like
one of the Sidhe, whiter than ivory, with long hair of gold, and her
eyes, like the blue flame of twilight, make mystery in their hearts.

CONCOBAR--(starting up)  This is no fading beauty who returns!  You
hear, Druidess!

ILANN--Ardrie of Ulla, whoever has fabled to thee that the beauty
of Deirdre is past has lied.  She is sorrowful, indeed, but her
sadness only bows the heart to more adoration than her joy, and
pity for her seems sweeter than the dream of love.  Fading!  Yes,
her yesterday fades behind her every morning, and every changing
mood seems only an unveiling to bring her nearer to the golden
spirit within.  But how could I describe Deirdre?  In a little
while she will be here, and you shall see her with your own eyes.
[ILLAN bows and goes out]

CONCOBAR--I will, indeed, see her with my own eyes.  I will not,
on the report of a boy, speak words that shall make the Red Branch
to drip with blood.  I will see with my own eyes.  (He goes to
the door.)  But I swear to thee, Druidess, if thou hast plotted
deceit a second time with Naisi, that all Eri may fall asunder,
but I will be avenged.

[He holds the curtain aside with one hand and looks out.  As he
gazes his face grows sterner, and he lifts his hand above his head
in menace.  LAVARCAM looks on with terror, and as he drops the
curtain and looks back on her, she lets her face sink in her hands.]

CONCOBAR--(scornfully)  A Druid makes prophecies and a Druidess
schemes to bring them to pass!  Well have you all worked together!
A fading beauty was to return, and the Lights of Valor to shine
again in the Red-Branch!  And I, the Ardrie of Ulla and the head
of the Red Branch, to pass by the broken law and the after deceit!
I, whose sole thought was of the building up of a people, to be
set aside!  The high gods may judge me hereafter, but tonight shall
see the broken law set straight, and vengeance on the traitors to Ulla!

LAVARCAM--It was all my doing!  They are innocent!  I loved Deirdre,
O king! let your anger be on me alone.

CONCOBAR--Oh, tongue of falsehood!  Who can believe you!  The fate
of Ulla was in your charge, and you let it go forth at the instant
wish of a man and a girl's desire.  The fate of Ulla was too distant,
and you must bring it nigher--the torch to the pile!  Breakers of
the law and makers of lies, you shall all perish together!

[CONCOBAR leaves the room. LAVARCAM remains, her being shaken with
sobs.  After a pause  NAISI enters with DEIRDRE.  AINLE, ARDAN,
ILANN, and BUINNE follow.  During the dialogue which ensues, NAISI
is inattentive, and is curiously examining the chess-board.]

DEIRDRE--We are entering a house of death!  Who is it that weeps so?
I, too, would weep, but the children of Usna are too proud to let
tears be seen in the eyes of their women.  (She sees LAVARCAM, who
raises her head from the table.)  O fostermother, for whom do you
sorrow?  Ah!  it is for us.  You still love me dear fostermother;
but you, who are wise, could you not have warned the Lights of Valor?
Was it kind to keep silence, and only meet us here with tears?

LAVARCAM--O Deirdre, my child! my darling! I have let love and
longing blind my eyes.  I left the mountain home of the gods for
Emain Macha, and to plot for your return.  I--I deceived the king.
I told him your loveliness was passed, and the time of the prophecy
gone by.  I thought when you came all would be well.  I thought
wildly, for love had made a blindness in my heart, and now the king
has discovered the deceit;  and, oh! he  has gone away in wrath,
and soon his terrible hand will fall!

DEIRDRE--It was not love made you all blind, but the high gods have
deserted us, and the demons draw us into a trap.  They have lured
us from Alba, and they hover here above  us in red clouds--cloud
upon cloud--and await the sacrifice.

LAVARACAM--Oh, it is not yet too late!  Where is Fergus?  The king
dare not war on Fergus.  Fergus is our only hope.

DEIRDRE--Fergus has bartered his honor for a feast.  He remained
with Baruch that he might boast he never refused the wine cup.  He
feasts with Baruch, and the Lights of Valor who put their trust in
him--must die.

BUINNE--Fergus never bartered his honor.  I do protest, girl,
against your speech.  The name of Fergus alone would protect you
throughout all Eri;   how much more here, where he is champion in
Ulla.  Come, brother, we are none of us needed here.  [BUINNE
leaves the room.]

DEIRDRE--Father and son alike desert us!  O fostermother, is this
the end of all?  Is there no way out?  Is there no way out?

ILANN--I will not desert you, Deirdre, while I can still thrust a
spear.  But you, fear overmuch without a cause.

LAVARACAM--Bar up the door and close the windows.  I will send a
swift messenger for Fergus.  If you hold the dun until Fergus comes
all will yet be well.    [LAVARCAM hurries out.]

DEIRDRE---(going to NAISI)--Naisi, do you not hear?  Let the door
be barred!  Ainle and Ardan, are you still all blind?  Oh! must I
close them with my own hand!

[DEIRDRE goes to the Window, and lays her hand on the bars NAISI
follows her.]

NAISI--Deirdre, in your girlhood you have not known of the ways
of the Red Branch.  This thing you fear is unheard of in Ulla.  The
king may be wrathful;  but the word, once passed, is inviolable.  If
he whispered treachery to one of the Red Branch he would not be
Ardrie tomorrow.  Nay, leave the window unbarred, or they will say
the sons of Usna have returned timid as birds!  Come, we are enough
protection for thee.  See, here is the chessboard of Concobar, with
which he is wont to divine, playing a lonely game with fate.  The
pieces are set.  We will finish the game, and so pass the time until
the feast is ready.  (He sits down)  The golden pieces are yours
and the silver mine.

AINLE--(looking at the board)  You have given Deirdre the weaker side.

NAISI--Deirdre always plays with more cunning skill.

DEIRDRE--O fearless one, if he who set the game played with fate,
the victory is already fixed, and no skill may avail.

NAISI--We will see if Concobar has favourable omens.  It is geasa
for him always to play with silver pieces.  I will follow his game.
It is your move.  Dear one, will you not smile?  Surely, against
Concobar you will play well.

DEIRDRE--It is too late.  See, everywhere my king is threatened!

ARDAN--Nay, your game is not lost.  If you move your king back all
will be well.

MESSENGER--(at the door)  I bear a message from the Ardrie to the
sons of Usna.

NAISI--Speak out thy message, man.  Why does thy voice tremble?  Who
art thou?  I do not know thee.  Thou art not one of the Red Branch.
Concobar is not wont to send messages to kings by such as thou.

MESSENGER--The Red Branch are far from Emain Macha--but it matters
not.  The king has commanded me to speak thus to the sons of Usna.
You have broken the law of Ulla when you stole away the daughter of
Felim.  You have broken the law of the Red Branch when you sent
lying messages through Lavarcam plotting to return.  The king
commands that the daughter of Felim be given up,  and--

AINLIE--Are we to listen to this?

ARDAN--My spear will fly of itself if he does not depart.

NAISI--Nay, brother, he is only a slave.  (To the MESSENGER.)  Return
to Concobar, and tell him that tomorrow the Red Branch will choose
another chief.  There, why dost thou wait?  Begone!  (To DEIRDRE.)
Oh, wise woman, truly did you see the rottenness in this king!

DEIRDRE--Why did you not take my counsel, Naisi?  For now it is
too late--too late.

NAISI--There is naught to fear.  One of us could hold this dun
against a thousand of Concobar's household slaves.  When Fergus
comes tomorrow there will be another king in Emain Macha.

ILANN--It is true, Deirdre.  One of us is enough for Concobar's
household slaves.  I will keep watch at the door while you play at
peace with Naisi.

[ILANN lifts the curtain of the door and goes outside.  The Play at
chess begins again.  AINLE and ARDAN look on.]

AINLE--Naisi, you play wildly.  See, your queen will be taken.  [A
disturbance without and the clash of arms.]

ILANN--(Without)  Keep back!  Do you dare?

NAISI--Ah! the slaves come on, driven by the false Ardrie!  When
the game is finished we will sweep them back and slay them in the
Royal House before Concobar's eyes.  Play!  You forget to move,
Deirdre.  [The clash of arms is renewed.]

ILANN--(without)  Oh!  I am wounded.  Ainle!  Ardan!  To the door!

[AINLE and ARDAN rush out. The clash of arms renewed.]

DEIRDRE--Naisi, I cannot.  I cannot.  The end of all has come.  Oh,
Naisi!  [She flings her arms across the table, scattering the pieces
over the board.]

NAISI--If the end has come we should meet it with calm.  It is not
with sighing and tears the Clan Usna should depart.  You have not
played this game as it ought to be played.

DEIRDRE--Your pride is molded and set like a pillar of bronze.  O
warrior, I was no mate for you.  I am only a woman, who has given
her life into your hands, and you chide me for my love.

NAISI--(caressing her head with his hands)  Poor timid dove, I had
forgotten thy weakness.  I did not mean to wound thee, my heart.  Oh,
many will shed hotter tears than these for thy sorrow!  They will
perish swiftly who made Naisi's queen to weep!  [He snatches up a
spear and rushes out.  There are cries, and then a silence.]

LAVARCAM--(entering hurriedly)  Bear Deirdre swiftly away through
the night. (She stops and looks around.)  Where are the sons of Usna?
Oh! I stepped over many dead bodies at the door.  Surely the Lights
of Valor were not so soon overcome!  Oh, my darling!  come away with
me from this terrible house.

DEIRDRE--(Slowly)  What did you say of the Lights of Valor?  That--
they--were dead?

[NAISI, AINLE, and ARDAN re-enter.  DEIRDRE clings to NAISI.]

NAISI--My gentle one, do not look so pale nor wound me with those
terror-stricken eyes.  Those base slaves are all fled.  Truly
Concobar is a mighty king without the Red Branch!

LAVARCAM--Oh, do not linger here.  Bear Deirdre away while there
is time.  You can escape through the city in the silence of the night.
The king has called for his Druids;  soon the magic of Cathvah will
enfold you, and your strength will be all withered away.

NAISI--I will not leave Emain Macha until the head of this false
king is apart from his shoulders.  A spear can pass as swiftly
through his Druid as through one of his slaves.  Oh, Cathvah, the
old mumbler of spells and of false prophecies, who caused Deirdre
to be taken from her mother's breast!  Truly, I owe a deep debt to
Cathvah, and I Will repay it.

LAVARCAM--If you love Deirdre, do not let pride and wrath stay your
flight.  You have but an instant to fly.  You can return with Fergus
and a host of warriors in the dawn.  You do not know the power of
Cathvah.  Surely, if you do not depart, Deirdre will fall into the
king's hands, and it were better she had died in her mother's womb.

DEIRDRE--Naisi, let us leave this house of death.  [The sound of
footsteps without]

LAVARCAM--It is too late!

[AINLE and ARDAN start to the door, but are stayed at the sound of
CATHVAH'S voice.  DEIRDRE clings to NAISI.  CATHVAH (chanting without)]

Let the Faed Fia fall;
Mananaun Mac Lir.
Take back the day
Amid days unremembered.
Over the warring mind
Let thy Faed Fia fall,
Mananaun Mac Lir!

NAISI--Why dost thou weep, Deirdre, and cling to me so?  The sea
is calm.  Tomorrow we will rest safely at Emain Macha with the
great Ardrie, who has forgiven all.

LAVARCAM--The darkness is upon his mind.  Oh, poor Deirdre!

CATHVAH  (without)--

     Let thy waves rise,
     Mananaun Mac Lir.
     Let the earth fail
     Beneath their feet,
     Let thy Waves flow over them,
     Mananaun: Lord of ocean!

NAISI--Our galley is sinking--and no land in sight!  I did not
think the end would come so soon.  O pale love, take courage.  Is
death so bitter to thee?  We shall go down in each other's arms;
our hearts shall beat out their love together, and the last of life
we shall know will be our kisses on each other's lips.  (AINLE and
ARDAN stagger outside. There is a sound of blows and a low cry.)
Ainle and Ardan have sunk in the waters!  We are alone.  Still
weeping!  My bird, my bird, soon we shall fly together to the
bright kingdom in the West, to Hy Brazil, amid the opal seas.

DEIRDRE--Naisi, Naisi, shake off the magic dream.  It is here in
Emain Macha we are.  There are no waters.  The spell of the Druid
and his terrible chant have made a mist about your eyes.

NAISI--Her mind is wandering.  She is distraught with terror of
the king.  There, rest your head on my heart.  Hush!  hush!  The
waters are flowing upward swiftly.  Soon, when all is over, you
will laugh at your terror.  The great Ardrie will sorrow over
our death.

DEIRDRE--I cannot speak.  Lavarcam, can you not break the enchantment?

LAVARCAM--My limbs are fixed here by the spell.

NAISI--There was music a while ago.  The swans of Lir, with their
slow, sweet faery singing.  There never was a sadder tale than theirs.
They must roam for ages, driven on the sea of Moyle, while we shall
go hand in hand through the country of immortal youth.  And there
is Mananaun, the dark blue king, who looks at us with a smile of
welcome.   Ildathach is lit up with its shining mountains, and the
golden phantoms are leaping there in the dawn!  There is a path
made for us!  Come, Deirdre, the god has made for us an island on
the sea.  (NAISI goes through the door, and falls back, smitten by
a spear-thrust.)  The Druid Cathvah!--The king!--O Deirdre!  [He dies.
DEIRDRE bends over the body, taking the hands in hers.]

LAVARCAM--O gentle heart, thy wounds will be more bitter than his.
Speak but a word.  That silent sorrow will kill thee and me.  My
darling, it was fate, and I was not to blame.  Come, it will comfort
thee to weep beside my breast.  Leave the dead for vengeance, for
heavy is the vengeance that shall fall on this ruthless king.

DEIRDRE--I do not fear Concobar any more.  My spirit is sinking
away from the world, I could not stay after Naisi.  After the Lights
of Valor had vanished, how could I remain?  The earth has grown dim
and old, fostermother.  The gods have gone far away, and the lights
from the mountains and the Lions of the Flaming Heart are still, O
fostermother, when they heap the cairn over him, let me be beside
him in the narrow grave.  I will still be with the noble one.

[DEIRDRE lays her head on NAISI's body.  CONCOBAR enters, standing
in the doorway.  LAVARCAM takes DEIRDRE'S hand and drops it.]

LAVARCAM--Did you come to torture her with your presence?  Was not
the death of Naisi cruelty enough?  But now she is past your power
to wound.

CONCOBAR--The death of Naisi was only the fulfilling of the law.
Ulla could not hold together if its ancient laws were set aside.

LAVARCAM--Do you think to bind men together when you have broken
their hearts?  O fool, who would conquer all Eri!  I see the Red
Branch scattered and Eri rent asunder, and thy memory a curse after
many thousand years.  The gods have overthrown thy dominion, proud
king, with the last sigh from this dead child;  and out of the
pity for her they will build up an eternal kingdom in the spirit
of man.  [An uproar without and the clash of arms.]

VOICES--Fergus!  Fergus!  Fergus!

LAVARCAM--The avenger has come!  So perishes the Red Branch!  [She
hurries out wildly.]

CONCOBAR--(Slowly, after a pause)  I have two divided kingdoms, and
one is in my own heart.  Thus do I pay homage to thee, O Queen, who
will rule, being dead.  [He bends over the body of DEIRDRE and
kisses her hand.]

FERGUS--(without)  Where is the traitor Ardrie?

[CONCOBAR starts up, lifting his spear.  FERGUS appears at the
doorway, and the scene closes.]

1901





NOTE TO THOUGHTS FOR A CONVENTION


I was asked to put into shape for publication ideas and suggestions
for an Irish settlement which had been discussed among a group whose
members represented ah extremes in Irish opinion.  The compromise
arrived at was embodied in documents written by members of the group
privately circulated, criticized and again amended.  I make special
acknowledgments to Colonel Maurice Moore, Mr. James G. Douglas, Mr.
Edward E. Lysaght, Mr. Joseph Johnston, F.T.C.D., Mr. Alec Wilson
and Mr. Diarmuid Coffey.  For the tone, method of presentation,
and general arguments used, I alone am responsible.  And if any are
offended at what I have said, I am to be blamed,  not my fellow-workers.

The author desires to make acknowledgment to The Times for permission
to include an article on "The Spiritual Conflict."

---------------------------------------------