  There are women so terribly free from all evil,
  They discourage a man, and he goes to the devil.
  There are people whose virtues result in appalling,
  And they prove a great aid to his majesty's calling.

  Roger's wife rendered goodness so dreary and cold,
  His tendril-like will lost its poor little hold
  On the new better life he was longing to reach,
  And slipped back to the dust.  Oh! to love, not to preach.
  Is a woman's true method of helping mankind.
  The sinner is won through his heart, not his mind.
  As the sun loves the seed up to life through the sod,
  So the patience of love brings a soul to its God.
  But when love is lacking, the devil is sure
  To stand in the pathway with some sort of lure.
  Roger turned to the world for distraction.  The world
  Smiled a welcome, and then like an octopus curled
  All its tentacles 'round him, and dragged him away
  Into deep, troubled waters.

                One late summer day
  He awoke with a headache, which will not surprise,
  When you know that his bedtime had been at sunrise,
  And that gay Narraganset, the world renowned "Pier,"
  Was the scene.  Through the lace curtained window the clear
  Yellow rays of the hot August sun touched his bed
  And proclaimed it was mid-day.  He rose, and his head
  Seemed as large and as light as an air filled balloon
  While his limbs were like lead.

                In the glare of the noon,
  The follies of night show their makeup, and seem
  Like hideous monsters evoked by some dream.

  The sea called to Roger: "Come, lie on my breast
  And forget the dull world.  My unrest shall give rest
  To your turbulent feelings; the dregs of the wine
  On your lips shall be lost in the salt touch of mine.
  Come away, come away.  Ah! the jubilant mirth
  Of the sea is not known by the stupid old earth."

  The beach swarmed with bathers--to be more exact,
  Swarmed with people in costumes of bathers.  In fact,
  Many beautiful women bathed but in the light
  Of men's eyes; and their costumes were made for the sight,
  Not the sea.  From the sea's lusty outreaching arms
  They escaped with shrill shrieks, while the men viewed their charms
  And made mental notes of them.  Yet, at this hour,
  The waves, too, were swelling sea meadows, a-flower
  With faces of swimmers.  All dressed for his bath,
  Roger paused in confusion, because in his path
  Surged a crowd of the curious; all eyes were bent
  On the form of a woman who leisurely went
  From her bathing house down to the beach.  "There she goes,"
  Roger heard a dame cry, as she stepped on his toes
  With her whole ample weight.  "What, the one with red hair?
  Why, she isn't as pretty as Maude, I declare."
  A man passing by with his comrade, cried: "Ned,
  Look! there is La Travers, the one with the red
  Braid of hair to her knees.  She's a mystery here,
  And at present the topic of talk at the Pier."
  Roger followed their glances in time to behold
  For a second a head crowned with braids of bright gold,
  And a form like a Venus, all costumed in white.
  Then she plunged through a billow and vanished from sight.

  It was half an hour afterward, possibly more,
  As Roger swam farther and farther from shore,
  With new life in his limbs and new force in his brain,
  That he heard, just behind him, a sharp cry of pain.
  Ten strokes in the rear on the crest of a wave
  Shone a woman's white face.  "Keep your courage; be brave;
  I am coming," he shouted.  "Turn over and float."
  His strong shoulder plunged like the prow of a boat
  Through the billows.  Six overhand strokes brought him close
  To the woman, who lay like a wilted white rose
  On the waves.  "Now, be careful," he cried; "lay your hand
  Well up on my shoulder; my arms, understand,
  Must be free; do not touch them---please follow my wishes,
  Unless you are anxious to fatten the fishes."
  The woman obeyed him.  "You need not fear me,"
  She replied, "I am wholly at home in the sea.
  I knew all the arts of the swimmer, I thought,
  But confess I was frightened when suddenly caught
  With a cramp in my knee at this distance from shore."
  With slow even breast strokes the strong swimmer bore
  His fair burden landward.  She lay on the billows
  As lightly as if she were resting on pillows
  Of down.  She relinquished herself to the sea
  And the man, and was saved; though God knows both can be
  False and fickle enough; yet resistance or strife,
  On occasions like this, means the forfeit of life.
  The throng of the bathers had scattered before
  Roger carried his burden safe into the shore
  And saw her emerge from the water, a place
  Where most women lose every vestige of grace
  Or of charm.  But this mermaid seemed fairer than when
  She had challenged the glances of women and men
  As she went to her bath.  Now her clinging silk suit
  Revealed every line, from the throat to the foot,
  Of her beautiful form.  Her arms, in their splendor,
  Gleamed white like wet marble.  The round waist was slender,
  And yet not too small.  From the twin perfect crests
  And the virginlike grace of her beautiful breasts
  To the exquisite limbs and the curve of her thigh,
  And the arch of her proud little instep, the eye
  Drank in beauty.  Her face was not beautiful; yet
  The gaze lingered on it, for Eros had set
  His seal on her features.  The mouth full and weak,
  The blue shadow drooping from eyelid to cheek
  Like a stain of crushed grapes, and the pale, ardent skin,
  All spoke of volcanic emotions within.

  By her tip tilted nose and low brow, it was plain
  To read how her impulses ruled o'er her brain.
  She had given the chief role of life to her heart,
  And her intellect played but a small minor part.
  Her eyes were the color the sunlight reveals
  When it pierces the soft, furry coat of young seals.
  The thickly fringed lids seemed unwilling to rise,
  But drooped, half concealing them; wonderful eyes,
  Full of secrets and bodings of sorrow.  As coarse
  And as thick as the mane of a finely groomed horse
  Was her bright mass of hair.  The sea, with rough hands,
  Had made free with the braids, and unloosened the strands
  Till they hung in great clusters of curls to her knees.
  Her voice, when she spoke, held the breadth and the breeze
  Of the West in its tones; and the use of the _R_
  Made the listener certain her home had been far
  From New England.  Long after she vanished from view
  The eye and the ear seemed to sense her anew.
  There was that in her voice and her presence which hung
  In the air like a strain of a song which is sung
  By a singer, and then sings itself the whole day,
  And will hot be silenced.

                As birds flock away
  From meadow to tree branch, now there and now here,
  So, from beach to Casino, each day at the Pier
  Flock the gay pleasure seekers.  The balconies glow
  With beauty and color.  The belle and the beau
  Promenade in the sunlight, or sit tete-a-tete,
  While the chaperons gossip together.  Bands play,
  Glasses clink; and 'neath sheltering lace parasols
  There are plans made for meeting at drives or at balls.

  Roger gat at a table alone, with his glass
  Of mint julep before him, and watched the crowd pass.
  There were all sorts of people from all sorts of places.
  He thought he liked best the fair Baltimore faces.
  The South was the land of fair women, he mused,
  Because they were indolent.  Women who used
  Mind or body too freely.  Changed curves into angles,
  For beauty forever with intellect wrangles.
  The trend of the fair sex to-day must alarm
  Every lover of feminine beauty and charm.

