Produced by Dagny; John Bickers


SIR FRANCIS DRAKE'S FAMOUS VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD


Narrative By Francis Pretty,

One Of Drake's Gentlemen At Arms.


     PREPARER'S NOTE
     This text was prepared from a 1910 edition, published by P F
     Collier & Son Company, New York.


     The FAMOUS VOYAGE of Sir FRANCIS DRAKE into the South Sea, and
     therehence about the whole Globe of the Earth, begun in the year
     of our Lord 1577.


The 15th day of November, in the year of our Lord 1577, Master Francis
Drake, with a fleet of five ships and barks, and to the number of 164
men, gentlemen and sailors, departed from Plymouth, giving out his
pretended voyage for Alexandria. But the wind falling contrary, he was
forced the next morning to put into Falmouth Haven, in Cornwall, where
such and so terrible a tempest took us, as few men have seen the like,
and was indeed so vehement that all our ships were like to have gone
to wrack. But it pleased God to preserve us from that extremity and to
afflict us only for that present with these two particulars: the mast of
our Admiral, which was the Pelican, was cut overboard for the safeguard
of the ship, and the Marigold was driven ashore, and somewhat bruised.
For the repairing of which damages we returned again to Plymouth; and
having recovered those harms, and brought the ships again to good state,
we set forth the second time from Plymouth, and set sail the 13th day of
December following.

The 25th day of the same month we fell with the Cape Cantin, upon the
coast of Barbary; and coasting along, the 27th day we found an island
called Mogador, lying one mile distant from the main. Between which
island and the main we found a very good and safe harbour for our ships
to ride in, as also very good entrance, and void of any danger. On this
island our General erected a pinnace, whereof he brought out of England
with him four already framed. While these things were in doing, there
came to the water's side some of the inhabitants of the country, shewing
forth their flags of truce; which being seen of our General, he sent his
ship's boat to the shore to know what they would. They being willing to
come aboard, our men left there one man of our company for a pledge, and
brought two of theirs aboard our ship; which by signs shewed our General
that the next day they would bring some provision, as sheep, capons, and
hens, and such like. Whereupon our General bestowed amongst them some
linen cloth and shoes, and a javelin, which they very joyfully received,
and departed for that time. The next morning they failed not to come
again to the water's side. And our General again setting out our boat,
one of our men leaping over-rashly ashore, and offering friendly to
embrace them, they set violent hands on him, offering a dagger to his
throat if he had made any resistance; and so laying him on a horse
carried him away. So that a man cannot be too circumspect and wary of
himself among such miscreants. Our pinnace being finished, we departed
from this place the 30th and last day of December, and coasting along
the shore we did descry, not contrary to our expectation, certain
_canters_, which were Spanish fishermen; to whom we gave chase and took
three of them. And proceeding further we met with three carvels, and
took them also.

The 17th day of January we arrived at Cape Blanco, where we found a ship
riding at anchor, within the Cape, and but two simple mariners in her.
Which ship we took and carried her further into the harbour, where we
remained four days; and in that space our General mustered and trained
his men on land in warlike manner, to make them fit for all occasions.
In this place we took of the fishermen such necessaries as we wanted,
and they could yield us; and leaving here one of our little barks,
called the Benedict, we took with us one of theirs which they called
_canters_, being of the burden of 40 tons or thereabouts. All these
things being finished we departed this harbour the 22nd of January,
carrying along with us one of the Portugal carvels, which was bound to
the islands of Cape Verde for salt, whereof good store is made in one
of those islands. The master or pilot of that carvel did advertise our
General that upon one of those islands, called Mayo, there was great
store of dried _cabritos_ (goats), which a few inhabitants there
dwelling did yearly make ready for such of the king's ships as did there
touch, being bound for his country of Brazil or elsewhere. We fell with
this island the 27th of January, but the inhabitants would in no case
traffic with us, being thereof forbidden by the king's edict. Yet the
next day our General sent to view the island, and the likelihoods that
might be there of the provision of victuals, about threescore and
two men under the conduct and government of Master Winter and Master
Doughty. And marching towards the chief place of habitation in this
island (as by the Portugal we were informed), having travelled to the
mountains the space of three miles, and arriving there somewhat before
the daybreak, we arrested ourselves, to see day before us. Which
appearing, we found the inhabitants to be fled; but the place, by reason
that it was manured, we found to be more fruitful than the other part,
especially the valleys among the hills.

Here we gave ourselves a little refreshing, as by very ripe and sweet
grapes, which the fruitfulness of the earth at that season of winter,
it may seems strange that those fruits were then there growing. But the
reason thereof is this, because they being between the tropic and the
equinoctial, the sun passeth twice in the year through their zenith over
their heads, by means whereof they have two summers; and being so near
the heat of the line they never lose the heat of the sun so much, but
the fruits have their increase and continuance in the midst of winter.
The island is wonderfully stored with goats and wild hens; and it hath
salt also, without labour, save only that the people gather it into
heaps; which continually in greater quantity is increased upon the sands
by the flowing of the sea, and the receiving heat of the sun kerning the
same. So that of the increase thereof they keep a continual traffic with
their neighbours.

Amongst other things we found here a kind of fruit called _cocos_, which
because it is not commonly known with us in England, I thought good to
make some description of it. The tree beareth no leaves nor branches,
but at the very top the fruit groweth in clusters, hard at the top of
the stem of the tree, as big every several fruit as a man's head; but
having taken off the uttermost bark, which you shall find to be very
full of strings or sinews, as I may term them, you shall come to a hard
shell, which may hold a quantity of liquor a pint commonly, or some
a quart, and some less. Within that shell, of the thickness of
half-an-inch good, you shall have a kind of hard substance and very
white, no less good and sweet than almonds; within that again, a certain
clear liquor which being drunk, you shall not only find it very delicate
and sweet, but most comfortable and cordial.

After we had satisfied ourselves with some of these fruits, we marched
further into the island, and saw great store of _cabritos_ alive, which
were so chased by the inhabitants that we could do no good towards our
provision; but they had laid out, as it were to stop our mouths withal,
certain old dried _cabritos_, which being but ill, and small and few,
we made no account of. Being returned to our ships, our General departed
hence the 31st of this month, and sailed by the island of Santiago, but
far enough from the danger of the inhabitants, who shot and discharged
at us three pieces; but they all fell short of us, and did us no harm.
The island is fair and large, and, as it seemeth, rich and fruitful,
and inhabited by the Portugals; but the mountains and high places of the
island are said to be possessed by the Moors, who having been slaves to
the Portugals, to ease themselves, made escape to the desert places
of the island, where they abide with great strength. Being before this
island, we espied two ships under sail, to the one of which we gave
chase, and in the end boarded her with a ship-boat without resistance;
which we found to be a good prize, and she yielded unto us good store
of wine. Which prize our General committed to the custody of Master
Doughty; and retaining the pilot, sent the rest away with his pinnace,
giving them a butt of wine and some victuals, and their wearing clothes,
and so they departed. The same night we came with the island called by
the Portugals _Ilha do Fogo_, that is, the burning island; in the north
side whereof is a consuming fire. The matter is said to be of sulphur,
but, notwithstanding, it is like to be a commodious island, because the
Portugals have built, and do inhabit there. Upon the south side thereof
lieth a most pleasant and sweet island, the trees whereof are always
green and fair to look upon; in respect whereof they call it _Ilha
Brava_, that is, the brave island. From the banks thereof into the sea
do run in many places reasonable streams of fresh water easy to come by,
but there was no convenient road for our ships; for such was the depth
that no ground could be had for anchoring. And it is reported that
ground was never found in that place; so that the tops of _Fogo_ burn
not so high in the air, but the roots of _Brava_ are quenched as low in
the sea.

Being departed from these islands, we drew towards the line, where we
were becalmed the space of three weeks, but yet subject to divers great
storms, terrible lightnings and much thunder. But with this misery we
had the commodity of great store of fish, as dolphins, bonitos, and
flying-fishes, whereof some fell into our ships; wherehence they could
not rise again for want of moisture, for when their wings are dry they
cannot fly.

From the first day of our departure from the islands of Cape Verde, we
sailed 54 days without sight of land. And the first land that we fell
with was the coast of Brazil, which we saw the fifth of April, in the
height of 33 degrees towards the pole Antarctic. And being discovered
at sea by the inhabitants of the country, they made upon the coast great
fires for a sacrifice (as we learned) to the devils; about which they
use conjurations, making heaps of sand, and other ceremonies, that when
any ship shall go about to stay upon their coast, not only sands may
be gathered together in shoals in every place, but also that storms and
tempests may arise, to the casting away of ships and men, whereof, as it
is reported, there have been divers experiments.

The 7th day in a mighty great storm, both of lightning, rain, and
thunder, we lost the canter, which we called the Christopher. But the
eleventh day after, by our General's great care in dispersing his ships,
we found her again, and the place where we met our General called the
Cape of Joy, where every ship took in some water. Here we found a good
temperature and sweet air, a very fair and pleasant country with an
exceeding fruitful soil, where were great store of large and mighty
deer, but we came not to the sight of any people; but travelling further
into the country we perceived the footing of people in the clay ground,
shewing that they were men of great stature. Being returned to our ships
we weighed anchor, and ran somewhat further, and harboured ourselves
between the rock and the main; where by means of the rock that brake the
force of the sea, we rid very safe. And upon this rock we killed for our
provision certain sea-wolves, commonly called with us seals. From hence
we went our course to 36 degrees, and entered the great river of Plate,
and ran into 54 and 53 1/2 fathoms of fresh water, where we filled
our water by the ship's side; but our General finding here no good
harborough, as he thought he should, bare out again to sea the 27th of
April, and in bearing out we lost sight of our fly-boat wherein Master
Doughty was. But we, sailing along, found a fair and reasonable good
bay, wherein were many and the same profitable islands; one whereof had
so many seals as would at the least have laden all our ships, and
the rest of the islands are, as it were, laden with fowls, which is
wonderful to see, and they of divers sorts. It is a place very plentiful
of victuals, and hath in it no want of fresh water. Our General, after
certain days of his abode in this place, being on shore in an island,
the people of the country shewed themselves unto him, leaping and
dancing, and entered into traffic with him, but they would not receive
anything at any man's hands, but the same must be cast upon the ground.
They are of clean, comely, and strong bodies, swift on foot, and seem to
be very active.

The 18th of May, our General thought it needful to have a care of such
ships as were absent; and therefore endeavouring to seek the fly-boat
wherein Master Doughty was, we espied her again the next day. And
whereas certain of our ships were sent to discover the coast and to
search an harbour, the Marigold and the canter being employed in that
business, came unto us and gave us understanding of a safe harbour that
they had found. Wherewith all our ships bare, and entered it; where we
watered and made new provision of victuals, as by seals, whereof we slew
to the number of 200 or 300 in the space of an hour. Here our General in
the Admiral rid close aboard the fly-boat, and took out of her all the
provision of victuals and what else was in her, and hauling her to the
land, set fire to her, and so burnt her to save the iron work. Which
being a-doing, there came down of the country certain of the people
naked, saving only about their waist the skin of some beast, with the
fur or hair on, and something also wreathed on their heads. Their faces
were painted with divers colours, and some of them had on their heads
the similitude of horns, every man his bow, which was an ell in length,
and a couple of arrows. They were very agile people and quick to
deliver, and seemed not to be ignorant in the feats of wars, as by their
order of ranging a few men might appear. These people would not of a
long time receive anything at our hands; yet at length our General being
ashore, and they dancing after their accustomed manner about him, and he
once turning his back towards them, one leaped suddenly to him, and took
his cap with his gold band off his head, and ran a little distance from
him, and shared it with his fellow, the cap to one and the band to the
other. Having despatched all our business in this place, we departed
and set sail. And immediately upon our setting forth we lost our canter,
which was absent three or four days; but when our General had her again,
he took out the necessaries, and so gave her over, near to the Cape
of Good Hope. The next day after, being the 20th of June, we harboured
ourselves again in a very good harborough, called by Magellan, Port
St. Julian, where we found a gibbet standing upon the main; which we
supposed to be the place where Magellan did execution upon some of his
disobedient and rebellious company.

The two and twentieth day our General went ashore to the main, and in
his company John Thomas, and Robert Winterhie, Oliver the master-gunner,
John Brewer, Thomas Hood, and Thomas Drake. And entering on land,
they presently met with two or three of the country people. And Robert
Winterhie having in his hands a bow and arrows, went about to make a
shoot of pleasure, and, in his draught, his bowstring brake; which the
rude savages taking as a token of war, began to bend the force of their
bows against our company, and drove them to their shifts very narrowly.

In this port our General began to enquire diligently of the actions of
Master Thomas Doughty, and found them not to be such as he looked for,
but tending rather of contention or mutiny, or some other disorder,
whereby, without redress, the success of the voyage might greatly
have been hazarded. Whereupon the company was called together and made
acquainted with the particulars of the cause, which were found, partly
by Master Doughty's own confession, and partly by the evidence of the
fact, to be true. Which when our General saw, although his private
affection to Master Doughty, as he then in the presence of us all
sacredly protested, was great, yet the care he had of the state of the
voyage, of the expectation of her Majesty, and of the honour of his
country did more touch him, as indeed it ought, than the private respect
of one man. So that the cause being thoroughly heard, and all things
done in good order as near as might be to the course of our laws in
England, it was concluded that Master Doughty should receive punishment
according to the quality of the offence. And he, seeing no remedy but
patience for himself, desired before his death to receive the communion,
which he did at the hands of Master Fletcher, our minister, and our
General himself accompanied him in that holy action. Which being done,
and the place of execution made ready, he having embraced our General,
and taken his leave of all the company, with prayers for the Queen's
Majesty and our realm, in quiet sort laid his head to the block, where
he ended his life. This being done, our General made divers speeches to
the whole company, persuading us to unity, obedience, love, and regard
of our voyage; and for the better confirmation thereof, willed every
many in the next Sunday following to prepare himself to the communion,
as Christian brethren and friends ought to do. Which was done in very
reverent sort; and so with good contentment every man went about his
business.

The 17th of August we departed the port of St. Julian, and the 20th day
we fell with the Strait of Magellan, going into the South Sea; at the
cape or headland whereof we found the body of a dead man, whose flesh
was clean consumed. The 21st day we entered the Strait, which we found
to have many turnings, and as it were shuttings-up, as if there were no
passage at all. By means whereof we had the wind often against us; so
that some of the fleet recovering a cape or point of land, others should
be forced to turn back again, and to come to an anchor where they could.
In this Strait there be many fair harbours, with store of fresh water.
But yet they lack their best commodity, for the water there is of such
depth, that no man shall find ground to anchor in except it be in some
narrow river or corner, or between some rocks; so that if any extreme
blasts or contrary winds do come, whereunto the place is much subject,
it carrieth with it no small danger. The land on both sides is very huge
and mountainous; the lower mountains whereof, although they be monstrous
and wonderful to look upon for their height, yet there are others which
in height exceed them in a strange manner, reaching themselves above
their fellows so high, that between them did appear three regions of
clouds. These mountains are covered with snow. At both the southerly and
easterly parts of the Strait there are islands, among which the sea hath
his indraught into the Straits, even as it hath in the main entrance of
the frete. This Strait is extreme cold, with frost and snow continually;
the trees seem to stoop with the burden of the weather, and yet are
green continually, and many good and sweet herbs do very plentifully
grow and increase under them. The breadth of the Strait is in some
places a league, in some other places two leagues and three leagues, and
in some other four leagues; but the narrowest place hath a league over.

The 24th of August we arrived at an island in the Straits, where we
found great store of fowl which could not fly, of the bigness of geese;
whereof we killed in less than one day 3,000, and victualled ourselves
thoroughly therewith. The 6th day of September we entered the South Sea
at the cape or head shore. The 7th day we were driven by a great storm
from the entering into the South Sea, 200 leagues and odd in longitude,
and one degree to the southward of the Strait; in which height, and so
many leagues to the westward, the 15th day of September, fell out
the eclipse of the moon at the hour of six of the clock at night. But
neither did the ecliptical conflict of the moon impair our state, nor
her clearing again amend us a whit; but the accustomed eclipse of
the sea continued in his force, we being darkened more than the moon
sevenfold.[*]

     [*] In this storm the Marigold went down with all hands.

From the bay which we called the Bay of Severing of Friends, we were
driven back to the southward of the Straits in 57 degrees and a tierce;
in which height we came to an anchor among the islands, having there
fresh and very good water, with herbs of singular virtue. Not far from
hence we entered another bay, where we found people, both men and women,
in their canoes naked, and ranging from one island to another to seek
their meat; who entered traffic with us for such things as they had.
We returning hence northward again, found the third of October three
islands, in one of which was such plenty of birds as is scant
credible to report. The 8th day of October we lost sight of one of our
consorts,[*] wherein Master Winter was; who, as then we supposed, was
put by a storm into the Straits again. Which at our return home we found
to be true, and he not perished, as some of our company feared. Thus
being come into the height of the Straits again, we ran, supposing the
coast of Chili to lie as the general maps have described it, namely
north-west; which we found to lie and trend to the north-east and
eastwards. Whereby it appeareth that this part of Chili hath not been
truly hitherto discovered, or at the least not truly reported, for the
space of twelve degrees at the least; being set down either of purpose
to deceive, or of ignorant conjecture.

     [*] The Elizabeth. Winter, having slight of the Admiral,
     sailed home. The Golden Hind was thus left to pursue her
     voyage alone.

We continuing our course, fell the 29th of November with an island
called La Mocha, where we cast anchor; and our General, hoisting out our
boat, went with ten of our company to shore. Where we found people whom
the cruel and extreme dealings of the Spaniards have forced, for their
own safety and liberty, to flee from the main, and to fortify themselves
in this island. We being on land, the people came down to us to the
water side with show of great courtesy, bringing to us potatoes, roots,
and two very fat sheep; which our General received, and gave them other
things for them, and had promised to have water there. But the next day
repairing again to the shore, and sending two men a-land with barrels
to fill water, the people taking them for Spaniards (to whom they use to
show no favour if they take them) laid violent hands on them, and, as we
think, slew them. Our General seeing this, stayed there no longer, but
weighed anchor, and set sail towards the coast of Chili. And drawing
towards it, we met near the shore an Indian in a _canoa_, who thinking
us to have been Spaniards, came to us and told us, that at a place
called Santiago, there was a great Spanish ship laden from the kingdom
of Peru; for which good news our General gave him divers trifles.
Whereof he was glad, and went along with us and brought us to the place,
which is called the port of Valparaiso. When we came thither we found,
indeed, the ship riding at anchor, having in her eight Spaniards and
three negroes; who, thinking us to have been Spaniards, and their
friends, welcomed us with a drum, and made ready a _botija_ of wine of
Chili to drink to us. But as soon as we were entered, one of our
company called Thomas Moon began to lay about him, and struck one of the
Spaniards, and said unto him, _Abaxo perro!_ that is in English, 'Go
down, dog!' One of these Spaniards, seeing persons of that quality in
those seas, crossed and blessed himself. But, to be short, we stowed
them under hatches, all save one Spaniard, who suddenly and desperately
leapt overboard into the sea, and swam ashore to the town of Santiago,
to give them warning of our arrival.

They of the town, being not above nine households, presently fled away
and abandoned the town. Our General manned his boat and the Spanish
ship's boat, and went to the town; and, being come to it, we rifled it,
and came to a small chapel, which we entered, and found therein a silver
chalice, two cruets, and one altar-cloth, the spoil whereof our General
gave to Master Fletcher, his minister. We found also in this town a
warehouse stored with wine of Chili and many boards of cedar-wood; all
which wine we brought away with us, and certain of the boards to burn
for firewood. And so, being come aboard, we departed the haven, having
first set all the Spaniards on land, saving one John Griego, a Greek
born, whom our General carried with him as pilot to bring him into the
haven of Lima.

When we were at sea our General rifled the ship, and found in her good
store of the wine of Chili, and 25,000 pesos of very pure and fine gold
of Valdivia, amounting in value to 37,000 ducats of Spanish money,
and above. So, going on our course, we arrived next at a place called
Coquimbo, where our General sent fourteen of his men on land to fetch
water. But they were espied by the Spaniards, who came with 300 horsemen
and 200 footmen, and slew one of our men with a piece. The rest came
aboard in safety, and the Spaniards departed. We went on shore again and
buried our man, and the Spaniards came down again with a flag of truce;
but we set sail, and would not trust them. From hence we went to a
certain port called Tarapaca; where, being landed, we found by the sea
side a Spaniard lying asleep, who had lying by him thirteen bars of
silver, which weighed 4,000 ducats Spanish. We took the silver and left
the man. Not far from hence, going on land for fresh water, we met with
a Spaniard and an Indian boy driving eight llamas or sheep of Peru,
which are as big as asses; every of which sheep had on his back two bags
of leather, each bag containing 50 lb. weight of fine silver. So that,
bringing both the sheep and their burthen to the ships, we found in all
the bags eight hundred weight of silver.

Herehence we sailed to a place called Arica; and, being entered the
port, we found there three small barks, which we rifled, and found in
one of them fifty-seven wedges of silver, each of them weighing about 20
lb. weight, and every of these wedges were of the fashion and bigness of
a brickbat. In all these three barks, we found not one person. For
they, mistrusting no strangers, were all gone a-land to the town, which
consisteth of about twenty houses; which we would have ransacked if our
company had been better and more in number. But our General, contented
with the spoil of the ships, left the town and put off again to sea,
and set sail for Lima, and, by the way, met with a small bark, which he
boarded, and found in her good store of linen cloth. Whereof taking some
quantity, he let her go.

To Lima we came the 13th of February; and, being entered the haven, we
found there about twelve sail of ships lying fast moored at an anchor,
having all their sails carried on shore; for the masters and merchants
were here most secure, having never been assaulted by enemies, and
at this time feared the approach of none such as we were. Our General
rifled these ships, and found in one of them a chest full of reals of
plate, and good store of silks and linen cloth; and took the chest into
his own ship, and good store of the silks and linen. In which ship he
had news of another ship called the Cacafuego, which was gone towards
Payta, and that the same ship was laden with treasure. Whereupon we
stayed no longer here, but, cutting all the cables of the ships in the
haven, we let them drive wither they would, either to sea or to the
shore; and with all speed we followed the Cacafuego toward Payta,
thinking there to have found her. But before we arrived there she was
gone from thence towards Panama; whom our General still pursued, and by
the way met with a bark laden with ropes and tackle for ships, which
he boarded and searched, and found in her 80 lb. weight of gold, and a
crucifix of gold with goodly great emeralds set in it, which he took,
and some of the cordage also for his own ship. From hence we departed,
still following the Cacafuego; and our General promised our company that
whosoever should first descry her should have his chain of gold for his
good news. It fortuned that John Drake, going up into the top, descried
her about three of the clock. And about six of the clock we came to her
and boarded her, and shot at her three pieces of ordnance, and strake
down her mizen; and, being entered, we found in her great riches, as
jewels and precious stones, thirteen chests full of reals of plate,
fourscore pound weight of gold, and six-and-twenty ton of silver. The
place where we took this prize was called Cape de San Francisco, about
150 leagues [south] from Panama. The pilot's name of this ship was
Francisco; and amongst other plate that our General found in this ship
he found two very fair gilt bowls of silver, which were the pilot's. To
whom our General said, _Senor Pilot, you have here two silver cups, but
I must needs have one of them_; which the pilot, because he could not
otherwise choose, yielded unto, and gave the other to the steward of our
General's ship. When this pilot departed from us, his boy said thus unto
our General: _Captain, our ship shall be called no more the Cacafuego,
but the Cacaplata, and your ship shall be called the Cacafuego_. Which
pretty speech of the pilot's boy ministered matter of laughter to us,
both then and long after. When our General had done what he would with
this Cacafuego, he cast her off, and we went on our course still towards
the west; and not long after met with a ship laden with linen cloth and
fine China dishes of white earth, and great store of China silks, of all
which things we took as we listed. The owner himself of this ship was in
her, who was a Spanish gentleman, from whom our General took a falcon of
gold, with a great emerald in the breast thereof; and the pilot of the
ship he took also with him, and so cast the ship off.

This pilot brought us to the haven of Guatulco, the town whereof, as
he told us, had but 17 Spaniards in it. As soon as we were entered this
haven, we landed, and went presently to the town and to the town-house;
where we found a judge sitting in judgment, being associated with three
other officers, upon three negroes that had conspired the burning of
the town. Both which judges and prisoners we took, and brought them
a-shipboard, and caused the chief judge to write his letter to the town
to command all the townsmen to avoid, that we might safely water there.
Which being done, and they departed, we ransacked the town; and in one
house we found a pot, of the quantity of a bushel, full of reals of
plate, which we brought to our ship. And here one Thomas Moon, one of
our company, took a Spanish gentleman as he was flying out of the
town; and, searching him, he found a chain of gold about him, and other
jewels, which he took, and so let him go. At this place our General,
among other Spaniards, set ashore his Portugal pilot which he took at
the islands of Cape Verde out of a ship of St. Mary port, of Portugal.
And having set them ashore we departed hence, and sailed to the island
of Canno; where our General landed, and brought to shore his own ship,
and discharged her, mended and graved her, and furnished our ship with
water and wood sufficiently.

And while we were here we espied a ship and set sail after her, and took
her, and found in her two pilots and a Spanish governor, going for the
islands of the Philippinas. We searched the ship, and took some of her
merchandises, and so let her go. Our General at this place and time,
thinking himself, both in respect of his private injuries received from
the Spaniards, as also of their contempts and indignities offered to our
country and prince in general, sufficiently satisfied and revenged; and
supposing that her Majesty at his return would rest contented with this
service, purposed to continue no longer upon the Spanish coast, but
began to consider and to consult of the best way for his country.

He thought it not good to return by the Straits, for two special causes;
the one, lest the Spaniards should there wait and attend for him in
great number and strength, whose hands, he, being left but one ship,
could not possibly escape. The other cause was the dangerous situation
of the mouth of the Straits in the South Sea; where continual storms
reigning and blustering, as he found by experience, besides the shoals
and sands upon the coast, he thought it not a good course to adventure
that way. He resolved, therefore, to avoid these hazards, to go forward
to the Islands of the Malucos, and therehence to sail the course of the
Portugals by the Cape of Buena Esperanza. Upon this resolution he began
to think of his best way to the Malucos, and finding himself, where he
now was, becalmed, he saw that of necessity he must be forced to take a
Spanish course; namely, to sail somewhat northerly to get a good wind.
We therefore set sail, and sailed 600 leagues at the least for a good
wind; and thus much we sailed from the 16th of April till the third of
June.

The fifth of June, being in 43 degrees towards the pole Arctic, we found
the air so cold, that our men being grievously pinched with the same,
complained of the extremity thereof; and the further we went, the more
the cold increased upon us. Whereupon we thought it best for that time
to seek the land, and did so; finding it not mountainous but low plain
land, till we came within 38 degrees towards the line. In which height
it pleased God to send us into a fair and good bay, with a good wind to
enter the same. In this bay we anchored; and the people of the country,
having their houses close by the water's side, shewed themselves unto
us, and sent a present to our General. When they came unto us, they
greatly wondered at the things that we brought. But our General,
according to his natural and accustomed humanity, courteously intreated
them, and liberally bestowed on them necessary things to cover their
nakedness; whereupon they supposed us to be gods, and would not be
persuaded to the contrary. The presents which they sent to our General,
were feathers, and cauls of network. Their houses are digged round about
with earth, and have from the uttermost brims of the circle, clifts
of wood set upon them, joining close together at the top like a spire
steeple, which by reason of that closeness are very warm. Their bed is
the ground with rushes strowed on it; and lying about the house, [they]
have the fire in the midst. The men go naked; the women take bulrushes,
and kemb them after the manner of hemp, and thereof make their loose
garments, which being knit about their middles, hang down about their
hips, having also about their shoulders a skin of deer, with the
hair upon it. These women are very obedient and serviceable to their
husbands.

After they were departed from us, they came and visited us the second
time, and brought with them feathers and bags of _tabacco_ for presents.
And when they came to the top of the hill, at the bottom whereof we
had pitched our tents, they stayed themselves; where one appointed for
speaker wearied himself with making a long oration; which done, they
left their bows upon the hill, and came down with their presents. In
the meantime the women, remaining upon the hill, tormented themselves
lamentably, tearing their flesh from their cheeks, whereby we perceived
that they were about a sacrifice. In the meantime our General with
his company went to prayer, and to reading of the Scriptures, at which
exercise they were attentive, and seemed greatly to be affected with
it; but when they were come unto us, they restored again unto us those
things which before we bestowed upon them. The news of our being there
being spread through the country, the people that inhabited round about
came down, and amongst them the king himself, a man of a goodly stature,
and comely personage, and with many other tall and warlike men; before
whose coming were sent two ambassadors to our General, to signify that
their king was coming, in doing of which message, their speech was
continued about half an hour. This ended, they by signs requested our
General to send something by their hand to their king, as a token that
his coming might be in peace. Wherein our General having satisfied them,
they returned with glad tidings to their king, who marched to us with a
princely majesty, the people crying continually after their manner; and
as they drew near unto us, so did they strive to behave themselves in
their actions with comeliness. In the fore-front was a man of goodly
personage, who bare the sceptre or mace before the king; whereupon
hanged two crowns, a less and a bigger, with three chains of a
marvellous length. The crowns were made of knit work, wrought
artificially with feathers of divers colours. The chains were made of a
bony substance, and few be the persons among them that are admitted to
wear them; and of that number also the persons are stinted, as some ten,
some twelve, etc. Next unto him which bare the sceptre, was the king
himself, with his guard about his person, clad with coney skins, and
other skins. After them followed the naked common sort of people, every
one having his face painted, some with white, some with black, and other
colours, and having in their hands one thing or another for a present.
Not so much as their children, but they also brought their presents.

In the meantime our General gathered his men together, and marched
within his fenced place, making, against their approaching, a very
warlike show. They being trooped together in their order, and a general
salutation being made, there was presently a general silence. Then he
that bare the sceptre before the king, being informed by another, whom
they assigned to that office, with a manly and lofty voice proclaimed
that which the other spake to him in secret, continuing half an hour.
Which ended, and a general _Amen_, as it were, given, the king with the
whole number of men and women, the children excepted, came down without
any weapon; who, descending to the foot of the hill, set themselves
in order. In coming towards our bulwarks and tents, the sceptre-bearer
began a song, observing his measures in a dance, and that with a stately
countenance; whom the king with his guard, and every degree of persons,
following, did in like manner sing and dance, saving only the women,
which danced and kept silence. The General permitted them to enter
within our bulwark, where they continued their song and dance a
reasonable time. When they had satisfied themselves, they made signs to
our General to sit down; to whom the king and divers others made several
orations, or rather supplications, that he would take their province
and kingdom into his hand, and become their king, making signs that
they would resign unto him their right and title of the whole land, and
become his subjects. In which, to persuade us the better, the king and
the rest, with one consent, and with great reverence, joyfully singing a
song, did set the crown upon his head, enriched his neck with all their
chains, and offered him many other things, honouring him by the name of
_Hioh_, adding thereunto, as it seemed, a sign of triumph; which thing
our General thought not meet to reject, because he knew not what honour
and profit it might be to our country. Wherefore in the name, and to the
use of her Majesty, he took the sceptre, crown, and dignity of the said
country into his hands, wishing that the riches and treasure thereof
might so conveniently be transported to the enriching of her kingdom at
home, as it aboundeth in the same.

The common sort of people, leaving the king and his guard with our
General, scattered themselves together with their sacrifices among our
people, taking a diligent view of every person: and such as pleased
their fancy (which were the youngest), they enclosing them about offered
their sacrifices unto them with lamentable weeping, scratching and
tearing their flesh from their faces with their nails, whereof issued
abundance of blood. But we used signs to them of disliking this, and
stayed their hands from force, and directed them upwards to the living
God, whom only they ought to worship. They shewed unto us their wounds,
and craved help of them at our hands; whereupon we gave them lotions,
plaisters, and ointments agreeing to the state of their griefs,
beseeching God to cure their diseases. Every third day they brought
their sacrifices unto us, until they understood our meaning, that we
had no pleasure in them; yet they could not be long absent from us,
but daily frequented our company to the hour of our departure, which
departure seemed so grievous unto them, that their joy was turned into
sorrow. They entreated us, that being absent we would remember them, and
by stealth provided a sacrifice, which we misliked.

Our necessary business being ended, our General with his company
travelled up into the country to their villages, where we found herds of
deer by a thousand in a company, being most large, and fat of body.
We found the whole country to be a warren of a strange kind of coneys;
their bodies in bigness as be the Barbary coneys, their heads as the
heads of ours, the feet of a want [mole], and the tail of a rat, being
of great length. Under her chin is on either side a bag, into the which
she gathereth her meat, when she hath filled her belly abroad. The
people eat their bodies, and make great account of their skins, for
their king's coat was made of them. Our General called this country Nova
Albion, and that for two causes; the one in respect of the white banks
and cliffs, which lie towards the sea, and the other, because it might
have some affinity with our country in name, which sometime was so
called. There is no part of earth here to be taken up, wherein there is
not some probable show of gold or silver.

At our departure hence our General set up a monument of our being there,
as also of her Majesty's right and title to the same; namely a plate,
nailed upon a fair great post, whereupon was engraved her Majesty's
name, the day and year of our arrival there, with the free giving up
of the province and people into her Majesty's hands, together with her
Highness' picture and arms, in a piece of six pence of current English
money, under the plate, whereunder was also written the name of our
General.

It seemeth that the Spaniards hitherto had never been in this part of
the country, neither did ever discover the land by many degrees to the
southwards of this place.

After we had set sail from hence, we continued without sight of land
till the 13th day of October following, which day in the morning we fell
with certain islands eight degrees to the northward of the line, from
which islands came in a great number of _canoas_, having in some of them
four, in some six, and in some also fourteen men, bringing with them
cocos and other fruits. Their _canoas_ were hollow within and cut with
great art and cunning, being very smooth within and without, and bearing
a gloss as if it were a horn daintily burnished, having a prow and a
stern of one sort, yielding inward circle-wise, being of a great height,
and full of certain white shells for a bravery; and on each side of them
lie out two pieces of timber about a yard and a half long, more or less,
according to the smallness or bigness of the boat. These people have the
nether part of their ears cut into a round circle, hanging down very low
upon their cheeks, whereon they hang things of a reasonable weight.
The nails of their hands are an inch long, their teeth are as black as
pitch, and they renew them often, by eating of an herb with a kind
of powder, which they always carry about them in a cane for the same
purpose.

Leaving this island the night after we fell with it, the 18th of
October we lighted upon divers others, some whereof made a great show of
inhabitants. We continued our course by the islands of Tagulanda, Zelon,
and Zewarra, being friends to the Portugals, the first whereof hath
growing in it great store of cinnamon. The 14th of November we fell
in with the islands of Maluco. Which day at night (having directed
our course to run with Tidore) in coasting along the island of Mutyr,
belonging to the king of Ternate, his deputy or vice-king seeing us at
sea, come with his _canoa_ to us without all fear, and came aboard; and
after some conference with our General, willed him in any wise to run in
with Ternate, and not with Tidore, assuring him that the king would be
glad of his coming, and would be ready to do what he would require, for
which purpose he himself would that night be with the king, and tell him
the news. With whom if he once dealt, we should find that if he went to
Tidore before he came to Ternate, the king would have nothing to do with
us, because he held the Portugal as his enemy. Whereupon our General
resolved to run with Ternate. Where the next morning early we came to
anchor; at which time our General sent a messenger to the king, with a
velvet cloak for a present and token of his coming to lie in peace,
and that he required nothing but traffic and exchange of merchandise,
whereof he had good store, in such things as he wanted.

In the meantime the vice-king had been with the king according to his
promise, signifying unto him what good things he might receive from us
by traffic. Whereby the king was moved with great liking towards us,
and sent to our General, with special message, that he should have
what things he needed and would require, with peace and friendship; and
moreover that he would yield himself and the right of his island to be
at the pleasure and commandment of so famous a prince as we served. In
token whereof he sent to our General a signet; and within short time
after came in his own person, with boats and _canoas_, to our ship, to
bring her into a better and safer road than she was in at that present.
In the meantime, our General's messenger, being come to the Court, was
met by certain noble personages with great solemnity, and brought to the
king, at whose hands he was most friendly and graciously entertained.

The king, purposing to come to our ship, sent before four great and
large _canoas_, in every one whereof were certain of his greatest states
(men of property or estate) that were about him, attired in white lawn
of cloth of Calicut, having over their heads, from the one end of the
_canoa_ to the other, a covering of thin perfumed mats, borne up with a
frame made of reeds for the same use; under which every one did sit in
his order according to his dignity, to keep him from the heat of the
sun; divers of whom being of good age and gravity, did make an ancient
and fatherly show. There were also divers young and comely men attired
in white, as were the others; the rest were soldiers, which stood in
comely order round about on both sides. Without whom sat the rowers in
certain galleries; which being three on a side all along the _canoas_,
did lie off from the side thereof three or four yards, one being orderly
builded lower than another, in every of which galleries were the
number of fourscore rowers. These _canoas_ were furnished with warlike
munition, every man for the most part having his sword and target, with
his dagger, beside other weapons, as lances, calivers, darts, bows and
arrows; also every _canoa_ had a small cast base mounted at the least
one full yard upon a stock set upright. Thus coming near our ship, in
order, they rowed about us one after another, and passing by, did their
homage with great solemnity; the great personages beginning with great
gravity and fatherly countenances, signifying that the king had sent
them to conduct our ship into a better road. Soon after the king himself
repaired, accompanied with six grave and ancient persons, who did their
obeisance with marvellous humility. The king was a man of tall stature,
and seemed to be much delighted with the sound of our music; to whom,
as also to his nobility, our General gave presents, wherewith they were
passing well contented.

At length the king craved leave of our General to depart, promising the
next day to come aboard, and in the meantime to send us such victuals as
were necessary for our provision. So that the same night we received of
them meal, which they call _sagu_, made of the tops of certain trees,
tasting in the mouth like sour curds, but melteth like sugar, whereof
they make certain cakes, which may be kept the space of ten years, and
yet then good to be eaten. We had of them store of rice, hens, unperfect
and liquid sugar, sugar-canes, and a fruit which they call _figo_
(plantains), with store of cloves.

The king having promised to come aboard, brake his promise, but sent his
brother to make his excuse, and to entreat our General to come on shore,
offering himself pawn aboard for his safe return. Whereunto our General
consented not, upon mislike conceived of the breach of his promise; the
whole company also utterly refusing it. But to satisfy him, our General
sent certain of his gentlemen to the Court, to accompany the king's
brother, reserving the vice-king for their safe return. They were
received of another brother of the king's, and other states, and were
conducted with great honour to the castle. The place that they were
brought unto was a large and fair house, where were at the least a
thousand persons assembled.

The king being yet absent, there sat in their places 60 grave
personages, all which were said to be of the king's council. There were
besides four grave persons, apparelled all in red, down to the ground,
and attired on their heads like the Turks; and these were said to be
Romans [probably Greeks] and ligiers [resident agents] there to keep
continual traffic with the people of Ternate. There were also two Turks
ligiers in this place, and one Italian. The king at last came in guarded
with twelve lances, covered over with a rich canopy with embossed gold.
Our men, accompanied with one of their captains called Moro, rising to
meet him, he graciously did welcome and entertain them. He was attired
after the manner of the country, but more sumptuously than the rest.
From his waist down to the ground was all cloth of gold, and the same
very rich; his legs were bare, but on his feet were a pair of shoes,
made of Cordovan skin. In the attire of his head were finely wreathed
hooped rings of gold, and about his neck he had a chain of perfect gold,
the links whereof were great, and one fold double. On his fingers he had
six very fair jewels; and sitting in his chair of state, at his right
hand stood a page with a fan in his hand, breathing and gathering the
air to the king. The same was in length two foot, and in breadth one
foot, set with eight sapphires richly embroidered, and knit to a staff
three foot in length, by the which the page did hold and move it. Our
gentlemen having delivered their message and received order accordingly,
were licensed to depart, being safely conducted back again by one of the
king's council. This island is the chief of all the islands of Maluco,
and the king hereof is king of 70 islands besides. The king with
his people are Moors in religion, observing certain new moons, with
fastings; during which fasts they neither eat nor drink in the day, but
in the night.

After that our gentlemen were returned, and that we had here by the
favour of the king received all necessary things that the place could
yield us; our General considering the great distance, and how far he was
yet off from his country, thought it not best here to linger the time
any longer, but weighing his anchors, set out of the island, and sailed
to a certain little island to the southwards of Celebes, where we graved
our ship, and continued there, in that and other businesses, 26 days.
This island is thoroughly grown with wood of a large and high growth,
very straight, and without boughs, save only in the head or top, whose
leaves are not much differing from our broom in England. Amongst these
trees night by night, through the whole land, did shew themselves an
infinite swarm of fiery worms flying in the air, whose bodies being no
bigger than our common English flies, make such a show and light as if
every twig or tree had been a burning candle. In this place breedeth
also wonderful store of bats, as big as large hens. Of crayfishes also
here wanted no plenty, and they of exceeding bigness, one whereof was
sufficient for four hungry stomachs at a dinner, being also very good
and restoring meat, whereof we had experience: and they dig themselves
holes in the earth like coneys.

When we had ended our business here we weighed, and set sail to run for
the Malucos. But having at that time a bad wind, and being amongst
the islands, with much difficulty we recovered to the northward of
the island of Celebes; where by reason of contrary winds, not able to
continue our course to run westwards, we were enforced to alter the same
to the southward again, finding that course also to be very hard and
dangerous for us, by reason of infinite shoals which lie off and among
the islands; whereof we had too much trial, to the hazard and danger of
our ship and lives. For, of all other days, upon the 9th of January, in
the year 1579 [1580], we ran suddenly upon a rock, where we stuck fast
from eight of the clock at night till four of the clock in the afternoon
the next day, being indeed out of all hope to escape the danger. But our
General, as he had always hitherto shewed himself courageous, and of a
good confidence in the mercy and protection of God, so now he continued
in the same. And lest he should seem to perish wilfully, both he and
we did our best endeavour to save ourselves; which it pleased God so to
bless, that in the end we cleared ourselves most happily of the danger.

We lighted our ship upon the rocks of three tons of cloves, eight pieces
of ordnance, and certain meal and beans; and then the wind, as it were
in a moment by the special grace of God, changing from the starboard to
the larboard of the ship, we hoisted our sails, and the happy gale drove
our ship off the rock into the sea again, to the no little comfort of
all our hearts, for which we gave God such praise and thanks, as so
great a benefit required.

The 8th of February following, we fell with the fruitful island of
Barateve, having in the mean time suffered many dangers by winds and
shoals. The people of this island are comely in body and stature, and of
a civil behaviour, just in dealing, and courteous to strangers; whereof
we had the experience sundry ways, they being most glad of our presence,
and very ready to relieve our wants in those things which their country
did yield. The men go naked, saving their heads and loins, every man
having something or other hanging at their ears. Their women are covered
from the middle down to the foot, wearing a great number of bracelets
upon their arms; for some had eight upon each arm, being made some of
bone, some of horn, and some of brass, the lightest whereof, by our
estimation, weighed two ounces apiece. With this people linen-cloth is
good merchandise, and of good request; whereof they make rolls for their
heads, and girdles to wear about them. Their island is both rich and
fruitful; rich in gold, silver, copper, and sulphur, wherein they seem
skilful and expert, not only to try the same, but in working it also
artificially into any form and fashion that pleaseth them. Their fruits
be divers and plentiful; as nutmegs, ginger, long pepper, lemons,
cucumbers, cocos, _figu_, _sagu_, with divers other sorts. And among all
the rest we had one fruit, in bigness, form and husk, like a bay berry,
hard of substance and pleasant of taste, which being sudden becometh
soft, and is a most good and wholesome victual; whereof we took
reasonable store, as we did also of the other fruits and spices. So that
to confess a truth, since the time that we first set out of our country
of England, we happened upon no place, Ternate only excepted, wherein we
found more comforts and better means of refreshing.

At our departure from Barateve, we set our course for Java Major; where
arriving, we found great courtesy, and honourable entertainment. This
island is governed by five kings, whom they call Rajah; as Rajah Donaw,
and Rajah Mang Bange, and Rajah Cabuccapollo, which live as having one
spirit and one mind. Of these five we had four a-shipboard at once, and
two or three often. They are wonderfully delighted in coloured clothes,
as red and green; the upper part of their bodies are naked, save their
heads, whereupon they wear a Turkish roll as do the Maluccians. From the
middle downward they wear a _pintado_ of silk, trailing upon the ground,
in colour as they best like. The Maluccians hate that their women should
be seen of strangers; but these offer them of high courtesy, yea, the
kings themselves. The people are of goodly stature and warlike, well
provided of swords and targets, with daggers, all being of their own
work, and most artificially done, both in tempering their metal, as also
in the form; whereof we bought reasonable store. They have an house in
every village for their common assembly; every day they meet twice,
men, women, and children, bringing with them such victuals as they think
good, some fruits, some rice boiled, some hens roasted, some _sagu_,
having a table made three foot from the ground, whereon they set their
meat, that every person sitting at the table may eat, one rejoicing in
the company of another. They boil their rice in an earthen pot, made in
form of a sugar loaf, being full of holes, as our pots which we water
our gardens withal, and it is open at the great end, wherein they get
their rice dry, without any moisture. In the mean time they have ready
another great earthen pot, as set fast in a furnace, boiling full of
water, whereinto they put their pot with rice, by such measure, that
they swelling become soft at the first, and by their swelling stopping
the holes of the pot, admit no more water to enter, but the more they
are boiled, the harder and more firm substance they become. So that in
the end they are a firm and good bread, of the which with oil, butter,
sugar, and other spices, they make divers sorts of meats very pleasant
of taste, and nourishing to nature.

Not long before our departure, they told us that not far off there were
such great ships as ours, wishing us to beware; upon this our captain
would stay no longer. From Java Major we sailed for the Cape of Good
Hope, which was the first land we fell withal; neither did we touch with
it, or any other land, until we came to Sierra Leona, upon the coast of
Guinea; notwithstanding we ran hard aboard the cape, finding the
report of the Portugals to be most false who affirm that it is the
most dangerous cape of the world, never without intolerable storms and
present danger to travellers which come near the same. This cape is
a most stately thing, and the fairest cape we saw in the whole
circumference of the earth, and we passed by it the 18th of June. From
thence we continued our course to Sierra Leona, on the coast of Guinea,
where we arrived the 22nd of July, and found necessary provisions, great
store of elephants, oysters upon trees of one kind [mangrove], spawning
and increasing infinitely, the oyster suffering no bud to grow. We
departed thence the four and twentieth day.

We arrived in England the third of November, 1580, being the third year
of our departure.