It has already been explained in the previous essay how essential it is
if we live in an artificial environment and depart from primitive
habits, thereby losing natural instincts such as guide the wild animals,
that we should study diet. No more need be said on this point. It may
not be necessary that we should have some general knowledge of
fundamental principles, and learn how to apply them with reasonable
precision.

The chemical constitution of the human body is made up of a large
variety of elements and compounds. From fifteen to twenty elements are
found in it, chief among which are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen,
calcium, phosphorus, sodium, and sulphur. The most important compounds
are protein, hydrocarbons, carbohydrates, organic mineral matter, and
water. The food which nourishes the body is composed of the same
elements and compounds.

Food serves two purposes,--it builds and repairs the body tissues, and
it generates vital heat and energy, burning food as fuel. Protein and
mineral matter serve the first purpose, and hydrocarbons (fats) and
carbohydrates (sugars and starches) the second, although, if too much
protein be assimilated it will be burnt as fuel, (but it is bad fuel as
will be mentioned later), and if too much fat is consumed it will be
stored away in the body as reserve supply. Most food contains some
protein, fat, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, but the
proportion varies very considerably in different foods.

Water is the most abundant compound in the body, forming on an average,
over sixty per cent. of the body by weight. It cannot be burnt, but is a
component part of all the tissues and is therefore an exceedingly,
important food. Mineral matter forms approximately five or six per cent.
of the body by weight. Phosphate of lime (calcium phosphate), builds
bone; and many compounds of potassium, sodium, magnesium and iron are
present in the body and are necessary nutrients. Under the term protein
are included the principal nitrogenous compounds which make bone, muscle
and other material. It forms about 15 per cent. of the body by weight,
and, as mentioned above, is burnt as fuel for generating heat and
energy. Carbohydrates form but a small proportion of the body-tissue,
less than one per cent. Starches, sugars, and the fibre of plants, or
cellulose, are included under this term. They serve the same purpose as
fat.

All dietitians are agreed that protein is the essential combined in
food. Deprivation of it quickly produces a starved physical condition.
The actual quantity required cannot be determined with perfect accuracy,
although estimates can be made approximately correct. The importance of
the other nutrient compounds is but secondary. But the system must have
all the nutrient compounds in correct proportions if it is to be
maintained in perfect health. These proportions differ slightly
according to the individual's physical constitution, temperament and
occupation.

Food replenishes waste caused by the continual wear and tear incidental
to daily life: the wear and tear of the muscles in all physical
exertion, of the brain in thinking, of the internal organs in the
digestion of food, in all the intricate processes of metabolism, in the
excretion of waste matter, and the secretion of vital fluids, etc. The
ideal diet is one which replenishes waste with the smallest amount of
suitable material, so that the system is kept in its normal condition of
health at a minimum of expense of energy. The value, therefore, of some
general knowledge of the chemical constituents of food is obvious. The
diet must be properly balanced, that is, the food eaten must provide
the nutrients the body requires, and not contain an excess of one
element or a deficiency of another. It is impossible to substitute
protein for fat, or _vice versa_, and get the same physiological result,
although the human organism is wonderfully tolerant of abuse, and
remarkably ingenious in its ability to adapt itself to abnormal
conditions.

It has been argued that it is essentially necessary for a well-balanced
dietary that the variety of food be large, or if the variety is to be
for any reason restricted, it must be chosen with great discretion.
Dietetic authorities are not agreed as to whether the variety should be
large or small, but there is a concensus of opinion that, be it large or
small, it should be selected with a view to supplying the proper
nutrients in proper proportions. The arguments, so far as the writer
understands them, for and against a large variety of foods, are as
follows:--

If the variety be large there is a temptation to over-feed. Appetite
does not need to be goaded by tasty dishes; it does not need to be
goaded at all. We should eat when hungry and until replenished; but to
eat when not hungry in order to gratify a merely sensual appetite, to
have dishes so spiced and concocted as to stimulate a jaded appetite by
novelty of taste, is harmful to an extent but seldom realised. Hence the
advisability, at least in the case of persons who have not attained
self-mastery over sensual desire, of having little variety, for then,
when the system is replenished, over-feeding is less likely to occur.

In this connection it should be remembered that in some parts of the
world the poor, although possessing great strength and excellent health,
live upon, and apparently relish, a dietary limited mostly to black
bread and garlics, while among ourselves an ordinary person eats as many
as fifty different foods in one day.[3]

On the other hand, a too monotonous dietary, especially where people are
accustomed to a large variety of mixed foods, fails to give the
gustatory pleasure necessary for a healthy secretion of the digestive
juices, and so may quite possibly result in indigestion. It is a matter
of common observation that we are better able to digest food which we
enjoy than that which we dislike, and as we live not upon what we eat,
but upon what we digest, the importance of enjoying the food eaten is
obvious.

Also as few people know anything about the nutritive value of foods,
they stand a better chance, if they eat a large variety, of procuring
the required quantity of different nutrients than when restricted to a
very limited dietary, because, if the dietary be very limited they
might by accident choose as their mainstay some food that was badly
balanced in the different nutrients, perhaps wholly lacking in protein.
It is lamentable that there is such ignorance on such an all-important
subject. However, we have to consider things as they are and not as they
ought to be.

Perhaps the best way is to have different food at different meals,
without indulging in many varieties at one meal. Thus taste can be
satisfied, while the temptation to eat merely for the sake of eating is
less likely to arise.

It might be mentioned, in passing, that in the opinion of the best
modern authorities the average person eats far more than he needs, and
that this excess inevitably results in pathological conditions. Voit's
estimate of what food the average person requires daily was based upon
observation of what people _do_ eat, not upon what they _should_ eat.
Obviously such an estimate is valueless. As well argue that an ounce of
tobacco daily is what an ordinary person should smoke because it is the
amount which the average smoker consumes.

