One more interesting feature connected with heat radiation was the
charring of fabric to different degrees depending upon the color of the
fabric.  A number of instances were recorded in which persons wearing
clothing of various colors received burns greatly varying in degree,
the degree of burn depending upon the color of the fabric over the skin
in question.  For example a shirt of alternate light and dark gray
stripes, each about 1/8 of an inch wide, had the dark stripes
completely burned out but the light stripes were undamaged; and a piece
of Japanese paper exposed nearly 1 1/2 miles from X had the characters
which were written in black ink neatly burned out.


CHARACTERISTICS OF THE INJURIES TO PERSONS

Injuries to persons resulting from the atomic explosions were of the
following types:

  A.  Burns, from
    1.  Flash radiation of heat
    2.  Fires started by the explosions.
  B.  Mechanical injuries from collapse of buildings, flying debris, etc.
  C.  Direct effects of the high blast pressure, i.e., straight
      compression.
  D.  Radiation injuries, from the instantaneous emission of gamma rays and
      neutrons.

It is impossible to assign exact percentages of casualties to each of
the types of injury, because so many victims were injured by more than
one effect of the explosions.  However, it is certain that the greater
part of the casualties resulted from burns and mechanical injures.
Col. Warren, one of America's foremost radioligists, stated it is
probable that 7 per cent or less of the deaths resulted primarily from
radiation disease.

The greatest single factor influencing the occurrence of casualties was
the distance of the person concerned from the center of explosion.

Estimates based on the study of a selected group of 900 patients
indicated that total casualties occurred as far out as 14,000 feet at
Nagasaki and 12,000 feet at Hiroshima.

Burns were suffered at a considerable greater distance from X than any
other type of injury, and mechanical injuries farther out than
radiation effects.

Medical findings show that no person was injured by radioactivity who
was not exposed to the actual explosion of the bombs.  No injuries
resulted from persistent radioactivity of any sort.


BURNS

Two types of burns were observed.  These are generally differentiated
as flame or fire burn and so-called flash burn.

The early appearance of the flame burn as reported by the Japanese, and
the later appearance as observed, was not unusual.

The flash burn presented several distinctive features.  Marked redness
of the affected skin areas appeared almost immediately, according to
the Japanese, with progressive changes in the skin taking place over a
period of a few hours.  When seen after 50 days, the most distinctive
feature of these burns was their sharp limitation to exposed skin areas
facing the center of the explosion.  For instance, a patient who had
been walking in a direction at right angles to a line drawn between him
and the explosion, and whose arms were swinging, might have burns only
on the outside of the arm nearest the center and on the inside of the
other arm.

Generally, any type of shielding protected the skin against flash
burns, although burns through one, and very occasionally more, layers
of clothing did occur in patients near the center.  In such cases, it
was not unusual to find burns through black but not through white
clothing, on the same patient.  Flash burns also tended to involve
areas where the clothes were tightly drawn over the skin, such as at
the elbows and shoulders.

The Japanese report the incidence of burns in patients surviving more
than a few hours after the explosion, and seeking medical attention, as
high as 95%.  The total mortalities due to burns alone cannot be
estimated with any degree of accuracy.  As mentioned already, it is
believed that the majority of all the deaths occurred immediately.  Of
these, the Japanese estimate that 75%, and most of the reports estimate
that over 50%, of the deaths were due to burns.

In general, the incidence of burns was in direct proportion to the
distance from X.  However, certain irregularities in this relationship
result in the medical studies because of variations in the amount of
shielding from flash burn, and because of the lack of complete data on
persons killed outright close to X.

The maximum distance from X at which flash burns were observed is of
paramount interest.  It has been estimated that patients with burns at
Hiroshima were all less than 7,500 feet from the center of the
explosion at the time of the bombing.  At Nagasaki, patients with burns
were observed out to the remarkable distance of 13,800 feet.


MECHANICAL INJURIES

The mechanical injuries included fractures, lacerations, contusions,
abrasions, and other effects to be expected from falling roofs,
crumbling walls, flying debris and glass, and other indirect blast
effects.  The appearance of these various types of mechanical injuries
was not remarkable to the medical authorities who studied them.

It was estimated that patients with lacerations at Hiroshima were less
than 10,600 feet from X, whereas at Nagasaki they extended as far as
12,200 feet.

The tremendous drag of wind, even as far as 1 mile from X, must have
resulted in many injuries and deaths.  Some large pieces of a prison
wall, for example, were flung 80 feet, and many have gone 30 feet high
before falling.  The same fate must have befallen many persons, and the
chances of a human being surviving such treatment are probably small.


BLAST INJURIES

No estimate of the number of deaths or early symptoms due to blast
pressure can be made.  The pressures developed on the ground under the
explosions were not sufficient to kill more than those people very near
the center of damage (within a few hundred feet at most).  Very few
cases of ruptured ear drums were noted, and it is the general feeling
of the medical authorities that the direct blast effects were not
great.  Many of the Japanese reports, which are believed to be false,
describe immediate effects such as ruptured abdomens with protruding
intestines and protruding eyes, but no such results were actually
traced to the effect of air pressure alone.


RADIATION INJURIES

As pointed out in another section of this report the radiations from
the nuclear explosions which caused injuries to persons were primarily
those experienced within the first second after the explosion; a few
may have occurred later, but all occurred in the first minute.  The
other two general types of radiation, viz., radiation from scattered
fission products and induced radioactivity from objects near the center
of explosion, were definitely proved not to have caused any casualties.

The proper designation of radiation injuries is somewhat difficult.
Probably the two most direct designations are radiation injury and
gamma ray injury.  The former term is not entirely suitable in that it
does not define the type of radiation as ionizing and allows possible
confusion with other types of radiation (e.g., infra-red).  The
objection to the latter term is that it limits the ionizing radiation
to gamma rays, which were undoubtedly the most important; but the
possible contribution of neutron and even beta rays to the biological
effects cannot be entirely ignored.  Radiation injury has the advantage
of custom, since it is generally understood in medicine to refer to
X-ray effect as distinguished from the effects of actinic radiation.
Accordingly, radiation injury is used in this report to mean injury due
only to ionizing radiation.

According to Japanese observations, the early symptons in patients
suffering from radiation injury closely resembled the symptons observed
in patients receiving intensive roentgen therapy, as well as those
observed in experimental animals receiving large doses of X-rays.  The
important symptoms reported by the Japanese and observed by American
authorities were epilation (lose of hair), petechiae (bleeding into the
skin), and other hemorrhagic manifestations, oropharyngeal lesions
(inflammation of the mouth and throat), vomiting, diarrhea, and fever.

Epilation was one of the most spectacular and obvious findings.  The
appearance of the epilated patient was typical.  The crown was involved
more than the sides, and in many instances the resemblance to a monk's
tonsure was striking.  In extreme cases the hair was totally lost.  In
some cases, re-growth of hair had begun by the time patients were seen
50 days after the bombing.  Curiously, epilation of hair other than
that of the scalp was extremely unusual.

Petechiae and other hemorrhagic manifestations were striking findings.
Bleeding began usually from the gums and in the more seriously affected
was soon evident from every possible source.  Petechiae appeared on the
limbs and on pressure points.  Large ecchymoses (hemorrhages under the
skin) developed about needle punctures, and wounds partially healed
broke down and bled freely.  Retinal hemorrhages occurred in many of
the patients.  The bleeding time and the coagulation time were
prolonged.  The platelets (coagulation of the blood) were
characteristically reduced in numbers.

Nausea and vomiting appearing within a few hours after the explosion
was reported frequently by the Japanese.  This usually had subsided by
the following morning, although occasionally it continued for two or
three days.  Vomiting was not infrequently reported and observed during
the course of the later symptoms, although at these times it generally
appeared to be related to other manifestation of systemic reactions
associated with infection.

Diarrhea of varying degrees of severity was reported and observed.  In
the more severe cases, it was frequently bloody.  For reasons which are
not yet clear, the diarrhea in some cases was very persistent.

Lesions of the gums, and the oral mucous membrane, and the throat were
observed.  The affected areas became deep red, then violacious in
color; and in many instances ulcerations and necrosis (breakdown of
tissue) followed.  Blood counts done and recorded by the Japanese, as
well as counts done by the Manhattan Engineer District Group, on such
patients regularly showed leucopenia (low-white blood cell count).  In
extreme cases the white blood cell count was below 1,000 (normal count
is around 7,000).  In association with the leucopenia and the
oropharyngeal lesions, a variety of other infective processes were
seen.  Wounds and burns which were healing adequately suppurated and
serious necrosis occurred.  At the same time, similar ulcerations were
observed in the larynx, bowels, and in females, the gentalia.  Fever
usually accompanied these lesions.

Eye injuries produced by the atomic bombings in both cities were the
subject of special investigations.  The usual types of mechanical
injuries were seen.  In addition, lesions consisting of retinal
hemorrhage and exudation were observed and 75% of the patients showing
them had other signs of radiation injury.

The progress of radiation disease of various degrees of severity is
shown in the following table:

  Summary of Radiation Injury
  Clinical Symptoms and Findings

  Day
  after
  Explo-
  sion    Most Severe              Moderately Severe        Mild
    1.    1. Nausea and vomiting   1. Nausea and vomiting
    2.    after 1-2 hours.         after 1-2 hours.
    3.    NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
    4.
    5.    2. Diarrhea
    6.    3. Vomiting              NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
    7.    4. Inflammation of the
             mouth and throat
    8.    5. Fever
    9.    6. Rapid emaciation
   10.       Death                                          NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
   11.  (Mortality probably        2. Beginning epilation.
   12.   100%)
   13.
   14.
   15.
   16.
   17.
   18.                             3. Loss of appetite
   19.                             and general malaise.     1. Epilation
   20.                             4. Fever.                2. Loss of appetite
   21.                             5. Severe inflammation   and malaise.
   22.                             of the mouth and throat  3. Sore throat.
   23.                                                      4. Pallor.
   24.                                                      5. Petechiae
   25.                                                      6. Diarrhea
   26.                                                      7. Moderate emacia-
   27.                             6. Pallor.               tion.
   28.                             7. Petechiae, diarrhea
   29.                             and nose bleeds          (Recovery unless com-
   30.                                                       plicated by previous
   31.                             8. Rapid emaciation       poor health or
                                      Death                  super-imposed in-
                                   (Mortality probably 50%)  juries or infec-
                                                             tion).

It was concluded that persons exposed to the bombs at the time of
detonation did show effects from ionizing radiation and that some of
these patients, otherwise uninjured, died.  Deaths from radiation began
about a week after exposure and reached a peak in 3 to 4 weeks.  They
practically ceased to occur after 7 to 8 weeks.

Treatment of the burns and other physical injuries was carried out by
the Japanese by orthodox methods.  Treatment of radiation effects by
them included general supportative measures such as rest and high
vitamin and caloric diets.  Liver and calcium preparations were
administered by injection and blood transfusions were used to combat
hemorrhage.  Special vitamin preparations and other special drugs used
in the treatment of similar medical conditions were used by American
Army Medical Corps officers after their arrival.  Although the general
measures instituted were of some benefit no definite effect of any of
the specific measures on the course of the disease could be
demonstrated.  The use of sulfonamide drugs by the Japanese and
particularly of penicillin by the American physicians after their
arrival undoubtedly helped control the infections and they appear to be
the single important type of treatment which may have effectively
altered the earlier course of these patients.

One of the most important tasks assigned to the mission which
investigated the effects of the bombing was that of determining if the
radiation effects were all due to the instantaneous discharges at the
time of the explosion, or if people were being harmed in addition from
persistent radioactivity.  This question was investigated from two
points of view.  Direct measurements of persistent radioactivity were
made at the time of the investigation.  From these measurements,
calculations were made of the graded radiation dosages, i.e., the total
amount of radiation which could have been absorbed by any person.
These calculations showed that the highest dosage which would have been
received from persistent radioactivity at Hiroshima was between 6 and
25 roentgens of gamma radiation; the highest in the Nagasaki Area was
between 30 and 110 roentgens of gamma radiation.  The latter figure
does not refer to the city itself, but to a localized area in the
Nishiyama District.  In interpreting these findings it must be
understood that to get these dosages, one would have had to remain at
the point of highest radioactivity for 6 weeks continuously, from the
first hour after the bombing.  It is apparent therefore that insofar as
could be determined at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the residual radiation
alone could not have been detrimental to the health of persons entering
and living in the bombed areas after the explosion.

The second approach to this question was to determine if any persons
not in the city at the time of the explosion, but coming in immediately
afterwards exhibited any symptoms or findings which might have been due
to persistence induced radioactivity.  By the time of the arrival of
the Manhattan Engineer District group, several Japanese studies had
been done on such persons.  None of the persons examined in any of
these studies showed any symptoms which could be attributed to
radiation, and their actual blood cell counts were consistently within
the normal range.  Throughout the period of the Manhattan Engineer
District investigation, Japanese doctors and patients were repeatedly
requested to bring to them any patients who they thought might be
examples of persons harmed from persistent radioactivity.  No such
subjects were found.

It was concluded therefore as a result of these findings and lack of
findings, that although a measurable quantity of induced radioactivity
was found, it had not been sufficient to cause any harm to persons
living in the two cities after the bombings.


SHIELDING FROM RADIATION

Exact figures on the thicknesses of various substances to provide
complete or partial protection from the effects of radiation in
relation to the distance from the center of explosion, cannot be
released at this time.  Studies of collected data are still under way.
It can be stated, however, that at a reasonable distance, say about 1/2
mile from the center of explosion, protection to persons from radiation
injury can be afforded by a layer of concrete or other material whose
thickness does not preclude reasonable construction.

Radiation ultimately caused the death of the few persons not killed by
other effects and who were fully exposed to the bombs up to a distance
of about 1/2 mile from X.  The British Mission has estimated that
people in the open had a 50% chance of surviving the effects of
radiation at 3/4 of a mile from X.


EFFECTS OF THE ATOMIC BOMBINGS ON THE INHABITANTS OF THE BOMBED CITIES

In both Hiroshima and Nagasaki the tremendous scale of the disaster
largely destroyed the cities as entities.  Even the worst of all other
previous bombing attacks on Germany and Japan, such as the incendiary
raids on Hamburg in 1943 and on Tokyo in 1945, were not comparable to
the paralyzing effect of the atomic bombs.  In addition to the huge
number of persons who were killed or injuried so that their services in
rehabilitation were not available, a panic flight of the population
took place from both cities immediately following the atomic
explosions.  No significant reconstruction or repair work was
accomplished because of the slow return of the population; at the end
of November 1945 each of the cities had only about 140,000 people.
Although the ending of the war almost immediately after the atomic
bombings removed much of the incentive of the Japanese people toward
immediate reconstruction of their losses, their paralysis was still
remarkable.  Even the clearance of wreckage and the burning of the many
bodies trapped in it were not well organized some weeks after the
bombings.  As the British Mission has stated, "the impression which
both cities make is of having sunk, in an instant and without a
struggle, to the most primitive level."

