"I should have known you, sir, anywhere," said Jock, amazed to find
the Ogre of old times no venerable seignior, but a man scarce yet
middle-aged.

They talked of Mr. Ogilvie's late tour, in scenes well known to Jock,
and thence they came to the whereabouts of all the family, Armine's
health and Robert's appointment, till they felt intimate; and the
unobtrusive sympathy of the old friend opened the youth's heart, and
he made much plain that had been only half understood from Mrs.
Morgan's letters.  Of his eldest brother and sister, Jock said
little; but there was no need to explain why his mother was
straitening herself, and remaining at Belforest when it had become so
irksome to her.

"And you are going out to India?" said Mr. Ogilvie.

"That's not coming off, sir."

"Indeed, I thought you were to have a staff appointment."

"It would not pay, sir; and that is a consideration."

"Then have you anything else in view?"

"The hospitals," said Jock, with a poor effort to seem diverted; "the
other form of slaughter."  Then as his friend looked at him with
concerned and startled eyes, he added, "Unless there were some
extraordinary chance of loot.  You see the pagoda tree is shaken
bare, and I could do no more than keep myself and have nothing for my
mother, and I am afraid she will need it.  It is a chance whether
Allen, at his age, or Armine, with his health, can do much, and some
one must stay and get remunerative work."

"Is not the training costly?"

"Her Majesty owes me something. Luckily I got my commission by
purchase just in time, and I shall receive compensation enough to
carry me through my studies.  We shall be all together with Friar
Brownlow, who takes the same line in the old house in Bloomsbury,
where we were all born.  That she really does look forward to."

"I should think so, with you to look after her," said Mr. Ogilvie
heartily.

"Only she can't get into it till Lady Day.  And I wanted to ask you,
Mr. Ogilvie, do you know anything about expenses down at your place?
What would tolerable lodgings be likely to come to, rent of rooms, I
mean, for my mother and the two young ones.  Armie has not wintered
in England since that Swiss adventure of ours, and I suppose St.
Cradocke's would be as good a place for him as any."

"I had a proposition to make, Brownlow.  My sister and I invested in
a house at St. Cradocke's when I was curate there, and she meant to
retire to me when she had finished Barbara.  My married curate is
leaving it next week, when I go home.  The single ones live in the
rectory with me, and I think of making it a convalescent home; but
this can't be begun for some months, as the lady who is to be at the
head will not be at liberty.  Do you think your mother would do me
the favour to occupy it?  It is furnished, and my housekeeper would
see it made comfortable for her.  Do you think you could make the
notion acceptable to her?" he said, colouring like a lad, and
stuttering in his eagerness.

"It would be a huge relief," exclaimed Jock.  "Thank you, Mr.
Ogilvie.  Belforest has come to be like a prison to her, and it will
be everything to have Armine in a warm place among reasonable
people."

"Is Kenminster more unreasonable than formerly?"

"Not Kenminster, but Woodside.  I say, Mr. Ogilvie, you haven't any
one at St. Cradocke's who will send Armine and Babie to walk three
miles and back in the rain for a bit of crimson cord and tassels?"

"I trust not," said Mr. Ogilvie, smiling.  "That is the way in which
good people manage to do so much harm."

"I'm glad you say so," cried Jock.  "That woman is worse for him than
six months of east wind.  I declare I had a hard matter to get myself
to go to Church there the next day."

"Who is _she_?"

"The sister of the Vicar of Woodside, who is making him the edifying
martyr of a goody book.  Ah, you know her, I see," as Mr. Ogilvie
looked amused.

"A gushing lady of a certain age?  Oh yes, she has been at St.
Cradocke's."

"She is not coming again, I hope!" in horror.

"Not likely.  They were there for a few months before her brother had
the living, and I could quite fancy her influence bringing on a
morbid state of mind.  There is something exaggerated about her."

"You've hit her off exactly!" cried Jock, "and you'll unbewitch our
poor boy before she has quite done for him!  Can't you come down with
me on Saturday, and propose the plan?"

"Thank you,  I am pledged to Sunday."

"I forgot.  But come on Monday then?"

"I had better go and prepare.  I had rather you spoke for me.
Somehow," and a strange dew came in David Ogilvie's eyes, "I could
not bear to see _her_ there, where we saw her installed in triumph,
now that all is so changed."

"You would see her the brightest and bravest of all.  Neither she nor
Babie would mind the loss of fortune a bit if it were not, as Babie
says, for 'other things.'  But those other things are wearing her to
a mere shadow.  No, not a shadow-—that is dark—-but a mere sparkle!
But to escape from Belforest will cure a great deal."

So Jock went away with the load on his heart somewhat lightened.  He
could not get home on Saturday till very late, when dinner had long
been over.  Coming softly in, through the dimly lighted drawing-
rooms, over the deeply piled carpets, he heard Babie's voice reading
aloud in the innermost library, and paused for a moment, looking
through the heavy velvet curtains over the doorway before withdrawing
one and entering.  His mother's face was in full light, as she sat
helping Armine to illuminate texts.  She did indeed look worn and
thin, and there were absolute lines on it, but they were curves such
as follow smiles, rather than furrows of care; feet rather of larks
than of crows, and her whole air was far more cheerful and animated
than that of her youngest son.   He was thin and wan, his white
cheeks contrasting with his dark hair and brown eyes, which looked
enormous in their weary pensiveness, as he lent back languidly,
holding a brush across his lips in a long pause, while she was doing
his work.  Barbara's bright keen little features were something quite
different as, wholly wrapped up in her book, she read—-


          "Oh! then Ladurlad started,
           As one who, in his grave,
           Has heard an angel's call,
           Yea, Mariately, thou must deign to save,
           Yea, goddess, it is she,
           Kailyal—-"


"Are you learning Japanese?" asked Jock, advancing, so that Armine
started like Ladurlad himself.

"Dear old Skipjack!  Skipped here again!" and they were all about
him.  "Have you had any dinner?"

"A mouthful at the station.  If there is any coffee and a bit of
something cold, I'd rather eat it promiscuously here.  No dining-room
spread, pray.  It is too jolly here," said Jock, dropping into an
armchair.  "Where's Bob?"

"Dining at the school-house."

"And what's that Mariolatry?"

"Mariately," said Babie.  "An Indian goddess.  It is the 'Curse of
Kehama,' and wonderfully noble."

"Moore or Browning?"

"For shame, Jock!" cried the girl.  "I thought you did know more than
examination cram."

"It is the advantage of having no Mudie boxes," said his mother.  "We
are taking up our Southey."

"And, Armie, how are you?"

"My cough is better, thank you," was the languid answer.  "Only they
won't let me go beyond the terrace."

"For don't I know," said his mother, "that if once I let you out, I
should find you croaking at a choir practice at Woodside?"

Then, after ordering a refection for the traveller, came the question
what he had been doing.

"Dining with Mr. Ogilvie.  It is quite a new sensation to find
oneself on a level with the Ogre of one's youth, and prove him a
human mortal after all."

