[86] Promises or vows, whether made by us or by others on our
behalf, before we possessed powers of reason or reflection, cannot
be binding. The confirmation or rejection of all vows made by or
for us in our nonage, should, on arriving at years of discretion,
be our deliberate choice, for we must recollect that no personal
dedication can be acceptable to God unless it is the result of
solemn inquiry-(ED).

[87] Mark the subtlety of this gradation in temptation. The profits
of the world and pleasures of sin are held out as allurements.
The apostasy of others suggested. The difficulties, dangers, and
sufferings of the Lord's people, are contrasted with the prosperity
of sinners. The recollections of our sins and backslidings, under a
profession of religion. The supposition that all our profession is
founded in pride and vain-glory. All backed by our own consciences;
as if Apollyon straddled quite across the way, and stopped us from
going on-(Andronicus).

[88] This dialogue is given, in different words, in the Jerusalem
Sinner Saved, Volume 1, pages 79, 80. Satan is loath to part with
a great sinner. What, my true servant, quoth he, my old servant,
wilt thou forsake me now? Having so often sold thyself to me to
work wickedness, wilt thou forsake me now? Thou horrible wretch,
dost not know that thou hast sinned thyself beyond the reach
of grace, and dost thou think to find mercy now? Art not thou
a murderer, a thief, a harlot, a witch, a sinner of the greatest
size, and dost thou look for mercy now? Dost thou think that
Christ will foul His fingers with thee? It is enough to make angels
blush, saith Satan, to see so vile a one knock at Heaven's gates
for mercy, and wilt thou be so abominably bold to do it? Thus
Satan dealt with me, says the great sinner, when at first I came
to Jesus Christ. And what did you reply? saith the tempted. Why,
I granted the whole charge to be true, says the other. And what,
did you despair, or how? No, saith he, I said, I am Magdalene, I
am Zaccheus, I am the thief, I am the harlot, I am the publican,
I am the prodigal, and one of Christ's murderers-yea, worse than
any of these; and yet God was so far off from rejecting of me, as
I found afterwards, that there was music and dancing in His house
for me, and for joy that I was come home unto Him. When Satan
charged Luther with a long list of crimes, he replied, This is all
true; but write another line at the bottom, "The blood of Jesus
Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin"-(ED).

[89] The devil is that great and dogged leviathan, that "spreadeth
sharp pointed things upon the mire" (Job 40:30). For be the
spreading nature of our corruptions never so broad, he will find
sharp pointed things enough to stick in the mire of them for our
affliction; they are called fiery darts, and he has abundance
of them with which he can and will sorely prick and wound our
spirits-(Bunyan on Christ's Love, vol. 2, p. 65).

[90] When infidel thoughts prevail, so that doubts of the truth
of Scripture take hold of the mind, the sword of the Spirit flies
out of the hand. Unarmed before a ferocious enemy, it was an awful
moment; but God revives his faith in the Divine Word, he recovers
his sword, and gives his enemy a deadly plunge-I shall rise-(Drayton).

[91] "For a season," is only found in the first edition. These
words may have been omitted, in Bunyan's subsequent editions, by
a typographical error, or have been struck out by him. My impression
is, that they were left out by the printer in error; because, in
the Second Part, when the pilgrims pass the spot and talk of the
battle, we are told that "when Apollyon was beat, he made his
retreat to the next valley." And there poor Christian was awfully
beset with him again-(ED).

[92] You will find, from the perusal of Bunyan's own spiritual
life, that he has here brought together, in the assault of Apollyon
upon Christian, many of the most grievous temptations with which
his own soul was beset, as also, in Christian's answers against
them, the very method of defence which he himself was taught by
Divine grace in the midst of the conflict. It is here condensed
into a narrow and vivid scene, but it extended over years of
Bunyan's life; and the wisdom that is in it, and the points of
experience illustrated, were the fruit of many months of painfulness,
danger, and desperate struggle with the adversary, which he had
to go through-(Cheever).

[93] The literal history of this terrific conflict may be found in
Bunyan's experience recorded in Grace Abounding, (Nos. 131-173),
when he recovered his sword, and put his enemy to flight. He
describes his agonies in the combat as if he were being racked
upon the wheel, and states that it lasted for about a year. Floods
of blasphemies were poured in upon him, but he was saved from
utter despair, because they were loathsome to him. Dr. Cheever
eloquently says, "What made the fight a thousand times worse for
poor Christian was, that many of these hellish darts were tipped,
by Apollyon's malignant ingenuity, with sentences from Scripture";
so that Christian thought the Bible was against him. One of these
fiery darts penetrated his soul with the awful words, "no place
for repentance"; and another with, "hath never forgiveness." The
recovery of his sword was by a heavenly suggestion that He BEGIN
did not "refuse him that speaketh"; new vigour was communicated.
"When I fall, I SHALL arise," was a home-thrust at Satan; who left
him, richly to enjoy the consolations of the Gospel after this
dreadful battle-(ED).

[94] By "leaves" here (Rev. 22: 2), we are to understand the
blessed and precious promises, consolations, and encouragements,
that, by virtue of Christ, we find everywhere growing on the new
covenant, which will be handed freely to the wounded conscience that
is tossed on the reckless waves of doubt and unbelief. Christ's
leaves are better than Adam's aprons. He sent His Word, and healed
them-(Bunyan's Holy City).

[95] However terrible these conflicts are, they are what every
Christian pilgrim has to encounter that is determined to win
Heaven. Sin and death, reprobates and demons, are against him.
The Almighty, all good angels and men, are for him. Eternal life
is the reward. Be not discouraged, young Christian! "If God be for
us, who can be against us?" We shall come off more than conquerors,
through him that hath loved us. Equal to our day so shall be our
strength. The enemies had a special check from our Lord, while Mr.
Fearing passed through. "Though death and hell obstruct the way
The meanest saint shall win the day"-(ED).

[96] "Desired Heaven," in some of Bunyan's editions-(ED).

[97] The ditch on the right hand is error in principle, into which
the blind, as to spiritual truth, fall. The ditch on the left hand
means outward sin and wickedness, which many fall into. Both are
alike dangerous to pilgrims: but the Lord "will keep the feet
of his saints" (1 Sam. 2:9)-(Mason). Dr. Dodd considers that by
the deep ditch is intended "presumptuous hopes," and the no less
dangerous quag to be "despairing fears"-(ED).

[98] The sight of an immortal soul in peril of its eternal interests,
beset with enemies, engaged in a desperate conflict, with hell
opening her mouth before, and fiends and temptations pressing
after, is a sublime and awful spectacle. Man cannot aid him; all
his help is in God only-(Cheever).

[99] And as for the secrets of Satan, such as are suggestions
to question the being of God, the truth of His Word, and to be
annoyed with devilish blasphemies, none are more acquainted with
these than the biggest sinners at their conversion; wherefore
thus also they are prepared to be helps in the church to relieve
and comfort others-(Jerusalem Sinner Saved, vol. 1, p. 80). See also
a very interesting debate upon this subject in Come and Welcome
to Jesus Christ, volume 1, page 250. O, no one knows the terrors
of these days but myself-(Grace Abounding, Nos. 100-102). Satan
and his angels trouble his head with their stinking breath. How
many strange, hideous, and amazing blasphemies have some, that
are coming to Christ, had injected upon their spirits against
Him-(Christ a Complete Saviour, vol. 1, p. 209). He brought me up
also out of a horrible pit; a pit of noise of devils, and of my
heart answering them with distrust and fear-(Saint's Knowledge of
Christ's Love).

[100] The experience of other saints is very encouraging; for the
soul finds that others have gone before him in dreadful, dark,
and dreary paths-(Mason).

[101] To walk in darkness, and not be distressed for it, argues
stupidity of the soul. To have the light of God's countenance
shine upon us, and not to rejoice and be thankful for it, is
impossible-(Mason).

[102] I would not be too confident, but I apprehend that by this
second part of the valley we are taught that believers are not
most in danger when under the deepest distress; that the snares
and devices of the enemy are so many and various, through the
several stages of our pilgrimage, as to baffle all description;
and that all the emblems of these valleys could not represent the
thousandth part of them. Were it not that the Lord guides His people
by the light of His Word and Spirit, they never could possibly
escape them-(Scott).

[103] The wicked spirits have made and laid for us snares, pits,
holes, and what not, if peradventure by something we may be
destroyed. Yea, and we should most certainly be so, were it not
for the Rock that is higher than they-(Bunyan's Saints' Knowledge
of Christ's Love, vol. 2, p. 8).

[104] Alas, my dear country! I would to God it could not be said
to thee, since the departure of paganism and popery, "The blood of
the poor innocents is found in thy skirts, not by a secret search,
but upon thy kings, princes, priests, and prophets" (Jer. 2:34,
26). Let us draw a veil over the infamy of PROTESTANT PERSECUTION,
and bless Jehovah, who has broken the arrow and the bow-(Andronicus).
It may be questioned whether popery may not yet so far recover
its vigour as to make one more alarming struggle against vital
Christianity, before that Man of Sin be finally destroyed. Our
author, however, has described no other persecution than what
Protestants, in his time, carried on against one another with very
great alacrity-(Scott).

[105] The quaint and pithy point of this passage stamps it as one
of Bunyan's most felicitous descriptions. We who live in a later
age may, indeed, suspect that he has somewhat antedated the death
of Pagan, and the impotence of Pope; but his picture of their
cave and its memorials, his delineation of the survivor of this
fearful pair, rank among those master-touches which have won such
lasting honour for his genius-(Bernard Barton).

[106] Christian having passed the gloomy whirlwind of temptation
to despair, now walks in the light of the Sun of Righteousness,
through the second part of the valley. There he encounters the
persecution of the state church. Act after act of Parliament had
been passed-full of atrocious penalties, imprisonments, transportation,
and hanging-to deter poor pilgrims from the way to Zion. "The way
was full of snares, traps, gins, nets, pitfalls, and deep holes."
Had the darkness of mental anguish been added to these dangers,
he must have perished. The butcheries of Jefferies strewed the way
with blood, bones, ashes, and mangled bodies of pilgrims. Pope
reared his ugly head, and growled out, "More of you must be burned."
The desolating tyranny of the church was curbed by the King's
turning papist, which paved the way for the glorious Revolution
of 1688. It appears from the Grace Abounding, that to the time of
Bunyan's imprisonment for preaching the Gospel, he was involved
frequently in deeply-distressing spiritual darkness; but, from his
entering the prison, be walked in the light of God's countenance
to his dying day-(ED).

[107] We are now to be introduced to a new pilgrim, and Christian
is no more to go on his way alone. The sweet Christian communion
depicted in this book forms one of the most delightful features
in it, and Faithful and Hopeful are both of them portraits that
stand out in as firm relief as that of Christian himself. Faithful
is the Martyr Pilgrim, who goes in a chariot of fire to Heaven,
and leaves Christian alone; Hopeful springs, as it were, out of
Faithful's ashes, and supplies his place all along the remainder
of the pilgrimage. The communion between these loving Christians,
their sympathy and share in each other's distresses, their mutual
counsels and encouragements, temptations and dangers, experience
and discipline, their united joys and sorrows, and their very
passing of the river of death together, form the sweetest of all
examples of the true fellowship of saints, united to the same
Saviour, made to drink into the same Spirit, baptized with the same
sufferings, partakers of the same consolations, crowned with the
same crown of life, entering together upon glory everlasting-(Cheever).
The author has displayed great skill in introducing a companion
to his Pilgrim in this place. Thus far the personal adventures of
Christian had been of the most extraordinary kind, and sufficient of
themselves to exercise the reader's sympathies for him; but these
feelings would have languished from weariness, however intensely
the sequel might have been wrought, had attention been claimed
for a solitary wanderer to the end of the journey. Here then the
history, which had probably reached its climax in the preceding
scenes, revives, by taking a new form, and exciting a fresh interest,
rather doubled than divided, though two have thenceforward to
share it instead of one. Besides, the individual experience of one
man, however varied, would not have been sufficient to exemplify
all the most useful lessons of the Gospel, unless the trials of many
persons, of different age, sex, and disposition, were interwoven.
The instance at hand will illustrate this point-(Montgomery).

[108] Ah, what a smile was that! How much sin was there in it,
instead of humble spiritual gratitude, and joy. Now see how
he that exalteth himself shall be abased, and how surely, along
with spiritual pride, comes carelessness, false security, and a
grievous fall-(Cheever). The very person's hand we need to help
us, whom we thought we had exceeded-(Mason). When a consciousness
of superiority to other Christians leads to vain glory, a fall
will be the consequence; but while it excites compassion, it also
cements Christian friendship-(Ivimey).

[109] Mr. Anything became a brisk man in the broil; but both
sides were against him, because he was true to none. He had, for
his malapertness, one of his legs broken, and he that did it wished
it had been his neck-(Holy War).

[110] "I trow," I believe or imagine (Imp. Dict.)-(ED).

[111] If the experience of Christian is an exhibition of Bunyan's
own feelings, the temptations of Madam Wanton are very properly
laid in the way of Faithful, and not of Christian. She would have
had no chance with the man who admired the wisdom of God in making
him shy of women, who rarely carried it pleasantly towards a woman,
and who abhorred the common salutation of women-(Grace Abounding,
No. 316)-ED.

[112] "All" is omitted from every edition by Bunyan, except the
first; probably a typographical error.

[113] An awful slavery! "None that go unto her return again,
neither take they hold of the paths of life" (Prov. 2:19)--(ED).

[114] That sinner who never had a threatening fiery visit from
Moses, is yet asleep in his sins, under the curse and wrath of
the law of God-(C.C.V.G.).

[115] As the law giveth no strength, nor life to keep it, so it
accepteth none of them that are under it. Sin and Die, is forever
its language. There is no middle way in the law. It hath not
ears to hear, nor heart to pity, its penitent ones--(Bunyan on
Justification, vol. 1, p. 316).

[116] The delineation of this character is a masterly grouping
together of the arguments used by men of this world against
religion, in ridicule and contempt of it. Faithful's account of
him, and of his arguments, is a piece of vigorous satire, full of
truth and life-(Cheever).

[117] Nothing can be a stronger proof that we have lost the image
of God, than shame concerning the things of God. This shame, joined
to the fear of man, is a very powerful enemy to God's truths,
Christ's glory, and our soul's comfort. Better at once get out
of our pain, by declaring boldly for Christ and His cause, than
stand shivering on the brink of profession, ever dreading the loss
of our good name and reputation: for Christ says (awful words):
"Whosoever shall be ashamed of Me and of My words, in this
adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of
man be ashamed when He cometh in the glory of His Father" (Mark
8:38). It is one thing to be attacked by shame, and another to be
conquered by it-(Mason).

[118] Christian in a great measure escaped the peculiar temptations
that assaulted Faithful, yet he sympathized with him; nor did
the latter deem the gloomy experiences of his brother visionary
or imaginative, though he had been exempted from them. One man,
from a complication of causes, is exposed to temptations of which
another is ignorant; and in this case he needs much sympathy,
which he seldom meets with; while they, who are severe on him are
liable to be baffled in another way, which, for want of coincidence
in habit, temperature, and situation, he is equally prone to
disregard. Thus Christians are often led reciprocally to censure,
suspect, or dislike each other, on those very grounds which would
render them useful and encouraging counselors and companions!-(Scott).

[119] Bunyan, in his Pilgrim's Progress, places the Valley of
the Shadow of Death, not where we should expect it, at the end of
Christian's pilgrimage, but about the middle of it. Those who have
studied the history of Bunyan and his times will hardly wonder at
this. It was then safer to commit felony than to become a Dissenter.
Indeed, a felon was far surer of a fair trial than any Dissenting
minister, after the restoration of Charles II. This Bunyan found.
Simply and solely for preaching, he was condemned by Keeling to
imprisonment. That was to be followed by banishment if he did not
conform, and, in the event of his return from banishment without
license from the King, the judge added, "You must stretch by the
neck for it; I tell you plainly." Christian endured, in the first
portion of this dismal valley, great darkness and distress of mind
about his soul's safety for eternity; and, in the latter part of
the valley, the dread of an ignominious, and cruel, and sudden
execution in the midst of his days-a fear more appalling than the
prospect of a natural death. This he was enabled to bear, because
he then enjoyed the light, the presence, and the approbation of
his God-(ED).

[120] The character now introduced under a most expressive name,
is an admirable portrait, drawn by a masterly hand, from some
striking original, but exactly resembling numbers in every age
and place, where the truths of the Gospel are generally known.
Such men are more conspicuous than humble believers, but their
profession will not endure a strict investigation-(Scott). Reader,
be careful not to judge harshly, or despise a real believer, who
is blessed with fluency of utterance on Divine subjects-(ED).

[121] As an outward profession, without a holy life, is no evidence
of religion, neither are excellent gifts any proof that the persons
who possess them are partakers of grace: so it is an awful fact,
that some have edified the church by their gifts, who have themselves
been destitute of the spirit of life-(Ivimey). I concluded, a
little grace, a little love, a little of the true fear of God, is
better than all gifts-(Grace Abounding).

[122] The Pharisee goes on boldly, fears nothing, but trusteth
in himself that his state is good; he hath his mouth full of many
fine things, whereby he strokes himself over the head, and calls
himself one of God's white boys, that, like the Prodigal's brother,
never transgressed-(Pharisee and Publican, vol. 2, p. 215).

[123] Talkative seems to have been introduced on purpose that the
author might have a fair opportunity of stating his sentiments
concerning the practical nature of evangelical religion, to which
numbers in his day were too inattentive; so that this admired
allegory has fully established the important distinction between
a dead and a living faith, on which the whole controversy
depends-(Scott). "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of
angels, and have not charity, I am as sounding brass or a tinkling
cymbal" (1 Cor. 13:1). Just thus it is with him who has gifts,
but wants grace. Shall I be proud, because I am sounding brass? Is
it so much to be a fiddle? Hath not the least creature that hath
life, more of God in it than these?-(Grace Abounding, No. 297-300).
Some professors are pretty busy and ripe, able to hold you in a
very large discourse of the glorious Gospel; but, if you ask them
concerning heart work, and its sweet influences and virtues on
their souls and consciences, they may answer, I find by preaching
that I am turned from my sins in a good measure, and have learned
[in tongue] to plead for the Gospel. This is not far enough to
prove them under the covenant of grace-(Law and Grace, vol. 1, p.
515).

[124] Read this, and tremble, ye whose profession lies only on
your tongue, but who never knew the love and grace of Christ in
your souls. O how do you trifle with the grace of God, with precious
Christ, and with the holy Word of truth! O what an awful account
have you to give hereafter to a holy, heart-searching God! Ye
true pilgrims of Jesus, read this, and give glory to your Lord,
for saving you from resting in barren notions, and taking up with
talking of truths; and that he has given you to know the truth
in its power, to embrace it in your heart, and to live and walk
under its constraining, sanctifying influences. Who made you to
differ?-(Mason).

[125] This spiritual application of the law of Moses is found in
the narrative of Bunyan's experience in the Grace Abounding, (No.
71): "I was also made, about this time, to see something concerning
the beasts that Moses counted clean and unclean. I thought those
beasts were types of men: the clean, types of them that were the
people of God; but the unclean, types of such as were the children
of the wicked one. Now, I read, that the clean beasts chewed the
cud; that is, thought I, they show us we must feed upon the Word
of God; they also parted the hoof, I thought that signified we
must part, if we would be saved with the ways of ungodly men."

[126] True faith will ever show itself by its fruits; real conversion,
by the life and conversation. Be not deceived; God is not to be
mocked with the tongue, if the heart is not right towards Him in
love and obedience-(Mason).

[127] This distinction between speaking against sin, and feeling
a hatred to it, is so vastly important, that it forms the only
infallible test to distinguish between those who are "quickened"
by the Spirit of God, and those who "have a name to live and are
dead." It is a very awful statement, but, it is to be feared,
strictly correct, that ministers may declaim against sin in the
pulpit, who yet indulge it in the parlour. There may be much head
knowledge, where there is no heart religion-(Ivimey).

[128] Christian faithfulness detects mere talkatives, and they
complain, "in so saying thou condemnest us also"; they will bear
no longer, but seek refuge under more comfortable preachers, or
in more candid company, and represent those faithful monitors as
censorious, peevish, and melancholy men-lying at the catch-(Scott).

[129] In the Jerusalem Sinner Saved, Bunyan explains his meaning
of "lying at the catch" in these solemn words, referring to those
who abide in sin, and yet expect to be saved by grace: "Of this
sort are they that build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with
iniquity; that judge for reward, and teach for hire, and divine
for money, and lean upon the Lord (Micah 3:10, 11). This is doing
things with a high hand against the Lord our God, and a taking Him,
as it were, at the catch! This is, as we say among men, to seek
to put a trick upon God, as if He had not sufficiently fortified
his proposals of grace by his Holy Word, against all such kind of
fools as these"-(Vol. 1, p. 93).

[130] Blessed faithful dealing! O that it were more practised
in the world, and in the church! How then would vain talkers be
detected in the one, and driven out of the other-(Mason).

[131] Heart searching, soul examining, and close questioning of
the conduct of life, will not do with talkative professors. Ring
a peal on the doctrines of grace, and many will chime in with you;
but speak closely how grace operates upon the heart, and influences
the life to follow Christ in self-denying obedience, they cannot
bear it; they are offended with you, and will turn away from you,
and call you legal-(Mason).

[132] I observe that, as there are trees wholly noble, so there
are also their semblance; not right, but ignoble. There is the
grape, and the wild grape; the rose, and the canker rose; the
apple and the crab. Now, fruit from these wild trees, however it
may please children to play with, yet the prudent count it of no
value. There are also in the world a generation of professors that
bring forth nothing but wild olive berries; saints only before
men, devils and vipers at home; saints in word, but sinners in
heart and life. Well, saith God, this profession is but a cloak:
I will loose the reins of this man, and give him up to his own
vile affections. "I will answer him by Myself" (Ezek. 14:7). Thou
art too hard for the church: she knows not how to deal with thee.
Well, I will deal with that man Myself-(Bunyan's Barren Fig-tree).

[133] Where the heart is rotten, it will ward off conviction,
turn from a faithful reprover, condemn him, and justify itself.
Faithful dealing will not do for unfaithful souls. Mind not that,
but be faithful to the truth-(Mason).

[134] How they rejoiced again to meet Evangelist, and listen
to his encouraging and animating exhortations; of which, as they
were now near the great town of Vanity Fair, they would stand in
special need. Indeed, it was to forewarn them of what they were
to meet with there, and to exhort them, amidst all persecutions,
to quit themselves like men, that Evangelist now came to them.
His voice, so solemn and deep, yet so inspiring and animating,
sounded like the tones of a trumpet on the eve of battle-(Cheever).

[135] The pilgrims are now about to enter upon a new era-to leave
their privacy in the wilderness, and commence a more public
scene-perhaps alluding to Bunyan's being publicly set apart to
the work of the ministry. It was in the discharge of these public
duties that he was visited with such severe persecution. This
interview with Evangelist reminds one of the setting apart of
Dissenting ministers. It is usual, on these occasions, for the
Christians entering on such important duties, to give a short
account of what "had happened in the way," and their reasons for
hoping that they were called by God to the work. They receive the
advice of their ministering elder, and the pastor prays for their
peace and prosperity. Evangelist's address would make a good outline
of an ordination sermon. Bunyan's account of his being thus set
apart in 1656 (with seven other members of the same church) is
narrated in Grace Abounding, Nos. 266-270. The second address of
Evangelist peculiarly relates to the miseries endured by Nonconformist
ministers in the reign of Charles II-(ED).

[136] Shall the world venture their soul's ruin for a poor corruptible
crown; and shall not we venture the loss of a few trifles for an
eternal crown? Shall they venture the loss of eternal life for
communion with base, drunken, covetous wretches; and shall we not
labour as hard, run as fast, nay, a hundred times more diligently,
for such glorious and eternal friends as God to love, Christ
to redeem, the Holy Spirit to comfort, and saints and angels in
Heaven for company? Shall it be said at the last day, that the
wicked made more haste to hell than you to Heaven? O let it not
be so, but run with all might and main! They that will have Heaven
must run for it, because the devil will follow them. There is
never a poor soul that is gone to it, but he is after that soul.
And I assure them the devil is nimble; he is light of foot, and
can run apace. He hath overtaken many, tripped up their heels,
and given them an everlasting fall--(Heavenly Footman).

[137] Bunyan illustrates the care of Christ for his afflicted ones
with striking simplicity. "I love to play the child with children.
I have met with a child that had a sore finger, so that it was
useless. Then have I said, Shall we cut off this finger, and buy
my child a better, a brave golden finger? At this he started, and
felt indignation against me. Now, if a child has such tenderness
for a useless member, how much more tender is the Son of God to
his afflicted members?"-(Saint's Privilege, vol. 1, p. 674). The
text here quoted forms the foundation of Bunyan's admirable Advice
to Sufferers, in which he delightfully dwells upon the topics
which Evangelist addresses to the Pilgrims, when on the verge of
bitter persecution-(ED).

[138] Vanity Fair is the City of Destruction in its gala dress,
in its most seductive and sensual allurements. It is this world in
miniature, with its various temptations. Hitherto we have observed
the pilgrims by themselves, in loneliness, in obscurity, in the
hidden life and experience of the people of God. The allegory
thus far has been that of the soul, amidst its spiritual enemies,
toiling towards Heaven; now there comes a scene more open, tangible,
external; the allurements of the world are to be presented, with
the manner in which the true pilgrim conducts himself amidst
them. It was necessary that Bunyan should show his pilgrimage in
its external as well as its secret spiritual conflicts; it was
necessary that he should draw the contrast between the pursuits
and deportment of the children of this world and the children
of light; that he should show how a true pilgrim appears, and is
likely to be regarded, who, amidst the world's vanities, lives
above the world, is dead to it, and walks through it as a stranger
and a pilgrim towards Heaven-(Cheever).

[139] A just description of this wicked world. How many, though
they profess to be pilgrims, have never yet set one foot out of
this fair; but live in it all the year round! They "walk according
to the course of this world" (Eph. 2:2); for "the god of this
world hath blinded their minds" (1 Cor. 4:4). But all those for
whose sins Jesus hath died "He delivers from this present evil
world" (Gal. 1:4). You cannot be a pilgrim, if you are not delivered
from this world and its vanities; for if you love the world, if
it has your supreme affections, the love of God is not in you, (1
John 2:15); you have not one grain of precious faith in precious
Jesus-(Mason).

[140] Mr. James, who, in 1815, published the "Pilgrim" in verse,
conjectures that Bunyan's description of the Fair arose from
his having been at Sturbridge Fair, near Cambridge. It was thus
described in 1786-"The shops or booths are built in rows like
streets, having each its name; as Garlick Row, Bookseller's Row,
Cook Row, &c. Here are all sorts of traders, who sell by wholesale
or retail; as goldsmith's toymen, braziers, turners, milliners,
haberdashers, hatters, mercers, drapers, pewterers, china warehouses,
and in a word, most trades that can be found in London. Here are
also taverns, coffee-houses, and eating-houses, in great plenty.
The chief diversions are puppets, rope-dancing, and music booths.
To this Fair, people from Bedfordshire and the adjoining counties
still resort. Similar kinds of fairs are now kept at Frankfort and
Leipzig. These mercantile fairs were very injurious to morals;
but not to the extent of debauchery and villany, which reign in
our present annual fairs, near the metropolis and large cities."
See an account of this fair in Hone's Year Book, page 1538-(ED).
Our author evidently designed to exhibit in his allegory the grand
outlines of the difficulties, temptations, and sufferings, to
which believers are exposed in this evil world; which, in a work
of this nature, must be related as if they came upon them one
after another in regular succession; though in actual experience
several may meet together, many may molest the same person again
and again, and some harass him in every stage of his journey. We
should, therefore, singly consider the instruction conveyed by
every allegorical incident, without measuring our experience, or
calculating our progress, by comparing them with circumstances
which might be reversed or altered with almost endless variety.
In general, Vanity Fair represents the wretched state of things
in those populous places especially, where true religion is
neglected and persecuted; and, indeed, "in the whole world lying
in wickedness," as distinguished from the church of "redeemed
sinners"-(Scott).

[141] Christ will not allow his followers to bury their talent in
the earth, or to put their light under a bushel; they are not to
go out of the world, or to retire into cloisters, monasteries,
or deserts; but they MUST all go through this fair. Thus our Lord
endured all the temptations and sufferings of this evil world,
without being impeded or entangled by them, or stepping in the
least aside to avoid them; and he was exposed to greater enmity
and contempt than any of His followers-(Scott).

[142] The world will seek to keep you out of Heaven with mocks,
flouts, taunts, threatenings, jails, gibbets, halters, burnings,
and deaths. There ever was enmity between the seed of the serpent
and the seed of the woman, and no endeavours can reconcile them.
The world says, They will never come over to us; and we again say,
By God's grace we will not go over to them.

[143] Holy Hunt of Hitchin, as he was called, a friend of Bunyan's,
passing the market-place where mountebanks were performing, one
cried after him, "Look there, Mr. Hunt!" Turning his head another
way, he replied, "Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity"-(Ivimey).

[144] An odd reply. What do they mean? That they are neither
afraid nor ashamed to own what was the one subject of their souls'
pursuit-the truth. Understand hereby, that the whole world, which
lieth in wickedness, is deceived by a lie, and is under the delusion
of the father of lies. In opposition to this, all believers in
Christ are said to be of the truth (1 John 3:19). They know and
believe that capital truth with which God spake from Heaven, "This
is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matt. 3:17). This
truth-that Jesus is the Son of God, and our only Saviour-lies at the
foundation of all their hope; and to get more and more acquainted
with Him, is the grand object of their pursuits. For this the
world hates them; and Satan, who is an enemy to this truth, stirs
up the world against them. "For," says our Lord, "they are not of
the world, even as I am not of the world" (John 17:16)-(Mason).

[145] In 1670, the town porters of Bedford being commanded to
assist in a brutal attack upon the Nonconformists, ran away,
saying, "They would be hanged, drawn, and quartered, before they
would assist in that work"; for which cause the justices committed
two of them (which they could take) to the jail. The shops were
shut up, so that it seemed like a place visited with the pest,
where usually is written upon the door, "Lord, have mercy upon
us!"-(Narrative of Proceedings against Nonconformists, p. 5. 4to,
1670).

[146] This is a true representation of what took place in England
in Bunyan's time. It was a disgrace to our nation, that Englishmen,
urged on by a fanatic church, treated two young and interesting
women with a barbarity that would make savages (so called) blush.
It was at Carlisle that two female pilgrims, Dorothy Waugh and
Ann Robinson, were dragged through the streets, with each an iron
instrument of torture, called a bridle, upon their heads; and were
treated with gross indecency-(ED).

[147] The great object of the Gospel is to fit man for his active
duties in this world, and prepare him for heavenly enjoyments in
the world to come. Not like those lazy creeping things that shut
themselves up in nunneries or monasteries to avoid the temptations
and troubles, the resistance or hearing of which glorifies God.
Christians are to be as lights-not hid under a bushel but seen of
all men. The prayer of their Lord was and is, not that they should
be taken out of the world, but kept from its evil contaminations-(ED).

[148] In Bunyan's account of his imprisonment, he closes it with
these words-"Thus have I, in short, declared the manner and occasion
of my being in prison; where I lie waiting the good will of God
to do with me as He pleaseth; knowing that not one hair of my head
can fall to the ground without the will of my Father which is in
Heaven. Let the rage and malice of men be ever so great, they can
do no more, nor go any further, than God permits them. When they
have done their worst, 'we know that all things work together for
good to them that love God'" (Rom. 8:28).

[149] The description of the process against the pilgrims, is
framed in such a manner as emphatically to expose the secret reasons
which influence men thus to persecute their innocent neighbours.
The very names employed declare the several corrupt principles of
the heart from whence this atrocious conduct results-(Scott).

[150] This is one of Satan's lies, much used by his emissaries,
to the present day. A Christian fears God, and honours the king;
he renders unto civil government that which belongs to civil and
temporal things, but he dares not render unto Caesar the things
that belong to God; and for thus righteously doing he is called
disloyal-(ED).

[151] Superstition, or false devotion, is a most bitter enemy to
Christ's truth and his followers. This fellow's evidence is very
true; for as the lawyer said of Christ's doctrine, "Master, thus
saying, thou reproachest us also" (Luke 11:45). So false worshippers,
who rest in forms, and rites, and shadows, are stung to the quick
at those who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus,
and have no confidence in the flesh; such a conduct pours the
utmost contempt upon all the will-worship, and doctrines, and
superstition of carnal men-(Mason). With such, traditions, human
inventions, forms, and externals, appear venerable and sacred; and
they are mistaken with pertinaceous ignorance for the substance
of religion. What is pompous and burdensome appears to such men
meritorious; and the excitement of mere natural passions, as at a
tragedy, is falsely deemed a needful help to true devotion. Their
zeal hardens their hearts, and causes bitter rage, enmity, and
calumny, against the pious Christians-(Scott).

[152] As soon as the poor sinner says, "O Lord our God, other lords
beside Thee have had dominion over us: but by Thee only will we
make mention of Thy name" (Isa. 26:13), your officious Pickthanks
are always ready to bear testimony against him; and a blessed
testimony this is; it is well worth living to gain, and dying in
the cause of. If we are real disciples of Christ, we shall, as
He did, testify of the world that the works thereof are evil, and
the world will hate us for His sake (John 7:7)-(Mason). Pickthank
has no real principle, but puts on zeal for any party that will
promote his interests; he inwardly despises both the superstitious
and the spiritual worshipper-(Scott).

[153] This is the Christian's plea and glory. While he knows "the
tender mercies of the wicked are cruel" (Prov. 12:10), yet he
also knows that the "merciful kindness of the Lord is great, and
the truth of the Lord endureth forever" (Psa. 118:2)-(Mason).

[154] A more just and keen satirical description of such legal
iniquities can scarcely be imagined, than that contained in this
passage. The statutes and precedents adduced, with a humourous
reference to the style in which charges are commonly given to
juries, show what patterns persecutors choose to copy, and whose
kingdom they labour to uphold. Nor can any impartial man deny
that the inference is fair, which our author meant the reader to
deduce, namely, that nominal Protestants, enacting laws requiring
conformity to their own creeds and forms, and inflicting punishments
on such as peaceably dissent from them, are actually involved in
the guilt of these heathen persecutors--(Scott).

[155] These words, and this trial, were quoted (January 25, 1848)
by the Attorney-General, at Westminster Hall, in answer to the
manner in which Dr. Hampden was then charged with heresy by the
Puseyites-(ED).

[156] If the Lord were to leave us in the hands of men, we should
still find that their tender mercies are cruel. Such a jury as
tried Faithful might be found in every county of Britain-(Burder).
To this may be added, that the witnesses are still living-(ED).

[157] Nothing can be more masterly than the satire contained in
this trial. The judge, the witnesses, and the jury, are portraits
sketched to the life, and finished, every one of them, in quick,
concise, and graphic touches; the ready testimony of Envy is
especially characteristic. Rather than anything should be wanting
that might be necessary to despatch the prisoner, he would enlarge
his testimony against him to any requisite degree. The language
and deportment of the judge are a copy to the life of some of
the infamous judges under King Charles, especially Jefferies. You
may find, in the trial of the noble patriot Algernon Sidney, the
abusive language of the judge against Faithful almost word for
word. The charge to the jury, with the Acts and laws on which the
condemnation of the prisoner was founded, wax full of ingenuity
and meaning-(Cheever).

[158] Bunyan gives a good portrait of Faithful in his Howe of
Lebanon, referring to the character of Pomporius Algerius, mentioned
in Fox's Book of Martyrs. "Was not this man, think you, a giant?
did he not behave himself valiantly? was not his mind elevated a
thousand degrees beyond sense, carnal reason, fleshly love, and
the desires of embracing temporal things? This man had got that
by the end that pleased Him; neither could all the flatteries,
promises, threats, reproaches, make him once listen to, or inquire
after, what the world, or the glory of it could afford. His mind
was captivated with delights invisible. He coveted to show his
love to his Lord, by laying down his life for His sake. He longed
to be where there shall be no more pain, nor sorrow, nor sighing,
nor tears, nor troubles. He was a man of a thousand!" Speaking
of the pillars in that house at Lebanon, he says, "These men had
the faces of lions, they have triumphed in the flames."

[159] This is a most exquisitely beautiful sketch; it is drawn to
the life from many an era of pilgrimage in this world; there are
in it the materials of glory, that constituted spirits of such noble
greatness as are catalogued in the eleventh of Hebrews-traits of
cruel mockings and scourgings, bonds and imprisonments-(Cheever).

[160] Political interests engage ungodly princes to promote
toleration, and chain up the demon of persecution. The cruelties
they exercise disgust the people, and they are disheartened by
the ill success of their efforts to extirpate the hated sect-(Scott).

[161] I have often recorded it with thankfulness, that though in
the dreary day of my pilgrimage, the Lord hath taken away a dear
and faithful Christian friend, yet he has always raised up another.
A very great blessing this, for which Christians can never be
thankful enough-(Mason).

[162] Is not this too much the case with professors of this day?
The Spirit of truth says, "All that will live godly in Christ
Jesus shall suffer persecution" (2 Tim. 3:12). But how many act
as if they had found the art of making the Spirit of truth a liar!
for they can so trim and shape their conduct, as they vainly think
to follow Christ, and yet to keep in with the world, which is at
enmity against Him-a most fatal and soul-deceiving error-(Mason).

[163] What is this something that By-ends knew more than all the
world? How to unite Heaven and hell-how to serve God and Mammon-how
to be a Christian and a hypocrite at the same time. O the depth of
the depravity of the human heart; alas! how many similar characters
now exist, with two tongues in one mouth, looking one way and
rowing another-(ED).

[164] Fear not, therefore, in her for to abide, She keeps her ground,
come weather, wind, or tide.--(Bunyan's House of God, vol. 2, p.
579). If we will follow Christ, He tells us that we must take up
our cross. The wind sets always on my face; and the foaming rage
of the sea of this world, and the proud and lofty waves thereof
do continually beat upon the sides of the bark, or ship, that
myself, my cause, and my followers are in-(Bunyan's Greatness of
the Soul, vol. 1, p. 107).

[165] Mind how warily these pilgrims acted to this deceitful
professor. They did not too rashly take up an ill opinion against
him; but when they had full proof of what he was, they did not hesitate
one moment, but dealt faithfully with him, and conscientiously
withdrew from him-(Mason). In a letter written in 1661, from Exeter
jail, by Mr. Abraham Chear, a Baptist minister of Plymouth, who
suffered greatly for nonconformity, and at length died in a state
of banishment, there is this remark, "We have many brought in here
daily, who go out again almost as soon, for a week in a prison
tries a professor more than a month in a church"-(Ivimey).

[166] It might have been supposed that the persons here introduced
were settled inhabitants of the town of Vanity, or the City
of Destruction; but, indeed, they professed themselves pilgrims,
and desired, during the "sunshine," to associate with pilgrims,
provided they would allow them to hold the world, love money,
and save all, whatever became of faith and holiness, of honesty,
piety, truth, and charity?-(Scott).

[167] Pretended friends come with such expostulations as these:
Why, dear Sir, will you give such offence? How much would it be
for your comfort and interest in the world if you would but be a
little more complying, and give way in some particular points and
phrases. O what a syren's song! May the Lord enable every faithful
servant to reply, "Get thee behind me, Satan"-(J. B.).

[168] These words of Solomon are thus wickedly misapplied by many
to the present day. Ecclesiastes 7:16, 17 probably refers to the
administration of justice which should be tempered with mercy, but
not with laxity; or it may refer to the foolish opinions expressed
upon the characters of Pharisee and publican, exalting the one
or decrying the other overmuch. It cannot be meant to censure
the utmost efforts after true righteousness, nor to sanction the
slightest degree of wickedness-(ED).

[169]Woe unto them who wander from the way. Art bound for hell,
against all wind and weather? Or art thou one agoing backward
thither? Or dost thou wink, because thou would'st not see? Or dost
thou sideling go, and would'st not be Suspected Yet these prophets
can thee tell, Which way thou art agoing down to hell.--(Acts
7:20-22. Bunyan's House of God, vol. 2, p. 582).

[170] Notwithstanding By-ends could be reserved with faithful
pilgrims, yet he can speak out boldly to those of his own spirit
sad character. O the treacherous deceivings of the desperate
wickedness of the human heart! Who can know it? No one but the
heart-searching God-(Mason).

[171] Some men's hearts are narrow upwards, and wide downwards:
narrow as for God, but wide for the world. They gape for the one,
but shut themselves up against the other. The heart of a wicked
man is widest downward; but it is not so with the righteous man.
His desires, like the temple Ezekiel saw in the vision, are still
widest upwards, and spread towards Heaven. A full purse, with a
lean soul, is a great curse. Many, while lean in their estates,
had fat souls; but the fattening of their estates has made their
souls as lean as a rake as to good-(Bunyan's Righteous Man's
Desires, vol. 1, p. 745).

[172] This dialogue is not in the least more absurd and selfish
than the discourse of many who now attend on the preaching of the
Gospel. If worldly lucre be the honey, they imitate the bee, and
only attend to religion when they can gain by it; they determine
to keep what they have at any rate, and to get more, if it can be
done without open scandal-(Scott).

[173] There is a fund of satirical humour in the supposed case
here very gravely stated; and if the author, in his accurate
observations on mankind, selected his example from among the
mercenaries that are the scandal of the Established Church, her
most faithful friends will not greatly resent this conduct of
a dissenter-(Scott). Dr. Paley would have done well to have read
this chapter in Bunyan before composing some of the chapters in
his Moral Philosophy, and his Sermon on the Utility of Distinctions
in the Ministry-(Cheever).

[174] Here is worldly wisdom, infernal logic, and the sophistry of
Satan. We hear this language daily, from money-loving professors,
who are destitute of the power of faith. But in opposition to all
this, the Holy Ghost testifies, "The love of money is the root of
all evil" (1 Tim. 6:10), and a covetous man is an idolater (Col.
3:5). Hear this, and tremble, ye avaricious professors. Remember,
ye followers of the Lamb, ye are called to "let your conversation
be without covetousness" (Heb, 13:5); your Lord testifies, "Ye
cannot serve God and Mammon" (Luke 16:13)--(Mason).

[175] How doth this commend itself to those who make merchandise
of souls. What swarms of such locusts are there in this day!-(J.B.).

[176] If thou art one who tradeth in both ways: God's now, the
devil's then; or if delays Thou mak'st of coming to thy God for
life; Or if thy light and lusts are at a strife About who should
be master of thy soul, And lovest one, the other dost control;
These prophets tell thee can which way thou bendest, On which thou
frown'st, to which a hand thou lendest.--(Titus 1:16. See vol. 2,
p. 582).

[177] Bunyan, in his Holy Life the Beauty of Christianity, thus
addresses such characters: "This is the man that hath the breath
of a dragon; he poisons the air round about him. This is the man
that slays his children, his kinsmen, his friend, and himself-he
that offends God's little ones. O the millstone that God will
shortly hang about your neck, when the time is come that you must
be drowned in the sea and deluge of God's wrath!"-(See vol. 2, p.
539). The answer of Christian, though somewhat rough, is so conclusive
as to fortify every honest mind against all the arguments which
the whole tribe of time-serving professors ever did, or ever can
adduce, in support of their ingenious schemes and insidious efforts
to reconcile religion with covetousness and the love of the world,
or to render it subservient to their secular interests-(Scott).

[178] Here see the blessedness of being mighty in the Scripture,
and the need of that exhortation, "Let the Word of Christ dwell
in you richly" (Col. 3:16). For the Word of God is quick and
powerful, and sharper than a two-edged sword; it pierces through
all the subtle devices of Satan, and the cunning craftiness
of carnal professors; and divideth asunder the carnal reasonings
of the flesh, and the spiritual wisdom which cometh from above.

Teach me, my God and King,
In all things THEE to see, 
And what I do in any thing
To do it as for THEE--(Mason).

[179] The Hill Lucre stands somewhat out of the way, but temptingly
near. They that will profit by the mine must turn aside for it (Prov.
28:20, 22). Sir J. Mandeville, in his Travels, says, that in the
Vale Perilous is plenty of gold and silver, and many Christian
men go in for the treasure, but few come out again, for this are
strangled of the devil. But good Christian men, that are stable
in the faith, enter without peril-(ED).

[180] Eve expected some sweet and pleasant sight, that would tickle
and delight her deluded fancy; but, behold sin, and the wrath of
God, appear to the shaking of her heart; and thus, even to this
day, doth the devil delude the world. His temptations are gilded
with sweet and fine pretences, that men shall be wiser, richer,
more in favour, live merrier, fare better, or something; and by
such like things the fools are easily allured. But when their eyes
are opened, instead of seeing what the devil falsely told them,
they see themselves involved in wrath-(Bunyan on Genesis, vol. 2.
p. 431).

[181] Here you see the end of double-minded men, who vainly attempt
to temper the love of money with the love of Christ. They go on
with their art for a season, but the end makes it manifest what
they were. Take David's advice, "Fret not thyself because of
evil-doers" (Psa. 37:1) "Be not thou afraid when one is made rich,
when the glory of his house is increased" (Psa. 49:16). But go
thou into the sanctuary of thy God, read His Word, and understand
the end of these men-(Mason). Often, as the motley reflexes of my
experience move in long processions of manifold groups before me,
the distinguished and world-honoured company of Christian mammonists
appear to the eye of my imagination as a drove of camels heavily
laden, yet all at full speed; and each in the confident expectation
of passing through the eye of the needle, without stop or halt,
both beasts and baggage-(Coleridge).

[182] I have sometimes wondered at Lot. His wife looked behind
her, and died immediately; but he would not so much as look behind
him to see her. We do not read that he did so much as once look
where she was, or what was become of her. His heart was set upon
his journey; and well it might. There were the mountains before
him, and the fire and brimstone behind him. His life lay at stake;
and had he looked behind him he had lost it. Do thou so run, and
"remember Lot's wife"-(Bunyan's Heavenly Footman).

[183] In former times, the purse was carried hanging to a girdle
round the waist, and great dexterity was requisite to cut and carry
it away without the knowledge of the owner. Public executions for
theft had so little effect in repressing crime, that thefts were
committed in sight of, or even under the gallows-(ED).

[184] Alas! poor pilgrims, like Peter, you soon forgot the judgment,
although your sight of Lot's wife had so affected your spirits.
How soon yon went into By-path Meadow! "wherefore, let him that
thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall" (1 Cor. 10:12)-(ED).

[185] By this river, which is called "a pure river of water of
life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and
of the Lamb" (Rev. 22:1), we may understand clear and comfortable
views of God's everlasting love and electing grace. They could see
in it God's glory shining in the face of Jesus Christ, and view
their own faces in it, to their inexpressible joy. This is the river
"the streams whereof make glad the city of God" (Psa. 46:4). The
stream which flow from this river of electing love, are vocation
to Christ, justification by Christ, sanctification in Christ,
perseverance through Christ, glorification with Christ, and all
joy and peace in believing on Christ. All this these pilgrims now
enjoyed, and all this every fellow-citizen of the saints is called
to enjoy in his pilgrimage to Zion. God hath chosen us in Christ,
and blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Him. O how happy,
peaceful, and joyful are pilgrims, when the Spirit takes of the
things of Christ, shows them to us, and blesses us with a sense
of interest in all the love of God, and finished salvation of
Jesus!-(Mason).

[186] Blessed state indeed, but of short duration! Too often these
desirable consolations of the Spirit render the Christian careless
and unwatchful-(Burder).

[187] A scene to soothe and calm a mind fretted and harassed with
the cares and turmoils of this every-day world; a sunny vista
into the future, welcome in a weary hour to the worn spirit, which
longs, as for the wings of the dove, that it may flee away, and
be at rest; a glimpse of Sabbath quietness on earth, given as a
pledge and foretaste of the more glorious and eternal Sabbath of
Heaven-(Bernard Barton).

[188] Now had I an evidence, as I thought, of my salvation from
Heaven, with many golden seals thereon, all hanging in my sight.
Now could I remember the manifestations of grace with comfort;
and longed that the last day were come, that I might forever be
inflamed with the sight, and joy, and communion with Him, whose
soul was made an offering for my sins. Before this I lay trembling
at the mouth of hell; now I had got so far therefrom that I could
scarce discern it. O, thought I, that I were fourscore years old,
that I might die quickly, and my soul be gone to rest--(Grace
Abounding, No. 128).

[189] They should have said, It is true this way is not so pleasant
as the meadow, but it is the Lord's way, and the best, doubtless,
for us to travel in. A man speedily enters into temptation when
he becomes discontented with God's allotments; then Satan presents
allurements, and from wishing for a better way, the soul goes into
a worse. The discontented wish is father to a sinful will; I wish
for a better is followed by, I will have a better, and so the
soul goes astray-(Cheever).

[190] The transition into the by-path is easy, for it lies close
to the right way; only you must get over a stile, that is, you must
quit Christ's imputed righteousness, and trust in your own inherent
righteousness; and then you are in By-path Meadow directly-(Mason).

[191] The best caution I can give to others, or take myself, is, not
to be guided in matters of faith by men, but to make the Scriptures
our only rule-to look to God for the teaching of His blessed
Spirit, that He may keep our feet from the ways of death-(J.B.).

[192] "There is a way that seems right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death" (Prov. 14:12). Vain confidence is
this very way. O how easy do professors get into it! yea, real
pilgrims are prone also to take up with it, owing to that legality,
pride, and self-righteousness, which work in their fallen mature.
See the end of it, and tremble; for it leads to darkness, and
ends in death. Lord, humble our proud hearts, and empty us of
self-righteousness, pride, and vain confidence-(Mason).

[193] So, sometimes, real pilgrims take counsel and example of
strangers, of worldly men, and of presumptuous careless persons.
Vain confidence is a sad guide anywhere, but especially when one
has wandered out of the way--(Cheever).

[194] If thou be prying into God's secret decrees, or entertain
questions about nice curiosities, thou mayest stumble and fall
to thine eternal ruin. Take heed of that lofty spirit, that,
devil-like, cannot be content with its own station--(Heavenly
Footman).

[195] The thunder and lightning plainly show that this by-path leads
to Sinai, not to Zion. One step over the stile, by giving way to
a self-righteous spirit, and you enter the territories of despair-(J.
B.).

[196] How varied is the experience of a Christian! he had just
before overcome Demas, and conquered By-ends and his companions;
is warned by Lot's wife, and now elated with the strength of his
principles; boldness takes the place of caution; he ventures upon
an easier path, and is involved in misery-(ED).

[197] When Bunyan pleaded, so energetically, for the communion of
saints, irrespective of water-baptism, one of his arguments was,
"The strongest may sometimes be out of the way." "Receive ye one
another as Christ also received us"-(Vol. 2, p. 610).

[198] Here see, that as Christians are made helpful, so also,
through prevailing corruptions, they are liable to prove hurtful
to each other. But observe how grace works: it humbles, it makes
the soul confess and be sorry for its misfortunes. Here is no
reviling one another; but a tender sympathy and feeling concern
for each other. O the mighty power of that grace and truth which
came by Jesus Christ! How does it cement souls in the fellowship
of love!--(Mason).

[199] How easy it is to trace the path that led the pilgrims astray!
To avoid the roughness of the way, they entered the by-path, that
by measures of carnal policy they might avoid afflictions. Guided
by Vain-confidence, they were led from the road, and when this
Vain-confidence was destroyed, they were involved in distress and
danger-(Ivimey).

[200] The personification of Despair is one of the most instructive
and beautiful portions of Bunyan's allegory. It appeals either to
every man's experience, or to every man's sense of what may come
upon him, on account of sin. It is at once, in some respects, the
very gloomiest and very brightest part of the "Pilgrim's Progress";
for it shows at once to what a depth of misery sin may plunge the
Christian, and also to what a depth the mercy of God in Christ
may reach. The colouring of the picture is extremely vivid, the
remembrance of it can never pass from the mind; and, as in a gallery
of beautiful paintings, there may often be one that so strongly
reminds you of your own experience, or that in itself is so
remarkably beautiful as to keep you dwelling upon it with unabated
interest; so it is with this delineation of Giant Despair, among
the many admirable sketches of Bunyan's piety and genius. It is
so full of deep life and meaning that you cannot exhaust it, and
it is of such exquisite propriety and beauty that you are never
tired with examining it-(Cheever).

[201] Sooner or later Doubting Castle will be the prison, and
Giant Despair the keeper of all those who turn aside from Christ
and His righteousness, to trust in any wise in themselves, and to
their righteousness. "Our God is a jealous God," ever jealous of
His own glory, and of the honour of His beloved Son-(Mason). So
under the old cut, illustrating the Pilgrims in Doubting Castle,
are these lines--"The pilgrims now, to gratify the flesh, Will seek
its ease; but O! how they afresh Do thereby plunge themselves new
griefs into! Who seek to please the flesh, themselves undo."

[202] Blessed sorrow! how many are there who never tasted the bread
of Heaven, nor the water of life from the wells of salvation; who
are strangers to the communion of saints, but do not feel themselves
to be "in evil case," nor have wept under a sense of their wretched
state-(ED).

[203] What! such highly-favoured Christians in Doubting Castle?
After having traveled so far in the way of salvation, seen so many
glorious things in the way, experienced so much of the grace and
love of their Lord, and having so often proved His faithfulness?
Is not this strange? No; it is common-the strongest Christians
are liable to err and get out of the way, and then to be beset
with very great and distressing doubts-(Mason). Despair, like
a tremendous giant, will at last seize on the souls of all
unbelievers; and when Christians conclude, from some misconduct,
that they belong to that company, they are exposed to be taken captive
by him. They do not, indeed, fall and perish with Vain-confidence;
but for a season they find it impossible to rise superior to
prevailing gloomy doubts bordering on despair, or to obtain the
least comfortable hope of deliverance, or encouragement to use
the proper means of seeking it-(Scott).

[204] The wife of Despair is Diffidence, or a distrust of God's
faithfulness, and a want of confidence in His mercy. When a
Christian follows such counsels, gloom and horror of mind will be
produced, and life become a burden--(Ivimey).

[205] Bunyan, in one of his delightful treatises of comfort against
despair, introduces the following striking colloquy-"Says Satan,
Dost thou not know that thou art one of the vilest in all the pack
of professors? Yes, says the soul, I do. Says Satan, Dost thou
not know that thou hast horribly sinned? Yes, says the soul, I
do. Well, saith Satan, now will I come upon thee with my appeals.
Art thou not a graceless wretch? Yes. Hast thou an heart to be
sorry for this wickedness? No, not as I should. And albeit, saith
Satan, thou prayest sometimes, yet is not thy heart possessed with
a belief that God will not regard thee? Yes, says the sinner. Why,
then, despair, and go hang thyself, saith the devil. And now we
are at the end of the thing designed and driven at by Satan. But
what shall I now do, saith the sinner? I answer, take up the words
of the text against him, "That ye may be able to comprehend the
breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love
of Christ, which passeth knowledge-(Saints' Knowledge of Christ's
Love, vol. 2, p. 37).

[206] Giant Despair, it seems, has fits in sunshiny weather;
that is, a gleam of hope, from Christ the Sun of righteousness,
sometimes darted into their minds-(Burder).

[207] Satan and his angels will not be wanting to help forward
the calamity of the man, who, in coming to Christ, is beat out
of breath, out of heart, out of courage, by wind that blows him
backward. They will not be wanting to throw up his heels in their
dirty places, nor to trouble his head with the fumes of their
foul breath. And now it is hard coming to God; Satan has the art
of making the most of every sin; he can make every hair on the head
as big as a cedar. But, soul, Christ can save unto the uttermost!
come, man, come. He can do exceeding abundantly above all we can
ask or think!-(Bunyan's Complete Saviour, vol. 1, p. 209). Poor
Christian! What! tempted to destroy thyself? Lord, what is man!
But see, despairing souls, mark the truth of that word, "There hath
no temptation taken you but such as is common to man; but God is
faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are
able; but will, with the temptation, also make a way to escape,
that ye may be able to bear it" (1 Cor. 10:13)-(Mason).

[208] Bunyan had an acute sense of the exceeding sinfulness of
sin, and no saint had suffered more severely from despair. One of
his great objects, in most of his works, is to arm poor pilgrims
against desponding fears. Thus, in his first treatise on Gospel
Truths-"He (the devil) will be sure to present to thy conscience
the most sad sentences of the Scripture; yea, and set them home
with such cunning arguments, that if it be possible he will make
thee despair, and make away thyself as did Judas"-(Vol. 2, p.132).
Sin, when seen in its colours, and when appearing in its monstrous
shape and hue, frighteth all mortals out of their wits, away from
God, and, if He stops them not, also out of the world. This is
manifest by Cain, Judas, Saul, and others. They fly from before
God, one to one fruit of despair, and one to another-(Pharisee
and Publican, vol. 2, p. 260).

[209] An admirable chain of reasoning, pointing out the evils of
despair, is to be found in the Jerusalem Sinner Saved (vol. 1,
pp. 91, 92), under the head Fifthly. "It will make a man his own
tormentor, and flounce and fling like a wild bull in a net (Isa.
51:20). Despair! it drives a man to the study of his own ruin, and
brings him at last to be his own executioner" (2 Sam. 17:3-5)-(ED).

[210] Alas, how chang'd! Expressive of his mind, His eyes are sunk,
arms folded, head reclin'd; Those awful syllables, hell, death, and
sin, Though whisper'd, plainly tell what works within.--(Cowper's
Hope).

"A wounded spirit who can bear?"

[211] To bring the state of Christian's mind before us, read the
lamentations of the Psalmist, when he was a prisoner in Doubting
Castle, under Giant Despair, in Psalm 88; and Bunyan's experience,
as narrated in No. 163 of Grace Abounding. Despair swallowed him
up, and that passage fell like a hot thunderbolt upon his conscience,
"He was rejected, for he found no place for repentance"-(Ivimey).

[212] Dr. Donne, the celebrated Dean of St. Paul's, had recently
published a thesis, to prove that suicide, under some circumstances,
was justifiable. Hopeful answers all his arguments, and proves
it to be the foulest of murders. Bunyan, in his treatise on
Justification, volume 1, page 314, thus notices the jailer's intent
to commit suicide, when the doors of the prison in which Paul was
confined were thrown open-"Even now, while the earthquake shook
the prison, he had murder in his heart-murder, I say, and that
of a high nature, even to have killed his own body and soul at
once"-(ED).

[213] Here is the blessing of a hopeful companion; here is excellent
counsel. Let vain professors say what they may against looking
back to past experiences, it is most certainly good and right so
to do; not to encourage present sloth and presumption, but to excite
fresh confidence of hope in the Lord. We have David's example, and
Paul's word to encourage us to this, "The Lord that delivered me
out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he
will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine" (1 Sam. 17:37);
and says Paul, "We had the sentence of death in ourselves, that
we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the
dead" (2 Cor. 1:9)-(Mason).

[214] It is a curious picture which Bunyan has drawn of the
intercourse between the giant and his wife Diffidence. They form
a very loving couple in their way; and the giant takes no new step
in the treatment of the pilgrims without consulting Mrs. Diffidence
over night, so that the curtain lectures to which we listen
are very curious. But Mrs. Diffidence ought rather to have been
called Dame Desperation, or Desperate Resolution; for she seems,
if anything, the more stubborn genius of the two-(Cheever). By
these conversations between Diffidence and Despair, after they
had retired to bed, Bunyan perhaps designed to intimate that, as
melancholy persons seldom get rest at night, the gloominess of
the season contributes to the distress of their minds. So Asaph
complains: "My sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul
refused to be comforted" (Psa. 67:2)-(Ivimey).

[215] How would the awful lesson of the man in the iron cage, at
the Interpreter's house, now recur to poor Christian's mind: "I
cannot get out, O now I cannot! I left off to watch, and am shut
up in this iron cage, nor can all the men in the world let me out."
Christian's answer to the despairing pilgrim now soon broke upon
his memory: "The Son of the Blessed is very pitiful"-(ED).

[216] What! Pray in the custody of Giant Despair, in the midst of
Doubting Castle, and when their own folly brought them there too?
Yes; mind this, ye pilgrims, ye are exhorted, "I will that men
pray everywhere, without doubting" (1 Tim. 2:8). We can be in no
place but God can hear, nor in any circumstance but God is able
to deliver us from. And be assured, that when the spirit of prayer
comes, deliverance is nigh at hand-(Mason). Perhaps the author
selected Saturday at midnight for the precise time when the prisoners
began to pray, in order to intimate that the preparation for the
Lord's day, which serious persons are reminded to make for its
sacred services, are often the happy means of recovering those
that have fallen into sin and despondency-(Scott).

[217] All at once, by a new revelation, which none but the Saviour
could make, Christian finds the promises. Christ had been watching
over his erring disciples-He kept back the hand of Despair from
destroying them-He binds up the broken heart, and healeth all
their wounds-(Cheever). As a key enters all the intricate wards
of a lock, and throws back its bolts, so the precious promises of
God in his Word, if turned by the strong hand of faith, will open
all the doors which unbelief and despair have shut upon us-(Burder).

[218] Bunyan was a plain-spoken man, and feared not to offend
delicate ears when truth required honest dealing. In his treatise
on the Law and Grace, he says: "And therefore, my brethren, seeing
God, our Father, hath sent us, damnable traitors, a pardon from
Heaven, even all the promises of the Gospel, and hath also sealed
to the certainty of it with the heart-blood of His dear Son, let
us not be daunted"-(Vol. 1, p. 562).

[219] Precious promise! The promises of God in Christ are the life
of faith, and the quickeners of prayer. O how oft do we neglect
God's great and precious promises in Christ Jesus, while doubts
and despair keep us prisoners! So it was with these pilgrims; they
were kept under hard bondage of soul for four days. Hence see what
it is to grieve the Spirit of God: for He only is the Comforter:
and if He withdraws His influences, who or what can comfort us?
Though precious promises are revealed in the Word, yet we can get
no comfort from them but by the grace of the Spirit-(Mason).

[220] It was Sabbath morning. The sun was breaking over the hills,
and fell upon their pale, haggard countenances, it was to them a
new creation; they breathed the fresh, reviving air, and brushed,
with hasty steps, the dew from the untrodden grass, and fled
the nearest way to the stile, over which they had wandered. They
had learned a lesson by suffering, which nothing else could have
taught them, and which would remain with them to the day of their
death--(Cheever). The experience of these "three or four" dreadful
days is specially recorded in Grace Abounding, (Nos. 261-263). The
key which opened the doors in Doubting Castle was these words,
applied with power to his soul, "I must go to Jesus," in connection
with Hebrews 12:22-24. Of the first night of his deliverance
he says, "I could scarcely lie in my bed for joy and peace, and
triumph through Christ"-(ED).

[221] They fell to devising what soldiers, and how many, Diabolus
should go against Mansoul with, to take it; and after some debate,
it was concluded that none were more fit for that expedition than
an army of terrible DOUBTERS. They therefore concluded to send
against Mansoul an army of sturdy doubters. Diabolus was to beat
up his drum for 20 or 30,000 men in the Land of Doubting, which
land lieth upon the confines of a place called Hell-gate Hill.
Captain Rage was over the election doubters; his were the red
colours; his standard-bearer was Mr. Destructive; and the great
red dragon he had for his scutcheon. Captain Fury was over the
vocation doubters; his standard-bearer was darkness; his colours
were pale; and his scutcheon the fiery flying serpent. Captain
Damnation was over the grace doubters; his were the red colours;
Mr. No-life bore them; his scutcheon was the Black Den, &c.-(Holy
War).

[222] When offending Christians are brought to deep repentance,
renewed exercises of lively faith, and willing obedience in those
self-denying duties which they had declined, the Lord "restores to
them the joy of His salvation," and their former comforts become
more abundant and permanent. The Delectable Mountains seem intended
to represent those calm seasons of peace and comfort-(Scott).

[223] O how many professors grow weary of the way, fall short, and
fail of coming to the end! Though the way be too far, too strait,
and too narrow for many who set out, and never hold out to the
end; yet all who are begotten by the Word of grace, and born of
the Spirit of truth, shall persevere to the end, being kept by
the mighty power of God, through faith, unto eternal salvation (1
Peter 1:5)-(Mason).

[224] There is in this laconic description of the homely dreamer
a richness of beauty which no efforts of the artist can adequately
portray; and in the concise dialogue of the speakers, a simple
sublimity of eloquence which any commentary could only weaken.
While our feelings are excited by this description, we cannot
but remember that "eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither have
entered into the heart of man: the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him"-(Bernard Barton).

[225] Precious names! What is a pilgrim without knowledge? What
is head-knowledge without heart-experience? And watchfulness and
sincerity ought to attend us every step. When these graces are in
us and abound, they make delectable mountains indeed-(Mason).

[226] Fine-spun speculations and curious reasonings lead men from
simple truth and implicit faith into many dangerous and destructive
errors-(Mason).

[227] It is well for us to be much on this mount. We have constant
need of caution. Take heed and beware, says our Lord. Paul takes
the Corinthians up to this Mount Caution, and shows them what
awful things have happened to professors of old; and he leaves
this solemn word for us, "Wherefore, let him that thinketh he
standeth, take heed lest he fall" (1 Cor. 10:12)-(Mason).

[228] O the unthought-of imaginations, frights, fears, and terrors,
that are effected by a thorough application of guilt, yielding
to desperation! This is the man that hath his dwelling among the
tombs with the dead, that is always crying out, and cutting himself
with stones (Mark 5:3). But all in vain; desperation will not
comfort him, the old covenant will not save him-(Grace Abounding,
No. 185).

[229] Some retain the name of Christ, and the notion of Him as a
Saviour; but cast Him off in the very things wherein the essential
parts of His sacrifice, merits, and priesthood consist. In this
lies the mystery of their iniquity. They dare not altogether deny
that Christ doth save His people, as a Priest; but then their
art is to confound His offices, until they jostle out of doors
the merit of His blood and the perfection of His justifying
righteousness. Such draw away the people from the cross (put out
their eyes), and lead them among the infidels-(Bunyan's Israel's
Hope, vol. 1, p. 615).

[230] Probably to guard pilgrims against the Popish doctrine of
auricular confession-(ED).

[231] Those seem to shun the common broad road; but having only the
mark of religion, while their hearts are not right with God, are
as effectually ruined as the most profligate and open offenders-(Burder).

[232] Thus we read of some who were once enlightened, and had
tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the world
to come (Heb. 6:6). It is hard to say how far or how long a person
may carry on a profession, and yet fall away, and come short of
the kingdom at last. This should excite to diligence, humility, and
circumspection, ever looking to Jesus to keep us from falling-(Mason).

[233] It reflects the highest credit on the diffidence of Bunyan's
genius-a genius as rich in its inventions, and as aspiring in
its imaginative flights, as ever poet could possess or lay claim
to-that, after such an exordium, he should have made no effort
minutely to describe what was in its own splendour of glory
indescribable. How beautifully, without exciting any disappointment
in a reader of taste, feeling, and judgment, does he, by a few
artless words, render most impressive and sublime, what more elaborate
description could only have made confused and unsatisfactory.
Nothing can be more admirable than this brief and indistinct report
of the perspective glass, it cannot offend the most fastidious taste,
yet leaves scope for the exercise of the most ardent and aspiring
imagination-(Bernard Barton). [234] Such mountains round about this
house do stand. As one from thence may see the Holy Land.--(Bunyan's
House of God, vol. 2, p. 579).

[235] After going through the conflict with Apollyon, the Valley
of the Shadow of Death, the scenes in Vanity Fair, and the dread
experience of the pilgrims in Giant Despair's Castle, it is well
to note what a gallery of solemn REALITIES is here, what a system
of Divine truth, commending itself to all men's consciences. It
is not so much the richness of imagination, nor the tenderness
of feeling here exhibited, nor the sweetness and beauty of the
imagery, with which this book is filled, as it is the presence
of these REALITIES that constitutes the secret of its unbounded
power over the soul. Walk up and down in this rich and solemn
gallery. How simple are its ornaments! How grave, yet beautiful,
its architecture! Amidst all this deep, serene beauty to the
imagination, by how much deeper a tone do these pictures speak to
the inner spiritual being of the soul! When you have admired the
visible beauty of the paintings, turn again to seek their meaning
in that light from eternity by which the artist painted them, and
by which he would have all men examine their lessons, and receive
and feel the full power of their colouring. In this light, the
walls of this gallery seem moving with celestial figures speaking
to the soul. They are acting the drama of a life which, by most
men, is only dreamed of; but the drama is the reality, and it is
the spectators only who are walking in a vain show-(Cheever).

[236] This is the first break in the dream, and, doubtless, had
an important meaning. Perhaps the pilgrimage may be divided into
four parts: 1. The convert flying from the wrath to come; instructed
at the Interpreter's house; relieved of his burden at the cross;
ascends the Hill Difficulty; overcomes his timidity; and, 2.
Enters a church at the House Beautiful; and, as a private member,
continues his journey, until, 3. He meets Evangelist, near Vanity
Fair, and is found fit to become an itinerant preacher; in which
calling he suffers persecution, and obtains that fitness which
enables him, 4. On the Delectable Mountains, to enter upon the
responsible duties of a ministering elder or pastor of a church,
and is ordained by Knowledge, Experience, Watchful, and Sincere.
Is this commencement of his public labours the important point
when the author "awoke from his dream"?-(ED).

[237] This country we are all born in; all are ignoramuses by
nature. Some live long in the country of Conceit, and many end
their days in it. Are you come out of it? So was Ignorance; but
he breathed his native air. So long as a sinner thinks he can do
anything towards making himself righteous before God, his name is
Ignorance; he is full of self-conceit, and destitute of the faith
of Christ-(Mason).

[238] Now, is it not very common to hear professors talk at this
rate? Yes, and many who make a very high profession too; their
hopes are plainly grounded upon what they are in themselves,
and how they differ from their former selves and other sinners,
instead of what Christ is to us and what we are in Christ. But the
profession of such is begun with an ignorant, whole, self-righteous
heart; it is continued in pride, self-seeking, and self-exalting,
and ends in awful disappointment. For such are called by our Lord
thieves and robbers; they rob Him of the glory of His grace and
the gift of His imputed righteousness-(Mason).

[239] It is best not to converse much at once with persons of
this character, but, after a few warnings, to leave them to
their reflections; for their self-conceit is often cherished by
altercations, in which they deem themselves very expert, however
disgusting their discourse may prove to others-(Scott).

[240] An awful scene was beheld by the pilgrims. A professor, named
Turn-away, bound with seven cords, was led by devils to the by-way
to hell. Let everyone inquire, Who is this wanton professor?-He
who discovers a trifling, worldly, wanton spirit, dreads not
the appearance of evil, complies with the fashions of the carnal
world, and associates with the enemies of our Lord; and, in time,
becomes a damnable apostate. Lord, keep us from such a beginning
and such an end!-(Burder).

[241] The "very dark lane" in which "Turn-away" was met by the
pilgrims, represents the total darkness of the minds of such
wicked professors; for "if the light that is in them be darkness,
how great is that darkness!" When their characters are made
manifest, they are ashamed to look their former pious friends in
the face. "The wicked shall be holden with the cords of his sins"
(Prov. 5:22)-(Ivimey).

[242] O beware of a light trifling spirit and a wanton behaviour.
It is often the forerunner of apostasy from God. It makes one tremble
to hear those who profess to follow Christ in the regeneration,
crying, What harm is there in this game and the other diversion?
The warmth of love is gone, and they are become cold, dead, and
carnal. O how many instances of these abound!-(Mason).

[243] In times of persecution, loose professors are driven down
Dead Man's Lane to Broad-way Gate; thus Satan murders the souls
of men, by threatening to kill their bodies. Believers that are
weak in faith are betrayed into sinful compliances; they sleep
when they ought to watch, they conceal or deny their profession,
and thus contract guilt; Faint-heart assaults them, Mistrust
plunders them, and Guilt beats them down-(Scott).

[244] The fly in the spider's net is the emblem of the soul in
such a condition. If the soul struggleth, Satan laboureth to hold
it down. If it make a noise, he bites it with blasphemous mouth;
insomuch that it must needs die at last in the net, if the Lord
Jesus help not. Believing is sure sweating work. Only strong
faith can make Satan flee. O the toil of a gracious heart in this
combat, if faith be weak! The man can get no higher than his knees,
till an arm from Heaven help him up-(Bunyan's Holy City).

[245] When Bunyan was imprisoned, his sentence was-To be transported,
if he did not conform in three months; and then, if found as a
Nonconformist, in this country, he should be hung. Determined at
all hazards not to be a traitor to his God, he anticipated being
hung; and was anxious, in such a cause, to meet death with firmness.
When his fears prevailed, he dreaded lest he should make but a
scrabbling shift to clamber up the ladder-(See Grace Abounding,
No. 334).

[246] Where there is a faint heart in God's cause, and mistrust
of God's truths, there will be guilt in the conscience, and but
little faith. These rogues will prevail over, and rob such souls
of the comforts of God's love and of Christ's salvation. By his
jewels, we may understand those radical graces of the Spirit-faith,
hope, and love. By his spending-money, the sealing and earnest of
the Spirit in his heart (2 Cor. 1:22). Of this Divine assurance,
and the sense of the peace and joy in the Holy Ghost, he was robbed;
so that, though he still went on in the ways of the Lord, yet he
dragged on but heavily and uncomfortably-(Mason).

[247] Bunyan throws great light upon this subject in his Christ
a Complete Saviour, (vol. 1, p. 215)-"We are saved by Christ;
brought to glory by Christ; and all our works are no otherwise made
acceptable to God, but by the person and excellencies of Christ.
Therefore, whatever the jewels are, and the bracelets and the
pearls that thou shalt be adorned with, as a reward of service
done to God in this world, for them thou must thank Christ, and,
before all, confess that He was the meritorious cause thereof."

[248] What was this good thing? His precious faith, whose author,
finisher, and object is precious Jesus. And where he gives this
precious gift of faith, though it be but little, even as a grain
of mustard-seed, not all the powers of earth and hell can rob the
heart of it. Christ prayed for His disciple that his faith should
not fail, or be totally lost; therefore, though Peter lost his
comforts for a season, yet not his faith totally, not his soul
eternally; for, says Jesus, of all his dear flock, yea, of those
of little faith too, None shall pluck them out of My hand. There
is one blessed security, not in ourselves, but in our Lord-(Mason).

[249] Hope, love, humility, meekness, patience, longsuffering,
compassion, and mercy, are gracious dispositions wrought in the
heart by the Holy Ghost. These are the believer's jewels; and it
is his duty to keep them clean, that their beauty and lustre may
be apparent-(Andronicus).

[250] Little-faith cannot come all the way without crying. So
long as its holy boldness lasts, so long it can come with peace,
but it will go the rest of the way with crying-(Bunyan's Come and
Welcome, vol. 1, p. 288).

[251] Bunyan shows the difference between "his spending-money," or
that treasure which the Christian carries in his earthen vessel,
and his jewels, in Grace Abounding (No. 232)-"It was glorious to
me to see His [Christ's] exaltation. Now I could look from myself
to Him, and should reckon that all those graces of God that
now were green in me, were yet but like those cracked groats and
fourpence-halfpennies, (Irish sixpences, which, in the dearth of
silver coin in England, were made current at fourpence-halfpenny-ED),
that rich men carry in their purses, when their GOLD is in their
trunks at home. Oh! I saw that my gold was in my trunk at home,
in Christ my Lord and Saviour. Now, Christ was all; all my wisdom,
all my righteousness, all my sanctification, and all my redemption."

[252] Hopeful was not the first pilgrim who has been "almost made
angry" while holding a friendly debate upon that highly-important
subject, the doctrine of the saints' final perseverance. Pilgrims
ought to debate upon those subjects without being angry-(ED).

[253] Hopeful here expresses himself as if he had read Bunyan on
Christ's Love-"But to fear man is to forget God. He taketh part
with them that fear HIM; so that we may boldly say, "The Lord is
my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me" (Heb.
13:6). Would it not be amazing to see a man encompassed with
chariots, and horses, and weapons of defence, yet afraid of being
sparrow-blasted, or overrun by a grasshopper?"-(Vol. 2, p. 13).

[254] Who can stand in the evil day of temptation, when beset with
Faint-heart, Mistrust, and Guilt, backed by the power of their
master, Satan? No one, unless armed with the whole armour of God;
and even then, the power of such infernal foes makes it a hard
fight to the Christian. But this is our glory, the Lord shall
fight for us, and we shall hold our peace. We shall be silent as
to ascribing any glory to ourselves, knowing our very enemies are
part of ourselves, and that we are more than conquerors over all
these (only) through HIM who loved us (Rom. 8:37)-(Mason).

[255] "One Great-grace"; a believer, or minister, who having
honourably stood his ground, endeavours to restore the fallen. The
remembrance of such, helps to drive away despondency, and inspires
the trembling penitent with hope of mercy-(Scott).

[256] "I trow"; I imagine or believe: nearly obsolete-(ED).

[257] Now here you see what is meant by Great-grace, who is so
often mentioned in this book, and by whom so many valiant things
were done. We read, "With great power the apostles gave witness
of the resurrection of Jesus." Why was it? Because "great grace
was upon them all" (Acts 4:33). So you see all is of grace, from
first to last, in salvation. If we do great things for Christ,
yet, not unto us, but unto the great grace of our Lord, be all
the glory-(Mason).

[258] If we saw our own weakness, we should never court dangers,
nor run in the way of temptation; yet, if our temptations be ever
so sharp and strong, and our dangers ever so great, if the Lord
is our strength, we need not fear-(J. B.).

[259] From this sweet and edifying conversation, learn not to
think more highly of yourself than you ought to think; but to
think soberly, according to the measure of faith which God hath
dealt to you (Rom. 12:3). Now, it is of the very essence of faith
to lead us out of all self-confidence and vain vaunting. For we
know not how soon Faint-heart, Mistrust, and Guilt may spring up
in us, and rob us of our comforts, and spoil our joys-(Mason).

[260] Instead of saying, "Though all men deny thee, yet will not
I," it behooves us to use all means of grace diligently, and to
be instant in prayer, that the Lord Himself may protect us by His
power, and animate us by His presence, and then only shall we be
enabled to overcome both the fear of man and the temptations of
the devil-(Scott).

[261] But how contrary to this is the walk and conduct of some who
profess to be pilgrims, and yet can willfully and deliberately go
upon the devil's ground, and indulge themselves in carnal pleasures
and sinful diversions! Such evidently declare in plain language,
that they desire not the presence of God, but that He should
depart from them; but a day will come which will bring on terrible
reflections of mind for such things-(Mason).

[262] Mr. Ivimey's opinion is, that this "way which put itself
into their way," and the flatterer, relates to Antinomianism. Of
this I can form no accurate judgment, never having met with an
Antinomian, or one who professed to be against the law of God. I
have met with those who consider that believers are bound to prefer
the law of God as revealed by Jesus Christ, in Matthew 22:37-40,
to be their rule of life, instead of limiting themselves to the
law of God as given by Moses, in Exodus 20; but it has been for
this reason, that the law proclaimed by Christ unites in it the
law given by Moses, and ALL the law and the prophets. This law,
as given by Christ, is in a few words of beautiful simplicity,
which can neither be misunderstood nor be forgotten. Mason says,
"It is plain the author means the way of self-righteousness," into
which the flatterer enticed the pilgrims, out of the Scripture
highway to Heaven, in the righteousness of Christ. When ministers
differ, private Christians must think for themselves. My judgment
goes with Mr. Mason-(ED). This way, which seemed as straight
as the right way, and in entering on which there was no stile to
be passed, must denote some very plausible and gradual deviation
from the simplicity of the Gospel, in doctrine or practice. If,
in such a case, instead of a personal prayerful searching the
Scripture, we rely upon the opinion of our friends, and listen
to the flatterer, we shall certainly be misled-(Scott).

[263] Luther was wont to caution against the white devil as much
as the black one; for Satan transforms himself into an angel of
light, and his ministers as ministers of righteousness (2 Cor.
11:14, 15). And how do they deceive souls? By flattery. Leading
poor sinners into a fine notion of some righteous character they
have in themselves, what great advances they have made, and what
high attainments they have arrived to, even to be perfect in
themselves, to be free from sin, and full of nothing but love.
These are black men clothed in white-(Mason).

[264] By this shining one understand the loving Lord the Holy
Ghost, the leader and guide of Christ's people. When they err and
stray from Jesus the way, and are drawn from Him as the truth,
the Spirit comes with His rod of convic-tion and chastisement, to
whip souls for their self-righteous pride and folly, back to Christ,
to trust wholly in Him, to rely only on Him, and to walk in sweet
fellowship with Him. So he acted by the Galatian church, which was
flattered into a notion of self-righteousness, and self-justification.
So David, when he found himself nearly lost, cries out, "He
restoreth my soul: He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for
His name's sake" (Psa. 23:3)-(Mason). The devil, in his attempts
after our destruction, maketh use of the most suitable means. The
serpent, Adam knew, was subtle, therefore Satan useth him, thereby
to catch this goodly creature, man. Hereby the devil least appeared
[this fine-spoken man], and least appearing, the temptation soonest
took the tinder-(Bunyan on Genesis, vol. 2, p. 428).

[265] The backsliding of a Christian comes through the overmuch
persuading of Satan and lust; that the man was mistaken, and that
there was no such horror in the things from which he fled; nor
so much good in the things to which he hosted. Turn again, fool,
says the devil. I wonder what frenzy it was that drove thee to
thy heels, and that made thee leave so much good behind thee as
other men find in the lusts of the flesh and the good of the world.
As for the law, and death, and the day of judgment, they are but
mere scarecrows, set up by politic heads, to keep the ignorant in
subjection. Well, he goes back, fool as he is, conscience sleeps,
and flesh is sweet; but, behold, he again sees his own nakedness-he
sees the law whetting his axe-the world is a bubble. He also smells
the brimstone which begins to burn within him. Oh! saith he, I am
deluded! "Have mercy upon me, O God!"-(Christ a Complete Saviour,
vol. 1, p. 223).

[266] A wicked man, though he may hector it at times with his
proud heart, as though he feared neither God nor hell; yet again,
at times, his soul is even drowned with terrors. If one knew the
wicked, when they are under warm convic-tions, then the bed shakes
on which they be; then the proud tongue doth falter in their mouth,
and their knees knock one against another. Then their conscience
stares, and roars, and tears, and arraigns them. O! none can
imagine what fearful plights a wicked man is in at times!-(Bunyan's
Desires of the Righteous, vol. 1, p. 746).

[267] On the Delectable Mountains, the pilgrims had a sight of the
Celestial City. No matter if it were but a glimpse; still they saw
it, they really saw it, and the remembrance of that sight never
left them. There it was in glory! Their hands trembled, their eyes
were dim with tears, but still that vision was not to be mistaken.
There, through the rifted clouds, for a moment, the gates of pearl
were shining, the jasper walls, the endless domes, the jeweled
battlements! The splendour of the city seemed to pour, like a
river of light, down upon the spot where they were standing--(Cheever).

[268] See how we are surrounded with different enemies! No sooner
have they escaped the self-righteous flatterer, but they meet with
the openly profane and licentious mocker-aye, and he set out, and
went far too; yea, further than they. But, behold, he has turned
his back upon all; and though he had been 20 years a seeker, yet
now he proves, that he has neither faith nor hope, but ridicules
all as delusion. Awful to think of! O what a special mercy to be
kept believing and persevering, and not regarding the ridicule of
apostates!-(Mason).

[269] "To round"; to be open, sincere, candid. "Maister Bland
answered flatly and roundly"-(Fox's Book of Martyrs).

[270] Upon the declaration for liberty of conscience, the church
for a season was free from persecution. It was like enchanted ground;
and some, who had been watchful in the storm, became careless and
sleepy in this short deceitful calm-(ED).

[271] Ah, these short naps for pilgrims! The sleep of death, in
the enchanted air of this world, usually begins with one of these
short naps-(Cheever).

[272] The Enchanted Ground may represent worldly prosperity;
agreeable dispensations succeeding long-continued difficulties.
This powerfully tends to produce a lethargic frame of mind; the
man attends to religious duties more from habit, than from delight
in the service of God. No situation requires so much watchfulness.
Other experiences resemble storms, which keep a man awake; this
is a treacherous calm, which lulls him to sleep-(Scott).

[273] O Christian, beware of sleeping on this enchanted ground!
When all things go easy, smooth, and well, we are prone to grow
drowsy in soul. How many are the calls in the Word against spiritual
slumber! and yet how many professors, through the enchanting
air of this world, are fallen into the deep sleep of formality!
Be warned by them to cry to thy Lord to keep thee awake to
righteousness, and vigorous in the ways of thy Lord-(Mason).

[274] Here you see, as our Lord says, "It is the Spirit who
quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing" (John 6:63). Our carnal
nature is so far from profiting in the work of conversion to
Christ, that it is at enmity against Him, and opposes the Spirit's
work in showing us our want of Him, and bringing us to Him. Man's
nature and God's grace are two direct opposites. Nature opposes,
but grace subdues nature, and brings it to submission and subjection.
Are we truly convinced of sin, and converted to Christ? This is
a certain and sure evidence of it-we shall say from our hearts,
Not unto us, nor unto any yieldings and compliances of our nature,
free-will, and power, but unto Thy name, O Lord, be all the glory.
For it is by Thy free, sovereign, efficacious grace, we are what
we are. Hence, see the ignorance, folly, and pride of those who
exalt free-will, and nature's power, &c. Verily they do not know
themselves, even as they are known-(Mason).

[275] Not the evil of sin in the sight of God, but the remorse
and fear of wrath, with which the convinced sinner is oppressed,
and from which he, at times, seeks relief by means which exceedingly
increase his actual guilt. Nothing but a free pardon, by faith
in the atoning sacrifice of Christ, can take away guilt; but the
uneasiness of a man's conscience may be for a time removed by
various expedients-(Scott).

[276] In modern editions, this has been altered to "sin enough in
one day." But in any period of time, selecting that duty in the
discharge of which we have felt the most pure, there has been
a mixture of sin. "For there is not a day, nor a duty; not a day
that thou livest, nor a duty that thou dost, but will need that
mercy should come after to take away thy iniquity"-(Bunyan's
Saints' Privilege, vol. 1, p. 679). These are solemn and humbling
reflections-(ED).

[277] Thus, you see, in conversion, the Lord does not act upon
us as though we were mere machines. No, we have understanding; He
enlightens it. Then we come to a sound mind; we think right, and
reason justly. We have wills; what the understanding judges best,
the will approves, and then the affections follow after; and thus
we choose Christ for our Saviour, and glory only in His righteousness
and salvation. When the heavenly light of truth makes manifest
what we are, and the danger we are in, then we rationally flee
from the wrath to come, to Christ the refuge set before us-(Mason).

[278] Pray mind this. The grand object of a sensible sinner is
righteousness. He has it not in himself; this he knows. Where
is it to be found? In Christ only. This is a revealed truth; and
without faith in this, every sinner must be lost. Consider, it
is at the peril of your soul that you reject the righteousness of
Christ; and do not believe that God imputeth it without works for
the justification of the ungodly. O ye stout-hearted, self-righteous
sinners, ye who are far from righteousness, know this and
tremble!-(Mason).

[279] The true nature of faith is to believe and rest upon the Word
of truth, and wait for the promised comfort. That faith which is
the gift of God leads the soul to wait upon and cry to God, and
not to rest till it has some blessed testimony from God of interest
in the love and favour of God in Christ Jesus. But O how many
professors rest short of this!-(Mason).

[280] As I thought my case most sad and fearful, these words did
with great power suddenly break in upon me, "My grace is sufficient
for thee," three times together. O! methought every word was
a mighty word for me; as My, and grace, and sufficient, and for
thee; they were then, and sometimes are still, far bigger than
others be-(Grace Abounding, No. 206).

[281] The Lord's dealings with his children are various, but all
lead to the same end; some are shaken with terror, while others
are more gently drawn, as with cords of love. In these things
believers should not make their experiences standards one for
another; still there is a similarity in their being brought to the
same point of rejecting both sinful and righteous self, and believing
on the Lord Jesus Christ as their complete salvation-(Andronicus).

[282] Christ did not appear to Hopeful's senses, but to his
understanding; and the words spoken are no other than texts of
Scripture taken in their genuine meaning-not informing him, as by
a new revelation, that his sins were pardoned, but encouraging him
to apply for this mercy, and all other blessings of salvation-(Scott).

[283] Since the dear hour that brought me to Thy foot, And cut up
all my follies by the root, I never trusted in an arm but Thine,
Nor hoped, but in Thy righteousness Divine. My prayers and alms,
imperfect and defiled, Were but the feeble efforts of a child.
Howe'er perform'd, it was their brightest part That they proceeded
from a grateful heart. Cleans'd in Thine own all-purifying blood,
Forgive their evil, and accept their good. I cast them at Thy
feet--my only plea Is what it was, DEPENDENCE UPON THEE!--(Cowper).

[284] Not governed by the Word of God, but by his own will, his
grounds of confidence for salvation unfitted him for Christian
fellowship, unless he happened to fall in with a man who had
imbibed his own notions-(ED).

[285] The desire of Heaven-when its nature is not understood,
the proper means of obtaining it are neglected, other objects
are preferred to it-is no proof that a man will be saved. The
expression, "The desire of grace is grace," is very fallacious. But
to hunger and thirst for God, and His righteousness, His favour,
image, and service, as the supreme good, so that no other object
can satisfy the heart, is grace indeed, and shall be completed in
glory-(Scott).

[286] Real Christians are often put to a stand, while they find
and feel the workings of all corruptions and sins in their nature;
and when they hear others talk so highly of themselves, how full
their hearts are of love to God, and of good motions, without any
complainings of their hearts. But all this is from the ignorance
of their own hearts; and pride and self-righteousness harden them
against feeling its desperate wickedness-(Mason).

[287] I saw that it was not my good frame of heart that made my
righteousness better, nor yet my bad frame that made my righteousness
worse; for my righteousness was Jesus Christ, the same yesterday,
and today, and forever (Heb. 13:8)-(Grace Abounding, No. 229).

[288] Here we see how naturally the notion of man's righteousness
blinds his eyes to, and keeps his heart from believing, that
Christ's personal righteousness alone justifies a sinner in the
sight of God; and yet such talk bravely of believing, but their
faith is only fancy. They do not believe unto righteousness; but
imagine they have now, or shall get, a righteousness of their own,
some how or other. Awful delusion!-(Mason).

[289] Here is the very essence of that delusion which works by a
lie, and so much prevails, and keeps up an unscriptural hope in
the hearts of so many professors. Do, reader, study this point
well; for here seems to be a show of scriptural truth, while the
rankest poison lies concealed in it. For it is utterly subversive
of, and contrary to, the faith and hope of the Gospel-(Mason).

[290] The way of being justified by faith for which Ignorance
pleads may well be called "fanatical," as well as "false"; for it
is nowhere laid down in Scripture; and it not only changes the
way of acceptance, but it takes away the rule and standard of
righteousness, and substitutes a vague notion, called sincerity, in
its place, which never was, nor can be, defined with precision-(Scott).

[291] Justification before God comes, not by imitating Christ as
exemplary in morals, but through faith in His precious blood. To
feed on Jesus is by respecting Him as made of God a curse for our
sin. I have been pleased with observing, that none of the signs
and wonders in Egypt could deliver the children of Israel thence,
until the lamb was slain--(Bunyan on Justification, vol. 2, p.
330).

[292] Under these four heads, we have a most excellent detection
of a presumptive and most dangerous error which now greatly prevails,
as well as a scriptural view of the nature of true faith, and the
object it flies on wholly and solely for justification before God,
and acceptance with God. Reader, for thy soul's sake, look to thy
foundation. See that thou build upon nothing in self, but all upon
that sure foundation which God hath laid, even his beloved Son,
and his perfect righteousness-(Mason).

[293] This, by all natural men, is deemed the very height of
enthusiasm; but a spiritual man knows its blessedness, and rejoices
in its comfort. It is a close question. What may we understand by
it? Doubtless, what Paul means when he says, "It pleased God to
reveal His Son in me," (Gal. 1:15, 16): that is, he had such an
internal, spiritual, experimental sight, and knowledge of Christ,
and of salvation by Him, that his heart embraced Him, his soul
cleaved to Him, his spirit rejoiced in Him; his whole man was
swallowed up with the love of Him, so that he cried out in the joy
of his soul, This is my Beloved and my Friend-my Saviour, my God,
and my Salvation. He is the chief of ten thousand, and altogether
lovely. We know nothing of Christ savingly, comfortably, and
experimentally, till He is pleased thus to reveal Himself to us
(Matt. 11:27). This spiritual revelation of Christ to the heart
is a blessing and comfort agreeable to, and consequent upon,
believing on Christ, as revealed outwardly in the Word. Therefore,
every believer should wait, and look, and long, and pray for it.
Beware you do not despise it; if you do, you will betray your
ignorance of spiritual things, as Ignorance did-(Mason).

[294] Many of these revelations appear in the Grace Abounding, as
"that scripture fastened on my heart" (No. 201); "that sentence
darted in upon me" (No. 204); "these words did with great power
break in upon me" (No. 206); "suddenly this sentence fell upon my
soul" (No. 229); and many others-(ED).

[295] That sinner is not thoroughly awakened, who does not see
his need of Christ's righteousness to be imputed to him. Nor is
he quickened, who has not fled to Christ as "the end of the law
for righteousness to every one that believeth" (Rom. 10:4)-(Mason).

[296] Ignorant professors cannot keep pace with spiritual pilgrims,
nor can they relish the doctrine of making Christ all in all, in
the matter of justification and salvation, and making the sinner
nothing at all, as having no hand in the work, nor getting any
glory to himself by what he is able to do of himself. Free grace
and free will; Christ's imputed righteousness, and the notion of
man's personal righteousness, cannot accord-(Mason).

[297] Take heed of hardening thy heart at any time, against
convictions or judgments. I bid you before to beware of a hard
heart; now I bid you beware of hardening your soft heart. The fear
of the Lord is the pulse of the soul. Pulses that beat best are
the best signs of life; but the worst show that life is present.
Intermitting pulses are dangerous. David and Peter had an intermitting
pulse, in reference to this fear-(Bunyan on the Fear of God,
vol. 1, pp. 487, 489). [298] Mark well Christian's definition of
"fear." It is one of those precious passages in which our author
gives us the subject matter of a whole treatise in a few short and
plain sentences. Treasure it up in your heart, and often ponder
it there. It will prove, through the blessing of the Spirit, a
special means of enlivening, when spiritual langour, in consequence
of worldly ease, is creeping upon your soul-(Andronicus).

[299] "Pitiful old self-holiness." Mind this phrase. Far was it
from the heart of good Mr. Bunyan to decry personal holiness. It
is nothing but self-holiness, or the holiness of the old man of
sin; for true holiness springs from the belief of the truth, and
love to the truth. All besides this only tends to self-confidence,
and self-applause-(Mason).

[300] It is good to call to mind one's own ignorance, when in our
natural estate, to excite humility of heart, and thankfulness to
God, who made us to differ, and to excite pity towards those who are
walking in nature's pride, self-righteousness, and self-confidence-(Mason).

[301] "Temporary"; one who is doctrinally acquainted with the
Gospel, but a stranger to its sanctifying power. The reasons and
manner of such men's declensions and apostasy are very justly and
emphatically stated-(Scott).

[302] In Hoffman's poetical version of the "Pilgrim," this sentence
is, "And nature will return, like Pope, to pork"; alluding to one
of the Popes, who used daily to have a dish of pork; but, being
sick, his physicians forbade it, when the Pope, in a rage, cried
out, "Give me my pork, in spite of God"-(ED).

[303] A true description of the state of some professors. Here
see the reason why so many saints, as they are called, fall away.
From hence, some take occasion to deny the scriptural, soul-comforting
doctrine, of the certain perseverance of God's saints unto eternal
glory. So they display the pride of their own hearts, their ignorance
of God's Word, while they make God's promises of no effect, and
the Gospel of his grace, only much ado about nothing-(Mason).

[304] Three young fellows, Mr. Tradition, Mr. Human-wisdom, and
Mr. Man's-invention, proffered their services to Shaddai. The
captains told them not to be rash; but, at their entreaty, they
were listed into Boanerges' company, and away they went to the
war. Being in the rear, they were taken prisoners. Then Diabolus
asked them if they were willing to serve against Shaddai. They
told him, that as they did not so much live by religion as by the
fates of fortune, they would serve him. So he made two of them
sergeants; but he made Mr. Man's-invention his ancient-bearer
[standard-bearer]-(Bunyan's Holy War).

[305] See how gradually, step by step, apostates go back. It begins
in the unbelief of the heart, and ends in open sins in the life.
Why is the love of this world so forbidden? Why is covetousness
called idolatry? Because, whatever draws away the heart from God,
and prevents enjoying close fellowship with him, naturally tends
to apostasy from him. Look well to your hearts and affections.
"Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues
of life" (Prov. 4:23). If you neglect to watch, you will be sure to
smart under the sense of sin on earth, or its curse in hell. "See
then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming
the time, because the days are evil" (Eph. 5:15, 16)-(Mason).

[306] O what a blessed state! what a glorious frame of soul is
this! Job speaks of it as the candle of the Lord shining upon his
head (29:3). The church, in a rapture, cries out, "Sing, O heavens;
and be joyful, O earth; break forth into singing, O mountains:
for the Lord hath comforted His people" (Isa. 49:13). Paul calls
this, "The fullness of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ" (Rom.
15:29). O rest not short of enjoying the full blaze of Gospel
peace and spiritual joy-(Mason). During the last days of that
eminent man of God, Dr. Payson, he once said, "When I formerly read
Bunyan's description of the Land of Beulah, where the sun shines
and the birds sing day and night, I used to doubt whether there
was such a place; but now my own experience has convinced me of
it, and it infinitely transcends all my previous conceptions." The
best possible commentary on the glowing descriptions in Bunyan is
to be found in that very remarkable letter dictated by Dr. Payson
to his sister, a few weeks before his death-"Were I to adopt the
figurative language of Bunyan, I might date this letter from the
Land Beulah, of which I have been for some weeks a happy inhabitant.
The Celestial City is full in my view. Its glories have been upon
me, its breezes fan me, its odours are wafted to me, its sounds
strike upon my ears, and its spirit is breathed into my heart.
Nothing separates me from it but the River of Death, which now
appears but as an insignificant rill, that may be crossed at a single
step, whenever God shall give permission. The Sun of Righteousness
has been gradually drawing nearer and nearer, appearing larger and
brighter as He approached, and now He fills the whole hemisphere,
pouring forth a flood of glory, in which I seem to float, like an
insect in the beams of the sun; exulting, yet almost trembling,
while I gaze on this excessive brightness, and wondering, with
unutterable wonder, why God should deign thus to shine upon a
sinful worm"-(Cheever). [307] In the immediate view of heavenly
felicity, Paul "desired to depart hence, and be with Christ, as
far better" than life. David "fainted for God's salvation." In
the lively exercise of holy affections, the believer grows weary
of this sinful world, longs to have his faith changed for sight,
his hope swallowed up in enjoyment, and his love perfected--(Scott).

[308] No other language than that of Bunyan himself, perused in
the pages of his own sweet book, could be successful in portraying
this beauty and glory; for now he seems to feel that all the
dangers of the pilgrimage are almost over, and he gives up himself
without restraint so entirely to the sea of bliss that surrounds
him, and to the gales of Heaven that are wafting him on, and to
the sounds of melody that float in the whole air around him, that
nothing in the English language can be compared with this whole
closing part of the "Pilgrim's Progress," for its entrancing
splendour, yet serene and simple loveliness. The colouring is that
of Heaven in the soul; and Bunyan has poured his own Heaven-entranced
soul into it. With all its depth and power, there is nothing
exaggerated, and it is made up of the simplest and most scriptural
materials and images. We seem to stand in a flood of light, poured
on as from the open gates of paradise. It falls on every leaf and
shrub by the way-side; it is reflected from the crystal streams
that, between grassy banks, wind amidst groves of fruit-trees
into vineyards and flower-gardens. These fields of Beulah are just
below the gate of Heaven; and with the light of Heaven there come
floating down the melodies of Heaven, so that here there is almost
an open revelation of the things which God hath prepared for them
that love Him--(Cheever).

[309] This is the place, this is the state, Of all that fear the
Lord; Which men nor angels may relate With tongue, or pen, or word.
No night is here for to eclipse Its spangling rays so bright; Nor
doubt, nor fear, to shut the lips Of those within this light.

The strings of music here are timed For heavenly harmony, And every
spirit here perfumed With perfect sanctity. Here run the crystal
streams of life, Quite thorow all our veins; And here by love we
do unite With glory's golden chains.--(Bunyan's One Thing Needful).

[310] Mr. Flavel, being on a journey, set himself to improve the
time by meditation; when his mind grew intent, till at length he
had such ravishing tastes of heavenly joys, and such full assurance
of his interest therein, that he utterly lost the sight and sense
of this world and all its concerns, so that for hours he knew not
where he was. At last, perceiving himself faint, he alighted from
his horse and sat down at a spring, where he refreshed himself,
earnestly desiring, if it were the will of God, that he might there
leave the world. His spirit reviving, he finished his journey in
the same delightful frame; and all that night passed without a
wink of sleep, the joy of the Lord still overflowing him, so that
he seemed an inhabitant of the other world-(Pneumatologia, 4to,
2d edit. p. 210).

[311] Who are these ministering spirits, that the author calls
"men"? Are they the glorified inhabitants of the Celestial City?
Moses and Elias appeared at the transfiguration; so the spirit who
spake with John (Rev. 20:10), was his fellow-servant. Are these
"spirits of just men made perfect"-the angel-ministering spirits
which are sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of
salvation? (Heb. 1:14; 12:22, 23)-(ED).

[312] What are these two difficulties? Are they not death without,
and unbelief within? It is through the latter that the former is
all-distressing to us. O for a strong, world-conquering, sin-subduing,
death-overcoming faith, in life and death! Jesus, Master, speak
the word, unbelief shall flee, our faith shall not fail, and our
hope shall be steady-(Mason).

[313] Well, now the pilgrims must meet with, and encounter, their
last enemy, death. When he stares them in the face, their fears
arise. Through the river they must go. What have they to look at?
What they are in themselves, or what they have done and been? No.
Only the same Jesus who conquered death for us, and can overcome
the fear of death in us-(Mason).

[314] But tim'rous mortals start and shrink To cross this narrow
sea; They linger, shivering on the brink, And fear to launch
away-(Watts). Evodias could not join in the petition of the
Liturgy-"From sudden death, good Lord, deliver us." He had his
wish; and expired suddenly on a Lord's-day morning, while thousands
were assembling to hear him preach-(Andronicus).

[315] Bunyan died in perfect peace, though it is probable that he
expected darkness in the trying hour. Thus he says, in his treatise
on Paul's Departure, "Aye, this will make thee cry, though thou
be as good as David. Wherefore learn by his sorrows to serve thy
generation, by the will of God, before falling asleep. God can
pardon thy sins, and yet make them a bitter thing and a burden at
death. It is easy to HIM to pardon, and yet break all thy bones;
or show Himself in such dreadful majesty, that Heaven and earth
shall tremble at His presence. Let the thoughts of this prevail
with thee to manage thy time and work in wisdom, while thou art
well" (Vol. 1, p. 730)-(ED).

[316] Satan is suffered to be very busy with God's people in their
last moments, but he too, like death, is a conquered enemy by our
Jesus; therefore, amidst all his attacks, they are safe. He cannot
destroy them whom Jesus hath redeemed, for He is faithful to them,
and almighty to save-(Mason).

[317] Hopeful, agreeably to his name, was not only preserved from
terror, but enabled to encourage his trembling companion telling
him the welcome news that "he felt the bottom, and it was good."
Blessed experience! If Christ is our foundation, we have nothing
to fear, even in the swellings of Jordan, for death itself cannot
separate us from the love of Christ-(Burder).

[318] When you visit a sick or death bed, be sure that you take
God's Word with you, in your heart and in your mouth. It is from
that only that you may expect a blessing upon, and to the soul of,
the sick or the dying; for it is by the Word of God faith came at
the first; it is by that, faith is strengthened at the last; and
Jesus is the sum and substance of the Scriptures-(Mason).

[319] Jesus Christ, He is indeed the Alpha and Omega, the first
and the last, the beginning of our hope, and the end of our
confidence. We begin and end the Christian pilgrimage with Him;
and all our temptations and trials speak loudly, and fully confirm
to us that truth of our Lord, "Without Me ye can do nothing" (John
15:5)-(Mason).

[320] The temporary distresses of dying believers often arise
from bodily disease, which interrupt the free exercise of their
intellectual powers. Of this Satan will be sure to take advantage,
as far as he is permitted, and will suggest gloomy imaginations,
not only to distress them, but to dishearten others by their example.
Generally they who, for a time, have been most distressed, have
at length died most triumphantly-(Scott).

[321] I cannot trust myself to read the account of Christian going
up to the Celestial Gate, after his passage though the River of
Death-(Arnold).

[322] Bunyan, in his Saint's Knowledge of Christ's Love, describes the
feelings of the pilgrim, while clothed with mortality, looking up
to the heights of Heaven. Christ could mount up-Elijah had a chariot
of fire-Enoch was taken by God. But I, poor I, how shall I get
thither? How often are considering thoughts wanting in professors! The
question is happily solved in Christian and Hopeful's experience;
they left all their mortal garments and burdens behind them in the
river, and their free spirits for the first time felt the sweets
of liberty in their perfection-(ED).

[323] I know that all who go to paradise, are conducted thither
by these holy ones; but yet, for all that, such as die under the
cloud, for unchristian walking with God, may meet with darkness
on that day, and go heavily hence. But as for those who have been
faithful to their God, they shall see before them, or from earth
see glory-(Bunyan's Paul's Departure, vol. 1, p. 741).

[324] Ah, Christian! None can conceive or describe what it is
to live in a state separate from a body of sin and death. Surely
in some happy, highly-favoured moments, we have had a glimpse, a
foretaste of this, and could realize it by faith. O for more and
more of this, till we possess and enjoy it in all its fullness!
If Jesus be so sweet to faith below, who can tell what He is in
full fruition above? This we must die to know-(Mason).

[325] Bunyan has, with great beauty and probability, brought in the
ministry of angels, and regions of the air, to be passed through
in their company, rising, and still rising, higher and higher,
before they come to that mighty mount on which He has placed the
gates of the Celestial City. The angels receive His pilgrims as
they come up from the River of Death, and form for them a bright,
glittering, seraphic, loving convoy, whose conversation prepares
them gradually for that exceeding and eternal weight of glory
which is to be theirs as they enter in at the gate. Bunyan has
thus, in this blissful passage from the river to the gate, done
what no other devout writer, or dreamer, or speculator, that we
are aware of, has ever done; he has filled what perhaps in most
minds is a mere blank, a vacancy, or at most a bewilderment and
mist of glory, with definite and beatific images, with natural
thoughts, and with the sympathizing communion of gentle spirits,
who form, as it were, an outer porch and perspective of glory,
through which the soul passes into uncreated light. Bunyan has
thrown a bridge, as it were, for the imagination, over the deep,
sudden, open space of an untried spiritual existence; where it
finds, ready to receive the soul that leaves the body, ministering
spirits, sent forth to minister unto them who are to be heirs of
salvation-(Cheever).

[326] Glory beyond all glory ever seen By waking sense, or by the
dreaming soul! The appearance, instantaneously disclosed, Was of
a mighty City-boldly say A wilderness of building, sinking far, And
self-withdrawn into a wondrous depth, Far sinking into splendour
without end! Fabric it seemed of diamond and of gold, With alabaster
domes and silver spires, And blazing terrace upon terrace, high
Uplifted: here, serene pavilions bright, In avenues disposed;
there, towers begirt With battlements, that on their restless
fronts Bore stars-illumination of all gems!--(Wordsworth).

[327]A certificate, To show thou seest thyself most desolate; Writ
by the Master, with repentance seal'd. To show also that here [by
Christ] thou would'st be healed. And that thou dost abhor thee
for thy ways, And would'st in holiness spend all thy days.--(Bunyan's
House of God, vol. 2, p. 580).

[328] Blessed indeed is that man who, while encumbered with a
sinful body, can truly say, "I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth
in me." In Him all the commandments are obeyed-all my sins washed
away by His blood-and my soul clothed with righteousness and
immortality. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord: they enter
the Celestial City. This is the righteous nation, which keepeth the
truth. O my reader, would you be one of the glorified inhabitants
of that city whose builder and maker is God? Then must you live
the life of faith; so run that ye may obtain; ever be found looking
unto Jesus-(ED). "Prepare me, Lord, for Thy right hand, Then come
the joyful day; Come death, and some celestial hand, And fetch my
soul away."

[329] O what acclamations of joy will there be, when all the
children of God meet together, without the fear of being disturbed
by Antichrist! How will the heavens echo of joy, when the Bride,
the Lamb's wife, shall come to dwell with her Husband! If you would
be better satisfied what the beatific vision means, my request
is, that you would live holily, and thus go and see. Christ is
the desire of all nations, the joy of angels, the delight of the
Father. What solace, then, must that soul be filled with, which
hath the possession of Christ to all eternity?-(Bunyan's Dying
Sayings, vol.1, pp. 64, 65).

[330] When a formal visit from a minister, a few general questions,
and a prayer, with or without the sacrament, calm the mind of
a dying person, whose life has been unsuitable to the Christian
profession; no doubt, could we penetrate the veil, we should see
him wafted across the river in the boat of Vain-hope, and meeting
with the awful doom that is here described. From such fatal
delusions, good Lord, deliver us!-(Scott).

[331] Vain-hope ever dwells in the bosom of fools, and is ever
ready to assist Ignorance. He wanted him at the last, and he found
him. He had been his companion through life, and will not forsake
him in the hour of death. You see Ignorance had no pangs in his
death, no fears, doubts, and sorrows, no terror from the enemy,
but all was serene and happy. Vain-hope was his ferryman; and he,
as the good folks say, died like a lamb. Ah, but did such lambs
see what was to follow, when Vain-hope had wafted them over the
river, they would roar like lions!-(Mason).

[332] This is a most awful conclusion. Consider it deeply. Weigh
it attentively, so as to get good satisfaction from the Word to
these important questions-Am I in Christ, the way, the only way,
to the kingdom, or not? Do I see that all other ways, whether of
sin or self-righteousness, lead to hell? Does Christ dwell in my
heart by faith? Am I a new creature in Him? Do I renounce my own
righteousness, as well as abhor my sins? Do I look alone to Christ
for righteousness, and depend only on Him for holiness? Is He the
only hope of my soul, and the only confidence of my heart? And
do I desire to be found in Him; knowing by the Word, and feeling
by the teaching of His Spirit, that I am totally lost in myself?
Thus, is Christ formed in me, the only hope of glory? Do I study
to please Him, as well as hope to enjoy Him? Is fellowship with
God the Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, so prized by me, as to
seek it, and to esteem it above all things? If so, though I may find
all things in nature, in the world, and from Satan, continually
opposing this, yet I am in Christ the way, and He is in me the truth
and the life-(Mason). How far may such an one go? This important
question is very solemnly argued in Bunyan's Law and Grace. He may
be received into church-fellowship-and, like the foolish virgins,
be clear from outward pollution-have gone forth from the rudiments
and traditions of men-and had their lamps, but still lost their
precious souls. They may bear office in the church, as Judas carried
the bag, and as Demas! They may become preachers and ministers of
the Gospel, with rare gifts, and a fluent tongue, like an angel,
to speak of the hidden mysteries; but may die under the curse.
They may have the gifts of the Spirit and prophecy, and be but
a Balaam. They may stand thus until Christ come and reveal them.
They may, with confidence, say, Lord, Lord, have we not eaten and
drank in Thy presence, and taught in Thy name, and in Thy name
have cast out devils? and yet, poor creatures, be shut out!-(ED).