When her mother was buried, her father took to drink, and Jessie was
left to such care as a poor neighbor could give her. One day she wandered
off unnoticed, with a little basket in her hand, and tugged through one
street after another, not knowing where she went. She had started out
to find Jesus. At last she stopped from utter weariness, in front of a
saloon. A young man staggered out of the door, and almost stumbled over
her. He uttered passionately the name of Him whom she was seeking. "Where
is He?" she inquired eagerly. He looked at her in amazement.

"What did you say?" he asked.

"Will you please tell me where Jesus Christ is? for I _must_ find
Him"--this time with great earnestness.

The young man looked at her curiously for a minute without speaking, and
then his face sobered; and he said in a broken, husky voice, hopelessly:
"I don't know, child; I don't know where he is."

[Illustration]

At length the little girl's wanderings brought her to the park. A woman
evidently a Jewess, was leaning against the railing, looking disconsolately
at the green grass and the trees.

Jessie went up to her timidly. "Perhaps she can tell me where He is,"
was the child's thought. In a low, hesitating voice, she asked the woman:
"Do you know Jesus Christ?"

The Jewess turned fiercely to face her questioner and in a tone of
suppressed passion, exclaimed: "Jesus Christ is dead!" Poor Jessie trudged
on, but soon a rude boy jostled against her, and snatching her basket
from her hand, threw it into the street.

[Illustration]

Crying, she ran to pick it up. The horses of a passing street car trampled
her under their feet--and she knew no more till she found herself stretched
on a hospital bed.

When the doctors came that night, they knew she could not live until
morning. In the middle of the night, after she had been lying very still
for a long time, apparently asleep, she suddenly opened her eyes and the
nurse, bending over her, heard her whisper, while her face lighted up
with a smile that had some of heaven's own gladness in it: "Oh, Jesus, I
have found you at last!"

Then the tiny lips were hushed, but the questioning spirit had received
an answer.

--Selected.


"I'LL NEVER STEAL AGAIN--IF FATHER KILLS ME FOR IT"

A friend of mine, seeking for objects of charity, got into the room of
a tenement house. It was vacant. He saw a ladder pushed through the
ceiling. Thinking that perhaps some poor creature had crept up there,
he climbed the ladder, drew himself up through the hole and found himself
under the rafters. There was no light but that which came through a
bull's-eye in the place of a tile. Soon he saw a heap of chips and
shavings, and on them a boy about ten years old.

"Boy, what are you doing there?"

"Hush! don't tell anybody--please, sir."

"What are you doing here?"

"Don't tell anybody, sir; I'm hiding."

"What are you hiding from?"

"Don't tell anybody, if you please, sir."

"Where's your mother?"

"Mother is dead."

"Where's your father?"

"Hush! don't tell him! don't tell him! but look here!" He turned himself
on his face and through the rags of his jacket and shirt my friend saw
the boy's flesh was bruised and the skin broken.

[Illustration]

"Why, boy, who beat you like that?"

"Father did, sir."

"What did your father beat you like that for?"

"Father got drunk sir, and beat me 'cos I wouldn't steal."

"Did you ever steal?"

"Yes, sir, I was a street thief once."

"And why don't you steal any more?"

"Please, sir, I went to the mission school, and they told me there of
God and of Heaven and of Jesus and they taught me, 'Thou shalt not steal,'
and I'll never steal again, if father kills me for it. But, please sir,
don't tell him."

"My boy, you mast not stay here; you will die. Now you wait patiently
here for a little time; I'm going away to see a lady. We will get a
better place for you than this."

"Thank you sir, but please, sir, would you like to hear me sing a little
hymn?"

Bruised, battered, forlorn; friendless, motherless; hiding away from an
infuriated father he had a little hymn to sing.

"Yes, I will hear you sing your little hymn." He raised himself on his
elbow and then sang:

  "Gentle Jesus, meek and mild,
  Look upon a little child;
  Suffer me to come to Thee.
  Fain would I to Thee be brought,
  Gracious Lord, forbid it not;
  In the Kingdom of Thy grace
  Give a little child a place."

"That's the little hymn, sir; Goodbye."

The gentleman went away, came back again in less than two hours and
climbed the ladder. There were the chips and there was the little toy
with one hand by his side and the other tucked in his bosom underneath
the little ragged shirt--dead.

-John B. Gough.


SIX MONTHS' RECORD

Very tiny and pale the little girl looked as she stood before those three
grave and dignified gentlemen. She had been ushered into Brother Gordon's
study, where he was holding counsel with two of his deacons, and now,
upon inquiry into the nature of her errand a little shyly she stated
that she desired to be baptized.

"You are quite too young to be baptized," said one of the deacons, "you
had better run home, and let us talk to your mother."

She showed no sign of running however, as her wistful blue eyes traveled
from one face to another of the three gentlemen sitting in their
comfortable chairs; she only drew a step nearer to Brother Gordon. He
arose, and with gentle courtesy that ever marked him, placed her in a
small chair close beside himself.

"Now, my child, tell me your name, and where you live."

"Winnie Lewis sir, and I live on ---- Street. I go to Sunday school."

"You do; and who is your teacher?"

"Miss ----. She is very good to me."

"And you want to be baptized."

The child's face glowed as she leaned eagerly toward him, clasping her
hands, but all she said was, "Yes, sir."

"She cannot be more than six years old," said one of the deacons, disapp
rovingly.

Brother Gordon said nothing, but quietly regarded the small, earnest
face, now becoming a little downcast. "I am nine years old; older than
I look," she said.

"It is unusual for anyone to be baptized so young," he said, thoughtfully,
"We might pray for you though."

[Illustration]

The brother did not seem to hear as he asked, "You know what being
baptized means, Winnie?"

"Yes sir"; and she answered a few questions that proved she comprehended
the meaning of the step she wished to take. She had slipped off her
chair, and now stood close to Brother Gordon's knee.

"I want to obey all of God's Word. You said last Sunday, sir, that the
lambs should be in the fold."

"I did," he answered, with one of his own lovely smiles. "It is surely
not for us to keep them out. Go home now, my child. I will see about it."

The cloud lifted from the child's face, and her expression, as she passed
through the door he opened for her, was one of entire peace.

The next week Winnie's desire was granted. Except for occasional
information from Miss ---- that she was doing well, Brother Gordon heard
no more of her for six months.

Then he was summoned to her funeral.

It was one of June's hottest days. As the minister made his way along
the narrow street where Winnie had lived, he wished for a moment that
he had asked his assistant to come in his place; but as he neared the
house, the crowd filled him with wonder; progress was hindered, and as
perforce he paused for a moment, his eye fell on a crippled lad crying
bitterly as he sat on a low door-step.

"Did you know Winnie Lewis, my lad?" he asked.

"Know her, is it sir? Never a week passed but what she came twice or
thrice with a picture or book, mayhaps an apple for me, an' it's owing
to her an' no clargy at all that I'll ever follow her blessed footsteps
to heaven. She'd read me from her own Bible whenever she came, an' now
she's gone there'll be none at all to help me, for mother's dead an'
dad's drunk, an' the sunshine's gone from Mike's sky intirely with Winnie,
sir."

A burst of sobs choked the boy; Brother Gordon passed on, after promising
him a visit very soon, and made his way through the crowd of tear-stained,
sorrowful faces. The Brother came to a stop on the narrow passageway of
the little house. A woman stood beside him drying her fast falling tears
while a wee child hid his face in her skirts and wept.

"Was Winnie a relative of yours?" the brother asked.

"No, sir; but the blessed child was at our house constantly, and when
Bob here was sick she nursed and tended him and her hymns quieted him
when nothing else seemed to do it. It was just the same with all the
neighbors. She took tracts to them all and has prayed with them ever
since she was converted, which was three years ago, when she was but six
years of age, sir. What she's been to us all no one but the Lord will
ever know and now she lies there."

Recognized at last, Brother Gordon was led to the room where the child
lay at rest, looking almost younger than when he had seen her in his
study six months before. An old bent woman was crying aloud by the coffin.

"I never thought she'd go afore I did. She used regular to read an' sing
to me every evening, an' it was her talk an' prayers that made a Christian
of me: you could a'most go to heaven on one of her prayers."

"Mother, mother come away," said a young man putting his arm around her
to lead her back. "You'll see her again."

"I know, I know: she said she'd wait for me at the gate," she sobbed as
she followed him; "but I miss her sore now."

"It's the old lady as Mrs. Lewis lived with sir," said a young lad
standing next to Brother Gordon, as one and another still pressed up
towards the little casket for a last look at the beloved face. "She was
a Unitarian, and she could not hold out against Winnie's prayers and
pleadings to love Jesus, and she's been trusting in Him now for quite
awhile. A mighty good thing it is, too."

"You are right, my lad," replied the minister. "Do you trust Him, too?"

"Winnie taught me, sir," the lad made answer, and sudden tears filled
his eyes.

[Illustration: "Mother, mother, come away." said a young man, putting
his arm around her to lead her back. "You'll see her again."]

A silence fell on those assembled, and, marveling at such testimony,
Brother Gordon proceeded with the service feeling as if there was little
more he could say of one whose deeds thus spoke for her. Loving hands
had laid flowers all around the child who had led them. One tiny lassie
placed a dandelion in the small waxen fingers and now stood, abandoned
to grief beside the still form that bore the impress of absolute purity.
The service over, again and again was the coffin lid waved back by some
one longing for another look, and they seemed as if they could not let
her go.

The next day a good-looking man came to Brother Gordon's house and was
admitted into his study.

"I am Winnie's uncle, sir," he said simply. "She never rested till she
made me promise to get saved, and I've come."

"Will you tell me about it, my friend?" said Brother Gordon.

