At length a battalion was marched to the front of the Prison within the
lines, and drawn up on three sides of a square. Detachments from
companies of picked men took post in rear of the square. Soon an empty
carriage followed by two others containing members of the Executive
Committee were driven into the inner square. They alighted and were
joined by the Commander, proceeded up the steps of the Jail, and were
admitted into it, and the door closed upon them. All knew that a demand
was then making for the surrender of one or more prisoners by Sheriff
Scannell; and that upon his answer it depended whether the Prison should
be stormed or not. A formal demand was willingly made upon the Sheriff
by the Executives for the delivery to them of James P. Casey and that he
be placed in irons before such delivery. The Sheriff informed Casey that
the Prison was surrounded by two thousand armed men and that he had no
force adequate to his protection. Casey finally concluded to go with the
Committee provided two respectable citizens would assure him that he
should have a fair trial, and not be dragged through the streets. A
pledge to that effect was given him by the President and other members
of the Executive Committee. The Committee then withdrew from the Prison,
and, with their armed escort, awaited the surrender of the prisoner.
City Marshal North having placed irons upon him, led him to the door of
the Prison and delivered him into the hands of the Committee. He was
then placed in a close carriage, Mr. North, at Casey's request, taking a
seat by his side, and two members of the Executive Committee also
occupying seats in it. As the guard descended the steps of the Jail with
the prisoner amid the profound silence of the armed force, a shout was
raised by a portion of the spectators several blocks off; but a gesture
of disapprobation from one of the Committee was sufficient instantly to
restore silence. The Committee arranged themselves in the carriages; the
picked men filed in on each side; a heavy guard closed in on all sides
in square; the people rushed in, packing the streets with a dense mass;
and all moved on in silence to the Committee Rooms.

Profound stillness again reigned around the Prison among the troops and
the great body of spectators who kept their ground in expectation of
what might follow. A part of the troops who had attended the prisoner to
the Rooms, at length returned, and soon after, the carriages again
arrived at the Prison, and the Executive Committee demanded of the
Sheriff the body of Charles Cora, the murderer of Gen. Richardson, the
U. S. Marshal. Only after twice requesting and being granted further
time for consideration and being then peremptorily informed that if he
was not delivered up in ten minutes, the Jail would be stormed, did the
Sheriff produce him. He was brought out in irons, placed with officers
in a carriage, the Executive occupying the others, the whole armed force
fell in front, on the sides and in the rear in a long column; and the
whole, accompanied by a crowd of people, swept on to the Rooms of the
Committee. Most deeply was every one impressed with the fearful
responsibility assumed by the actors in this extraordinary scene, and
with the resolute spirit with which they had thus far prosecuted it. As
the procession passed through Montgomery Street, very many of the
spectators were observed to uncover their heads, apparently impressed by
the solemnity of the scene; or perhaps by their respect for the men who
filled the ranks. Arrived at the Rooms, and the prisoner secured, a
large force was detailed for guard and patrol duty, and the remainder of
the troops were dismissed. Thus ended this eventful day.

From Sunday the 18th until Tuesday following, all was quiet upon the
streets. Crowds thronged in silence and deep concern around the Bulletin
Boards whenever a new announcement was made of the condition of the
sufferer. From five o'clock on Tuesday morning it became apparent that
he was sinking; and the public anxiety became momentarily more intense.
At half past one P. M. the dreaded intelligence was communicated that
Mr. King was dead. Immediately every demonstration was made of the
deepest feeling and most profound grief by all classes of the community.
Stores, offices and other places of business were immediately closed.
Hotels, public buildings and many private dwellings were, in an
incredibly short time draped in mourning; and mourning badges were
assumed by a large portion of the population. The bells of the churches
and engine houses were tolled until a late hour. The different
flagstaffs, and the shipping at the wharves and in the harbor displayed
their colors at half-mast. Never did a more general, spontaneous,
heartfelt sadness oppress a whole people, or manifest itself in a more
touching manner. The news was telegraphed in all directions, and from
every part of the State came back responses showing that the whole
people felt as deeply as the citizens of San Francisco, the loss they
had sustained: But sorrow was not suffered to expend itself in
respectful but unsubstantial mourning emblems; and while a great
multiture, from five o'clock in the afternoon to a late hour in the
night, were slowly and sadly passing through the room in Montgomery
Block in which their friend lay cold in death, taking a last look at
that face long so familiar upon the streets, but soon to be seen no more
on earth; a Committee was appointed by the citizens, consisting of
Messrs Macondry, Park and Patterson, to receive subscriptions for the
benefit of the widow and six young children of Mr. King, left but
slenderly provided for. The object was nobly accomplished, and the sum
of thirty thousand dollars placed in trust for them. The claim for the
widow and the fatherless having been thus met; a sterner duty was
believed to rest upon the citizens of San Francisco. Formal and
deliberate trials of the two prisoners in the hands of the Vigilance
Committee were held by the Executive Committee as provided by the
Constitution; and the evidence introduced and the result arrived at were
laid before the Board of Delegates for its concurrence or disapproval.
Extraordinary precautions were adopted in and about Head Quarters. The
number of men on duty within and outside of the building was largely
increased. A full company of horse patrolled Sacramento Street day and
night. At a block or two above the Rooms, a company of infantry was drawn
up in double rank across the street. Any one wishing to visit the Rooms
for any purpose, was required to pass to the centre of the company where
two soldiers with crossed muskets barred the way until he had given the
password. Everywhere evidence was presented that the measures to be
adopted had been thoroughly matured; the means abundantly provided, and
that the results would be wrought out with quiet but inflexible
determination.

