"He will tell you all the truth,--how it all is," said La Mere.  "We
will do all we can, you know, to make you happy, Marie.  But you must
remember what Monsieur le Cure told us the other day.  In this vale
of tears we cannot have everything; as we shall have some day, when
our poor wicked souls have been purged of all their wickedness.  Now
go, dear, and take your cloak."

"Yes, maman."

"And Adolphe will come to you.  And try and behave well, like a
sensible girl."

"Yes, maman,"--and so she went, bearing on her brow another
sacrificial kiss--and bearing in her heart such an unutterable load
of woe!

Adolphe had gone out of the house before her; but standing in the
stable yard, well within the gate so that she should not see him, he
watched her slowly crossing the bridge and mounting the first flight
of the steps.  He had often seen her tripping up those stairs, and
had, almost as often, followed her with his quicker feet.  And she,
when she would hear him, would run; and then he would catch her
breathless at the top, and steal kisses from her when all power of
refusing them had been robbed from her by her efforts at escape.
There was no such running now, no such following, no thought of such
kisses.

As for him, he would fain have skulked off and shirked the interview
had he dared.  But he did not dare; so he waited there, out of heart,
for some ten minutes, speaking a word now and then to the bath-man,
who was standing by, just to show that he was at his ease.  But the
bath-man knew that he was not at his ease.  Such would-be lies as
those rarely achieve deception;--are rarely believed.  And then, at
the end of the ten minutes, with steps as slow as Marie's had been,
he also ascended to the grotto.

Marie had watched him from the top, but so that she herself should
not be seen.  He however had not once lifted up his head to look for
her; but with eyes turned to the ground had plodded his way up to the
cave.  When he entered she was standing in the middle, with her eyes
downcast and her hands clasped before her.  She had retired some way
from the wall, so that no eyes might possibly see her but those of
her false lover.  There she stood when he entered, striving to stand
motionless, but trembling like a leaf in every limb.

It was only when he reached the top step that he made up his mind how
he would behave.  Perhaps after all, the capitaine was right; perhaps
she would not mind it.

"Marie," said he, with a voice that attempted to be cheerful; "this
is an odd place to meet in after such a long absence," and he held
out his hand to her.  But only his hand!  He offered her no salute.
He did not even kiss her cheek as a brother would have done!  Of the
rules of the outside world it must be remembered that poor Marie knew
but little.  He had been a brother to her before he had become her
lover.

But Marie took his hand saying, "Yes, it has been very long."

"And now that I have come back," he went on to say, "it seems that we
are all in a confusion together.  I never knew such a piece of work.
However, it is all for the best, I suppose."

"Perhaps so," said Marie, still trembling violently, and still
looking upon the ground.  And then there was silence between them for
a minute or so.

"I tell you what it is, Marie," said Adolphe at last, dropping her
hand and making a great effort to get through the work before him.
"I am afraid we two have been very foolish.  Don't you think we have
now?  It seems quite clear that we can never get ourselves married.
Don't you see it in that light?"

Marie's head turned round and round with her, but she was not of the
fainting order.  She took three steps backwards and leant against the
wall of the cave.  She also was trying to think how she might best
fight her battle.  Was there no chance for her?  Could no eloquence,
no love prevail?  On her own beauty she counted but little; but might
not prayers do something, and a reference to those old vows which had
been so frequent, so eager, so solemnly pledged between them?

"Never get ourselves married!" she said, repeating his words.
"Never, Adolphe?  Can we never be married?"

"Upon my word, my dear girl, I fear not.  You see my mother is so
dead against it."

"But we could wait; could we not?"

"Ah, but that's just it, Marie.  We cannot wait.  We must decide
now,--to-day.  You see I can do nothing without money from her--and
as for you, you see she won't even let you stay in the house unless
you marry old Campan at once.  He's a very good sort of fellow
though, old as he is.  And if you do marry him, why you see you'll
stay here, and have it all your own way in everything.  As for me, I
shall come and see you all from time to time, and shall be able to
push my way as I ought to do."

"Then, Adolphe, you wish me to marry the capitaine?"

"Upon my honour I think it is the best thing you can do; I do
indeed."

"Oh, Adolphe!"

"What can I do for you, you know?  Suppose I was to go down to my
mother and tell her that I had decided to keep you myself; what would
come of it?  Look at it in that light, Marie."

"She could not turn you out--you her own son!"

"But she would turn you out; and deuced quick, too, I can assure you
of that; I can, upon my honour."

"I should not care that," and she made a motion with her hand to show
how indifferent she would be to such treatment as regarded herself.
"Not that--; if I still had the promise of your love."

"But what would you do?"

"I would work.  There are other houses beside that one," and she
pointed to the slate roof of the Bauche establishment.

"And for me--I should not have a penny in the world," said the young
man.

She came up to him and took his right hand between both of hers and
pressed it warmly, oh, so warmly.  "You would have my love," said
she; "my deepest, warmest best heart's love should want nothing more,
nothing on earth, if I could still have yours."  And she leaned
against his shoulder and looked with all her eyes into his face.

"But, Marie, that's nonsense, you know."

"No, Adolphe, it is not nonsense.  Do not let them teach you so.
What does love mean, if it does not mean that?  Oh, Adolphe, you do
love me, you do love me, you do love me?"

"Yes;--I love you," he said slowly;--as though he would not have said
it, if he could have helped it.  And then his arm crept slowly round
her waist, as though in that also he could not help himself.

"And do not I love you?" said the passionate girl.  "Oh, I do, so
dearly; with all my heart, with all my soul.  Adolphe, I so love you,
that I cannot give you up.  Have I not sworn to be yours; sworn,
sworn a thousand times?  How can I marry that man!  Oh Adolphe how
can you wish that I should marry him?"  And she clung to him, and
looked at him, and besought him with her eyes.

"I shouldn't wish it;--only--" and then he paused.  It was hard to
tell her that he was willing to sacrifice her to the old man because
he wanted money from his mother.

 "Only what!  But Adolphe, do not wish it at all!  Have you not sworn
that I should be your wife?  Look here, look at this;" and she
brought out from her bosom a little charm that he had given her in
return for that cross.  "Did you not kiss that when you swore before
the figure of the Virgin that I should be your wife?  And do you not
remember that I feared to swear too, because your mother was so
angry; and then you made me?  After that, Adolphe!  Oh, Adolphe!
Tell me that I may have some hope.  I will wait; oh, I will wait so
patiently."

