How Jack pitied her!  He relieved her jaws,
brought her some supper, took her to her room,
comforted her as well as he knew how, sat by her
till she fell asleep, and then left for the sitting
room.  As he passed his mother, he remarked,
"If that was the way Frado was to be treated, he
hoped she would never wake again!"  He then
imparted her situation to his father, who seemed
untouched, till a glance at Jack exposed a tear-
ful eye.  Jack went early to her next morning.
She awoke sad, but refreshed.  After breakfast
Jack took her with him to the field, and kept
her through the day.  But it could not be so
generally.  She must return to school, to her
household duties.  He resolved to do what he
could to protect her from Mary and his mother.
He bought her a dog, which became a great
favorite with both.  The invalid, Jane, would
gladly befriend her; but she had not the
strength to brave the iron will of her mother.
Kind words and affectionate glances were the
only expressions of sympathy she could safely
indulge in.  The men employed on the farm
were always glad to hear her prattle; she was
a great favorite with them.  Mrs. Bellmont al-
lowed them the privilege of talking with her in
the kitchen.  She did not fear but she should
have ample opportunity of subduing her when
they were away.  Three months of schooling,
summer and winter, she enjoyed for three years.
Her winter over-dress was a cast-off overcoat,
once worn by Jack, and a sun-bonnet.  It was a
source of great merriment to the scholars, but
Nig's retorts were so mirthful, and their satisfac-
tion so evident in attributing the selection to
"Old Granny Bellmont," that it was not painful
to Nig or pleasurable to Mary.  Her jollity was
not to be quenched by whipping or scolding.
In Mrs. Bellmont's presence she was under re-
straint; but in the kitchen, and among her
schoolmates, the pent up fires burst forth.  She
was ever at some sly prank when unseen by her
teacher, in school hours; not unfrequently some
outburst of merriment, of which she was the
original, was charged upon some innocent mate,
and punishment inflicted which she merited.
They enjoyed her antics so fully that any of
them would suffer wrongfully to keep open the
avenues of mirth.  She would venture far be-
yond propriety, thus shielded and countenanced.

The teacher's desk was supplied with drawers,
in which were stored his books and other et
ceteras of the profession.  The children observed
Nig very busy there one morning before school,
as they flitted in occasionally from their play
outside.  The master came; called the children
to order; opened a drawer to take the book the
occasion required; when out poured a volume of
smoke.  "Fire! fire!" screamed he, at the top of
his voice.  By this time he had become suf-
ficiently acquainted with the peculiar odor, to
know he was imposed upon.  The scholars
shouted with laughter to see the terror of the
dupe, who, feeling abashed at the needless fright,
made no very strict investigation, and Nig once
more escaped punishment.  She had provided
herself with cigars, and puffing, puffing away at
the crack of the drawer, had filled it with smoke,
and then closed it tightly to deceive the teacher,
and amuse the scholars.  The interim of terms
was filled up with a variety of duties new and
peculiar.  At home, no matter how powerful
the heat when sent to rake hay or guard the
grazing herd, she was never permitted to shield
her skin from the sun.  She was not many
shades darker than Mary now; what a calamity
it would be ever to hear the contrast spoken of.
Mrs. Bellmont was determined the sun should
have full power to darken the shade which
nature had first bestowed upon her as best
befitting.


CHAPTER IV.

A FRIEND FOR NIG.

"Hours of my youth! when nurtured in my breast,
To love a stranger, friendship made me blest:--
Friendship, the dear peculiar bond of youth,
When every artless bosom throbs with truth;
Untaught by worldly wisdom how to feign;
And check each impulse with prudential reign;
When all we feel our honest souls disclose--
In love to friends, in open hate to foes;
No varnished tales the lips of youth repeat,
No dear-bought knowledge purchased by deceit."
BYRON.


WITH what differing emotions have the deni-
zens of earth awaited the approach of to-day.
Some sufferer has counted the vibrations of the
pendulum impatient for its dawn, who, now that
it has arrived, is anxious for its close.  The vo-
tary of pleasure, conscious of yesterday's void,
wishes for power to arrest time's haste till a few
more hours of mirth shall be enjoyed.  The un-
fortunate are yet gazing in vain for golden-
edged clouds they fancied would appear in their
horizon.  The good man feels that he has accom-
plished too little for the Master, and sighs that
another day must so soon close.  Innocent child-
hood, weary of its stay, longs for another mor-
row; busy manhood cries, hold! hold! and pur-
sues it to another's dawn.  All are dissatisfied.
All crave some good not yet possessed, which
time is expected to bring with all its morrows.

Was it strange that, to a disconsolate child,
three years should seem a long, long time?
During school time she had rest from Mrs. Bell-
mont's tyranny.  She was now nine years old;
time, her mistress said, such privileges should
cease.

She could now read and spell, and knew the
elementary steps in grammar, arithmetic, and
writing.  Her education completed, as SHE said,
Mrs. Bellmont felt that her time and person belonged
solely to her.  She was under her in every sense
of the word.  What an opportunity to indulge
her vixen nature!  No matter what occurred to
ruffle her, or from what source provocation came,
real or fancied, a few blows on Nig seemed to
relieve her of a portion of ill-will.

These were days when Fido was the entire
confidant of Frado.  She told him her griefs as
though he were human; and he sat so still, and
listened so attentively, she really believed he
knew her sorrows.  All the leisure moments she
could gain were used in teaching him some feat
of dog-agility, so that Jack pronounced him
very knowing, and was truly gratified to know
he had furnished her with a gift answering his
intentions.

Fido was the constant attendant of Frado,
when sent from the house on errands, going and
returning with the cows, out in the fields, to the
village.  If ever she forgot her hardships it was
in his company.

Spring was now retiring.  James, one of the
absent sons, was expected home on a visit.  He
had never seen the last acquisition to the family.
Jack had written faithfully of all the merits of
his colored protege, and hinted plainly that
mother did not always treat her just right.
Many were the preparations to make the visit
pleasant, and as the day approached when he
was to arrive, great exertions were made to
cook the favorite viands, to prepare the choicest
table-fare.

The morning of the arrival day was a busy
one.  Frado knew not who would be of so much
importance; her feet were speeding hither and
thither so unsparingly.  Mrs. Bellmont seemed
a trifle fatigued, and her shoes which had, early
in the morning, a methodic squeak, altered to an
irregular, peevish snap.

"Get some little wood to make the fire burn,"
said Mrs. Bellmont, in a sharp tone.  Frado
obeyed, bringing the smallest she could find.

Mrs. Bellmont approached her, and, giving her
a box on her ear, reiterated the command.

The first the child brought was the smallest to
be found; of course, the second must be a trifle
larger.  She well knew it was, as she threw it
into a box on the hearth.  To Mrs. Bellmont
it was a greater affront, as well as larger wood,
so she "taught her" with the raw-hide, and sent
her the third time for "little wood."

Nig, weeping, knew not what to do.  She
had carried the smallest; none left would suit
her mistress; of course further punishment await-
ed her; so she gathered up whatever came first,
and threw it down on the hearth.  As she ex-
pected, Mrs. Bellmont, enraged, approached her,
and kicked her so forcibly as to throw her upon
the floor.  Before she could rise, another foiled
the attempt, and then followed kick after kick in
quick succession and power, till she reached the
door.  Mr. Bellmont and Aunt Abby, hearing the
noise, rushed in, just in time to see the last of
the performance.  Nig jumped up, and rushed
from the house, out of sight.

Aunt Abby returned to her apartment, fol-
lowed by John, who was muttering to himself.

"What were you saying?" asked Aunt Abby.

"I said I hoped the child never would come
into the house again."

"What would become of her?  You cannot
mean THAT," continued his sister.

"I do mean it.  The child does as much work
as a woman ought to; and just see how she is
kicked about!"

"Why do you have it so, John?" asked his
sister.

"How am I to help it?  Women rule the
earth, and all in it."

"I think I should rule my own house, John,"--

"And live in hell meantime," added Mr.
Bellmont.

John now sauntered out to the barn to await
the quieting of the storm.

Aunt Abby had a glimpse of Nig as she
passed out of the yard; but to arrest her, or
shew her that SHE would shelter her, in Mrs.
Bellmont's presence, would only bring reserved
wrath on her defenceless head.  Her sister-in-
law had great prejudices against her.  One
cause of the alienation was that she did not
give her right in the homestead to John, and
leave it forever; another was that she was a
professor of religion, (so was Mrs. Bellmont;)
but Nab, as she called her, did not live accord-
ing to her profession; another, that she WOULD
sometimes give Nig cake and pie, which she was
never allowed to have at home.  Mary had
often noticed and spoken of her inconsistencies.

The dinner hour passed.  Frado had not ap-
peared.  Mrs. B. made no inquiry or search.
Aunt Abby looked long, and found her con-
cealed in an outbuilding.  "Come into the
house with me," implored Aunt Abby.

"I ain't going in any more," sobbed the child.

"What will you do?" asked Aunt Abby.

"I've got to stay out here and die.  I ha'n't
got no mother, no home.  I wish I was dead."

"Poor thing," muttered Aunt Abby; and
slyly providing her with some dinner, left her
to her grief.

Jane went to confer with her Aunt about the
affair; and learned from her the retreat.  She
would gladly have concealed her in her own
chamber, and ministered to her wants; but she
was dependent on Mary and her mother for
care, and any displeasure caused by attention to
Nig, was seriously felt.

Toward night the coach brought James.  A
time of general greeting, inquiries for absent
members of the family, a visit to Aunt Abby's
room, undoing a few delicacies for Jane, brought
them to the tea hour.

"Where's Frado?" asked Mr. Bellmont, ob-
serving she was not in her usual place, behind
her mistress' chair.

"I don't know, and I don't care.  If she
makes her appearance again, I'll take the skin
from her body," replied his wife.

James, a fine looking young man, with a
pleasant countenance, placid, and yet decidedly
serious, yet not stern, looked up confounded.
He was no stranger to his mother's nature; but
years of absence had erased the occurrences
once so familiar, and he asked, "Is this that
pretty little Nig, Jack writes to me about, that
you are so severe upon, mother?"

"I'll not leave much of her beauty to be
seen, if she comes in sight; and now, John,"
said Mrs. B., turning to her husband, "you need
not think you are going to learn her to treat me
in this way; just see how saucy she was this
morning.  She shall learn her place."

Mr. Bellmont raised his calm, determined eye
full upon her, and said, in a decisive manner:
"You shall not strike, or scald, or skin her, as you
call it, if she comes back again.  Remember!"
and he brought his hand down upon the table.
"I have searched an hour for her now, and she
is not to be found on the premises.  Do YOU
know where she is?  Is she YOUR prisoner?"

"No!  I have just told you I did not know
where she was.  Nab has her hid somewhere, I
suppose.  Oh, dear!  I did not think it would
come to this; that my own husband would treat
me so."  Then came fast flowing tears, which no
one but Mary seemed to notice.  Jane crept
into Aunt Abby's room; Mr. Bellmont and
James went out of doors, and Mary remained to
condole with her parent.

"Do you know where Frado is?" asked Jane
of her aunt.

"No," she replied.  "I have hunted every-
where.  She has left her first hiding-place.  I
cannot think what has become of her.  There
comes Jack and Fido; perhaps he knows;" and
she walked to a window near, where James and
his father were conversing together.

The two brothers exchanged a hearty greet-
ing, and then Mr. Bellmont told Jack to eat his
supper; afterward he wished to send him away.
He immediately went in.  Accustomed to all
the phases of indoor storms, from a whine to
thunder and lightning, he saw at a glance marks
of disturbance.  He had been absent through
the day, with the hired men.

"What's the fuss?" asked he, rushing into
Aunt Abby's.

"Eat your supper," said Jane; "go home,
Jack."

Back again through the dining-room, and out
to his father.

"What's the fuss?" again inquired he of his
father.

"Eat your supper, Jack, and see if you can
find Frado.  She's not been seen since morning,
and then she was kicked out of the house."

"I shan't eat my supper till I find her," said
Jack, indignantly.  "Come, James, and see the
little creature mother treats so."

They started, calling, searching, coaxing, all
their way along.  No Frado.  They returned to
the house to consult.  James and Jack declared
they would not sleep till she was found.

Mrs. Bellmont attempted to dissuade them
from the search.  "It was a shame a little NIGGER
should make so much trouble."

Just then Fido came running up, and Jack
exclaimed, "Fido knows where she is, I'll bet."

"So I believe," said his father; "but we shall
not be wiser unless we can outwit him.  He will
not do what his mistress forbids him."

"I know how to fix him," said Jack.  Taking
a plate from the table, which was still waiting,
he called, "Fido!  Fido!  Frado wants some sup-
per.  Come!"  Jack started, the dog followed,
and soon capered on before, far, far into the
fields, over walls and through fences, into a
piece of swampy land.  Jack followed close, and
soon appeared to James, who was quite in the
rear, coaxing and forcing Frado along with him.

A frail child, driven from shelter by the cru-
elty of his mother, was an object of interest to
James.  They persuaded her to go home with
them, warmed her by the kitchen fire, gave her
a good supper, and took her with them into the
sitting-room.

"Take that nigger out of my sight," was Mrs.
Bellmont's command, before they could be
seated.

James led her into Aunt Abby's, where he
knew they were welcome.  They chatted awhile
until Frado seemed cheerful; then James led
her to her room, and waited until she retired.

"Are you glad I've come home?" asked
James.

"Yes; if you won't let me be whipped to-
morrow."

"You won't be whipped.  You must try to
be a good girl," counselled James.

"If I do, I get whipped," sobbed the child.
"They won't believe what I say.  Oh, I wish I
had my mother back; then I should not be
kicked and whipped so.  Who made me so?"

"God," answered James.

"Did God make you?"

"Yes."

"Who made Aunt Abby?"

"God."

"Who made your mother?"

"God."

"Did the same God that made her make
me?"

"Yes."

"Well, then, I don't like him."

"Why not?"

"Because he made her white, and me black.
Why didn't he make us BOTH white?"

"I don't know; try to go to sleep, and you
will feel better in the morning," was all the re-
ply he could make to her knotty queries.  It
was a long time before she fell asleep; and a
number of days before James felt in a mood to
visit and entertain old associates and friends.


CHAPTER V.
DEPARTURES.

Life is a strange avenue of various trees and flowers;
Lightsome at commencement, but darkening to its end in a distant,
massy portal.
It beginneth as a little path, edged with the violet and primrose,
A little path of lawny grass and soft to tiny feet.
Soon, spring thistles in the way.
TUPPER.


JAMES' visit concluded.  Frado had become
greatly attached to him, and with sorrow she
listened and joined in the farewells which pre-
ceded his exit.  The remembrance of his kind-
ness cheered her through many a weary month,
and an occasional word to her in letters to Jack,
were like "cold waters to a thirsty soul."  In-
telligence came that James would soon marry;
Frado hoped he would, and remove her from
such severe treatment as she was subject to.
There had been additional burdens laid on her
since his return.  She must now MILK the cows,
she had then only to drive.  Flocks of sheep
had been added to the farm, which daily claimed
a portion of her time.  In the absence of the
men, she must harness the horse for Mary and
her mother to ride, go to mill, in short, do the
work of a boy, could one be procured to endure
the tirades of Mrs. Bellmont.  She was first up
in the morning, doing what she could towards
breakfast.  Occasionally, she would utter some
funny thing for Jack's benefit, while she was
waiting on the table, provoking a sharp look
from his mother, or expulsion from the room.

On one such occasion, they found her on the
roof of the barn.  Some repairs having been
necessary, a staging had been erected, and was
not wholly removed.  Availing herself of lad-
ders, she was mounted in high glee on the top-
most board.  Mr. Bellmont called sternly for her
to come down; poor Jane nearly fainted from
fear.  Mrs. B. and Mary did not care if she
"broke her neck," while Jack and the men
laughed at her fearlessness.  Strange, one spark
of playfulness could remain amid such constant
toil; but her natural temperament was in a
high degree mirthful, and the encouragement
she received from Jack and the hired men, con-
stantly nurtured the inclination.  When she had
none of the family around to be merry with,
she would amuse herself with the animals.
Among the sheep was a willful leader, who al-
ways persisted in being first served, and many
times in his fury he had thrown down Nig, till,
provoked, she resolved to punish him.  The pas-
ture in which the sheep grazed was founded on
three sides by a wide stream, which flowed on
one side at the base of precipitous banks.  The
first spare moments at her command, she ran to
the pasture with a dish in her hand, and mount-
ing the highest point of land nearest the stream,
called the flock to their mock repast.  Mr. Bell-
mont, with his laborers, were in sight, though
unseen by Frado.  They paused to see what she
was about to do.  Should she by any mishap
lose her footing, she must roll into the stream,
and, without aid, must drown.  They thought of
shouting; but they feared an unexpected salute
might startle her, and thus ensure what they
were anxious to prevent.  They watched in
breathless silence.  The willful sheep came furi-
ously leaping and bounding far in advance of
the flock.  Just as he leaped for the dish, she
suddenly jumped to one side, when down he rolled
into the river, and swimming across, remained
alone till night.  The men lay down, convulsed
with laughter at the trick, and guessed at once
its object.  Mr. Bellmont talked seriously to the
child for exposing herself to such danger; but
she hopped about on her toes, and with laugha-
ble grimaces replied, she knew she was quick
enough to "give him a slide."

But to return.  James married a Baltimorean
lady of wealthy parentage, an indispensable
requisite, his mother had always taught him.
He did not marry her wealth, though; he loved
HER, sincerely.  She was not unlike his sister
Jane, who had a social, gentle, loving nature,
rather TOO yielding, her brother thought.  His
Susan had a firmness which Jane needed to
complete her character, but which her ill health
may in a measure have failed to produce.  Al-
though an invalid, she was not excluded from
society.  Was it strange SHE should seem a desir-
able companion, a treasure as a wife?

Two young men seemed desirous of possess-
ing her.  One was a neighbor, Henry Reed, a
tall, spare young man, with sandy hair, and blue,
sinister eyes.  He seemed to appreciate her
wants, and watch with interest her improvement
or decay.  His kindness she received, and by it
was almost won.  Her mother wished her to en-
courage his attentions.  She had counted the
acres which were to be transmitted to an only
son; she knew there was silver in the purse;
she would not have Jane too sentimental.

The eagerness with which he amassed wealth,
was repulsive to Jane; he did not spare his per-
son or beasts in its pursuit.  She felt that to
such a man she should be considered an incum-
brance; she doubted if he would desire her, if
he did not know she would bring a handsome
patrimony.  Her mother, full in favor with the
parents of Henry, commanded her to accept
him.  She engaged herself, yielding to her
mother's wishes, because she had not strength to
oppose them; and sometimes, when witness of
her mother's and Mary's tyranny, she felt any
change would be preferable, even such a one as
this.  She knew her husband should be the man
of her own selecting, one she was conscious of
preferring before all others.  She could not say
this of Henry.

In this dilemma, a visitor came to Aunt
Abby's; one of her boy-favorites, George Means,
from an adjoining State.  Sensible, plain looking,
agreeable, talented, he could not long be a
stranger to any one who wished to know him.
Jane was accustomed to sit much with Aunt
Abby always; her presence now seemed neces-
sary to assist in entertaining this youthful friend.
Jane was more pleased with him each day, and
silently wished Henry possessed more refinement,
and the polished manners of George.  She felt
dissatisfied with her relation to him.  His calls
while George was there, brought their opposing
qualities vividly before her, and she found it
disagreeable to force herself into those atten-
tions belonging to him.  She received him ap-
parently only as a neighbor.

George returned home, and Jane endeavored
to stifle the risings of dissatisfaction, and had
nearly succeeded, when a letter came which
needed but one glance to assure her of its birth-
place; and she retired for its perusal.  Well
was it for her that her mother's suspicion was
not aroused, or her curiosity startled to inquire
who it came from.  After reading it, she glided
into Aunt Abby's, and placed it in her hands,
who was no stranger to Jane's trials.

George could not rest after his return, he
wrote, until he had communicated to Jane the
emotions her presence awakened, and his desire
to love and possess her as his own.  He begged
to know if his affections were reciprocated, or
could be; if she would permit him to write to
her; if she was free from all obligation to
another.

"What would mother say?" queried Jane, as
she received the letter from her aunt.

"Not much to comfort you."

"Now, aunt, George is just such a man as I
could really love, I think, from all I have seen
of him; you know I never could say that of
Henry"--

"Then don't marry him," interrupted Aunt
Abby.

"Mother will make me."

"Your father won't."

"Well, aunt, what can I do?  Would you
answer the letter, or not?"

"Yes, answer it.  Tell him your situation."

"I shall not tell him all my feelings."

Jane answered that she had enjoyed his com-
pany much; she had seen nothing offensive in
his manner or appearance; that she was under
no obligations which forbade her receiving let-
ters from him as a friend and acquaintance.
George was puzzled by the reply.  He wrote to
Aunt Abby, and from her learned all.  He
could not see Jane thus sacrificed, without mak-
ing an effort to rescue her.  Another visit fol-
lowed.  George heard Jane say she preferred
HIM.  He then conferred with Henry at his
home.  It was not a pleasant subject to talk
upon.  To be thus supplanted, was not to be
thought of.  He would sacrifice everything but
his inheritance to secure his betrothed.

"And so you are the cause of her late cold-
ness towards me.  Leave!  I will talk no more
about it; the business is settled between us;
there it will remain," said Henry.

"Have you no wish to know the real state of
Jane's affections towards you?" asked George.

"No!  Go, I say! go!" and Henry opened
the door for him to pass out.

He retired to Aunt Abby's.  Henry soon fol-
lowed, and presented his cause to Mrs. Bellmont.

Provoked, surprised, indignant, she summoned
Jane to her presence, and after a lengthy tirade
upon Nab, and her satanic influence, told her
she could not break the bonds which held her
to Henry; she should not.  George Means was
rightly named; he was, truly, mean enough;
she knew his family of old; his father had four
wives, and five times as many children.

"Go to your room, Miss Jane," she continued.
"Don't let me know of your being in Nab's for
one while."

The storm was now visible to all beholders.
Mr. Bellmont sought Jane.  She told him her ob-
jections to Henry; showed him George's letter;
told her answer, the occasion of his visit.  He
bade her not make herself sick; he would see
that she was not compelled to violate her free
choice in so important a transaction.  He then
sought the two young men; told them he could
not as a father see his child compelled to an un-
congenial union; a free, voluntary choice was of
such importance to one of her health.  She must
be left free to her own choice.

Jane sent Henry a letter of dismission; he her
one of a legal bearing, in which he balanced his
disappointment by a few hundreds.

To brave her mother's fury, nearly overcame
her, but the consolation of a kind father and
aunt cheered her on.  After a suitable interval
she was married to George, and removed to his
home in Vermont.  Thus another light disap-
peared from Nig's horizon.  Another was soon to
follow.  Jack was anxious to try his skill in pro-
viding for his own support; so a situation as
clerk in a store was procured in a Western city,
and six months after Jane's departure, was Nig
abandoned to the tender mercies of Mary and
her mother.  As if to remove the last vestige of
earthly joy, Mrs. Bellmont sold the companion and
pet of Frado, the dog Fido.


CHAPTER VI.

VARIETIES.

"Hard are life's early steps; and but that youth is buoyant, con-
fident, and strong in hope, men would behold its threshold and
despair."


THE sorrow of Frado was very great for her
pet, and Mr. Bellmont by great exertion obtained
it again, much to the relief of the child.  To be
thus deprived of all her sources of pleasure was a
sure way to exalt their worth, and Fido became,
in her estimation, a more valuable presence than
the human beings who surrounded her.

James had now been married a number of
years, and frequent requests for a visit from the
family were at last accepted, and Mrs. Bellmont
made great preparations for a fall sojourn in
Baltimore.  Mary was installed housekeeper--in
name merely, for Nig was the only moving power
in the house.  Although suffering from their joint
severity, she felt safer than to be thrown wholly
upon an ardent, passionate, unrestrained young
lady, whom she always hated and felt it hard to
be obliged to obey.  The trial she must meet.
Were Jack or Jane at home she would have some
refuge; one only remained; good Aunt Abby
was still in the house.

She saw the fast receding coach which con-
veyed her master and mistress with regret, and
begged for one favor only, that James would
send for her when they returned, a hope she had
confidently cherished all these five years.

She was now able to do all the washing, iron-
ing, baking, and the common et cetera of house-
hold duties, though but fourteen.  Mary left all
for her to do, though she affected great responsi-
bility.  She would show herself in the kitchen
long enough to relieve herself of some command,
better withheld; or insist upon some compliance
to her wishes in some department which she was
very imperfectly acquainted with, very much less
than the person she was addressing; and so im-
petuous till her orders were obeyed, that to
escape the turmoil, Nig would often go contrary
to her own knowledge to gain a respite.

Nig was taken sick!  What could be done
The WORK, certainly, but not by Miss Mary.  So
Nig would work while she could remain erect,
then sink down upon the floor, or a chair,
till she could rally for a fresh effort.  Mary would
look in upon her, chide her for her laziness,
threaten to tell mother when she came home,
and so forth.

"Nig!" screamed Mary, one of her sickest
days, "come here, and sweep these threads from
the carpet."  She attempted to drag her weary
limbs along, using the broom as support.  Impa-
tient of delay, she called again, but with a differ-
ent request.  "Bring me some wood, you lazy
jade, quick."  Nig rested the broom against the
wall, and started on the fresh behest.

Too long gone.  Flushed with anger, she rose
and greeted her with, "What are you gone so
long for?  Bring it in quick, I say."

"I am coming as quick as I can," she replied,
entering the door.

"Saucy, impudent nigger, you! is this the way
you answer me?" and taking a large carving
knife from the table, she hurled it, in her rage,
at the defenceless girl.

Dodging quickly, it fastened in the ceiling a
few inches from where she stood.  There rushed
on Mary's mental vision a picture of bloodshed,
in which she was the perpetrator, and the sad
consequences of what was so nearly an actual
occurrence.

"Tell anybody of this, if you dare.  If you tell
Aunt Abby, I'll certainly kill you," said she,
terrified.  She returned to her room, brushed
her threads herself; was for a day or two more
guarded, and so escaped deserved and merited
penalty.

Oh, how long the weeks seemed which held
Nig in subjection to Mary; but they passed like
all earth's sorrows and joys.  Mr. and Mrs. B.
returned delighted with their visit, and laden
with rich presents for Mary.  No word of hope
for Nig.  James was quite unwell, and would
come home the next spring for a visit.

This, thought Nig, will be my time of release.
I shall go back with him.

From early dawn until after all were retired,
was she toiling, overworked, disheartened, long-
ing for relief.

Exposure from heat to cold, or the reverse,
often destroyed her health for short intervals.
She wore no shoes until after frost, and snow
even, appeared; and bared her feet again before
the last vestige of winter disappeared.  These
sudden changes she was so illy guarded against,
nearly conquered her physical system.  Any
word of complaint was severely repulsed or cru-
elly punished.

She was told she had much more than she
deserved.  So that manual labor was not in
reality her only burden; but such an incessant
torrent of scolding and boxing and threatening,
was enough to deter one of maturer years from
remaining within sound of the strife.

It is impossible to give an impression of the
manifest enjoyment of Mrs. B. in these kitchen
scenes.  It was her favorite exercise to enter
the apartment noisily, vociferate orders, give
a few sudden blows to quicken Nig's pace, then
return to the sitting room with SUCH a satis-
fied expression, congratulating herself upon her
thorough house-keeping qualities.

She usually rose in the morning at the ring-
ing of the bell for breakfast; if she were heard
stirring before that time, Nig knew well there
was an extra amount of scolding to be borne.

No one now stood between herself and Frado,
but Aunt Abby.  And if SHE dared to interfere
in the least, she was ordered back to her "own
quarters."  Nig would creep slyly into her
room, learn what she could of her regarding the
absent, and thus gain some light in the thick
gloom of care and toil and sorrow in which she
was immersed.

The first of spring a letter came from James,
announcing declining health.  He must try
northern air as a restorative; so Frado joyfully
prepared for this agreeable increase of the family,
this addition to her cares.

He arrived feeble, lame, from his disease, so
changed Frado wept at his appearance, fearing
he would be removed from her forever.  He
kindly greeted her, took her to the parlor to see
his wife and child, and said many things to kindle
smiles on her sad face.

Frado felt so happy in his presence, so safe
from maltreatment!  He was to her a shelter.
He observed, silently, the ways of the house a
few days; Nig still took her meals in the same
manner as formerly, having the same allowance
of food.  He, one day, bade her not remove the
food, but sit down to the table and eat.

"She WILL, mother," said he, calmly, but impera-
tively; I'm determined; she works hard; I've
watched her.  Now, while I stay, she is going to
sit down HERE, and eat such food as we eat."

A few sparks from the mother's black eyes
were the only reply; she feared to oppose where
she knew she could not prevail.  So Nig's stand-
ing attitude, and selected diet vanished.

Her clothing was yet poor and scanty; she was
not blessed with a Sunday attire; for she was
never permitted to attend church with her mis-
tress.  "Religion was not meant for niggers,"
SHE said; when the husband and brothers were
absent, she would drive Mrs. B. and Mary there,
then return, and go for them at the close of the
service, but never remain.  Aunt Abby would
take her to evening meetings, held in the neigh-
borhood, which Mrs. B. never attended; and im-
part to her lessons of truth and grace as they
walked to the place of prayer.

Many of less piety would scorn to present so
doleful a figure; Mrs. B. had shaved her glossy
ringlets; and, in her coarse cloth gown and an-
cient bonnet, she was anything but an enticing
object.  But Aunt Abby looked within.  She
saw a soul to save, an immortality of happi-
ness to secure.

These evenings were eagerly anticipated by
Nig; it was such a pleasant release from labor.

Such perfect contrast in the melody and pray-
ers of these good people to the harsh tones which
fell on her ears during the day.

Soon she had all their sacred songs at com-
mand, and enlivened her toil by accompanying
it with this melody.

James encouraged his aunt in her efforts.  He
had found the SAVIOUR, he wished to have Frado's
desolate heart gladdened, quieted, sustained, by
HIS presence.  He felt sure there were elements
in her heart which, transformed and purified by
the gospel, would make her worthy the esteem
and friendship of the world.  A kind, affection-
ate heart, native wit, and common sense, and
the pertness she sometimes exhibited, he felt if
restrained properly, might become useful in
originating a self-reliance which would be of ser-
vice to her in after years.

Yet it was not possible to compass all this,
while she remained where she was.  He wished
to be cautious about pressing too closely her
claims on his mother, as it would increase the
burdened one he so anxiously wished to relieve.
He cheered her on with the hope of returning
with his family, when he recovered sufficiently.

Nig seemed awakened to new hopes and
aspirations, and realized a longing for the future,
hitherto unknown.

To complete Nig's enjoyment, Jack arrived
unexpectedly.  His greeting was as hearty to
herself as to any of the family.

"Where are your curls, Fra?" asked Jack,
after the usual salutation.

"Your mother cut them off."

"Thought you were getting handsome, did
she?  Same old story, is it; knocks and bumps?
Better times coming; never fear, Nig."

How different this appellative sounded from
him; he said it in such a tone, with such a
rogueish look!

She laughed, and replied that he had better
take her West for a housekeeper.

Jack was pleased with James's innovations of
table discipline, and would often tarry in the
dining-room, to see Nig in her new place at the
family table.  As he was thus sitting one day,
after the family had finished dinner, Frado seated
herself in her mistress' chair, and was just
reaching for a clean dessert plate which was on
the table, when her mistress entered.

"Put that plate down; you shall not have a
clean one; eat from mine," continued she.  Nig
hesitated.  To eat after James, his wife or Jack,
would have been pleasant; but to be command-
ed to do what was disagreeable by her mistress,
BECAUSE it was disagreeable, was trying.  Quickly
looking about, she took the plate, called Fido to
wash it, which he did to the best of his ability;
then, wiping her knife and fork on the cloth, she
proceeded to eat her dinner.

Nig never looked toward her mistress during
the process.  She had Jack near; she did not
fear her now.

Insulted, full of rage, Mrs. Bellmont rushed to
her husband, and commanded him to notice
this insult; to whip that child; if he would not
do it, James ought.

James came to hear the kitchen version of the
affair.  Jack was boiling over with laughter.  He
related all the circumstances to James, and
pulling a bright, silver half-dollar from his
pocket, he threw it at Nig, saying, "There, take
that; 'twas worth paying for."

James sought his mother; told her he "would
not excuse or palliate Nig's impudence; but she
should not be whipped or be punished at all.
You have not treated her, mother, so as to gain
her love; she is only exhibiting your remissness
in this matter."

She only smothered her resentment until a
convenient opportunity offered.  The first time
she was left alone with Nig, she gave her a
thorough beating, to bring up arrearages; and
threatened, if she ever exposed her to James,
she would "cut her tongue out."

James found her, upon his return, sobbing;
but fearful of revenge, she dared not answer his
queries.  He guessed their cause, and longed for
returning health to take her under his pro-
tection.


CHAPTER VII.

SPIRITUAL CONDITION OF NIG.

"What are our joys but dreams? and what our hopes
But goodly shadows in the summer cloud?"
H. K. W.


JAMES did not improve as was hoped.  Month
after month passed away, and brought no pros-
pect of returning health.  He could not walk
far from the house for want of strength; but he
loved to sit with Aunt Abby in her quiet room,
talking of unseen glories, and heart-experiences,
while planning for the spiritual benefit of those
around them.  In these confidential interviews,
Frado was never omitted.  They would discuss
the prevalent opinion of the public, that people
of color are really inferior; incapable of cultiva-
tion and refinement.  They would glance at the
qualities of Nig, which promised so much if
rightly directed.  "I wish you would take her,
James, when you are well, home with YOU," said
Aunt Abby, in one of these seasons.

