A common interest in the liberation of Tasmania being thus avowed by the
continental colonies, it became necessary to settle the principles of
their confederation. The Rev. John West of Launceston, who had first
mooted the measure, was deputed to consult with the colonists resident
at Hobart Town. Meetings were accordingly held at the dwelling house of
Mr. Hopkins of that city during several weeks, and the whole question of
transportation in its colonial aspect was largely discussed. An
impression seemed to prevail that the theory of dispersion, as
originally propounded by Earl Grey, might have been beneficial to the
empire and desirable for the convicts, and but slightly injurious to the
colonies. It was clear, however, that the resolution of the free
colonies was irrevocable, and that the continuance of transportation
would pour an incessant and destructive stream of crime into Van
Diemen's Land. Nor was it possible to make common cause with the
adjacent communities but by supporting the object of their local
resistance. Without reference to theories no longer practicable, an
agreement was drawn up by Mr. Pitcairn, and signed by the gentlemen
present, in the following terms:--"We the undersigned, deeply impressed
by the evils which have arisen from the transportation of the criminals
of Great Britain to the Australian colonies, declare that transportation
to any of the colonies ought for ever to cease, and we do hereby pledge
ourselves to use all lawful means to procure its abolition--Robert
Pitcairn, Thomas D. Chapman, Henry Hopkins, G. C. Clarke, Joseph
Allport, John West, F. Haller, G. W. Walker, William Rout, Henry Smith,
P. T. Smith, Robert Officer."

Having thus secured concurrence in the object to be sought, the
initiation of practical measures was remitted to the Association of
Launceston. At an adjourned meeting of that body, on 10th October, the
secretary, Mr. Crookes, was instructed to propose a conference of
delegates from each of the colonies, to be held at Victoria. This
proposal was instantly adopted by the abolitionists of Melbourne: the
mayor was requested to forward invitations, and to fix the time of
meeting for January, 1851. The people of New South Wales and South
Australia found it inconvenient to comply with this arrangement, but
expressed the most cordial interest in its issue. The Associations of
Hobart Town and Launceston selected, as their delegates, the Rev. J.
West and W. P. Weston, Esq., who, for some years, had been actively
engaged in the struggle against transportation. A public breakfast was
given by their constituents at the port of embarkation, at which Mr.
Sharland presided. The delegates explained their views. They were going
forth to change the policy of a mighty empire. "We," said they, "assert
that a community should deal with its own crime; at least, so deal with
it that, in its disposal, it shall not injure those who have never
offended,--so that, at least, the honest labourer shall not be brought
into unfavorable competition with the hardened criminal,--so that, at
all events, our sons shall not be driven from their homes to seek
employment in distant lands, there to meet suspicion and contempt." They
disclaimed all intentions inconsistent with constitutional loyalty, and
all weapons but those of justice and truth. "We are a loyal people, and
have given abundant proof of our loyalty, but it is not an unalterable
principle. There is an old proverb: 'The sweetest wine makes the sourest
vinegar.'" On the departure of the delegates (Jan. 15, 1851) they were
attended by the Launceston Association and a large concourse of people.
The vessels in the harbour were decorated with their colours, and the
whole scene was imposing. Three cheers were given for the Australasian
Conference, and three for the Queen. As the vessel moved from the wharf,
the band struck up the air which well expressed the feelings of the
moment--"Rule Britannia: Britons never shall be slaves." "In a few
weeks," said a spectator, "the Australasian League will be a great
fact--an epoch in the history of Australia. We have seen the beginning
of the end."

When the delegates landed at Victoria they were warmly welcomed. An
address was read and presented to them by the mayor, Mr. Westgarth, the
member for Melbourne, Mr. Stawell, and other gentlemen of the
association. "We bid you," said they, "God speed, in the high and holy
mission on which you come. Rest assured that the colonists of Victoria
will go with you heart and hand, and they will not cease their efforts
until the emancipation of the Australian colonies from the oppression of
British crime shall be fully accomplished." "You," said the delegates in
reply, "can confer no greater honor on the province that bears the name
of Victoria, than by initiating measures which may assure the Australian
world that that illustrious name shall everywhere be the guarantee of
justice and truth." The delegates and the local association met in the
town council chamber, and concerted the plans of future action. After
several protracted sittings the terms of confederation were settled,
and a "LEAGUE AND SOLEMN ENGAGEMENT" formed for the Australian
world.[262]

This covenant bound the subscribers to reject convict labour afterwards
arriving; to employ their powers electoral, official, and legislative,
for the extinction of transportation; and to afford their utmost
assistance to all who might suffer in the lawful promotion of the cause.
Another article, pledging non-intercourse with obstinate
transportationists, was expunged on the motion of Messrs. West and
Stawell, as scarcely within the range of moral force, and needless in
the state of public feeling. To frame a confederation securing perfect
independence of action in the separate colonies, and the effective
co-operation of all, was a more difficult task. This, was, however,
fully accomplished. The members, admitted by subscription alone, elected
the provincial councils, who appointed their delegates. These formed the
general conference. This body enacted the rules of united operation;
they appointed an executive board to carry them out, and nominated
gentlemen in London to direct operations in Great Britain. The local
councils retaining control over the funds collected within their bounds
were authorised to contribute for common purposes, and to appoint paid
delegates to carry home their remonstrances to the English government
and people. Such was the constitution of the League, which may hereafter
suggest the union of the colonies under the sanction of the crown. The
delegates adopted addresses to the British and the Australian public. To
the colonies they depicted the vast moment of this agitation, and
invoked their instant and earnest aid, closing with these solemn
appeals: "Ponder deeply, fellow colonists of Australia, the prospect
that lies before you. Consider well the moral and even the merely
economical relations of the question. Reflect on the subject of the
administration of justice, not only with reference to its enormous
expense, but also as to the social effect of the ceaseless and weary
labours of our criminal courts. Reflect on the vast and gloomy gaols
that must meet our eyes in a noble and fruitful land, where prosperity
should have banished almost the remembrance of crime; on the arrays of
our police that ever remind us of the noxious elements of our
communities; and think, too, of our daily press that might edify a
virtuous public by accounts of incessant progress and well doing, but
which, faithful to the cause of truth, must ever teem with the harrowing
evidence of the depravity of our fellow-beings. And again turn to the
scene that so frequently closes upon the career of the convict. Consider
the helpless pauperism of improvidence; constitutions ruined by vice and
profligacy; asylums and hospitals overflowing with degraded and wretched
outcasts, descending to the grave without respect and without sympathy,
quitting a world which they had only dishonoured and abused."

"In conclusion, fellow colonists, with reference to this momentous
question, let us not argue with the home government either on the law of
the case, whether that be with them or with us, or on the relative power
of the contending parties. The accidents of law or force, whichever way
they might prevail, can never remedy the social disorders we complain
of. Let us then represent to the British government, to the British
parliament, and to the British public, that in the present state and
prospects of the world, it is a great moral obligation on the part of
our parent state, not to eject her criminals into other societies
already charged with their own, but to retain and manage them within
herself."

In their address to the united kingdom they united remonstrance with
warning: "We ask our fellow countrymen" said they, "to look at the map
of the world; to measure the distance between England and her Australian
dependencies; to mark their geographical relations with gigantic
empires; and to estimate aright their future importance as elements of
her wealth, greatness, and glory. If the colonists are compelled to own
that their interests may be ruined by an official despatch--that their
name and fame may be dishonoured, to relieve the gaols of Great
Britain--if their youth cannot visit any country under an Australian
flag without being made to feel that they were born in a degraded
section of the globe, we are at a loss to imagine what advantages
conferred by the sovereignty of Great Britain can compensate for the
stigma of its brand."

"We address the words of supplication, not of threatening. A few short
years, and that which is now a grievance will grow into a quarrel. By
instant concession, an act of justice will become a monument of imperial
clemency. But these colonies are solemnly pledged, each to the other, by
their mutual interests,--their future destinies,--their fellowship of
weal and woe,--and now by their League and Solemn Engagement, to achieve
the freedom of their common country."

Having arranged the plan of action, the association convened a meeting
of the Victorians. On the memorable 1st of February, 1851, the league
was solemnly inaugurated, being signed by the Tasmanian delegates, and
by the mayor, William Nicholson, Esq., William Westgarth, Esq., M.L.C.,
and Montgomery Bell, Esq., alderman, as delegates for Melbourne. This
done, a banner of deep blue, spangled with the Southern cross, adorned
with the national colors, and bordered with white on which the date of
the confederation was traced in letters of gold, was unfurled and
greeted with the loud acclamations of the assembly. A council of nine
was afterwards elected by ballot, composed of the most eminent citizens,
the mayor being president.[263]

It was determined to raise £20,000 as a league fund in the Australian
colonies. Warmed by the advice and example of Mr. Bell, the opulent
supporters of the cause resolved to take the chief burden on themselves.
The delegates for Melbourne each subscribed one hundred guineas. Mr.
Moor, the member for Port Phillip, added fifty to this sum as a special
token of his sympathy with Tasmania. Thirty houses of business followed
with one hundred guineas each. The mayor of Geelong, Dr. Thompson, set
an example of similar liberality. A thousand persons met the delegates
in that town; formed their own council, and embraced the league with
enthusiasm. In less than a month nearly £7,000 was subscribed in
Victoria alone.

But while the people were thus liberal in promoting the social freedom,
their benevolence was drawn into another channel. A mournful visitation
desolated the homes, and destroyed the lives of several of their fellow
citizens. On the 6th of February, known as "black Thursday," the
thermometer was 115 in the shade, the sun, obscured by murky mists,
looked like a globe of blood, the air was loaded with smoke and ashes,
and as the night closed in, columns of fire were seen every where in the
distance. The uninclosed country was sweept by the resistless element.
Sometimes swifter than the fleetest horse, it overtook the traveller who
could preserve his life only by facing round and dashing through its
least impervious range. The parched leaves of the forest kindled at the
first glance of the flame. Sheep and cattle fell dead--farms and stock
yards were destroyed in a few minutes. In many instances the blaze
encircled the unfortunate before the danger was perceived. A strong hot
wind bore along ashes, and carried them far over the ocean, where
falling on the decks of vessels fifty miles from land, the passengers
were terrified with vague apprehension, or thought that the end of the
world was come. The effects of this devastation were in some places
appalling. The Barrabool Hills, near Geelong, a district of romantic
beauty celebrated for its vines, and occupied by small holders, were
covered with blackened ruins. The whole family of Mr. M Leland, a
settler near Melbourne, perished. The fire suddenly seized his dwelling
and intercepted his escape. His wife and five children dropt one by one:
he endeavoured to save his little boy, but he was suffocated in his
arms; the unhappy parent was himself discovered a few hours after, by a
shepherd, in a creek, where he had found refuge from his dread pursuer.

The mayor and corporation of Melbourne, then the only representative
body in the province, presented the Tasmanian delegates with an address,
and entertained them with splendid hospitality. A banner, bought by
general subscription, was committed to their charge as a present to the
colonists of Tasmania. The ladies of Victoria graced the ceremony of
presentation. In giving this beautiful emblem of Australian re-union,
"Gentlemen," said the mayor, "I pray you to receive it in the name of
the people of Port Phillip, and may it remain nailed to the mast until
these colonies are emancipated from convictism." "We accept it, with
gratitude," they replied,--"May the flag which adorns it ever float
above it in mild sovereignty: the noble nation from which we sprung will
applaud and assist us. Such are our hopes; but whether they are doomed
to disappointment or not, we shall discharge our duty as subjects, and
then commit our cause to the righteous judgment of God. May He watch
over our proceedings; may He permit us to add another to those bloodless
victories which teach the oppressed to confide in the armour of truth
while they warn all men that against weapons of such heavenly temper the
shields of the mighty are lifted in vain."

By this time the people of New South Wales became warmly interested in
the league. No time was lost. To obtain the active assistance of that
great colony was to insure success. Messrs. Moore and Westgarth, members
of the legislature, and Dr. Thompson, mayor of Geelong, were deputed to
act in the metropolis for Victoria. The delegates of Tasmania returned
home. The banner intrusted to their care was publicly delivered at a
meeting, of which, Mr. Dry was chairman.[264] Councils were chosen for
north and south Tasmania, and several thousand pounds were added to the
league fund.

Messrs. West and Weston were commissioned to attend the conference at
Sydney. Joined by the delegates for Victoria, they landed in March. A
large concourse of citizens assembled at the Royal Hotel, where an
address, breathing encouragement and hope, was read by Mr. Charles
Cowper, in the name of the New South Wales association. The delegates,
invited to a public banquet in honor of their mission, were met by the
city members, the mayor, the principal merchants, and professional
gentlemen. The immense wool store of Messrs. Mort, decorated for the
occasion, exhibited a striking scene of luxury and magnificence.
Speeches, such as Britons make when their hearts are loyal and their
wrongs are felt, promised a hearty struggle, and predicted a certain
victory. A public meeting of the colonists assembled to recognise the
League, and dissolve the colonial association. Dr. Lang proposed another
covenant drawn up by himself. It recited the chief facts stated in that
of Victoria, but added: "And if it should be necessary in the struggle
upon which we are now deliberately entering, for the protection and
defence of our adopted country, as well as in the vindication of our
rights as Britons, ... to have recourse to the last remedy of the
oppressed, we appeal to God and the world, as to whether we shall not
have indefeasible right and eternal justice on our side. So help us
God." A league, based on moral force, and disclaiming all weapons but
those of persuasion and entreaty, was evidently at an end if armed
resistance were contemplated as the final resource. The earnest
objections of the delegates were supported by Mr. Lamb. The mercantile
and professional classes decidedly disapproved of the substitution; but
the strength of numbers might have carried the threatening clause had
not Dr. Lang consented to abandon it. Never was the league in so much
danger, it being determined by the delegates to relinquish all idea of
confederation on any terms inconsistent with constitutional resistance.
A proposal to join the league was carried amidst triumphant cheering. A
council was chosen by ballot. Messrs. Charles Cowper, Robert Campbell,
and Gilbert Wright were appointed delegates for New South Wales. The
most impressive meeting held by the delegates, was convened in the
congregational church of Sydney. A thousand persons, chiefly heads of
families, and of both sexes, listened with absorbing interest to the
appeals of clergymen, protestant and catholic, to principles familiar to
the patriot and the christian. The venerable metropolitan, in accounting
for his absence, recorded his conviction in terms suited to his office
and experience, and in a strain of reproof and warning, which no
government will venture to disregard.[265] The first conference of the
united colonies was held in the city of Sydney and closed its labours on
the 1st day of May, 1851. A permanent executive board and a London
delegation, were nominated; Mr. Charles Cowper being appointed the first
president of the Australasian League, and Mr. Gilbert Wright, secretary.

The appointment of Mr. J. C. King as the delegate for Melbourne, and
other gentlemen resident in London to act in the same capacity, was
intended to agitate the colonial cause beneath the walls of parliament,
and thus by multiplied agencies to weary the ministers into justice--to
conquer their obstinacy by a perpetual coming. It was the earnest desire
of the founders of the league to employ all possible means consistent
with loyal and constitutional principles, that the blame of ultimate
consequences, if adverse, might remain with the servants of the crown. A
letter of instructions addressed to Mr. J. A. Jackson and other
delegates by the executive board of the league and signed by the
president, stated clearly the duties which devolved upon them. "You will
bear in mind that yours is the work of testimony, that we do not hold
you responsible for the result. We are discharging by you a duty we owe
to the parent country. We wish you to state our case; to deprecate the
evils we suffer. We wish you to depict the vast resources and unrivalled
beauty of these colonies, and to insist on the injustice and folly of
degrading them to the purposes of a prison. We are anxious that you
should tell our countrymen at home, that here is a land capable of
boundless prosperity, that our whalers fish upon our coasts, that we
number our sheep by millions, that our wheat is famed in every market in
the world; that there are millions of acres over which the plough may be
driven, and where the axe is not required as pioneer. You will tell them
that we love our native country, and rejoice in our share of her
heritage of glory, that we offer our filial duty and manly affiance,
but, that we offer them on this condition, that we, and our children,
and their country, shall be _free_. This granted, every hour will
strengthen the relations already established between us; but should the
object of our League, so near to our hearts, fail us, should the British
public prove deaf or indifferent, or the minister prove inexorable, your
mission will have been discharged; and we must await, as best we may,
the development of those providential purposes which are often most
obscure when they are nearest the dawn. 'England has no right to cast
out amongst other nations, or upon naked shores, either her poverty or
her crime. This is not the way in which a great and wealthy people, a
MOTHER OF NATIONS, ought to colonize.'"

"Never has the question of transportation assumed a greater importance
than at the present moment. The colonists are fretted by the vacillation
of her Majesty's government, but they are anxious to know that their
honor and happiness are compatible with their present political
relations. The plantation of new colonies in our vicinity, the now
constant intercourse with the American continent, the discovery of gold
fields, large in extent and abundant in production, on the Western
Cordilleras of New South Wales, and the thence certain rapid influx of
population, all make the future an object of solicitude. It may be your
happiness to contribute to the achievement of this great moral victory,
to the removal of those intolerable burdens imposed by a despotic
minister, and permitted by the indifference of the British Nation,--and
thus to the establishment of a closer union between these colonies and
the parent state."

The chief reliance of the confederates, however, was on the approaching
elections. The new constitutional act demanded a fresh appeal to the
people. The constituencies of the Australian world were to decide its
fate. The issue was no longer doubtful, except where the right of voting
was conferred on few, and the influence of squatters paramount. Such
places, were however, comparatively numerous, and a hard and earnest
struggle was expected in the northern district of New South Wales. The
conference of the League terminated its sittings on the 1st of May. On
the 5th, the official corps of Victoria, the representatives and the
delegates, left the wharf of Sydney, and amidst the cheers and
forebodings of many quitted a political connection which had been often
the source of angry strife. Victoria and New South Wales were now
separate governments. The new colony, gigantic in its youth, threatened
the supremacy of the middle district, while Moreton Bay was clamorous
for a separate executive.

But on the 6th of May a discovery was announced, which changed the
fortunes of the Australian empire. The predictions of science were
fulfilled. It was stated in the _Quarterly Review_, (Sept. 1850), that
New South Wales would probably be found wonderfully rich in precious
metals. Scarcely had the conjecture reached the colony before it was
verified, and Mr. Hargraves, a practical miner, discovered the gold of
Bathurst. It was felt by the former apologists of transportation that
the policy of England must condemn its continuance not less than the
interests of the Australias. Mr. Wentworth was the first to announce the
altered position of the question. He reminded the electors that he was
originally opposed to the revival or continuance of transportation,
could it by any means be got rid of in the whole Australian group, and
that this was no longer impossible; "that a new and unexpected era had
dawned, which in a few years would precipitate the colony into a
nation." He, therefore, pledged himself to join with them in any
remonstrance intended to terminate transportation, and to prevent the
formation of any penal settlement in the southern hemisphere.[266] This
manifesto was adopted by the former advocates of transportation in New
South Wales, from the loftiest even to the least. Gold fields beyond the
dreams of oriental vision were rapidly unfolded. The relations of labor
and capital were entirely deranged, and the future became uncertain and
perplexing. A few employers who imagined that their personal interests
would be considered, grew more earnest for convict labor, not thinking
how it could be retained, or caring for the crime and misery it might
entail. But they were few. More generous spirits sympathised with the
general aspect of a change which promised to people a region as fair and
fertile, and as large as Europe. The strenuous resistance of
transportation had cleared the character of the colonists, and proved
that their feelings harmonised with the universal and unchangeable
convictions of mankind. The first news of this great discovery was
accompanied by the strongest evidence of Australian loyalty to the
common law of nations. "The success of the confederation (said the first
journal of Europe), forms a remarkable indication of a feeling in all
the Australian colonies of a more elevated character than they have
hitherto obtained credit for. It becomes more than ordinarily important
to ascertain the exact nature of that moral and social atmosphere which
so large a number of our countrymen are probably destined to breathe
(October '51)."

On their return to Tasmania the delegates were greeted with addresses
and public demonstrations. The settlers, with a manly consistency,
despite the threatened scarcity of labor, adhered to their flag and
responded with cheers to those who predicted a temporary struggle and a
bright futurity. But the agents of the convict department endeavored to
rekindle the last embers of jealousy and hate. To the employers they
predicted ruin; to the houseowners, desolation and emptiness; to the
publicans the reign of puritanism; to the emancipists the ascendancy of
the free, to be followed by unextinguishable persecution. All the
sentiments and epithets known in Irish polemics and Irish seditions were
re-arranged in the convict service, and scattered with profusion. The
League was assailed with peculiar virulence, and all its distinguished
adherents held up to scorn as religious and immoral men, as hateful for
their covetousness and contemptible for their poverty. Sometimes they
were locusts, swarming everywhere; at others they were a scattered and
miserable remnant--which the government and the convict party would
speedily sweep away. The governor himself during a procession through
the colony was cheered as the great champion of the pardoned, and
placards represented that he had defeated a scheme of the settlers to
deprive them of their votes. He entered the city in state--and while he
passed under a triumphal arch, Mr. West, the Hobart Town delegate, was
publicly gibbetted. But the Trades' Union, and an association of the
Native Youth, assembled in the evening, and in the presence of many
thousands, the well-dressed effigies of Earl Grey and the governor were
thrown into an enormous fire.

