Mrs. Peyton had been sitting alone with these thoughts for the greater part
of the afternoon, and dusk was falling when Dick entered the drawing-room.
In the dim light, with his pallour heightened by the sombre effect of
his mourning, he came upon her almost startlingly, with a revival of
some long-effaced impression which, for a moment, gave her the sense of
struggling among shadows. She did not, at first, know what had produced the
effect; then she saw that it was his likeness to his father.

"Well--is it over?" she asked, as he threw himself into a chair without
speaking.

"Yes: I've looked through everything." He leaned back, crossing his hands
behind his head, and gazing past her with a look of utter lassitude.

She paused a moment, and then said tentatively: "Tomorrow you will be able
to go back to your work."

"Oh--my work," he exclaimed, as if to brush aside an ill-timed pleasantry.

"Are you too tired?"

"No." He rose and began to wander up and down the room. "I'm not
tired.--Give me some tea, will you?" He paused before her while she poured
the cup, and then, without taking it, turned away to light a cigarette.

"Surely there is still time?" she suggested, with her eyes on him.

"Time? To finish my plans? Oh, yes--there's time. But they're not worth
it."

"Not worth it?" She started up, and then dropped back into her seat,
ashamed of having betrayed her anxiety. "They are worth as much as they
were last week," she said with an attempt at cheerfulness.

"Not to me," he returned. "I hadn't seen Darrow's then."

There was a long silence. Mrs. Peyton sat with her eyes fixed on her
clasped hands, and her son paced the room restlessly.

"Are they so wonderful?" she asked at length.

"Yes."

She paused again, and then said, lifting a tremulous glance to his face:
"That makes his offer all the more beautiful."

Dick was lighting another cigarette, and his face was turned from her.
"Yes--I suppose so," he said in a low tone.

"They were quite finished, he told me," she continued, unconsciously
dropping her voice to the pitch of his.

"Yes."

"Then they will be entered, I suppose?"

"Of course--why not?" he answered almost sharply.

"Shall you have time to attend to all that and to finish yours too?"

"Oh, I suppose so. I've told you it isn't a question of tune. I see now
that mine are not worth bothering with."

She rose and approached him, laying her hands on his shoulders. "You are
tired and unstrung; how can you judge? Why not let me look at both designs
to-morrow?"

Under her gaze he flushed abruptly and drew back with a half-impatient
gesture.

"Oh, I'm afraid that wouldn't help me; you'd be sure to think mine best,"
he said with a laugh.

"But if I could give you good reasons?" she pressed him.

He took her hand, as if ashamed of his impatience. "Dear mother, if you had
any reasons their mere existence would prove that they were bad."

His mother did not return his smile. "You won't let me see the two designs
then?" she said with a faint tinge of insistence.

"Oh, of course--if you want to--if you only won't talk about it now! Can't
you see that I'm pretty nearly dead-beat?" he burst out uncontrollably; and
as she stood silent, he added with a weary fall in his voice, "I think I'll
go upstairs and see if I can't get a nap before dinner."

       *       *       *       *       *

Though they had separated upon the assurance that she should see the two
designs if she wished it, Mrs. Peyton knew they would not be shown to her.
Dick, indeed, would not again deny her request; but had he not reckoned on
the improbability of her renewing it? All night she lay confronted by that
question. The situation shaped itself before her with that hallucinating
distinctness which belongs to the midnight vision. She knew now why Dick
had suddenly reminded her of his father: had she not once before seen the
same thought moving behind the same eyes? She was sure it had occurred to
Dick to use Darrow's drawings. As she lay awake in the darkness she could
hear him, long after midnight, pacing the floor overhead: she held her
breath, listening to the recurring beat of his foot, which seemed that of
an imprisoned spirit revolving wearily in the cage of the same thought. She
felt in every fibre that a crisis in her son's life had been reached, that
the act now before him would have a determining effect on his whole future.
The circumstances of her past had raised to clairvoyance her natural
insight into human motive, had made of her a moral barometer responding to
the faintest fluctuations of atmosphere, and years of anxious meditation
had familiarized her with the form which her son's temptations were likely
to take. The peculiar misery of her situation was that she could not,
except indirectly, put this intuition, this foresight, at his service.
It was a part of her discernment to be aware that life is the only real
counsellor, that wisdom unfiltered through personal experience does not
become a part of the moral tissues. Love such as hers had a great office,
the office of preparation and direction; but it must know how to hold its
hand and keep its counsel, how to attend upon its object as an invisible
influence rather than as an active interference.

All this Kate Peyton had told herself again and again, during those hours
of anxious calculation in which she had tried to cast Dick's horoscope; but
not in her moments of most fantastic foreboding had she figured so cruel a
test of her courage. If her prayers for him had taken precise shape, she
might have asked that he should be spared the spectacular, the dramatic
appeal to his will-power: that his temptations should slip by him in a dull
disguise. She had secured him against all ordinary forms of baseness; the
vulnerable point lay higher, in that region of idealizing egotism which is
the seat of life in such natures.

Years of solitary foresight gave her mind a singular alertness in dealing
with such possibilities. She saw at once that the peril of the situation
lay in the minimum of risk it involved. Darrow had employed no assistant in
working out his plans for the competition, and his secluded life made it
almost certain that he had not shown them to any one, and that she and Dick
alone knew them to have been completed. Moreover, it was a part of Dick's
duty to examine the contents of his friend's office, and in doing this
nothing would be easier than to possess himself of the drawings and make
use of any part of them that might serve his purpose. He had Darrow's
authority for doing so; and though the act involved a slight breach of
professional probity, might not his friend's wishes be invoked as a secret
justification? Mrs. Peyton found herself almost hating poor Darrow for
having been the unconscious instrument of her son's temptation. But what
right had she, after all, to suspect Dick of considering, even for a
moment, the act of which she was so ready to accuse him? His unwillingness
to let her see the drawings might have been the accidental result of
lassitude and discouragement. He was tired and troubled, and she had chosen
the wrong moment to make the request. His want of readiness might even be
due to the wish to conceal from her how far his friend had surpassed him.
She knew his sensitiveness on this point, and reproached herself for not
having foreseen it. But her own arguments failed to convince her. Deep
beneath her love for her boy and her faith in him there lurked a nameless
doubt. She could hardly now, in looking back, define the impulse upon which
she had married Denis Peyton: she knew only that the deeps of her nature
had been loosened, and that she had been borne forward on their current
to the very fate from which her heart recoiled. But if in one sense her
marriage remained a problem, there was another in which her motherhood
seemed to solve it. She had never lost the sense of having snatched her
child from some dim peril which still lurked and hovered; and he became
more closely hers with every effort of her vigilant love. For the act
of rescue had not been accomplished once and for all in the moment
of immolation: it had not been by a sudden stroke of heroism, but by
ever-renewed and indefatigable effort, that she had built up for him the
miraculous shelter of her love. And now that it stood there, a hallowed
refuge against failure, she could not even set a light in the pane, but
must let him grope his way to it unaided.


V

Mrs. Peyton's midnight musings summed themselves up in the conclusion that
the next few hours would end her uncertainty. She felt the day to be
decisive. If Dick offered to show her the drawings, her fears would be
proved groundless; if he avoided the subject, they were justified.

She dressed early in order not to miss him at breakfast; but as she entered
the dining-room the parlour-maid told her that Mr. Peyton had overslept
himself, and had rung to have his breakfast sent upstairs. Was it a pretext
to avoid her? She was vexed at her own readiness to see a portent in the
simplest incident; but while she blushed at her doubts she let them govern
her. She left the dining-room door open, determined not to miss him if
he came downstairs while she was at breakfast; then she went back to the
drawing-room and sat down at her writing-table, trying to busy herself with
some accounts while she listened for his step. Here too she had left the
door open; but presently even this slight departure from her daily usage
seemed a deviation from the passive attitude she had adopted, and she rose
and shut the door. She knew that she could still hear his step on the
stairs--he had his father's quick swinging gait--but as she sat listening,
and vainly trying to write, the closed door seemed to symbolize a refusal
to share in his trial, a hardening of herself against his need of her. What
if he should come down intending to speak, and should be turned from his
purpose? Slighter obstacles have deflected the course of events in those
indeterminate moments when the soul floats between two tides. She sprang
up quickly, and as her hand touched the latch she heard his step on the
stairs.

When he entered the drawing-room she had regained the writing-table and
could lift a composed face to his. He came in hurriedly, yet with a kind of
reluctance beneath his haste: again it was his father's step. She smiled,
but looked away from him as he approached her; she seemed to be re-living
her own past as one re-lives things in the distortion of fever.

"Are you off already?" she asked, glancing at the hat in his hand.

"Yes; I'm late as it is. I overslept myself." He paused and looked vaguely
about the room. "Don't expect me till late--don't wait dinner for me."

She stirred impulsively. "Dick, you're overworking--you'll make yourself
ill."

"Nonsense. I'm as fit as ever this morning. Don't be imagining things."

He dropped his habitual kiss on her forehead, and turned to go. On the
threshold he paused, and she felt that something in him sought her and then
drew back. "Good-bye," he called to her as the door closed on him.

She sat down and tried to survey the situation divested of her midnight
fears. He had not referred to her wish to see the drawings: but what did
the omission signify? Might he not have forgotten her request? Was she
not forcing the most trivial details to fit in with her apprehensions?
Unfortunately for her own reassurance, she knew that her familiarity with
Dick's processes was based on such minute observation, and that, to such
intimacy as theirs, no indications were trivial. She was as certain as if
he had spoken, that when he had left the house that morning he was weighing
the possibility of using Darrow's drawings, of supplementing his own
incomplete design from the fulness of his friend's invention. And with a
bitter pang she divined that he was sorry he had shown her Darrow's letter.

It was impossible to remain face to face with such conjectures, and though
she had given up all her engagements during the few days since Darrow's
death, she now took refuge in the thought of a concert which was to take
place at a friend's house that morning. The music-room, when she entered,
was thronged with acquaintances, and she found transient relief in that
dispersal of attention which makes society an anesthetic for some forms
of wretchedness. Contact with the pressure of busy indifferent life often
gives remoteness to questions which have clung as close as the flesh to the
bone; and if Mrs. Peyton did not find such complete release, she at least
interposed between herself and her anxiety the obligation to dissemble it.
But the relief was only momentary, and when the first bars of the overture
turned from her the smiles of recognition among which she had tried to lose
herself, she felt a deeper sense of isolation. The music, which at another
time would have swept her away on some rich current of emotion, now seemed
to island her in her own thoughts, to create an artificial solitude in
which she found herself more immitigably face to face with her fears. The
silence, the _recueillement_, about her gave resonance to the inner
voices, lucidity to the inner vision, till she seemed enclosed in a
luminous empty horizon against which every possibility took the sharp edge
of accomplished fact. With relentless precision the course of events was
unrolled before her: she saw Dick yielding to his opportunity, snatching
victory from dishonour, winning love, happiness and success in the act by
which he lost himself. It was all so simple, so easy, so inevitable, that
she felt the futility of struggling or hoping against it. He would win the
competition, would marry Miss Verney, would press on to achievement through
the opening which the first success had made for him.

As Mrs. Peyton reached this point in her forecast, she found her outward
gaze arrested by the face of the young lady who so dominated her inner
vision. Miss Verney, a few rows distant, sat intent upon the music, in that
attitude of poised motion which was her nearest approach to repose. Her
slender brown profile with its breezy hair, her quick eye, and the lips
which seemed to listen as well as speak, all betokened to Mrs. Peyton a
nature through which the obvious energies blew free, a bare open stretch
of consciousness without shelter for tenderer growths. She shivered to
think of Dick's frail scruples exposed to those rustling airs. And then,
suddenly, a new thought struck her. What if she might turn this force to
her own use, make it serve, unconsciously to Dick, as the means of his
deliverance? Hitherto she had assumed that her son's worst danger lay in
the chance of his confiding his difficulty to Clemence Verney; and she
had, in her own past, a precedent which made her think such a confidence
not unlikely. If he did carry his scruples to the girl, she argued, the
latter's imperviousness, her frank inability to understand them, would have
the effect of dispelling them like mist; and he was acute enough to know
this and profit by it. So she had hitherto reasoned; but now the girl's
presence seemed to clarify her perceptions, and she told herself that
something in Dick's nature, something which she herself had put there,
would resist this short cut to safety, would make him take the more
tortuous way to his goal rather than gain it through the privacies of the
heart he loved. For she had lifted him thus far above his father, that it
would be a disenchantment to him to find that Clemence Verney did not share
his scruples. On this much, his mother now exultingly felt, she could count
in her passive struggle for supremacy. No, he would never, never tell
Clemence Verney--and his one hope, his sure salvation, therefore lay in
some one else's telling her.

The excitement of this discovery had nearly, in mid-concert, swept Mrs.
Peyton from her seat to the girl's side. Fearing to miss the latter in
the throng at the entrance, she slipped out during the last number and,
lingering in the farther drawing-room, let the dispersing audience drift
her in Miss Verney's direction. The girl shone sympathetically on her
approach, and in a moment they had detached themselves from the crowd and
taken refuge in the perfumed emptiness of the conservatory.

The girl, whose sensations were always easily set in motion, had at first a
good deal to say of the music, for which she claimed, on her hearer's part,
an active show of approval or dissent; but this dismissed, she turned a
melting face on Mrs. Peyton and said with one of her rapid modulations of
tone: "I was so sorry about poor Mr. Darrow."

Mrs. Peyton uttered an assenting sigh. "It was a great grief to us--a great
loss to my son."

"Yes--I know. I can imagine what you must have felt. And then it was so
unlucky that it should have happened just now."

Mrs. Peyton shot a reconnoitring glance at her profile. "His dying, you
mean, on the eve of success?"

Miss Verney turned a frank smile upon her. "One ought to feel that, of
course--but I'm afraid I am very selfish where my friends are concerned,
and I was thinking of Mr. Peyton's having to give up his work at such a
critical moment." She spoke without a note of deprecation: there was a
pagan freshness in her opportunism.

Mrs. Peyton was silent, and the girl continued after a pause: "I suppose
now it will be almost impossible for him to finish his drawings in time.
It's a pity he hadn't worked out the whole scheme a little sooner. Then the
details would have come of themselves."

Mrs. Peyton felt a contempt strangely mingled with exultation. If only the
girl would talk in that way to Dick!

"He has hardly had time to think of himself lately," she said, trying to
keep the coldness out of her voice.

"No, of course not," Miss Verney assented; "but isn't that all the more
reason for his friends to think of him? It was very dear of him to give up
everything to nurse Mr. Darrow--but, after all, if a man is going to get on
in his career there are times when he must think first of himself."

Mrs. Peyton paused, trying to choose her words with deliberation. It was
quite clear now that Dick had not spoken, and she felt the responsibility
that devolved upon her.

"Getting on in a career--is that always the first thing to be considered?"
she asked, letting her eyes rest musingly on the girl's.

The glance did not disconcert Miss Verney, who returned it with one of
equal comprehensiveness. "Yes," she said quickly, and with a slight blush.
"With a temperament like Mr. Peyton's I believe it is. Some people can pick
themselves up after any number of bad falls: I am not sure that he could. I
think discouragement would weaken instead of strengthening him."

Both women had forgotten external conditions in the quick reach for each
other's meanings. Mrs. Peyton flushed, her maternal pride in revolt; but
the answer was checked on her lips by the sense of the girl's unexpected
insight. Here was some one who knew Dick as well as she did--should she say
a partisan or an accomplice? A dim jealousy stirred beneath Mrs. Peyton's
other emotions: she was undergoing the agony which the mother feels at the
first intrusion on her privilege of judging her child; and her voice had a
flutter of resentment.

"You must have a poor opinion of his character," she said.

Miss Verney did not remove her eyes, but her blush deepened beautifully. "I
have, at any rate," she Said, "a high one of his talent. I don't suppose
many men have an equal amount of moral and intellectual energy."

"And you would cultivate the one at the expense of the other?"

"In certain cases--and up to a certain point." She shook out the long fur
of her muff, one of those silvery flexible furs which clothe a woman with a
delicate sumptuousness. Everything about her, at the moment, seemed rich
and cold--everything, as Mrs. Peyton quickly noted, but the blush lingering
under her dark skin; and so complete was the girl's self-command that the
blush seemed to be there only because it had been forgotten.

"I dare say you think me strange," she continued. "Most people do, because
I speak the truth. It's the easiest way of concealing one's feelings. I
can, for instance, talk quite openly about Mr. Peyton under shelter of your
inference that I shouldn't do so if I were what is called 'interested' in
him. And as I _am_ interested in him, my method has its advantages!"
She ended with one of the fluttering laughs which seemed to flit from point
to point of her expressive person.

Mrs. Peyton leaned toward her. "I believe you are interested," she said
quietly; "and since I suppose you allow others the privilege you claim for
yourself, I am going to confess that I followed you here in the hope of
finding out the nature of your interest."

Miss Verney shot a glance at her, and drew away in a soft subsidence of
undulating furs.

"Is this an embassy?" she asked smiling.

"No: not in any sense."

The girl leaned back with an air of relief. "I'm glad; I should have
disliked--" She looked again at Mrs. Peyton. "You want to know what I mean
to do?"

"Yes."

"Then I can only answer that I mean to wait and see what he does."

"You mean that everything is contingent on his success?"

"_I_ am--if I'm everything," she admitted gaily.

The mother's heart was beating in her throat, and her words seemed to force
themselves out through the throbs.

"I--I don't quite see why you attach such importance to this special
success."

"Because he does," the girl returned instantly. "Because to him it is the
final answer to his self-questioning--the questioning whether he is ever to
amount to anything or not. He says if he has anything in him it ought to
come out now. All the conditions are favourable--it is the chance he has
always prayed for. You see," she continued, almost confidentially, but
without the least loss of composure--"you see he has told me a great deal
about himself and his various experiments--his phrases of indecision and
disgust. There are lots of tentative talents in the world, and the sooner
they are crushed out by circumstances the better. But it seems as though
he really had it in him to do something distinguished--as though the
uncertainty lay in his character and not in his talent. That is what
interests, what attracts me. One can't teach a man to have genius, but if
he has it one may show him how to use it. That is what I should be good
for, you see--to keep him up to his opportunities."

Mrs. Peyton had listened with an intensity of attention that left her reply
unprepared. There was something startling and yet half attractive in the
girl's avowal of principles which are oftener lived by than professed.

"And you think," she began at length, "that in this case he has fallen
below his opportunity?"

"No one can tell, of course; but his discouragement, his _abattement_,
is a bad sign. I don't think he has any hope of succeeding."

The mother again wavered a moment. "Since you are so frank," she then said,
"will you let me be equally so, and ask how lately you have seen him?"

The girl smiled at the circumlocution. "Yesterday afternoon," she said
simply.

"And you thought him--"

"Horribly down on his luck. He said himself that his brain was empty."

