    Weep, weep, O bleeding nation
      For the patriot spirit fled,
    All untold our country's future--
      Buried with the silent dead.
    God of battles, God of nations to our country send relief
      Turn each lamentation into joy whilst we mourn our murdered chief.

On the Saturday after the assassination of the President there was a
meeting held on the Common, and a vote taken to have the President's
body brought through Indianapolis, for the people to see his dear dead
face. The vote was taken by raising the hands, and when the question
was put in favor of it a thousand black hands were extended in the
air, seemingly higher and more visible than all the rest. Nor were
their hands alone raised, for in their deep sorrow and gloom they
raised their hearts to God, for well they knew that He, through
martyred blood, had made them free. It was some time before the
remains reached Indianapolis, as it was near the last of the route.
The body was placed in the centre of the hall of the State House, and
we marched in by fours, and divided into two on each side of the
casket, and passed directly through the hall. It was very
rainy,--nothing but umbrellas were to be seen in any direction. The
multitude were passing in and out from eight o'clock in the morning
till four o'clock in the afternoon. His body remained until twelve
o'clock in the evening, many distinguished persons visiting it, when
amid the booming of cannon, it moved on its way to Springfield, its
final resting-place. The death of the President was like an electric
shock to my soul. I could not feel convinced of his death until I
gazed upon his remains, and heard the last roll of the muffled drum
and the farewell boom of the cannon. I was then convinced that though
we were left to the tender mercies of God, we were without a leader.

    Gone, gone is our chieftain,
    The tried and the true;
    The grief of our nation the world never knew.
    We mourn as a nation has never yet mourned;
    The foe to our freedom more deeply has scorned.

    In the height of his glory in manhood's full prime,
    Our country's preserver through darkest of time;
    A merciful being, whose kindness all shared
    Shown mercy to others. Why was he not spared?

    The lover of Justice, the friend of the slave,
    He struck at oppression and made it a grave;
    He spoke for our bond-men, and chains from them fell,
    By making them soldiers they served our land well.

    Because he had spoken from sea unto sea
    Glad tidings go heavenward, our country is free,
    And angels I'm thinking looked down from above,
    With sweet smiles approving his great works of love.

    His name with the honor forever will live,
    And time to his laurels new lustre will give;
    He lived so unselfish, so loyal and true,
    That his deeds will shine brighter at every view.

    Then honor and cherish the name of the brave,
    The champion of freedom, the friend to the slave,
    The far-sighted statesman who saw a fair end,
    When north land and south land one flag shall defend.

    Rest, rest, fallen chieftain, thy labors are o'er,
    For thee mourns a nation as never before;
    Farewell honored chieftain whom millions adore,
    Farewell gentle spirit, whom heaven has won.


SISTER LOST--MOTHER'S ESCAPE


In two or three weeks after the body of the President was carried
through, my sister made her escape, but by some means we entirely
lost trace of her. We heard she was in a free State. In three months
my mother also escaped. She rose quite early in the morning, took my
little brother, and arrived at my place of service in the afternoon. I
was much surprised, and asked my mother how she came there. She could
scarcely tell me for weeping, but I soon found out the mystery. After
so many long years and so many attempts, for this was her seventh, she
at last succeeded, and we were now all free. My mother had been a
slave for more than forty-three years, and liberty was very sweet to
her. The sound of freedom was music in our ears; the air was pure and
fragrant; the genial rays of the glorious sun burst forth with a new
lustre upon us, and all creation resounded in responses of praise to
the author and creator of him who proclaimed life and freedom to the
slave. I was overjoyed with my personal freedom, but the joy at my
mother's escape was greater than anything I had ever known. It was a
joy that reaches beyond the tide and anchors in the harbor of eternal
rest. While in oppression, this eternal life-preserver had continually
wafted her toward the land of freedom, which she was confident of
gaining, whatever might betide. Our joy that we were permitted to
mingle together our earthly bliss in glorious strains of freedom was
indescribable. My mother responded with the children of Israel,--"The
Lord is my strength and my song. The Lord is a man of war, and the
Lord is his name." We left Indianapolis the day after my mother
arrived, and took the cars at eleven o'clock the following evening for
St. Louis, my native State. We were then free, and instead of being
hurried along, bare headed and half naked, through cars and boats, by
a brutal master with a bill of sale in his pocket, we were our own,
comfortably clothed, and having the true emblems of freedom.


MOTHER'S MARRIAGE


It appeared to me that the city presented an entirely new aspect. The
reader will remember that my mother was engaged to be married on the
evening after we were kidnapped, and that Mr. Adams, her intended, had
prepared the house for the occasion. We now went in search of him. He
had moved about five miles into the country. He had carefully
preserved his furniture and was patiently awaiting our return. We were
gone two years and four months. The clothing and furniture which we
had collected were all destroyed. It was over a year after we left St.
Louis before we heard from there. We went immediately from the cars to
my aunt's, and from there went to Mr. Adams' residence and took him by
surprise. They were married in a week after our return. My mother is
comfortably situated on a small farm with a kind and affectionate
companion, with whom she had formed an early acquaintance, and from
whom she had been severed by the ruthless hand of Wrong; but by the
divine hand of Justice they were now reunited forever.


MATTIE MEETS HER OLD MASTER--GOES TO SERVICE--IS SENT FOR BY HER
STEP-FATHER IN LAWRENCE, MASS.


In a short time I had selected a place of service, and was improving
my studies in a small way. The place I engaged was in the family where
I was born, where my mother lived when my father Jackson made his
escape. Although Mr. Canory's family were always kind to us, I felt a
great difference between freedom and slavery. After I had been there a
short time my step-father sent for me and my half brother to come to
Lawrence. He had been waiting ever since the State was free, hoping to
get some account of us. He had been informed, previously, that mother,
in trying to make her escape, had perished by the way, and the
children also, but he was never satisfied. He was aware that my aunt
was permanently in St. Louis, as her master had given her family their
freedom twenty years previous. She was formerly owned by Major Howe,
harness and leather dealer, yet residing in St. Louis. And long may he
live and his good works follow him and his posterity forever. My
father well knew the deception of the rebels, and was determined to
persevere until he had obtained a satisfactory account of his family.
A gentleman moved directly from Lawrence to St. Louis, who made
particular enquiries for us, and even called at my aunt's. We then
heard directly from my father, and commenced correspondence. He had
not heard directly from us since he made his escape, which was nine
years. He had never heard of his little son who my mother was
compelled by Mrs. Lewis to confine in a box. He was born eight months
after he left. As soon as possible after my mother consented to let my
little brother go to his father he sent means to assist us to make
preparations for our journey to the North. At first he only sent for
his little son. My mother was anxious about sending him alone. He was
only eleven years old, and perfectly unused to traveling, and had
never been away from his mother. Finally my father came to the
conclusion that, as my mother had endured such extreme hardships and
sufferings during the nine years he was not permitted to participate
or render her any assistance, that it would afford him much pleasure
in sending for us both, bearing our expenses and making us as
comfortable as his means would allow. Money was sent us, and our kind
friend, Mr. Howe, obtained our tickets and voluntarily assisted us in
starting. We left for the North on Monday, April 9th, and arrived safe
and sound, on the 11th. We found my step-father's residence about six
o'clock in the evening. He was not expecting us till the next day. Our
meeting is better imagined than told. I cannot describe it. His little
son was only two years old when he left, and I was eleven, and we
never expected to meet him again this side of eternity. It was Freedom
that brought us together. My father was comfortably situated in a nice
white cottage, containing some eight rooms, all well furnished, and
attached to it was a fine garden. His wife, who is a physician, was
absent, but returned on the following day. The people were kind and
friendly. They informed me there was no other colored family in the
city, but my step-mother was continually crowded with friends and
customers without distinction. My step-mother had buried her only son,
who returned from the war in a decline. The white friends were all in
deep sympathy with them. I felt immediately at home among such kind
and friendly people, and have never felt homesick, except when I think
of my poor mother's farewell embrace when she accompanied us to the
cars. As soon as my step-mother had arrived, and our excitement was
over, they commenced calculating upon placing me in the Sabbath school
at the church where my mother belonged. On the next Sabbath I
accompanied her and joined the Sabbath school, she occupying a side
seat about middle way up the house. I was not reminded of my color
except by an occasional loafer or the Irish, usually the colored man's
enemy. I was never permitted to attend a white church before, or ride
in any public conveyance without being placed in a car for the
especial purpose; and in the street cars we were not permitted to ride
at all, either South or West. Here I ride where I please, without the
slightest remark, except from the ignorant. Many ask me if I am
contented. They can imagine by the above contrast. My brother and
myself entered the public school, and found a host of interested
friends and formed many dear acquaintances whom I shall never forget.
After attending school a month the term closed. I advanced in my
studies as fast as could be expected. I never attended school but one
month before. I needed more attention than my kind teacher could
possibly bestow upon me, encumbered as she was by so many small
children. Mother then proposed my entering some select school and
placing myself entirely under its discipline and influence. I was much
pleased with the idea, but as they had already been to so much expense
for me, I could not wish to place them under any heavier contribution.
I had previously told my step-mother my story, and how often my own
mother had wished she could have it published.