After the sparkles once by these meanes kindled, cherish and feede them
by reading the word: Let it dwell richly in thine heart, excite thy
dulnesse by spirituall Hymnes. Love-songs enflame not lust, more, then
the Song of Songs doth zeale: Reade or sing the 119. Psalme; and if thou
beest not zealous, every verse will checke thee in thy throat:
Meditation is another helpe, approoved by _Isaacks_ and _Davids_
practice: An Art lately so taught, as I shall neede onely to poynt at
the choyce theames, suiting and furthering this argument. I need not goe
far to fetch this fire: I may strike it out of every word of this
Epistle to _Laodicea_. Behold the Lord God, especially thy Lord Christ
in his glorious titles and Majesty; for so hee beginnes his visions to
_John_; and his Epistles to the Churches, exciting their dull hearts. By
such apparitions did hee set on fire the heart of _Moses_ in the burning
bush; and enflamed _Stephan_, his first Martyr: answerable and
proportionable to which, are our serious contemplations. Behold him as
one that seeth thee, and knoweth thy workes; the rouzing preface of all
these Letters. _Casars_ eye made his souldiers prodigall of their blood.
The Atheist thinks God takes as much notice of him and his prayers, as
hee doth of the humming of Flyes and Bees; and therefore, no marvell if
his service bee formall and fashionable. The faithfull Christian by
faiths prospective sees him at home, and heares him saying, Well done
thou good servant; which maketh him to worke out his heart. Behold him
as the beginning of creatures, especially of the new creature. Oh! what
love hath hee shewed thee in thy redemption? out of what misery, into
what happinesse, by what a price, to what end; but that thou shouldest
bee zealous of good workes? Behold him as the faithfull witnesse, that
witnessed himselfe for thee a good witnesse, and heere faithfully
counsels thee to follow his patterne. Behold him as a speedie and royall
rewarder of his followers. Take thy selfe into paradise, represent to
thy selfe thy crowne, thy throne, thy white robes; looke not on the
things that are seene, but on the farre most excellent wait of glory;
looke upon these, and faint if thou canst. Behold also hee is a
consuming fire, a zealous God, hating lukewarmnesse not onely destroying
_Sodome_ with fire and brimstone, and providing _Tophet_ for his
enemies; but awaking also his drowzie servants, by judgements (as
_Absolon Joab_ by firing his corne) his Israelites by fiery serpents:
whom hee loveth, hee chasteneth, and keepeth them in the fornace of
fiery trialls, till they come to their right temper. Hee standeth and
knocketh: if nothing will arouze us, a time will come, when heaven and
earth shall burne with fire, and Christ shall come in flaming fire, to
render vengeance with fire unquenchable. Wee therefore that know the
terrour of that day, What manner of persons ought we to bee?

From God turne thine eyes unto man: set before thee the pillar, and
clowde of fiery examples, that have led us the way into Canaan. Hee is
but a dull lade that will not follow: The stories of the Scriptures, the
lives of the Fathers, the acts and monuments of the Church, have a
speciall vertue for this effect. The very pictures of the fires, and
Martyrs, cannot but warme thee. If thou canst meete with any living
examples, follow them, as they follow Christ, frequent their company:
even _Saul_ amongst the Prophets, will prophesie. No bangling hawke,
but with a high flyer will mend her pitch: the poorest good companion,
will doe thee some good; when _Silas_ came, _Paul_ burnt in the spirit:
a lesser sticke may fire a billet; If thou findest none, let the
coldnesse of the times heat thee, as frosts doe the fire; Let every
indignation make thee zealous, as the dunstery of the Monkes, made
_Erasmus_ studious: one way to bee rich in times of dearth, is to
engrosse a rare commodity, such as zeale is: now, if ever, _they have
destroyed thy Law_; It is now high time to be zealous.

Consider and emulate the children of this generation, to see how eager
every _Demas_ is for worldly promotion. How did that worthy Bishop
disdaine to see an harlot, more curiously to adorne her body unto sinne
and death, then hee could his soule unto life everlasting. It angred
_Demosthenes_ to see a Smith earlier at his anvile, then he was at his
deske.

When thou hast thus heat thy selfe, take heede of catching colde
againe, as many have done, and brought their zeale to deaths doore.

[Sidenote: Zeales extinguishers.]

This fire may goe out divers wayes: first by subtraction of fewell; if a
man forbeare his accustomed meales, will not his naturall heat decay?
The _Levites_ that kept Gods watch in the Temple, were charged
expressely, morning & evening, if not oftner, to looke to the lights and
the fire. Hee that shall forget (at the least) with the _Curfeau-bell_
in the evening to rake uppe his zeale by prayer, and with the day-bell
in the morning to stirre up & kindle the same, if not oftner with
_Daniel_; I cannot conceive how hee can possibly keepe fire in his
heart. Will God blesse such, as bid him not so much as good-morrow and
good-even?

Hee that shall despise or neglect prophesie, must hee not needes quench
the spirit? have I not marked glorious professors, who for some farme
sake, or other commodities, have flitted from Jerusalem to Jericho;
where the situation was good, but the waters nought; and their zeale
hath perished, because vision hath failed?

Such as reade the Bible by fits upon rainy dayes, not eating the booke
with _John_, but tasting onely with the tippe of the tongue: Such as
meditate by snatches, never chewing the cud and digesting their meat,
they may happily get a smackering, for discourse and table-talke; but
not enough to keepe soule & life together, much lesse for strength and
vigour. Such as forsake the best fellowship, and wax strange to holy
assemblies, (as now the manner of many is) how can they but take colde?
Can one coale alone keepe it selfe glowing?

Though it goe not out for want of matter, yet may it bee put out by
sundry accidents; when it is newly kindled, it may be put out with
scoffes and reproaches, if _Peter_ take not heede, and fence himselfe
well against them; but if once throughly growne, such breath will but
spred and encrease it.

It is possible fire may bee oppressed with too much wood, and heat
suffocated with too much nourishment: over-much prayer, reading, and
study, may bee a wearinesse both to flesh and spirit: but it so rarely
happeneth, that I neede not mention it; and yet the soule hath its
satiety. There be some such perchance over-nice men in this sense also,
who have not learned that God will have them mercifull to themselves: It
is often smoothered for want of vent and exercise. Let such as use not
and expresse not their zeale, bragge of their good hearts; surely they
have none such, or not like to have them such. If _Nicodemus_ had not
buried Christ by day, we might have feared his zeale had gone out, for
all his comming by night.

Yet this is not so ordinary, as to extinguish it by the quench-coale of
sinne; grosse sinne every man knowes will waste the conscience, and make
shipwracke of zeale: but I say, the least known evill unrepented of, is
as a theefe in the candle, or an obstruction in the liver. I feare,
_David_ served God but reasonably, till hee published his repentance;
hee that steales his meat, though poverty tempt him, yet giveth thankes
but coldly: zeale and sinne, will soone expell the one or the other out
of their subject; Can you imagine in the same roofe, God and Beliall,
the Arke and Dagon? Lastly, and most commonly, forraine heat will
extract the inward, and adventicious heat consume the naturall.

The Sunne will put out the fire; and so will the love of the world, the
love of the Father, they cannot stand together in intense degrees, one
cannot serve both these matters with such affection as both would have.
Seldome seest thou a man make haste to bee rich, and thrive in religion.
Christs message to _John_ holds true; The poore are most forward in
receiving and following the Gospell: as thou lovest thy zeale, beware of
resolving to bee rich, lest gain proove thy godlinesse; take heede of
ambitious aspiring, lest Courts and great places, proove ill aires for
zeale, whither it is as easie to go zealous, as to returne wise:
_Peter_ whiles hee warmed his hands, cooled his heart; Not that
greatnesse and zeale cannot agree; but for that our weaknes many times
severs them. If thou beest willing to die poore in estate, thou mayest
the more easily live rich in grace. _Smyrna_, the poorest of the seven
Candle-stickes, hath the richest price upon it.

The diligent practise of these courses will make easie the practise of
this counsell, _Be zealous, &c_.


_The fift part._

[Sidenote: 1 Object.]

But heere mee thinke I heare the lukewarme worldling of our times, fume
& chafe, and aske what needs all this adoe for zeale, as if all Gods
people were not zealous enough.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Such as thinke they are, or can bee zealous enough, neede no other
conviction to bee poore, blinde, naked, wretched and pittifull
_Laodiceans_: Fire is ever climbing and aspiring higher; zeale is ever
aiming at that which is before; carried towards perfection; thinking
meanely of that which is past, and already attained, condemning his
unprofitable service, as _Calvin_ his last Will: this rule tries full
conceited Christians.

[Sidenote: 2 Object.]

What would you have us doe? wee professe, keepe our Church, heare
Sermons, as Christians ought to doe.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Affectionate friendship and service is not onely for publique shew and
pomp, upon festivall dayes, in Chambers of Presence; but for
domesticall, ordinary, and private use; to such holy-day and Church
retainers, God may well say, Let us have some of this zeale at home and
apart.

All affections are most passionate, without a witnesse. Such as whose
families, closets, fields, beds, walkes, doe testifie of their worship,
as well as temples & Synagogues, are right servitors: God much respects
their devotions; and they have strong proofe of the power of godlinesse.

[Sidenote: 3 Object.]

Wee would you should know, that wee are such as have prayer sayd or read
in our families and housholds; or else we say some to our selves at our
lying downe, and uprising and more then that, say you what you will, wee
holde more then needs.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

First, know that zeale knowes no such unmannerly courses, as to slubber
over a few prayers, whiles you are dressing and undressing your selves,
as most doe, halfe asleepe, halfe awake; know further, that such as hold
onely a certaine stint of daily duties, as malt-horses their pace, or
mill-horses their round, out of custome or forme, are far from that
mettle which is ever putting forward, growing from strength to strength,
and instant in duties, in season, out of season: and this sayes hard to
lazy Christians.

[Sidenote: 4 Object.]

May not wee goe too far on the right hand?

[Sidenote: Answer.]

It is true: but liberality baulkes, and feares covetousnesse and
niggardize, more a great deale then prodigallity; so does zeale
lukewarmnes and coldnesse, more then too much heate and forwardnesse;
the defect is more opposite and dangerous to some vertues, then the
excesse.

[Sidenote: 5 Object.]

Why? are not some thinke you, too straight laced, that dare not use
their Christian liberty in some recreations? sware by small oathes, or
lend money for reasonable use? hath not God left many things
indifferent, wherein some shew themselves more nice then wise?

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Zeale will cut of the right hand, if it cause to offend; much more to
pare the nayles and superfluities: it consumes the strongest, dearest
corruptions; much more will it singe off such haire and drosse as these:
If ought be praise worthy, it imbraceth such things; if any be
doubtfull, carrying shew of evill, of ill reporte, it dares not meddle
with them; it feares that some of these are as indifferent, as
fornication was among the heathen.

[Sidenote: 6 Object.]

There are but few such, no not of the better sort, as you speake of.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Graunt there bee any, and zealous emulation culleth the highest
examples. Such as meane to excell in any Art, travell to find out the
rarest workemen, purchase the choysest Copies; hee that hath true zeale,
will strive to purge himselfe, as Christ is pure.

[Sidenote: 7 Object.]

Will you have us runne before our neighbours, or live without example or
company?

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Cowards and cravens, stand and look who goes first: souldiers of courage
will cast lots for the onset and fore-rank, for desperat services, and
single combats. Lades will not go without the way be led.

[Sidenote: 8 Object.]

So we may soone come to trouble, and danger enough.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

What daunger can there bee, of an honest, peaceable, religious
forwardnesse?

The slug or snaile, puts out the tender horne to feele for lets in the
way, and puls them in where there is no cause; so doe the fearfull that
shall be without: but zeale either findes no dangers, or makes them
none; it neither feares to doe well, or to reproove ill doers, let who
so will be displeased.

Some indeed care not whome they offend, they are so harsh and fiery,
they can beare with nothing.

[Sidenote: 9 Object.]

Will true Christianity allow us to beare with any sinne?

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Can tinne, or hot iron choose but hisse againe, if cold water be cast on
it? can a righteous soul choose but vexe it selfe at open evill? Such
Ostriches as can digest oathes, prophane and filthie speeches, shew what
mettle they have for the Lord of hosts; who yet will be ready enough to
offer the challenge, or stab, for the least disgrace to themselves, or
their mistresse: _Phineas_ had rather, if it were lawfull, fight in Gods
quarrels then his owne.

[Sidenote: 10 Object.]

All are not by nature of so hot dispositions, or so fiery-spirited, as
others.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

If there bee such a dull flegmaticke creature as hath no life nor
spirite in any thing hee goes about, or whome nothing will moove; hee
may plead complexion, and yet grace is above nature: but the best way
is; See every man compare his devotion in matters of God, with his
spirits and mettle in other affayres, wherein his element or delight
lies; if the one equall not the other, the fault is not in nature: the
oldest man hath memory enough for his gold, and the coldest constitution
heate enough where it likes.

[Sidenote: 11 Object.]

Well, our harts may bee as good as the best though we cannot shew it.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Fire cannot be long smothered, it will either finde a vent, or goe out;
zeale will either finde word, or deede, to expresse it selfe withall.

[Sidenote: 12 Object.]

All have not the gift of utterance.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Violent affections have made the dumbe to finde a tongue; If it be lowe
water the mille may stand; but aboundance of heart will set the wheeles
on going What earnest discourses will unlearned Mariners make of their
voiages? Huntsmen of their game, &c.

[Sidenote: 13 Object.]

All have not ability and meanes: many have great charges.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

Love and zeale are munificent, make money their servant, not their
master: wheresoever the heart is enlarged, the hand cannot bee
straightned; where the bowells are open, the purse is not shut. _Herod_
for his pleasure, cares not for halfe his kingdome; what will not some
Gentle-men give for hawks and hounds? not onely the poore woman that
spent the rich oyntment on Christ, the widow that gave all her
substance, the converts that solde all, and threw all at the feet of the
Apostles, but even the bounty of the superstitious Papists shall rise in
judgement against such as professe a religion, wil give it good words &
countenance; but bee at no cost with it, and know a cheaper way to save
charge withall.

[Sidenote: 14 Object.]

All have not so much leisure to spend, so much time and study, about
matters of religion, they have somewhat else to doe.

[Sidenote: Answer.]

There are indeede many vanities, which distract and divide the minde of
worldlings; but zeale counts one thing needefull, to which it makes all
other veile and stand by. Is there any so good an husband of his time,
that will not steale some houre for his pleasure; that cannot spare his
God and his soule halfe an houre, morning and evening; that bestowes not
idly, as much time as a Sermon or two would take upp in the weeke? The
soule I confesse hath his satiety, as well as the body; but why should
we sit on thornes, more at a Sermon then at a Play; thinke the Saboths
longer then holi-daies; but for want of zeale? If thou beest not a vaine
and willing deceiver of thy selfe, and others; deale honestly & plainly
with thy soule, try thy selfe by these few rules; and if thou judgest
thy selfe to come short of them, amend and _be Zealous_.


_The sixt part._

Which little round fire-ball comming to hand, as _Davids_ small stone,
by ordinary lot, knowing the insufficiency of mine owne; I pray that God
with his arme would scatter it farre and wide into those wilde parts of
the world without the pale of Christendome, which lie so frozen and
benummed in their Paganisme, that they feele not the coldnesse of their
religions; as also in those regions that being within the Tropickes of
the Church, have just so much, and so little heat, as to thinke they
have enough, and neede no more: Cheefly mine affections burne within mee
for the good of mine owne Nation, for which I would I had but so much
zeale as truely to wish my selfe _Anathema_, upon condition it had heat
sutable to the light. For I must beare it record, it hath knowledge, I
would I could say, according to zeale. But the spirit, knowing that
which is spoken to all to bee in effect as spoken to none, directs mee
what I should speake to Churches, to speake to particular Angels. Now
the principall in our Church, under that Archangell of the covenant, I
most willingly acknowledge to bee my Lord the King, as an Angell of
light. And why not that very Angell, who by his writing hath begunne to
powre out the fift viall upon the throne of the beast, darkned his
Kingdome, caused them to gnaw their tongues for greefe, and blaspheme
for the smart of their wounds; though as yet they will not repent of
their errours? The Lord annoynt him more and more with this oyle above
all the Princes of the earth, that from his head, it may runne downe
upon our skirts; make him shine in zeale above all other starres, to the
warming & enlightning of this whole Horizon; set him up as a standard
for his people; cloath him with zeale, as with a cloake, to recompence
the fury of the adversaries, that he may strike the Aramites, not three
but five times till they be consumed; that he may put the Ammonites
under the yron sawes, harrowes, axes, which have provoked him as much,
as ever they did _David_, 2. Sam. 12. But yet as in the time of the old
Testament the custody of the fire and light was the charge of the
Priest; so here I observe Christ to lay it upon his Ministers,
interpreting his rule by his practise, _Tell the church, Tell the Angell
of the Church_; honouring that despised office, with that stately stile;
intimating the union betwene People and Minister, that they should bee
as one: what is spoken to the one, is spoken to the other; not as some,
that ever make Clergy and Layty two members, in division and opposition;
neither yet as some spirites that lay all level, but implying a
property, especially in grace and zeale in the Ministers, whom the
Preacher calls the master of the assemblies; that they should exceede as
farre the people, as Angels doe men, and that he will reckon with them
for the religion of the people, because colde Priests make bolde
sinners; zealous _Jehoiada_ may mak _Jehoash_ the King zealous, so long
as hee lives with him. Wee therefore men and brethren, or rather men
and Angels, upon whom it lies to keepe life and heat in the devotion of
the world, to consume the drosse of vices and heresies, that have fallen
into the sinke of our times; wee that are to make ready our people for
the second comming of Christ, is the spirit of _Ely_ thinke wee
sufficient for us? What manner of persons ought we to bee, burning in
spirit, fervent in prayer, thundring in preaching, shining in life and
conversation? Why is it then my brethren (oh let my plainest rebukes bee
the fruits and signes of my best love to mine owne Tribe; let them not
bee as breakings of the head, but as precious balme to those whose
honour with the people, I preferre to my life) why is it that some of us
pray so rarely and so coldly in private (the evills of our times will
not out but by frequent fasting and fervent prayer) in publique so
briefly, so perfunctorily, and feebly, that wee scarce have any
witnesses of what wee say? Why are there yet remaining any Mutes
amongst us? Why are ther any tounges that dare speake against often or
zealous preaching? Doth not _Paul_ adjure us before him that shall judge
the elect Angels, that we preach instantly, in season, and out of
season? Reade wee the commentaries of that text, or let the practise of
Ancients expound it; and tell mee if ever old or new interpreted that
charge, of bare reading, of quarterly, or monethly, yea, or of once on
the Sabbath preaching onely, as if that were fully sufficient, without
endeavoring or desiring any more. If alwaies often preaching bee
prating, what meant the practise I say, not onely of _Calvin_, and
_Beza_ but of _Chrysostome_, _Basil_, _Ambrose_ with other of the
Fathers, preaching every day in the weeke, some of them twise in the
weeke, none of them so seldome, as such would bear the world in hand.
What meant sundry ancient Councells, (the eleventh of _Tolet_ in Spaine)
yea even of Trent it selfe, to excite the torpor of the Bishoppes of
their times, as their Canons speake, enjoyning frequent preaching,
calling for more then almost any man is able to performe?

