"This woodland child is adopted by the chieftain's eldest daughter. His
name is Chaske. He wears the title of the eldest son. In honor of Chaske
the chieftain gives this feast and dance! These are the words of him you
see holding a baby in his arms."

"Yes! Yes! Hinnu! How!" came from the circle. At once the drummers beat
softly and slowly their drum while the chosen singers hummed together to
find the common pitch. The beat of the drum grew louder and faster. The
singers burst forth in a lively tune. Then the drumbeats subsided and
faintly marked the rhythm of the singing. Here and there bounced up men
and women, both young and old. They danced and sang with merry light
hearts. Then came the hour of feasting.

Late into the night the air of the camp ground was alive with the
laughing voices of women and the singing in unison of young men. Within
her father's teepee sat the chieftain's daughter. Proud of her little
one, she watched over him asleep in her lap.

Gradually a deep quiet stole over the camp ground, as one by one the
people fell into pleasant dreams. Now all the village was still. Alone
sat the beautiful young mother watching the babe in her lap, asleep with
a gaping little mouth. Amid the quiet of the night, her ear heard the
far-off hum of many voices. The faint sound of murmuring people was in
the air. Upward she glanced at the smoke hole of the wigwam and saw
a bright star peeping down upon her. "Spirits in the air above?" she
wondered. Yet there was no sign to tell her of their nearness. The fine
small sound of voices grew larger and nearer.

"Father! rise! I hear the coming of some tribe. Hostile or friendly--I
cannot tell. Rise and see!" whispered the young woman.

"Yes, my daughter!" answered the chieftain, springing to his feet.

Though asleep, his ear was ever alert. Thus rushing out into the open,
he listened for strange sounds. With an eagle eye he scanned the camp
ground for some sign.

Returning he said: "My daughter, I hear nothing and see no sign of evil
nigh."

"Oh! the sound of many voices comes up from the earth about me!"
exclaimed the young mother.

Bending low over her babe she gave ear to the ground. Horrified was she
to find the mysterious sound came out of the open mouth of her sleeping
child!

"Why so unlike other babes!" she cried within her heart as she slipped
him gently from her lap to the ground. "Mother, listen and tell me if
this child is an evil spirit come to destroy our camp!" she whispered
loud.

Placing an ear close to the open baby mouth, the chieftain and his wife,
each in turn heard the voices of a great camp. The singing of men and
women, the beating of the drum, the rattling of deer-hoofs strung like
bells on a string, these were the sounds they heard.

"We must go away," said the chieftain, leading them into the night.
Out in the open he whispered to the frightened young woman: "Iya, the
camp-eater, has come in the guise of a babe. Had you gone to sleep, he
would have jumped out into his own shape and would have devoured our
camp. He is a giant with spindling legs. He cannot fight, for he cannot
run. He is powerful only in the night with his tricks. We are safe as
soon as day breaks." Then moving closer to the woman, he whispered: "If
he wakes now, he will swallow the whole tribe with one hideous gulp!
Come, we must flee with our people."

Thus creeping from teepee to teepee a secret alarm signal was given. At
midnight the teepees were gone and there was left no sign of the village
save heaps of dead ashes. So quietly had the people folded their wigwams
and bundled their tent poles that they slipped away unheard by the
sleeping Iya babe.

When the morning sun arose, the babe awoke. Seeing himself deserted, he
threw off his baby form in a hot rage.

Wearing his own ugly shape, his huge body toppled to and fro, from side
to side, on a pair of thin legs far too small for their burden. Though
with every move he came dangerously nigh to falling, he followed in the
trail of the fleeing people.

"I shall eat you in the sight of a noon-day sun!" cried Iya in his vain
rage, when he spied them encamped beyond a river.

By some unknown cunning he swam the river and sought his way toward the
teepees.

"Hin! hin!" he grunted and growled. With perspiration beading his brow
he strove to wiggle his slender legs beneath his giant form.

"Ha! ha!" laughed all the village people to see Iya made foolish with
anger. "Such spindle legs cannot stand to fight by daylight!" shouted
the brave ones who were terror-struck the night before by the name
"Iya."

Warriors with long knives rushed forth and slew the camp-eater.

Lo! there rose out of the giant a whole Indian tribe: their camp ground,
their teepees in a large circle, and the people laughing and dancing.

"We are glad to be free!" said these strange people.

Thus Iya was killed; and no more are the camp grounds in danger of being
swallowed up in a single night time.


MANSTIN, THE RABBIT


MANSTIN was an adventurous brave, but very kind-hearted. Stamping
a moccasined foot as he drew on his buckskin leggins, he said:
"Grandmother, beware of Iktomi! Do not let him lure you into some
cunning trap. I am going to the North country on a long hunt."

With these words of caution to the bent old rabbit grandmother with whom
he had lived since he was a tiny babe, Manstin started off toward
the north. He was scarce over the great high hills when he heard the
shrieking of a human child.

"Wan!" he ejaculated, pointing his long ears toward the direction of the
sound; "Wan! that is the work of cruel Double-Face. Shameless coward! he
delights in torturing helpless creatures!"

Muttering indistinct words, Manstin ran up the last hill and lo! in the
ravine beyond stood the terrible monster with a face in front and one in
the back of his head!

This brown giant was without clothes save for a wild-cat-skin about his
loins. With a wicked gleaming eye, he watched the little black-haired
baby he held in his strong arm. In a laughing voice he hummed an Indian
mother's lullaby, "A-boo! Aboo!" and at the same time he switched the
naked baby with a thorny wild-rose bush.

Quickly Manstin jumped behind a large sage bush on the brow of the hill.
He bent his bow and the sinewy string twanged. Now an arrow stuck above
the ear of Double-Face. It was a poisoned arrow, and the giant fell
dead. Then Manstin took the little brown baby and hurried away from the
ravine. Soon he came to a teepee from whence loud wailing voices
broke. It was the teepee of the stolen baby and the mourners were its
heart-broken parents.

When gallant Manstin returned the child to the eager arms of the mother
there came a sudden terror into the eyes of both the Dakotas. They
feared lest it was Double-Face come in a new guise to torture them.
The rabbit understood their fear and said: "I am Manstin, the
kind-hearted,--Manstin, the noted huntsman. I am your friend. Do not
fear."

That night a strange thing happened. While the father and mother slept,
Manstin took the wee baby. With his feet placed gently yet firmly upon
the tiny toes of the little child, he drew upward by each small hand the
sleeping child till he was a full-grown man. With a forefinger he traced
a slit in the upper lip; and when on the morrow the man and woman awoke
they could not distinguish their own son from Manstin, so much alike
were the braves.

"Henceforth we are friends, to help each other," said Manstin, shaking a
right hand in farewell. "The earth is our common ear, to carry from its
uttermost extremes one's slightest wish for the other!"

"Ho! Be it so!" answered the newly made man.

Upon leaving his friend, Manstin hurried away toward the North country
whither he was bound for a long hunt. Suddenly he came upon the edge of
a wide brook. His alert eye caught sight of a rawhide rope staked to the
water's brink, which led away toward a small round hut in the distance.
The ground was trodden into a deep groove beneath the loosely drawn
rawhide rope.

"Hun-he!" exclaimed Manstin, bending over the freshly made footprints in
the moist bank of the brook. "A man's footprints!" he said to himself.
"A blind man lives in yonder hut! This rope is his guide by which he
comes for his daily water!" surmised Manstin, who knew all the peculiar
contrivances of the people. At once his eyes became fixed upon the
solitary dwelling and hither he followed his curiosity,--a real blind
man's rope.

Quietly he lifted the door-flap and entered in. An old toothless
grandfather, blind and shaky with age, sat upon the ground. He was
not deaf however. He heard the entrance and felt the presence of some
stranger.

"How, grandchild," he mumbled, for he was old enough to be grandparent
to every living thing, "how! I cannot see you. Pray, speak your name!"

"Grandfather, I am Manstin," answered the rabbit, all the while looking
with curious eyes about the wigwam.

"Grandfather, what is it so tightly packed in all these buckskin bags
placed against the tent poles?" he asked.

"My grandchild, those are dried buffalo meat and venison. These are
magic bags which never grow empty. I am blind and cannot go on a hunt.
Hence a kind Maker has given me these magic bags of choicest foods."

Then the old, bent man pulled at a rope which lay by his right hand.
"This leads me to the brook where I drink! and this," said he, turning
to the one on his left, "and this takes me into the forest, where I feel
about for dry sticks for my fire."

"Grandfather, I wish I lived in such sure luxury! I would lean back
against a tent pole, and with crossed feet I would smoke sweet willow
bark the rest of my days," sighed Manstin.

"My grandchild, your eyes are your luxury! you would be unhappy without
them!" the old man replied.

"Grandfather, I would give you my two eyes for your place!" cried
Manstin.

"How! you have said it. Arise. Take out your eyes and give them to me.
Henceforth you are at home here in my stead."

At once Manstin took out both his eyes and the old man put them on!
Rejoicing, the old grandfather started away with his young eyes while
the blind rabbit filled his dream pipe, leaning lazily against the tent
pole. For a short time it was a most pleasant pastime to smoke willow
bark and to eat from the magic bags.

Manstin grew thirsty, but there was no water in the small dwelling.
Taking one of the rawhide ropes he started toward the brook to quench
his thirst. He was young and unwilling to trudge slowly in the old man's
footpath. He was full of glee, for it had been many long moons since he
had tasted such good food. Thus he skipped confidently along jerking the
old weather-eaten rawhide spasmodically till all of a sudden it gave way
and Manstin fell headlong into the water.

"En! En!" he grunted kicking frantically amid stream. All along the
slippery bank he vainly tried to climb, till at last he chanced upon the
old stake and the deeply worn footpath. Exhausted and inwardly disgusted
with his mishaps, he crawled more cautiously on all fours to his wigwam
door. Dripping with his recent plunge he sat with chattering teeth
within his unfired wigwam.

The sun had set and the night air was chilly, but there was no fire-wood
in the dwelling. "Hin!" murmured Manstin and bravely tried the other
rope. "I go for some fire-wood!" he said, following the rawhide rope
which led into the forest. Soon he stumbled upon thickly strewn dry
willow sticks. Eagerly with both hands he gathered the wood into his
outspread blanket. Manstin was naturally an energetic fellow.

