Transcribed from the 1849 (tenth) Francis & John Rivington edition by
David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org


THE ROCKY ISLAND,
AND
OTHER SIMILITUDES.


BY SAMUEL WILBERFORCE, D.D.
LORD BISHOP OF OXFORD.

"Fed my lambs."--S. JOHN xxi. 15.

TENTH EDITION

LONDON:
FRANCIS & JOHN RIVINGTON,
ST. PAUL'S CHURCH YARD, AND WATERLOO PLACE.
1849.

{The Rocky Island: p0.jpg}


PREFACE.


The advertisement to a work of similar character to the present expresses
the author's principle and wishes as to this little volume.  It is
constructed on the same plan, and, like the former, has had the test of
the observations of his own children before it was given to the public.
The reception of "Agathos" has shewn that many parents have felt the want
which these little volumes are intended to supply, and leads the author
to hope that he has in some measure been able to meet it.

It is a peculiar gratification to him to be able thus to enter many a
Christian household, and fulfil, in some measure, his Master's charge,
"Feed my lambs."

May it please God to give His blessing to this new attempt.

S. W

_Winchester_, _Sept._ 29, 1840.


The Rocky Island.


I saw in my dream a rough rocky island rising straight out of the midst
of a roaring sea.  In the midst of the island rose a black steep
mountain; dark clouds rested gloomily upon its top; and into the midst of
the clouds it cast forth ever and anon red flames, which lit them up like
the thick curling smoke at the top of a furnace-chimney.  Peals of loud
thunder sounded constantly from these thick clouds; and now and then
angry lightning shot its forked tongue, white, and red, and blue, from
the midst of them, and fell upon the rocks, or the few trees which just
clung to their sides, splitting them violently down, and scattering the
broken and shivered pieces on all sides.  It was a sad, dreary-looking
island at the first view, and I thought that no one could dwell in it;
but as I looked closer at its shores, I saw that they were covered with
children at play.  A soft white sand formed its beach, and there these
children played.  I saw no grown people among them; but the children were
all busy--some picking up shells; some playing with the bright-coloured
berries of a prickly dwarf-plant which grew upon those sands; some
watching the waves as they ran up and then fell back again on that shore;
some running after the sea-birds, which ran with quick light feet along
the wet sand, and ever flew off, skimming just along the wave-top, and
uttering a quick sharp note as the children came close upon them:--so
some sported in one way, and some in another, but all were busily at
play.  Now I wondered in my dream to see these children thus busy whilst
the burning mountain lay close behind them, and the thunder made the air
ring.

Sometimes, indeed, when it shone out redder and fiercer than usual, or
when the thunder seemed close over their heads, the children would be
startled for a little while, and run together, and cry, and scream; but
very soon it was all forgotten, and they were as full of their sports as
ever.

While I was musing upon this, I saw a man appear suddenly amongst the
children.  He was of a noble and kingly countenance, and yet so gentle
withal that there was not a child of them all who seemed afraid to look
in his face, or to listen to his kind voice when he opened his mouth, for
soon I found that he was speaking to them.  "My dear children," I heard
him say, "you will all be certainly killed, if you stay upon this rocky
island.  Here no one ever grows up happily.  Here all play turns into
death--the burning mountain, and the forked lightning, and the dreadful
breath of the hill-storm,--these sweep down over all that stay here, and
slay them all; and if you stay here, for these childish pleasures of
yours, you will all perish."

Then the children grew very grave, and they gazed one upon another, and
all looked up into the face of the man, to see if he spoke in earnest.
They saw directly that he did, for that kind face looked full of care as
well as of love: so from him they looked out upon the waves of the sea,
and one whispered to another, "Where shall we go? how shall we ever get
over that sea? we can never swim across it: had we not better go back,
and play and be happy, until the time comes for us to die?"

"No," said the man, looking round kindly upon them all; "you cannot swim
over; you never could get over of yourselves: but you need not stay here
and die; for I have found a way of escape for you.  Follow me, and you
shall see it."

So I saw that he led them round a high rough rock, to where the calm
waves of the sea ran up into a little bay, upon the white sand of which
only a gentle ripple broke with a very pleasant sound.  This bay was full
of boats, small painted boats, with just room in each for one person,
with a small rudder to guide them at the stern, and a little sail as
white as snow, and over all a flag, on which a bright red cross was
flapping in the gentle sea-breeze.

Then when the children saw these beautiful boats, they clapped their
little hands together for very joy of heart.  But the man spoke to them
again and said, "You will all have a deep, and dangerous, and stormy sea
to pass over in these little boats.  They will carry you quite safely, if
you are careful to do just as I bid you, for then neither are wind nor
the sea can harm them; but they will bear you safely over the foaming
waves to a bright and beautiful land--to a country where there is no
burning mountain, and no angry lightning, and no bare rocks, and no
blasting hill-storm; but where there are trees bearing golden fruits by
the side of beautiful rivers, into which they sweep their green boughs.
There the trees are always green, and the leaves ever fresh.  There the
fruit ripens every month, {6} and the very leaves upon the trees are
healing.  There is always glad and joyful light.  There are happy
children who have passed this sea; and there are others who have grown
old full of happiness; there are some of your fathers, and mothers, and
brothers, and sisters; and there am I ever present to keep and to comfort
you."  Now when they heard this, all the children wished to jump into the
boats, and he was kindly ready to help them, only he put each one in
carefully and slowly; and as he put him in, he gave him his charge.  He
told them that they must never look round to this island they were
leaving, but must be always setting their faces towards the happy land
they sought for.  He told them that they must leave behind them all the
shells and the berries which had pleased them here, for if they tried to
take these with them in their boats, some accident would certainly befall
them.  Then some of the children, when they heard all this, drew secretly
away, and ran round the point, and gave up the boats and the sea, and
began their old idle play again.  And some of them, I thought, hid the
shells and the berries they had got, and then jumped into the boat,
pretending they had left all behind them.

Then I saw that the man gave different presents to each of them, as they
seated themselves in the boat.  One was a little compass in a wooden box.
"This," he said, "will always shew you which way to steer; you are to
follow me, for I shall always be before you on the waters; but often when
the darkness of the night comes on, or the thick mist seethes up from the
wave's brim, or the calm has fallen upon you so that your boat has stood
still,--often at such times as these you may not be able even to mark my
track before you: then you must look at the compass, and its finger will
always point true and straight to where I am; and if you will follow me
there, you will be safe."  He gave them, too, a musical instrument, which
made a soft murmuring sound when they breathed earnestly into it; "and
this," he said, "you must use when you are becalmed and so cannot get on,
or when the waves swell into a storm around you and threaten to swallow
you up."  He gave them, too, bread and water for many days.

So I saw that they all set out upon their voyage, and a beautiful sight
it was to look upon.  Their snow-white sails upon the deep sea shone like
stars upon the blue of the firmament; and now they all followed close
upon the leader's ship, and their little boats danced lightly and
joyfully over the trackless waves, which lifted up their breasts to waft
them over: and so they started.  But I looked again in a little while,
and they were beginning to be scattered very widely asunder: here and
there three or four of the boats kept well together, and followed
steadily in the track of the leader's vessel; then there was a long space
of the sea with no boat upon it at all; then came a straggler or two, and
then another company; and then, far off on the right and on the left,
were other boats, which seemed to be wandering quite away from the
leader's path.

Now, as I watched them closer, I saw that there were many different
things which drew them away: one I saw, soon after they started, who
turned back to look at the rocky island, forgetting the man's command.  He
saw the other children playing on the beach; he heard their merry voices;
and then looking round again towards the sea, it looked rough and dark
before him; and he forgot the burning mountain, and the terrible thunder,
and the bright happy land for which he was bound, and the goodly company
he was in, and the kind face of the kingly man; and he was like one in a
dream, before whose eyes all sorts of shapes and colours fly, and in
whose ears all sounds are ringing; and he thought no more of the helm,
nor watched the sails; and so the driving swell carried his boat idly
along with its long roll; and in a few minutes more I saw it at the top
of a white foaming breaker, and then he and it were dashed down upon the
rocks which girdled the sandy beach, and he was seen again no more.

Then I turned my eyes to two other boats, which were going fast away from
the true course, for no reason which I could see; but when I looked at
them more closely, I saw that they were in a sort of angry race; each
wished to get to the wind-side of the other; and they were so busy
thinking about this, and looking at one another with angry glances, and
calling out to one another with angry words, that they forgot to look for
the leader's ship, or to watch the finger of the compass; and so they
were going altogether wide of the track along which they should have
passed.

Then I looked closely at another, which was shooting quite away in
another direction; and I saw that the poor child had left the rudder, and
was playing with something in the bottom of the boat; and as I looked
nearer in it, I saw that it was with some of the bright berries of the
rocky island which he had brought with him that he was so foolishly busy.

Foolish, indeed, he was; and kind had been the warning of the man who
bade them leave all these behind: for whilst I was watching him, and
wondering what would be the end of such a careless voyage, I saw his
little boat strike suddenly upon a hidden rock, which broke a hole in its
wooden sides, and the water rushed in, and the boat began to sink, and
there was no help near, and the poor boy was soon drowned in the midst of
the waves.

Then I turned sadly away to watch the boats which were following their
leader; and here, too, I saw strange things; for though the sea when
looked at from afar seemed just alike to all, yet when I watched any one,
I saw that he had some difficulties, and some frights, and some helps of
his own, which I did not see the others have.