Meantime matters had progressed to some extent with Norway. On the 22d
of July, the passport issued for the refugees having nearly expired
without intimation that it would be used, Gustavus wrote to Fredrik:
"Sunnanväder and the other fugitives are still maintained with honor in
Norway, and are continually plotting new revolt. They receive especial
favor from the archbishop of Trondhem, who is said to have appointed one
of them his deacon. We have written frequently about them to the Cabinet
of Norway, but the more we write the more honor they receive." This
charge was proved by subsequent events to be a trifle hasty. Scarce had
the letter been despatched when Knut, who was probably the least guilty
of the two conspirators, arrived. He came by order of the archbishop of
Trondhem, and along with him came a letter from the archbishop,
declaring that, as the king had promised the fugitives they should be
tried by prelates of the Church, one of them was surrendered.
Sunnanväder would likewise have been handed over but that he was ill.
The archbishop closed by urging Gustavus to show mercy. It is to be
noted that the king had never promised that the tribunal should consist
of prelates. What he had said was that they should be tried before a
"proper tribunal." Doubtless it was customary that priests should not be
tried by laymen, but the practice was not invariably followed, and the
language of the passport was enough to throw the conspirators on their
guard. In a case of conspiracy against the crown, the Swedish Cabinet
would seem to be a proper tribunal, and as a matter of fact it was
before the Cabinet that this case was tried. The Cabinet consisted of
the archbishop of Upsala, three bishops, and eight laymen. Their decree
was, in the first place, that the passport did not protect Knut from
trial, and secondly, that he was guilty of conspiracy against the crown.
The decree was dated August 9. On that very day the king of Denmark
wrote Gustavus that he had ordered the archbishop of Trondhem to give no
shelter to the traitors, and added: "We are told that you are ready to
promise them a trial before yourself and the Swedish Cabinet, after
which they shall be permitted to go free." Gustavus had never promised
that they should go free, and it was preposterous for anybody to expect
it. The only object of the trial was to give the traitors an opportunity
to prove their innocence, and if they failed to do so, it was only fair
that they should suffer. As soon as the decree was signed, Gustavus
wrote the archbishop of Trondhem that Knut had been found guilty, but
that his life should be spared to satisfy the archbishop, at any rate
until Gustavus could learn what the archbishop proposed to do with the
other refugees. A similar letter was sent also by the Cabinet, declaring
that "many serious charges were made against Knut, which he was in no
way able to disprove." One of the Cabinet members, who had been asked by
the archbishop to intercede for Knut, wrote back: "His crime is so
enormous and so clearly proved by his own handwriting, that there is no
hope for him unless by the grace of God or through your intercession."
Even Brask wrote: "He has won the king's ill-favor in many ways, for
which he can offer no defence." Against such a pressure of public
opinion the archbishop of Trondhem dared no longer stand, and on the 22d
of September despatched Sunnanväder to the king, adding, with the
mendacity of a child, that he had detained him in Norway only in order
that he might not flee. Gustavus, with grim humor, thanked him for his
solicitude, and begged him now to return all other refugees. Sunnanväder
was kept in jail till the 18th of February, 1527. He was then brought
before a tribunal consisting of the entire Chapter of Upsala, two
bishops, and a number of laymen. The king produced some sixty letters
written by the traitor, establishing his conspiracy beyond the shadow of
a doubt. He was condemned at once, and executed the same day outside the
Upsala walls. Three days later, his accomplice, Knut, was similarly put
to death in Stockholm. Thus ended a conspiracy which had cost the
monarch infinite annoyance, and which during a period of three years had
been a constant menace to the realm.[126]

What most annoyed the king at this time was the importunate demands of
Lubeck. Ever since Gotland, in the summer of 1525, had fallen into the
hands of Lubeck, Gustavus had appreciated the necessity of keeping the
Hanseatic town in check. So early as August of that year the monarch
wrote Laurentius Andreæ: "You have advised us to cling to Lubeck and
place no confidence in the Danes, since they have always played us
false. We are not sure, however, that even Lubeck can be trusted, for we
have no certainty what she has in mind, especially as she is sheltering
in Gotland that outspoken traitor, Mehlen." The Swedish envoys, who had
arrived in Lubeck too late to meet the Danes, as had been agreed in
Malmö, seem to have reached no terms with Lubeck, and, when they
returned to Sweden in September, Gotland was in Lubeck's hands, and
Lubeck had announced her purpose of defending Mehlen. Her strongest hold
on Sweden lay in the fact that Sweden was still her debtor in a very
large amount. Early in 1526 this burden had become so great that the
Cabinet passed an act decreeing that two thirds of all the tithes
accrued for the year just ended should be surrendered by the Church to
meet the nation's debt. The announcement of this levy made Lubeck for
the moment more importunate than before. Believing that the money would
soon be pouring in, she kept her envoys constantly dogging the monarch's
steps, and in the month of April Gustavus wrote: "Our creditors will
scarce permit us to leave the castle-gate." They were, therefore, as
greatly disappointed as Gustavus when the money did not come. In June
Gustavus wrote that he had got together ten thousand marks,--a mere
nothing,--and that Lubeck had written to demand immediate payment of the
whole. "Her envoys have now closed our doors so tight that it is hardly
possible for us to go out." It was clear that some new scheme must be
devised, and on the 23d of June the king applied to certain members of
his Cabinet. "We have now," he wrote, "as frequently before, had letters
from Lubeck demanding in curt language the payment of her debt. You are
aware that we have often, especially in Cabinet meetings, asked you to
suggest some mode of meeting this requirement, and have never yet been
able to elicit any tangible response. Indeed, you have not had the
matter much at heart, but have rather left it to be arranged by us. You
have, it is true, suggested that the tithes be used, but we find that,
though we much relied upon them, they are but a tittle. Our entire taxes
for last year, including iron, skins, butter, salmon, amounted to
somewhat over ten thousand marks. This sum, which would naturally be
used to pay the expenses of our court, has been handed over to pay the
debt. The tithes received, which we were assured would be a considerable
sum, are shown by our books not to have exceeded two thousand marks in
all. The treasury balance has now run so low that we have but a trifle
left, and our soldiers, who are now much needed to keep off Christiern
and Norby, must be paid. We therefore beg you take this matter seriously
to heart, and devise some means by which the debt may soon be paid....
It is utterly impossible from the taxes alone to keep an army and pay
this heavy debt, for the taxes are no greater than they were some years
ago, though the expenses are very much increased; and, moreover, we have
no mines to turn to, as our fathers had." This urgent appeal inspired
the Cabinet to act, and at a meeting held in August they provided that a
new tax be laid on every subject in the realm. In the table that
accompanied this Act, the amounts to be contributed by the different
provinces were accurately fixed, as well as the amounts to be collected
in the towns. The bishops, too, were called upon to furnish each his
quota, based upon an estimate of his means: the archbishop of Upsala
paying four thousand marks, the bishop of Åbo three thousand marks,
Linköping two thousand five hundred marks, Skara and Strengnäs each two
thousand marks, Vesterås one thousand marks, and Vexiö five hundred
marks. The amount imposed on Åbo seems unreasonably large, which is
probably to be accounted for by the fact that Åbo was not present at the
meeting. Brask, in writing to Åbo, told the bishop that his quota was
three thousand marks, but did not name to him the individual amounts to
be contributed by the other bishops. Gustavus, in a letter to the
members of his Cabinet in Finland, was even more unfair. He told them
that Åbo was to pay three thousand marks, and added that Linköping and
Skara were to pay the same. Brask's letter is particularly important in
that it puts the balance of the debt to Lubeck at forty-five thousand
Lubeck marks, equivalent to ninety thousand Swedish marks, of which
amount the archbishop and bishops were expected to raise fifteen
thousand marks. Brask, with his usual shrewdness, urged the king to pay
the debt that autumn, and thus get rid of Lubeck before the winter came.
Gustavus doubtless shared with him this view, but there were several
grave difficulties in the way. Early in October the monarch held a
conference with the Lubeck envoys, and found the balance, as they
figured it, to be larger than he had supposed. Moreover, the peasants in
the north of Sweden declared they could not spare the funds, and urged
Gustavus to postpone the levy till a more convenient time. So that at
the close of 1526 the Lubeck envoys were still clamoring for their
pay.[127]

