You come into the crowded theatre and consider that each occupant of
an orchestra chair is contributing three or four cents to the upkeep
of a fellow who did nothing but dash off the stuff that keeps the
numbers apart, and your blood boils. A glow of honest resentment fills
you at the thought of anyone having such an absolute snap. You little
know what the poor bird has suffered, and how inadequate a reward are
his few yens per week for what he has been through. Musical comedy is
not dashed off. It grows--slowly and painfully, and each step in its
growth either bleaches another tuft of the author's hair or removes it
from the parent skull altogether.

The average musical comedy comes into being because somebody--not the
public, but a manager--wants one. We will say that Mr. and Mrs.
Whoosis, the eminent ballroom dancers, have decided that they require
a different sphere for the exhibition of their talents. They do not
demand a drama. They commission somebody to write them a musical
comedy. Some poor, misguided creature is wheedled into signing a
contract: and, from that moment, his troubles begin.

An inspiration gives him a pleasing and ingenious plot. Full of
optimism, he starts to write it. By the time he has finished an
excellent first act, he is informed that Mr. and Mrs. Whoosis propose
to sing three solos and two duets in the first act and five in the
second, and will he kindly build his script accordingly? This baffles
the author a little. He is aware that both artistes, though extremely
gifted northward as far as the ankle-bone, go all to pieces above that
level, with the result that by the time you reach the zone where the
brains and voice are located, there is nothing stirring whatever. And
he had allowed for this in his original conception of the play, by
making Mrs. Whoosis a deaf-mute and Mr. Whoosis a Trappist monk under
the perpetual vow of silence. The unfolding of the plot he had left to
the other characters, with a few ingenious gaps where the two stars
could come on and dance.

He takes a stiff bracer, ties a vinegar-soaked handkerchief round his
forehead, and sets to work to remodel his piece. He is a trifle
discouraged, but he perseveres. With almost superhuman toil he
contrives the only possible story which will fit the necessities of
the case. He has wrapped up the script and is about to stroll round
the corner to mail it, when he learns from the manager who is acting
as intermediary between the parties concerned in the production that
there is a slight hitch. Instead of having fifty thousand dollars
deposited in the bank to back the play, it seems that the artistes
merely said in their conversation that it would be awfully jolly if
they _did_ have that sum, or words to that effect.

By this time our author has got the thing into his system: or, rather,
he has worked so hard that he feels he cannot abandon the venture now.
He hunts for another manager who wants something musical, and at
length finds one. The only proviso is that this manager does not need
a piece built around two stars, but one suited to the needs of Jasper
Cutup, the well-known comedian, whom he has under contract. The
personality of Jasper is familiar to the author, so he works for a
month or two and remoulds the play to fit him. With the script under
his arm he staggers to the manager's office. The manager reads the
script--smiles--chuckles--thoroughly enjoys it. Then a cloud passes
athwart his brow. "There's only one thing the matter with this piece,"
he says. "You seem to have written it to star a comedian." "But you
said you wanted it for Jasper Cutup," gasps the author, supporting
himself against the water-cooler. "Well, yes, that is so," replies the
manager. "I remember I did want a piece for him then, but he's gone
and signed up with K. and Lee. What I wish you would do is to take
this script and twist it to be a vehicle for Pansy Glucose."

"Pansy Glucose?" moans the author. "The ingenue?" "Yes," says the
manager. "It won't take long. Just turn your Milwaukee pickle
manufacturer into a debutante, and the thing is done. Get to work as
soon as you can. I want this rushed."

All this is but a portion of the musical comedy author's troubles. We
will assume that he eventually finds a manager who really does put the
piece into rehearsal. We will even assume that he encounters none of
the trials to which I have alluded. We will even go further and assume
that he is commissioned to write a musical comedy without any definite
stellar personality in mind, and that when he has finished it the
manager will do his share by providing a suitable cast. Is he in soft?
No, dear reader, he is not in soft. You have forgotten the "Gurls."
Critics are inclined to reproach, deride, blame and generally hammer
the author of a musical comedy because his plot is not so consecutive
and unbroken as the plot of a farce or a comedy. They do not realize
the conditions under which he is working. If is one of the immutable
laws governing musical plays that at certain intervals during the
evening the audience demand to see the chorus. They may not be aware
that they so demand, but it is nevertheless a fact that, unless the
chorus come on at these fixed intervals, the audience's interest sags.
The raciest farce-scenes cannot hold them, nor the most tender love
passages. They want the gurls, the whole gurls, and nothing but the
gurls.

Thus it comes about that the author, having at last finished his first
act, is roused from his dream of content by a horrid fear. He turns to
the script, and discovers that his panic was well grounded. He has
carelessly allowed fully twenty pages to pass without once bringing on
the chorus.

This is where he begins to clutch his forehead and to grow gray at the
temples. He cannot possibly shift musical number four, which is a
chorus number, into the spot now occupied by musical number three,
which is a duet, because three is a "situation" number, rooted to its
place by the exigencies of the story. The only thing to do is to pull
the act to pieces and start afresh. And when you consider that this
sort of thing happens not once but a dozen times between the start of
a musical comedy book and its completion, can you wonder that this
branch of writing is included among the dangerous trades and that
librettists always end by picking at the coverlet?

Then there is the question of cast. The author builds his hero in such
a manner that he requires an actor who can sing, dance, be funny, and
carry a love interest. When the time comes to cast the piece, he finds
that the only possible man in sight wants fifteen hundred a week and,
anyway, is signed up for the next five years with the rival syndicate.
He is then faced with the alternative of revising his play to suit
either: a) Jones, who can sing and dance, but is not funny; b) Smith,
who is funny, but cannot sing and dance; c) Brown, who is funny and
can sing and dance, but who cannot carry a love-interest and, through
working in revue, has developed a habit of wandering down to the
footlights and chatting with the audience. Whichever actor is given
the job, it means more rewriting.

