Produced by David Widger


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                           SEPTEMBER & OCTOBER
                                  1668

September 1st.  Up and all the morning at the office busy, and after
dinner to the office again busy till about four, and then I abroad (my
wife being gone to Hales's about drawing her hand new in her picture) and
I to see Betty Michell, which I did, but su mari was dentro, and no
pleasure.  So to the Fair, and there saw several sights; among others, the
mare that tells money,

     [This is not the first learned horse of which we read.  Shakespeare,
     "Love's Labour's Lost," act i., SC. 2, mentions "the dancing
     horse,"' and the commentators have added many particulars of Banks's
     bay horse.]

and many things to admiration; and, among others, come to me, when she was
bid to go to him of the company that most loved a pretty wench in a
corner.  And this did cost me 12d. to the horse, which I had flung him
before, and did give me occasion to baiser a mighty belle fille that was
in the house that was exceeding plain, but fort belle.  At night going
home I went to my bookseller's in Duck Lane, and find her weeping in the
shop, so as ego could not have any discourse con her nor ask the reason,
so departed and took coach home, and taking coach was set on by a wench
that was naught, and would have gone along with me to her lodging in Shoe
Lane, but ego did donner her a shilling   .  .  .  and left her, and home,
where after supper, W. Batelier with us, we to bed.  This day Mrs. Martin
come to see us, and dined with us.

2nd.  Fast-day for the burning of London, strictly observed.  I at home at
the office all day, forenoon and afternoon, about the Victualler's
contract and other things, and at night home to supper, having had but a
cold dinner, Mr. Gibson with me; and this evening comes Mr. Hill to
discourse with me about Yeabsly and Lanyon's business, wherein they are
troubled, and I fear they have played the knave too far for me to help or
think fit to appear for them.  So he gone, and after supper, to bed, being
troubled with a summons, though a kind one, from Mr. Jessop, to attend the
Commissioners of Accounts tomorrow.

3rd.  Up, and to the Office, where busy till it was time to go to the
Commissioners of Accounts, which I did about noon, and there was received
with all possible respect, their business being only to explain the
meaning of one of their late demands to us, which we had not answered in
our answer to them, and, this being done, I away with great content, my
mind being troubled before, and so to the Exchequer and several places,
calling on several businesses, and particularly my bookseller's, among
others, for "Hobbs's Leviathan,"

     ["Leviathan: or the matter, forme and power of a Commonwealth
     ecclesiasticall and civill," by Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, first
     published in 1651.  It was reprinted in 1680, with its old date.
     Hobbes's complete works, English and Latin, were published by Sir
     William Molesworth in sixteen volumes 8vo. between 1839 and 1845.]

which is now mightily called for; and what was heretofore sold for 8s.  I
now give 24s. for, at the second hand, and is sold for 30s., it being a
book the Bishops will not let be printed again, and so home to dinner, and
then to the office all the afternoon, and towards evening by water to the
Commissioners of the Treasury, and presently back again, and there met a
little with W. Pen and the rest about our Prize accounts, and so W. Pen
and Lord Brouncker and I at the lodging of the latter to read over our new
draft of the victualler's contract, and so broke up and home to supper and
to bed.

4th.  Up, and met at the Office all the morning; and at noon my wife, and
Deb., and Mercer, and W. Hewer and I to the Fair, and there, at the old
house, did eat a pig, and was pretty merry, but saw no sights, my wife
having a mind to see the play "Bartholomew-Fayre," with puppets.  Which we
did, and it is an excellent play; the more I see it, the more I love the
wit of it; only the business of abusing the Puritans begins to grow stale,
and of no use, they being the people that, at last, will be found the
wisest.  And here Knepp come to us, and sat with us, and thence took coach
in two coaches, and losing one another, my wife, and Knepp, and I to
Hercules Pillars, and there supped, and I did take from her mouth the
words and notes of her song of "the Larke," which pleases me mightily. And
so set her at home, and away we home, where our company come home before
us.  This night Knepp tells us that there is a Spanish woman lately come
over, that pretends to sing as well as Mrs. Knight; both of which I must
endeavour to hear.  So, after supper, to bed.

5th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and
to the office to work all the afternoon again till the evening, and then
by coach to Mr. Hales's new house, where, I find, he hath finished my
wife's hand, which is better than the other; and here I find Harris's
picture, done in his habit of "Henry the Fifth;" mighty like a player, but
I do not think the picture near so good as any yet he hath made for me:
however, it is pretty well, and thence through the fair home, but saw
nothing, it being late, and so home to my business at the office, and
thence to supper and to bed.

6th (Lord's day).  Up betimes, and got myself ready to go by water, and
about nine o'clock took boat with Henry Russell to Gravesend, coming
thither about one, where, at the Ship, I dined; and thither come to me Mr.
Hosier, whom I went to speak with, about several businesses of work that
he is doing, and I would have him do, of writing work, for me. And I did
go with him to his lodging, and there did see his wife, a pretty tolerable
woman, and do find him upon an extraordinary good work of designing a
method of keeping our Storekeeper's Accounts, in the Navy. Here I should
have met with Mr. Wilson, but he is sick, and could not come from Chatham
to me.  So, having done with Hosier, I took boat again the beginning of
the flood, and come home by nine at night, with much pleasure, it being a
fine day.  Going down I spent reading of the "Five Sermons of Five Several
Styles," worth comparing one with another: but I do think, when all is
done, that, contrary to the design of the book, the Presbyterian style and
the Independent are the best of the five sermons to be preached in; this I
do, by the best of my present judgment think, and coming back I spent
reading of a book of warrants of our office in the first Dutch war, and do
find that my letters and warrants and method will be found another
gate's business than this that the world so much adores, and I am glad for
my own sake to find it so.  My boy was with me, and read to me all day,
and we sang a while together, and so home to supper a little, and so to
bed.

7th.  At the office all the morning, we met, and at noon dined at home,
and after dinner carried my wife and Deb. to Unthanke's, and I to White
Hall with Mr. Gibson, where the rest of our officers met us, and to the
Commissioners of the Treasury about the Victualling contract, but staid
not long, but thence, sending Gibson to my wife, I with Lord Brouncker
(who was this day in an unusual manner merry, I believe with drink), J.
Minnes, and W. Pen to Bartholomew-Fair; and there saw the dancing mare
again, which, to-day, I find to act much worse than the other day, she
forgetting many things, which her master beat her for, and was mightily
vexed; and then the dancing of the ropes, and also the little stage-play,
which is very ridiculous, and so home to the office with Lord Brouncker,
W. Pen, and myself (J. Minnes being gone home before not well), and so,
after a little talk together, I home to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and to St. James's, there to talk a
little with Mr. Wren about the private business we are upon, in the
Office, where he tells me he finds that they all suspect me to be the
author of the great letter, which I value not, being satisfied that it is
the best thing I could ever do for myself; and so, after some discourse of
this kind more, I back to the Office, where all the morning; and after
dinner to it again, all the afternoon, and very late, and then home to
supper, where met W. Batelier and Betty Turner; and, after some talk with
them, and supper, we to bed.  This day, I received so earnest an
invitation again from Roger Pepys, to come to Sturbridge-Fair [at
Cambridge] that I resolve to let my wife go, which she shall do the next
week, and so to bed.  This day I received two letters from the Duke of
Richmond about his yacht, which is newly taken into the King's service,
and I am glad of it, hoping hereby to oblige him, and to have occasions of
seeing his noble Duchess, which I admire.

9th.  Up, and to the office, and thence to the Duke of Richmond's lodgings
by his desire, by letter, yesterday.  I find him at his lodgings in the
little building in the bowling-green, at White Hall, that was begun to be
built by Captain Rolt.  They are fine rooms.  I did hope to see his lady,
the beautiful Mrs. Stuart, but she, I hear, is in the country.  His
business was about his yacht, and he seems a mighty good-natured man, and
did presently write me a warrant for a doe from Cobham, when the season
comes, bucks season being past.  I shall make much of this acquaintance,
that I may live to see his lady near.  Thence to Westminster, to Sir R.
Longs Office: and, going, met Mr. George Montagu, who talked and
complimented me mightily; and long discourse I had with him, who, for
news, tells me for certain that Trevor do come to be Secretary at
Michaelmas, and that Morrice goes out, and he believes, without any
compensation.  He tells me that now Buckingham does rule all; and the
other day, in the King's journey he is now on, at Bagshot, and that way,
he caused Prince Rupert's horses to be turned out of an inne, and caused
his own to be kept there, which the Prince complained of to the King, and
the Duke of York seconded the complaint; but the King did over-rule it for
Buckingham, by which there are high displeasures among them; and
Buckingham and Arlington rule all.  Thence by water home and to dinner,
and after dinner by water again to White Hall, where Brouncker, W. Pen,
and I attended the Commissioners of the Treasury about the
victualling-contract, where high words between Sir Thomas Clifford and us,
and myself more particularly, who told him that something, that he said
was told him about this business, was a flat untruth.  However, we went on
to our business in, the examination of the draught, and so parted, and I
vexed at what happened, and Brouncker and W. Pen and I home in a hackney
coach.  And I all that night so vexed that I did not sleep almost all
night, which shows how unfit I am for trouble.  So, after a little supper,
vexed, and spending a little time melancholy in making a base to the
Lark's song, I to bed.

10th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there to Sir W. Coventry's
house, where I staid in his dining-room two hours thinking to speak with
him, but I find Garraway and he are private, which I am glad of, Captain
Cocke bringing them this day together.  Cocke come out and talked to me,
but it was too late for me to stay longer, and therefore to the Treasury
chamber, where the rest met, and W. Coventry come presently after.  And we
spent the morning in finishing the Victualler's contract, and so I by
water home, and there dined with me Batelier and his wife, and Mercer, and
my people, at a good venison-pasty; and after dinner I and W. Howe, who
come to see me, by water to the Temple, and met our four women, my wife,
M. Batelier, Mercer, and Deb., at the Duke's play-house, and there saw
"The Maid in the Mill," revived--a pretty, harmless old play.  Thence to
Unthanke's, and 'Change, where wife did a little business, while Mercer
and I staid in the coach; and, in a quarter of an hour, I taught her the
whole Larke's song perfectly, so excellent an eare she hath. Here we at
Unthanke's 'light, and walked them to White Hall, my wife mighty angry at
it, and did give me ill words before Batelier, which vexed me, but I made
no matter of it, but vexed to myself.  So landed them, it being fine
moonshine, at the Bear, and so took water to the other side, and home.  I
to the office, where a child is laid at Sir J. Minnes's door, as there was
one heretofore.  So being good friends again, my wife seeking, it, by my
being silent I overcoming her, we to bed.

11th.  Up, and at my Office all the morning, and after dinner all the
afternoon in my house with Batelier shut up, drawing up my defence to the
Duke of York upon his great letter, which I have industriously taken this
opportunity of doing for my future use.  At it late, and my mind and head
mighty full of it all night.

12th.  At it again in the morning, and then to the Office, where till
noon, and I do see great whispering among my brethren about their replies
to the Duke of York, which vexed me, though I know no reason for it; for I
have no manner of ground to fear them.  At noon home to dinner, and, after
dinner, to work all the afternoon again.  At home late, and so to bed.

13th (Lord's day).  The like all this morning and afternoon, and finished
it to my mind.  So about four o'clock walked to the Temple, and there by
coach to St. James's, and met, to my wish, the Duke of York and Mr. Wren;
and understand the Duke of York hath received answers from Brouncker, W.
Pen, and J. Minnes; and as soon as he saw me, he bid Mr. Wren read them
over with me.  So having no opportunity of talk with the Duke of York, and
Mr. Wren some business to do, he put them into my hands like an idle
companion, to, take home with me before himself had read them, which do
give me great opportunity of altering my answer, if there was cause. So
took a hackney and home, and after supper made my wife to read them all
over, wherein she is mighty useful to me; and I find them all evasions,
and in many things false, and in few, to the full purpose. Little said
reflective on me, though W. Pen and J. Minnes do mean me in one or two
places, and J. Minnes a little more plainly would lead the Duke of York to
question the exactness of my keeping my records; but all to no purpose.
My mind is mightily pleased by this, if I can but get time to have a copy
taken of them, for my future use; but I must return them tomorrow.  So to
bed.

14th.  Up betimes, and walked to the Temple, and stopped, viewing the
Exchange, and Paul's, and St. Fayth's, where strange how the very sight of
the stones falling from the top of the steeple do make me sea-sick! But no
hurt, I hear, hath yet happened in all this work of the steeple, which is
very much.  So from the Temple I by coach to St. James's, where I find Sir
W. Pen and Lord Anglesey, who delivered this morning his answer to the
Duke of York, but I could not see it.  But after being above with the Duke
of York, but said nothing, I down with Mr. Wren; and he and I read all
over that I had, and I expounded them to him, and did so order it that I
had them home with me, so that I shall, to my heart's wish, be able to
take a copy of them.  After dinner, I by water to, White Hall; and there,
with the Cofferer and Sir Stephen Fox, attended the Commissioners of the
Treasury, about bettering our fund; and are promised it speedily.  Thence
by water home, and so all the afternoon and evening late busy at the
office, and then home to supper, and Mrs. Turner comes to see my wife
before her journey to-morrow, but she is in bed, and so sat talking to
little purpose with me a great while, and, she gone, I to bed.

15th.  Up mighty betimes, my wife and people, Mercer lying here all night,
by three o'clock, and I about five; and they before, and I after them, to
the coach in Bishopsgate Street, which was not ready to set out. So took
wife and Mercer and Deb. and W. Hewer (who are all to set out this day for
Cambridge, to cozen Roger Pepys's, to see Sturbridge Fayre); and I shewed
them the Exchange, which is very finely carried on, with good dispatch.
So walked back and saw them gone, there being only one man in the coach
besides them; and so home to the Office, where Mrs. Daniel come and staid
talking to little purpose with me to borrow money, but I did not lend her
any, having not opportunity para hater allo thing mit her. At the office
all the morning, and at noon dined with my people at home, and so to the
office again a while, and so by water to the King's playhouse, to see a
new play, acted but yesterday, a translation out of French by Dryden,
called "The Ladys a la Mode:" so mean a thing as, when they come to say it
would be acted again to-morrow, both he that said it, Beeson, and the pit
fell a-laughing, there being this day not a quarter of the pit full.
Thence to St. James's and White Hall to wait on the Duke of York, but
could not come to speak to him till time to go home, and so by water home,
and there late at the office and my chamber busy, and so after a little
supper to bed.

16th.  Up; and dressing myself I did begin para toker the breasts of my
maid Jane, which elle did give way to more than usual heretofore, so I
have a design to try more when I can bring it to.  So to the office, and
thence to St. James's to the Duke of York, walking it to the Temple, and
in my way observe that the Stockes are now pulled quite down; and it will
make the coming into Cornhill and Lumber Street mighty noble. I stopped,
too, at Paul's, and there did go into St. Fayth's Church, and also in the
body of the west part of the Church; and do see a hideous sight of the
walls of the Church ready to fall, that I was in fear as long as I was in
it: and here I saw the great vaults underneath the body of the Church.  No
hurt, I hear, is done yet, since their going to pull down the Church and
steeple; but one man, on Monday this week, fell from the top to a piece of
the roof, of the east end, that stands next the steeple, and there broke
himself all to pieces.  It is pretty here to see how the late Church was
but a case wrought over the old Church; for you may see the very old
pillars standing whole within the wall of this. When I come to St.
James's, I find the Duke of York gone with the King to see the muster of
the Guards in Hyde Park; and their Colonel, the Duke of Monmouth, to take
his command this day of the King's Life-Guard, by surrender of my Lord
Gerard.  So I took a hackney-coach and saw it all: and indeed it was
mighty noble, and their firing mighty fine, and the Duke of Monmouth in
mighty rich clothes; but the well-ordering of the men I understand not.
Here, among a thousand coaches that were there, I saw and spoke to Mrs.
Pierce: and by and by Mr. Wren hunts me out, and gives me my Lord
Anglesey's answer to the Duke of York's letter, where, I perceive, he do
do what he can to hurt me, by bidding the Duke of York call for my books:
but this will do me all the right in the world, and yet I am troubled at
it.  So away out of the Park, and home; and there Mr. Gibson and I to
dinner: and all the afternoon with him, writing over anew, and a little
altering, my answer to the Duke of York, which I have not yet delivered,
and so have the opportunity of doing it after seeing all their answers,
though this do give me occasion to alter very little. This done, he to
write it over, and I to the Office, where late, and then home; and he had
finished it; and then he to read to me the life of Archbishop Laud, wrote
by Dr. Heylin; which is a shrewd book, but that which I believe will do
the Bishops in general no great good, but hurt, it pleads for so much
Popish.  So after supper to bed.  This day my father's letters tell me of
the death of poor Fancy, in the country, big with puppies, which troubles
me, as being one of my oldest acquaintances and servants.  Also good
Stankes is dead.

17th.  Up, and all the morning sitting at the office, where every body
grown mighty cautious in what they do, or omit to do, and at noon comes
Knepp, with design to dine with Lord Brouncker, but she being undressed,
and there being: much company, dined with me; and after dinner I out with
her, and carried her to the playhouse; and in the way did give her five
guineas as a fairing, I having given her nothing a great while, and her
coming hither sometimes having been matter of cost to her, and so I to St.
James's, but missed of the Duke of York, and so went back to the King's
playhouse, and saw "Rollo, Duke of Normandy," which, for old acquaintance,
pleased me pretty well, and so home and to my business,. and to read
again, and to bed.  This evening Batelier comes to tell me that he was
going down to Cambridge to my company, to see the Fair, which vexed me,
and the more because I fear he do know that Knepp did dine with me
to-day.--[And that he might tell Mrs. Pepys.--B.]

18th.  Up, and to St. James's, and there took a turn or two in the Park;
and then up to the Duke of York, and there had opportunity of delivering
my answer to his late letter, which he did not read, but give to Mr. Wren,
as looking on it as a thing I needed not have done, but only that I might
not give occasion to the rest to suspect my communication with the Duke of
York against them.  So now I am at rest in that matter, and shall be more,
when my copies are finished of their answers, which I am now taking with
all speed.  Thence to my several booksellers and elsewhere, about several
errands, and so at noon home, and after dinner by coach to White Hall, and
thither comes the Duke of York to us, and by and by met at the robe
chamber upon our usual business, where the Duke of York I find somewhat
sour, and particularly angry with Lord Anglesey for his not being there
now, nor at other times so often as he should be with us. So to the King's
house, and saw a piece of "Henry the Fourth;" at the end of the play,
thinking to have gone abroad with Knepp, but it was too late, and she to
get her part against to-morrow, in "The Silent Woman," and so I only set
her at home, and away home myself, and there to read again and sup with
Gibson, and so to bed.

19th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy, and so dined
with my people at home, and then to the King's playhouse, and there saw
"The Silent Woman;" the best comedy, I think, that ever was wrote; and
sitting by Shadwell the poet, he was big with admiration of it.  Here was
my Lord Brouncker and W. Pen and their ladies in the box, being grown
mighty kind of a sudden; but, God knows, it will last but a little while,
I dare swear.  Knepp did her part mighty well.  And so home straight, and
to work, and particularly to my cozen Roger, who, W. Hewer and my wife
writes me, do use them with mighty plenty and noble entertainment: so home
to supper, and to bed.  All the news now is, that Mr. Trevor is for
certain now to be Secretary, in Morrice's place, which the Duke of York
did himself tell me yesterday; and also that Parliament is to be adjourned
to the 1st of March, which do please me well, hoping thereby to get my
things in a little better order than I should have done; and the less
attendances at that end of the town in winter.  So home to supper and to
bed.

20th (Lord's day).  Up, and to set some papers to rights in my chamber,
and the like in my office, and so to church, at our own church, and heard
but a dull sermon of one Dr. Hicks, who is a suitor to Mrs. Howell, the
widow of our turner of the Navy; thence home to dinner, staying till past
one o'clock for Harris, whom I invited, and to bring Shadwell the poet
with him; but they come not, and so a good dinner lost, through my own
folly.  And so to dinner alone, having since church heard the boy read
over Dryden's Reply to Sir R. Howard's Answer, about his Essay of Poesy,
and a letter in answer to that; the last whereof is mighty silly, in
behalf of Howard.

     [The title of the letter is as follows: "A Letter from a Gentleman
     to the Honourable Ed. Howard, Esq., occasioned by a Civiliz'd
     Epistle of Mr. Dryden's before his Second Edition of his Indian
     Emperour.  In the Savoy, printed by Thomas Newcomb, 1668."  The
     "Civiliz'd Epistle" was a caustic attack on Sir Robert Howard; and
     the Letter is signed, "Sir, your faithful and humble servant, R.
     F."--i.e., Richard Flecknoe.]

Thence walked forth and got a coach and to visit Mrs. Pierce, with whom,
and him, I staid a little while, and do hear how the Duchesse of Monmouth
is at this time in great trouble of the shortness of her lame leg, which
is likely to grow shorter and shorter, that she will never recover it.
Thence to St. Margaret's Church, thinking to have seen Betty Michell, but
she was not there.  So back, and walked to Gray's Inn walks a while, but
little company; and so over the fields to Clerkenwell, to see whether I
could find that the fair Botelers do live there still, I seeing Frances
the other day in a coach with Cary Dillon, her old servant, but know not
where she lives.  So walked home, and there walked in the garden an hour,
it being mighty pleasant weather, and so took my Lady Pen and Mrs. Markham
home with me and sent for Mrs. Turner, and by and by comes Sir W. Pen and
supped with me, a good supper, part of my dinner to-day.  They gone, Mrs.
Turner staid an hour talking with me .  . .  .  So parted, and I to bed.

21st. Up, and betimes Sir D. Gawden with me talking about the Victualling
business, which is now under dispute for a new contract, or whether it
shall be put into a Commission.  He gone, comes Mr. Hill to talk with me
about Lanyon's business, and so being in haste I took him to the water
with me, and so to White Hall, and there left him, and I to Sir W.
Coventry, and shewed him my answer to the Duke of York's great letter,
which he likes well.  We also discoursed about the Victualling business,
which he thinks there is a design to put into a way of Commission, but do
look upon all things to be managed with faction, and is grieved under it.
So to St. James's, and there the Duke of York did of his own accord come
to me, and tell me that he had read, and do like of, my answers to the
objections which he did give me the other day, about the Navy; and so did
W. Coventry too, who told me that the Duke of York had shown him them: So
to White Hall a little and the Chequer, and then by water home to dinner
with my people, where Tong was also this day with me, whom I shall employ
for a time, and so out again and by water to Somerset House, but when come
thither I turned back and to Southwarke-Fair, very dirty, and there saw
the puppet-show of Whittington, which was pretty to see; and how that idle
thing do work upon people that see it, and even myself too!  And thence to
Jacob Hall's dancing on the ropes, where I saw such action as I never saw
before, and mightily worth seeing; and here took acquaintance with a
fellow that carried me to a tavern, whither come the musick of this booth,
and by and by Jacob Hall himself, with whom I had a mind to speak, to hear
whether he had ever any mischief by falls in his time.  He told me, "Yes,
many; but never to the breaking of a limb:" he seems a mighty strong man.
So giving them a bottle or two of wine, I away with Payne, the waterman.
He, seeing me at the play, did get a link to light me, and so light me to
the Beare, where Bland, my waterman, waited for me with gold and other
things he kept for me, to the value of L40 and more, which I had about me,
for fear of my pockets being cut.  So by link-light through the bridge, it
being mighty dark, but still weather, and so home, where I find my draught
of "The Resolution" come, finished, from Chatham; but will cost me, one
way or other, about L12 or L13, in the board, frame, and garnishing, which
is a little too much, but I will not be beholden to the King's officers
that do it.  So to supper, and the boy to read to me, and so to bed.  This
day I met Mr. Moore in the New Exchange, and had much talk of my Lord's
concernments.  This day also come out first the new five-pieces in gold,
coined by the Guiny Company; and I did get two pieces of Mr. Holder.

     [Guineas took their name from the gold brought from Guinea by the
     African Company in 1663, who, as an encouragement to bring over gold
     to be coined, were permitted by their charter from Charles II. to
     have their stamp of an elephant upon the coin.  When first coined
     they were valued at 20s., but were worth 30s. in 1695.  There were
     likewise fivepound pieces, like the guinea, with the inscription
     upon the rim.]

22nd.  Up, and to the Office, where sitting all the morning at noon, home
to dinner, with my people, and so to the Office again, where busy all the
afternoon, and in the evening spent my time walking in the dark, in the
garden, to favour my eyes, which I find nothing but ease to help.  In the
garden there comes to me my Lady Pen and Mrs. Turner and Markham, and we
sat and talked together, and I carried them home, and there eat a bit of
something, and by and by comes Sir W. Pen, and eat with us, and mighty
merry-in appearance, at least, he being on all occasions glad to be at
friendship with me, though we hate one another, and know it on both sides.
They gone, Mrs. Turner and I to walk in the garden .  .  .  .  So led her
home, and I back to bed.  This day Mr. Wren did give me, at the Board,
Commissioner Middleton's answer to the Duke of York's great letter; so
that now I have all of them.

23rd.  At my office busy all the morning.  At noon comes Mr. Evelyn to me,
about some business with the Office, and there in discourse tells me of
his loss, to the value of F 500, which he hath met with, in a late attempt
of making of bricks

     [At the end of the year 1666 a Dutchman of the Prince of Orange's
     party, named Kiviet, came over to England with proposals for
     embanking the river from the Temple to the Tower with brick,
     and was knighted by the king.  He was introduced to Evelyn, whom he
     persuaded to join with him in a great undertaking for the making of
     bricks.  On March 26th, 1667, the two went in search of brick-earth,
     and in September articles were drawn up between them for the purpose
     of proceeding in the manufacture.  In April, 1668, Evelyn subscribed
     50,000 bricks for the building of a college for the Royal Society,
     in addition to L50 given previously for the same purpose.  No more
     information on the subject is given in Evelyn's "Diary."]

upon an adventure with others, by which he presumed to have got a great
deal of money: so that I see the most ingenious men may sometimes be
mistaken.  So to the 'Change a little, and then home to dinner, and then
by water to White Hall, to attend the Commissioners of the Treasury with
Alderman Backewell, about L10,000 he is to lend us for Tangier, and then
up to a Committee of the Council, where was the Duke of York, and they did
give us, the Officers of the Navy, the proposals of the several bidders
for the victualling of the Navy, for us to give our answer to, which is
the best, and whether it be better to victual by commission or contract,
and to bring them our answer by Friday afternoon, which is a great deal of
work.  So thence back with Sir J. Minnes home, and come after us Sir W.
Pen and Lord Brouncker, and we fell to the business, and I late when they
were gone to digest something of it, and so to supper and to bed.

24th.  Up betimes and Sir D. Gawden with me, and I told him all, being
very desirous for the King's sake, as well as my own, that he may be kept
in it, and after consulting him I to the Office, where we met again and
spent most of the morning about this business, and no other, and so at
noon home to dinner, and then close with Mr. Gibson till night, drawing up
our answer, which I did the most part by seven at night, and so to Lord
Brouncker and the rest at his lodgings to read it, and they approved of
it.  So back home to supper, and made my boy read to me awhile, and then
to bed.

25th.  Up, and Sir D. Gawden with me betimes to confer again about this
business, and he gone I all the morning finishing our answer, which I did
by noon, and so to dinner, and W. Batelier with me, who is lately come
from Impington, beyond which I perceive he went not, whatever his pretence
at first was; and so he tells me how well and merry all are there, and how
nobly used by my cozen.  He gone, after dinner I to work again, and Gibson
having wrote our answer fair and got Brouncker and the rest to sign it, I
by coach to White Hall to the Committee of the Council, which met late,
and Brouncker and J. Minnes with me, and there the Duke of York present
(but not W. Coventry, who I perceive do wholly avoid to have to do
publickly in this business, being shy of appearing in any Navy business,
which I telling him the other day that I thought the King might suffer by
it, he told me that the occasion is now so small that it cannot be fatal
to the service, and for the present it is better for him not to appear,
saying that it may fare the worse for his appearing in it as things are
now governed), where our answer was read and debated, and some hot words
between the Duke of York and Sir T. Clifford, the first for and the latter
against Gawden, but the whole put off to to-morrow's Council, for till the
King goes out of town the next week the Council sits every day.  So with
the Duke of York and some others to his closet, and Alderman Backewell
about a Committee of Tangier, and there did agree upon a price for pieces
of eight at 4s. 6d. Present the Duke of York, Arlington, Berkeley, Sir J.
Minnes, and myself. They gone, the Duke of York did tell me how hot
Clifford is for Child, and for removing of old Officers, he saying plainly
to-night, that though D. Gawden was a man that had done the best service
that he believed any man, or any ten men, could have done, yet that it was
for the King's interest not to let it lie too long in one hand, lest
nobody should be able to serve him but one.  But the Duke of York did
openly tell him that he was not for removing of old servants that have
done well, neither in this place, nor in any other place, which is very
nobly said.  It being 7 or 8 at night, I home with Backewell by coach, and
so walked to D. Gawden's, but he not at home, and so back to my chamber,
the boy to read to me, and so to supper and to bed.

26th.  Could sleep but little last night, for my concernments in this
business of the victualling for Sir D. Gawden, so up in the morning and he
comes to me, and there I did tell him all, and give him my advice, and so
he away, and I to the office, where we met and did a little business, and
I left them and by water to attend the Council, which I did all the
morning, but was not called in, but the Council meets again in the
afternoon on purpose about it.  So I at noon to Westminster Hall and there
stayed a little, and at the Swan also, thinking to have got Doll Lane
thither, but elle did not understand my signs; and so I away and walked to
Charing Cross, and there into the great new Ordinary, by my Lord
Mulgrave's, being led thither by Mr. Beale, one of Oliver's, and now of
the King's Guards; and he sat with me while I had two grilled pigeons,
very handsome and good meat: and there he and I talked of our old
acquaintances, W. Clerke and others, he being a very civil man, and so
walked to Westminster and there parted, and I to the Swan again, but did
nothing, and so to White Hall, and there attended the King and Council,
who met and heard our answer.  I present, and then withdrew; and they sent
two hours at least afterwards about it, and at last rose; and to my great
content, the Duke of York, at coming out, told me that it was carried for
D. Gawden at 6d. 8d., and 8 3/4d.; but with great difficulty, I
understand, both from him and others, so much that Sir Edward Walker told
me that he prays to God he may never live to need to plead his merit, for
D. Gawden's sake; for that it hath stood him in no stead in this business
at all, though both he and all the world that speaks of him, speaks of him
as the most deserving man of any servant of the King's in the whole
nation, and so I think he is: but it is done, and my heart is glad at it.
So I took coach and away, and in Holborne overtook D. Gawden's coach, and
stopped and went home, and Gibson to come after, and to my house, where D.
Gawden did talk a little, and he do mightily acknowledge my kindness to
him, and I know I have done the King and myself good service in it.  So he
gone, and myself in mighty great content in what is done, I to the office
a little, and then home to supper, and the boy to read to me, and so to
bed.  This noon I went to my Lady Peterborough's house, and talked with
her about the money due to her Lord, and it gives me great trouble, her
importunity and impertinency about it.  This afternoon at Court I met with
Lord Hinchingbroke, newly come out of the country, who tells me that
Creed's business with Mrs. Pickering will do, which I am neither troubled
nor glad at.

27th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my office to finish my journall for five
days past, and so abroad and walked to White Hall, calling in at Somerset
House Chapel, and also at the Spanish Embassador's at York House, and
there did hear a little masse: and so to White Hall; and there the King
being gone to Chapel, I to walk all the morning in the Park, where I met
Mr. Wren; and he and I walked together in the Pell-Mell, it being most
summer weather that ever was seen: and here talking of several things: of
the corruption of the Court, and how unfit it is for ingenious men, and
himself particularly, to live in it, where a man cannot live but he must
spend, and cannot get suitably, without breach of his honour: and did
thereupon tell me of the basest thing of my Lord Barkeley, one of the
basest things that ever was heard of of a man, which was this: how the
Duke of York's Commissioners do let his wine-licenses at a bad rate, and
being offered a better, they did persuade the Duke of York to give some
satisfaction to the former to quit it, and let it to the latter, which
being done, my Lord Barkeley did make the bargain for the former to have
L1500 a-year to quit it; whereof, since, it is come to light that they
were to have but L800 and himself L700, which the Duke of York hath ever
since for some years paid, though this second bargain hath been broken,
and the Duke of York lost by it, [half] of what the first was.  He told me
that there hath been a seeming accommodation between the Duke of York and
the Duke of Buckingham and Lord Arlington, the two latter desiring it; but
yet that there is not true agreement between them, but they do labour to
bring in all new creatures into play, and the Duke of York do oppose it,
as particularly in this of Sir D. Gawden.  Thence, he gone, I to the
Queen's Chapel, and there heard some good singing; and so to White Hall,
and saw the King and Queen at dinner and thence with Sir Stephen Fox to
dinner: and the Cofferer with us; and there mighty kind usage, and good
discourse.  Thence spent all the afternoon walking in the Park, and then
in the evening at Court, on the Queen's side; and there met Mr. Godolphin,
who tells me that the news, is true we heard yesterday, of my Lord
Sandwich's being come to Mount's Bay, in Cornwall, and so I heard this
afternoon at Mrs. Pierce's, whom I went to make a short visit to. This
night, in the Queen's drawing-room, my Lord Brouncker told me the
difference that is now between the three Embassadors here, the Venetian,
French, and Spaniard; the third not being willing to make a visit to the
first, because he would not receive him at the door; who is willing to
give him as much respect as he did to the French, who was used no
otherwise, and who refuses now to take more of him, upon being desired
thereto, in order to the making an accommodation in this matter, which is
very pretty.  So a boat staying for me all this evening, I home in the
dark about eight at night, and so over the ruins from the Old Swan home
with great trouble, and so to hear my boy read a little, and supper and to
bed.  This evening I found at home Pelling and Wallington and one Aldrige,
and we supped and sung.

28th.  Up betimes, and Knepp's maid comes to me, to tell me that the
women's day at the playhouse is to-day, and that therefore I must be
there, to encrease their profit.  I did give the pretty maid Betty that
comes to me half-a-crown for coming, and had a baiser or two-elle being
mighty jolie.  And so I about my business.  By water to St. James's, and
there had good opportunity of speaking with the Duke of York, who desires
me again, talking on that matter, to prepare something for him to do for
the better managing of our Office, telling me that, my Lord Keeper and he
talking about it yesterday, my Lord Keeper did advise him to do so, it
being better to come from him than otherwise, which I have promised to do.
Thence to my Lord Burlington's houses the first time I ever was there, it
being the house built by Sir John Denham, next to Clarendon House; and
here I visited my Lord Hinchingbroke and his lady; Mr. Sidney Montagu
being come last night to town unexpectedly from Mount's Bay, where he left
my Lord well, eight days since, so as we may now hourly expect to hear of
his arrival at Portsmouth.  Sidney is mighty grown; and I am glad I am
here to see him at his first coming, though it cost me dear, for here I
come to be necessitated to supply them with L500 for my Lord.  He sent him
up with a declaration to his friends, of the necessity of his being
presently supplied with L2000; but I do not think he will get one.
However, I think it becomes my duty to my Lord to do something
extraordinary in this, and the rather because I have been remiss in
writing to him during this voyage, more than ever I did in my life, and
more indeed than was fit for me.  By and by comes Sir W. Godolphin to see
Mr. Sidney, who, I perceive, is much dissatisfied that he should come to
town last night, and not yet be with my Lord Arlington, who, and all the
town, hear of his being come to town, and he did, it seems, take notice of
it to Godolphin this morning: so that I perceive this remissness in
affairs do continue in my Lord's managements still, which I am sorry for;
but, above all, to see in what a condition my Lord is for money, that I
dare swear he do not know where to take up L500 of any man in England at
this time, upon his word, but of myself, as I believe by the sequel hereof
it will appear.  Here I first saw and saluted my Lady Burlington, a very
fine-speaking lady, and a good woman, but old, and not handsome; but a
brave woman in her parts.  Here my Lady Hinchingbroke tells me that she
hath bought most of the wedding-clothes for Mrs. Dickering, so that the
thing is gone through, and will soon be ended; which I wonder at, but let
them do as they will.  Here I also, standing by a candle that was brought
for sealing of a letter, do set my periwigg a-fire, which made such an odd
noise, nobody could tell what it was till they saw the flame, my back
being to the candle.  Thence to Westminster Hall and there walked a
little, and to the Exchequer, and so home by water, and after eating a bit
I to my vintner's, and there did only look upon su wife, which is mighty
handsome; and so to my glove and ribbon shop, in Fenchurch Street, and did
the like there.  And there, stopping against the door of the shop, saw
Mrs. Horsfall, now a late widow, in a coach.  I to her, and shook her by
the hand, and so she away; and I by coach towards the King's playhouse,
and meeting W. Howe took him with me, and there saw "The City Match;" not
acted these thirty years, and but a silly play: the King and Court there;
the house, for the women's sake, mighty full.  So I to White Hall, and
there all the evening on the Queen's side; and it being a most summerlike
day, and a fine warm evening, the Italians come in a barge under the
leads, before the Queen's drawing-room; and so the Queen and ladies went
out, and heard them, for almost an hour: and it was indeed very good
together; but yet there was but one voice that alone did appear
considerable, and that was Seignor Joanni.  This done, by and by they went
in; and here I saw Mr. Sidney Montagu kiss the Queen's hand, who was
mighty kind to him, and the ladies looked mightily on him; and the King
come by and by, and did talk to him. So I away by coach with Alderman
Backewell home, who is mighty kind to me, more than ordinary, in his
expressions.  But I do hear this day what troubles me, that Sir W.
Coventry is quite out of play, the King seldom speaking to him; and that
there is a design of making a Lord Treasurer, and that my Lord Arlington
shall be the man; but I cannot believe it. But yet the Duke of Buckingham
hath it in his mind, and those with him, to make a thorough alteration in
things; and, among the rest, Coventry to be out.  The Duke of York did
this day tell me how hot the whole party was in the business of Gawden;
and particularly, my Lord Anglesey tells me, the Duke of Buckingham, for
Child against Gawden; but the Duke of York did stand stoutly to it.  So
home to read and sup, and to bed.

29th (Tuesday, Michaelmas day).  Up, and to the Office, where all the
morning.


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

   TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                OCTOBER
                                  1668

     [In this part of the "Diary" no entry occurs for thirteen days,
     though there are several pages left blank.  During the interval
     Pepys went into the country, as he subsequently mentions his having
     been at Saxham, in Suffolk, during the king's visit to Lord Crofts,
     which took place at this time (see October 23rd, host).  He might
     also probably have gone to Impington to fetch his wife.  The pages
     left blank were never filled up.--B.]

October 11th (Lord's day').  Up and to church, where I find Parson Mills
come to town and preached, and the church full, most people being now come
home to town, though the season of year is as good as summer in all
respects.  At noon dined at home with my wife, all alone, and busy all the
afternoon in my closet, making up some papers with W. Hewer and at night
comes Mr. Turner and his wife, and there they tell me that Mr. Harper is
dead at Deptford, and so now all his and my care is, how to secure his
being Storekeeper in his stead; and here they and their daughter, and a
kinswoman that come along with them, did sup with me, and pretty merry,
and then, they gone, and my wife to read to me, and to bed.

12th.  Up, and with Mr. Turner by water to White Hall, there to think to
enquire when the Duke of York will be in town, in order to Mr. Turner's
going down to Audley Ends about his place; and here I met in St. James's
Park with one that told us that the Duke of York would be in town
to-morrow, and so Turner parted and went home, and I also did stop my
intentions of going to the Court, also this day, about securing Mr.
Turner's place of Petty-purveyor to Mr. Hater.  So I to my Lord
Brouncker's, thinking to have gone and spoke to him about it, but he is
gone out to town till night, and so, meeting a gentleman of my Lord
Middleton's looking for me about the payment of the L1000 lately ordered
to his Lord, in advance of his pay, which shall arise upon his going
Governor to Tangier, I did go to his Lord's lodgings, and there spoke the
first time with him, and find him a shrewd man, but a drinking man, I
think, as the world says; but a man that hath seen much of the world, and
is a Scot.  I offered him my service, though I can do him little; but he
sends his man home with me, where I made him stay, till I had gone to Sir
W. Pen, to bespeak him about Mr. Hater, who, contrary to my fears, did
appear very friendly, to my great content; for I was afraid of his
appearing for his man Burroughs.  But he did not; but did declare to me
afterwards his intentions to desire an excuse in his own business, to be
eased of the business of the Comptroller, his health not giving him power
to stay always in town, but he must go into the country.  I did say little
to him but compliment, having no leisure to think of his business, or any
man's but my own, and so away and home, where I find Sir H. Cholmly come
to town; and is come hither to see me: and he is a man that I love
mightily, as being, of a gentleman, the most industrious that ever I saw.
He staid with me awhile talking, and telling me his obligations to my Lord
Sandwich, which I was glad of; and that the Duke of Buckingham is now
chief of all men in this kingdom, which I knew before; and that he do
think the Parliament will hardly ever meet again; which is a great many
men's thoughts, and I shall not be sorry for it.  He being gone, I with my
Lord Middleton's servant to Mr. Colvill's, but he was not in town, and so
he parted, and I home, and there to dinner, and Mr. Pelling with us; and
thence my wife and Mercer, and W. Hewer and Deb., to the King's playhouse,
and I afterwards by water with them, and there we did hear the Eunuch
(who, it seems, is a Frenchman, but long bred in Italy) sing, which I
seemed to take as new to me, though I saw him on Saturday last, but said
nothing of it; but such action and singing I could never have imagined to
have heard, and do make good whatever Tom Hill used to tell me.  Here we
met with Mr. Batelier and his sister, and so they home with us in two
coaches, and there at my house staid and supped, and this night my
bookseller Shrewsbury comes, and brings my books of Martyrs, and I did pay
him for them, and did this night make the young women before supper to
open all the volumes for me.  So to supper, and after supper to read a
ridiculous nonsensical book set out by Will. Pen, for the Quakers; but so
full of nothing but nonsense, that I was ashamed to read in it. So they
gone, we to bed.

     [Penn's first work, entitled, "Truth exalted, in a short but sure
     testimony against all those religions, faiths, and worships, that
     have been formed and followed, in the darkness of apostacy; and for
     that glorious light which is now risen, and shines forth, in the
     life and doctrine of the despised Quakers .  .  .  .  by W. Penn,
     whom divine love constrains, in holy contempt, to trample on Egypt's
     glory, not fearing the King's wrath, having beheld the Majesty of
     Him who is invisible:"  London, 1668.--B.]

13th.  Up, and to the office, and before the office did speak with my Lord
Brouncker, and there did get his ready assent to T. Hater's having of Mr.
Turner's place, and so Sir J. Minnes's also: but when we come to sit down
at the Board, comes to us Mr. Wren this day to town, and tells me that
James Southern do petition the Duke of York for the Storekeeper's place of
Deptford, which did trouble me much, and also the Board, though, upon
discourse, after he was gone, we did resolve to move hard for our Clerks,
and that places of preferment may go according to seniority and merit.
So, the Board up, I home with my people to dinner, and so to the office
again, and there, after doing some business, I with Mr. Turner to the Duke
of Albemarle's at night; and there did speak to him about his appearing to
Mr. Wren a friend to Mr. Turner, which he did take kindly from me; and so
away thence, well pleased with what we had now done, and so I with him
home, stopping at my Lord Brouncker's, and getting his hand to a letter I
wrote to the Duke of York for T. Hater, and also at my Lord Middleton's,
to give him an account of what I had done this day, with his man, at
Alderman Backewell's, about the getting of his L1000 paid;

     [It was probably for this payment that the tally was obtained, the
     loss of which caused Pepys so much anxiety.  See November 26th,
     1668]

and here he did take occasion to discourse about the business of the Dutch
war, which, he says, he was always an enemy to; and did discourse very
well of it, I saying little, but pleased to hear him talk; and to see how
some men may by age come to know much, and yet by their drinking and other
pleasures render themselves not very considerable.  I did this day find by
discourse with somebody, that this nobleman was the great Major-General
Middleton; that was of the Scots army, in the beginning of the late war
against the King.  Thence home and to the office to finish my letters, and
so home and did get my wife to read to me, and then Deb to comb my head .
.  .  .

14th.  Up, and by water, stopping at Michell's, and there saw Betty, but
could have no discourse with her, but there drank.  To White Hall, and
there walked to St. James's, where I find the Court mighty full, it being
the Duke or York's birthday; and he mighty fine, and all the musick, one
after another, to my great content.  Here I met with Sir H. Cholmly; and
he and I to walk, and to my Lord Barkeley's new house; there to see a new
experiment of a cart, which; by having two little wheeles fastened to the
axle-tree, is said to make it go with half the ease and more, than another
cart but we did not see the trial made.  Thence I home, and after dinner
to St. James's, and there met my brethren; but the Duke of York being gone
out, and to-night being a play there; and a great festival, we would not
stay, but went all of us to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The
Faythful Shepherdess" again, that we might hear the French Eunuch sing,
which we did, to our great content; though I do admire his action as much
as his singing, being both beyond all I ever saw or heard. Thence with W.
Pen home, and there to get my people to read, and to supper, and so to
bed.

15th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at home at dinner,
where, after dinner, my wife and I and Deb. out by coach to the upholsters
in Long Lane, Alderman Reeve's, and then to Alderman Crow's, to see
variety of hangings, and were mightily pleased therewith, and spent the
whole afternoon thereupon; and at last I think we shall pitch upon the
best suit of Apostles, where three pieces for my room will come to almost
L80: so home, and to my office, and then home to supper and to bed.  This
day at the Board comes unexpected the warrants from the Duke of York for
Mr. Turner and Hater, for the places they desire, which contents me
mightily.

16th.  Up, and busy all the morning at the office, and before noon I took
my wife by coach, and Deb., and shewed her Mr. Wren's hangings and bed, at
St. James's, and Sir W. Coventry's in the Pell Mell, for our satisfaction
in what we are going to buy; and so by Mr. Crow's, home, about his
hangings, and do pitch upon buying his second suit of Apostles-the whole
suit, which comes to L83; and this we think the best for us, having now
the whole suit, to answer any other rooms or service.  So home to dinner,
and with Mr. Hater by water to St. James's: there Mr. Hater, to give Mr.
Wren thanks for his kindness about his place that he hath lately granted
him, of Petty Purveyor of petty emptions, upon the removal of Mr. Turner
to be Storekeeper at Deptford, on the death of Harper. And then we all up
to the Duke of York, and there did our usual business, and so I with J.
Minnes home, and there finding my wife gone to my aunt Wight's, to see her
the first time after her coming to town, and indeed the first time, I
think, these two years (we having been great strangers one to the other
for a great while), I to them; and there mighty kindly used, and had a
barrel of oysters, and so to look up and down their house, they having
hung a room since I was there, but with hangings not fit to be seen with
mine, which I find all come home to-night, and here staying an hour or two
we home, and there to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning sitting, and at noon
home to dinner, and to the office all the afternoon, and then late home,
and there with much pleasure getting Mr. Gibbs, that writes well, to write
the name upon my new draught of "The Resolution;" and so set it up, and
altered the situation of some of my pictures in my closet, to my
extraordinary content, and at it with much pleasure till almost 12 at
night.  Mr. Moore and Seymour were with me this afternoon, who tell me
that my Lord Sandwich was received mighty kindly by the King, and is in
exceeding great esteem with him, and the rest about him; but I doubt it
will be hard for him to please both the King and the Duke of York, which I
shall be sorry for.  Mr. Moore tells me the sad condition my Lord is in,
in his estate and debts; and the way he now lives in, so high, and so many
vain servants about him, that he must be ruined, if he do not take up,
which, by the grace of God, I will put him upon, when I come to see him.

18th (Lord's day).  Up, and with my boy Tom all the morning altering the
places of my pictures with great pleasure, and at noon to dinner, and then
comes Mr. Shales to see me, and I with him to recommend him to my Lord
Brouncker's service, which I did at Madam Williams's, and my Lord receives
him.  Thence with Brouncker to Lincolne's Inn, and Mr. Ball, to visit Dr.
Wilkins, now newly Bishop of Chester: and he received us mighty kindly;
and had most excellent discourse from him about his Book of Reall
Character: and so I with Lord Brouncker to White Hall, and there saw the
Queen and some ladies, and with Lord Brouncker back, it again being a
rainy evening, and so my Lord forced to lend me his coach till I got a
hackney, which I did, and so home and to supper, and got my wife to read
to me, and so to bed.

19th.  Up, and to my office to set down my Journall for some days past,
and so to other business.  At the office all the morning upon some
business of Sir W. Warren's, and at noon home to dinner, and thence out by
coach with my wife and Deb. and Mr. Harman, the upholster, and carried
them to take measure of Mr. Wren's bed at St. James's, I being resolved to
have just such another made me, and thence set him down in the Strand, and
my wife and I to the Duke of York's playhouse; and there saw, the first
time acted, "The Queene of Arragon," an old Blackfriars play, but an
admirable one, so good that I am astonished at it, and wonder where it
hath lain asleep all this while, that I have never heard of it before.
Here met W. Batelier and Mrs. Hunt, Deb.'s aunt; and saw her home--a very
witty woman, and one that knows this play, and understands a play mighty
well.  Left her at home in Jewen Street, and we home, and to supper, and
my wife to read to me, and so to bed.

20th.  Up, and to the office all the morning, and then home to dinner,
having this day a new girl come to us in the room of Nell, who is lately,
about four days since, gone away, being grown lazy and proud.  This girl
to stay only till we have a boy, which I intend to keep when I have a
coach, which I am now about.  At this time my wife and I mighty busy
laying out money in dressing up our best chamber, and thinking of a coach
and coachman and horses, &c.; and the more because of Creed's being now
married to Mrs. Pickering; a thing I could never have expected, but it is
done about seven or ten days since, as I hear out of the country. At noon
home to dinner, and my wife and Harman and girl abroad to buy things, and
I walked out to several places to pay debts, and among other things to
look out for a coach, and saw many; and did light on one for which I bid
L50, which do please me mightily, and I believe I shall have it.  So to my
tailor's, and the New Exchange, and so by coach home, and there, having
this day bought "The Queene of Arragon" play, I did get my wife and W.
Batelier to read it over this night by 11 o'clock, and so to bed.

21st.  Lay pretty long talking with content with my wife about our coach
and things, and so to the office, where Sir D. Gawden was to do something
in his accounts.  At noon to dinner to Mr. Batelier's, his mother coming
this day a-housewarming to him, and several friends of his, to which he
invited us.  Here mighty merry, and his mother the same; I heretofore took
her for a gentlewoman, and understanding.  I rose from table before the
rest, because under an obligation to go to my Lord Brouncker's, where to
meet several gentlemen of the Royal Society, to go and make a visit to the
French Embassador Colbert, at Leicester House, he having endeavoured to
make one or two to my Lord Brouncker, as our President, but he was not
within, but I come too late, they being gone before: but I followed to
Leicester House; but they are gore in and up before me; and so I away to
the New Exchange, and there staid for my wife, and she come, we to Cow
Lane, and there I shewed her the coach which I pitch on, and she is out of
herself for joy almost.  But the man not within, so did nothing more
towards an agreement, but to Mr. Crow's about a bed, to have his advice,
and so home, and there had my wife to read to me, and so to supper and to
bed.  Memorandum: that from Crow's, we went back to Charing Cross, and
there left my people at their tailor's, while I to my Lord Sandwich's
lodgings, who come to town the last night, and is come thither to lye: and
met with him within: and among others my new cozen Creed, who looks mighty
soberly; and he and I saluted one another with mighty gravity, till we
come to a little more freedom of talk about it.  But here I hear that Sir
Gilbert Pickering is lately dead, about three days since, which makes some
sorrow there, though not much, because of his being long expected to die,
having been in a lethargy long.  So waited on my Lord to Court, and there
staid and saw the ladies awhile: and thence to my wife, and took them up;
and so home, and to supper and bed.

22nd.  Up, and W. Batelier's Frenchman, a perriwigg maker, comes and
brings me a new one, which I liked and paid him for: a mighty genteel
fellow.  So to the office, where sat all the morning, and at noon home to
dinner, and thence with wife and Deb. to Crow's, and there did see some
more beds; and we shall, I think, pitch upon a camlott one, when all is
done.  Thence sent them home, and I to Arundell House, where the first
time we have met since the vacation, and not much company: but here much
good discourse, and afterwards my Lord and others and I to the Devil
tavern, and there eat and drank, and so late, with Mr. Colwell, home by
coach; and at home took him with me, and there found my uncle Wight and
aunt, and Woolly and his wife, and there supped, and mighty merry.  And
anon they gone, and Mrs. Turner staid, who was there also to talk of her
husband's business; and the truth is, I was the less pleased to talk with
her, for that she hath not yet owned, in any fit manner of thanks, my late
and principal service to her husband about his place, which I alone ought
to have the thanks for, if they know as much as I do; but let it go: if
they do not own it, I shall have it in my hand to teach them to do it.  So
to bed.  This day word come for all the Principal Officers to bring them
[the Commissioners of Accounts] their patents, which I did in the
afternoon, by leaving it at their office, but am troubled at what should
be their design therein.

23rd.  Up, and plasterers at work and painters about my house.
Commissioner Middleton and I to St. James's, where with the rest of our
company we attended on our usual business the Duke of York.  Thence I to
White Hall, to my Lord Sandwich's, where I find my Lord within, but busy,
private; and so I staid a little talking with the young gentlemen: and so
away with Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, towards Tyburne, to see the people
executed; but come too late, it being done; two men and a woman hanged,
and so back again and to my coachmaker's, and there did come a little
nearer agreement for the coach, and so to Duck Lane, and there my
bookseller's, and saw his moher, but elle is so big-bellied that elle is
not worth seeing.  So home, and there all alone to dinner, my wife and W.
Hewer being gone to Deptford to see her mother, and so I to the office all
the afternoon.  In the afternoon comes my cozen, Sidney Pickering, to
bring my wife and me his sister's Favour for her wedding, which is kindly
done, and he gone, I to business again, and in the evening home, made my
wife read till supper time, and so to bed.  This day Pierce do tell me,
among other news, the late frolick and debauchery of Sir Charles Sidly and
Buckhurst, running up and down all the night with their arses bare,
through the streets; and at last fighting, and being beat by the watch and
clapped up all night; and how the King takes their parts; and my Lord
Chief Justice Keeling hath laid the constable by the heels to answer it
next Sessions: which is a horrid shame.  How the King and these gentlemen
did make the fiddlers of Thetford, this last progress, to sing them all
the bawdy songs they could think of.  How Sir W. Coventry was brought the
other day to the Duchesse of York by the Duke, to kiss her hand; who did
acknowledge his unhappiness to occasion her so much sorrow, declaring his
intentions in it, and praying her pardon; which she did give him upon his
promise to make good his pretences of innocence to her family, by his
faithfulness to his master, the Duke of York.  That the Duke of Buckingham
is now all in all, and will ruin Coventry, if he can: and that W. Coventry
do now rest wholly upon the Duke of York for his standing, which is a
great turn.  He tells me that my Lady Castlemayne, however, is a mortal
enemy to the Duke of Buckingham, which I understand not; but, it seems,
she is disgusted with his greatness, and his ill usage of her.  That the
King was drunk at Saxam with Sidly, Buckhurst, &c., the night that my Lord
Arlington come thither, and would not give him audience, or could not
which is true, for it was the night that I was there, and saw the King go
up to his chamber, and was told that the King had been drinking.  He tells
me, too, that the Duke of York did the next day chide Bab. May for his
occasioning the King's giving himself up to these gentlemen, to the
neglecting of my Lord Arlington: to which he answered merrily, that, by
God, there was no man in England that had heads to lose, durst do what
they do, every day, with the King, and asked the Duke of York's pardon:
which is a sign of a mad world.  God bless us out of it!

24th.  This morning comes to me the coachmaker, and agreed with me for
L53, and stand to the courtesy of what more I should give him upon the
finishing of the coach: he is likely also to fit me with a coachman. There
comes also to me Mr. Shotgrave, the operator of our Royal Society, to show
me his method of making the Tubes for the eyes, which are clouterly done,
so that mine are better, but I have well informed myself in several things
from him, and so am glad of speaking with him.  So to the office, where
all the morning, and then to dinner, and so all the afternoon late at the
office, and so home; and my wife to read to me, and then with much content
to bed.  This day Lord Brouncker tells me that the making Sir J. Minnes a
bare Commissioner is now in doing, which I am glad of; but he speaks of
two new Commissioners, which I do not believe.

25th (Lord's day).  Up, and discoursing with my wife about our house and
many new things we are doing of, and so to church I, and there find Jack
Fenn come, and his wife, a pretty black woman: I never saw her before, nor
took notice of her now.  So home and to dinner, and after dinner all the
afternoon got my wife and boy to read to me, and at night W. Batelier
comes and sups with us; and, after supper, to have my head combed by Deb.,
which occasioned the greatest sorrow to me that ever I knew in this world,
for my wife, coming up suddenly, did find me embracing the girl .  .  .  .
I was at a wonderful loss upon it, and the girle also, and I endeavoured
to put it off, but my wife was struck mute and grew angry, and so her
voice come to her, grew quite out of order, and I to say little, but to
bed, and my wife said little also, but could not sleep all night, but
about two in the morning waked me and cried, and fell to tell me as a
great secret that she was a Roman Catholique and had received the Holy
Sacrament, which troubled me, but I took no notice of it, but she went on
from one thing to another till at last it appeared plainly her trouble was
at what she saw, but yet I did not know how much she saw, and therefore
said nothing to her.  But after her much crying and reproaching me with
inconstancy and preferring a sorry girl before her, I did give her no
provocation, but did promise all fair usage to her and love, and foreswore
any hurt that I did with her, till at last she seemed to be at ease again,
and so toward morning a little sleep, and so I with some little repose and
rest

26th.  Rose, and up and by water to White Hall, but with my mind mightily
troubled for the poor girle, whom I fear I have undone by this, my [wife]
telling me that she would turn her out of doors.  However, I was obliged
to attend the Duke of York, thinking to have had a meeting of Tangier
to-day, but had not; but he did take me and Mr. Wren into his closet, and
there did press me to prepare what I had to say upon the answers of my
fellow-officers to his great letter, which I promised to do against his
coming to town again, the next week; and so to other discourse, finding
plainly that he is in trouble, and apprehensions of the Reformers, and
would be found to do what he can towards reforming, himself.  And so
thence to my Lord Sandwich's, where, after long stay, he being in talk
with others privately, I to him; and there he, taking physic and keeping
his chamber, I had an hour's talk with him about the ill posture of things
at this time, while the King gives countenance to Sir Charles Sidly and
Lord Buckhurst, telling him their late story of running up and down the
streets a little while since all night, and their being beaten and clapped
up all night by the constable, who is since chid and imprisoned for his
pains.  He tells me that he thinks his matters do stand well with the
King, and hopes to have dispatch to his mind; but I doubt it, and do see
that he do fear it, too.  He told me my Lady Carteret's trouble about my
writing of that letter of the Duke of York's lately to the Office, which I
did not own, but declared to be of no injury to G. Carteret, and that I
would write a letter to him to satisfy him therein.  But this I am in pain
how to do, without doing myself wrong, and the end I had, of preparing a
justification to myself hereafter, when the faults of the Navy come to be
found out however, I will do it in the best manner I can.  Thence by coach
home and to dinner, finding my wife mightily discontented, and the girle
sad, and no words from my wife to her.  So after dinner they out with me
about two or three things, and so home again, I all the evening busy, and
my wife full of trouble in her looks, and anon to bed, where about
midnight she wakes me, and there falls foul of me again, affirming that
she saw me hug and kiss the girle; the latter I denied, and truly, the
other I confessed and no more, and upon her pressing me did offer to give
her under my hand that I would never see Mrs. Pierce more nor Knepp, but
did promise her particular demonstrations of my true love to her, owning
some indiscretions in what I did, but that there was no harm in it.  She
at last upon these promises was quiet, and very kind we were, and so to
sleep, and

27th.  In the morning up, but my, mind troubled for the poor girle, with
whom I could not get opportunity to speak, but to the office, my mind
mighty full of sorrow for her, to the office, where all the morning, and
to dinner with my people, and to the office all the afternoon, and so at
night home, and there busy to get some things ready against to-morrow's
meeting of Tangier, and that being done, and my clerks gone, my wife did
towards bedtime begin to be in a mighty rage from some new matter that she
had got in her head, and did most part of the night in bed rant at me in
most high terms of threats of publishing my shame, and when I offered to
rise would have rose too, and caused a candle to be light to burn by her
all night in the chimney while she ranted, while the knowing myself to
have given some grounds for it, did make it my business to appease her all
I could possibly, and by good words and fair promises did make her very
quiet, and so rested all night, and rose with perfect good peace, being
heartily afflicted for this folly of mine that did occasion it, but was
forced to be silent about the girle, which I have no mind to part with,
but much less that the poor girle should be undone by my folly. So up with
mighty kindness from my wife and a thorough peace, and being up did by a
note advise the girle what I had done and owned, which note I was in pain
for till she told me she had burned it.  This evening Mr. Spong come, and
sat late with me, and first told me of the instrument called
parallelogram,

     [This useful instrument, used for copying maps, plans, drawings, &c.
     either of the same size, or larger or smaller than the originals, is
     now named a pantograph.]

which I must have one of, shewing me his practice thereon, by a map of
England.

28th.  So by coach with Mr. Gibson to Chancery Lane, and there made oath
before a Master of Chancery to the Tangier account of fees, and so to
White Hall, where, by and by, a Committee met, my Lord Sandwich there, but
his report was not received, it being late; but only a little business
done, about the supplying the place with victuals.  But I did get, to my
great content, my account allowed of fees, with great applause by my Lord
Ashly and Sir W. Pen.  Thence home, calling at one or two places; and
there about our workmen, who are at work upon my wife's closet, and other
parts of my house, that we are all in dirt.  So after dinner with Mr.
Gibson all the afternoon in my closet, and at night to supper and to bed,
my wife and I at good peace, but yet with some little grudgings of trouble
in her and more in me about the poor girle.

29th.  At the office all the morning, where Mr. Wren first tells us of the
order from the King, came last night to the Duke of York, for signifying
his pleasure to the Sollicitor-General for drawing up a Commission for
suspending of my Lord Anglesey, and putting in Sir Thomas. Littleton and
Sir Thomas Osborne, the former a creature of Arlington's, and the latter
of the Duke of Buckingham's, during the suspension. The Duke of York was
forced to obey, and did grant it, he being to go to Newmarket this day
with the King, and so the King pressed for it. But Mr. Wren do own that
the Duke of York is the most wounded in this, in the world, for it is done
and concluded without his privity, after his appearing for Lord Anglesey,
and that it is plain that they do ayme to bring the Admiralty into
Commission too, and lessen the Duke of York. This do put strange
apprehensions into all our Board; only I think I am the least troubled at
it, for I care not at all for it: but my Lord Brouncker and Pen do seem to
think much of it.  So home to dinner, full of this news, and after dinner
to the office, and so home all the afternoon to do business towards my
drawing up an account for the Duke of York of the answers of this office
to his late great letter, and late at it, and so to bed, with great peace
from my wife and quiet, I bless God.

30th.  Up betimes; and Mr. Povy comes to even accounts with me, which we
did, and then fell to other talk.  He tells, in short, how the King is
made a child of, by Buckingham and Arlington, to the lessening of the Duke
of York, whom they cannot suffer to be great, for fear of my Lord
Chancellor's return, which, therefore, they make the King violent against.
That he believes it is impossible these two great men can hold together
long: or, at least, that the ambition of the former is so great, that he
will endeavour to master all, and bring into play as many as he can.  That
Anglesey will not lose his place easily, but will contend in law with
whoever comes to execute it.  That the Duke of York, in all things but in
his cod-piece, is led by the nose by his wife.  That W. Coventry is now,
by the Duke of York, made friends with the Duchess; and that he is often
there, and waits on her.  That he do believe that these present great men
will break in time, and that W. Coventry will be a great man again; for he
do labour to have nothing to do in matters of the State, and is so usefull
to the side that he is on, that he will stand, though at present he is
quite out of play.  That my Lady Castlemayne hates the Duke of Buckingham.
That the Duke of York hath expressed himself very kind to my Lord
Sandwich, which I am mighty glad of.  That we are to expect more changes
if these men stand.  This done, he and I to talk of my coach, and I got
him to go see it, where he finds most infinite fault with it, both as to
being out of fashion and heavy, with so good reason that I am mightily
glad of his having corrected me in it; and so I do resolve to have one of
his build, and with his advice, both in coach and horses, he being the
fittest man in the world for it, and so he carried me home, and said the
same to my wife.  So I to the office and he away, and at noon I home to
dinner, and all the afternoon late with Gibson at my chamber about my
present great business, only a little in the afternoon at the office about
Sir D. Gawden's accounts, and so to bed and slept heartily, my wife and I
at good peace, but my heart troubled and her mind not at ease, I perceive,
she against and I for the girle, to whom I have not said anything these
three days, but resolve to be mighty strange in appearance to her.  This
night W. Batelier come and took his leave of us, he setting out for France
to-morrow.

31st.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon home to dinner with
my people, and afternoon to the office again, and then to my chamber with
Gibson to do more about my great answer for the Duke of York, and so at
night after supper to bed well pleased with my advance thereon.  This day
my Lord Anglesey was at the Office, and do seem to make nothing of this
business of his suspension, resolving to bring it into the Council, where
he seems not to doubt to have right, he standing upon his defence and
patent, and hath put in his caveats to the several Offices: so, as soon as
the King comes back again, which will be on Tuesday next, he will bring it
into the Council.  So ends this month with some quiet to my mind, though
not perfect, after the greatest falling out with my poor wife, and through
my folly with the girl, that ever I had, and I have reason to be sorry and
ashamed of it, and more to be troubled for the poor girl's sake, whom I
fear I shall by this means prove the ruin of, though I shall think myself
concerned both to love and be a friend to her.  This day Roger Pepys and
his son Talbot, newly come to town, come and dined with me, and mighty
glad I am to see them.