After the day's work was over, George would drop in at Mr. Pease's, to
talk over the progress of the survey, and discuss various matters
connected with the railway.  Mr. Pease's daughters were usually present;
and on one occasion, finding the young ladies learning the art of
embroidery, he volunteered to instruct them. {131}  "I know all about
it," said he; "and you will wonder how I learnt it.  I will tell you.
When I was a brakesman at Killingworth, I learnt the art of embroidery
while working the pitmen's buttonholes by the engine fire at nights."  He
was never ashamed, but on the contrary rather proud, of reminding his
friends of these humble pursuits of his early life.  Mr. Pease's family
were greatly pleased with his conversation, which was always amusing and
instructive; full of all sorts of experience, gathered in the oddest and
most out-of-the-way places.  Even at that early period, before he mixed
in the society of educated persons, there was a dash of speculativeness
in his remarks, which gave a high degree of originality to his
conversation; and he would sometimes, in a casual remark, throw a flash
of light upon a subject, which called up a train of pregnant suggestions.

One of the most important subjects of discussion at these meetings with
Mr. Pease, was the establishment of a manufactory at Newcastle for the
building of locomotive engines.  Up to this time all the locomotives
constructed after Stephenson's designs, had been made by ordinary
mechanics working among the collieries in the North of England.  But he
had long felt that the accuracy and style of their workmanship admitted
of great improvement, and that upon this the more perfect action of the
locomotive engine, and its general adoption, in a great measure depended.
One great object that he had in view in establishing the proposed factory
was, to concentrate a number of good workmen, for the purpose of carrying
out the improvements in detail which he was constantly making in his
engine.  He felt hampered by the want of efficient help from skilled
mechanics, who could work out in a practical form the ideas of which his
busy mind was always so prolific.  Doubtless, too, he believed that the
manufactory would prove a remunerative investment, and that, on the
general adoption of the railway system which he anticipated, he would
derive solid advantages from the fact of his establishment being the only
one of the kind for the special construction of locomotive engines.

Mr. Pease approved of his design, and strongly recommended him to carry
it into effect.  But there was the question of means; and Stephenson did
not think he had capital enough for the purpose.  He told Mr. Pease that
he could advance 1000 pounds--the amount of the testimonial presented by
the coal-owners for his safety-lamp invention, which he had still left
untouched; but he did not think this sufficient for the purpose, and he
thought that he should require at least another 1000 pounds.  Mr. Pease
had been very much struck with the successful performances of the
Killingworth engine; and being an accurate judge of character, he
believed that he could not go far wrong in linking a portion of his
fortune with the energy and industry of George Stephenson.  He consulted
his friend Thomas Richardson in the matter; and the two consented to
advance 500 pounds each for the purpose of establishing the engine
factory at Newcastle.  A piece of land was accordingly purchased in Forth
Street, in August, 1823, on which a small building was erected--the
nucleus of the gigantic establishment which was afterwards formed around
it; and active operations were begun early in 1824.

While the Stockton and Darlington Railway works were in progress, our
engineer had many interesting discussions with Mr. Pease, on points
connected with its construction and working, the determination of which
in a great measure affected the formation and working of all future
railways.  The most important points were these:

1.  The comparative merits of cast and wrought iron rails.

2.  The gauge of the railway.

3.  The employment of horse or engine power in working it, when ready for
traffic.

The kind of rails to be laid down to form the permanent road was a matter
of considerable importance.  A wooden tramroad had been contemplated when
the first Act was applied for; but Stephenson having advised that an iron
road should be laid down, he was instructed to draw up a specification of
the rails.  He went before the directors to discuss with them the kind of
material to be specified.  He was himself interested in the patent for
cast-iron rails, which he had taken out in conjunction with Mr. Losh in
1816; and, of course, it was to his interest that his articles should be
used.  But when requested to give his opinion on the subject, he frankly
said to the directors, "Well, gentlemen, to tell you the truth, although
it would put 500 pounds in my pocket to specify my own patent rails, I
cannot do so after the experience I have had.  If you take my advice, you
will not lay down a single cast-iron rail."  "Why?" asked the directors.
"Because they will not stand the weight, and you will be at no end of
expense for repairs and relays."  "What kind of road, then," he was
asked, "would you recommend?"  "Malleable rails, certainly," said he;
"and I can recommend them with the more confidence from the fact that at
Killingworth we have had some Swedish bars laid down--nailed to wooden
sleepers--for a period of fourteen years, the waggons passing over them
daily; and there they are, in use yet, whereas the cast rails are
constantly giving way."

The price of malleable rails was, however, so high--being then worth
about 12 pounds per ton as compared with cast-iron rails at about 5
pounds 10s.--and the saving of expense was so important a consideration
with the subscribers, that Stephenson was directed to provide, in the
specification, that only one-half of the rails required--or about 800
tons--should be of malleable iron, and the remainder of cast-iron.  The
malleable rails were of the kind called "fish-bellied," and weighed 28
lbs. to the yard, being 2.25 inches broad at the top, with the upper
flange 0.75 inch thick.  They were only 2 inches in depth at the points
at which they rested on the chairs, and 3.25 inches in the middle or
bellied part.

When forming the road, the proper gauge had also to be determined.  What
width was this to be?  The gauge of the first tramroad laid down had
virtually settled the point.  The gauge of wheels of the common vehicles
of the country--of the carts and waggons employed on common roads, which
were first used on the tramroads--was about 4 feet 8.5 inches.  And so
the first tramroads were laid down of this gauge.  The tools and
machinery for constructing coal-waggons and locomotives were formed with
this gauge in view.  The Wylam waggon-way, afterwards the Wylam
plate-way, the Killingworth railroad, and the Hetton rail road, were as
nearly as possible on the same gauge.  Some of the earth-waggons used to
form the Stockton and Darlington road were brought from the Hetton
railway; and others which were specially constructed were formed of the
same dimensions, these being intended to be afterwards employed in the
working of the traffic.

As the period drew near for the opening of the line, the question of the
tractive power to be employed was anxiously discussed.  At the Brusselton
incline, fixed engines must necessarily be made use of; but with respect
to the mode of working the railway generally, it was decided that horses
were to be largely employed, and arrangements were made for their
purchase.  The influence of Mr. Pease also secured that a fair trial
should be given to the experiment of working the traffic by locomotive
power; and three engines were ordered from the firm of Stephenson and
Co., Newcastle, which were put in hand forthwith, in anticipation of the
opening of the railway.  These were constructed after Mr. Stephenson's
most matured designs, and embodied all the improvements which he had
contrived up to that time.  No. I. engine, the "Locomotion," which was
first delivered, weighed about eight tons.  It had one large flue or tube
through the boiler, by which the heated air passed direct from the
furnace at one end, lined with fire-bricks, to the chimney at the other.
The combustion in the furnace was quickened by the adoption of the
steam-blast in the chimney.  The heat raised was sometimes so great, and
it was so imperfectly abstracted by the surrounding water, that the
chimney became almost red-hot.  Such engines, when put to their speed,
were found capable of running at the rate of from twelve to sixteen miles
an hour; but they were better adapted for the heavy work of hauling
coal-trains at low speeds--for which, indeed, they were specially
constructed--than for running at the higher speeds afterwards adopted.
Nor was it contemplated by the directors as possible, at the time when
they were ordered, that locomotives could be made available for the
purposes of passenger travelling.  Besides, the Stockton and Darlington
Railway did not run through a district in which passengers were supposed
to be likely to constitute any considerable portion of the traffic.

We may easily imagine the anxiety felt by Mr. Stephenson during the
progress of the works towards completion, and his mingled hopes and
doubts (though his doubts were but few) as to the issue of this great
experiment.  When the formation of the line near Stockton was well
advanced, Mr. Stephenson one day, accompanied by his son Robert and John
Dixon, made a journey of inspection of the works.  The party reached
Stockton, and proceeded to dine at one of the inns there.  After dinner,
Stephenson ventured on the very unusual measure of ordering in a bottle
of wine, to drink success to the railway.  John Dixon relates with pride
the utterance of the master on the occasion.  "Now, lads," said he to the
two young men, "I venture to tell you that I think you will live to see
the day when railways will supersede almost all other methods of
conveyance in this country--when mail-coaches will go by railway, and
railroads will become the great highway for the king and all his
subjects.  The time is coming when it will be cheaper for a working man
to travel upon a railway than to walk on foot.  I know there are great
and almost insurmountable difficulties to be encountered; but what I have
said will come to pass as sure as you live.  I only wish I may live to
see the day, though that I can scarcely hope for, as I know how slow all
human progress is, and with what difficulty I have been able to get the
locomotive thus far adopted, notwithstanding my more than ten years'
successful experiment at Killingworth."  The result, however, outstripped
even the most sanguine anticipations of Stephenson; and his son Robert,
shortly after his return from America in 1827, saw his father's
locomotive generally employed as the tractive power on railways.

The Stockton and Darlington line was opened for traffic on the 27th
September, 1825.  An immense concourse of people assembled from all parts
to witness the ceremony of opening this first public railway.  The
powerful opposition which the project had encountered, the threats which
were still uttered against the company by the road-trustees and others,
who declared that they would yet prevent the line being worked, and
perhaps the general unbelief as to its success which still prevailed,
tended to excite the curiosity of the public as to the result.  Some went
to rejoice at the opening, some to see the "bubble burst;" and there were
many prophets of evil who would not miss the blowing up of the boasted
travelling engine.  The opening was, however, auspicious.  The
proceedings commenced at Brusselton Incline, about nine miles above
Darlington, where the fixed engine drew a train of loaded waggons up the
incline from the west, and lowered them on the east side.  At the foot of
the incline a locomotive was in readiness to receive them, Stephenson
himself driving the engine.  The train consisted of six waggons loaded
with coals and flour; after these was the passenger-coach, filled with
the directors and their friends, and then twenty-one waggons fitted up
with temporary seats for passengers; and lastly came six waggon-loads of
coals, making in all a train of thirty-eight vehicles.  The local
chronicler of the day almost went beside himself in describing the
extraordinary event:--"The signal being given," he says, "the engine
started off with this immense train of carriages; and such was its
velocity, that in some parts the speed was frequently 12 miles an hour!"
By the time it reached Stockton there were about 600 persons in the train
or hanging on to the waggons, which must have gone at a safe and steady
pace of from four to six miles an hour from Darlington.  "The arrival at
Stockton," it is added, "excited a deep interest and admiration."

The working of the line then commenced, and the results were such as to
surprise even the most sanguine of its projectors.  The traffic upon
which they had formed their estimates of profit proved to be small in
comparison with that which flowed in upon them which they had never
dreamt of.  Thus, what the company had principally relied upon for their
receipts was the carriage of coals for land sale at the stations along
the line, whereas the haulage of coals to the seaports for exportation to
the London market was not contemplated as possible.  When the bill was
before Parliament, Mr. Lambton (afterwards Earl of Durham) succeeded in
getting a clause inserted, limiting the charge for the haulage of all
coal to Stockton-on-Tees for the purpose of shipment to 0.5d. per ton per
mile; whereas a rate of 4d. per ton was allowed to be taken for all coals
led upon the railway for land sale.  Mr. Lambton's object in enforcing
the low rate of 0.5d. was to protect his own trade in coal exported from
Sunderland and the northern ports.  He believed, in common with everybody
else, that the 0.5d. rate would effectually secure him against
competition on the part of the Company; for it was not considered
possible to lead coals at that price, and the proprietors of the railway
themselves considered that such a rate would be utterly ruinous.  The
projectors never contemplated sending more than 10,000 tons a year to
Stockton, and those only for shipment as ballast; they looked for their
profits almost exclusively to the land sale.  The result, however, was as
surprising to them as it must have been to Mr. Lambton.  The 0.5d. rate
which was forced upon them, instead of being ruinous, proved the vital
element in the success of the railway.  In the course of a few years, the
annual shipment of coal, led by the Stockton and Darlington Railway to
Stockton and Middlesborough, was more than 500,000 tons; and it has since
far exceeded this amount.  Instead of being, as anticipated, a
subordinate branch of traffic, it proved, in fact, the main traffic,
while the land sale was merely subsidiary.

The anticipations of the company as to passenger traffic were in like
manner more than realised.  At first, passengers were not thought of; and
it was only while the works were in progress that the starting of a
passenger coach was seriously contemplated.  The number of persons
travelling between the two towns was very small; and it was not known
whether these would risk their persons upon the iron road.  It was
determined, however, to make trial of a railway coach; and Mr. Stephenson
was authorised to have one built at Newcastle, at the cost of the
company.  This was done accordingly; and the first railway passenger
carriage was built after our engineer's design.  It was, however, a very
modest, and indeed a somewhat uncouth machine, more resembling the
caravans still to be seen at country fairs containing the "Giant and the
Dwarf" and other wonders of the world, than a passenger-coach of any
extant form.  A row of seats ran along each side of the interior, and a
long deal table was fixed in the centre; the access being by means of a
door at the back end, in the manner of an omnibus.

                    [Picture: The First Railway Coach]

This coach arrived from Newcastle the day before the opening, and formed
part of the railway procession above described.  Mr. Stephenson was
consulted as to the name of the coach, and he at once suggested "The
Experiment;" and by this name it was called.  The Company's arms were
afterwards painted on her side, with the motto "Periculum privatum
utilitas publica."  Such was the sole passenger-carrying stock of the
Stockton and Darlington Company in the year 1825.  But the "Experiment"
proved the forerunner of a mighty traffic: and long time did not elapse
before it was displaced, not only by improved coaches (still drawn by
horses), but afterwards by long trains of passenger-carriages drawn by
locomotive engines.

"The Experiment" was fairly started as a passenger-coach on the 10th
October, 1825, a fortnight after the opening of the line.  It was drawn
by one horse, and performed a journey daily each way between the two
towns, accomplishing the distance of twelve miles in about two hours.
The fare charged was a shilling without distinction of class; and each
passenger was allowed fourteen pounds of luggage free.  "The Experiment"
was not, however, worked by the company, but was let to contractors who
worked it under an arrangement whereby toll was paid for the use of the
line, rent of booking-cabins, etc.

The speculation answered so well, that several private coaching companies
were shortly after got up by innkeepers at Darlington and Stockton, for
the purpose of running other coaches upon the railroad; and an active
competition for passenger traffic sprang up.  "The Experiment" being
found too heavy for one horse to draw, besides being found an
uncomfortable machine, was banished to the coal district.  Its place was
then supplied by other and better vehicles,--though they were no other
than old stage-coach bodies purchased by the company, and each mounted
upon an underframe with flange-wheels.  These were let on hire to the
coaching companies, who horsed and managed them under an arrangement as
to tolls, in like manner as the "Experiment" had been worked.  Now began
the distinction of inside and outside passengers, equivalent to first and
second class, paying different fares.  The competition with each other
upon the railway, and with the ordinary stagecoaches upon the road, soon
brought up the speed, which was increased to ten miles an hour--the
mail-coach rate of travelling in those days, and considered very fast.

