Men should not start from camp thirsty, but should drink all
the water they want immediately after breakfast. All canteens
should be filled before marching, one man in each squad being
detailed to fill the canteens for his squad.

At assembly for the march the men fall in in rear or the stacks
fully equipped for marching.


SECTION 2. MARCHING.

The principal work of troops in the field consists of marching.
Battles take place only at indefinite intervals, but marches are
of daily occurrence. It is only by good marching that troops
can arrive at a given point at a given time and in good condition
for battle.

The rate of march depends greatly upon the condition of the roads
and the weather, but the average rate for infantry is about 2-1/2
miles per hour. This allows for a rest of 10 minutes each hour.
The total distance marched in a day depends not only on the rate
of march, but upon the size of the command, large commands often
covering only about 10 miles a day, while small commands easily
cover double that distance.

In order to make the march with the greatest comfort and the
least danger, it is necessary that each unit be kept well in
hand. Each man is permitted and encouraged to make himself as
comfortable as possible at all times, excepting only that he
must not interfere with the comfort of others or with the march
of the column.

Infantry generally marches in column of squads, but on narrow
roads or trails column of twos or files is used. The route step is
habitually used when silence is not required. In large commands,
in order that the column be kept in hand, it is very necessary that
each man keep his place in ranks and follow his file leader at the
prescribed distance. This is one of the best tests for determining
the discipline and efficiency of troops. The equipment should
be carefully adjusted before starting out, and any part that is
not comfortable should be rearranged at the first opportunity.
The rifle is carried at will, except that the muzzle must be
pointed up so as not to interfere with the other men.

Under no circumstances will any man leave the ranks without
permission from his company or higher commander. If the absence
is to be for more than a short while, he must be given a pass
showing his name, rank, and organization, and the reason he is
permitted to be absent. If sick, it is better to wait by the
roadside at some comfortable place for the arrival of the surgeon
or the ambulance. In any case, the soldier keeps his rifle and
equipment with him, if possible. Soldiers absent from their
organization without a pass will be arrested and returned to their
command for punishment.

Marches in hot weather are particularly trying. Green leaves or
a damp cloth carried in the hat lessens the chance of sunstroke.
The hat should have ventilators, and when not exposed to the
direct rays of the sun it should be removed from the head. It
is well to keep the clothing about the neck and throat open,
and sometimes to turn up the shirt sleeves so as to leave the
wrists free.

The canteen should always be filled before starting out. Use
the water very sparingly. None at all should be drunk during
the first three or four hours of the march. After that take only
a few mouthfuls at a time and wash out the mouth and throat.
Except possibly in very hot weather, one canteen of water should
last for the entire day's march. Excessive water drinking on
the march will play a man out very quickly. Old soldiers never
drink when marching. A small pebble carried in the mouth keeps it
moist and therefore reduces thirst. Or a small piece of chocolate
may occasionally be eaten. Smoking is very depressing during a
march.

Canteens will not be refilled on the march without authority
from an officer, as the clearest water, whether from a well,
spring, or running stream, may be very impure and the source of
many camp diseases. If canteens are to be refilled, it should be
done by order, and a detail is generally made for this purpose.

Entering upon private property without permission, or stealing
fruit, etc., from gardens and orchards, is a serious military
offense, as well as a violation of the civil laws.

When a cooked meal is carried, it should not be eaten until the
proper time.

A command ordinarily marches for 50 minutes and halts for 10
minutes. The first halt in a day's march is for about 15 minutes,
is made after about 30 minutes' marching, and is for the express
purpose of allowing the men to relieve themselves. Men who wish
to do this should attend to it at once and not wait until the
command is almost ready to march again.

At every halt get all the rest possible and don't spend the time
wandering around or standing about. Only green recruits do this.
If the ground is dry, stretch out at full length, removing the
pack or blanket roll and belt, and get in as comfortable position
as possible. The next best way is to sit down with a good back
rest against a tree or a fence or some other object. Never sit
down or lie down, however, on wet or damp ground. Sit on your
pack or blanket roll, or on anything else that is dry. At a halt
it is very refreshing to adjust the underclothing.


SECTION 3. MAKING CAMP.

On reaching the camp site the men should be allowed to fall out
and rest as soon as the arms have been stacked and the shelter
tents pitched. If the blanket rolls have been carried on the
wagons, then the location of the front poles of the shelter tents
should be marked before they are allowed to fall out. The men
will not be allowed to relieve themselves until sinks are dug.
Temporary sinks may be dug with intrenching tools, if carried.
A guard should be placed over the water supply at once.

As soon as the shelter tents are pitched the company proceeds
to the remainder of the camp work in accordance with a permanent
assignment similar to the following:

One squad helps arrange the kitchen.

One squad pitches the officers' tents.

One squad digs the sink.

One squad procures wood and water.

One squad is held available for details from regimental headquarters.

The officers and first sergeant supervise the work.

The sinks are located by the commanding officer. The detail to
dig them should wait until informed of the location. An officer
should inspect the sink as soon as the detail reports it as
completed.

After the camp has been put in order the first sergeant makes
the details from roster for kitchen police and noncommissioned
officer in charge of quarters for the next day and for such guard
as may be ordered for that day.

The details called for by regimental headquarters for pitching
the headquarters camp for the quartermaster, etc., should be
reported to the adjutant without delay.

The cooks pitch their tent at that end of the company street
nearest the kitchen. Space must be left for this tent if the
cooks are not in ranks when the company pitches tents. Unless
lunch has been carried or cooked during the march, the cooks
should get to work on a hot meal as soon as possible. The kitchen
police report at the kitchen as soon as their tent is pitched.
Wood and water will be required at once.

Officers should avoid keeping the men unnecessarily under arms
or on their feet after a hard day's march.

When the details of making camp have been completed, all men
should at once care for their rifles and feet. (For details as
to the care of the rifle see Chapter II Section 1, for the care
of the feet see Chapter IV.)


SECTION 4. CAMP SERVICE AND DUTIES.

In camp "Reveille" is preceded by "First call," and a march played
by the band or field music, and is followed immediately by
"Assembly." If there is a reveille gun, it is fired at the first
note of the march and is the signal for all to arise. The roll
is called at the last notes of assembly after reveille. At this
formation men should fall in in the proper uniform--rifle and
belt, service hat, olive-drab flannel shirt, service breeches,
leggings, and shoes. The regimental commander may prescribe that
coats are to be worn and will prescribe the exact uniform for
all drills, parades, and other formations, as well as for men
going on pass.

Immediately after reveille roll call the sergeant next in rank
to the first sergeant takes command of the company and deploys
it for a general police of the camp within the limits assigned
to the company. Men pick up all scraps of paper and rubbish of
all kinds, depositing it in the company incinerator or place
designated for the purpose. The police limits of each company
are usually designated as extending from head to rear of camp
within the space occupied by the company street, including the
ground occupied by the tents of the company, no unassigned space
being left between companies.

Immediately after breakfast men police their tents and raise
walls of same. If the day is fair, all bedding should be spread
on the tents for several hours' airing.

At sick call all men who are sick fall in and are marched to
the regimental infirmary, under charge of the noncommissioned
officer in charge of quarters. The noncommissioned officer takes
with him the company sick report previously filled in and signed
by the company commander. The surgeon examines all those reporting
and indicates their status on the sick report. This status may be
"Duty" (available for all duty), "Quarters" (patient to remain
in tent or company street), and "Hospital" (patient to be sent
to the hospital). The noncommissioned officer then returns to
the company with all the men not marked "Hospital" and hands
the sick report to the first sergeant.

At "Drill call" the company prepares for drill and falls in so
that it will be completely formed at assembly, which is usually
sounded 10 minutes after drill call. All men are required to attend
drill except those excused by sick report and those specially
excused from headquarters. The excused list should include in each
company only the mess sergeant, the two cooks, one kitchen police,
and men on regimental guard. During drill hours the guard to be
excused should be limited to a small patrol to guard against
fire and thieves in camp.

If the bedding has been aired, it should be taken in immediately
after drill and placed in the tents neatly folded.

Some time during the morning, at a time designated by him, the
company commander inspects the entire company camp. At this
inspection the entire street should be policed, kitchen in order,
and tents policed, as follows:

In permanent camp, when pyramidal, conical, or wall tents are
used: Bedding folded neatly and placed on the head of the cot.
(If bed sacks are used, they will be folded in three folds and
the bedding placed on top.) Hats on top of the bedding. Shoes
under foot of cot. Surplus kit bag at side of squad leader's
cot. Equipment suspended neatly from a frame arranged around
the tent pole. Rifles in rack constructed around the tent pole.

In shelter-tent camp: Bedding neatly folded and placed at rear
of tent, ponchos underneath. Equipment arranged on the bedding.
Rifles laid on bedding except when used as tent poles.

The regimental commander prescribes the exact scheme to be followed
in the police of tents.

Should there be no parade, retreat roll call is held at the same
hour. This roll call is under arms and is supervised by an officer
of the company. After the roll call and at the sounding of "Retreat,"
the officer brings the company to parade rest and keeps it in
this position during the sounding of this call. At the first
note of the National Anthem ("The Star-Spangled Banner") or "To
the Color" the company is brought to attention and so stands
until the end of the playing. The officer then reports the result
of the roll call to the adjutant or officer of the day, returns
to the company, inspects the arms, and dismisses it.

At the sounding of "Call to quarters" all men will repair to their
company street.

After taps has sounded all talking must cease and all lights must
be extinguished, and so remain until first call for reveille.

In camp all enlisted men are prohibited from crossing the officers'
street, or from visiting officers' tents unless actually engaged
in some duty requiring them to do so, or sent for by an officer.

Men are not allowed to leave camp without a pass signed by the
company commander and countersigned by the regimental adjutant.
The first sergeant is sometimes allowed to give men permission
to leave camp from retreat to taps.

The noncommissioned officer in charge of quarters, detailed for
24 hours goes on duty each day at reveille. He is responsible
that the grounds around the company are kept in proper police;
that no loud noise, disturbance, or disorder occurs in the company
street; that men confined to the company street do not leave
the same without proper authority. He reports men who are sick
to the surgeon. He may be required to report all other details
called for. He accompanies the captain in his daily inspection
of the company. He will not leave the company street during his
tour of duty except as provided above.

One or two privates are detailed daily as kitchen police. They
go on duty at reveille. It is their duty to assist the cooks in
the kitchen. They assist in the preparation of meals, wait on
the table, wash dishes, procure water and wood, chop firewood,
and keep the kitchen, mess tent, and surrounding ground policed.
They are under the orders of the mess sergeant and the cooks.

Rifles need careful attention in camp. They should be cleaned
and oiled daily, preferably just before retreat or parade. It
is advisable for each man to have a canvas cover to keep off
the dust and dampness. In a shelter-tent camp tie the rifle,
muzzle up, to the pole of the tent, placing a chip of wood under
the butt plate and an oily rag over (never inside) the muzzle.

Wet shoes should be filled with oats or dry sand, and set in a
cool place to dry. Never dry them by a fire.

Uniforms need special care, as camp service is very hard on them.
In a permanent camp every man should have two pair of breeches.
The coat will seldom be worn except at parade or retreat. One
pair of breeches and the coat should be kept neat, clean, and
pressed for use on ceremonies, inspections, and when going on
pass. Woolen uniforms may be cleaned and freed from spots by
rubbing with a flannel rag saturated with gasoline. Cotton uniforms
may be washed with water, soap, and a scrubbing brush, wrung
out, and stretched, properly creased, on a flat wood surface in
the sun to dry. Leggings can be similarly washed. Hats should
be cleaned with gasoline, and dampened and ironed to restore
their shape.

Enlisted men should be very careful to observe all the sanitary
regulations of the camp. Flies are the greatest spreaders of camp
disease. All fecal matter and food should be carefully guarded from
them. In camps extreme precautions are taken to screen the sinks
and kitchens from flies, and all enlisted men should cooperate in
the effort to make these precautions successful. One fly carrying
germs on his feet from the sinks to the food can start a serious
and fatal epidemic in a camp. Defecating on the ground in the
vicinity of camp or urinating in camp are extremely dangerous
to the health of the command, and are serious military offenses.
At night a urinal can is provided in each company street.

