Few hunting men calculate how much they owe to the hunting farmer, or
recognize the fact that hunting farmers contribute more than any other
class of sportsmen towards the maintenance of the sport. It is hardly
too much to say that hunting would be impossible if farmers did not
hunt. If they were inimical to hunting, and men so closely concerned
must be friends or enemies, there would be no foxes left alive; and
no fox, if alive, could be kept above ground. Fences would be
impracticable, and damages would be ruinous; and any attempt to maintain
the institution of hunting would be a long warfare in which the opposing
farmer would certainly be the ultimate conqueror. What right has the
hunting man who goes down from London, or across from Manchester, to
ride over the ground which he treats as if it were his own, and to which
he thinks that free access is his undoubted privilege? Few men, I
fancy, reflect that they have no such right, and no such privilege, or
recollect that the very scene and area of their exercise, the land that
makes hunting possible to them, is contributed by the farmer. Let any
one remember with what tenacity the exclusive right of entering upon
their small territories is clutched and maintained by all cultivators in
other countries; let him remember the enclosures of France, the vine and
olive terraces of Tuscany, or the narrowly-watched fields of Lombardy;
the little meadows of Switzerland on which no stranger's foot is allowed
to come, or the Dutch pastures, divided by dykes, and made safe from all
intrusions. Let him talk to the American farmer of English hunting, and
explain to that independent, but somewhat prosaic husbandman, that in
England two or three hundred men claim the right of access to every
man's land during the whole period of the winter months! Then, when he
thinks of this, will he realize to himself what it is that the English
farmer contributes to hunting in England? The French countryman cannot
be made to understand it. You cannot induce him to believe that if
he held land in England, looking to make his rent from tender young
grass-fields and patches of sprouting corn, he would be powerless to
keep out intruders, if those intruders came in the shape of a rushing
squadron of cavalry, and called themselves a hunt. To him, in accordance
with his existing ideas, rural life under such circumstances would be
impossible. A small pan of charcoal, and an honourable death-bed, would
give him relief after his first experience of such an invasion.

Nor would the English farmer put up with the invasion, if the English
farmer were not himself a hunting man. Many farmers, doubtless, do not
hunt, and they bear it, with more or less grace; but they are inured to
it from their infancy, because it is in accordance with the habits and
pleasures of their own race. Now and again, in every hunt, some man
comes up, who is, indeed, more frequently a small proprietor new to the
glories of ownership, than a tenant farmer, who determines to vindicate
his rights and oppose the field. He puts up a wire-fence round his
domain, thus fortifying himself, as it were, in his citadel, and defies
the world around him. It is wonderful how great is the annoyance which
one such man may give, and how thoroughly he may destroy the comfort of
the coverts in his neighbourhood. But, strong as such an one is in his
fortress, there are still the means of fighting him. The farmers around
him, if they be hunting men, make the place too hot to hold him. To them
he is a thing accursed, a man to be spoken of with all evil language,
as one who desires to get more out of his land than Providence, that is,
than an English Providence, has intended. Their own wheat is exposed,
and it is abominable to them that the wheat of another man should be
more sacred than theirs.

All this is not sufficiently remembered by some of us when the period
of the year comes which is trying to the farmer's heart, when the young
clover is growing, and the barley has been just sown. Farmers, as
a rule, do not think very much of their wheat. When such riding is
practicable, of course they like to see men take the headlands and
furrows; but their hearts are not broken by the tracks of horses across
their wheat-fields. I doubt, indeed, whether wheat is ever much injured
by such usage. But let the thoughtful rider avoid the new-sown barley;
and, above all things, let him give a wide berth to the new-laid meadows
of artificial grasses. They are never large, and may always be shunned.
To them the poaching of numerous horses is absolute destruction. The
surface of such enclosures should be as smooth as a billiard-table, so
that no water may lie in holes; and, moreover, any young plant cut by a
horse's foot is trodden out of existence. Farmers do see even this done,
and live through it without open warfare; but they should not be put to
such trials of temper or pocket too often.

And now for my friend the hunting farmer in person, the sportsman whom I
always regard as the most indispensable adjunct to the field, to whom I
tender my spare cigar with the most perfect expression of my good will.
His dress is nearly always the same. He wears a thick black coat, dark
brown breeches, and top boots, very white in colour, or of a very dark
mahogany, according to his taste. The hunting farmer of the old school
generally rides in a chimney-pot hat; but, in this particular, the
younger brethren of the plough are leaving their old habits, and running
into caps, net hats, and other innovations which, I own, are somewhat
distasteful to me. And there is, too, the ostentatious farmer, who rides
in scarlet, signifying thereby that he subscribes his ten or fifteen
guineas to the hunt fund. But here, in this paper, it is not of him I
speak. He is a man who is so much less the farmer, in that he is the
more an ordinary man of the ordinary world. The farmer whom we have now
before us shall wear the old black coat, and the old black hat, and the
white top boots, rather daubed in their whiteness; and he shall be the
genuine farmer of the old school.

My friend is generally a modest man in the field, seldom much given to
talking unless he be first addressed; and then he prefers that you shall
take upon yourself the chief burden of the conversation. But on certain
hunting subjects he has his opinion, indeed, a very strong opinion, and
if you can drive him from that, your eloquence must be very great. He is
very urgent about special coverts, and even as to special foxes; and
you will often find smouldering in his bosom, if you dive deep enough to
search for it, a half-smothered fire of indignation against the master
because the country has, according to our friend's views, been drawn
amiss. In such matters the farmer is generally right; but he is slow to
communicate his ideas, and does not recognize the fact that other men
have not the same opportunities for observation which belong to him. A
master, however, who understands his business will generally consult a
farmer; and he will seldom, I think, or perhaps never, consult any one
else.

Always shake hands with your friend the farmer. It puts him at his ease
with you, and he will tell you more willingly after that ceremony what
are his ideas about the wind, and what may be expected of the day.
His day's hunting is to him a solemn thing, and he gives to it all his
serious thought. If any man can predicate anything of the run of a fox,
it is the farmer.

I had almost said that if any one knew anything of scent, it is the
farmer; but of scent I believe that not even the farmer knows anything.
But he knows very much as to the lie of the country, and should my
gentle reader by chance have taken a glass or two of wine above ordinary
over night, the effect of which will possibly be a temporary distaste
to straight riding, no one's knowledge as to the line of the lanes is so
serviceable as that of the farmer.

As to riding, there is the ambitious farmer and the unambitious farmer;
the farmer who rides hard, that is, ostensibly hard, and the farmer who
is simply content to know where the hounds are, and to follow them at
a distance which shall maintain him in that knowledge. The ambitious
farmer is not the hunting farmer in his normal condition; he is either
one who has an eye to selling his horse, and, riding with that view,
loses for the time his position as farmer; or he is some exceptional
tiller of the soil who probably is dangerously addicted to hunting as
another man is addicted to drinking; and you may surmise respecting him
that things will not go well with him after a year or two. The friend
of my heart is the farmer who rides, but rides without sputtering; who
never makes a show of it, but still is always there; who feels it to be
no disgrace to avoid a run of fences when his knowledge tells him that
this may be done without danger of his losing his place. Such an one
always sees a run to the end. Let the pace have been what it may, he is
up in time to see the crowd of hounds hustling for their prey, and to
take part in the buzz of satisfaction which the prosperity of the run
has occasioned. But the farmer never kills his horse, and seldom rides
him even to distress. He is not to be seen loosing his girths, or
looking at the beast's flanks, or examining his legs to ascertain what
mischances may have occurred. He takes it all easily, as men always take
matters of business in which they are quite at home. At the end of the
run he sits mounted as quietly as he did at the meet, and has none
of that appearance of having done something wonderful, which on such
occasions is so very strong in the faces of the younger portion of the
pink brigade. To the farmer his day's hunting is very pleasant, and by
habit is even very necessary; but it comes in its turn like market-day,
and produces no extraordinary excitement. He does not rejoice over an
hour and ten minutes with a kill in the open, as he rejoices when he
has returned to Parliament the candidate who is pledged to repeal of the
malt-tax; for the farmer of whom we are speaking now, though he rides
with constancy, does not ride with enthusiasm.

O fortunati sua si bona norint farmers of England! Who in the town is
the farmer's equal? What is the position which his brother, his uncle,
his cousin holds? He is a shopkeeper, who never has a holiday, and does
not know what to do with it when it comes to him; to whom the fresh air
of heaven is a stranger; who lives among sugars and oils, and the dust
of shoddy, and the size of new clothing. Should such an one take to
hunting once a week, even after years of toil, men would point their
fingers at him and whisper among themselves that he was as good as
ruined. His friends would tell him of his wife and children; and,
indeed, would tell him truly, for his customers would fly from him.
But nobody grudges the farmer his day's sport! No one thinks that he is
cruel to his children and unjust to his wife because he keeps a nag for
his amusement, and can find a couple of days in the week to go among his
friends. And with what advantages he does this! A farmer will do as much
with one horse, will see as much hunting, as an outside member of
the hunt will do with four, and, indeed, often more. He is his own
head-groom, and has no scruple about bringing his horse out twice a
week. He asks no livery-stable keeper what his beast can do, but tries
the powers of the animal himself, and keeps in his breast a correct
record. When the man from London, having taken all he can out of his
first horse, has ridden his second to a stand-still, the farmer trots up
on his stout, compact cob, without a sign of distress. He knows that the
condition of a hunter and a greyhound should not be the same, and that
his horse, to be in good working health, should carry nearly all the
hard flesh that he can put upon him. How such an one must laugh in his
sleeve at the five hunters of the young swell who, after all, is brought
to grief in the middle of the season, because he has got nothing to
ride! A farmer's horse is never lame, never unfit to go, never throws
out curbs, never breaks down before or behind. Like his master, he is
never showy. He does not paw, and prance, and arch his neck, and bid the
world admire his beauties; but, like his master, he is useful; and when
he is wanted, he can always do his work.

O fortunatus nimium agricola, who has one horse, and that a good one, in
the middle of a hunting country!


THE MAN WHO HUNTS AND NEVER JUMPS.

The British public who do not hunt believe too much in the jumping of
those who do. It is thought by many among the laity that the hunting
man is always in the air, making clear flights over five-barred gates,
six-foot walls, and double posts and rails, at none of which would the
average hunting man any more think of riding than he would at a small
house. We used to hear much of the Galway Blazers, and it was supposed
that in County Galway a stiff-built wall six feet high was the sort of
thing that you customarily met from field to field when hunting in that
comfortable county. Such little impediments were the ordinary food of a
real Blazer, who was supposed to add another foot of stonework and a sod
of turf when desirous of making himself conspicuous in his moments of
splendid ambition. Twenty years ago I rode in Galway now and then, and
I found the six-foot walls all shorn of their glory, and that men whose
necks were of any value were very anxious to have some preliminary
knowledge of the nature of the fabric, whether for instance it might
be solid or built of loose stones, before they trusted themselves to
an encounter with a wall of four feet and a half. And here, in England,
history, that nursing mother of fiction, has given hunting men honours
which they here never fairly earned. The traditional five-barred gate
is, as a rule, used by hunting men as it was intended to be used by the
world at large; that is to say, they open it; and the double posts and
rails which look so very pretty in the sporting pictures, are thought to
be very ugly things whenever an idea of riding at them presents itself.
It is well that mothers should know, mothers full of fear for their boys
who are beginning, that the necessary jumping of the hunting field is
not after all of so very tremendous a nature; and it may be well also to
explain to them and to others that many men hunt with great satisfaction
to themselves who never by any chance commit themselves to the peril of
a jump, either big or little.

And there is much excellent good sense in the mode of riding adopted by
such gentlemen. Some men ride for hunting, some for jumping, and some
for exercise; some, no doubt, for all three of these things. Given a
man with a desire for the latter, no taste for the second, and some
partiality for the first, and he cannot do better than ride in the
manner I am describing. He may be sure that he will not find himself
alone; and he may be sure also that he will incur none of that ridicule
which the non-hunting man is disposed to think must be attached to such
a pursuit. But the man who hunts and never jumps, who deliberately makes
up his mind that he will amuse himself after that fashion, must always
remember his resolve, and be true to the conduct which he has laid down
for himself. He must jump not at all. He must not jump a little, when
some spurt or spirit may move him, or he will infallibly find himself in
trouble. There was an old Duke of Beaufort who was a keen and practical
sportsman, a master of hounds, and a known Nimrod on the face of the
earth; but he was a man who hunted and never jumped. His experience was
perfect, and he was always true to his resolution. Nothing ever tempted
him to cross the smallest fence. He used to say of a neighbour of his,
who was not so constant, "Jones is an ass. Look at him now. There he is,
and he can't get out. Jones doesn't like jumping, but he jumps a little,
and I see him pounded every day. I never jump at all, and I'm always
free to go where I like." The Duke was certainly right, and Jones was
certainly wrong. To get into a field, and then to have no way of getting
out of it, is very uncomfortable. As long as you are on the road you
have a way open before you to every spot on the world's surface, open,
or capable of being opened; or even if incapable of being opened, not
positively detrimental to you as long as you are on the right side. But
that feeling of a prison under the open air is very terrible, and is
rendered almost agonizing by the prisoner's consciousness that his
position is the result of his own imprudent temerity, of an audacity
which falls short of any efficacious purpose. When hounds are running,
the hunting man should always, at any rate, be able to ride on, to ride
in some direction, even though it be in a wrong direction. He can then
flatter himself that he is riding wide and making a line for himself.
But to be entrapped into a field without any power of getting out of it;
to see the red backs of the forward men becoming smaller and smaller in
the distance, till the last speck disappears over some hedge; to see the
fence before you and know that it is too much for you; to ride round and
round in an agony of despair which is by no means mute, and at last to
give sixpence to some boy to conduct you back into the road; that is
wretched: that is real unhappiness. I am, therefore, very persistent in
my advice to the man who purposes to hunt without jumping. Let him not
jump at all. To jump, but only to jump a little, is fatal. Let him think
of Jones.

The man who hunts and doesn't jump, presuming him not to be a duke or
any man greatly established as a Nimrod in the hunting world, generally
comes out in a black coat and a hat, so that he may not be specially
conspicuous in his deviations from the line of the running. He began his
hunting probably in search of exercise, but has gradually come to add a
peculiar amusement to that pursuit; and of a certain phase of hunting he
at last learns more than most of those who ride closest to the hounds.
He becomes wonderfully skillful in surmising the line which a fox may
probably take, and in keeping himself upon roads parallel to the ruck
of the horsemen. He is studious of the wind, and knows to a point of
the compass whence it is blowing. He is intimately conversant with every
covert in the country; and, beyond this, is acquainted with every earth
in which foxes have had their nurseries, or are likely to locate them.
He remembers the drains on the different farms in which the hunted
animal may possible take refuge, and has a memory even for rabbit-holes.
His eye becomes accustomed to distinguish the form of a moving horseman
over half-a-dozen fields; and let him see but a cap of any leading man,
and he will know which way to turn himself. His knowledge of the country
is correct to a marvel. While the man who rides straight is altogether
ignorant of his whereabouts, and will not even distinguish the woods
through which he has ridden scores of times, the man who rides and never
jumps always knows where he is with the utmost accuracy. Where parish is
divided from parish and farm from farm, has been a study to him; and he
has learned the purpose and bearing of every lane. He is never thrown
out, and knows the nearest way from every point to point. If there be a
line of gates across from one road to another he will use them, but he
will commit himself to a line of gates on the land of no farmer who uses
padlocks.

As he trots along the road, occasionally breaking into a gallop when he
perceives from some sign known to him that the hunt is turning from him,
he is generally accompanied by two or three unfortunates who have lost
their way and have straggled from the hounds; and to them he is a
guide, philosopher, and friend. He is good-natured for the moment, and
patronizes the lost ones. He informs them that they are at last in the
right way, and consoles them by assurances that they have lost nothing.

"The fox broke, you know, from the sharp corner of Granby-wood," he
says; "the only spot that the crowd had left for him. I saw him come
out, standing on the bridge in the road. Then he ran up-wind as far
as Green's barn." "Of course he did," says one of the unfortunates
who thinks he remembers something of a barn in the early part of the
performance. "I was with the three or four first as far as that." "There
were twenty men before the hounds there," says our man of the road, who
is not without a grain of sarcasm, and can use it when he is strong
on his own ground. "Well, he turned there, and ran back very near the
corner; but he was headed by a sheep-dog, luckily, and went to the left
across the brook." "Ah, that's where I lost them," says one unfortunate.
"I was with them miles beyond that," says another. "There were five or
six men rode the brook," continues our philosopher, who names the four
or five, not mentioning the unfortunate who had spoken last as having
been among the number. "Well; then he went across by Ashby Grange,
and tried the drain at the back of the farmyard, but Bootle had had it
stopped. A fox got in there one day last March, and Bootle always stops
it since that. So he had to go on, and he crossed the turnpike close
by Ashby Church. I saw him cross, and the hounds were then full five
minutes behind him. He went through Frolic Wood, but he didn't hang a
minute, and right up the pastures to Morley Hall." "That's where I was
thrown out," says the unfortunate who had boasted before, and who is
still disposed to boast a little. But our philosopher assures him that
he has not in truth been near Morley Hall; and when the unfortunate one
makes an attempt to argue, puts him down thoroughly. "All I can say is,
you couldn't have been there and be here too at this moment. Morley Hall
is a mile and a half to our right, and now they're coming round to the
Linney. He'll go into the little wood there, and as there isn't as much
as a nutshell open for him, they'll kill him there. It'll have been a
tidy little thing, but not very fast. I've hardly been out of a trot
yet, but we may as well move on now." Then he breaks into an easy canter
by the side of the road, while the unfortunates, who have been rolling
among the heavy-ploughed ground in the early part of the day, make vain
efforts to ride by his side. They keep him, however, in sight, and are
comforted; for he is a man with a character, and knows what he is about.
He will never be utterly lost, and as long as they can remain in his
company they will not be subjected to that dreadful feeling of absolute
failure which comes upon an inexperienced sportsman when he finds
himself quite alone, and does not know which way to turn himself.

A man will not learn to ride after this fashion in a day, nor yet in
a year. Of all fashions of hunting it requires, perhaps, the most
patience, the keenest observation, the strongest memory, and the
greatest efforts of intellect. But the power, when achieved, has its
triumph; it has its respect, and it has its admirers. Our friend, while
he was guiding the unfortunates on the road, knew his position, and rode
for a while as though he were a chief of men. He was the chief of men
there. He was doing what he knew how to do, and was not failing. He had
made no boasts which stern facts would afterwards disprove. And when
he rode up slowly to the wood-side, having from a distance heard the
huntsman's whoop that told him of the fox's fate, he found that he had
been right in every particular. No one at that moment knows the line
they have all ridden as well as he knows it. But now, among the crowd,
when men are turning their horses' heads to the wind, and loud questions
are being asked, and false answers are being given, and the ambitious
men are congratulating themselves on their deeds, he sits by listening
in sardonic silence. "Twelve miles of ground !" he says to himself,
repeating the words of some valiant youngster; "if it's eight, I'll eat
it." And then when he hears, for he is all ear as well as all eye, when
he hears a slight boast from one of his late unfortunate companions, a
first small blast of the trumpet which will become loud anon if it be
not checked, he smiles inwardly, and moralizes on the weakness of human
nature. But the man who never jumps is not usually of a benevolent
nature, and it is almost certain that he will make up a little story
against the boaster.

Such is the amusement of the man who rides and never jumps. Attached to
every hunt there will be always one or two such men. Their evidence is
generally reliable; their knowledge of the country is not to be doubted;
they seldom come to any severe trouble; and have usually made for
themselves a very wide circle of hunting acquaintances by whom they
are quietly respected. But I think that men regard them as they do the
chaplain on board a man-of-war, or as they would regard a herald on
a field of battle. When men are assembled for fighting, the man who
notoriously does not fight must feel himself to be somewhat lower than
his brethren around him, and must be so esteemed by others.


THE HUNTING PARSON.

I feel some difficulty in dealing with the character I am now about
to describe. The world at large is very prone to condemn the hunting
parson, regarding him as a man who is false to his profession; and, for
myself, I am not prepared to say that the world is wrong. Had my pastors
and masters, my father and mother, together with the other outward
circumstances of my early life, made a clergyman of me, I think that I
should not have hunted, or at least, I hope that I might have abstained;
and yet, for the life of me, I cannot see the reason against it, or tell
any man why a clergyman should not ride to hounds. In discussing the
subject, and I often do discuss it, the argument against the practice
which is finally adopted, the argument which is intended to be
conclusive, simply amounts to this, that a parish clergyman who does
his duty cannot find the time. But that argument might be used with much
more truth against other men of business, against those to whose hunting
the world takes no exception. Indeed, of all men, the ordinary parish
clergyman, is, perhaps, the least liable to such censure. He lives in
the country, and can hunt cheaper and with less sacrifice of time than
other men. His professional occupation does not absorb all his hours,
and he is too often an idle man, whether he hunt or whether he do not.
Nor is it desirable that any man should work always and never play. I
think it is certainly the fact that a clergyman may hunt twice a week
with less objection in regard to his time than any other man who has
to earn his bread by his profession. Indeed, this is so manifestly the
case, that I am sure that the argument in question, though it is the one
which is always intended to be conclusive, does not in the least convey
the objection which is really felt. The truth is, that a large and most
respectable section of the world still regards hunting as wicked. It is
supposed to be like the Cider Cellars or the Haymarket at twelve o'clock
at night. The old ladies know that the young men go to these wicked
places, and hope that no great harm is done; but it would be dreadful
to think that clergymen should so degrade themselves. Now I wish I could
make the old ladies understand that hunting is not wicked.

But although that expressed plea as to the want of time really amounts
to nothing, and although the unexpressed feeling of old ladies as to the
wickedness of hunting does not in truth amount to much, I will not
say that there is no other impediment in the way of a hunting parson.
Indeed, there have come up of late years so many impediments in the way
of any amusement on the part of clergymen, that we must almost presume
them to be divested at their consecration of all human attributes except
hunger and thirst. In my younger days, and I am not as yet very old,
an elderly clergyman might play his rubber of whist whilst his younger
reverend brother was dancing a quadrille; and they might do this without
any risk of a rebuke from a bishop, or any probability that their
neighbours would look askance at them. Such recreations are now
unclerical in the highest degree, or if not in the highest, they are
only one degree less so than hunting. The theatre was especially a
respectable clerical resource, and we may still occasionally see
heads of colleges in the stalls, or perhaps a dean, or some rector,
unambitious of further promotion. But should a young curate show himself
in the pit, he would be but a lost sheep of the house of Israel. And
latterly there went forth, at any rate in one diocese, a firman against
cricket! Novels, too, are forbidden; though the fact that they may be
enjoyed in solitude saves the clergy from absolute ignorance as to that
branch of our national literature. All this is hard upon men who, let
them struggle as they may to love the asceticisms of a religious life,
are only men; and it has a strong tendency to keep out of the Church
that very class, the younger sons of country gentlemen, whom all
Churchmen should wish to see enter it. Young men who think of the matter
when the time for taking orders is coming near, do not feel themselves
qualified to rival St. Paul in their lives; and they who have not
thought of it find themselves to be cruelly used when they are expected
to make the attempt.

But of all the amusements which a layman may follow and a clergyman may
not, hunting is thought to be by much the worst. There is a savour of
wickedness about it in the eyes of the old ladies which almost takes it
out of their list of innocent amusements even for laymen. By the term
old ladies it will be understood, perhaps, that I do not allude simply
to matrons and spinsters who may be over the age of sixty, but to that
most respectable portion of the world which has taught itself to abhor
the pomps and vanities. Pomps and vanities are undoubtedly bad, and
should be abhorred; but it behooves those who thus take upon themselves
the duties of censors to be sure that the practices abhorred are in
truth real pomps and actual vanities, not pomps and vanities of the
imagination. Now as to hunting, I maintain that it is of itself the
most innocent amusement going, and that it has none of that Cider-Cellar
flavour with which the old ladies think that it is so savoury. Hunting
is done by a crowd; but men who meet together to do wicked things meet
in small parties. Men cannot gamble in the hunting-field, and drinking
there is more difficult than in almost any other scene of life. Anonyma,
as we were told the other day, may show herself; but if so, she rides
alone. The young man must be a brazen sinner, too far gone for hunting
to hurt him, who will ride with Anonyma in the field. I know no vice
which hunting either produces or renders probable, except the vice of
extravagance; and to that, if a man be that way given, every pursuit in
life will equally lead him A seat for a Metropolitan borough, or a love
of ortolans, or a taste even for new boots will ruin a man who puts
himself in the way of ruin. The same may be said of hunting, the same
and no more.

But not the less is the general feeling very strong against the hunting
parson; and not the less will it remain so in spite of anything that I
may say. Under these circumstances our friend the hunting parson usually
rides as though he were more or less under a cloud. The cloud is not
to be seen in a melancholy brow or a shamed demeanour; for the hunting
parson will have lived down those feelings, and is generally too
forcible a man to allow himself to be subjected to such annoyances; nor
is the cloud to be found in any gentle tardiness of his motions, or an
attempt at suppressed riding; for the hunting parson generally rides
hard. Unless he loved hunting much he would not be there. But the cloud
is to be perceived and heard in the manner in which he speaks of himself
and his own doings. He is never natural in his self-talk as is any
other man. He either flies at his own cloth at once, marring some false
apology for his presence, telling you that he is there just to see the
hounds, and hinting to you his own know ledge that he has no business to
ride after them; or else he drops his profession altogether, and speaks
to you in a tone which makes you feel that you would not dare to speak
to him about his parish. You can talk to the banker about his banking,
the brewer about his brewing, the farmer about his barley, or the
landlord about his land; but to a hunting parson of this latter class,
you may not say a word about his church.

There are three modes in which a hunting parson may dress himself for
hunting, the variations having reference solely to the nether man. As
regards the upper man there can never be a difference. A chimney-pot
hat, a white neckerchief, somewhat broad in its folds and strong with
plentiful starch, a stout black coat, cut rather shorter than is common
with clergymen, and a modest, darksome waistcoat that shall attract no
attention, these are all matters of course. But the observer, if he will
allow his eye to descend below these upper garments, will perceive that
the clergyman may be comfortable and bold in breeches, or he may be
uncomfortable and semi-decorous in black trowsers. And there is another
mode of dress open to him, which I can assure my readers is not an
unknown costume, a tertium quid, by which semi-decorum and comfort are
combined. The hunting breeches are put on first, and the black trowsers
are drawn over them.

