Produced by Carrie Fellman.


A FASCINATING TRAITOR

AN ANGLO-INDIAN STORY

By Col. Richard Henry Savage


CONTENTS.


BOOK I. OUT OF THE DEAD PAST.


I.-A Chance Meeting at Geneva

II.-An Offensive and Defensive Alliance

III.-"And at Delhi What Am I to Do?"

IV.-The Veiled Rosebud of Delhi

V.-A Diplomatic Tiffin


BOOK II. "A DEVIL FOR LUCK."


VI.-The Mysterious Bungalow

VII.-The Price of Safety

VIII.-Harry Hardwicke Takes the Gate Neatly!

IX.-Alan Hawke Plays His Trump Card

X.-A Captivated Viceroy


BOOK III. PRINCE DJIDDIN'S VISIT TO ENGLAND.


XI.-"Do You See This Dagger?"

XII.-On the Cliffs of Jersey

XIII.-An Asiatic Lion in Hiding.

XIV.-The Council at Granville

XV.-The French Fisher Boat "Hirondelle"


BOOK I. OUT OF THE DEAD PAST.

CHAPTER I.

A CHANCE MEETING AT GENEVA.


"By Jove! I may as well make an end of the thing right here to-night!"
was the dejected conclusion of a long council of war over which
Major Alan Hawke had presided, with the one straggling comfort of
being its only member.

All this long September afternoon he had dawdled away in feeding
certain rapacious swans navigating gracefully around Rousseau's
Island. He had consumed several Trichinopoly cigars in the interval,
and had moodily gazed back upon the strange path which had led him
to the placid shores of Lake Leman! The gay promenaders envied the
debonnair-looking young Briton, whose outer man was essentially
"good form." Children left the side of their ox-eyed bonnes to
challenge the handsome young stranger with shy, friendly approaches.

Bevies of flashing-eyed American girls "took him in" with parthian
glances, and even a widowed Russian princess, hobbling by, easing
her gouty steps with a jeweled cane, gazed back upon the moody
Adonis and sighed for the vanished days, when she possessed both
the physical and mental capacity to wander from the beaten paths
of the proprieties.

But--the world forgetting--the young man lingered long, gazing out
upon the broad expanse of the waters, his eyes resting carelessly
upon the superb panorama of the southern shore. He had wandered far
away from the Grand Hotel National, in the aimlessness of sore
mental unrest, and, all unheeded, the hours passed on, as he threaded
the streets of the proud old Swiss burgher city. He had known its
every turn in brighter days, and, though the year of ninety-one was
a brilliant Alpine season, and he was in the very flower of youth
and manly promise, gaunt care walked as a viewless warder at Alan
Hawke's side.

He had crossed over the Pont de Montblanc to the British Consulate,
only to learn that the very man whom he had come from Monaco to
seek, was now already at Aix la Chapelle, on his way to America,
on a long leave. He had wearily made a tour of the principal hotels
and scanned the registers with no lucky find! Not a single gleam
of hope shone out in all the polyglot inscriptions passing under
his eye!  And so he had sadly betaken himself to a safe, retired
place, where he could hold the aforesaid council of war.

The practical part of the operations of this sole committee of ways
and means, was an exhaustive examination of his depleted pockets.
A few sovereigns and a single crisp twenty-pound Bank of England
note constituted the rear guard of Alan Hawke's vanished "sinews of
war." The young man briefly noted the slender store, with a sigh.

"Twenty-five pounds--and a little trumpery jewelry--I can't ever
get back to India on that!" He seemed to hear again the rasping
voice of the vulpine caller at Monte Carlo: "Messieurs! Faites vos
jeux! Rien ne va plus! Le jeu est fait!" And, if a dismal failure
in Lender had been his Leipsic, the black week at Monaco had been
his long drawn-out Waterloo! "I was a rank fool to go there," he
growled, "and a greater fool to come over here! I might have got
on easily to Malta, and then chanced it from there to Calcutta!"

The sun's last lances glittered on the waters gleaming clear as
crystal, with their deep blue tint of reflected sky, and liquid
sapphire! The gardens were becoming deserted as the loungers dropped
off homeward one by one, and still the handsome young fellow sat
moodily gazing down into the rushing waters of the arrowy Rhone,
as if he fain would cast the dark burden of his dreary thoughts
far away from him down into those darkling waters. But thirty-two
years of age, Alan Hawke had already outlived all his wild boyish
romances. The thrill with which he had first set foot upon the land
of Clive and Warren Hastings had faded away long years gone! And,
Fate had stranded him at Geneva!

As he sat, still irresolute as to his future movements, the dying
sunlight gilded the splendid panorama of the whole Mont Blanc
group.  Rose and purple, with fading gold and amethystine gleams
played softly upon the far-away giant peak, with its noble bodyguard,
the Aiguilles du Midi, Grandes Jorasses, the Dent du Geant, the
sturdy pyramid of the Mole, and the long far sweep of the Voirons.
But he noted not these splendors of the dying sun god, as he stood
there moodily defying adverse fate, a modern Manfred. "I might
with this get on to London--but what waits me there? Only scorn,
callous neglect!" His eye fell upon the statue of Jean Jacques,
lifted up there by the sturdy men who have for centuries clung to
the golden creeds of civil and religious liberty--the independence
of man--and the freedom of the unshackled human soul. "Poor Rousseau!
seer and parasite, fugitive adventurer, the sport of the great,
the eater of bitter bread--the black bread of dependence! I will
not linger here in a long-drawn agony! Here, I will end it forever,
and to-night!"

There were certain visions of the past which returned to shake
even the iron nerves of Alan Hawke! Face to face now with his half
formed resolution of suicide, the wasted past slowly unrolled itself
before him.

The brief days of his service in India, an abrupt exit from the
service, long years of wandering in Japan and China, as a gentleman
adventurer, and all the singular phases of a nomadic life in Burmah,
Nepaul, Cashmere, Bhootan, and the Pamirs.

He smiled in derision at the recollection of a briefly flattering
fortune which had rebaptized him with a shadowy title of uncertain
origin. Thus far, his visiting card, "Major Alan Hawke, Bombay Club"
had been an easily vised passport, but--alas--good only among his
own kind! He was but a free lance of the polished "Detrimentals,"
and, under this last adverse stroke of fortune, his poor cockboat
was being swamped in the black waters of adversity. He had staked
much upon a little campaign at the Foreign Office in London.
The cold rebuff which he had received to there had carried him in
sheer desperation over to Monaro and incoming onto Geneva, he had
"burned his ships" behind him. Ignorant of the precise manner in
which his clouded reputation had stopped the way to his advancement
in the English Secret Service, he remembered, even at the last,
that a few letters were due to those who still watched his little
flickering light on its way over the trackless sea of life. For
hard-hearted as he was,--benumbed by the blows of fate, his heart
calloused with the snapping of cords and ties which once had
closely bound him--there were yet loosely knit bonds of the past
which tinged with the glow of his dying passions--the unforgotten
idols of his adventurous career!

He rose and walked mechanically along the Qua du Mont Blanc with
the alert, springy step of the soldier. "Once a Captain, always
a Captain" was in every line of his resolute, martial figure. His
well-set-up, graceful form, his nobly poised head and easy soldierly
bearing contrasted sharply with the lazy shuffle of the prosperous
Swiss denizens and the listless lolling of the sporadic foreign
tourists. Crisp, curling, tawny hair, a sweeping soldierly moustache,
with a resolute chin and gleaming blue eyes accentuated a handsome
face burnt to a dark olive by the fiery Indian sun. An easy insouciance
tempered the habitual military smartness of the man who had known
several different services in the fifteen years of his wasted young
manhood. As he swung into the glare of the hospitable doorway of the
Grand Rational, the obsequious head porter doffed his gold banded
cap.

"Table d'hote serving now, Major!" With the mere social instinct of
long years, Alan Hawke recognized the man's perfunctory politeness,
tipped him a couple of francs, and then, mechanically sauntered to
a seat in the superb salle a manger. "I'll get out of here to-night,"
he muttered, and then he bent down his head over the carte du jour
and peered at the wine list, as the chatter of happy voices, the
animated faces of lovely women and the eager hum of social life
around, recalled him to that world from which he contemplated an
unceremonious exit. It was in a deference to old habit, and the "qu
en dira't on," that he ordered a half bottle of excellent Chambertin
and then proceeded to dine with all the scrupulous punctilio of
the old happy mess days.

Something of defiance seemed to steal back into his veins with the
generous warmth of the wine--a touch of the old gallant spirit with
which he had faced a hard world, since the unfortunate incident
which had abruptly terminated his connection with "The Widow's"
Service. His eye swept carelessly over the international detachment
seated at the splendid table. Lively and chattering as they were,
it was a human Sahara to him. He easily recognized the "Ten-Pounder"
element of wandering Britons; poor, anxious-eyed beings grudgingly
furloughed from shop and desk, and now sternly determined to descend
at Charing Cross without breaking into the few reserve sovereigns.
Serious-looking women, clad in many colors, and stolid cockneys,
hostile to all foreign innovation, met his eye. He sighed as he
cast his social net and drew up nothing.

There was a vacant chair at his left. Very shortly, without turning
his eyes, he was made aware of the proximity of a woman, young,
evidently a continental, from her softly murmured French.

"Houbigant's Forest Violets," he murmured. "She is at least
semi-civilized!" He was dreaming of the far off lotos land which
he had left, as he felt the rebellious protest of his young blood
and the defiant spirit awaked by the mechanical luxury of the
well-ordered dinner. "These human pawns seem to be all prosperous,
if not happy! I'll have another shy at it! By God! I must get back
to India!" The whole checkered past rushed back over his mind! The
fifteen years of his "wanderjahre"! Scenes which even he dared not
recall! Incidents which he had never dared to own to any European!
He but too well knew the origin of his loosely applied title of
Major--a field officer's rank more honored at the easygoing clubs
of Yokahama, Shanghai, and Hong Kong than on the Army List--a rank
best known at the ring-side of Indian sporting grounds, and only
tacitly accepted in the extra-official circles of Hindustan. For it
figured not in the official Army List, either as active or retired.
The whole panorama of the mystic land of the Hindus was unrolled
once more by the memories of fifteen clouded years, He saw again
his far-away theater of varied action, with its huge grim mountains
towering far over the snow line, its arid wastes, its fertile plains
bathed in intense sunshine, its mystic rivers, and its silent,
solemn shrines of the vanished gods.

Major Alan Hawke silently ran over his slender professional
accomplishments. "I'm not too heavy to ride yet. I've a fair hand
at cards--tough nerves, and even a bit of staying power. Luck may
turn my way yet and there's always the Pamirs! At the worst, the
Russians--the Afghans,--or those fellows up in Sikkim and Hill
Tipperah! An artillerist is always welcome there!" But even in his
moral desperation, he hung his head, for a flush of his boyhood's
bright ambitions returned to shame him. An old song jingled in his
memory, "When I first put this uniform on." He lapsed into a bitter
reverie!

The soldier of fortune was finally aroused from a brown study by
the impassive steward presenting two great dishes. The clatter of
some late convive seating himself also caused him to turn his head.

"Hello, Anstruther! You are a long way from staff headquarters
here!" quietly said Hawke, as the new arrival gazed at him in a
mute surprise.

Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther put up his monocle and
duly answered: "I thought that you were still in Calcutta, Hawke."
There was a faint noli me tangere air in the young staff officer's
manner, and yet mere propinquity drew them together in a few
minutes. With the insouciance of men bred in club and at mess,
the two soldiers soon drifted into an easy chat, meeting on safe
grounds. They calmly ignored the surrounding civilians, regardless
of the attractions of two falcon-eyed Chicago beauties, loud of
voice and brilliantly overdressed, who were guiding "Popper" and
"Mommer" over the continent. These resplendent daughters of Columbia
already boasted a train consisting of a French count (of a very
old and shadowy regime), a singularly second-hand looking Italian
marquis, a wooden-soldier figured German baron, and a sad-eyed,
distant-looking Russian prince, whose bold Tartar glances rested
hungrily upon both Miss "Phenie" and Miss "Genie" Forbes.

The Anglo-Indians, however, calmly pursued their dinner and gossip
regardless of the fact that Miss "Phenie" had violently nudged
Miss "Genie," and whispered in a stage aside: "Say, Genie, look at
those two English fellows! They are something like--I bet you that
they are two Lords!" The approval of the gilded Western maidens,
whose father systematically assassinated a thousand porkers per
diem, was lost upon the chance-met acquaintances. "I must get back
to India, by hook or crook," mused Alan Hawke, and therefore, he
very delicately played his wary fish, the sybaritic young swell of
the staff. Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther's reserve soon
melted under the skillful bonhomie of the astute Alan Hawke. An
easy-going patrician of the staff, he was in the magic circle of
the viceroy.  The heir to an inevitable fortune, and already vested
with substantially stratified deposits at "Coutts" and Glyn, Carr
and Glyn's, he would have been envied by most luckless mortals the
heavy balances which he always carried at "Grind-lay's," a fortune
for any less fortunate man.

He was already interested in the remarkably fetching looking young
woman at Alan Hawke's left, being a squire of dames par excellence,
while Major Alan Hawke himself wondered how Anstruther had drifted
so far away from the direct line of travel to London.

Thawing visibly under the influence of Hawke's gracefully modulated
camaraderie, the susceptible Anstruther was attentively examining
his fair neighbor in silence, while he tried vaguely to recall some
story which he had once heard, quite detrimental to the cosmopolitan
Major.

He gave it up as a bad job! "Hang it!" he thought. "It may have
been some other chap. Verylikely!" It was the strange story of a
sharp encounter with the hostile Kookies, in which a couple of English
mountain guns, long before abandoned by a British expeditionary
force, had been served with due professional skill and most
desperate dash by a reckless man, easily recognized as an English
refugee artillerist. The wounded escaped British soldier, who had
died after denouncing the deserting adventurer, had left his parting
advice to the Royal Artillery to burn the fearless renegade, should
he ever be captured. It was the Story of a nameless traitor!

But, the vague distrust of the curled darling of Fortune soon faded
away under Hawke's measured social leading. A silver wine cooler
stood behind their chairs, and the old yarn of a British officer
playing Olivier Pain became very misty under the subtle influence of
the Pommery Sec. Alan Hawke guarded the expected story of his own
wanderings, waiting craftily until Bacchus and Venus had sufficiently
mollified Anstruther.

He duplicated the champagne, knowing well the warming influence
of "t'other bottle." The Major of a shadowy rank had early learned
the graceful art of effacing himself, and on this occasion, it
stood greatly to his credit. Anstruther was now quite sure that the
graceful head of the beautiful neighbor swayed in an unconscious
recognition of his witty sallies. A true son of Mars--ardent,
headlong, and gallant as regarded le beau sexe--he talked brilliantly
and well, aiming his boomerang remarks at a woman whom he knew to
be young and graceful, and whose beauty he was gayly taking upon
trust; an old, old interlude, played many a time and oft.

"What is going on here in this beastly slow old town? Nothing
much for to-night, I fancy," said the aid-de-camp, wondering if a
promenade au clair de la lune or a carriage ride to Ferney would
be possible! He already had noted the purity of the French accent
of the fair unknown. No guttural Swiss patois there, but that crisp
elegance of tone which promised him a flirtation en vraie Parisienne.

"Only Philemon and Baucis, an antique opera, at the Grand Opera
House, and sung by a band of relics of better days, wandering over
here!" said Hawke.

And then it finally dawned upon the blase young staff officer that
he had met Alan Hawke in certain circles where plunging had chased
away the tedium of Indian club life with the delightful sensations
of raking in other people's money.

"Better come up to my rooms then, and have a weed and a bit of
ecarte!" slowly said Anstruther. "We may manage a ride afterward!"
Alan Hawke nodded, and a thirsty gleam lit up his crafty eyes. He
instinctively felt for the little card case containing that solitary
twenty-pound note; it was a gentleman's stake after all. And the
would-be suicide silently invoked the fickle goddess Fortuna!

Captain Anstruther, however, furtively murmured a few words to the
solemn head steward and then leaned back contentedly in his chair.
His ostensible orders for cafe noir and cards, as well as the least
murderous of the obtainable cigars, covered the plan of using a
five-pound note in an adroit personal inquiry. For, the Honorable
Anson Anstruther proposed to ride that very evening, and he did
not wish to bore Major Hawke with his company. He nursed a little
scheme of his own. "Do you make a long stay?" carelessly said the
wary Major.

"I intend to leave to-morrow night," gayly answered the other. "I
came over here on a very strange errand. I've got to see an eminent
Gorgon of respectability, who has a finishing school here for the
young person [bien clevee," said Anstruther, eyeing the unknown.

"Hardly in your line, Anstruther!" laughed Hawke, casting his eyes
around the depleted table, for Miss Phenie and Miss Genie Forbes
had vanished at last, leaving behind them expanding wave circles
of sharply echoing comment. The noisy Teutons had devoured their
seven francs worth, and the fair bird of passage on their left was
left alone, woman-like, dallying with the last sweets and finishing
her demi bouteille with true French deliberation. "It's a case of
the wolf and the sheep-fold!"

"Not that; not at all!" gayly answered Anstruther. "I have a long
leave, and I only ran over here to oblige His Excellency." He
spoke with all the easy disdain of all underlings born of an Indian
official life--the habitual disregard of the Briton for his inferior
surroundings. "By Jove! you may help me out yourself! You're an
old Delhi man!" He gazed earnestly at Hawke, who started nervously,
and then said:

"You know I've been away for a good bit of the ten years in the
far Orient, but I used to know them all, before I went out of the
line."

"Then you surely know old Hugh Johnstone, the rich, old, retired
deputy commissioner of Oude?" Alan Hawke slowly sipped his champagne,
for his Delhi memories were both risky and uncertain ground.

"I fail to recall the name, Johnstone--Johnstone," murmured Hawke.

"Why, everyone knows old Johnstone; he is an old mutiny man. You
surely do! He was Hugh Fraser until he took the name of Johnstone,
ten years or so ago, on a Scotch relative leaving him a handsome
Highland estate!" There was a warning rustle at Hawke's left, as
the fair stranger prepared for her flitting.

"I was very intimate with Hugh Fraser in my griffin days. But I
thought he had retired and gone back home. He is enormously rich,
and an old bachelor! I know him very well; he was a good friend of
mine in the old days, too!"

Anstruther leaned toward Hawke, as he signed to the waiter to refill
his hearer's glass. "Well, I can surprise even you! He has turned
up with a beautiful daughter--at Delhi--just about the prettiest
girl I ever--"

"Je demande mills pardons, Madame!" politely cried Major Hawke, as
his fair neighbor's wineglass went shivering down in a crystalline
wreck.

"Pas de quoi, Monsieur," suavely replied the woman whom till now he
had hardly noticed. A moment later the slight damage was repaired,
and then Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther had his little
innings.

With courtly hospitality he offered the creamy champagne as a
remplacement for the lost vin du pays.

A charming smile rewarded the gallant youth, while Major Hawke
turned with interest to the renewal of the interrupted narrative.
He had caught a glance of burning intensity from the dark brown
eyes of the lady a la Houbigant, which set every nerve in his body
tingling.  It was a challenge to a companionship, and, as he led
on the triumphant Anstruther, he deeply regretted the absence of
that most necessary organ,--an eye in the back of the head. He was
dimly aware that his beautiful neighbor was very leisurely drinking
the peace offering of the susceptible son of Mars. "I will bet
hundreds to ha'pennies she speaks English!" quickly reflected the
now aroused Major.

"You astound me, Anstruther," the Major said. "Not a lawful child!
Some Eurasian legacy--a relic of the old days of the Pagoda Tree!
Why, the old commissioner always was a woman hater, and absolutely
hostile to all social influences!" The Captain was now stealing
longing glances at the willowy figure of the beautiful woman whose
glistening dark brown eyes were turned to him with a languid glance,
as Alan Hawke leaned forward. To prolong the sight of that bewitching
half profile, with the fair, low brows, the velvet cheeks, a
Provencale flush tinting them, the parted lips a dainty challenge
speaking, and the rich masses of dark brown hair nobly crowning
her regal outlines, Anstruther yielded to the spell and babbled
on. "The whole thing is a strange melange of official business and
dying gossip!" dreamily said Anstruther with his eyes straying over
the ivory throat, the superbly modeled bust and perfect figure of
the young Venus Victrix.

He was duly rewarded by a glance of secret intelligence when he
leaned back, dreamily closing his eyes. "You see, they were going
to make old Hugh Fraser or Hugh Johnstone, as he is now called,
a baronet for some secret services to the Crown of an important
nature, rendered about the time when mad Hodson piled up the whole
princely succession to the House of Oude in a trophy of naked corpsess
pistoling them with his own hand." He ordered a third bottle of
Pommery, with a wave of his hand, and proceeded: "Of course, you
know, Her Majesty's Government always closely investigate the social
antecedents of the nominee in such cases. The change of name is
all right; it is regularly entered at Herald's College and all that
sort of thing, but the Chief has heard of the sudden appearance
of this beautiful daughter. Now, old Johnstone surely never looked
the way of woman in India! It's true that he went back about twenty
years ago to England on a two years' leave. He has lived the life
of a splendid recluse in his magnificent old bungalow on the Chandnee
Chouk."

Anstruther paused, fishing for another fugitive smile. He caught
it behind the back of the wary adventurer.

"I know the old house well," said Hawke with an affected unconcern.
"Men were always entertained royally there, but I never saw a woman
of station in its vast saloons."

"Now there you are!" cried Anstruther, lightly resuming: "I was
sent up to Delhi to delicately find out about this alleged daughter,
for the Chief does not want to throw Johnstone's baronetcy over.
The fact is before they packed the toothless old King of Oude away
to Rangoon to die with his favorite wife and their one wolf cub out
there, Hugh Fraser skillfully extorted a surrender of a huge private
treasure of jewels from these people while they were hidden away
in Humayoon's tomb. There's one trust deposit yet to be divided
between the Government and this sly old Indo-Scotch-man, and
I fancy the empty honor of the baronetcy is a quid pro quo." Alan
Hawke laughed heartily. "It is really diamond cut diamond, then."

"Precisely," said Anstruther, as he most calmly waved his hand
to the steward, who silently refilled even the glass of the Venus
Anonyma. A slight inclination of the head and parthian glance number
three, encouraged Anstruther to hasten and conclude, for the moon
was sailing grandly over the lake now.

Love thrilled in the young man's vacant heart, sounding the chords
of the Harp of Life. He had been in a glittering Indian exile long
enough to be very susceptible. "I spent two weeks up there with
the expectant Sir Hugh Johnstone," lightly rattled on the aid. "I
verified the fact that the young woman is his acknowledged daughter.
He has no other lineal heir to the title, for an old, dry-as-dust,
retired Edinburgh professor, a brother, childless and eccentric, is
living near St. Helier's, in Jersey, in a beautiful Norman chateau
farm mansion, where old Hugh proposed once to end his days. It seems
to be all square enough. I was as delicate as I could be about it,
and the matter is apparently all right. The papers have all gone
on, and, in due time, Hugh Fraser will be Sir Hugh Johnstone!"

Anstruther quaffed a beaker with guileful ideas of detaining his
fair neighbor, now ruffling her plumage for departure, for only a
sporadic knot of diners here and there lingered at the long table.
"The girl herself?" asked Hawke, with a strange desire to know
more.

"Report has duly magnified her hidden charms," replied Anstruther.
"She is called "The Veiled Rose of Delhi," and no manner of man may
lift that mystic veil. I was treated en prince, but held at arm's
length."

Hawke smiled softly, and said in a low voice, "I hardly see how all
this brings you over here. The Rose blooms by the far-away Jumna."

"Then know, my friend," laughed Anstruther, "such a rose as the
peerless Nadine Johnstone must have a duenna." He deftly caught an
impassioned glance from the softly shining brown eyes, and hastily
went on. "She was educated right here in this emporium of watches,
musical boxes, correct principles, and scientific research. Mesdames
Justine and Euphrosyne Delande, No. 122 Rue du Rhone, conduct an
institute (justly renowned) where calisthenics, a view of the lake,
a little music, a great deal of bad French, and the Conversations
Lexicon, with some surface womanly graces, may all be had for
some two hundred pounds a year. Miss Justine Delande, a sedately
gray-tinted spinster, has been tempted to remain on guard for
a year out in India, having safely conducted this Pearl of Jeunes
Personnes Bien Elevees out to the old Qui Hai. I have been charged
with some few necessary explanations and negotiations, the delivery of
some presents, and, when I have visited this first-class institute,
enjoying all the attractions of the Jardm Anglais and the Promenade
du Lac, I shall flee these tranquil slopes of the Pennine Alps.
Incidentally, the records of Mademoiselle Euphrosyne will confirm
the very natural story of the would-be Sir Hugh, whose vanished
wife no Anglo-Indian has ever seen. She is supposably dead. A last
official note after I have run on to Paris will close up the whole
awkward matter. I will call there tomorrow and then take the early
train, as I am on for a lot of family visits and sporting events
before I can settle down to have my bit of a fling."

"It's a very strange story," murmured Alan Hawke. "No man ever
suspected Hugh Fraser of family honors."

"And 'the Rose of Delhi!' will probably marry some lucky fellow
out there, as old Johnstone has lacs and lacs of rupees," said
Anstruther, "for he cannot keep her in his great gardens forever,
guarded by the stony-eyed Swiss spinster, or let her run around as
the Turks do their priceless pet sheep with a silver bell around
her neck. There was some old marital unhappiness, I suppose, for
the girl is evidently born in wedlock, and the story is straight
enough."

"Have you seen her?" eagerly inquired Hawke.

"Just a few stolen glimpses," hastily replied Anstruther, politely
rising and bowing as the fair unknown suddenly left her seat, in
evident confusion.

The two men strolled out of the salle & manger together, Major Alan
Hawke critically observing the heightened color and evident elan
of his aristocratic friend.

"Oh! I say, Hawke," cried Anstruther, "they'll show you up to my
rooms in a few moments. I'll go and see the maitre d'hotel here!
The service is beastly--beastly!" and the youth fled quickly away.

Major Alan Hawke nodded affably, and slowly mounted the staircase
to his room, wondering if the aid-de-camp was destined by the gods
to furnish forth his purse for the return to India. "He's pretty
well set up now, and he evidently has his eye upon this brown-eyed
nixie.  Dare I rush my luck? The boy's a bit stupid at cards." With
downcast eyes the anxious adventurer wandered along the corridor
in the dimly-lighted second story. It was the turning point of his
career.

There was the rapid rustle of silk, the patter of gliding feet,
a warm, trembling hand seized his own, and in the darkness of a
window recess he was aware that he was suddenly made the prize of
the fair corsair ci la Houbigant. "Quick, quick, tell me! Do you
go with him?" the strange enchantress said, in excited tones, using
the English tongue as if to the manner born.

"Madame! I hardly understand," cautiously said the astounded Major.

"I want you to help me! You must help me! I must see him! I must
find out all." The sound of a servant's steps arrested her incoherent
remarks. "Wait here!" the excited woman whispered, as she walked
back down the hall. There was a whispered colloquy, and Alan Hawke
caught the gleam of the silver neck chain of the maitre d'hotel.
The sound of an opening door was heard, and, in a few moments the
flying Camilla returned to her hidden prey.

"Tell me truly," she panted, "what will you do with him? He wishes
me to ride with him; my answer depends on you. You are in trouble;
I can see it in your haggard eyes. Help me now, and--and I will
help you!" And then Alan Hawke spoke truly to the waif of Destiny,
whom chance had thrown in his way.

"I only wish to play with him for a couple of hours; if luck turns
my way, that will be time enough!"

"Ah! you would have money! Let him go away in peace! Help me
to-morrow, here, and I will give you money!"

"What is your own scheme?" the doubting vaurien demanded.

"I must know all of this Hugh Johnstone, all about this girl," she
whispered, her lips almost touching his cheek.

"Let me play with him to-night; I am yours as soon as he departs!"
sullenly said Hawke.

"Then, finish in two hours," the woman said, gathering her draperies
to flee away, "for I will ride with him to-night!"

"Just a bit unconventional," murmured Alan Hawke. "Who the devil can
this French-English woman be anyway." He realized that some subtle
game depended upon the memories of the past strangely evoked by the
artless Anstruther's babble. As he strolled back to the smoking-room,
he saw the maitre d'hotel slyly deliver a twisted bit of paper to
the all too unconcerned looking young Adonis, and the gleam of a
napoleon shone out in the grave faced Figaro's hand. "Now for our
cafe noir, a good pousse cafe--and--a dash at the painted beauties.
I can't play very long," was Anstruther's salutation, as he
complacently twisted his mustache en hussar. Major Hawke bowed in
a silent delight.

And so it fell out that both wolf and panther--hungry vulpine prowler
and sleek feminine soft-footed enemy--gathered closely, around the
young British Lion, whose easy self-complacency led him into the
snare, hoodwinked by the fair unknown Delilah.

Alan Hawke strode to the windows of Anstruther's rooms and standing
there, watched the drifting moonbeams mantling on the spectral
blue lake, while his chance-met friend rang for a waiter. There was
the murmur of confidential orders, and then Anson Anstruther with
a bright smile dropped easily into the role of host. The young
staff officer was so elated by the apparently flattering selection
of the fair anonyma that he never considered the idea of possible
foul play. It was evident that Major Hawke had not noticed the
little by-play which was the delightful undercurrent of the table
d'hotel dinner. There was no time lost in the preliminaries of the
card duel.

Through curling blue wreaths of aromatic incense, over the
brandy-dashed coffee, the two men sententiously struggled for the
smiles of Fortune, with impassive faces, in a rapid duel of wits
as the fleeting moments sped along.

The tide of luck was set dead against Anstruther, who strangely seemed
to be now possessed of a merry devil. He made perilous excursions
into the land of brandy and soda, gayly faced his bad fortune, and
feverishly chattered over the well-worn Anglo-Indian gossip adroitly
introduced by the now nerve-steadied Hawke. General Renwick's
loss of his faded and feeble spouse, the far-famed "Poor Thing" of
much polite apology for her socially aristocratic ailments; Vane
Tempest's singular elopement with the beautiful wife of a green
subaltern; Harry Chillingly's untoward end while potting tigers;
Count Platen's enormous winnings at Baccarat; Fitzgerald Law's
falling into a peerage; and Mrs. Claire Atterbury, the wealthy widow's
purchase of a handsome boy-husband fresh from Sandhurst. All this
with Jack Blunt's long expected ruin, and a spicy court-martial or
two, furnished a running accompaniment to Anstruther's expensive
"personally conducted tour" into the intricacies of ecarte, led
on by the coolest safety player who ever fleeced a griffin. Truly
these were golden moments. The Major's cool steady eyes were sternly
fixed on his cards.

The self-imposed sentence of suicide of the afternoon was indefinitely
postponed when Alan Hawke amiably nodded as Anstruther at last
apologized for glancing at his watch. "I've a bit to do to get
ready for to-morrow, and we'll try one more hand and then I'll say
good-night."

"Well, I'll give you your revenge at any time, Anstruther! By
the way, what's your London address?" Hawke was complacently good
humored as he glanced at a visiting card whereon sundry comfortable
figures were roughly totted up.

"Junior United Service, always," carelessly said Anstruther. "They
keep run of me, for I'm off for the woods as soon as the shooting
season opens. Where will you be this winter?"

Major Hawke assumed a mysterious air, "That depends upon the Russian
and Chinese game--the Persian and Afghan intrigues! You see, I am
awaiting some ripening affairs in the F. O. I was called back on
account of my familiarity with the Pamirs, and there's a good bit
of Blue Book work that my knowledge of Penj Deh, and the whole
Himalayan line has helped out." The captain was a bit agnostic now.

"You were---" began Anson Anstruther, timidly, the old vague gossip
returning to haunt him. His ardor was cooling in view of the very
neat sum of his losses in three figures.

"On Major Montgomerie's escort as a raw boy when I came out," promptly
interrupted Hawke. "I went all over Thibet in '75 with Nana Singh
as a youngster. He was a wonderful chap and besides executing the
secret survey of Thibet, he ran all over Cashmere, Nepaul, Sikkim,
and Bhootan, secretly charged with securing authentic details
of the death of Nana Sahib." The cool assurance of the adventurer
disarmed the now serious Anstruther, for both the sagacious
English officer and his disguised assistant, Nana Singh, were both
dead these many years. "Morley's is my regular address; I keep up
no home club memberships now," coolly said Hawke, as at last they
threw the cards down.

Anstruther picked up his marker card as he glanced at Hawke's ready
money upon the table. There was a ten-pound note folded under the
Major's neat pocket case and a plethoric fold of Bank of England
notes bulged the neat Russia leather. He never knew that only thirteen
one-pound notes made up this brave financial show of his adversary.
Alan Hawke was a past master of keeping up a brave exterior and
he blessed the Cook's Tourists who had that day left these small
bills with the hotel cashier.

"Now, here you are," hastily said Anstruther. "Do you make the
same total as I do?" The spoiled partrician boy carelessly shoved
out sixty pounds in notes and rummaging over his portmanteau produced
a check book. "There, I think that's right. Check on Grindlay,
11 and 12 Parliament Street, for four hundred and twenty-eight."
Hawke bowed gravely with the air of a satisfied duelist, and then
carelessly swept the check and notes into his breast pocket.

"Tell me, what sort of a girl is this Nadine Johnstone," the wanderer
said, by way of a diversion.

"I can't tell you! Only old General Willoughby has pierced the veil.
Of course, Johnstone could not refuse a visit from the Commander of
Her Majesty's forces. In fact, Harry Hardwicke, of the Engineers,
accompanied Willoughby. The old chief treats Hardwicke as a son
since he bore the body of the dear old fellow's son out of fire in
the Khyber Pass, and won a promotion and the V. C. Harry says the
girl is a modern Noor-Mahal! But, she is as speechless and timid
as a startled fawn! Now, Major, you will excuse me. I have to leave
you!" There was a fretful haste in the passionate boy's manner.
The hour was already near midnight.

"Shall I not see you to-morrow?" politely resumed Hawke. "You will
not spend your whole morning with the stern damsel in spectacles
and steel-like armor of indurated poplin?"

"Do you know I'm afraid I shall miss you," earnestly said the aide.
"Hugh Johnstone wishes me to urge Mademoiselle Euphrosyne to allow
her sister to remain in India, in charge of the Rose of Delhi until
the old eccentric returns. Of course, the girl left alone would
be an easy prey to every fortune hunter in India, should anything
happen!" There was a ferocious, wild gleam in Alan Hawke's eyes
as the aide grasped his hat and stick. "I wish to probe the family
records and find out what I can of the 'distaff side of the line,'
as Mr. Guy Livingstone would say. I have some really valuable
presents, and I am on honor to the Viceroy in this, for, of course,
a baronetcy must not be given into sullied hands. Johnstone will
probably hermetically seal the girl up till the Kaisar-I-Hind has
spoken officially. Then, if this delicate matter of the hidden
booty of the King of Oude is settled, the old fellow intends to
return to the home place he has bought. I'm told it's the finest
old feudal remnant in the Channel Islands, and magnificently
modernized. The government does not want to press him. You see
they can't! The things went out of the hands of the hostile traitor
princes, and Hugh Fraser, as he was, cajoled them from the custody
of the go-betweens. We have never gone back on the plighted word of
a previous Governor-General! The Queen's word must not be broken.
I have a bit of persuading to do, and some other little matters to
settle!"

"Well, then, Anstruther, we may meet again on the line of the
Indus," said Hawke, with his lofty air. "I have always preferred
the secret service to mere routine campaigning, for, really, the
waiting spoils the fighting! Poor Louis Cavagnari! He confirmed
my taste for silent and outside work! I was sent out from Cabul by
him as private messenger just before that cruel massacre, a faux
pas, which I vainly predicted. He taught me to play ecarte, by the
way!"

"Then he was a good teacher, and you--a devilish apt scholar!"
laughed Anstruther, as he politely held the door open for the man
who had coldly fleeced him.

Alan Hawke's pulses were now bounding with the thrill of his unlooked-for
harvest! He experienced a certain pride in his marvelous skill,
and, restraining himself, he soberly paced along the corridor. The
excited aid-de-camp stood for a moment with his foot on the stair,
and then slowly descended. "He suspects nothing!" the amatory youth
murmured, as he passed out upon the broad Quai du Leman.

He walked swiftly along, gayly whistling "Donna e Mobile,"
with certain private variations of his own, until he reached the
splendid monument erected to the miserly old Duke of Brunswick,
who showered his scraped-up millions upon an alien city, to spite
his own fat-witted Brunswickers, and so escaped the blood-fleshed
talons of the hungry-Prussian eagle.

Duke Charles I hovered amiably in the air, over a comfortable
carriage wherein the "other little matters" were most temptingly
materialized in the person of a lovely woman waiting there with
burning eyes, her splendid face veiled in a black Spanish lace
scarf. It was the old fate--"Unlucky at cards, lucky in love!" The
staff officer's abrupt command to "drive everywhere, anywhere,"
until "further orders," was implicitly obeyed by the stolid cabby,
who set off at once for a long round of the mild "lions" of fair
Geneva, nestling there by the shimmering lake.

The click of the horses' feet upon the deserted roadway kept time
to the murmurs of a most coy Delilah, who molded as wax in her
slender hands the ardent military Samson, who was all unmindful
of his flowing locks! And the silent moon shimmered down upon the
waste of waters!

Alan Hawke was seated for an hour alone in his room, enjoying the
cigars offered up by the "Universal Provider," who had yielded up
so liberally. The strong brandy and soda had at last restored his
shaken nerves, for he had played with his life staked upon the
outcome! He then grimly counted up his winnings. "Four-hundred and
eighty-eight good pounds! That will take me back to Delhi in very
good shape," he soliloquized. "I wonder if there is anyway to get
at that girl? If I mistake not, she will have a half a million!
The old Commissioner always liked me, too. By God! If I could only
get in between him and this baronetcy I might creep in on the girl's
friendship! But the old curmudgeon keeps her locked up! Rather
risky in India!" He leaned back, enjoying memories of the women with
pulses of flame and hearts of glowing coal whom he had met in the
days when he was "dead square." This strange woman! Who is she?
What does she know?

He dozed off until the clattering return of the Misses Phemie and
Genie Forbes, of Chicago, aroused him. His broad grin accentuated
the easily overheard strident remark: "Say, Genie, I wish we had
had those two English Lords at our opera supper. They are just
jim-dandies, that's what!"

"As long as the world is full of such fools, I can afford to live,"
he pleasantly remarked, as he turned in. A new campaign was opening
to him. Far away, up the shores of the moon-transfigured lake, a
hot-headed young fool was showering kisses on the hand of a woman,
who sweetly said: "Remember my conditions! Prove yourself my friend,
and I will meet you in Paris! Now, take me home." Samson was shorn
of his locks, and the delighted Alan Hawke found a little note
slipped under his door in the morning.


CHAPTER II.

AN OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSIVE ALLIANCE.


When the now buoyant Major Alan Hawke was awakened by the golden
lances of morning which shivered gayly upon the Pennine Alps he
proceeded to a most leisurely toilet, having first satisfied himself
that his winnings of the night before were not the baseless fabric
of a dream. He smiled as he fingered the crisp, clean notes, and
gazed lovingly upon the dingy-looking but potent check drawn on
the old army bankers.

"No nonsense about that signature," he cheerfully said. "Anstruther
is no welsher," and, as he rang for his hot water and a morning
refresher, he picked up the little note with an eager curiosity.

"By Gad! she is a cool one! This is no vulgar darned occasion!
I need all my wits to-day!" He was studying over the brief words
when the ready waiter took his order for a cosy breakfast. He had
deliberately moved out all his lines to an easy comfort, throwing
out a line of pickets against any appearance of social shabbiness.
"She said that she had money," he murmured, as he read the note
again. "What the devil does she want, then, if she has all the
money she needs! Perhaps some discarded mistress! Bah! The old
man's heart is as hollow as a sentrybox, and, besides, he has not
been in Europe for nearly twenty years. Ah, I see! Perhaps a bit of
blackmail--some early indiscretion! She did speak about the girl!
Then I must be the silent partner of her future harvest! She probably
needs a man's arm to reach the wary old Baronet in future. My lady
writes in no uncertain tone."

He carefully folded the note and bestowed it safely with the spoil
of the young patrician. "Of course I must show up," he said as he
betook himself to his tub whence he emerged shapely as an Adonis
with the corded torso of an athlete. The appetizing breakfast put
the Major in excellent humor, and he drew forth his "sailing orders"
as he lit his first cheroot. Seated in a window recess, he watched
the hotel frontage, while he read the imperative lines again. They
were explicit enough and had been dictated en reine. "Meet me at
the Musee Rath, in the vestibule at two o'clock. He leaves here at
one-thirty. Keep away from the hotel and avoid us both. Go up to
Ferney and come back on the one o'clock boat."

There was a neat carte de visite in the inclosure.

"Now, I will wager that is not her name," he smiled as he read the
Italian script.

"I can certainly now afford to throw a day or so away on her. At
any rate, I will let her make the game. I must wait a day or so to
send on the Grindlay check," the wanderer mused, smiling genially
upon the head porter. Major Alan Hawke casually inquired, upon his
leisurely descent, "My friend?"

"Ah, sir! Paid his bill and left. Luggage already sent to the station
labeled 'Paris.'" Alan Hawke most liberally tipped the functionary.
"I think I will take a run of a few days up to Lausanne or Chillon
myself; the weather is delightful." He strolled over to the local
Cook's Agency and sent his treasure-trove check on to London for
collection.

"I think that I will fight shy of this sleepy burgh," he ruminated,
as the little paddle-wheel steamer sped along toward Ferney, leaving
behind a huge triangular wake carved in the pellucid waters. "It
might be devilish awkward if Anstruther should find me here, hovering
around his fair enslaver. I may need this golden youth again, in
the days to come! He will be out of India for a couple of years,
but I will not trust Fate blindly. What the old Harry can she be
up to?" He suddenly burst into a merry peal of laughter, to the
astonishment of the crowd of passengers.

"Fool that I am! I see it all now! Anstruther cleared out early!
The proprieties of the home of Calvin must be respected! After he
has adroitly pumped the intellectual fountain of the past dry, then
a quiet little breakfast tete et tete will give Madame Louison the
time to fool him to the top of his bent! The sly minx! Evidently
she is cast for the 'ingenue' part in this little social drama! And
her trump card is to hide from me what she extracts from our Lovelace
by the coy use of those deuced fetching brown eyes and--other charms
too numerous to mention! But you shall tell me all yet, Miss Sly
Boots!" And the Major dreamed pleasant day dreams.

Life now seemed so different to the hopeful vaurien, with the
physical and moral backing of the four hundred and odd pounds! "I
was a fool--a damned fool, yesterday," he cheerfully ruminated. "If
I only handle this woman rightly, then I may get the hold I want
on this old recluse Johnstone, congested with the fat pickings of
forty-five years. A close-mouthed old rat is he, and yet it seems
that he is vulnerable after all. If he is playing fast and loose
with the government he will never get his honors before he gives
up the sleeping trust of the forgotten years."

Major Hawke vainly tried to follow the exuberant Anstruther in his
incursion into the placid temple of Minerva, where that watchful
spinster, Miss Euphrosyne Delande, eyed somewhat icily the handsome.
young "Greek bearing gifts." Professional prudence and the memory
of certain judiciously smothered escapades caused Miss Euphrosyne
at first to retire within her moral breast works and draw up the
sally-port bridge. For even in chilly Geneva, young hearts throb in
nature's flooding lava passions, jealously bodiced in school-girl
buckram and glacial swiss muslin. So it was very cool for a time
in the august cavern of conference where Anson Anstruther, a bright
Ithuriel, struggled with the cautious and covetous Swiss preceptress,
and the swift steamer Chilian was far up the lake before Captain
the victorious Honorable Anson Anstruther, sped away to the morning
meeting with the woman who had seemed to lean down from the moon-lit
skies upon her young Endymion in that starry night by the throbbing
lake.

Major Alan Hawke, proceeding on his voyage, found a certain bitterness in
the distant mental contemplation of Captain Anstruther's employment
of his leisure till train time, not knowing that the young soldier's
sense of duty led him first to dispatch several careful official
dispatches, one to London, and the two others to Calcutta and Delhi,
respectively. When Captain Anstruther finally deposited his mail
with the head porter of the Grand Hotel National he deftly questioned
that functionary. "My friend--Major Hawke?"

"Gone up the lake for two or three days, sir. Going to Lausanne
and Chillon. Keeps all his luggage here, though. Shall I give him
any message for you?" With a view to artfully veiling his coming
meeting with the beautiful Egeria a la Houbigant, the captain
deposited a card marked "P. P. C."

"A devilish pleasant fellow and a right stunning hand at ecarte."
Anstruther prudently walked for a couple of squares, and then hailed
a passing voiture, directing him to the very cosiest restaurant in
the snug city of Bonnivard.

Major Hawke, far away now, entertained a slight resentment toward
the man who had so coolly aspired to les bonnes fortunes, and
ignored his own possible interference with the Lady of the Lake.
It was with a grim satisfaction, however, that he saw on the boat
the Misses Phenie and Genie Forbes, of Chicago, the bright particular
stars of the traveling upper tendom. "Popper" and "Mommer" were
deep in certain red-bound Baedeker's and busied in delving for
"historic facts," while the artful Alan Hawke glided into a fast
and familiar flirtation with the two bright-eyed, sharp-voiced
damsels. Both the heiresses were dressed as if for a reception,
with judiciously selected jewelry samples, evidencing the wondrous
success of machine conducted pig demolition. They glittered in the
sun as Fortune's bediamonded favorites.

And, so, while Madame Berthe Louison and Captain Anstruther lingered
au cabinet particulier, over their Chablis and Ostend oysters,
the recouped gambler extended his store of mental acquirement, by
tender converse with the two sprightly belles of the Windy City. In
fact, the whistle of the steamer was heard long before Alan Hawke
could extricate himself from the clinging tentacles of the audacious
beauties. He was somewhat repaid for his social exertions, however,
as he sped back to keep his tryst at Geneva, by the acquisition of
a large steel-engraved business card inscribed, "Forbes, Haygood
& Co., Chicago," loftily tendered him by "Popper." He smiled at
the whispered assurances of the Misses Phenie and Genie that they
"should soon meet again."

"Bring your friend--that other Lord," cried the departing Miss
Genie, waving a thousand-franc lace fan, as she sagely observed,
"Two's company--three's none. We'll have a jolly lark--us four.
Don't forget, now!" The polite Major laid his hand upon his heart
and played the amiable tiger, although burning inwardly now, in a
fierce personal jealousy of Anstruther as he wandered alone around
the cold gray halls of the museum, and gazed upon the pinched
features of the permanently eclipsed shining lights of the "Bulwark
of Civil and Religious Liberty." There was no charm for him in the
bigoted ferocity of Calvin's lean, dark face, smacking his thin
lips over the roasted Servetus. He abhorred the departed heroes
of the golden evolution from Eidegenossen into Higuerios and later
Huguenots. They interested him not, neither did he love Professor
Calame's scratchy pictures, nor the jumbled bric-a-brac of art and
history. None of these charmed him. He waited only for the gliding
step, the clasp of a burning hand, and the flash of the lustrous
dark-brown eyes. It was his own innings now.

He had referred to his watch for the fiftieth time, when, from a
closed carriage, the object of his mental vituperations gracefully
alighted at last. It was with the very coldest of bows that the
irritated man received the graceful, self-possessed woman, whose
lovely face was but partially hidden by her coquettishly dotted
veil.

"She dresses like a Parisienne, walks like an Andalu-sian, and
has all the seductiveness of a Polish countess!" the quick-witted
rascal thought, as they strolled into the museum, which the departed
General Rath knew not would be the scene of many a hidden love
intrigue, when he endowed it with a benevolent vanity. The two wary
strangers strolled along until they found a retired corner. Madame
Louison seated herself, waving her lace parasol with the impatient
gesture of one accustomed to command.

Alan Hawke was in no gentle humor, and his cheeks reddened as he
felt the calm scrutiny of the woman's searching glances. He was
now determined to take the whip hand, and to keep it. His accents
were staccato as he said, "Tell me now who you are, and what
you wish of me!" A clock, hung high over them on the dreary, drab
walls, ticked away brusquely, as the angered woman gazed steadily
into his face.

"And so your little windfall of last night has already made you
impudent? If you cannot find another tone at once, I will find
another agent! The man whom you plucked has told me the story of
your wonderful skill at cards!" The sneer cut the renegade like a
whip lash, and Alan Hawke sprang up in anger. Madame Berthe Louison
coolly settled herself down into the red cushions.

"The way to India is before you, but five hundred pounds is not
a fortune for Major Alan Hawke! Listen! I watched you carefully
yesterday, in your vigil upon Rousseau's Island. Your telltale face
betrayed you. You were left stranded here in Geneva. An accident
has brought us together. You cannot divine my motives. I can fathom
yours easily. Tell me now, of yourself, of your past in India--of
your present standing there. If you are frank, I may contribute to
your fortune; if not--our ways part here!"

"And, if I warn Anson Anstruther that you are a mere adventuress,
if I notify my old friend Hugh Fraser (soon to be Sir Hugh Johnstone),
then your little game will be spoiled, Madame Louison!" defiantly
said Hawke. The woman leaned back and laughed merrily in his face.

"You are like all professional lady killers, a mere fool in the
hands of the first woman of wit. I dare you to cross my path! I
will then join Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther, in Paris, at
the Hotel Binda! I will also see that you are excluded from every
club in India! Your occupation will be gone, my Knight of Ecarte.
Anstruther waits for me." She tossed him a card. "See for yourself.
He was kind enough at breakfast, and, he will help me, if I ask
him."

"And why do you not fly to his arms?" sneered Alan Hawke, who had
quickly resigned the bullying tone of his abordage.

"Because he is a nice boy and a gentleman," the woman said, with
a cutting emphasis. "Now, let me read you, Monsieur le Major, a
lesson in manners. Never be rough with a woman! That is the road
which always leads on to failure. I wish you a good appetite for
your breakfast, which I have delayed, and for which I beg your
pardon!" She rose and swept along with her Juno strides, and had
reached the second Hall of Antiquities before Alan Hawke overtook
her. It had flashed across his mind that he had for once in his
life met a woman who was not afraid of the future, whatever had
been her past. A single malicious letter from Anstruther would ruin
him in India, for there was an ominous cloud, no bigger than a man's
hand, lingering in that hiatus between his old rank of Lieutenant
of Bengal Artillery, and the shadowy tenure of his self-dubbed
Majority. This Aspasia hid none of her methods. She had boldly
captivated the passing Pericles, and, evidently, she was the desired
one.

"Let me explain," he began, as the woman looked calmly into his
face.

"We are only losing time, Major," Madame Louison remarked, as she
sought a corner. "I see that you have already repented. Do you know
any one in Geneva?"

"Not one of the seventy-five thousand here," frankly answered Hawke.
"The only man I came here to see, the English Consul, is away on
leave."

"Then I can use you safely," answered the stranger. "Now,
I owe you a breakfast. Will you put me in my carriage? I know the
town thoroughly. Remember that it is only business that brings us
together, and yet we may become better friends." In a half an hour
they were seated in an arbor by the lake, where a homely German
restaurant offered good cheer.

The Lady of the Lake did the honors ceremoniously, and Major Alan
Hawke was permitted a cigar after the lake trout, filet, pears,
cheese, Chambertin, and black coffee had been discussed. He was both
conquered and repentant, and had adroitly atoned for his mauvais
debut by a respectful demeanor, which was not feigned. He answered
the running fire of questions which had led him from Cape Comorin
to the Himalayas, and from Chittagong to the Khyber Pass.

"You are sure that no one in Geneva knows your face?" Berthe Louison
asked at last.

"I have been here only two days, and it is twenty years since I
first roved over Switzerland on schoolboy leave," was the truthful
answer.

"Then I can use you if you will decide to aid me, after you have
heard me. I know, already, all that young Anstruther knows of the
whole Johnstone matter. I do not intend to meet him at Paris," she
demurely said. "I am absolutely untrammeled in this world. I am
free to act as a woman's moods sway her. I have plenty of money,
a fact which lifts me above the degradation of man's chase, and
I indulge in no illusions. I am a soldier's daughter, and my dead
father was the son of one of Napoleon's heroes of La Grande Armee.
My whole life has been most unconventional; and I am free to dispose
of myself, body and soul, and will, but for one thing." She was
pleased with Alan Hawke's mute glance of inquiry. "Only the business
which brought me to Geneva! We are all the slaves of circumstance!
The veriest fools of fortune! I do not blame you for your surmises!
I had vainly sought, for two years, the very information which I
gained last night by chance at a Geneva table d'hote. It was from
Anstruther that I discovered the changed name under which Hugh
Fraser's daughter has been hidden from me for years. For I owe this
all to chance, to Anstruther's susceptibility, and to my playing
the risqu'e part which you saw fit me so well." The woman's eyes
were now flashing ominously.

"But you led me on--you deceived me!" stammered Alan Hawke.

"I had nothing to risk!" the resolute beauty replied. "My name
is not Berthe Louison, as you may well imagine! As for the little
amourette de voyage, I will leave the laurels to your handsome young
friend and yourself. I do not play with boys, and, as for you, I
should always guard myself against you!

"Now, I will be practical! I know Europe; I do not know India!
I need a man brave, cool, and unscrupulous; I need a resolute man
to aid me in the one purpose of my life! I wish to go out to India
to face this Hugh Fraser, to lift up the curtain of the dead past,
and I need a protector--a paid champion--a man who values the only
thing which is concrete power in life; a man who knows the power
of money!  For, gold is irresistible!" Her bright face hardened.

"My duties are, then, not to be of a tender nature," lightly hazarded
Hawke.

"I can soon judge of your value by your adroitness, and you can make
your own record!" smiled the strange woman waif. "Let me see how
you would do this! I do not care to personally approach Mademoiselle
Euphrosyne Delande, I would have a picture of the woman whom I
seek--the lonely child whom I have hungered for long years to see!
I do not care to expose myself here--"

"The Preceptress might telegraph out to India and the girl be
spirited away!" broke in Alan Hawke.

"Very good! Precisely so!" said Berthe Louison, gravely. "I will
tell you now that I have played perfectly fair with Anstruther! I
have enabled him to assure himself of Nadine Johnstone's regular
standing as the legal and only heiress of the would-be Baronet! I do
not fear Anstruther! He is a gallant boy, worthy to wear a sword,
and, he does not work for hire! He tells me that Euphrosyne Delande
showed him the last pictures of the girl which were sent on before
Hugh Fraser suddenly telegraphed to have his child 'personally
conducted' on carte blanche terms out to join him."

Major Hawke buried his head in his hands and slowly said: "I can
do it easily! We must not be seen together here! Go up to the Hotel
Faucon, at Lausanne, and wait for me there for three days. I have
to remain here at any rate to collect Anstruther's check in London.
I have in my favor all the facts of Anstruther's story. I happen
also to have Anstruther's P. P. C. card. I will bring you the
picture you want, or a half dozen copies. Will you trust to me? I
make no professions!"

"That is right!" sternly said Berthe Louison. "Let our casual
association be one of a mere money interest. We can find each other
out easily. You have no motive to injure me, your own interest now
and always lies the other way. I only wish to have some one at hand
when I am ready to face the embryo Sir Hugh Johnstone!"

"You are bold!" slowly said Alan Hawke. "If I should denounce you
to Johnstone, himself! If he should be warned--"

"I hold him and his long cherished dream, the Baronetcy, in my
hand," the brown-eyed beauty frankly cried. "I should not burn my
ships in Europe! Even if I were to be betrayed, the purpose of my
life will be carried out. I should leave here behind me the safest
of anchors in other well-paid agents. Your rash meddling would only
ruin your own money interests and not hurt my plans."

"Then we are to make an offensive and defensive alliance without
trust or faith in each other?" agnostically remarked Hawke.

"Just so!" answered Madame Louison. "I can make it to your interest
to serve me well, better than the man whom I wish to face. You know
India--you happen to know Delhi. Your possible adversary is an old
civilian, rich, retired, and unable to rake up trouble for you in
military circles. I will do my work alone, but I shall want your
aid, and I will pay you liberally. I will go up to Lausanne. You
will find me at the Hotel Faucon. Bring up some route maps of India.
We will go out as soon as possible. Do you wish any present money?"

Alan Hawke reddened as he shook his head.

"Then, Major Hawke, if you will take the first passing carriage,
we will meet as soon as you have succeeded. Send me a telegram of
your coming." The adventurer's low bow of silent assent terminated
the strange breakfast scene, and at the gate of the vine-clad garden
he turned and saw her seated there alone, with her head bowed in
a reverie.

"Damme if she is made of flesh and blood!" mused the Major, as he
drove back to the Hotel National. That very evening he revenged
himself upon the callous-hearted stranger, by a reckless flirtation
with the Misses Phenie and Genie Forbes, still of Chicago. It was
not a matter of concern to any one but Paterfamilias Forbes that
the Major indulged in a stolen moonlight excursion upon the lake
in charge of two extremely prononcee Daisy Millers. The Major's
slumbers, however, were of the lightest, for the face of the
chance-met directress of his immediate future haunted his uneasy
dreams. He was a model of respectable gravity, however, when he
presented himself before Mademoiselle Euphrosyne Delande, at her
Institute, when the bells clanged ten in the morning. Major Hawke
at once impressed the sleek door-opener, Francois, by the ultra
refinement of his demeanor, and the suave elegance of his French.
"Evidently the one necessary Adam in this Garden of undeveloped
young Peris," thought Hawke, as he gazed around the cheerless room,
with its globes, busts of departed sages, topographical maps, and
framed samples of the "Execution" of the jeunes personnes, with
brush and pencil.

"Looks breachy, that fellow--they all have to sneak out to drink,
and for les fetifs plaisirs! He may be made useful. I'll have a shy
at him," mused the Major, now on his mettle. Francois stood there
expectant of a tip, when he announced the regrets of Mademoiselle
Delande, that class duties would detain her for a few moments.

"Would Monsieur kindly pardon, etc.?"

"Am I right in inferring that the ladies, are the daughters of the
famous Professor Delande?" the Major hazarded, with a wild guess.
Before the votary of Minerva finally descended, Francois had artfully
"yielded up" much valuable information to the gravely interested
visitor. The attendant was the richer by a five-franc piece when
he retired to vigorously fall upon the Major's hat and brush it in
an anticipatory manner.

It was but a half an hour later when Alan Hawke had concluded his
deftly worded compliments upon the justly famed Institute, and had
subjugated the still susceptible spinster by his adroitly veiled
flatteries. The easy aplomb with which he introduced the forgotten
commission of Captain Anstruther was aided by the presentation of
that gentleman's visiting card, and the charms of an interesting
word sketch of Delhi and its surroundings.

The sound of distant girlish voices punctuated the refined murmur
of the ensuing conference, which was an exposition of Mademoiselle
Delande's grand manner! Hawke adroitly soothed the natural uneasiness
of the cunning Swiss spinster as to her sister's comfort, safety, and
the surety of Hugh Johnstone's fabulously liberal money inducement
to retain Miss Justine in his service for a year. The flattered
woman fell easily into Alan Hawke's net, and she freely dilated
upon the singular eccentricities of the Indian magnate as to his
daughter's education.

There was a breaking light now illumining the strange childhood of
a girl, nurtured by proxy, and kept in ignorance of her brilliant
future and vast monetary inheritance.

"In fact, I have never seen the honored Mr. Hugh Fraser," concluded
Miss Euphrosyne. "Nadine was brought to us a child of three by the wife
of Professor Fraser, since deceased! And, by special arrangement,
she was taken by us, and her whole girlhood has been passed in
our charge. We have never seen her uncle, Professor Fraser, whose
duties at Edinburgh University chained him down. It was her own
father's written and positive direction that no one, whomsoever,
should be admitted to converse with his child. And so Justine and
myself have formed her entirely!"

Hawke's keen eyes glowed for a moment, in a secret satisfaction.
"I have you, my lady! They wished to keep you away from this young
Peri, formed upon such heroically antique models." Major Hawke
gazed upon the leather-faced visage of the slaty-eyed woman, whose
age none might venture to guess. An artless admiration of the
absent Miss Justine's photographed charms, caused a faint glow to
flicker upon the ancient maiden's cheek. When Alan Hawke drew forth
a hideous carbuncle and Indian filigree bracelet (an old relic
of bazaar haunting), the thin lips of the preceptress parted in a
wintry smile.

With modest urging, he soon overcame the Roman firmness of Mademoiselle
Euphrosyne, and, wonder of wonders, was honored by an invitation
to dine with the austere Genevan maiden. The happy Major was soon
triumphant at all points, and Francois was hastily dispatched to
the Photographic Atelier to order a half dozen copies of the card
portrait which displayed to Alan Hawke the rosebud face of the
Veiled Beauty of Delhi. The adventurer made haste to excuse himself
for interrupting the flow of the Parnassian stream, and walked
backward from the presence of the poor old woman whom he had duped,
as if she were a queen.

It was an easy matter for the Englishman to waylay and intercept
the returning man-at-arms of this castle of cosmopolitan beauty.
Francois had duly availed himself of his lengthened absence,
and his thick tongue and swimming eye spoke of potations of the
Kirsch-wasser dear to the Swiss heart. Major Hawke impressed the
servitor with the necessity of bringing the pictures down to his
rooms upon the morrow, and then the Major judiciously duplicated his
five-franc piece. The happy butler winked with an acute divination
of the Major's purpose and went unsteadily back to the whirlpool
of learning. The Major cheerfully went on his own way to meet Miss
Genie Forbes, with whom he had established a private understanding
as to a runaway visit to the Cathedral, to be followed by an
impromptu breakfast. "I can stand the old Gorgon's dinner," mused
the happy adventurer, "after a tete-a-tete with Miss Genie, and as
for Francois, I will also waste a bottle of good Cognac on him. I
think that I will start into this strange partnership with a better
stock of family history than even this remarkably self-possessed
young woman, who seems to be the heiress of some old family vendetta."

The Major laughed as he heard the mills of the gods grinding out a
golden grist of the future. But lifted up beyond the impulses of
his itching palm the sight of the delicate, girlish face of the
Rosebud of Delhi had caused him to dream the strangest dreams. "Why
not?" he murmured as he wandered back to the hotel and privately
indulged in a petit verre before his rendezvous with Miss Genie,
the belle of the West Side. Major Alan Hawke was in "great form"
as he piloted the bright-eyed, willful Chicago girl through the dim
religious light of the Cathedral. His mocking history of the gay
life and racy adventures of Bonnivard, when posing as the rollicking
Prior of St.  Victor in the wild days of his youth, greatly amused
the nervous American heiress.

"I should say that he was a holy terror," laughed Miss Genie, "and I
don't blame the Bishop of Geneva and the Duke of Savoy for making
him do his six years in that dark old hole at Chillon! He was
a gay boy, you bet, and with his three wives and his lively ways,
I reckon the Genevans were blamed sorry they ever let him out. He
seems to have been a free thinker, a free liver, and a free lover!"

"And yet," mused Alan Hawke, "his writings to-day are the pride
of Genevan scholars; his library was the nucleus of the Geneva
University; his defiant spirit broke the chains of Calvin's narrowness,
and his resistant, spiritual example caught up has made Geneva the
home of the oppressed, the central, radiant point of mental light
and liberty for the world! Geneva since 1536 has harbored the
brightest wandering Spanish, French, English, and Irish youth! Even
grim Russia cannot reclaim from the free city its wayward exiles.
France, in her distress, has found an asylum here for its helpless
nobles and expelled philosophers. I willingly take my hat off to
brave little Switzerland, where Royal Duke, proscribed patriot,
mad enthusiast, bold agnostic, and tired worldling can all find an
inviolate asylum under the majestic shadows of its mountains--by
the shores of its dreaming lakes!" Alan Hawke dropped suddenly from
the clouds as the practical Miss Genie led the way to the breakfast
rendezvous, cheerfully demonstrating her own bold ideas of social
freedom by remarking:

"Say! what's the matter with a little day's run up to Chillon?
Phenie is game for anything! You just get that other English Lord
and we will dodge Popper and Mommer."

"I am sorry to say that my friend has left suddenly, bound for
London," laughed the Major, gazing admiringly at this pretty feminine
Bonnivard.

"That's awful bad luck!" gloomily remarked Miss Genie. "He was a
regular dandy, and I liked him--but," she said, with a thirsty peck
at a glass of champagne, as they waited for the breakfast, "Phenie
will then have to give that long-legged Italian fellow the tip. The
Marquis of Santa Marina! He's not much, but better than nothing at
all. We'll have a jolly day!"

Major Hawke was mystified at the daring personal independence of
the sprightly young heiress. She was a social revelation to him,
and the sunny afternoon was not altogether thrown away, for they
carelessly rambled over the proud old town together, doing all
the sights. They visited the stately National Monument, the Jardin
Anglais, the Hotel de Ville, the Arsenal, the Muse'e Foy, the
Botanic Gardens, and the Athende. He gazed upon the fresh face of
the rebellious young American social mutineer with an increasing
wonder as they wandered alone on the Promenade des Bastions, and
was simply astounded when he vainly tried to take advantage of a
shady corner in the Musee Ariana to steal a kiss from the wayward
girl's rosy lips. Miss Genie "formed herself into a hollow square"
and calmly, but energetically, repulsed him.

"See here! Major Hawke!" she coolly said, "get off the perch! I
don't care for any soft sawder! I'm a pretty good fellow in my way,
but I know how to take care of myself!"

In fact, Major Alan Hawke at last recognized the existence of
a species of womanhood which he had never before met. Miss Genie
was frankly unconventional, and yet she was both hard-headed and
hardhearted. When he carefully dressed himself for the intellectual
feast of Mademoiselle Delande's "refined collation," he dimly
became aware that the role of unpaid bear leader to the Chicago
girl simply amounted to being an unsalaried valet de place! "As for
compromising that devil of a girl," he growled, "she could have
given the snake in the Garden of Eden long odds and beaten him
hollow, in subtlety." This view of the impeccability of the Chicago
epidermis was confirmed later when Hawke returned from the "Institute"
at the decorous hour of ten that evening. He was thoroughly happy,
for the sly Francois was ready to meet him at the door, whispering:

"I will be at your rooms at ten, and bring you the photographs. I
have a couple of hours of freedom then."

Mademoiselle Euphrosyne's pale, anemic nature had bloomed out under
the graceful attentions of the gallant officer, and gradually she
expanded, little by little unfolding the desiccated leaves of her
tranquil past, and, yielding, as of old, to the charm of youth and
good looks, the faded spinster told him all.

"I will sell my precious knowledge, bit by bit, to Madame Berthe,"
he ruminated. "Evidently the Louison dares not face this stony-faced
Swiss Medusa. The felites histoires of Francois will fill up my
mental notebook." Major Hawke then sat down at ease in the cafe
of the Hotel National to indite a dispatch of spartan brevity to
"Madame Louison" at the Hotel Faucon, Lausanne. "The Cook's Agency
tell me that the London draft will be paid to-morrow. Francois
will deliver me the photographs, and relate his selected historical
excerpts, and then I will be ready to have a duel of wits with
Madame Berthe." So he simply telegraphed to Lausanne:

"Successful--arrive to-morrow night." He then dispatched the head
porter with the telegram, and while enjoying his parting brandy and
soda, was suddenly made aware of the near proximity of Mr. Phineas
Forbes of Chicago, who was anxiously drinking cocktail after
cocktail in a moody unrest. The lank Chicago capitalist waved his
tufted chin beard dejectedly as he answered the Briton's casual
salutation. "I'm worried about the girls," he simply said. "They're
off on the lake, with the Marquis de Santa Marina and that French
chap, the Count de Roquefort. I don't more than half like it." The
hour was late, and the heavy father glued his eyes upon the darkened
window pane. "Is Madame Forbes with them?" murmured the Englishman.

"Oh, Lord, no!" simply said the Illinois capitalist. "The girls
are used to going out alone with their gentlemen friends, but I'm
afraid that these two damned useless foreigners will upset the boat
and drown my two girls. I wouldn't care a rap if they were alone.
But these Dago noblemen are no good--at least that's my experience.
I indorsed a draft for one of them that Mommer and the girls dragged
up to the house last year. Came back marked 'N. G.'--I wish to God
the girls wouldn't pick up these fellows."

Alan Hawke hazarded the inquiry "Why do you permit it?"

The Chicago pork jammer thrust his hand in his pockets and whistled
reflectively. "How the deuce can I help it?" he reflectively
answered, "Mother and the girls go in for high society. What'll you
have? You can talk French to this fellow. Now, order up the best
in the house," Alan Hawke laughed and charitably divided the hour
of long waiting with the simple-hearted old father. At half-past
twelve, with a rush and a flutter, the two young falcons sailed into
the main hallway and effusively bade adieu to their limp cavaliers,
who slunk away, in different directions, when they observed the
disgruntled parent and the heartily amused Briton.

"So they brought you home safely?" calmly remarked Hawke, as he
watched the happy father gathering his chickens unto his wing.

"We brought them home safe," cutely remarked Miss Phenie. "Those
fellows are heavenly dancers, but they are not worth shucks in a
boat. I wish we had had you out with us. I like Englishmen!" with
which frank declaration Miss Phenie and Miss Genie whisked themselves
away to bed, Miss Genie leaning over the banister to jovially cry
out:

"Don't you go away till we fix up that Chillon trip." Major Hawke
and Phineas Forbes, Esq., drank a last libation to the friendly
god Neptune, the old man huskily remarking:

"Say, Major, those are two fine girls, and they will have a million
apiece. I want 'em to be sensible and marry Chicago men, but, they
both go in for coronets and all that humbug." The laughing Major
extricated himself from the social tentacles of the honest old boy,
mentally deciding to play off Miss Genie against Mad-ame Berthe
Louison.

"I will give these strange girls 'a day out.' It may reduce the
nez retrousseeoi my mysterious employer." And so he dreamed that
night that he was an assistant presiding genius of the great pig
Golgotha, where Phineas Forbes was the monarch of the meat ax.
"Right smart girls, and you bet they can take care of themselves,"
was the last encomium of their self-denying parent which rang in
Alan Hawke's ears as he wandered away into the Land of Nod.

"They are a queer lot," laughed the happy schemer, as he woke next
day to his closing labors at Geneva. "Now, for my check cashing,
then, Monsieur Francois, a farewell visit to Miss Euphrosyne, and
a secret council with the fair Genie," He merrily breakfasted, and
was more than rewarded for his Mephistophelian entertainment of
Francois. The sly Figaro "parted freely," and when he slunk back
to the "Institute" he was the richer by fifty francs. Major Hawke
was the happy possessor of the coveted photographs, and a private
address of Francois, artfully informing that person that he was going
to London, and on his return, in a few months, desired a cicerone
in the hypocritically placid town. Francois's eyes gleamed in a
happy anticipation of more Cognac and many easily earned francs.
"Now, Madame Berthe, I think I have the key of the enigma! I see
a year's assured comfort before me, for I can play the part of the
Saxon troops at Leipzig," the schemer joyously ruminated.

His farewell to Miss Delande impressed that thrifty dame with
the golden fortunes which had descended upon her sister. "Should
you return to India, Major," she sibillated, "I will give you
a confidential letter to Justine, for I know there is no one more
fitted to remain in charge of sweet Nadine than my dear sister!"
The Major blushingly accepted the honor, and directed the letter to
be sent at once to Morley's Hotel, for, as he mysteriously whispered,

"The Foreign office may send me back to India--in fact, I may be
telegraphed for at any moment, and your sister will surely find a
fast friend in me."

"Easily gulled!" laughed Alan Hawke. "I will sweeten' upon Miss
Justine; those thin lips indicate the auri sacra fames. These
miserly Swiss sisters may aid me to approach the veiled Rose Bird."
His delight at fingering the crisp proceeds of Anstruther's check
sent him to the Ouchy steamer in the very happiest of moods,
and, his cup was running over when the birdlike Miss Genie Forbes
descended upon him to announce a meeting on the morrow at Montreux.

"We can do the castle, and essay the airy railroad at Territet
Glion, have a jolly dinner on the hill, and come home on the last
boat! You be sure to meet Phenie and me." The astounded Major
murmured his delight and surprise. "Oh! Popper will let us go
up there. He likes you--he says that you are a thoroughbred. So,
we'll cut the other fellows and come alone. Say, can't you scare
up another fellow like yourself for Phenie?" Whereat Alan Hawke
laughed, and promised to secure an eligible "fellow" among the
migratory Englishmen hovering around Lausanne-Ouchy, and he pledged
a future friendship with the patient Phineas Forbes, who lingered
in the cafe, engulfing cocktails, while "Mother and Phenie were out
shopping." The vivacious Genie had confided to her callous swain
that she had watched him as he lingered on Rousseau's Island.

"I rather thought that you were sick and distressed, you looked
so peaked like, and I was mighty near speaking to you. I was just
bound to meet you." And upon this frank declaration, Alan Hawke
kissed her firm white hand, agreeing to her plans, and the glow of
prosperity shone out upon his impassive face, as he glided away to
meet the strange woman whom he distrusted. "I hold the trump cards
now, my lady!" he cried, as he watched Miss Genie's handkerchief
fluttering on the quay. Major Alan Hawke wasted no time in his
three hours' voyage to Lausanne-Ouchy in carefully preparing for
his interview with Madame Berthe Louison. He abandoned the idea of
trying the "whip hand," remembering how suddenly he had descended
from the "high horse." "Bah! She is about as sentimental as a
rat-tail file.  However, she is good for my passage to India, at
any rate, and, the nearer I am to old Johnstone and this pretty
heiress to be, the better my all-round chances are." So, he contented
himself with watching the pictured shores of Lake Leman glide by,
and wondering if he might not turn aside safely to the chase of the
bright-eyed, sharp-featured, Miss Genie Forbes. He had profited by
Phineas Forbes's frank disclosures, and yet the Madame Sans Gene
manners of the heiresses rather frightened him. He was aware from
the amatory failure in the dim old cathedral that Miss Genie was
armed cap-a-fie. "Those American girls, apparently so approachable,
are all ready to stand to arms at a moment's notice." And so, he
drifted back in his day dreams toward the Land of the Pagoda Tree,
with Ouchy and Chillon. He studied the beautiful face of the lonely
child from the school-girl photograph, and decided, in spite of
hideous frocks and a lack of conventional war paint, that she was
a rare beauty.

"Yes! She will do--with the money. All she needs is the art to show
off her points, and that is easily gained. The recruits in Vanity
Fair easily pick up the tricks of society, and old Hugh's money and
prospective elevation will surely draw suitors around like flies
swarming near the honey." The boat gracefully glided in to the port
of Ouchy before Major Hawke's day dream faded away.

A flattering dream which led him on to a future gilded by Sir Hugh
Johnstone's money. He longed to ruffle it bravely with the best.
To hold up his head once more in official circles, and to smother
the ugly floating memories ef a renegade who had served those English
guns under the fierce Sikkim hill tribes against his one-time fellow
soldiers. "I must have that money, with or without the girl! There
must be a way to it! I will cut through the barriers to get it!"
There was a steely glitter in his blue eyes as he murmured: "Now
for the fox's hide! She shall have her way--for a time! My play
comes on later, when the deal is with me!"

He sprang lightly ashore, and was chatting with the gold-banded
porter of the Hotel Faucon, when a lovely face, thrilling in its
awakened emotion, met his glance at the window of a carriage. He
dispatched his luggage to the Faucon, and sprang lightly in the
carriage when the omnibuses had departed for the Lausanne plateau.
Alan Hawke was carefully differential in his greeting and he meekly
answered all the rapid queries of his mysterious employer.

"You have closed up your own private affairs?" she briskly queried.

"All is ready for the road in one day more. I have a private social
engagement for to-morrow," he replied. "But I brought you all the
sailing dates and the detailed information you requested."

"You obtained the pictures safely, then, and with a prudent caution,"
anxiously demanded Madame Louison.

"You shall know all soon. I hope that I have satisfied you!" he
said, handing her a packet, failing to tell her that he had kept
two pictures of the far-away girl for his own private use. They were
now near the plateau where the Hotel Faucon shows its semi-circular
front to the splendid panorama unrolled before its windows.

An afternoon concert was in progress at the Casino, near the local
museum. "We will stop here for a few moments," said the excited
woman. "You can go on alone, and walk over to the hotel and secure
your own rooms. Then send your card up to me in the usual manner.
To-night we will go out separately and meet for a conference. We
can arrange all our business." The Major bowed submissively, and
assisted the lady to alight.

Madame Louison dismissed her carriage, and the confederates-to-be
entered the afternoon concert room. A superb orchestra was playing
the finishing bars of the last number on the program, and the audience
had dwindled away to a few knots of demure residents.  Following
his passive policy, the adventurer sat silently, stealing oblique
glances at his companion as she nervously unfolded the wrappings of
the coveted pictures. There was a gasp, a low moan, as the woman's
head fell back. Alan Hawke's strong arms were clasped round her, as
she leaned back helplessly in her fauteuil. But a smile of secret
triumph was on his face as he quickly bore the helpless form to an
anteroom at once opened by the frightened ushers. Berthe Louison's
face was corpse-like in its pallor, as she lay there upon a divan,
her fingers still clutching the photograph.

"There is a physician near by," hazarded a sympathetic woman who
had crowded into the room. The music had stopped with a crash.

"Summon him at once!" energetically ordered Hawke. "Some brandy--quick!"
he cried, listening to her agonized words, "Valerie!  My God! It
is Valerie herself! My poor sister!" In a few moments an elderly
man parted the assembling loiterers. His bustling air of command
soon dispelled the loiterers. A woman attendant was bending over
the still senseless woman as the spectacled medico seized Alan
Hawke's arm. "Has your wife ever had a previous heart attack?" he
gravely asked, as he opened his lancet case. Major Hawke shook his
head, and gazed pityingly upon the beautiful pallid face before
him.

"Can I be of any use to Monsieur?" demanded the chef d'orchestre
in evening grand tenue, his baton still in his hand.

There was a glance of wondering astonishment as the Englishman faced
the speaker. "Wieniawski--Casimir, you here?" The other dropped his
voice as the physician ripped up the sleeve of the patient's gown.

"Major Hawke, I thought you were still in Delhi? Your wife--"
faltered the artist, as he listened to a low moan when the lancet
blade entered the ivory arm of the sufferer. Then, with a backward
step, he pressed his hands to his brows. "My God! It is Alixe
Delavigne!" he brokenly said. But Hawke sprang to his side and
quickly drew him from the room.

"Not a word! Not a single word to any one! Where are you stopping?
I will come to you tonight!" the excited man sternly said, his firm
hand still clutching the musician's arm.

"Here, at the Casino! Come in after ten! I will await you! But
where did you meet her?" the Polish violinist cried, speaking as
if in a dream.

"You shall know all later! I must get her to the hotel!" He returned
to the physician's side, who authoritatively cried, "Now an easy
carriage and to the Faucon, you said?" In half an hour, Berthe
Louison was sleeping, a nurse at her side, while Alan Hawke counted
the moments crawling on till ten o'clock.


CHAPTER III.

AND AT DELHI WHAT AM I TO DO?


Major Alan Hawke was the "observed of all observers," in the cosy
salon of the Grand Hotel Faucon, when the sympathetic hotel manager
interrupted a colloquy between the handsome Briton and the Doctor.
"A mere syncope, my dear sir. Perhaps--even only the result of
tight lacing, or inaction. Perhaps some sudden nerve crisis. These
are the results of the easy luxury of an enervating high-life. All
these social habits are weakening elements. Now, fortunately, your
wife has a singularly strong vital nature. You may safely dismiss
all your fears. Madame will be entirely herself in the morning."

"Can I be of any service?" demanded the genial host, secretly urged
on by a coterie of curious, womanly sympathizers in silk and muslin.

"I am the trustee of Madame Louison, in some important business
matters, and not her husband," gravely remarked the Major. "I only
came up here to confer with her upon some matters of moment." Both
the listeners bowed in silence.

"Then, my dear sir, you can be perfectly reassured," the physician
briskly concluded, tendering his card. "My professional conscience
will not allow me to make even a single future visit, as doctor,
to the charming Madame Louison. Should Madame awake in other than
her normal health and spirits, I should be professionally at fault."

Major Hawke then led the doctor aside and pressed a five-pound
note upon him. "Madame is of a wonderfully strong constitution.
An heiress of nature's choicest favors," the happy Galen floridly
said, as he took his leave.

"So she is," grimly assented Hawke.

The gossipy boniface was already spreading such meager details of
the sudden seizure as he had been able to pick up, and, the words
"Polish noblewoman," "Italian marchesa," "French countess," were
tossed about freely in the light froth of the conversation in the
ladies' drawing-room.

Meanwhile, Alan Hawke was smoking a meditative cigar alone, while
pacing the old Cantonal high road before the Faucon. "I think I will
remain on picket here," he mused. "This fiddler fellow, Wieniawski,
must not meet her. She must be led on to leave here at once.
Constitution, nerve, aplomb; she has them all. She should have been
born a man. What a soldier! One of nature's mistakes--man's mental
organization, woman's soft, flooding emotions, and beauty's fiery
passions."

"I must pump Casimir. He will be safely nailed to the platform
by his duties, from eight to ten. I will not leave her a moment,
however, till he has the baton in his hand. I will then watch
him until ten--meet him down there, and, if he meets her after we
separate for the night, he is a smarter Pole than I take him for.
And now I must go and frighten her away from here."

Major Hawke was quick to note all the outer indications of man's
varying fortunes. He had so long buffeted the waves of adversity
himself that he was a past master of the art of measuring the depth
of a hidden purse. He recalled the brilliant Casimir Wieniawski
of eight years past--the curled darling of the hot-hearted ladies
of Calcutta, Madras, Bombay and Singapore. In a glance of cursory
inspection Alan Hawke had noted the doubtful gloss of the dress suit;
it was the polish of long wear, not the velvety glow of newness.
There was a growing bald spot, scarcely hidden by the Hyperion Polish
curls; there were crows'-feet around the bold, insolent eyes, and
the man's smile was lean and wolfish when the glittering white teeth
flashed through the professional smirk of the traveling artist.
The old, easy assurance was still there, but cognac had dulled the
fires of genius; the tones of the violin trembled, even under the
weakening but still magic fingers, and the splendid sapphire and
diamond cluster ring of old was replaced by a too evident Palais
Royal work of inferior art.

"Poor devil! It is the downward fluttering of the wearied eagle!"
mused Alan Hawke. "Women, roulette, champagne, and high life--all
these past riches fade away into the gloomy pleasures of restaurant
cognac, dead-shot absinthe, and the vicarious smiles of a broken
soubrette or so! And all the more you can be now dangerous to me,
Monsieur Casimir Wieniawski, for the old maneater forgets none of
his tricks, even when toothless."

Casimir, the handsome Pole, glib of tongue, the heir to a thousand
minor graces, reckless in outpouring the wine of Life, had truly
gone the downward way with all the abandon of his showy, insincere
race. Hawke well knew the final level of misery awaiting the
wandering, broken-down artist here in a land where really fine
music was a mere drug; where the orchestra was only a cheap lure
to enhance the cafe addition. The "Professor" was but a minor staff
officer of the grim Teutonic Oberkellner of the Brasserie Concert.

"But how shall I muzzle this Robert Macaire of the bow?" cogitated
Hawke, as he anxiously eyed the two windows of Madame Louison's
rooms, and then sternly gazed at the open front doors of the Hotel
Faucon.

A light broke in upon his brain. "There is the golden lure of the
Misses Phenie and Genie Forbes, of Chicago, U. S. A. Those madcap
girls will be easily gulled. They arrive to-morrow at nine. A few
stage asides, as to the stock romance of every Polish upstart, will
do the trick!"

"Russian brutality, fugitive Prince, Siberian wanderings, romantic
escape, killed the Russian general who burned his chateau; all
that sort of thing will enchant these. This may occupy Casimir and
leave me free. When the devil is idle he catches flies, and under
the cover of this rosy glow of romance I will get away to India,
but only after Madame Alixe Delavigne goes. I can afford to put in
ten pounds on Casimir to loosen his lying tongue. In vino veritas
may apply even to a gallant and distinguished Pole. If I can get the
true story of Alixe Delavigne's life, then I have the key of the
Johnstone mystery. Ah! There is now a duty signal for me!" The
Major smartly approached the main entrance of that cosiest of Swiss
family hotels, the Faucon, as the anxious face of a woman nurse
appeared.  "Madame veut bien voir Monsieur!" simply announced the
servant.  Major Hawke brushed by her with a nod and quickly mounted
the stair.  To his utter surprise, on entering Madame Berthe
Louison's apartment, the signs of an approaching departure were
but too evident. A stout Swiss maiden was busied stolidly packing
several trunks in an indiscriminate haste, while the fair invalid
herself sat at the center table poring over an opened Baedeker
and the outspread maps brought on by her "business agent." Hawke's
murmured astonishment was at once cut short by the decisive notes
of Berthe Louison's flutelike voice.

"We have no time to waste, Major!" she said, with an affected
cheerfulness. "I am all right now. There is an eleven-thirty train
for Constance. I will take that, reach Munich, and get right over
to Venice by the Brenner Pass, and thence go down to Aricona, and
Brindisi. You can return to Geneva, and, by Mont Cenis and Turin
you will reach Brindisi before me. So, I leave to-night; you can
go up to Geneva to-morrow night. No one will possibly suspect our
business connection in this way. I will have time to see you depart
for Bombay, before I take the steamer for Calcutta. I have marked
off the sailings. This little occurrence here to-night has brought
us both too much under the eyes of other people."

"Bah!" said the astounded Major. "No one knows anything of us here.
We are of no importance."

"You think so?" mused the woman, as if careless of his presence.
"And yet I have seen a face here, rising out of a past that is long
dead and buried. Now, are you ready to meet me at Brindisi?"

Alan Hawke blushed even through the sun-browned complexion of the
Nepaul days, as the clear-eyed woman, faintly smiling, discerned
his "hedging" policy.

"You will not be put to the slightest inconvenience." She opened
a handsome traveling bag. The falcon-eyed Major Hawke observed the
gleam of a pearl handled and silver chased revolver of serviceable
make, and there was also a very wicked-looking Venetian dagger lying
on the table, even then within the lady's reach! "Here is the sum
of five hundred pounds in English notes," said Berthe. "That will
neatly take you to Delhi, and there is fifty more to liquidate
my bill, and pay the medical expenses. I am not desirous that the
landlord should know of my departure. You may bring all my trunks
on. I will be waiting for you at the 'Vittorio Emmanuele' at
Brindisi. Please do telegraph to me from Turin of your arrival."

Cool globe-trotter as he was, Alan Hawke was speechless. "Shall I
not see you safely on board the Constance train?" he muttered.

"The nurse will attend to all that; money will do a great deal,"
the lady said. "I will send her back from Constance. Please do
ring the bell." The Major was obedient, and he listened in dumb
astonishment, as Madame Louison ordered a very dainty supper for two,
with a bottle of Burgundy and a well-iced flask of Veuve Cliquot.
When the door had closed upon the gaping servant, the lady merrily
laughed:

"Pray take up your sinews of war, Major. I shall consider you as
retained in my service, if I am obeyed."

Alan Hawke turned and faced the puzzling "employer" with a half
defiant question: "And when shall I know the real nature of my
duties?" as he carefully folded up the welcome bundle of notes,
without even looking at them.

"Major, you are not an homme d'affaires. Do me the favor to count
your money," laughed the mocking convalescent. "Thank you," continued
the lady as he obeyed her. "Now I will only detain you here till
ten o'clock. Then you must disappear and not know me again until
we meet at the Hotel Vittorio Emmanuele at Brindisi. Should any
accident occur, you are to take the Sepoy for Bombay direct and go
on to Delhi. Leave me a letter at Suez and also one at Aden, care
P. and O. Company. I will ask at each of these places. I will go
direct to Calcutta, and will then meet you at Delhi. Arriving at
Delhi, you may telegraph to me care Grindlay & Co., Calcutta."

"I wonder if she bled Anstruther," inwardly growled Hawke, as he
recognized the name of that social butterfly's bankers. But the
lady only sweetly continued: "I have some business in Calcutta. You
can write to me at the general postoffice at Allahabad, and leave
your Delhi address there. I shall probably telegraph for you to
come down and meet me there."

Major Hawke, neatly entering the lady's directions in a silver-clasped
betting book, murmured lazily without lifting his eyes: "You seem
to know a great deal about Hindostan."

"I have made a careful study of it for years--long years," said
the woman with a telltale flush of color, as the servants entered
with the impromptu feast.

They were left alone, at an imperious signal, and Madame Louison
bade Hawke regale himself en garcon. The Major paused with suspended
pencil, as he quietly approached the decisive question: "And at
Delhi, what am I to do?"

"You are to take up your old friendship with Hugh Fraser--this
budding baronet," replied Berthe calmly. She was pouring out a
glass of the wine beloved of women, but her hand trembled as she
hastily drank off the inspiring fluid. "All this is bravo--mere
bravo! She's a very smart woman, and a cool customer!" decided the
schemer, who had filled himself up a long drink. He took up at once
the object-lesson. They were simply to be comrades--and nothing
more.

"I will obey you to the very letter," he said simply, for he was
well aware the woman was keenly watching him.

"Then that is all. There is nothing more," soberly concluded his
companion. "The letters at Suez and Aden are, of course, to be
mere billets de voyage. The correspondence at Allahabad may cover
all of moment. Can you not give me a safe letter and telegraph
address at Delhi?"

"Give me your notebook," said Alan Hawke, as he carefully wrote
down the needed information: "Ram Lal Singh, Jewel Merchant, 16
Chandnee Chouk, Delhi."

"There's the address of my native banker; and as trusty a Hindu as
ever sold a two-shilling strass imitation for a hundred-pound star
sapphire. But, in his way he is honest--as we all are." And then
Alan Hawke boldly said: "How shall I address you at Allahabad?"

The flashing brown eyes gleamed a moment with a brighter luster
than pleasure's glow. "You have my visiting card, Major," the woman
coldly said. "I travel with a French passport, always en regie."

"By God! she has the nerve!" mused Alan Hawke, as he hastily said:
"And now, as we have settled all our little preliminaries, when am
I to know whether you trust me or not?"

He was pressing his advantage, for her precipitate departure would
rob him of the expected effect of Casimir Wieniawski's disclosures.
"If I find you en ami defamille, at Delhi, so that you can
confidentially approach Sir Hugh Johnstone, the ci-devant Hugh
Fraser, your task will be soon set for you, and your reward easily
earned; but under no circumstances are you to make the slightest
attempt to a confidential acquaintance with this wonderful Nadine.
That is my affair." The tone was almost trifling in its lightness,
but Alan Hawke recognized the hand of iron in the velvet glove.

"And now, Sir," coquettishly said Madame Berthe Louison, "you have
been a squire of dames in your day. Tell me of social India, for,
while I shall get a good maid out at Calcutta, I must depend upon
Munich, Venice, and Brindisi for my personal outfit. I know the
whole United Kingdom thoroughly. The Englishman and his cold-pulsed
blonde mate at home are well-learned lessons. The Continent, yes,
even Russia, I know, too," she gayly chattered; "but the Orient
is as yet a sealed book to me, and I would be helpless in Father
India, without the womanly gear appropriate to the social habits
of your countrywomen."

"You have lived in England?" briefly demanded Alan Hawke, in some
surprise at her frank admissions.

"Yes, too long!" sternly answered Madame Louison, who was enjoying
a cigarette, as she signed to the maid to leave them alone. "I
detest the foggy climate," she added, a little late to temper the
bitterness of the remark.

"I will lull this watchful feminine tiger," the Major secretly
decided, as he began a brilliant sketch of the social life of the
strange land of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva. "I presume, of course,
that you do not care to appear with a fifty-pound Marshall & Snell
grove outfit, as if you were the wife of an Ensign in a marching
regiment. I will give you the real life our women lead out there.
You could have secured a splendid London outfit by a little time
spent in making the detour."

"I wish to appear en Francaise, my true character," smiled Berthe.
"I never could sacrifice my Gaelic taste to the hideous color mixtures
and utilitarian ugliness of the English machine-made toilette. An
Englishwoman can only be trusted with a blue serge, a plain gray
traveling dress, or in the easy safety of black or white.  They are
not the 'glass of fashion and the mold of form.' Now, Sir, let me
see how you have profited by your wandering in Beauty's gardens on
the Indus and Ganges?"

Alan Hawke knew very well at heart what the quickwitted woman would
know. He sketched with grace, the natural features, the climatic
conditions, the bizarre scenery of the million and a half square
miles where the venerable Kaisar-i-Hind rules nearly two hundred
millions of subjugated people. He portrayed all the light splendors
of Mohammedan elegance, the wonders of Delhi and Agra, he sketched
the gloomy temple mysteries of Hinduism, and holy Benares rose up
before her eyes beneath the inspiration of his brilliant fancy.

The ardent woman listened with glowing eyes, as Hawke proudly referred
to the wonderful sweep of the sword of Clive, which conquered an
unrifled treasure vault of ages, annexed a giant Empire, and set
with Golconda's diamonds the scepter of distant England. The year
1756 was hailed by the renegade as the epoch when England's rule
of the sea became her one vitalizing policy--her first and last
national necessity--for the Empire of the waves followed the pitiful
beginning in Madras.

Temples, groves, and mosques peopled with the alien and warring
races were conjured up, the splendid viceregal circle, the pompous
headquarter military, the fast set, staid luxury-loving civilians,
and all the fierce eddies and undercurrents of the graded social
life, in which the cold English heart learns to burn as madly
under "dew of the lawn" muslin as ever Lesbian coryphe'e or Tzigane
pleasure lover.

The burning noons, the sweltering Zones of Death, the cool hills,
the Vanity Fair of Simla, the shaded luxury of bungalow life, and
the mad undercurrent of intrigue, the tragedy element of the Race
for Wealth, the Struggle for Place, and the Chase for Fame. Major
Alan Hawke was gracefully reminiscent, and in describing the
social functions, the habits of those in the swim, the inner core
of Indian life under its canting social and official husk, he brought
an amused smile to the mobile face of his beautiful listener. He did
not note the passage of time. He could now hear the music floating
up from the Casino below. He had answered all her many questions.
He described pithily the voyage out, the social pitfalls, the
essence of "good Anglo-Indian form," and he was astonished at the
keenness of the questions with which he was plied by his employer.

"You have surely traveled in India," he murmured, when his relation
flagged.

"So I have, by proxy, and, in imagination," laughed Madame Berthe
Louison, as she demurely held up her jeweled watch. "Ten minutes
more, and then, Sir, I shall give you your ordre de route. For,
I must go quietly. I trust to your experience and good judgment.
There is nothing to say here. There will be no letters. My bankers
have their orders. You must simply pay our bill, and depart quietly
via Geneva. May I ask if you wish any more money? Some personal
needs?"

Major Hawke shook his head. "You may rely on me to meet you, and to
faithfully obey you," he gravely said. There were unspoken words
trembling on his lips, which he fain would have uttered. "By
Heavens! She is a witch!" he murmured, in a repressed excitement,
as he walked quietly down the hallway to keep his tryst with Casimir
Wieniawski. For Berthe Louison had at once divined the cause of
his unrest.

"You think that I should tell you more? Why should I tell you
anything? We are strangers yet, not even friends. You may divine
that I trust no man. I have had my own sad lessons of life-lessons
learned in bitterness and tears. I go out to your burning jungle
land, with neither hope to allure, nor fear to repel. The whole
world is the same to me. That I have a purpose, I admit; and even
you may know me better by and bye! Till then, no professions, no
promises, no pledges. I use you for my own selfish purposes, that
is all; and you can frankly study your own self-interest. We are
two clay jars swept along down the Ganges of life. For a few threads
of the dark river's current, we travel on, side by side! You have
frankly taken me at my word! I have taken you at yours! There
is a written order to settle my affairs and remove my luggage. Of
course, should you meet with any accident, telegraph to the Vittorio
Emmanuele, at Brindisi. Money," she said, almost bitterly, "would
be telegraphed; and so, I say"--he listened breathlessly--"au
revoir--at Brindisi!" she concluded, giving him her hand, with a
frank smile.

As Alan Hawke descended the stair, he growled. "A woman without a
heart, and--not without a head!" As he calmly answered the manager's
polite inquiry for Madame's health, the "heartless woman" whom he
had left was lying sobbing in the dark room above--crying, in her
anguish, "Valerie! My poor, dead Valerie! I go to your child!"

But, none suspected her departure, when the trimly-clad woman
glided out of the entrance of the Hotel Faucon, at eleven o'clock.
The maid was in waiting on the circular place in front with
a carriage, and the key of the apartment lay in a sealed envelope
on Alan Hawke's table, which proves that a few francs are just as
potent in Switzerland as the same number of shillings in London,
or dollars in New York. It was a clear case of "stole away."

When Major Alan Hawke leaned over the supper table at the Casino,
pledging Madame Frangipanni's bright eyes in very fair cafe champagne,
he nervously started as he heard the wailing whistle and clanging
bells of the through train for Constance. He forgot the faded
complexion, the worn face, the chemically tinted hair and haggard
eyes of the broken-down Austrian blonde concert singer, in the
exhilaration of Berthe Louison's departure.

For he had not lost Professor Casimir Wieniawski from sight a moment
since the hour of ten, and that "distinguished noble refugee" was
now in a maudlin way, murmuring perfunctory endearments in the ear
of the ex-prima donna, who tenderly gazed upon him in a proprietary
manner. Alan Hawke had judged it well to ply the champagne, and,
at the witching hour of midnight, he critically inspected Casimir's
condition. "He is probably about tipsy enough now to tell all he
knows, and, with an acquired truthfulness. I will, therefore, bring
this festive occasion to a close." Whereat the watchful Lucullus
of the feast artfully drew Madame Frangipanni aside.

"I have to go on to London, Chere Comtesse," he flatteringly said,
"you must give me Casimir for a couple of hours to-night, to talk
over the old times."

He lingered a moment, hat in hand, as he chivalrously sent Madame
Frangipanni home in a carriage. The poor old singer's bosom was
thrilled with a sunset glow of departing greatness, as she lingered
tearfully that night over the memories of the halcyon days when the
officers of Francis Joseph's bodyguard had fought for the honors
of the carriage courtesies of the Diva. Eheu fugaces!

Closeted together, the minor guests having been artfully dispersed,
Major Alan Hawke and his friend recalled the olden glories of
Wieniawski's Indian tour. It was with a jealous hand that Hawke
doled out the cognac, until Casimir abruptly said: "And now, mon
ami, tell me what has linked you to Alixe Delavigne?" Alan Hawke
had keenly studied his man, and found that the limit of the artist's
drinking capacity seemed to be infinity, and so he leaned back and
coldly scrutinized the musician's shabby exterior. "I think that
I can risk it now," he mused, and then, in a crisp, hard voice,
he suddenly said: "I don't mind parting with a twenty-pound note,
Casimir, if you will tell me all you know about that beauty. You
need it now--more than I. I am to be the judge of the value of your
story, however. Mark me, I know the main features, but I also know
that you have met her in the old days." The broken-down artist
flushed under the changed relation of guest and paid tool.

He uneasily stammered, as he filled a brandy glass, "As a loan--as
a loan!" But Hawke was sternly business-like in his reply.

"Don't make any pretenses with me. You are hard down on your luck,
and you know it. This is a mere matter of business." He unfolded a
bundle of notes and carelessly tossed two ten-pound notes over to
Casimir, who seized them with trembling fingers. The pitiful sum
represented to the artist two months of his meager salary. Here
was absinthe unlimited, a little roulette, a new frock for Madame
Frangipanni, perhaps even a dress coat for himself.

"How old do you think Alixe is?" unsteadily began the artist.

"I should say about twenty-five," gallantly replied the Major.

"We will premise that she is thirty-three," confidently began the
musician, "or even thirty-five. When I was a young fool at Warsaw,
eighteen years old," he babbled. "I was the local prodigy. My
first essays in public were, of course, concerts, and I was soon
the vogue. And, later, asked as an artistic guest to the chateaux
of the nobility in Poland, Kowno, Vitebsk, Wilna, Minsk, Grodno
and Volhynia. I was a poet in thought, a lover of all womankind in
my dreams, and a conspirator in the inmost chambers of my defiant
Polish nature."

"They made me the cat's-paw of adroit adventurers who were filling
their pockets from wealthy Polish sympathizers in France and America,
and some of them were Russian paid spies. I braved all the risks.
I was the secret means of communication of the highest circles of
our cult of Rebellion. Fool that I was, wandering from province to
province, I lived the life of a mad enthusiast. The proud memories
of Poland were mine, the spirit of her music, arts, and poetry had
cast its witchery over me. Her history, the tragedy of a crownless
queen of sorrows, had transported me into a dreamy idealism. I was
soon the confidant of our seductive mobile Polish beauties. Sinuous,
insincere, changeful, passionate, and burning with the flames
of Love and Life, I was, at once, their idol and their plaything,
their hero, and their willing slave.

"For then, the spirit of old Poland rang out in my numbers, and
I waked the quivering echoes of woman's heart at will. It was in
seventy-three that I was sent on a special mission to Prince Pierre
Troubetskoi's splendid chateau at Jitomir in Volhynia. The crafty
Russians were watching us even there, and were busied in assembling
troops secretly, at Kiev and Wilna. To another was given the proud
place of secret spy over the higher circles of Wilna, while my
duty was to watch Jitomir and Kiev. Troubetskoi was a bold gallant
fellow, an ardent Muscovite, and had secretly returned from a
long sojourn in Paris. He was in close touch with the Governors of
Volhynia, Kiev, and Podolia, and we feared his sword within, his
Parisian connections without. An evil star brought me into his
household as his guest. For nearly a year I was kept vibrating
between the points of danger to us, my personal headquarters being
at the Chateau of Jitomir. And there I lived out my brief heart-life,
for there I met Valerie Troubetskoi. No one seemed to know where
Pierre had found her, but later I learned her story from her own
lips.

"That is, all of the story of a woman's heart-life which is ever
unveiled to any man! She was beautiful beyond--compare, her wistful
tenderness shining out as the moon, softer than the fierce noonday
glare of the passion-transfigured faces of our Polish beauties. For
they loved, for Love's own sake, and Valerie Troubetskoi offered
up the chalice of her own heart in silent sadness. I never saw so
lovely a being."

"Did she look like that?" suddenly demanded Hawke, thrusting a
photograph before the haggard eyes of the broken artist. He gasped,
and tears gathered in his lashes. "Valerie, herself, and, as I knew
her only before her fatal illness had marked her down. Did Alixe
give you this?" He clutched at it with his trembling hands.

"Go on," harshly said Alan Hawke, "the hour is late!"

The Pole buried his face in his thinned hands, and then brokenly
resumed: "The old story--the only one you know. She was about my
own age; Troubetskoi was nearly always away; perhaps he thought
to trap all my traitorous circle through me, or else he was in the
secret service of the hungry Russian eagle. Valerie roamed silently
through the great halls of Jitomir, saddened and lonely, for their
union was childless. My heart spoke to her own in my music; she
knew the prayer of my soul, though my lips were silent. For I madly
adored her. Then, then, I was a man! My life belonged to Poland,
my soul to art, but my heart was a sealed temple of love, a temple
where Valerie, the beloved, the secretly worshiped, sat alone on
her throne.

"One day a woman, radiant in youth, and reflecting Valerie's own
beauty, was brought to the chateau by Troubetskoi, who had journeyed
on to Vienna. It was Alixe Delavigne, the woman whom I saw last with
you. A month later Valerie called me to her side: 'My poor Casimir,'
she said, as I knelt at her feet, 'I am dying! The struggle will
not be a long one. I know the secret of your boyish heart. Your
eyes have spoken and your music has reached my heart. Your love is
written in your songs without words. When you have forgotten me,
there is Alixe; she is alone upon earth. Let me seal your heart to
hers, and even in death I shall feel that I love you both.' Then,"
the artist sobbed, "I lost my head. I told her all in mad, burning
words. She raised her eyes to mine, and softly said: 'I shall see
you no more unless Alixe is with us, for I love Pierre and he loves
me. When I am gone, Alixe will be the only one who knows the secret
of my life.'

"It was two months later--for I would not leave her side, even Pierre
Troubetskoi could not see her passing away, for it was a mysterious
malady--when a sudden alarm brought me to my senses. My secret
society work was done, and yet I lingered there, at the very steps
of the scaffold. Alixe Delavigne burst into my room at midnight.

"'Hasten!' she cried. 'Even now the Cossacks are surrounding the
house!' She let me out through the secret passage of the old Chateau.
A cloak was thrown over me by the Intendant. He was a Pole--and one
true to the old blood. Alixe pressed a purse upon me.  An address
in Paris was whispered. 'I will write! Go! For Valerie's sake, go!'

"Forty-eight hours later I crossed the Galician frontier at Lemberg
disguised as a Polish peasant. My guardian, the Intendant, turned
me over to our friends in the valley of the Styr. After six months of
wandering, I finally reached Paris in safety. There were sorrowful
letters awaiting me. Valerie was hidden forever in the yawning
tombs of the gloomy old chapel of Jitomir, and Alixe herself wrote
of Pierre Troubetlskoi's generous blinding of the pursuit. I was,
however, prosecuted and hunted. I fled to America, for all our
plans of revolt were miserably wrecked--and by Polish traitors!

"Two years later, I learned from a fellow refugee that Pierre
Troubetskoi had been killed by accident in a great forest battle.
And to Alixe Delavigne, all the wealth which would have been
Valerie's was left by the lion-hearted man who awoke too late to
the early doom of his beloved.

"I knew naught of the family history save that the sisters were
the daughters of Colonel Delavigne, a gallant French officer, who
was murdered by the Communists in seventy-one." Alan Hawke was now
sternly eyeing the musician, who abruptly concluded: "I have never
met Alixe Delavigne since. I dare not return to Poland. My own
course has been steadily downward, and, beyond knowing that she
still possesses the splendid domains of Jitomir, we are strangers
to each other. Polish refugees have told me that she has always
administered the vast estate with liberal kindness to all. And now
you will tell me of her?" The tremulous hand of Wieniawski raised
a brimming glass of brandy to his lips. He stared about vacantly
when Hawke said:

"Madame Delavigne left Lausanne this evening on a special mission.
Her life is a sealed book to all, and a mere business interest has
drawn us together." The Englishman went callously on: "There are
a couple of mountainously rich American girls coming down here
to-morrow at nine o'clock to spend the day at Chillon with me. I
need a running mate. Will you then meet me at the Montreux Landing?
You can have a day off, and these young fools are fat pigeons,
ardent, and enthusiastic." Hawke saw the hesitation on the man's
face.

"You can say to Madame Frangipanni that you are with me and that
I will explain later at the dinner." With a glance at his watch,
Alan Hawke rang for the Oberkellner. He was extending his hand in
goodnight, when the refugee cried imploringly, "I must see her once
more! Tell me of her journey!" and Major Hawke deliberately lied
to the poor vaurien artist, the wreck of his better self. "The
through train to Paris is her only address. I presume that Madame
Delavigne will spend some time in a sanitarium after this heart
attack, and she has my banker's address. It is only through them
that we meet to arrange some affairs of business. Whether maid, wife,
or widow, I know not, for you know what women are--sealed books to
their enemies, and to their husbands and lovers--only enigmas!

"But fail not to meet me. I'll give you a pleasant day. You will
find the two Americans both gushing and susceptible." Then as
Major Alan Hawke stepped lightly away to the sedately closed Hotel
Faucon, Casimir Wieniawski staggered back into the cafe.

His fit of passionate sorrow was brief, for in a half hour he was
the king of a mad revel, where his meaner sycophants divided Alan
Hawke's bounty. The cool Major strode along happy hearted to his
rest, quietly revolving the plan of campaign.

"There was then a sealed chapter in Valerie Troubetskoi's life.
And the key of that is in Berthe Louison's keeping. Now, my fair
employer, it is diamond cut diamond. I think that I have done a
fair day's work." And he thanked his lucky stars for the precipitate
flight of his mysterious employer. "She evidently feared the noble
Casimir following upon the trail. Strange--strange pathways! Strange
footprints on the sands of Time! It is a devilish funny world,
but, after all, the best that we have any authentic account of."
And so he slept the sleep of the just, for he was making the woes
of others the cornerstones of his newer fortunes.

Major Hawke arose with the lark, by a previous arrangement with the
Hotel Bureau. His face was eminently businesslike in its gravity,
as he summoned the porter and dispatched all his luggage to the
care of the Chef du Gare, Geneva. "Business of extreme importance
awaiting upon Madame's complete recovery had caused her to depart
to consult an eminent specialist. Thank you, there will be no
letters," said the Major, as he pocketed both receipted bills. He
amused himself while watching for the morning boat, as the mountain
mists, lifting, revealed the glittering lake, in sending a very
carefully sketched letter to Mademoiselle Euphrosyne Delande, No.
123 Rue du Rhone, Geneva. This letter was of such moment that it
went on to London, to be posted back duly stamped with good Queen
Victoria's likeness. A very careful Major!

The lofty semi-official tone, in which the writer spoke of a possible
return to India "under the auspices of the Foreign Office," was
well calculated to fill the spinster's bosom with the flattering
unction that a mighty protector had been raised up for the adventurous
Justine, now supposed to be environed with all the glittering snares
of society, as well as enveloped in the mystic jungle.

A week later, when Euphrosyne Delande laid down the pen and abandoned
her unfinished "Lecture Upon the Influence of the Allobroges, Romans,
Provencal Franks, Burgundians, and Germans Upon the Intellectual
Development of Geneva," she read Alan Hawke's letter with a thrill
of secret pride.

The smooth adventurer had written: "If I have the future pleasure
of meeting Mademoiselle Justine Delande I only hope to find a
resemblance to her charming and distinguished sister. As my movements
are necessarily secret, pray write only in the utmost confidence
to Mademoiselle Justine. I hope to soon return and enjoy once more
the hospitalities of your intellectual circle." The address given
for India was "Bombay Club." Miss Euphrosyne gazed up at the stony
lineaments of Professor Delande, her marble-browed and flinty-hearted
sire, locked in the cold chill of a steel engraving.  He was
as neutral as the busts of Buffon, Cuvier, Laplace, Humboldt, and
Pestalozzi, which coldly furnished forth her sanctum. She thought
of the eloquent eyed young Major and sadly sighed. She proceeded
to enshrine him in her withered heart, and then wrote a crossed
letter of many tender underlinings to her distant sister.  And thus
the pathway was made very smooth for the artful wanderer, who had
already stepped upon the decks of the Sepoy.

Major Hawke had dispatched an excellent breakfast before he stepped
into the carriage to be whirled away to Montreux. His bridges
were burned behind him. There was not a vestige of Madame Berthe
Louison left to give the needy Pole a clue. "They are separated,
and Anstruther and the Swiss schoolmistress are harmless. I have
only my play to make upon the lovely Justine, and to retake up
my old friendship with Hugh Fraser. Then I am ready to bit by bit
unravel the story of Valerie Delavigne's child--the Veiled Rose of
Delhi."

"Between a father with a secret to keep, and this strange woman
with a purpose, there is a pretty girl and a vast fortune at issue,
besides the prospective pickings of Madame Berthe Louison." These
musings of the Major led him up to the question of his employer's
false name, as he swept down to the nearby Montreux station. "She
evidently had traced the child to Switzerland, and was upon a still
hunt to find out the home of the growing heiress, and,--for what
purpose? Ah! One day after another," he pleasantly exclaimed, as
he saw the artist awaiting him. "Peu apeu I'oiseau fait son nid."
He had already evolved a scheme to permanently separate Casimir
Wieniawski from his own beautiful employer, who was now dashing
along well on her way toward Munich. Alan Hawke was startled at the
distinguished appearance of the musician. An aristocratic pallor
refined his face, he was neatly booted and gloved, the elegant
lines of the Pole's supple figure were displayed in a morning frock
coat, and his chapeau de soie was virginal in its gloss.

"Some of my own twenty pounds," mused Alan Hawke, as he gayly sprang
out and saluted his dupe. "Ah! There you are. You look to-day the
old Casimir. Let us have a few last words before the boat arrives."

Hardened as he was, Alan Hawke was surprised at the childlike
lightness of the Pole's manner when they encountered the fresh
young beauties who were already the cynosure of all eyes upon the
morning boat. The storm of emotion had spent itself, and while
Alan Hawke squired, the aggressive Miss Genie, Casimir Wieniawski
was bending over the slightly dreamy and more romantic Miss Phenie!
They distributed themselves in open order, as they strolled along
toward the drawbridge of that most hospitable of old horrors,
Chillon Castle.

It was a day of days, and the artful Hawke laughed as he smoked his
cigar upon a rustic bench in the castle Garden. Miss Genie was at
his side, pouting, petulant, provokingly pretty and duly agnostic
as to the Polish prince.

A week later, Alan Hawke stood on the deck of the Sepoy, as that
reliable vessel steamed out of Brindisi harbor for Bombay. He was
watching a lace handkerchief, waved by a graceful woman, standing
alone upon the pier. The adventurer drew a silver rupee from his
pocket, and then gayly tossed it into the waves, crying, "Here's
for luck!" as he watched the slender, distant, womanly figure move
up the pier. There lay the Empress of India with steam now curling
from her stacks, ready to follow on to Calcutta. "I have not broken
her lines yet," murmured Major Hawke as he paced the deck, "but
I have her pretty well surrounded, cunning as she is!" and so he
complacently ordered his first bottle of pale ale.


CHAPTER IV.

THE VEILED ROSEBUD OF DELHI.


The October winds were whirling the pine needles down the mountain
defiles in the bracing Alpine autumn, as Alan Hawke sped on past
Suez, gliding on through the stifling furnace heat of the Red Sea,
past Mocha, and dashing along through the Bridge of Tears, to Aden.
He left at Suez, and also at the Eastern Gibraltar of haughty Albion,
the brief letters for his mysterious employer, and he mentally
arranged the social gambit of his reappearance at Delhi in the nine
days before the Sepoy steamed into the island-dotted bay of Bombay.

Sternly shunning, on his arrival, the local sirens, whose songs of
old fell so sweetly upon his ear, the determined Major sped away at
once for Allahabad. He was on shaking social quagmires at Bombay.
There were sundry little threads of the past still left hanging
out in the shape of stray urban indebtedness, and he now scorned to
throw away a single one of the crisp Bank of England notes showered
upon him by Fortune. He was growing sadly wise. He had lately mused
over the old motto, "Lucky at cards--unlucky in love!" The cool
provision of the funds at Lausanne by Berthe Louison, her separate
route to Delhi, her business-like coldness in their strangely frank
relations, all these things proved to him that he was to be only
an intelligent tool; not a trusted friend in the little drama about
to open at the old capital of Oude.

Alan Hawke had already abandoned the idea of any sentimental
advances upon Alixe Delavigne. "Strange, strange," he murmured; "a
woman can sometimes easily be flattered into a second conjugation
of the verb 'To Love,' but an internal previous evidence of man's
unreliability can do that which no personal sorrow can effect.
The key to this woman's behavior is in the story of her sister's
shadowed life.

"The hiatus from Hugh Fraser to Pierre Troubetskoi covers the tragedy
of Valerie Delavigae's life, the death blow was then struck, and
the central figure is the child. So, with the strangely acquired
fortune at her beck and call, Alixe Delavigne has consecrated
herself to that most illogical of human careers--a woman's silent
vengeance! That achieved, will the furnace fires of her stormy
heart be lit by the hand of passion?"

He ruminated sagely over these matters as he sped on over the Great
Indian Peninsula Railway. The western Ghauts were now far behind
him and their dark basalt crags. Bombay, Hyderabad, Berar, the
Central Provinces, Central India, and the southern prong of Oude
was reached. He was, however, no whit the wiser when he reached
the Ganges and hastily sought the telegraph station at Allahabad.
But he felt like a prince in the direct line of succession with his
net eight hundred pounds still to the good. His first care was to
telegraph to Madame Berthe Louison, to the care of Grindley, at
Calcutta: "Waiting at Allahabad for your letters, and news of your
safe arrival." While rushing past the Vindhia Mountains he had
encountered several of his old Indian acquaintances. The mere hint
of a secret governmental employ of gravity satisfied the languid
curiosity of the qui hais. For a week he lingered in the "City of
God," and daily haunted the post and telegraph offices.

He had sent on to the Delhi Club a note for the maw of the local
gossips, and also had dispatched a skillfully constructed letter
to the unsuspecting Hugh Johnstone. With a veiled flattery of the
old civilian's wisdom and experience, he referred to his desire to
consult him as to a secret journey in the direction of the Pamirs.
The opportune windfall of Anstruther's ecarte and Berthe Louison's
liberal advance enabled Major Alan Hawke to maintain a dignified and
easy port as he wandered through Allahabad. Strolling by the waters
of the Ganges and Jumna, he invoked anew the blessings of the
goddess Fortuna, as he gazed out upon the majestic heaven descended
stream. The daily tide of travel toward Delhi brought on each day
some familiar faces, and yet Alan Hawke lingered gently, declining
their traveling company. "Waiting orders," he said, with the sad,
sweet smile of one enjoying a sinecure. His swelling outward port
thoroughly proved that the days were gone when he was to be scanned
before the morning salutation. Les eaux sout basses, the impecunious
Frenchman mourns, but there was a swelling tide bearing Alan Hawke
onward now.

A hearty welcoming letter from the ci-devant Hugh Fraser was
a good omen, for rumor of a thousand tongues had already invested
the returning Major with an important secret mission. His epistolary
seed planted in Delhi had brought forth fruit as rapidly as the
magic of the Indian conjuror's mango-tree trick. It was already
rumored even in Allahabad that "Hawke had dropped upon a decidedly
good thing." The Major was busied, however, in analyzing the motives
of Alixe Delavigne, in her change of name, her separate journey,
her choice of the Calcutta route, and the inner nature of her
projected enterprise.

"A woman in her position, easy as to fortune, will stoop to none
of the arts of the blackmailer; she could choose a life of soft
luxury, for she is yet in the bloom of vigorous early womanhood.
To her the personality of Hugh Fraser is surely nothing. There
are but two objects of attack--his proposed social elevation, the
nattering title, and the peace of mind and future of the daughter,
this lovely veiled Rose! Love, a natural love, even for the stranger
child, would ward away the blow; but only an unslaked vengeance
would point the shaft! The reproduction of her sister's face seemed
to touch her to her very bosom's core. There is some fixed purpose
in this cold-hearted woman's coming! Not a lingering annoyance, but
some coup de main, a bolt to be launched at Hugh Johnstone alone!"

"I do not know how I can break her lines, unless she shows me
some weak point," he mused. "But either her fortune or Johnstone's
shall yield me a heavy passing toll. And, there is always the girl!
There, I would have to meet Berthe Louison as a determined enemy!"
In recognizing the fact that his employer must make the game at
last, that she must lead out and so uncover herself, he saw his
own masterly position between the two prospective foes.

"I can play them off the one against each other, at the right time,
and, if they fight each other, with the help of Justine Delande,
I may even make a strong running for the girl. I think I now see
a way!" He felt that his wandering days were over. The dark days
of carking cares, of harassing duns, of frequent changes of base,
driven onward by the rolling ball of gossip and innuendo.

He felt strangely lifted up in the familiar scenes of his years
of wanderings. For he was at home again. Alixe Delavigne, however
carefully watched for her eastern adventure, was socially helpless
in a land of strange alien races, of discordant Babel tongues, of
shifting scenes, a land as unreal as the visions of a summer night.

But to Alan Hawke all this Indian life was now a second nature. The
scenes of Bombay recalled his once ambitious youth, the days when
he first delightedly gazed upon the wonders of Elephanta, and
the gloomy grottoes of Salcette. From his very landing he had set
himself one cardinal rule of conduct, to absolutely ignore all the
lighter attractions of native and Eurasian beauty, and to let no
single word fall from his lips respecting the sudden occultation
of Miss Nadine Johnstone--this new planet softly swimming in the
evening skies of Delhi. He felt that he was beginning a new career,
one in which neither greed nor passion must betray him. It was the
"third call" of Fortune, and he had wisely decided upon a golden
silence. "If I had only met the favored Justine, instead of that
withered Aspasia, Euphrosyne, then, the girl's heart might have
been easily made mine," was the unavailing regret of the handsome
Major. "If I could have come out with them," he sighed. He well knew
the softening effect upon romantic womanhood of a long sea voyage
where the willing winds sway the softer emotions of the breast, and
the trembling woman is defenseless against the perfidious darts of
Cupid.

"My time will come," he murmured as the train rushed along through
the incense breathing plantations. A richer nature than foggy
England was spread out before him in treacherous Hindostan with its
warring tribes, its dying creeds, its dead languages, its history
sweeping far back into the mists of the unknown. For every problem
of the human mind, every throe of the restless heart of man is worn
old and threadbare in Hindostan, with its very dust compounded of
the wind-blown ashes of dead millions upon millions. Gross vulgar
Gold reigns now as King on the broad savannas where spice plantations
and indigo farms vary the cotton, rice, and sugar fields. Wasted
treasures of dead dynasties gleam out in the ornamentation of the
temples abandoned to the prowling beast of prey. And riches and ruin
meet the eye in a strange medley. Dead greatness and the prosaic
present.

Modern bungalows, where the faltering conqueror watches the
tax-ridden ryots dot the landscape, and an overweighted official
system brings its haughty military, its self-sufficient civilians,
its proud womanhood, to drain the exhausted heart of India. And
the ryot groans under many taskmasters.

Lingering with a restless heart, in Allahabad, Alan Hawke roused
himself as at a bugle call, when he received a telegram announcing
the safe arrival of the Empress of India at Calcutta.

"La danse va commencer," he muttered, as he read the brief words
of his employer: "Go on to Delhi, await me there. Telegrams to you
there at private address. Leave letters." The signature "Lausanne"
was a new spur to his well-considered prudence. And, so, the next
day, Major Hawke sedately descended at Delhi.

There was nothing to distinguish Hawke from any other well-to-do
European, as he stood gazing around the station, in his cool
linens, his pith helmet and floating puggaree. The prudent air of
judicious mystery lately adopted sat easily upon him as his eye roved
over the familiar scenes of old with a silent gleam of recognition,
he followed a confidential attendant who salaamed, murmuring "My
master awaits the sahib whom he delights to love and honor."

"There is one card I must play at once," murmured Hawke, as the
carriage sped along. "Mademoiselle Justine Delande must be my secret
friend! I wonder if Euphrosyne really swallowed the bait! If she
has fallen into the trap and written to her sister, then--all is
well!"

His eyes roved over the familiar scene of the broad Chandnee Chouk,
sweeping magnificently away from the Lahore gate to the superb
palace. The sun beat down with its old ferocious glare on shop and
bazaar. Grave merchants lolled over their priceless treasures of
gold and silver work, heaped up jewels and bullion-threaded shawls
for princely wear. Under the awnings lingered the familiar polyglot
groups, while beggary and opulence jostled each other on every
hand.

"It's the same old road in life!" murmured Alan Hawke, "whether
called Inderput, Shahjehanabad, or Delhi--the same old game goes
on here forever, here by the sacred Jumna!"

He was dreaming of the artful part which he had to play in the fierce
modern race for wealth. "They used to fight for it like men in the
old days," he bitterly murmured. "Now, the only gold that I see
before me is to be had by gentlemanly blackmail! Right here--between
old Hugh Johnstone and this flinty-hearted woman avenger--lies
my fortune. And I swear that nothing shall stop me! I will be the
prompter of the little play now ready for a first rehearsal!" His
eyes lighted up viciously as he was swept along past the great
marble house, gleaming out in the shady compound, where the Rosebud
of Delhi was hidden.

"Cursed old curmudgeon! To lock the girl up!" muttered the handsome
young rascal. "Old Ram Lal must do a bit of spying for me!" Hawke
could see on the raised plateau of marble steps all the evidences
of the sumptuous luxury of the haughty Briton, "who toils not,
neither does he spin." But, the dozen pointed arches on each face
of the vast palace house of the budding baronet showed no sign
of life. The clustered marble columns stretched out in a splendid
lonely perspective, and the square inner castellated keep rose up
in the glaring sun, but with closed and shaded windows. Dusky shapes
flitted about, busied in the infinitesimal occupations of Indian
servitors, but no graceful woman form could be seen in the witching
gardens where a Rajah might have fitly held a durbar.

"I'll warrant the old hunks has Bramah locks and Chubb's burglar
proofs to fence this beauty off!" growled the Major, as he sank back
in the carriage. "I fancy, though, that a liberal dose of Madame
Louison's gold, judiciously administered by me, in her interest,
to Justine Delande, may open the way to the girl's presence! The
mother's story may serve to win the girl's heart. If I can only busy
old Hugh and the Madame in watching each other, then I can handle
Justine."

"Yes," the satisfied schemer concluded, "the old man's game is the
bauble title. Berthe Louison's must be some studied revenge. She is
above all blackmail. I know already half the story of this clouded
past. Madame Alixe Delavigne must yield up the other half, bit by
bit. By the time she arrives, my spies will have posted me. I will
have opened rny parallels on the Swiss dragon who guards the lovely
Nadine. Now to make my first play upon the old nabob."

Major Alan Hawke had studied skillfully out his gambit for an attack
upon Hugh Johnstone's vanity. When he descended at the hospitable
doors of his secret ally, Ram Lal Singh, he plunged into the seclusion
of a luxurious easy toilet making. A dozen letters glanced over,
a comforting hookah, and Alan Hawke had easily "sized up" the
situation. For Ram Lal's first skeleton report had clearly proved
to him that the coast was clear. "Thank Heavens there are as yet
no rivals," Hawke murmured. "Neither confidential friend of the old
boy, no dashing Ruy Gomez as yet in the way." Hawke viewed himself
complacently in the mirror. He was severely just to himself, and
he well knew all his own good points. "Pshaw!" he murmured, "any
man not one-eyed can easily play the Prince Charming to a hooded
lady all forlorn, a mere child, a tyro in life's soft battles of
the heart. I must impress this pompous old fool that I know all
the intrigues of his proposed elevation. He will unbosom, and both
trust and fear me. These pampered civilians are as haughty in their
way as the military and be damned to them," mused Hawke, cheerfully
humming his battle song, those words of a vitriolic wit:

"General Sir Arthur Victorious Jones, Great is vermillion splashed
with gold."

"This old crab has quietly stolen himself rich, and now forsooth
would tack on a Sir Hugh before his name. Ah! The jewels! I
must delicately hint to him that I am in the inner circle of the
cognoscenti."

And then Alan Hawke cheerfully joined his obese and crafty friend
and host, Ram Lal Singh. For an hour the soft, oily voice of the
old jewel merchant flowed on in a purring monologue. The ease and
mastery of the Conqueror's language showed that the usurer had well
studied the masters of Delhi. Sixty years had given Ram Lal added
cunning. A crafty conspirator of the old days when the mystic
"chupatties" were sent out on their dark errand, the sly jewel
merchant had survived the bloody wreck of the throne of Oude, and
from the place of attendant to one of the slaughtered princes,
dropped down softly into the trade of money lender, secret agent,
and broker of the unlawful in many varied ways.

It was Ram Lal's easy task to purvey luxuries to the imperious
Briton, to hold the extravagant underlings in his usurious clutches,
to be at peace with Hindu, Moslem, Sikh, Pathan, Ghoorka, Persian,
and Armenian, and to blur his easy-going Mohammedanism in a generous
participation in all sins of omission and commission. A many-sided
man!

Alan Hawke heaved a sigh of easy contentment when he had brought
the chronique scandahuse of Delhi down to the day and hour.

"You say that she is beautiful, this girl?"

"As the stars on the sea!" nodded Ram Lal.

"And the Swiss woman?"

"Never leaves her for a minute. They see no one, for all men say the
old Commissioner will take her home, to Court when he is gazetted!"

"None of the great people go there?" keenly queried Hawke.

"Not even the fine ladies," laughed Ram Lal. "The old fellow may
have his own memories of the past. He trusts no one. The girl is
only a bulbul in a golden cage and with no one to sing to." Hawke
cut short Ram Lal's flowery figures.

"Does the Swiss woman trade with you?" he demanded.

"Yes, she buys a few simple things--my peddlers take the Veiled
Rose many rich things. The old Sahib is very generous to the child.
And the dragon loves trinkets, too!" Then Alan Hawke's eyes gleamed.

"She knows your shop here?"

"Perfectly," replied Ram Lal, "and comes alone--on the master's
business. You know I had many dealings with Sahib Hugh Fraser in
the old days," mused the jeweler. "He always admits my men. I have
valued gems for him for twenty years."

"Good!" cried the happy Major. "I want to send a man now to her
with a note. I am going to put up at the United Service Club, but
I must see this woman first. I don't like to send a letter, though.
If I had any one to trust--"

The merchant promptly said: "I will go myself! They are always in
the garden in the afternoon. I can easily see her alone."

"First rate! Then I will give you a message," answered Hawke. "I
must see her to-morrow early, for old Hugh will surely ask me to
tiffin. And, Ram, you must at once set your best man on to watch
all that goes on there. I have a good fat plum for you now--to set
up a neat little house here for a friend of mine who is coming, and
you shall do the whole thing!" The merchant's dark eyes glistened.
"A new officer of rank?" he queried.

"It's a lady--a friend of mine--rich, too, and she wants to live
on the quiet! She will stay here for some time!" The oily listener
had learned a vast prudence in the days when he trod the halls of
the last King of Delhi, so he held his peace and wondered at the
suddenly enhanced fortunes of that star of graceful wanderers,
Allan Hawke!

"I'll go over to the club now and get a room! Send all my things
over!" said the Major. "I wish to let Hugh know that I am here.
I will give you the directions about the house to-morrow. Make no
mistake with this message now!" Whereat Alan Hawke repeated a few
words which would awake the slumbering curiosity in the woman-heart
of the lonely Justine Delande!

"Now, I will return and await your success," concluded Hawke as
he read over a dozen times Madame Berthe Louison's long dispatch,
ordering him to prepare her pied de terre in Delhi. "Gad! Milady
means to do the thing in style," he murmured. "She is a deep one,
and she must have a pot of money!" He lit a cheroot and sauntered
away to show up officially at the club. Major Hawke soon became aware
that nothing succeeds like success. Not only did all the flaneurs
of the Chandnee Chouk seize upon him, but, from passing carriages,
bright, roguish eyes merrily challenged him as the hot-hearted
English Mem-Sahibs whirled by.

Rumor had magnified the importance of Major Alan Hawke's secret
service appointment, and the wanderer was astounded when the highest
official of the Delhi College gravely saluted him.

"By Gad! I believe that I am really becoming respectable!" laughed
the delighted major. His uncertain past seemed to be fast fading
away in the glow of the skillfully hinted official promotion. "I
wonder now if old Ram Lal has a hold on my canny friend, Hugh Fraser
Johnstone--Sir Hugh to be! Perhaps they are like all the rest of
us--rascals of the same grade, but only in different ways. The old
jewel matters! I must look to this and watch Ram Lal!" The returned
Anglo-Indian carelessly nodded to the group of men gathered in the
club's lounging-room as he entered. Designedly, he loudly demanded
to know if his traps had arrived. "Left all my odds and ends in
store," he murmured to a friend, as he called for a brandy pawnee.
"Beastly bore! Must wait orders here for some time!"

Skilled at tossing the ball of conversation to and fro, Major Alan
Hawke, while at luncheon, artfully planted seeds here and there,
to be neatly dished up later for that incipient baronet, Hugh
Johnstone. And yet a graceful shade of dignified reserve lent
color to his rumored advancement, and the schemer leaned over the
writing table with quite a foreign-office air as he indited his
diplomatic note of arrival to his destined prey.

With a grave air he selected his rooms and accommodations to suit
his swelling port, and even the club stewards nodded in recognition
of the tidal wave of Alan Hawke's mended fortunes.

With due official gravity the man "who had dropped into a good
thing," disappeared, to allow the gilded youth of Delhi to carry
the gossip to mess and bungalow. It was a welcome morsel to these
merry crows!

It was late when the handsome Major returned to find a small pyramid
of notes on his table and many letters in his box. He was in the
highest good humor, for the wary Ram Lal had most diplomatically
acquitted his task of opening a secret communication.

"Just as I thought," laughed the Major, as he sipped his pale
ale in Ram Lal's spacious room of pleasaunce. "They all protest,
woman-like, but they all come!"

The watchful Swiss exile's heart fluttered tenderly in the far-off
Lotos land at the arrival of a secret friend of her sage sister.
She longed for the morning to meet her new friend. Alan Hawke's
irresistible attractions had pointed the praises which flowed
smoothly over the double crossed letter which had preceded him!
The oily Ram Lal, a veteran observer of many an intrigue, scented
a budding rose of romance in the Major's adroit coup, and the
arrival of the only lady whom Alan Hawke had ever socially fathered
in Delhi.

"In three days I will be all ready! So you can telegraph to-night,"
reported the merchant, when the Major carefully went over all the
details of the proposed temporary establishment of the disguised
Alixe Delaviarne.

"Very good!" approvingly answered the dignified confidant and patron.
"See here, Ram Lal! You have only to serve me well in these little
private matters, and you shall handle all the coming Mem-Sahib's
money business here! She wants to be quiet. I am to direct all her
private matters! Not a word, however, to old Hugh!" The two men
separated, Hawke with the knowledge that one of Ram's men had already
glided into the swarming household entourage of Hugh Johnstone's
stately home, and the spy was on every movement of the strange
interior, which defied the Delhi beaux.

"Not a bad day's work," mused Hawke, as he dined in solitary state.
The hospitable bidding of the wealthiest civilian of Delhi to tiffin
on the morrow brought him in touch with Alixe Delavigne's proposed
victim once more. The delighted rascal mused: "I will surely have
letters from her to-morrow, possibly even a telegram of her arrival.
When the silly Swiss woman is the partner of an innocent secret,
she is mine to control! Then the chase for a few lacs of rupees
begins!"

Major Hawke was somewhat startled at the little avalanche of
welcoming cards and notes. "Bravo! this will throw old Hugh off
the track a bit also. The simple duty of piquing local curiosity
shall open all hearts, hearths, and homes to me!" And then, Alan
Hawke joyously realized how easily the light-headed world can
be fooled to the top of its bent by the hollow trick of a bit of
mystery play.

"This falls out rightly," he mused. "I will take up all the threads
of my old society life and Madame Berthe Louison may deign to
confide a bit in me the first half of the story forced from her,
then I will guess out all the missing links of the chain. Once
domiciled here, she is helpless in my hands, for I can either gain
her inner secrets, or boldly checkmate her. And the veiled Rose of
Delhi?"

Alan Hawke dreamed not of the sorrows of the restless heart beating
in that virginal bosom. He paced the veranda of the Club gravely
preoccupied till the midnight hour. Long before that, Justine
Delande had sought her rooms in a feeble flutter of excitement over
the harmless assignation of the morrow. There was a stern old man
pacing his splendid hall alone, with an unhappy heart, that night,
for Hugh Johnstone saw again in the sweet uplifted eyes of his
beautiful child the old unanswered question!

He stood long gazing out upon the unpitying stars, while above
him, lonely and lovely, Nadine recked not the queenly splendor of
her magnificent apartment. Glittering wealth, splendid train of
servants, the golden future stretching out before her, all this
she noted not, for, even in the gray, colorless life of the pension
school at Geneva, soft-eyed Hope whispered to her of a gentle and
gracious mother! Loved--gone before, but not lost--and, here in
the land of gaudy Asiatic splendors, a strange land of wonderment
and fairy riches, she sobbed alone in her heart anguish:

"He will not speak! He tells me nothing! A marble palace this,
but never a home!" The timid girl had seen no beloved woman's face
upon the fretwork of the walls of this Aladdin's castle. And, in
her own frightened heart, she remembered the ashen pallor of her
father's face when she had faltered out the burning question of
her yearning heart--the question of long years! The past was still
a blank to her, while on this same night, crafty Alan Hawke in
Delhi, and, in far Calcutta, a woman, pacing her boudoir in sad
unrest, were both busied with the story of the vanished mother whom
the Rose of Delhi had never seen!

Alixe Delavigne, lonely and resolute, was thinking of her departure
on the morrow, to face the man who had locked his dead past in
his own marble heart, in his grand marble palace. Her busy days at
Calcutta had astounded the senior manager of Grindlay & Co. The old
banker marveled at the strange commissions and imperative orders of
his beautiful business client, but many years had taught him much
of the incomprehensibility of womanhood! Whereupon he marveled in
silence, and bowing with his hand upon his heart, assured the lady
of his absolute discretion, and the unbroken honor of the house.
"Some very queer little life histories go on out here in India!"
mused the old banker, as he handed the lady her special letter to
the Delhi agents of the great house which house which he directed.
"As beautiful as a statue, as firm as a flint! Where have I seen
a face like hers?" mused the old man, as he sought his rest.

The "beautiful statue" was steadfastly gazing at the picture of
the young Rose of Delhi, in her lonely boudoir. "She shall learn
to love her! To love her--through me! And this man of iron shall
yield! He shall hear my prayer! For, if he does not, then, he
shall be struck to the heart--blow for blow! And Fate shall pass
her over! I swear it by that lonely grave in far away Jitomir!"
There were kisses rained upon the pictured face smiling up at her,
the face which had called back to her the dead past, and then the
"beautiful statue" tore aside her gown. She gazed upon a folded
paper which had long lain upon her throbbing heart. "This shall
speak for me--at the last! His pride shall bend! He shall not break
the child's heart!  For the mother's sake, I swear it! She shall
love and be loved!" and as she spoke, in far away Delhi sweet
Nadine stirred in her sleep, and smiled, with opening arms, for
the phantom mother she fondly sought seemed to clasp her now to a
loving breast!

In the Delhi Club there was high wassail below him, while Major
Alan Hawke restlessly paced his spacious rooms above, watching the
lonely white moon sail through the clearest skies on earth. The quid
mines had all observed the patiently haughty air of the returned
Major, and even the chattering club stewards marveled at the sudden
efflorescence of Hawke Sahib's fortunes.

"Devilish neat-handed fellow, Hawke," growled old Major Bingo Morris,
over his whist cards. "Close-mouthed fellow! Always wonder why he
left the service! Neat rider! Good hand with gun and spear!  He
ought to be in our Staff Corps! He knows every inch of the northern
frontier!" The old Major glared around, inviting further comment.

"Fellow in Bombay tells me he went a cropper about some woman
or other, ten years ago," lisped a rosy young lieutenant who was
spreading the golden revenues of a home brewery over the pitfall-dotted
path of a rich Indian sub.

"Right you are!" sententiously remarked Verner of the Horse Artillery.
"He went a stunning pace for a while, and at last had to get out.
Big flirtation--wife of commanding officer! Hawke acted very nicely.
Said nothing--sacrificed himself. That's why the women all like
him. Very safe man. But, he's a shy bird now." They dissected his
past, guessed at his present, but could not read his future!

And then and there, the man who knew it all, told of the mysterious
governmental quest confided to Major Alan Hawke. "You see, he has
a sort of roving commission in mufti, to counteract the ceaseless
undermining of the Russian agents in Persia, Afghanistan and in
the Pamirs. We always bear the service brand too openly. It gives
away our own military agents. Now, Hawke's a fellow like Alikhanoff,
that smart Russian duffer! He can do the Persian, Afghan, or
Thibetan to perfection! He has been on to London. Some morning he
will clear out. You'll hear of him next at Kashgar, or in Bhootan,
or perhaps he will work down into China and report to the Minister
there. He is a Secret Intelligence Department of One, that's all!"

"That's all very irregular for Her Majesty's Service," growled an
envious agnostic.

"Bah! Secret Service has no rules, you know," said the man who knew
it all, thrusting his lips deeply into a brandy pawnee.

And so it was noted that Alan Hawke was a devilish pleasant fellow,
a rising man, and one who had certainly dropped into an extremely
good thing. The tide of Fortune was setting directly in favor
of the man who, pacing the floor upstairs, unavailingly tormented
himself with the subject of the missing jewels.

"If I could only get a hold on Hugh Johnstone!" mused the adventurer.
"Berthe Louison knows nothing of these old matters. She only seeks
to approach the child. And she will be here to watch me in a day or
so. Ram Lal, the old scoundrel! Does he know? If he did, he would
bleed the would-be Baronet on his own account. But he may not know
of the golden opportunity, and the old wretch always has many irons
himself in the fire. Hugh Fraser was a canny Scot in his youth.
Sir Hugh Johnstone is a horse of another color. If old Johnstone
has the jewels, why does he not yield them up? Perhaps he wants
the Baronetcy first, and then his memory may be strangely refreshed."

As the wanderer strode up and down the room like a restless wolf,
he returned in his memories to the strange intimacy of Hugh Fraser
and Ram Lal. "I have it!" he cried. "I will kill two birds with
one stone. My pretty 'employer' shall furnish the golden means to
loosen old Ram Lal's tongue. This Swiss woman is fond of gewgaws,
he tells me. I will let Ram Lal 'squeeze' the Madame's household
accounts to his heart's content. If the Swiss woman is susceptible,
she can be delicately bribed with jewels paid for by my haughty
employer's money, and my feeding this 'bucksheesh' out to Ram Lal
liberally may bring him to talk of the old days. I must give Hugh
Johnstone the idea that I am inside the official secrets as to the
affair of the Baronetcy. Fear will make him bend, if he is guilty,
and I will alarm Ram Lal at the right time. If they have any old
bond of union, the ex-Commissioner may turn to me for help, and
all this will bring me nearer to the still heart-whole woman who
is hidden in that marble prison. I will make my strongest running
on the Swiss woman.  Once the bond of friendly secrecy established
between us, she can be fed, bit by bit, for then she dare not break
away."

Ram Lal Singh was the last watcher in Delhi who coveted a glimpse
that night into the dim future. The old schemer sat alone in his
favorite den in rear of the shop. His round, black eyes surveyed
complacently his faithful domestics, sleeping on the floor at the
threshold of the doors of the four rooms opening into the central
hall of his shop. A single clap of his hands, and these faithful
retainers were ready to rise, tulwar in hand, and cut down any
intruder.

The old jewel merchant's eye roved over the medley of priceless
bric-a-brac in the main hall. The spoils of temple and olden palace
cast grotesque, soft, dark shadows on the floor, under the glimmer
of the swinging cresset lamp filled with perfumed nut oil. Seated
cross-legged, and nursing the mouth-piece of his narghileh, Ram
Lal pondered long over the sudden appearance of the rehabilitated
Major Hawke, and the coming of the rich Mem-Sahib who was to be a
hidden bird in the luxurious nest already awaiting its inmate.

Ram Lal was vaguely uneasy, as he glanced at the pretty pavilion
in his own compound, where languid loveliness awaited his approach.
He resigned himself with a sigh to his lonely schemes. He rose and
with his own hand, poured out a draught of the forbidden strong
waters of the Feringhee.

Dropping down upon the cushions, he reviewed the whole day's doings.
"It is not for him, for Hawke Sahib, this bungalow of delight is
made ready! And the old Sahib is to know nothing. Can it be a trap
for him? I am to watch the old man for Hawke Sahib. This woman
who comes. They say here he will go soon away, over the sea to the
court of the Kaisar-I-Hind. He is rich, why does he linger? And
perhaps not return.

"All these long years of my watch thrown away! For, never a single
one of the sacred jewels has he shown me! They have never seen the
light since the awful day in Humayoon's Tomb. Has he the jewels?
Does he hide them? Has he buried them? Has he sent them away? If
he has them, then he dies the death of a dog. The jewels of a king
to be the spoil of a low tax-gatherer! The King of Kings.

"But why does he not go? I have watched him for years.

"There is some reason! Hawke Sahib shall tell me all! He must tell!
He needs my help!" The old man's slumbers were haunted with the
olden memories of a day of doom, the day when the bodies of the
sacred Princes of Oude lay naked in the glaring sun as they were
despoiled after Hodson's pistol had done its bloody work. "They may
have taken them all from him, these English are greedy spoilers,"
muttered the crafty old man, as his head fell upon the silken cushions
with a curse. He was a rebel still, as rank as Tantia Topee.

In the splendid marble palace of Hugh Johnstone, the startled Justine
Delande was awake long before the dawn, thinking only of the meeting
of the morning, her bosom heaving with its first questionable
secret, but Major Alan Hawke smiled as he leisurely breakfasted
later, reading a telegram just received. "On my way.  Will come to
private address. Send servants to Allahabad to join me.  Silence
and discretion.--Lausanne."


CHAPTER V.

A DIPLOMATIC TIFFIN.


Major Alan Hawke had designedly breakfasted in the stately seclusion
of his rooms, and as he came gravely sauntering into the Club
ordinary, was at once beset by a friendly chorus, as he carelessly
glanced over the morning letters which attested his progress toward
the social zenith. He, however, gazed impatiently at the club-house
door, where a neat pair of ponies awaited him, with servants deftly
purveyed by the subtle Ram Lal. His two body servants were also
afrites of the same sly Aladdin. His swelling port duly impressed
his old friends.

The man "who had dropped into a good thing" gently put aside sundry
hospitable proffers, politely laughed away several tempting bargains
as to horses, carriages, furnished bungalows, and offers of racing
engagements, hunting bouts, and "private" dinners. "Waiting orders,
d'ye see!" he gently murmured. "Not worth while to set up anything!"
And then, with the air of a martyr, he disappeared, the ponies
springing briskly away, leaving all baffled conjecture behind.
The curious men who were left discussing a flying rumor that Major
Hawke was authorized to raise a Regiment of Irregular Horse for
a special expeditionary secret purpose, wrangled with those who
maintained that a brilliant local civil-service vacancy would be
theatrically filled by the man who now bore a brow of mystery. The
advent of this prosperous Hawke had made the great social deeps of
Delhi to boil like a pot. His mission was one of those things no
fellow could find out.

Laughing in his sleeve, the object of all this sudden curiosity
made a number of detours, and adroitly followed a native servant
down an obscure rear street, after dismissing his pony carriage.
The equipage was busied during the earlier hours of the day in
leaving the visiting cards of the returned soldier of fortune in
certain quarters well calculated to attract social notice.

Threading the spacious gardens in rear of Ram Lal's establishment,
the artful Major entered the jewel merchant's abode without the
notice of the morning gossips of the Chandnee Chouk. "All right,
now," he laughed, as he bade the sly merchant set a private guard
to prevent all intrusion upon their privacy. "I think that I have
thrown these fellows off the track very neatly!" he laughed. "No
one knows of your rear entrances at the club, I am sure!" It suited
the luxurious old jewel merchant to hide the opulence of his secret
life, and to veil the graceful lapses of his private code from the
sober austerities of a dignified Mohammedanism.

"Look alive now, Ram Lal!" said Hawke, briskly, as he handed his
confederate the telegram from Berthe Louison. "You see that the
lady will arrive here tomorrow night! Some one must go down to
Allahabad for her! Are you all ready for her coming?"

"Perfectly!" smiled Ram Lal. "The Mem-Sahib could give a dinner
of twenty covers in an hour after her arrival! You know that the
bungalow was fitted up for--" he bent his head and whispered to
Major Hawke, who laughed intelligently and viciously.

"All right, then! Here is the address in Allahabad, where the lady
is to wait for her conductors. She seems not to wish me to come down.
I will be at the bungalow, then, on your arrival! I will give you
a letter for her," said Hawke. Ram Lal's eyes gleamed in anticipation
of the fat pickings of the Mem-Sahib. He pondered a moment over
the case.

"Then, I will go down myself," complacently said Ram Lal, with an
eye to future business. "You can tell her to trust to me in all
things. She shall travel like a queen!"

"That is better, and so I will telegraph to her, at Allahabad,
this afternoon, that I have sent you to meet her! Have a covered
carriage awaiting her here, and no one must be allowed to follow
her to her hidden nest. It is the making of your fortune with her!"
cried Hawke, as he lit a cheroot.

"Trust to me, Sahib!" answered the wily jewel merchant, relapsing
into an expectant silence. He already connected the arrival of the
beautiful foreigner with the destiny of the opulent man whom he
had revengefully watched for twenty years. Hugh Fraser Johnstone
had heaped up a fortune, but it was not yet successfully deported
to England.

"And the Swiss woman, when may I see her; this morning?" demanded
the adventurer, as he dropped into a cool, Japanese chair.

"My man will bring you the news of her coming!" answerd the oily
old miscreant. "I told him to watch her, and run on to warn me!"
Ram Lal was a wily old Figaro of much experience.

"Good! Then go outside and wait for her," coolly commanded the young
man. "When she comes, you can come in and warn me, and I will be
ready." Ram Lal obediently left Hawke without a questioning word,
and the busy brain of the adventurer was soon occupied with weaving
the meshes for the bird nearing the snare. "This woman's help is
absolutely necessary to me now!" he thought, as he contemplated his
own handsome person in a mirror. "If she can only hold her tongue
and keep a secret, she may be the foundation of my fortunes. I
think that I can make it worth her while, but she must never fall
under the influence of this she-devil in petticoats, who comes
to-morrow night! And yet, the Louison knows she is here! A friendship
between them must be prevented!" He closed his eyes dreamily, and
studied the problem of the future attentively, revolving every point
of womanly weakness which he had observed in his past experience.

He had finally hit upon the right thing. It came to him just as Ram
Lal entered, with his finger on his lip. "She is in there, waiting
for you, and she came alone!" said the crafty merchant. "I can
perhaps frighten her with the idea that Madame Louison wishes to
supplant her as lady bear leader. The future pickings of this young
heiress would be then lost to her! Yes! A woman's natural jealousy
will do the trick!" so sagely mused the young man as he walked out
into the hall, where Ram Lal's treasures were heaped up on every
side. There was no one visible in the shop, but Ram Lal silently
pointed with a brown finger, gleaming with whitest gems, to a
closed door. It was the entrance to the room specially devoted to
the superb collection of arms, the regained loot of Delhi, slyly
collected in the days of the mad sacking by the revengeful English
soldiery. A bottle of rum then bought a princely token.

It had been with a guilty, beating heart that Justine Delande abandoned
her fair, young charge to the morning ministrations of a bevy of
dark-skinned servants. However, the sturdy Genevese waiting-maid
who had accompanied them to India was at hand, when the spinster
incoherently murmured her all too voluble excuses for an early
morning visit to the European shops on the Chandnee Chouk, and then
fled away as if fearful of her own shadow. She was duly thankful
that no one had observed her entrance to the jewel shop, and the
refuge of the room, pointed out by the amiable Ram Lal, at once
reassured her. Justine was accorded a brief breathing spell by the
fates as the Major settled his plans.

It did not seem so very hard, this first fall from maidenly grace,
when Major Alan Hawke, entering the little armory chamber, politely
led the startled woman to a seat, with a graceful self-introduction.

"I should have recognized you any where, Mademoiselle Justine,"
deftly remarked the Major, "by your resemblance to your most charming
sister. You have, I hope, received some private letters from her,
with regard to my visit?" The Swiss gouverriante faltered forth
her affirmative answer, while secretly approving the enthusiastic
judgment of her distant sister upon this most admirable Crichton of
English Majors. "Then," said Hawke, alluringly, "we must be very good
friends, you and I, for we are alone together, among strangers, in
this far-away land!" Then he calmly dropped into an easy discourse,
in which Geneva and Sister Euphrosyne punctuated the graceful flow
of his friendly chat. There was nothing very sinful in the debut
of this little intrigue.

"Let us always speak French!" said Alan Hawke, with a quiet, warning
glance at the closed door. "These same soft-eyed Hindostanees are the
very subtlest serpents of the earth. The only way to do, is never
to trust any of them!" The Major was busied in carefully taking
a mental measurement of Mademoiselle Justine, who, still well on
the sunny side of forty, was really a very comely replica of her
severer intellectual sister. Justine Delande still lingered in that
temperate zone of life where a fair fighting chance of matrimony
was still hers. "If a ray of sunshine ever steals into the flinty
bosom of a Swiss woman, there maybe a gleam or two still left here,"
mused the Major, most adroitly avoiding all reference to Justine's
rosebud charge, and only essaying to place her entirely at her
ease.

But, in proportion as he gracefully labored, the frightened governess
began to realize the danger of her situation.

"I hope that no one will observe us," she said, speaking rapidly
and under her breath. "Mr. Johnstone is so eccentric, so haughty,
and so very peculiar!" Her distress was evident, and the gallant
Major at once hastened to allay her fears.

"I have already thought of that. My old friend, Ram Lal, has a
lovely garden in rear of his house and there we will be entirely
unobserved. For I have so much that I would say to you." It was with
a sigh of relief that the frightened woman hastily passed through
Ram Lal's spacious snuggery in rear of his jewel mart and was soon
ensconced in a little pagoda, where Major Hawke seated himself at
her side and skillfully took up his soft refrains.

In half an hour they were thoroughly en ban rapport, for the
graceful Major Hawke adroitly conversed with his laughing eyes
frankly beaming upon the lonely woman. He had drawn a long breath
of relief when he ran over the letter which the delighted Justine
frankly submitted to him for his inspection. The fair Euphrosyne's
secret advices justified his warmest anticipations. He had conquered
her heart.

"I will not delay you longer this morning," he said at last, with
an artful mock confidence. "I am infinitely grateful to you for so
kindly coming to meet me here. And it is only due to you to tell
you why I begged you to come here to-day. The nature of my important
official duties is such that I am not permitted to exhibit my
real character to any one here as yet. I am charged with some very
delicate public duties which may force me to linger here for some
time, or perhaps disappear without notice, only to return in the
same mysterious manner. But in me you have a stanch secret friend
always. I have already written to your charming sister, and I expect
to receive from her letters which will be followed by letters to
you from her. And I shall write to-day and tell her of your goodness
to me." Miss Justine Delande's eyes were downcast. Her agitated
bosom was throbbing with an unaccustomed fire, and the desire to
be safely sheltered once more in Hugh Johnstone's marble palace
was now strong upon her.

Hawke paused, still keeping his pleading eyes fixed upon the
fluttering-hearted woman's face. "Miss Nadine sees absolutely no
one!" murmured the governess, "and, of course, I never leave her.
It is a very exacting and laborious position, this charge which I
now fill, and of course the life is a very lonely one, though Nadine
is an angel!" enthusiastically cried Miss Justine.

"And so," earnestly said Major Alan Hawke, "I am absolutely prevented
from seeing you, unless you will trust yourself to me, and come
here again." The frightened woman cast a glance at the unfamiliar
loveliness of the secluded garden, with the hidden kiosques, sacred
to Ram Lal's furtive amours.

"I dare not!" she said, with trembling lips. "I would like to come,
but--"

"Listen!" said Alan Hawke, softly taking her unresisting hand, "I
will confide in you. I must, even to-day, go to Hugh Johnstone's
house. He has bidden me to a private interview. And he gives
a tiffin in my honor. I have known him in past years. He does not
as yet know of my official position. My duties are secret. My very
honor forbids me to divulge it. I dare not openly acknowledge an
acquaintance with you, with your sister. It rests with you that
we meet again, for my sake, for your own sake, for your sister's
sake.  I cannot lose you for a mere quibble."

There was a genuine alarm in Justine Delande's voice as she started
up, crying out, "You come to us to-day?"

"Precisely!" gravely said Major Hawke, as he tried a long shot.
"Both Captain Anstruther and myself have the gravest secret duties
in connection with Hugh Johnstone's future. He soon may be Sir Hugh,
you know. And I dare not divulge to him my own delicate functions
in this matter. Now you understand me at last," said Hawke, warmly
pressing Justine Delande's hand. "I feel that I must not lose you,
because I have my duty to perform, and I trust my honor to you. All
will be well if you will only favor me with your womanly kindness,
and trust to me as frankly as I to you. We must meet to-day at Hugh
Johnstone's as absolute strangers. We must also remain strangers
to all appearances for a time," he said at last. The Swiss spinster
gazed up at him piteously.

"May I not even tell Nadine?" she faltered.

"Ah!" carelessly said Alan Hawke, "she is a mere child; I shall
probably never see her. It is you alone that I would trust. Will
you not come here again? I dare not, for your own sake, detain you
longer now." The timid woman glanced hurriedly at her watch.

"I have been here already too long, and I must go! And there is so
much I would say to you!" She was almost handsome in her blushing
confusion.

"Then you will come again, here? Ram Lal is my old factotum!" the
young Major pleaded.

"I will come!" the half-subjugated woman whispered under her breath.
"But when?" Her eyes were meekly downcast and her faltering voice
trembled.

"The day after to-morrow, at the same time," said Alan Hawke, his
heart leaping up in a secret victory, "but no living soul must ever
know of it. I will be here in the pagoda, waiting for you. Ram Lal
will wait for you himself and admit you. Do you promise?" he said,
with a glance which set her pallid cheeks aflame.

"I promise! I promise! Let me go, now!" gasped the excited woman.
With stately courtesy, the Major then led her back into the jewel
merchant's luxurious lounging-room.

"Wait here for a single moment!" he whispered as he quickly poured
out a glass of cordial. And, then, returning in a few moments, he
clasped upon the woman's wrist a bracelet of old Indian gold, whose
flexible links glittered with the fire of a row of old Indian mine
stones. Justine Delande sat mute, as if dreaming.

"Our little secret is now all our own!" he pleasantly murmured.
"Remember! Should we meet at the marble house, you do not know me!
Can you trust yourself? You must--for my sake! This will help you
to remember our first meeting."

"You may depend upon me, whenever you may wish to call upon me,"
she whispered. "I will come!" and then she fled away, with soft,
gliding steps, to regain the safety of her own room before the
trying hour of tiffin.

Major Alan Hawke closed the door, and laughed softly as he threw
himself into a chair. "They are all the same!" he mused. "Not a
bad morning's work! For she will never tell our little secret! And
she will surely come again! She may be my salvation here! Madame
Louison, I now debit you just thirty pounds!" laughed Major Alan
Hawke, as he deftly blew a kiss in the direction of Allahabad. "You
shall pay for this bracelet, and much more! You shall pay for all!
And I'll set this soft-hearted Swiss woman on to watch you, and you
shall pay her well, too! Now, for my old friend, Hugh Johnstone!"
He waited in a most happy frame of mind till his carriage bore him
to the club for an elaborate Anglo-Indian toilet.

There was a crowd of eager gossips secretly tracking him who watched
him roll away in state to the marble house.

"By Jove! I believe that he is the coming man!" said old Captain
Verner. "I wonder if this handsome young beggar is really going in
for the Veiled Rose of Delhi. Just his damned luck!" And then the
loungers left the club window and drank deeply confusion to the
would-be wooer's stratagems.

All unconscious of their busy curiosity, the gallant Major Alan
Hawke calmly descended at the marble house, with a secret oath now
registered to ignore the very existence of Nadine Johnstone, "The
old man is always harping on his daughter," he mused. "I must throw
this old beggar off his guard thoroughly to-day, once and for all.
He must never think that I, too, am 'harping on his daughter.'

"But only let me get to the core of this old secret of the jewels,
and I will find a way to frighten the baronet-to-be until he opens his
miserly old heart." And so the wary guest sought his old friend's
presence. When Major Alan Hawke's neat trap drew up before the
marble house there was an officious crowd of Hindu underlings in
waiting to welcome the expected guest.

Casting his eyes around the wide hall gleaming with its superb
trophies of priceless arms, with a quick glance at the crowd of
sable retainers, Major Hawke realized in all the barren splendors
of the first story the absence of any womanly hand. As he followed
the obsequious house butler into a vast reception room, he murmured:

"A diplomatic tiffin, I will warrant! The old fox is sly." He wandered
idly about the Commissioner's sanctum, admiring the precious loot
of years, displayed with an artfully artless confusion. On the
walls, a series of beautiful Highland scenes recalled the Land o'
Lakes. Pausing before a sketch of a stern old Scottish keep of the
moyen age, Major Alan Hawke softly sneered: "Oatmeal Castle! The
family stronghold of the old line of the Sandy Johnstone's, nee
Fraser." And, picking up the last number of the Anglo-Indian Times,
he then affected a composure which he was far from feeling.

"Damn this sly Scotsman! Why does he not show up?" was the chafing
soliloquy of the Major, now anxious to seal his re-entree into
Delhi society with the open friendship of the most powerful European
civilian within the battered walls of the wicked city. He needed
all his nerve now, for Hugh Fraser Johnstone was a past master of
the arts of dissimulation.

In fact, the mauvais quart d'heure was really due to the innate
womanly weakness of Mademoiselle Justine Delande. This guileless
Swiss maiden had been carried off her feet by the romantic episode of
the morning. Her cool palm still tingled with the meaning pressure
of the handsome Major's hand! She had hastened away to her own
apartment, as a wounded tigress seeks its cave for a last stand!
The concealment of the diamond bracelet was a matter of necessity,
and, with a beating heart, she buried it deep under the poor harvest
of paltry Delhi trinkets which she had already gathered, with a
mere magpie acquisitiveness.

Alan Hawke had builded better than he knew, when he selected this
same bauble. He had been guided by a chance remark of Ram Lal's.
"Give her that," said the crafty old jeweler. "She has priced it a
dozen times since her first coming here." It was the Ultima Thule
of personal decoration to her. The Swiss governess reserved the
secret delight of donning the glittering ornament until she was
positive that no tell-tale spy had observed her innocent assignation
with her sister's chivalric friend. "He must be rich and powerful,"
she murmured as she fled from her room to play the safety game
of being found with the heiress when her Prince Charming should
arrive. Miss Nadine Johnstone failed not to observe the unusual
color mantling her sedate friend's cheeks.

"You look as if you had received some good news. Is the mail in?"
queried Miss Johnstone.

"Not yet. I hastened back, for I forgot to take my watch and was
belated. I fear I am late, even now, for tiffin," demurely replied
the Swiss maiden, dropping for the first time in her life into
the baleful arts of the other daughters of Eve. She had broken the
ice of propriety in which her past life had been congealed and an
insidious pleasure now thrilled her quickened veins, as she felt
herself possessed of a secret, one linking her to an attractive
member of the dangerous sex, and a hero of romance, a very Don Juan
in seductive softness. Her knees trembled at a sudden summons to
report to the Master of the marble house, forthwith.

Her bosom heaved with a vague alarm as she timidly descended
the grand stair, and was conducted to the private snuggery of the
Commissioner adjoining his own apartments. "Does he know aught of
the meeting?" she questioned herself, in the throes of a sudden
fright. She was somewhat reassured as she observed the carriage
drawn up in the compound and, by hazard, caught a glance of Alan
Hawke's graceful martial figure, as he stood regarding her intently
from the safe shelter of the darkened reception-room. Her heart
bounded with delight as her Prince Charming smilingly placed his
finger on his lip.

A sense of manly protection, never felt before, gave her the strength
of ten as she then glided along boldly to face her gray-headed
master. For now she knew that she had a champion at her side, a
man professionally brave, both resolute and charming. Her promise
to meet Alan Hawke again at the jeweler's now took on a roseate
hue.

"I must surely keep my plighted word at all risks," she murmured
to herself. For the sage reflection that she owed a sacred duty
to her sister's friend, now came to comfort her, in her heart of
hearts. It was almost a pious duty which lay before her now. And
so she became brave in the knowledge of the innocent secret shared
between herself and the handsome official visitor.

To her delight and relief she found it an easy task to face Hugh
Johnstone, after that one reassuring glance. Her stern employer
failed to pierce the muslin fortifications of her guilty bosom and
discern the moral turpitude lurking there. She stole a last anxious
glance at her still plump wrist where the diamond bracelet had
softly clasped her flesh, and then softly sighed in relief as the
master calmly said:

"Miss Justine, I have a gentleman of some distinction to entertain
to-day at tiffin. An official visitor. I would be thankful if you
would do the honors. Will you kindly join us in the reception room
in half an hour, and I will present Major Hawke, my old friend. He
has just returned from England."

"And Miss Nadine?" meekly demanded the happy woman. The old
Commissioner's brow darkened, as he shortly said: "My daughter will
be served in her rooms, as usual on such formal occasions. These
interlopers are no part of her life. We may soon leave for Europe,
and she is therefore better off to remain a stranger to these
merely local acquaintances. It is very unlikely that we shall ever
re-visit India! Will you see her and say that I purpose driving
out with her later?"

No woman in India was as happy, at that particular moment, as the
Genevese, who merely bowed in silence, and glided softly away,
having escaped the levin-bolt of Hugh Johnstone's wrath, ever
ready, lurking under his bushy, white eyebrows. It was the work of
a moment for her to fulfill her simple task as messenger, and this
done, she burned to hide herself in her own coign of vantage, for
certain new-born ideas of personal decoration were crystallizing
in her excited brain. For the first time in her life, she would be
fair to man's views; so as to justify the partner of her momentous
secret in the complimentary remarks which, even now, made her ears
tingle in delight.

"Do you know aught of this Major Hawke who comes to-day?" wearily,
said the listless girl. "Some one of these red-faced old relics of
my father's early life, I suppose!" The Rose of Delhi was gazing
wistfully out upon the wilderness of beauty in the tangled gardens,
sweeping far out to where the high stone wall shut off the glare
and flying dust of the Chandnee Chouk.

"Certainly not, Nadine!" softly said the governess. "This is only
a peopled wilderness to me!" Her heart smote her as the girl, with
a sudden lonely sinking of the heart, threw her arms around the
neck of her startled companion.

"I am so unhappy here--so wretched, this is but a gleaning white
stone prison, Justine! I stifle in this wretched land! Why did my
father bring me here to die by inches?" There was no pretense in
her stormy sobs.

"We are soon going home, Darling!" cried the affrighted Swiss. "Just
now your father told me that we were all to leave India forever,
and at once." And so, gently soothing the unhappy girl, orphaned in
her heart, Justine Delande escaped to the first essay of her life
in high decorative art. "There is some strange mystery of the past
in all this! He has a heart of flint, this old tyrant!" murmured
Justine, as with fingers trembling in haste she completed a toilet,
which later caused even old Hugh Johnstone to growl "By Gad! This
Swiss woman's not half bad looking!" A last pang, caused by the
keen secret sorrow of not daring to wear her diamond bracelet,
was effaced by the rising tide of indignation in Justine Delande's
awakened heart. There were strange emotional currents fitfully
thrilling through her usually placid veins as she stole a last glance
at herself in the mirror. "A tyrant to the daughter. I warrant that
in the old days he broke the mother's heart! He never mentions her!
Not a picture is here--nothing--not even a memento, not a reference
to the woman who gave him this lovely child! Her life, her death,
even her resting place, are all wrapped in the selfish and brutal
silence of a selfish tyrant! He should have been only a drill
sergeant to knock about the half-crazed brutes who stagger under
a soldier's pack over these burning plains!" It suddenly occurred
to her that in some mysterious way Major Alan Hawke's coming would
contribute to the rescue of the captive Princess.

Justine Delande really loved her beautiful charge with all the
fond attachment of a mature woman for the one rose blossoming in
her lonely heart. Their gray passionless lives had run on together
since Nadine's childhood, as brooks quietly mingle, seeking the
unknown sea! She now felt the wine of life stirring within her,
and, seizing upon another justification for her dangerous secret
association with Alan Hawke, she murmured: "I will tell him of all
this. He has high influence with the Home Government. This Captain
Anstruther on the Viceroy's staff is certainly his firm friend.
We must leave here and return to dear old Switzerland. Perhaps the
Major himself knows the secret of the family history!"

And there was a meaning light in her eyes as she stole back to
Nadine's room when the silver gong sounded, and throwing her arms
around the girl, whispered: "We are going home soon, darling! Be
brave and trust to me! I will find out the story of the past and
tell you all, my darling!" Justine Delande unwound the girl's arms
from round her neck, while honest tears trembled in her eyes.

The low cry: "My mother! My darling mother! He never even breathes
the name!" had loosened all the tide of repressed feeling long pent
up in Justine Delande's heart.

"Trust to me! You shall know all, dearest! I am sure that Euphrosyne
knows, and we shall see her soon!" So with an added reason for
their second meeting, Miss Justine descended the grand marble stair,
murmuring: "He shall tell me all he knows; he can search the past
here! He can help me, and he must--for Nadine's sake!"

And as he bowed low before her in courteous acknowledgment of the
master's presentation, Alan Hawke caught the lambent gleam of the
newly awakened fires in Justine Delande's eyes. "She is another
woman," he mused. With one silent glance of veiled recognition,
Alan Hawke returned to his diplomatic fence with the wary old nabob
who sat at the head of the glittering table. He was in no doubt
now as to the second meeting at Ram Lal Singh's shop, for Justine
Delande's eyes promised him more than even his habitual hardihood
would have dared to ask. "What the devil's up now?" he mused,
"Something about the girl, I warrant. I suppose that the old brute
has exiled her here for safety." And then and there, Alan Hawke
swore to reach the side of the Veiled Rose of Delhi, though the
cold gray eyes of the host never caught him off his guard a moment
in the two hours of the pompously drawn-out feast. Both the men
were keenly watching each other now.

It had been no mere accidental slip of the tongue which guided
Alan Hawke in his greeting of the old ex-Commissioner when Hugh
Johnstone entered the reception-room, a study in gray and white,
with only the three priceless pigeon-blood rubies lending a color
to his snowy linen. "Upon my word, Sir Hugh, you are looking younger
than I ever saw you," said the visitor gracefully advancing.

"You're a bit premature, are you not, Hawke?" dryly said the civilian,
opening a silver cheroot box, once the property of a Royal Prince
of Oude. Hugh Johnstone motioned his visitor to be seated, and
keenly watched the younger man.

"I am on the inside of the matter," soberly said Alan Hawke. "It
was an open secret when I left London, and I've heard more since.
A brief delay only,--a matter of a few months--no more."

"Take a weed! They serve in half an hour!" abruptly said Hugh
Johnstone, as if anxious to change the subject. The old man then
strode forward and closed the door. Then, turning sharply upon his
visitor, frankly demanded, "Now, tell me why you are here?"

"That depends partly upon your affairs," said Hawke, meeting his
questioner's gaze unflinchingly. "I may have something to say to
you about the Baronetcy, by and bye." He paused to notice the keen
old Scotchman wince under the thrust, "but, in the mean time, I am
merely waiting orders here, and I want you to post me about the
condition of affairs up there." He vaguely indicated with his thumb
the far-distant battlement of the Roof of the World. Hugh Johnstone
rang a silver bell, and muttered a few words in Hindostanee to an
attendant. "I must know more from Calcutta before I can explain
just where I stand," said the renegade soldier, with caution.

Before the silver tray loaded with ante-prandial beverages was
produced, Hugh Johnstone quietly turned to his guest. "Did you see
Anstruther in London?" he demanded, with a scarcely veiled eagerness.

"We were together some days," very neatly rejoined the now confident
Major. "In fact, I'm to operate partly under his personal directions.
We are old friends."

"I wonder when he will return?" dreamily said Johnstone, as if the
subject was growing annoying in its bold directness.

"I believe that he has a long leave--a furlough of a year," lightly
answered the Major. "In fact, I am to carry on some official matters
for him in his absence, but he is wary and non-committal."

"What is his English address?" abruptly said Johnstone, as they
bowed formally over their glasses.

"I do not know," frankly returned Hawke. "I am to send all reports
to headquarters in Calcutta."

"Are you going down there soon?" asked the old nabob, with a growing
uneasiness.

"Not unless I am sent for by the Viceroy," quietly said the Major,
with a listless air, gazing around admiringly on the magnificence
of the apartment.

"I will give you a letter to my nephew, Douglas Fraser, when you
do go," said Johnstone. "He is a fine youngster, and he will have
charge of all my Indian affairs, if I go home. He is in the P. and
O. office. I would like you to know him."

"I did not know that you had any family connection here," replied
the Major with a start of innocent surprise.

"Only this boy," hastily replied the incipient baronet, "and my
daughter. She is, however, a mere child--a mere child. I have seen
the leaves of the family tree wither and drop off one by one." The
host then stiffly rose, and formally said, "Let us go in!"

"You are good for a score of years yet," jovially remarked Major
Hawke, as he gazed at the well-preserved outer man of his uneasy
entertainer. "The harpoon is deeply fixed in the old whale," mused
Hawke, as he followed Hugh Johnstone. "He begins to flounder now."

Conscious of the mental alarm which Hugh Johnstone could not altogether
conceal, Major Hawke had simply bowed, in his grand manner, when
the host presented his guest to Mademoiselle Delande.  "I will let
the old beggar lead out," mused Hawke. "This royal spread is an
excuse for any amount of silence." And the Anglo-Indian renegade
gazed admiringly at the thousand and one adjuncts of a blended
English comfort and Indian luxury.

"Ever been in Geneva?" suddenly demanded Hugh Johnstone, with a
glance at his two companions.

"He's an uneasy old devil. He is trying to trap me now," thought
Hawke, who innocently replied: "Long years ago, when I was a mere
lad. I'm told the town has been vastly improved by the Duke of
Brunswick's legacy. I've not seen it in later years."

"Miss Delande is a Genevese," remarked the host.

"I congratulate you, Mademoiselle," politely said the Major. "It
is a famous city to date from."

It was evident that the spinster was held in reverent awe of her
employer, for she guarded a judicious silence, as with a formal
bow she at last left the table at the graciously permitting nod
of Hugh Johnstone. There was a cold and brooding restraint, which
had seemed to cast a chill even over the sultry Indian midday, but
Justine's smile was bright and winning as she faintly acknowledged
with a blushing cheek Major Hawke's gallantry as he sprang up and
opened the door for the retiring lady. "She will come, she will
come," gayly throbbed the Major's happy heart.

Alan Hawke was now thoroughly on his guard. He had never lifted an
eyebrow at the mention of Miss Johnstone. He had dropped Justine
Delande like a plummet into the lake of forgetfulness, and watched
Hugh Johnstone's listless trifling with the dainties of the superb
collation. The raw-boned old Scotsman leaned heavily back in his
chair.

His bony hands were thin and claw-like, his bushy white beard
and eyebrows gave him a "service" aspect, while his cold blue eye
gleamed out pale and menacing as the Pole star on wintry arctic
seas. His broad chest was sunken, his tall form was bent, and a
visible air of dejection and unrest had replaced the sturdy vigor
of his early manhood. He was sipping a glass of pale ale in silence
when Hawke neatly applied the lance once more. "It must be a great
change for you to leave India, Johnstone, but you need rest, and a
general shaking up. You have a good deal to leave here. I suppose
your nephew--"

"He's a good lad, but a stranger to me, Hawke," broke in the host.
"The fact is, I am as yet undecided. I go home for my daughter's
sake; it's no place for her out here," he sternly said. "You know
what Indian life is?"

Hawke bowed, and mutely cried, "Peccavi." He had been a part of it.
"I'm waiting for the action of the Government. This Baronetcy. I
must talk with you about it. I might have had the Star of India.
You see, it's an empty honor. And I hate to break away for good,
after all. Do you know anything from Anstruther? He was up here,
you know."

"I have him now!" secretly exulted Hawke, as he said gravely, "You
know what duty is, I cannot speak as yet, but you can depend on me
as soon as my honor will permit--"

"Yes, yes, I know," said Hugh Johnstone, with a sigh, rising from
the table. "You must make yourself at home here. In fact, I am
thinking of sending my daughter back to Europe. Douglas Fraser can
have them well bestowed; that is, if I have to remain and fight out
this Baronetcy affair, then I could put you up here." Alan Hawke
bowed his thanks.

They had wandered back to the reception-room. With an affected surprise
the Major consulted his watch. "By Jove! I've got a heavy official
mail to prepare, and I'm to dine to-day with Harry Hardwicke, of
the Engineers. General Willoughby wants a private conference with
me, and Hardwicke is the only confidential man he has. He gets his
Majority soon, and Willoughby will lose him on promotion. A fine
fellow and a rising man."

"See here, Hawke! Come in to-morrow and dine with me at seven. I
want to have a long talk with you," said the uneasy host.

"You may absolutely depend on me, Sir Hugh," heartily answered the
visitor, with a fine forgetfulness as to the title. When he rode
away, Major Hawke caught sight of a womanly figure at a window above
him, watching his retreat in due state, and there was the flutter
of a handkerchief as his carriage drove around the oval. "I wonder
if Ram Lal knows about the jewels. I must buy him out and out,
or make Berthe Louison do it unconsciously for me," so mused the
victorious renegade. "He is afraid of me! Now to dispatch Ram Lal
to Allahabad.  I must only see Berthe Louison, at night, in her own
bungalow, for my shy old bird would take the alarm were we seen
together. What the devil is her game? I know mine, and I swear
that I will soon know hers. I have him guessing now. I must hunt
up Hardwicke and call on old Willoughby to keep up the dumb show.
Johnstone may watch me--very likely he will. He is afraid of some
coup de theatre." He drove in a leisurely way back to the Club and
sported the oak after giving Ram Lal his last orders.

"I think I hear the jingle of gold 'in the near future,' as the
Yankees say; and, Miss Justine, you shall open the way to the veiled
Rose of Delhi for me, while Berthe Louison tortures this old vetch.
Place aux dames! Place aux dames!" he laughed.


BOOK II.

"A DEVIL FOR LUCK."

CHAPTER VI.

THE MYSTERIOUS BUNGALOW.


If the fates favored Major Alan Hawke upon this eventful day, for
as he was contentedly awaiting the news of Ram Lal's departure for
Allahabad, the card of Captain Harry Hardwicke, A. D. C., and of
the Engineers, was sent up to him. With a neat bit of Indian art,
old Ram Lal had sent the carriage around to report, as a mute signal
of his own departure. It was a flood tide of good fortune!

In ten minutes, the Major and his welcome guest were spinning along
in the cool of the evening, toward the deserted ruins of the old
city of Delhi! As they passed through the Lahore gate, Hardwicke's
pith helmet was doffed with a jerk, as a superb carriage passed
them, proceeding in a stately swing. Major Alan Hawke bowed low as
he caught the cold eye of the would-be Sir Hugh Johnstone.

"Who are the ladies, Hardwicke?" laughed the Major, as he saw the
young officer's face suddenly crimson. "For a man who won the V.
C.  in your dashing style, you seem to be a bit beauty-shy!" They
were hardly settled yet for their cozy chat. Hardwicke lit a cheroot
to cover his evident confusion.

"I know" he slowly answered, "that one of them is Miss or Madame
Delande, old Fraser's house duenna--I will still call him Fraser,
you see--the other is the mystery of Delhi. Popularly supposed
to be the old boy's daughter, and his sole heiress, Miss Nadine,"
concluded the young aid-de-camp. "The old curmudgeon keeps her
judiciously veiled from mortal ken. No man but General Willoughby
has ever exchanged a word with her. The dear old boy--his memory
does not go back beyond his last B. and S.--he can't even sketch her
beauty in words. And she is as hazy, even to the Madam-General--our
secret commanding officer. There is a continuous affront to society
in this old monomaniac's treatment of that girl."

"You would like to storm the Castle Perilous, and awaken the
Sleeping Beauty?" archly said Hawke, as they rolled along under a
huge alley of banyan trees.

"Not at all," gravely said Hardwicke. "She is only a girl, like other
girls, I presume; but, this old fool is only fit for the old days,
when the kings of Oude flew kites and hunted with the cheetah; or,
half drunken, dozed, lolling away their lives in these marble-screened
zenanas, with the automatic beauties of the seraglio. Our English cannon
have knocked all that nonsense silly.  Here is a high-spirited,
Christian English girl, shut up like a slave. It's only the
unfairness of the thing that strikes me." Hawke eyed the blue-eyed,
rosy young fellow of twenty-six with an evident interest. Stalwart
and symmetrical in figure, Hardwicke's frank, manly face glowed in
indignation.

"You've won your spurs quickly out here," said Hawke. "You have not
been long enough in India to case-harden into the cursed egotism
of this hard-hearted land, and remember, age, crawling on, has
indurated old 'Fraser-Johnstone.' He was never an amiable character.
What do the ladies of the city say of this strange social situation?
I never knew that the old beast had a daughter till to-day."

Captain Hardwicke wearily replied: "They all hold aloof, of course,
after some very rough rebuffs, as I believe the old boy will clear
out for good when he gets his baronetcy. It's possible that the
girl is half a foreigner after all," mused Hardwicke. "The duenna
is surely a continental."

"Yes; but she seems to be a very nice person. I was there to-day
at tiffin," finally said Major Hawke,

"She had very little to say, and cleared out at once. I did not
see Miss Johnstone." They fell into an easy, rattling chronicle of
things past and present, and before the two hours' ride was over,
the astute Major felt that he had divined General Willoughby's
object in sending his pet aid-de-camp to reconnoitre Hawke's lines
and pierce the mystery of his rumored employment.

"I suppose that you will come up and duly report to the Chief,"
rather uneasily said Captain Hardwicke, as they neared the Club on
their return. Hawke cast a glance at the superb domes of the Jumma
Musjid towering in the thin air above them, as he slowly answered:

"I am only here on a roving secret commission. I shall call, of
course, and pay my personal respects to His Excellency, the General
Commanding. I am an official will-o'-the-wisp, just now, but my
blushing honors are strictly civil, and, by the way, in expectancy.
Where does your promotion carry you?"

"Oh, anywhere--everywhere," laughed Hardwicke. "I may be sent home.
I'm entitled to a long leave--there's my wound, you know. I've only
stayed on here to oblige Willoughby." It was easy to see that the
frank, splendid young fellow was but awkwardly filling his role
of polite inquisitor, for they talked shop a couple of hours over
a bottle at the Club, and Hardwicke at last took his leave, no whit
the wiser.

"If he did not post me as to the heiress, at least, old Willoughby
gets no valuable information," laughed the Major, that night. "The
boy seems to be ambitious and heart-whole. Old Johnstone will soon
clear out to the Highlands, I suppose, with this hidden pearl."
But Major Hawke laughed softly when the morning brought to him a
personal invitation to dine "informally" with General Willoughby.
"Wants to know, you know," laughed the Major. "All I have to do is
to keep cool and let him drink himself jolly, and so, answer his
own questions."

"That Hardwicke is an uncommonly fine young fellow." So decided
the Major as he splashed into his morning tub. There was one man,
however, in Delhi who now viewed Hawke's presence with a secret
alarm, amounting to dismay. It was the stern old miserly Scotsman
who had paced his floor half the night in a vain effort to
reassure himself. "What does he know? I must have old Ram Lal watch
him," mused Hugh Johnstone. "I was a fool not to have cleared out
from here months ago, before these spies were set upon me. First,
Anstruther; now this fellow, Hawke, and, perhaps, even Hardwicke.
If it were not for the old matter I would go to-morrow, and let the
Baronetcy go hang--or find me in the Highlands. But, I must make
one last attempt to get them out. I must--" and the old man slept
the weary sleep of utter exhaustion.

Before the nabob awoke, Captain Henry Hardwicke, swinging away
on his morning gallop, had reviewed the strange attitude of Major
Hawke. "He is very intimate with Hugh Johnstone, and he is a man
of the world, too. I will yet see this charming child, when the
ban of her prison seclusion is lifted." He vaguely remembered the
one timid and girlish glance of the beautiful dark eyes, when he
had been presented, pro-forma, to the Veiled Rose upon that one
memorable state visit. He then rode out of his way to gaze at the
exterior of the great marble house, and was rewarded by the sight
of a graceful woman walking there under her governess's escort in
the dewy freshness of the early morn.

He doffed his helmet as Miss Justine paused among the flowers,
and then Miss Nadine Johnstone looked up to see the graceful rider
disappear behind the fringing trees.

"That was Captain Hardwicke, was it not?" asked the lonely girl.
Miss Justine was busied in dreaming of her meeting of the morrow.

"Yes, it was," she absently replied.

"They tell me that he nobly risked his life to save his wounded
friend," dreamily continued Nadine. "He gave back to a father the
life of an only son at the risk of his own. How brave--how noble."
And Justine gazed at her charge in surprise, as the beautiful Nadine
bent her head to greet her sister flowers.

The resolute Major Hawke, at his cheerful breakfast, was busied with
thoughts of the coming arrival of Hugh Johnstone's secret foe. "I
must have money from her at once to swing Ram Lal's Private Inquiry
Bureau and to mystify these quid nuncs here. For I must entertain
the clubmen a bit. It's as well to begin, also, to pot down a bit
of her money for the future. She shall pay her way, as she goes."
And, with a view to the further cementing of his rising social
pyramid, he planned a very neat little dinner of half a dozen of
the most available men whom he had selected as being "in the swim."
"The next thing is to discover what the devil she really wants of
old Johnstone! She must show her hand now, and then soon call on
me for help."

He gazed at his little memorandum of "pressing engagements." "A
pretty fair book of events. First, old Johnstone's dinner--more
of the boring process--then to welcome my strange employer, and,
after that, Mademoiselle Justine! Later, I'll have my own little
innings with General Willoughby, and, finally play the gracious
host while Ram Lal watches Madame Louison's cat-like play upon her
victim.  Money I must have, her money first, to pay the piper,"
he laughed, which proposed liberality was destined to doubly bribe
the wily old jewel merchant. At that very moment Ram Lal, securely
hidden away in the native compartment of the train, rushing on from
Allahabad toward Delhi, was dreaming of the long-deferred triumph
of a life!

"If he has them--if they can be traced--they shall be mine if
every diamond gleams red with his heart's blood! Perhaps these two
strange people have brought them. Who knows? They are rich; it may
be the jewels!" And Ram Lal dreamed of a tripartite watch upon the
three principal figures of the opening drama. "The jewels were a
king's ransom. But I shall know all," he softly smiled, for every
attendant of the beautiful recluse now burning to meet her advance
spy was a sworn confederate of Ram Lal in a dark brotherhood whose
very name no man even dared to lisp! And so the long, blazing day
wore away, bringing the hunter and the hunted nearer together. The
mysterious bungalow was now alive with the slaves of luxury, while
Alan Hawke secretly inspected the last finishing touches, for he,
alone, was master of the private entrance once used by a man whose
glittering rank had lifted him presumably above all human weaknesses!

Major Hawke departed for the Club in a very good humor, after his
hour of inspection of the jewel box bungalow now ready for his
fair employer. It was a perfect cachette d' amour, and its superb
gardens, so long deserted, were now only a tangled jungle of luxuriant
loveliness! The light foot of the beauty for whom this Rosamond's
Bower had been prepared had wandered far away, for a substantial
block of marble now held down the great man, who had in the old
days found the welcome of his hidden Egeria so delicious in this
long-deserted bungalow. For the dead Numa Pompilius slept now with
his fathers, in far away Merrie England, and--as is the wont--the
mortuary inscriptions on his tomb recorded only his virtues. But
both his virtues and failings were of no greater weight now to a
forgetful generation, which knew not the departed Joseph, than the
drifted leaves in the garden alleys where the romance of the old
still lingered in ghostly guise! "There were no birds in last year's
nest," but the mysterious bungalow had been hastily arranged for
the lovely successor to the vanished queen of a cobweb Paradise.
The bungalow, itself, was adroitly constructed with a special
reference to seclusion as well as comfort. An Indian Love's Labyrinth.

"Just the very place!" murmured Alan Hawke, as he hastened away to
dress for the diner de famille, with his timorous secret foe, Hugh
Johnstone. "I wonder if my canny friend, in his humble days as Hugh
Fraser, ever assisted at lespelits diners de Trianon here?

"Probably not, for friend Hugh was ever apter in squeezing the
nimble rupee than in chanting sonnets to his mistress's eyebrow.
How the devil did he ever catch a wife, such as Valerie Delavigne
must have been? Either a case of purchase or starvation, I'll
warrant!"

Ram Lal Singh was growing dubious as to the perfect sweep of his
hungry talons over Madame Louison's future expenditures. He had
noted, with some secret alarm, a grave-faced, sturdy Frenchman,
still in the forties, who was cast in the role of either courier
or butler for the beautiful Mem-Sahib, whose loveliness in extenso
he so far only divined by guess-work.

In the stranger lady's special car there was also, at her side, a
truculent Parisienne-looking woman of thirty, whose bustling air,
hawk-like visage, and perfect aplomb bespoke the confidential
French maid. "I must tell Hawke Sahib of this at once," mused Ram
Lal. "We must, in some way, get rid of these foreign servants."
The man had a semi-military air, heightened by the sweeping scar--a
slash from a neatly swung saber. This purple facial adornment was
Jules Victor's especial pride. In these days of "ninety" he often
recurred to the stroke which had made his fortune in the dark reign
of the Commune.

As a wild Communard soldier he had risked his life vainly to save
the aged Colonel Delavigne from a furious mob, for the red rosette
in the old officer's buttonhole had cost him his life in an awkward
promenade, and this sent the orphans, Valerie and Alixe Delavigne,
adrift upon the mad maelstrom of Paris incendie. While Ram Lal
glowered in his dissatisfaction, Madame Berthe Louison complacently
regarded her two secret protectors on guard in the special car. For
the strange turn of Fortune's wheel, which had left Alixe Delavigne
alone in the world, and rich enough to effect her special vengeance
upon her one enemy, had given to Jules Victor and his wife Marie
a sinecure for life as the personal attendants of the soi-disant
Madame Berthe Louison.

Marie was but a wild-eyed child of ten when Jules had picked her
up in the flaming streets of Paris, and they had graduated together
from the gutters of Montmartre into the later control of Madame
Louison's pretty little pied d' terre in Paris, hard by Auteuil,
in that dreamy little impasse, the Rue de Berlioz. Neither of these
attendants were faint-hearted, for their young hearts had been
attuned early to the wolfish precocity of the Parisian waif. And
they had followed their resolute mistress in her weary quest of
the past years.

Berthe Louison smiled in a comforting sense of security, as she
gazed listlessly out upon the landscape flying by.

The two servants, modestly voyaging out to Calcutta, on a telegraphic
summons, to embark at Marseilles, had preceded the Empress of India
by ten days. So, neither friendless, nor without untiring devotion,
was the wary woman who had thus secretly armed herself against any
"little mistake" on the part of Major Alan Hawke. Certain private
instructions to the manager of Grindlay & Co., at Calcutta, had
caused that respectable party to open his eyes in wonder.

"Of course, Madame, our local agent at Delhi will act in your
behalf, with both secrecy and discretion. I have already written him
a private cipher letter in regard to your every wish being fulfilled."

Such is the potent influence of a letter of credit, practically
approaching the "unlimited."

"If I could only use Jules in the double capacity of gentleman and
factotum, I would dress him up a la mode and let him approach Hugh
Johnstone," mused the beautiful tourist, but I must be content to
use this cold-hearted adventurer Hawke, for he has at least a surface
rank of gentleman, and, moreover, he knows my enemy! I must keep
Jules and Marie every moment at my side, for some strange things
happen in India by day as well as by night. Sir Hugh may dream of
some 'unusually distressing accident' as a means of safely ridding
himself of a long slumbering specter."

"Of course, this sly jeweler is Alan Hawke's spy! A few guineas
extra, however, may buy his 'inner consciousness' for me," she
mused. And so it fell out that Ram Lal Singh was destined to drop
into the secret service of both Hawke and the fair invader! And,
as yet, neither of his intending employers could divine the dark
purposes of the oily rascal who had stealthily watched Hugh Fraser
for long years to slake the hungry vengeance of a despoiled traitor
to the last King of Oude.

Major Hawke found the tete e tete dinner with Hugh Johnstone a mere
dull social parade. There was no demure face at the feast slyly
regarding him, for while the two watchful secret foes exchanged
old reminiscence and newer gossip, Justine Delande was cheering
the lonely girl, whose silent mutiny as to her shining prison life
now reached almost an open revolt. It was a grateful relief to the
Swiss woman, whose agitated heart was softly beating the refrain:
"To-morrow! to-morrow! I shall see him again!" She feared a
self-betrayal!

While the governess mused upon the extent of her proposed revelations to
the handsome Major, that rising social star had adroitly exploited
his long tete e tete with Captain Hardwicke to his host, and
gracefully magnified the warmth of General Willoughby's personal
welcome.

"You see, Johnstone," patiently admitted the man who had dropped
into a good thing, "They all want to delve into the secrets of my
mission here. You, of all men," he meaningly said, "cannot blame
me for throwing the dust into their eyes. I detest this intrusion,
and so in sheer self-defense I am going to give a formal dinner
to a lot of these bores, and then cut the whole lot when I've once
done the decent thing." Circling and circling, and yet never daring
to approach the subject, old Hugh Johnstone warily returned to the
suspended baronetcy affair, at last revealing his secret burning
anxieties. But when Alan Hawke heard the train whistles, announcing
the arrival of his beautiful employer, he fled away from the
smoking-room in a mock official unrest.

"I am expecting dispatches from England, and also very important
detailed secret instructions. I've had a warning wire from Calcutta."

He had broken off the se'ance brusquely with a design of his own,
and he rejoiced as Hugh Johnstone brokenly said: "Let me see you
very soon again. I must have a plain talk with you." The old nabob
was in a close corner now. There had been a few bitter queries
from the half-distracted girl which showed, even to her stern old
father, that his position was becoming untenable.

"Damn it! I must either talk or send her away," he growled when
left alone. "I've half a mind to telegraph Douglas Fraser to come
here and convoy this foolish young minx home to Europe. She may
grow to be a silent rebel like her mother." His scowl darkened.
"And yet, where to send her? I ought to go with them. Can I trust
the Delandes to find a safe place to keep her till I come?" He was
all unaware that his daughter Nadine was now a woman like her bolder
sisters of society, but it was true. The chrysalis was nearing the
butterfly stage of life and beating the bars with her wings.

The secret exultation of Justine Delande in her shadowy hold on
Major Alan Hawke caused her to furtively lead Nadine Johnstone to
the head of the great stairway, when Hawke made his adieux.

"He is a handsome young officer," timidly whispered the girl,
shrinking back out of sight. "What can he have in common with my
father? I thought he was some old veteran." And the awakened heart
of Justine Delande bounded in delight. She would have joyed to tell
Nadine of her own romantic budding friendship, but a wholesome fear
tied her tongue, and she was only happy when caressing the diamond
bracelet that night, which encircled her arm, while with dry and
aching eyes she waited for the dawn.

While Hugh Johnstone paced the veranda of his lonely marble palace
that night, a prey to vague fears, and unwilling to face the accusing
eyes of his daughter, Major Alan Hawke, with a sudden astonishment,
stood mute before the splendid woman who received him in the
mysterious bungalow. There was scant ceremony of greeting between
them, for Berthe Louison impatiently grasped his hands.

"He is here, and the girl, too," she said, with blazing eyes. She
stood robed as a queen before her secret agent. "Where were you?
You left me here to wait in a torment of anxiety."

"I have just come from his dinner table," quietly said the startled
Major. "They are both here, and well. I am already intimate at the
house, but I have not seen the girl. I feared being followed or I
would have met you at the train." He marveled at her royal beauty.
She was conscious now of the power of wealth, and some hidden fire
glowed in her veins. "What can I do for you? He watches me. I can
only come at night."

"Ah!" the lady sternly said, "we must then play at hide and seek!"

Ringing a silver bell twice, Madame Louison sank into a chair. Alan
Hawke started up, inquiringly, as Jules and Marie entered the room
from an ante-room, whose door was left ajar.

"Jules! Marie!" calmly said Madame Louison. "This gentleman is my
secret business agent. He will call here in the evenings very often.
He has pass keys of his own, and you need not announce him. He is
the only person who has the right to be in my house--at all times."
The husband and wife bowed in silence and, at a gesture from their
mistress, departed silently, having mentally photographed the
newcomer.

Gazing in open-eyed astonishment, the surprised Major faltered,
"Who are these people? Why did you do this strange thing?"

"To assure myself of safety," quietly smiled Berthe Louison. "They
are my personal servants, whom I brought on from Calcutta, and I
have reason to believe that Jules is both alert and courageous. He
is a veteran of the Tonquin war, and that pretty scar was a present
from the Black Flags. They were selected by one who knows the wiles
of my desperate enemy Johnstone."

"Now, Major Hawke, let us to business" calmly continued Berthe,
secretly enjoying Alan Hawke's dismay. "Tell me your whole story.
Only the events since your arrival here. The rest counts for nothing.
We are all on the ground here and I propose to act quickly.  I
learned some matters in Calcutta which have greatly enlightened
me." The facile tongue of the renegade was slow to do the bidding
of his unready brain. "Damme! But she's a cool one!" the ex-officer
concluded, as he caught his breath. But, conscious of her watchful
eye, he related all his adventures, with a judicious reserve as to
Justine Delande. The burning eyes of Berthe Louison were steadily
fixed upon the relator's face, and she was coldly noncommittal when
Hawke paused for breath and a mental recapitulation. The Major now
gazed upon her immovable visage. There was neither joy nor sorrow,
neither the flush of anger nor the trembling of rage, awakened by
the businesslike presentment of the social facts. "She is a human
icicle," he mused. "She has some deadly hold on him!"

"Can you trust this Ram Lal Singh?" the woman demanded in a
business-like tone. Alan Hawke nodded decisively.

"He knows Hugh Fraser Johnstone well?" queried Berthe.

