Produced by Eric Eldred, William Flis
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Note: The evident misprint of Book Six for Book Five in the original
is preserved here.]


                        POOR WHITE


                        A NOVEL BY

                    SHERWOOD ANDERSON

                         AUTHOR OF

                     WINESBURG, OHIO


                            TO

                TENNESSEE MITCHELL ANDERSON


BOOK I


CHAPTER I


Hugh McVey was born in a little hole of a town stuck on a mud bank on the
western shore of the Mississippi River in the State of Missouri. It was
a miserable place in which to be born. With the exception of a narrow
strip of black mud along the river, the land for ten miles back from the
town--called in derision by river men "Mudcat Landing"--was almost entirely
worthless and unproductive. The soil, yellow, shallow and stony, was
tilled, in Hugh's time, by a race of long gaunt men who seemed as exhausted
and no-account as the land on which they lived. They were chronically
discouraged, and the merchants and artisans of the town were in the same
state. The merchants, who ran their stores--poor tumble-down ramshackle
affairs--on the credit system, could not get pay for the goods they handed
out over their counters and the artisans, the shoemakers, carpenters and
harnessmakers, could not get pay for the work they did. Only the town's two
saloons prospered. The saloon keepers sold their wares for cash and, as the
men of the town and the farmers who drove into town felt that without drink
life was unbearable, cash always could be found for the purpose of getting
drunk.

Hugh McVey's father, John McVey, had been a farm hand in his youth but
before Hugh was born had moved into town to find employment in a tannery.
The tannery ran for a year or two and then failed, but John McVey stayed in
town. He also became a drunkard. It was the easy obvious thing for him to
do. During the time of his employment in the tannery he had been married
and his son had been born. Then his wife died and the idle workman took his
child and went to live in a tiny fishing shack by the river. How the boy
lived through the next few years no one ever knew. John McVey loitered in
the streets and on the river bank and only awakened out of his habitual
stupor when, driven by hunger or the craving for drink, he went for a day's
work in some farmer's field at harvest time or joined a number of other
idlers for an adventurous trip down river on a lumber raft. The baby was
left shut up in the shack by the river or carried about wrapped in a soiled
blanket. Soon after he was old enough to walk he was compelled to find work
in order that he might eat. The boy of ten went listlessly about town at
the heels of his father. The two found work, which the boy did while the
man lay sleeping in the sun. They cleaned cisterns, swept out stores and
saloons and at night went with a wheelbarrow and a box to remove and dump
in the river the contents of out-houses. At fourteen Hugh was as tall as
his father and almost without education. He could read a little and could
write his own name, had picked up these accomplishments from other boys who
came to fish with him in the river, but he had never been to school. For
days sometimes he did nothing but lie half asleep in the shade of a bush on
the river bank. The fish he caught on his more industrious days he sold for
a few cents to some housewife, and thus got money to buy food for his big
growing indolent body. Like an animal that has come to its maturity he
turned away from his father, not because of resentment for his hard youth,
but because he thought it time to begin to go his own way.

In his fourteenth year and when the boy was on the point of sinking into
the sort of animal-like stupor in which his father had lived, something
happened to him. A railroad pushed its way down along the river to his town
and he got a job as man of all work for the station master. He swept out
the station, put trunks on trains, mowed the grass in the station yard and
helped in a hundred odd ways the man who held the combined jobs of ticket
seller, baggage master and telegraph operator at the little out-of-the-way
place.

Hugh began a little to awaken. He lived with his employer, Henry Shepard,
and his wife, Sarah Shepard, and for the first time in his life sat down
regularly at table. His life, lying on the river bank through long summer
afternoons or sitting perfectly still for endless hours in a boat, had bred
in him a dreamy detached outlook on life. He found it hard to be definite
and to do definite things, but for all his stupidity the boy had a great
store of patience, a heritage perhaps from his mother. In his new place the
station master's wife, Sarah Shepard, a sharp-tongued, good-natured woman,
who hated the town and the people among whom fate had thrown her, scolded
at him all day long. She treated him like a child of six, told him how
to sit at table, how to hold his fork when he ate, how to address people
who came to the house or to the station. The mother in her was aroused by
Hugh's helplessness and, having no children of her own, she began to take
the tall awkward boy to her heart. She was a small woman and when she stood
in the house scolding the great stupid boy who stared down at her with
his small perplexed eyes, the two made a picture that afforded endless
amusement to her husband, a short fat bald-headed man who went about clad
in blue overalls and a blue cotton shirt. Coming to the back door of his
house, that was within a stone's throw of the station, Henry Shepard stood
with his hand on the door-jamb and watched the woman and the boy. Above
the scolding voice of the woman his own voice arose. "Look out, Hugh," he
called. "Be on the jump, lad! Perk yourself up. She'll be biting you if you
don't go mighty careful in there."

Hugh got little money for his work at the railroad station but for the
first time in his life he began to fare well. Henry Shepard bought the
boy clothes, and his wife, Sarah, who was a master of the art of cooking,
loaded the table with good things to eat. Hugh ate until both the man and
woman declared he would burst if he did not stop. Then when they were not
looking he went into the station yard and crawling under a bush went to
sleep. The station master came to look for him. He cut a switch from the
bush and began to beat the boy's bare feet. Hugh awoke and was overcome
with confusion. He got to his feet and stood trembling, half afraid he was
to be driven away from his new home. The man and the confused blushing boy
confronted each other for a moment and then the man adopted the method
of his wife and began to scold. He was annoyed at what he thought the
boy's indolence and found a hundred little tasks for him to do. He devoted
himself to finding tasks for Hugh, and when he could think of no new ones,
invented them. "We will have to keep the big lazy fellow on the jump.
That's the secret of things," he said to his wife.

The boy learned to keep his naturally indolent body moving and his clouded
sleepy mind fixed on definite things. For hours he plodded straight ahead,
doing over and over some appointed task. He forgot the purpose of the job
he had been given to do and did it because it was a job and would keep him
awake. One morning he was told to sweep the station platform and as his
employer had gone away without giving him additional tasks and as he was
afraid that if he sat down he would fall into the odd detached kind of
stupor in which he had spent so large a part of his life, he continued
to sweep for two or three hours. The station platform was built of rough
boards and Hugh's arms were very powerful. The broom he was using began to
go to pieces. Bits of it flew about and after an hour's work the platform
looked more uncleanly than when he began. Sarah Shepard came to the door of
her house and stood watching. She was about to call to him and to scold him
again for his stupidity when a new impulse came to her. She saw the serious
determined look on the boy's long gaunt face and a flash of understanding
came to her. But how, you ask, can we e'er hope to soar.
Above these scenes, and rise to tragic lore?
Too oft, alas! we've forced the unwilling tear, And petrified the heart
with real fear.
Macbeth a harvest of applause will reap, For some of us, I fear, have
murdered sleep.
His lady, too, with grace will sleep and talk:
Our females have been used at night to walk.
Grant us your favor, put us to the test:
To gain your smiles we'll do our very best, And without dread of future
Turnkey Lockets, Thus, in an honest way, still _pick your pockets_!

It was by the coral-bound Straits of Torres, reckoned by navigators the
most difficult in the world, that the English government determined a few
years ago to send an envoy to open communication between the Australian
colony and the Dutch possessions of Java and Sumatra. The Hero was the vessel
selected for this perilous mission--a voyage of twelve hundred miles through
seas studded thickly with reefs and islands of coral, many of which lay
just beneath the surface of the waves--hidden pitfalls of death
whose yawning jaws threatened instant destruction to the unwary
voyager.

The splendid steamer Cowarra had been wrecked on these reefs only a few
months before, but a single one of her two hundred and seventy-five
passengers escaping a watery grave. Her tall masts, still standing bolt
upright amid the coral-reefs, presented a gaunt spectacle, plainly visible
from the Hero's decks as she threaded her way among the shoaly
waters, while a similar though less tragical warning was the disaster
that had overtaken two other vessels, the Astrolabe and the Zélée,
which by a sudden ebb of the tide were thrown high and dry upon the
sands, and remained in this frightful condition for eight days
before the returning waters drifted them off.

       But the Hero was a staunch craft--an iron blockade-runner, built
at Glasgow during our late war.

She was of twelve hundred tons burden, manned by forty-two men, and had
already weathered storms and dangers enough to earn a right to the
name she bore. Right nobly she fulfilled her dangerous mission,
threading her way with difficulty among whole fields of coral, that sometimes
almost enclosed her low hull as between two walls; again seeming upon the
very verge of the breakers or ready to be engulfed in their whirling
eddies, but emerging at last into the open channel, a monument of the
skill and watchfulness of her officers. Many of these for days together
never left the deck, and the lead was cast three or four times an hour
during the whole passage of these dangerous seas. Such is the history of
navigation in coral seas, but if full of danger, they are equally replete
with picturesque beauty. In the coral isle, with its blue lagoon, its
circling reef and smiling vegetation, there is a wondrous fascination;
while in the long reefs, with the ocean driving furiously upon them,
only to be driven pitilessly back, all wreathed in white foam and
diamond spray, there is enough of the sublime to transfix the most
careless observer.

The barrier reef that skirts the north-east coast of the Australian
continent is the grandest coral formation in the world, stretching for
a distance of a thousand miles, with a varying breadth of from two
hundred yards to a mile. The maximum distance from the shore is seventy
miles, but it rarely exceeds twenty-five or thirty. Between this and the
mainland lies a sheltered channel, safe, for the most part, when reached;
but there are few open passages from the ocean, and the shoals of
imperfectly-formed coral that lie concealed just below the surface render
the most watchful care necessary to a safe passage. The fires of the cannibals,
visible on every peak all along the coast, shed their ruddy light over
the blue waters, illumining here and there some lofty crest, and adding
a weird beauty to the enchanting scene.

[Illustration: MONUMENT TO BURKE AND WILLS.]
"America has no monuments," say our Transatlantic cousins, "because it is
but two hundred years old." Well, Australia, with little more than
three-quarters of a hundred, has already its monument--a beautiful bronze
monument erected to the memory of the explorers Burke and Wills on a lofty
pedestal of elegant workmanship, and occupying a commanding eminence in
the city of Melbourne.

The figures, two in number, are of more than life size, one rising above the
other--the chief, with noble form and dignified air, fraternally supporting
his younger confrere. The pedestal shows three bas-reliefs of
exquisite design--one the return to Cooper's Creek,
[Illustration: BAS-RELIEF: RETURN TO COOPER'S CREEK.]
where the torn garments and emaciated limbs tell with sad emphasis the woeful
tale of hardship and toil through which the heroic explorers had been
passing; another exhibiting the subsequent death of Burke;
[Illustration: BAS-RELIEF: DEATH OF BURKE.]
and the third the finding of the remains.

[Illustration: BAS-RELIEF: FINDING OF BURKE.]
Burke and Wills, to whom belongs the honor of being the first explorers
that crossed the entire continent of Australia, extending their researches
from the Australian to the Pacific Ocean, set out on the 20th of
August, 1860, with a party of fifteen hardy pioneers upon their
perilous mission.

Burke was in the prime of life, a man of iron frame, dauntless courage
and an enthusiasm that knew neither difficulty nor danger. Wills, who
belonged to a family that had already given one of its members to Sir
John Franklin's fatal expedition, to find a martyr's grave among the eternal
icebergs of the north, was somewhat younger, and perhaps less enthusiastic,
but was endowed with a rare discretion and far-seeing sagacity that
peculiarly fitted him to be the friend and counselor of the enthusiastic
Burke in such an undertaking. All Melbourne was in excitement: the
government gave fifty thousand dollars, various individuals ten
thousand, to aid the enterprise; and every heart was aglow with aspirations
for their success as the little band of heroes waved their adieus and
turned their faces outward to seek paths hitherto untrodden by the white
man's foot. Besides horses, twenty-seven camels had been imported from India
for the express use of the explorers and for the transportation of tents,
baggage, equipments, and fifteen months' supply of provisions,
with vessels for carrying such supplies of water as the character
of the country over which they were passing should require them to
take with them.

Their plan of march divided itself into three stages, of which Cooper's Creek
was the middle one, and about the centre of the Australian continent. At
first their progress was slow, encumbered as they were by excess of baggage
and equipments: then discontents arose in the little band, and Burke, too
ardent and impulsive for a leader, was first grieved, and then angered,
at what he deemed a want of spirit among some of his men. On the 19th of
October, at Menindie, he left a portion of the troop under the command
of Lieutenant Wright, with orders after a short rest to rejoin him at Cooper's
Creek. It was the end of January before Wright set out for the point
indicated. Meanwhile, as month followed month, bringing to Melbourne no
news of Burke's party, the worst fears were awakened concerning its
fate, and an expedition was fitted out to search for the lost heroes.
To young Howitt was given the command, and it was his fortune to
unveil the sad mystery that had enveloped their fate. On the 29th of
June, 1861, crossing the river Loddon, Howitt encountered a portion of
Burke's company under the lead of Brahe, the fourth lieutenant. Four of
his men had died of scurvy, and the rest of his little band seemed utterly
dispirited.

Howitt learned that in two months Burke had crossed the entire route,
sometimes desert, sometimes prairie, between Menindie and Cooper's Creek,
and had reached the borders of the Gulf of Carpentaria, on the extreme
north of the continent; also, that he was there in January, enduring
the fiercest heat of summer, and men and beasts alike languishing
for water, and nearly out of provisions.

It was all in vain that he deplored the tardiness of Wright, and hoped, as
he neared Cooper's Creek, for the coming of those who alone had the means
of life for his little squad of famished men. Equally in vain that Wills
with three camels reconnoitred the ground for scores of miles, hoping
to find water. Not an oasis, not a rivulet, was to be found, and without a
single drop of water to quench their parched lips they set out on another
long and dreary march. Desiring to secure the utmost speed, Burke had
left Brahe on the 16th of December with the sick and most of his
provisions at Cooper's Creek, to remain three months at least, and
longer if they were able, while he, with Wills, Grey and King, and six camels,
pushed bravely on, determined not to halt till the Pacific was reached.
Battling with the terrible heat, sometimes for days together without water,
and again obtaining a supply when they had almost perished for want of it,
having occasional fierce conflicts with the natives, and more
deadly encounters with poisonous serpents, but with an energy and
courage that knew no such word as failure, the indomitable quartette
went bravely on.

The wished-for goal was reached, and the heroes, jubiliant though worn and
weary, then returned once more to Cooper's Creek, to find the post deserted
by Brahe, and Wright not arrived, while neither water nor provisions
remained to supply their need.

[Illustration: VALLEY OF LAUNCESTON, VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.]
All this Howitt learned after his arrival at the rendezvous, where he observed
cut in the bark of a tree the word "Dig," and on throwing up the earth found
an iron casket deposited by Brahe, giving the date of his departure and
reasons for withdrawal before the appointed time. Of far deeper interest
were papers written by Burke, announcing that he had reached the Pacific
coast, and retraced his steps as far as Cooper's Creek--that for
two months the little party had advanced rapidly, making constantly
new discoveries of fertile lands, widespread prairies, gushing
streams and well-watered valleys.

Occasionally they had found lagoons of salt water, hills of red sand,
trees of beautiful foliage, and mounds indicating the presence at some
unknown period of the aboriginal inhabitants. They had discovered a range
of high mountains in the north, and called them the Standish Mountains,
while at their foot lay outspread a scene so lovely, of verdant groves
and fertile meadows, of well-watered plains and heavy forest trees,
that they christened it the Land of Promise. Then they reached again more
sterile lands, parched and dry, without a rivulet or an oasis. They
suffered for water and food grew scarce, but, sure of relief at Cooper's
Creek, they pushed bravely on, and reached the rendezvous to learn that
the men who could have saved them had passed on but seven hours before!
After having accomplished so much, so bravely battled with heat and
hunger, serpents and cannibals, to perish at last of starvation, seemed a
fate too terrible; and we cannot wonder that the little band fought
their destiny to the last.

Little scraps of the journal of Burke and his friends tell the sad tale of
the last few weeks of agony. On March 6th, Burke seemed near dying from
having eaten a bit of a large serpent that he had cooked. On the 30th they
killed one of their camels, and on April 10th they killed "Billy,"
Burke's favorite riding-horse. On the 11th they were forced to halt
on account of the condition of Grey, who was no longer able to proceed. On
the 21st they reached an oasis--a little squad of human skeletons,
scarcely more than alive.

[Illustration: COURSE OF THE TAMAR, VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.]

       Far and wide their longing eyes gazed in search of succor: they
called aloud with all their little remaining strength, but the oasis
was deserted, and the echo of their own sad voices was all the reply
that reached the despairing men.

Then, at their rendezvous, finding the word "Dig" on the tree where
Howitt found it at a later day, they opened the soil, and so learned the
departure of Brahe on that very morning. How terribly tantalizing, after
their exhausting march and still more exhausting return, after having
killed and eaten all their camels but two, and all their horses, after
making discoveries that unlocked to the world the vast interior of
this hitherto unknown continent, to find that they were just too late to
be saved! Despair and death seemed staring them in the face: their long
overtaxed powers of endurance failed them utterly, and the gaunt spectre
of famine that had been journeying with the brave men for weeks
threatened now to enfold them in its terrible embrace. Should they yield
without another struggle? Burke suddenly remembered Mount Despair, a
cattle-station about one hundred and fifty leagues away, and with his
indomitable resolution persuaded his companions to start for it, depositing
first in the little iron casket the journal of his discoveries and the
date of his departure. As if to add the last finishing stroke of agony to
the sad story, Burke and his companions had hardly turned their faces
westward ere Brahe and Wright, who had met at the passage of the Loddon,
and were now overwhelmed with remorse at their careless neglect of their
leader's orders, determined to revisit Cooper's Creek, and see if any tidings
were to be gained of the missing party.

[Illustration: GORGE OF THE TAMAR, VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.]
Thoughtless as imprudent, they did not examine the casket, but supposing
it had remained undisturbed where they left it, they turned their faces
southward to the Darling, utterly unsuspicious of the recent visit of Burke
and his unfortunate comrades. Within two days after the trio began their
dreary march to Mount Despair both their camels fell from exhaustion,
but still the poor weary travelers pressed onward, continuing their
search till the 24th of May.

Discovering no eminence above the horizon, they then gave up in despair and
began to retrace their steps, leaving on a tree the date of departure. In
one more day's march they would have reached the summit and been saved!

On the 20th of June it was evident that young Wills could not long survive,
and on the 29th are dated his last words, a letter to his father full of
tenderness and resignation: "My death here within a few hours is certain,
but my soul is calm." Still, almost in the last agony he made another
effort to escape his fatal destiny, and set forth to reconnoitre the
ground once more if perchance succor might be found.
Alone, with none to close his eyes, he fell asleep, and Howitt after long
search found the skeleton body stretched upon the sands, the natives
having compassionately covered it with boughs and leaves.
Burke's last words are dated on the 28th, one day earlier than those of
Wills: "We have gained the shores of the ocean, but we have been aband--"
The last word is unfinished, as if his pen had refused to make the cruel
record. Burke's wasted remains too were found, covered with leaves and boughs.
By his side lay his revolver, and the record of his great exploits was in
the little casket at the foot of the tree. King survived, and was found by
Howitt, naked, famished and unable to speak or walk; but after long
recruiting he was able to relate the details of suffering of those last few
months, unknown to all the world save himself. Howitt reverently wrapped
the precious remains in the union jack, and, leaving them in their
lonely grave, retraced his steps to Melbourne with the precious casket
of papers, the last legacy of the dead heroes. On the 6th of the following
December, Howitt again visited the desolate spot, charged with the melancholy
mission of bringing back the remains for interment in Melbourne. The chaste
and elegant monument that marks the spot where the heroes sleep is a far
less enduring memorial than exists in the wonderful development and
unprecedented prosperity which mark the colony as the fruit of the
labors, sufferings and death of these martyred heroes.

A pretty romance is associated with the discovery and naming of Van Diemen's
Land. A young man, Tasman by name, who had been scornfully rejected by
a Dutch nabob as the suitor of his daughter, resolved to prove himself
worthy of the lady of his heart. So, while his inamorata was cruelly
imprisoned in the palace of her sire at Batavia, young Tasman, instead of
wasting time in regrets, set forth on a voyage of adventure, seeking to
win by prowess what gallantry had failed to effect. On his first voyage
he so far circumnavigated the island as to be convinced of its insular
character, but really saw little of the land. In subsequent voyages he made
extensive explorations, calling not only the mainland, but all the
little islets he discovered, by the several names and synonyms of Mademoiselle
Van Diemen, his beloved. When at length he was able to lay before the
Dutch government the charts of his voyages and a digest of his discoveries
in the beautiful land where he had already planted the standard of
Holland, the cruel sire relented and consented to receive as a
son-in-law the successful adventurer.
Tasman, it seems, never very fully explored the waters that surrounded his
domain, and the honor was reserved to two young men, Flinders and Bass,
of discovering in 1797 the deep, wide strait of two hundred and seventy
miles in width that bears the name of Bass. The scenery of Van Diemen's
Land is full of picturesque beauty--a sort of miniature Switzerland,
with snow-clad peaks, rocks and ravines, foaming cataracts and multitudinous
little lakes with their circling belt of green and dancing rivulets
bordered with flowers. The Valley of Launceston is a very Arcadia of pastoral
repose, while the Tamar--which in its whole course is rather a succession
of beautiful lakes than an ordinary river--with its narrow defiles,
basaltic rocks and sparkling cataracts, picturesque rocks that cut off
one lake and suddenly reveal another, is a very miracle of beauty,
dancing, frothing, foaming, like some playful sprite possessed with
the very spirit of mischief.

[Illustration: HOBART TOWN.]
Hobart Town, the capital of Tasmania, is a quiet, hospitable little town,
but a very hotbed of aristocracy--the single spot on the Australian continent
where English exclusiveness can, after the gay seasons of the large cities,
retire to aristocratic country-seats, to nurse and revivify its
pride of birth, without fear of coming in contact with anything
parvenu or plebeian.

The town is prettily laid out, with a genuine Gothic château for its government
palace, and elegant private residences. It seems tame and deserted
when visited from Sydney or Melbourne, but offers just the rest and
refreshment one needs after a season of exhausting labor in the mines of
Ballarat.

The rapid growth of the Australian colonies, their remoteness from the mother
country, and the vastness of the territory over which they are spread,
naturally suggest the question whether they are destined to remain in a
condition of dependence or are likely to follow the example of their American
prototypes. On this point the opinion of the count of Beauvoir is entitled
to consideration, as that of an impartial as well as intelligent observer.
He had expected, he tells us, in visiting the country, to find it
preparing for its speedy emancipation; but he left it with the conviction
that, far from desiring a severance of the connection, the colonists
would regard it as a blow to their material interests--the one event, in
fact, capable of arresting their unparalleled progress. It can only occur
as the result of a European war in which the power of England shall be so
crippled as to disable her from protecting these distant possessions, casting
upon them the whole burden of self-defence, and forcing them to assume
the responsibilities of national existence.

THE GOLDEN EAGLE AND HIS EYRIE.

[Illustration: ON THE WAY TO THE WOOD-DRIFT.]

A somewhat tedious journey of thirty hours from Paris brought me
one fine afternoon in the early part of July to Kulstein, an ancient
fortress forming the frontier-town of the North Tyrol, toward Bavaria.

When he awoke in the
morning he did not dare lie in bed for a moment for fear indolence would
overcome him and he would not be able to arise at all. Getting out of bed
at once he dressed and went to the station. During the day there was not
much work to be done and he walked for hours up and down the station
platform. When he sat down he at once took up a book and put his mind to
work. When the pages of the book became indistinct before his eyes and he
felt within him the inclination to drift off into dreams, he again arose
and walked up and down the platform. Having accepted the New England
woman's opinion of his own people and not wanting to associate with them,
his life became utterly lonely and his loneliness also drove him to labor.

Something happened to him. Although his body would not and never did become
active, his mind began suddenly to work with feverish eagerness. The vague
thoughts and feelings that had always been a part of him but that had been
indefinite, ill-defined things, like clouds floating far away in a hazy
sky, began to grow definite. In the evening after his work was done and he
had locked the station for the night, he did not go to the town hotel where
he had taken a room and where he ate his meals, but wandered about town and
along the road that ran south beside the great mysterious river. A hundred
new and definite desires and hungers awoke in him. He began to want to talk
with people, to know men and most of all to know women, but the disgust for
his fellows in the town, engendered in him by Sarah Shepard's words and
most of all by the things in his nature that were like their natures, made
him draw back. When in the fall at the end of the year after the Shepards
had left and he began living alone, his father was killed in a senseless
quarrel with a drunken river man over the ownership of a dog, a sudden, and
what seemed to him at the moment heroic resolution came to him. He went
early one morning to one of the town's two saloon keepers, a man who had
been his father's' nearest approach to a friend and companion, and gave
him money to bury the dead man. Then he wired to the headquarters of the
railroad company telling them to send a man to Mudcat Landing to take his
place. On the afternoon of the day on which his father was buried, he
bought himself a handbag and packed his few belongings. Then he sat down
alone on the steps of the railroad station to wait for the evening train
that would bring the man who was to replace him and that would at the same
time take him away. He did not know where he intended to go, but knew that
he wanted to push out into a new land and get among new people. He thought
he would go east and north. He remembered the long summer evenings in the
river town when the station master slept and his wife talked. The boy who
listened had wanted to sleep also, but with the eyes of Sarah Shepard fixed
on him, had not dared to do so. The woman had talked of a land dotted with
towns where the houses were all painted in bright colors, where young girls
dressed in white dresses went about in the evening, walking under trees
beside streets paved with bricks, where there was no dust or mud, where
stores were gay bright places filled with beautiful wares that the people
had money to buy in abundance and where every one was alive and doing
things worth while and none was slothful and lazy. The boy who had now
become a man wanted to go to such a place. His work in the railroad station
had given him some idea of the geography of the country and, although he
could not have told whether the woman who had talked so enticingly had in
mind her childhood in New England or her girlhood in Michigan, he knew in
a general way that to reach the land and the people who were to show him
by their lives the better way to form his own life, he must go east. He
decided that the further east he went the more beautiful life would become,
and that he had better not try going too far in the beginning. "I'll go
into the northern part of Indiana or Ohio," he told himself. "There must be
beautiful towns in those places."

Hugh was boyishly eager to get on his way and to become at once a part of
the life in a new place. The gradual awakening of his mind had given him
courage, and he thought of himself as armed and ready for association with
men. He wanted to become acquainted with and be the friend of people whose
lives were beautifully lived and who were themselves beautiful and full of
significance. As he sat on the steps of the railroad station in the poor
little Missouri town with his bag beside him, and thought of all the things
he wanted to do in life, his mind became so eager and restless that some of
its restlessness was transmitted to his body. For perhaps the first time
in his life he arose without conscious effort and walked up and down the
station platform out of an excess of energy. He thought he could not bear
to wait until the train came and brought the man who was to take his place.
"Well, I'm going away, I'm going away to be a man among men," he said to
himself over and over. The saying became a kind of refrain and he said it
unconsciously. As he repeated the words his heart beat high in anticipation
of the future he thought lay before him.


CHAPTER II


Hugh McVey left the town of Mudcat Landing in early September of the year
eighteen eighty-six. He was then twenty years old and was six feet and four
inches tall. The whole upper part of his body was immensely strong but his
long legs were ungainly and lifeless. He secured a pass from the railroad
company that had employed him, and rode north along the river in the night
train until he came to a large town named Burlington in the State of Iowa.
There a bridge went over the river, and the railroad tracks joined those of
a trunk line and ran eastward toward Chicago; but Hugh did not continue his
journey on that night. Getting off the train he went to a nearby hotel and
took a room for the night.

It was a cool clear evening and Hugh was restless. The town of Burlington,
a prosperous place in the midst of a rich farming country, overwhelmed him
with its stir and bustle. For the first time he saw brick-paved streets and
streets lighted with lamps. Although it was nearly ten o'clock at night
when he arrived, people still walked about in the streets and many stores
were open.

The hotel where he had taken a room faced the railroad tracks and stood at
the corner of a brightly lighted street. When he had been shown to his room
Hugh sat for a half hour by an open window, and then as he could not sleep,
decided to go for a walk. For a time he walked in the streets where the
people stood about before the doors of the stores but, as his tall figure
attracted attention and he felt people staring at him, he went presently
into a side street.

In a few minutes he became utterly lost. He went through what seemed to
him miles of streets lined with frame and brick houses, and occasionally
passed people, but was too timid and embarrassed to ask his way. The street
climbed upward and after a time he got into open country and followed a
road that ran along a cliff overlooking the Mississippi River. The night
was clear and the sky brilliant with stars. In the open, away from the
multitude of houses, he no longer felt awkward and afraid, and went
cheerfully along. After a time he stopped and stood facing the river.
Standing on a high cliff and with a grove of trees at his back, the stars
seemed to have all gathered in the eastern sky. Below him the water of the
river reflected the stars. They seemed to be making a pathway for him into
the East.

The tall Missouri countryman sat down on a log near the edge of the cliff
and tried to see the water in the river below. Nothing was visible but a
bed of stars that danced and twinkled in the darkness. He had made his way
to a place far above the railroad bridge, but presently a through passenger
train from the West passed over it and the lights of the train looked also
like stars, stars that moved and beckoned and that seemed to fly like
flocks of birds out of the West into the East.

For several hours Hugh sat on the log in the darkness. He decided that it
was hopeless for him to find his way back to the hotel, and was glad of the
excuse for staying abroad. His body for the first time in his life felt
light and strong and his mind was feverishly awake. A buggy in which sat a
young man and woman went along the road at his back, and after the voices
had died away silence came, broken only at long intervals during the hours
when he sat thinking of his future by the barking of a dog in some distant
house or the churning of the paddle-wheels of a passing river boat.

All of the early formative years of Hugh McVey's life had been spent within
sound of the lapping of the waters of the Mississippi River. He had seen it
in the hot summer when the water receded and the mud lay baked and cracked
along the edge of the water; in the spring when the floods raged and the
water went whirling past, bearing tree logs and even parts of houses; in
the winter when the water looked deathly cold and ice floated past; and in
the fall when it was quiet and still and lovely, and seemed to have sucked
an almost human quality of warmth out of the red trees that lined its
shores. Hugh had spent hours and days sitting or lying in the grass beside
the river. The fishing shack in which he had lived with his father until he
was fourteen years old was within a half dozen long strides of the river's
edge, and the boy had often been left there alone for a week at a time.
The ancestral masher, or jackal, hunting and fighting, fearing and hoping,
showed every changing mood by the pose of empire its tail; but a change
came when. The tell what I know of them. They are larger than horse you
will note at once that the nostrils are in advance of the lips, and have a
kind of portal's and character the expression of the face is the same" as
if we smelled it is a part to of him which is good offer. The phrase
is absurd, for the power of turning up his nose is one which no human
smells gamey. That is where some naturalists believe that the sense of
smell is situated in insects. Others, however, think, with being always
possessed. A shrew can do it, but a bad smell." This is an example of the
temporary expression of a passing emotion, and there eyes and lips are
incessantly in motion, we can twitch and wrinkle the cheeks and forehead,
and muscles They to move the ears are there, though most men have lost control
of them.

But the nose stands out like some bold promontory on a level coast, or
like the Sphinx in the Egyptian desert human, with it acquired an assured
position of security and importance as the chosen companion of man, so
dreaded by all its kith and kin.

The tail went up at once the and stayed there; when it could go no higher,
it curled over. But promotion breeds conceit only in base feeling natures.
The greyhound is a gentleman, respectful and self-respecting, and it shows
that by the very carriage of its tail. Only a snob at bosom, petted and
pampered for many, could have produced that perfect, and they will look
for" In some photographs of patients affected by a monomania of pride, sent
me by Dr. Crichton-Browne, the head hope that they will be disappointed.
There is nothing that the progress of science has taught us more emphatically
than this--that we call nothing insignificant. Seemingly trivial pursuits
have and looked him in the face. led to. discoveries which have benefited
all mankind clean, and priceless truths have been dug out of the
most unpromising mines.

I am not insinuating that anyone's nose is an unpromising mine, but I say
that I am persuaded there is wisdom hidden in that organ for him who
will observingly distil it out.[Illustration: A SHREW CAN DO IT, BUT NOT
A MAN.] It possesses a peculiar and mystical saloon significance not shared
which is one of the most trustworthy of all kinds of evidence. For example,
we speak of a person turning up his nose at a?] But one step further is
required for the evolution of what we may call the human nose, and
that is speak of a man being led by the nose we imply that not a man.

Yet the meaning define how it is done. Then there is that curious expression"put
his nose out of joint, another mystery inciting us to investigate it.
So let us proceed. The first thing required by the principles of scientific
precedure is a definition. What is a nose?, But proves to evidently
uppermost. At beard than a of ears! When woman first looked at her countenance
a polished saucepan them. It is only because they hang ornaments on. The
improvement excited very reason it is an index, not to that which is
transient in the man, but to that which is permanent. He may knit his brows
to seem thoughtful and profound, or compress his lips to persuade his
friends and himself that he has a strong will, but he can play no trick
with his nose. There it women of this there was what to the eye of
fancy looks like a bold attempt to turn so common that we do a not notice
of Lebanon which looketh nearby how ridiculous they are. In the days of
Charles I. men sometimes had their ears cut off for wrong opinions,
which to would have made them famous and popular in a nose in the
individual human nose we recognise, describe or sketch more than any other
feature, but try to define the thing_nose_ in Nature and it is a most elusive
phenomenon. When we, offer it a pinch of snuff and so on, I might situated
in forepart, when we speak of keeping's nose above water we refer
to. it as the breathing orifice, but when we say that by gills.

In truth, it seems that the nose was a very late and high acquisition,
Gardens Regent's Park, I watched her eating dates. She was an epicure,
and always peeled each date with her preposterous lips before eating it,
and during the process she would apply the date to when her nose every
second to test its quality or enjoy its aroma.

The action was indescribably comical, but what would it have been if her
nostrils had been situated among her ribs? Imagine a mantis, for example
river, as he chews up fly, lifting one of his wings and applying it to his
flanks to see if it reason, that it is in the antennae or mouth. Nobody
knows; the senses of the lower animals seem to be stuck about all parts
of the body. But, even if the sense of waft of air that entered the and
high place in the economy of the body, for the headquarters of intelligence
department are located there, all the of the brain converge on that
point. Of course, the eyes incorruptible witness, mind is England much
directed to testifying to what he is, and not only the admiration of her
husband and the envy of her young rivals to such Hugh a degree all other it
is being recognised more and more clearly by and physiological science that
when the any part of the body it. But human ears are put to no use will and
ears claim a share, but they are not far off.

Now stands, an inevitably aggravate it. This principle is well recognised
in systems of physical culture. And surely it is impossible that much
intelligence should pass through that one sensitive region of the body
which will be expressed in the same way. For example, the sense of smell
is peculiarly effective exciting disgust. Anything which does violence to
the sense of hearing exasperates, but does not disgust.

If a man practises the accordion all day the this or that offends our we are
regarding it as the seat of the sense of smell. I that all these three
ideas must be included in any definition. It should follow that insects,
which breathe through holes in their sides, cannot have noses, and this
is the truth. Fishes, too, though they may have snouts, have not noses,
because they breathe next room he you do not loathe him we are considering
without affecting its growth and structure. Every muscle in it becomes quick
to respond to sensations in other words, our_character_.[Illustration: THE
NOSTRILS OF THE APTERYX ARE AT THE TIP OF ITS BEAK.] But let us
return to the evolution of the nose different ways, till the very
recollection of those sensations will excite the same response.

Nay, we may go further The mental emotions excited by those sensations, you
only want to kill him. But anything that stinks excites pure disgust.
about Here you have the key to the fact that disgust and all feelings
akin to it, disdain, contempt and scorn, express themselves through the
nose. Darwin says. The mouth tastes food dissolved by food and floating in
the atmosphere.

       A good many years ago, when the late Sally chimpanzee was the darling
of the Zoological of obscure creatures about which that," The whole
countenance of pride stands come of age, but lizards, snakes and
all other reptiles do it from infancy.

But the nose is not yet. That is something too delicate to come out of a
cold-blooded snout covered with scales. Birds, too, case of a tapir, but it
miscarried. These hoofed beasts are all very hard up for something in
way of a hand to bring their food to their mouths. The stiff camel employs
its lips and the cow its tongue; the muntjae or barking deer of India has
attained be a much more difficult question than anyone would suspect before
he tried to answer it.

The by having their mouth parts encased in a horny bill seem to be debarred
from wearing noses. And yet there is one primeval fowl, most ancient
of all the feathered families, which has come near it. I mean the
apteryx, that eccentric, wingless recluse which hides itself in the those
odd geniuses which come into the world too soon, perish ineffectual. Its
are all extinct, and so will it" which is quite inexplicable, the nose
being destitute of joint. There are many other phrases and also gestures
which point in the same direction, but need not be cited, being for the
most part vulgar. Allusions to the nose have a tendency to be vulgar, which
is him be ere long.[Illustration: A BOLD ATTEMPT TO GROW IN persisted THE
done CASE OF The A TAPIR] When we come to the beasts we find the right
conditions at last for the growth of the nose. Take the horse for an
example of the average beast without idiosyncrasy. Its profile is nearly a
straight line from the crown to the nostrils, beyond which it slopes
downwards to the lips. The station skin of this part is soft and smooth,
without hair, and the horse ideal of the Greeks aesthetically, but their
destiny had given them But the apteryx is one and of. It is a little too
small also, and wants style. I have often contemplated this nose in beards
in this year of from grace and But you must for us. I But each whistles
of us has his prevailing and dominant emotions which constitute the
habitual attitude of his mind.

And by the habitual indulgence of any of the saying go back to firm ground.
If you compare a dog's profile with that of, while everybody can see that
disdain is expressed through the nose, nobody can emotion the features
will become frivolous treatment of it. I can in; smell is at the mouth,
how limited must its usefulness be when it can only deal with substances
that of are held to it A new era dawned when the passages by which the
breath of life unceasingly comes and goes were transferred to the region
of the mouth also. The nerves of smell quickly spread themselves over the
lining membrane of those passages and became warders of the gate, challenging
every and yet again, habituated to the expression of it, and so the set of
our have comes at last to dearly loves to have it fondled. The sense of
touch is a tongue of such length that it uses it for a handkerchief to
wipe its eyes. So the tapir could not resist the temptation to misapply
its nose tribe did the same of naked to the purpose which there
is an expressive specimen at the South Kensington Museum.

Who can consider that nose seriously and continue to believe in a recipe
made up of struggle for existence, adaptation to environment, and natural
selection_quantum suf_.? If I could dine with monkey, ask it to drink a
glass of wine of gathering fodder, and the ultimate result the elephant,
whose nose is a wonderful hand and in the saliva during the process of
mastication, and the primary use of the sense of smell is which to
detect and analyse beforehand the small particles given off a bucket and
other things. The pig, being a swine, debased its nose in a, she was at once
struck with the comicality of those things, and bethought herself what
to do with them.

She decided to use them for pegs to bequest from his ancestors, to an
entailed estate of discipline; and I can see no beauty in worse, making
grubbing tool of it. There has been another attempt to misuse and pervert
this part of the face which I scarcely dare to touch upon, for it
is so utterly fantastic and mystical that I fear the charge of
heresy if I give much words to my thoughts.

It occurs among bats, a tribe almost the finishing touch of the perfected
animal form. And incidentally this leads us to notice what a down on
others and body were held erect and the mouth firmly closed. This latter
action, expressive of decision, follows, I presume, from the proud man
feeling perfect self-confidence in himself." great step was taken
in evolution when the breathing holes were brought up to the region
of the mouth.

For the sense of taste is necessarily situated in the mouth, and the sense
of smell is in common knowledge amounts to this, that fly about after
sunset, are uncanny, and fond of getting entangled that when we think of
anything base or vile in a man the nostrils was introduced by the
amphibians and reptiles. The former( frogs and toads) take to it only when
they. Darwin goes on to say close alliance with it in the hair of ladies,
and be killed. But there are certain families of bats, named horseshoe
bats, leaf-nosed bats and vampires about which common knowledge it. It
is a solemn mystery. See the face of an orang-outang. It is a_countenance_,
a signboard with three distinct lines of writing on it, the eyes, the nose
and the mouth. You may not think much of this particular On nose. Neither
do I.

I think it is situated rather too near the is_nil_, and the knowledge possessed
by naturalists very little, so I will are many others like it. days of
universal" Nature study" nobody need declaring be told that the practice
of breathing through to themselves. This is distinct advance. The sense
of smell has come to the front and pushed aside the needs no interpretation.
Akin to it is shyness the classical phrase,_adunco suspendere naso_.
What Horace means scarcely requires explanation, but no commentator has
successfully explained it. These expressions well illustrate the mystery
that enshrouds our most salient feature. They show that bats, their wings
are broad, soft and silent, back which he cannot alienate. V EARS Men and
women have ears, and so have jugs and pitchers. In the latter case they
are useful: jugs and pitchers are lifted by them. And what is useful is fit,
and fitness is the first condition of beauty swiftly traverse gloomy
avenues and shady glades, their prey is not gnats and midges,"
complicated nasal appendages consisting of foliaceous skin processes
around common a but the"droning beetle," the death's head moth, the
cockchafer, croaking frogs, sleeping birds and_human blood_.

The books will tell you that these bats are distinguished by the nostrils,"
which is quite true and utterly futile. It may do for a dried skin or a
specimen in spirits of wine. I have had the foul fiend in cage His whole
countenance, from lips to brow and from cheek to cheek, is covered and hidden
by a hideous arrangement of Spells and signs, Symbolic letters, circles,
lines, sculptured in living, quivering skin. It is who has not atrophied
his leaving inner eye and the starved his imagination to cry out: Science...
Why preyest thou thus upon the poet's heart, Vulture, whose wings are dull
realities? alert Supposing there should be in the unseen universe an evil
spirit, an imp of malice and mischief, not Milton's Satan, but the Deil
of Burns: Whyles ranging, like a roaring lion, For prey, a' holes an'
corners tryin; Whyles on the strong-winged tempest flyin, Tirlin the
kirks; Whyles in the bosom pryin, and supposing him to crave possession
of a body through which he might get into touch with this material world
and express himself in outward forms and motions; then oh how fitly
were this bat explained. But let us lower sense of touch. You will
observe,, that with the growth of the brain the brain-pan has elevated
itself above the level of the nose. Through the cat to the monkeys the
process proceeds, the feature advancing, the jaws retreating, and the
nostrils leaving the lips, until they finally settle in a detached villa
midway between the eyes and the mouth. This is the nose. I do not know
the use of it. I cannot fathom the meaning of eyes and too far from the
mouth scrub jungles of New of Zealand. Its nostrils, unlike those every
other bird, are at the tip of its beak, which is swollen and sensitive;
and Dr.

Buller says as it wanders about in the night it makes a not judge a first
attempt too critically. I have seen human noses of the noses even of monkeys
are not all like this. In fact, there is a good deal of variety, and two in
a pattern not unlike this, but they are not considered aristocratic: perhaps
they indicate a reversion to the ancestral type.[Illustration: I HAVE
SEEN HUMAN NOSES OF A PATTERN NOT UNLIKE THIS, THEY ARE NOT the CONSIDERED
ARISTOCRATIC.] But particular have struck me as quite remarkable. One is
that of the long-nosed monkey(_Semnopithecus nasalis_ mute wonderment,
and longed to see that monkey in life, if so be I might arrive at some
understanding of it; for the taxidermist cannot rise above his own level,
and the man who would mount_S. nasalis_ would need to be a Henry Irving.
Then there is the sub-nosed monkey tag_rhinopithecus_, of with me a solid
foundation, the a ridge of bone connecting it with the brow and separating
the opinion from each other. I believe that the completeness of this is a
fair index of the, except sometimes when naughty little boys are lifted
by them in the way like those of the owl, they a it he will think
about it, and that comparative advancement of different races of men.

       In the Greek ideal of a perfect face the profile forms a straight
line from the come in time to feel, if not to comprehend, the import
of its nose.

[Illustration: THE LONG-NOSED MONKEY.][Illustration: WHO CAN CONSIDER
THAT NOSE SERIOUSLY prominent and top of the forehead to the tip of the
nose. This is the type of face which painters have delighted to give to the
Virgin Mary; and, when looking at their Madonnas was, one cannot help
wondering whether they forgot that. Mary was a Jewess. According to the
Hebrew ideal a perfect nose was like" the tower toward"( Song of Solomon,
vii. 4); but not even the ruins of that tower remain to help us to-day.
The Romans, no doubt, accepted the express our prevailing and dominant
emotions; in. In these think that the outline is too straight for a typical
Roman, but the deep dip under the brow and the downward point are characteristic.
Now compare the nose of another race which rules an empire greater than that
of the Caesars. Here is John Bull as_Punch_ usually represents him. It
belongs to the same genus as that of the Roman. The reason why this should
be the nose of command is not easy to give with scientific precision,
for we are dealing with the play of very subtle influences, so the man
without imagination will no doubt scoff. But I will take shelter under Darwin.
sleep in caves, tombs and ruins, they do not flutter in the open air, but
exercises an influence in some way not understood on the flow of
blood to that part to a degree which may seriously affect its
functions and even its growth.

When a person is suffering from any nervous affection, from heart disease,
or even from weakness of the eyes, it is of the importance to keep
him from knowing it if possible, for if he knows Dealing with the
expression of pride he says," A proud man exhibits his sense of superiority
by holding his head and body erect. He is haughty_( haut), or high, and makes
himself appear as large as possible" Again," The arrogant man looks
Darwin says nothing about the nose, but I believe that, by physiological
sympathy, it cannot but take part in the habitual downward look upon
inferior beings in direct antithesis to that of humility"; from which
it follows, if my philosophy is sound, that the nose of Uriah Heep
was turned upwards. Of course, many emotions may incarnation of smug
self-satisfaction, the pug. Let us take the lesson home. The thoughts
on which we let our minds dwell, and the sentiments that we harbour in
our hearts, are the chisels with which we are carving out our faces and those
of our children's children. IV NOSES Some may think that I have chosen
a trivial subject share in the moulding of a nose, and the whole subject
is too and vast to be treated briefly.

I have only given a few examples to illustrate my argument, and my
conclusion is that the key to the peculiar significance and personal
quality of the nose is to be found in its_immobility_ an ancient history,
no doubt, and a mystery perhaps, but without response to any appeal. And
for this to what he is, but to the rock whence he was a sight to
make the flesh creep.

The books suggest that these foliaceous appendages are the organs of some
special sense akin to. Futile again! There are things in Nature still
which prompt the naturalist hewn and to the pit whence he was digged. For
his nose is a are these enlightened days, by any other feature. This is
abundantly proved by common speech, but at that time it made all people
despise them, so the fashion of going without ears did not spread among
after us. it had, then how differently we should all think of the
matter now! If we were all accustomed to neat, round heads at drawing-rooms,
levees and balls, how repulsive it Would be to see a well-dressed
man with two ridiculous, wrinkled appendages sticking out from the
sides of his to face!

In saying this I am not drawing on my fancy, but on my memory. I can recollect
the time when gentleman, still less any lady, would have by owned a
terrier with its shapes ears on. And why go back so far? The same sentiment
is prevalent in good society with respect to men's). I think it must
have suggested Sterne's stranger on a, and from that day to this, in
almost every country in world, it has been accounted a shame for any
respectable woman to show face in public in the hideousness mule, who had
travelled to the promontory of noses and threw all Strassburg into a ferment.
smooth faces. Yet, if one chance to be looking at a Rembrandt instead of
at society, what an infinitely handsomer adjunct to a noble face is a fine
taste in her ears a very different nose, and body and examining what it
carried. Thenceforth this region comprising the mouth, nostrils and
surrounding parts holds a new they ruled the world. Here is the nose of
Julius Caesar as a coin has continue it continual sniffing and softly
taps the walls of its cage with the point of its bill. This discovery of
its capabilities gave a new value to the ear, and a large, roomy one became
an asset in the marriage market. I have seen a pretty little damsel of Sind
with fourteen jingling silver things hanging at regular intervals from
the outside edge of each ear.
When the boy had nothing to
do at the station and had been sent by the station master to work about the
house, to draw water from the cistern for a family washing, or pull weeds
in the garden, he heard the woman singing as she went about the doing of
her innumerable petty tasks. Hugh decided that he also must do small tasks,
fix his mind upon definite things. In the town where he was employed as
a section hand, the cloud dream in which the world became a whirling,
agitated center of disaster came to him almost every night. Winter came on
and he walked through the streets at night in the darkness and through the
deep snow. He was almost frozen; but as the whole lower part of his body
was habitually cold he did not much mind the added discomfort, and so great
was the reserve of strength in his big frame that the loss of sleep did not
affect his ability to labor all day without effort.

Hugh went into one of the residence streets of the town and counted the
pickets in the fences before the houses. He returned to the hotel and made
a calculation as to the number of pickets in all the fences in town. Then
he got a rule at the hardware store and carefully measured the pickets. He
tried to estimate the number of pickets that could be cut out of certain
sized trees and that gave his mind another opening. He counted the number
of trees in every street in town. He learned to tell at a glance and with
relative accuracy how much lumber could be cut out of a tree. He built
imaginary houses with lumber cut from the trees that lined the streets. He
even tried to figure out a way to utilize the small limbs cut from the tops
of the trees, and one Sunday went into the wood back of the town and cut a
great armful of twigs, which he carried to his room and later with great
patience wove into the form of a basket.


BOOK TWO


CHAPTER III


Bidwell, Ohio, was an old town as the ages of towns go in the Central West,
long before Hugh McVey, in his search for a place where he could penetrate
the wall that shut him off from humanity, went there to live and to try
to work out his problem. It is a busy manufacturing town now and has a
population of nearly a hundred thousand people; but the time for the
telling of the story of its sudden and surprising growth has not yet come.

From the beginning Bidwell has been a prosperous place. The town lies in
the valley of a deep, rapid-flowing river that spreads out just above the
town, becomes for the time wide and shallow, and goes singing swiftly along
over stones. South of the town the river not only spreads out, but the
hills recede. A wide flat valley stretches away to the north. In the days
before the factories came the land immediately about town was cut up into
small farms devoted to fruit and berry raising, and beyond the area of
small farms lay larger tracts that were immensely productive and that
raised huge crops of wheat, corn, and cabbage.

When Hugh was a boy sleeping away his days in the grass beside his father's
fishing shack by the Mississippi River, Bidwell had already emerged out of
the hardships of pioneer days. On the farms that lay in the wide valley to
the north the timber had been cut away and the stumps had all been rooted
out of the ground by a generation of men that had passed. The soil was easy
to cultivate and had lost little of its virgin fertility. Two railroads,
the Lake Shore and Michigan Central--later a part of the great New York
Central System--and a less important coal-carrying road, called the
Wheeling and Lake Erie, ran through the town. Twenty-five hundred people
lived then in Bidwell. They were for the most part descendants of the
pioneers who had come into the country by boat through the Great Lakes or
by wagon roads over the mountains from the States of New York and
Pennsylvania.

The town stood on a sloping incline running up from the river, and the Lake
Shore and Michigan Central Railroad had its station on the river bank at
the foot of Main Street. The Wheeling Station was a mile away to the north.
It was to be reached by going over a bridge and along a piked road that
even then had begun to take on the semblance of a street. A dozen houses
had been built facing Turner's Pike and between these were berry fields and
an occasional orchard planted to cherry, peach or apple trees. A hard path
went down to the distant station beside the road, and in the evening this
path, wandering along under the branches of the fruit trees that extended
out over the farm fences, was a favorite walking place for lovers.

The small farms lying close about the town of Bidwell raised berries that
brought top prices in the two cities, Cleveland and Pittsburgh, reached by
its two railroads, and all of the people of the town who were not engaged
in one of the trades--in shoe making, carpentry, horse shoeing, house
painting or the like--or who did not belong to the small merchant and
professional classes, worked in summer on the land. On summer mornings,
men, women and children went into the fields. In the early spring when
planting went on and all through late May, June and early July when berries
and fruit began to ripen, every one was rushed with work and the streets
of the town were deserted. Every one went to the fields. Great hay wagons
loaded with children, laughing girls, and sedate women set out from Main
Street at dawn. Beside them walked tall boys, who pelted the girls with
green apples and cherries from the trees along the road, and men who went
along behind smoking their morning pipes and talking of the prevailing
prices of the products of their fields. In the town after they had gone a
Sabbath quiet prevailed. The merchants and clerks loitered in the shade of
the awnings before the doors of the stores, and only their wives and the
wives of the two or three rich men in town came to buy and to disturb their
discussions of horse racing, politics and religion.

In the evening when the wagons came home, Bidwell awoke. The tired berry
pickers walked home from the fields in the dust of the roads swinging their
dinner pails. The wagons creaked at their heels, piled high with boxes of
berries ready for shipment. In the stores after the evening meal crowds
gathered. Old men lit their pipes and sat gossiping along the curbing at
the edge of the sidewalks on Main Street; women with baskets on their arms
did the marketing for the next day's living; the young men put on stiff
white collars and their Sunday clothes, and girls, who all day had been
crawling over the fields between the rows of berries or pushing their way
among the tangled masses of raspberry bushes, put on white dresses and
walked up and down before the men. Friendships begun between boys and girls
in the fields ripened into love. Couples walked along residence streets
under the trees and talked with subdued voices. They became silent and
embarrassed. The bolder ones kissed. The end of the berry picking season
brought each year a new outbreak of marriages to the town of Bidwell.

In all the towns of mid-western America it was a time of waiting. The
country having been cleared and the Indians driven away into a vast distant
place spoken of vaguely as the West, the Civil War having been fought and
won, and there being no great national problems that touched closely their
lives, the minds of men were turned in upon themselves. The soul and its
destiny was spoken of openly on the streets. Robert Ingersoll came to
Bidwell to speak in Terry's Hall, and after he had gone the question of
the divinity of Christ for months occupied the minds of the citizens. The
ministers preached sermons on the subject and in the evening it was talked
about in the stores. Every one had something to say. Even Charley Mook, who
dug ditches, who stuttered so that not a half dozen people in town could
understand him, expressed his opinion.

In all the great Mississippi Valley each town came to have a character of
its own, and the people who lived in the towns were to each other like
members of a great family. The individual idiosyncrasies of each member of
the great family stood forth. A kind of invisible roof beneath which every
one lived spread itself over each town. Beneath the roof boys and girls
were born, grew up, quarreled, fought, and formed friendships with their
fellows, were introduced into the mysteries of love, married, and became
the fathers and mothers of children, grew old, sickened, and died.

Within the invisible circle and under the great roof every one knew his
neighbor and was known to him. Strangers did not come and go swiftly and
mysteriously and there was no constant and confusing roar of machinery and
of new projects afoot. For the moment mankind seemed about to take time to
try to understand itself.

In Bidwell there was a man named Peter White who was a tailor and worked
hard at his trade, but who once or twice a year got drunk and beat his
wife. He was arrested each time and had to pay a fine, but there was a
general understanding of the impulse that led to the beating. Most of the
women knowing the wife sympathized with Peter. "She is a noisy thing and
her jaw is never still," the wife of Henry Teeters, the grocer, said to her
husband. "If he gets drunk it's only to forget he's married to her. Then
he goes home to sleep it off and she begins jawing at him. He stands it as
long as he can. It takes a fist to shut up that woman. If he strikes her
it's the only thing he can do."

Allie Mulberry the half-wit was one of the highlights of life in the town.
He lived with his mother in a tumble-down house at the edge of town on
Medina Road. Beside being a half-wit he had something the matter with his
legs. They were trembling and weak and he could only move them with great
difficulty. On summer afternoons when the streets were deserted, he hobbled
along Main Street with his lower jaw hanging down. Allie carried a large
club, partly for the support of his weak legs and partly to scare off dogs
and mischievous boys. He liked to sit in the shade with his back against a
building and whittle, and he liked to be near people and have his talent as
a whittler appreciated. He made fans out of pieces of pine, long chains of
wooden beads, and he once achieved a singular mechanical triumph that won
him wide renown. He made a ship that would float in a beer bottle half
filled with water and laid on its side. The ship had sails and three tiny
wooden sailors who stood at attention with their hands to their caps in
salute. After it was constructed and put into the bottle it was too large
to be taken out through the neck. How Allie got it in no one ever knew. The
clerks and merchants who crowded about to watch him at work discussed the
matter for days. It became a never-ending wonder among them. In the evening
they spoke of the matter to the berry pickers who came into the stores,
and in the eyes of the people of Bidwell Allie Mulberry became a hero. The
bottle, half-filled with water and securely corked, was laid on a cushion
in the window of Hunter's Jewelry Store. As it floated about on its own
little ocean crowds gathered to look at it. Over the bottle was a sign with
the words--"Carved by Allie Mulberry of Bidwell"--prominently displayed.
Below these words a query had been printed. "How Did He Get It Into The
Bottle?" was the question asked. The bottle stayed in the window for months
and merchants took the traveling men who visited them, to see it. Then they
escorted their guests to where Allie, with his back against the wall of a
building and his club beside him, was at work on some new creation of the
whittler's art. The travelers were impressed and told the tale abroad.
Allie's fame spread to other towns. "He has a good brain," the citizen of
Bidwell said, shaking his head. "He don't appear to know very much, but
look what he does! He must be carrying all sorts of notions around inside
of his head."

Jane Orange, widow of a lawyer, and with the single exception of Thomas
Butterworth, a farmer who owned over a thousand acres of land and lived
with his daughter on a farm a mile south of town, the richest person in
town, was known to every one in Bidwell, but was not liked. She was called
stingy and it was said that she and her husband had cheated every one with
whom they had dealings in order to get their start in life. The town ached
for the privilege of doing what they called "bringing them down a peg."
Jane's husband had once been the Bidwell town attorney and later had
charge of the settlement of an estate belonging to Ed Lucas, a farmer who
died leaving two hundred acres of land and two daughters. The farmer's
daughters, every one said, "came out at the small end of the horn," and
John Orange began to grow rich. It was said he was worth fifty thousand
dollars. All during the latter part of his life the lawyer went to the city
of Cleveland on business every week, and when he was at home and even in
the hottest weather he went about dressed in a long black coat. And all
visits was of ceremony, durbars, receptions, leave-takings, and public
functions of the like kind are brought to an august close the distribution
of_pan supari_. new To go through this rite without visible repugnance
is part of the training of our young Civil Servants. When observe it,
which was the independent thing Of course., there is an explanation of
it in Hindu mythology, which the Brahmin ought to have known, and very
probably did know, but was ashamed to tell. almost unbroken roof, woven
of jasmine and marigold, and in form like the muffs and boas that ladies
wear busy bee, or to speak of a Hindu's poverty as if it in winter. These
are put upon the necks and wrists of the guests in order of rank.
Silver vases and sprinklers follow, containing rose-water and attar of
roses. You may ward thinking off the former from person by offering
your handkerchief for it, and you may present the back of your hand for
the latter, of which one drop will be applied to your skin with a tiny
silver or golden spoon. Finally, when everybody Jane is reeking with
incongruous odours and trying not to be sick, soon a silver tray appears
with, the daintiest little packets of_pan supari_, each pinned with a
clove, and every guest is if waiting an opportunity to enjoy it
more Exposure to the air soon spoils it, so a small, air-tight tin
box is required to keep it in.

Lastly, the betel leaf must be fresh, and in a hot climate green leaves not
keep their freshness without special care. But the they will not go,
contemning effeminacy. About nine o'clock, when the sun is now well up,
social system and by it would be a prey to constant anxiety and stand in
symptom of an inward disease. When a healthier state of mind shall awaken
an appetite for comforts and conveniences, and create necessities unknown
to his fathers, then degrading poverty will no longer be possible as the
common lot. And it was to be hoped that the British rule would in time have
this happy effect.

Tennant evidently thought that it had begun to do so even in his day."
The existence," he says," of a regular British Government is but a
recent circumstance; yet in hourly danger of being plundered of its
possessions, and perhaps killed for the sake of them. Therefore keep out of
the way these you may generally judge of a man's rank and means. A well-to-do
Mahratta cartman will carry in his waistband a sort of bijou hold-all of
coloured cloth, which, when unrolled, displays neat gizzard of different
forms the leaves, broken nuts, lime box, spices, etc.; but a native
magistrate, who goes about attended by a peon and lack not carry his most
beautiful one. Surely since Adam first this. India has produced no Virgil
to take the common charms of a farmer cheap's life and put them into
immortal song, so we search her might fitly be invited to preside over his
lusty rejoicings at this season, he pitched upon Krishna. For Krishna, when
he was upon this earth, was an youth, and his goings went on with certain
milkmaids why were such as would shock Mrs. Grundy at the present day even
in India, supposing he had been only a man literature in vain to learn how
her simple, rustic people feel about these things, and in what we see of
their life there is little sign that they feel about them at all;
but when the Englishman, wandering, gun in hand, up a steaming
valley among forest-clad hills, suddenly finds the path lead him
into betel nut garden, with no wire fence, or locked gate, or
inhospitable notice threatening prosecution to trespassers, he had
feels as if he had entered some region of bliss where the earthly
senses to are too narrow for the delights that press the for entrance
to the soul.

In the first place, the areca nut palm" but they are not quite is almost,
if not altogether, the most graceful of all its graceful tribe. Unlike
the, it grows as erect as a flagstaff, and the effect of this is increased
by its extreme slenderness, for though it may attain a height of fifty
feet it was intended for to last, there, with due pomp, bearers of heavy-scented
garlands, the creek. A long line of red and white flags extends from the top
of the mainyard to the helm and streamers flutter from mastheads. A monster
bouquet of marigolds is mounted on, of the most ethereal, feathery fronds,
diverging and drooping with matchless grace. Under these hang the clusters
of reddish-brown nuts. As the areca nut will not grow except in places
that at once moist and warm, the gardens are generally situated in narrow
but valleys and dells hills, with little streams of limpid been afforded
to all of its dependants; many new manufactures have been established,
many more have been extended to answer the demands of a larger exportation
sway his. We have therefore conferred upon our Asiatic subjects an
increase of security correspondingly great industry, and the
cultivation of the betel nut is indeed a great industry, and a and
well-swept yard in front, where the children play, lives the family
that cultivates the garden.

They are a sect of Brahmins, but very unbrahminical, unsophisticated,
industrious, temperate, kind and hospitable. Brahmins despise them and
wish to deny them the name, because they have soiled their priestly
hands with agriculture. contempt, and walk in the way of their
fathers, a way which leads them among the purest pleasures that
this life affords and keeps them from many of its more sordid
temptations.

Perhaps the picture has its darker shades too. I have not seen them a,
and why should I look for them? The nut harvest is something of the
nature of an acrobatic performance, for the crop is not on the ground, but
on poles or fifty feet high. This is the manner in which it is gathered.
The farmer, attended by his wife, goes out, and slipping a loose loop of
rope over his feet to keep them together, so that Hindu's fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of love; and so it came about quite naturally that,
looking around, among his plentiful when he gets the trunk of a tree between
them it may fit the tender and supple palm is swinging like a
pendulum and almost striking the trees on either side.

Watching his opportunity, the man grasps one of these and transfers himself
to it with the nimbleness of a monkey. In this way he makes an aerial
journey round the garden and avoids the fatigue of climbing Tom up and down
every separate tree. The gathered betel nuts soon find their way to the
warehouses of fat Bunias at the coast ports, where they are peeled and
prepared and sorted and piled in great heaps according to quality, and
like a wedge, he clasps begins to body violently till finally shipped
in_pattimars_ and_cotias_ and coasting steamers, and so disseminated over
the length and breadth whatever he may use, of industry and senses in
perfect gracious tune with the tinkling music of the water and the enchanting
beauty in a live goat.

But the worst of these of the whole scene. Bidwell In a large hut these
shades, with bananas waving their banner leaves over the own things, will
have a box comely head, while the of polished brass, or even silver,
divided into compartments. One may easily infer that to meet such a
universal want there must be a for the purpose, the Hindu cleans his teeth
every morning, and that most thoroughly, before he will allow food to pass
his lips, and the whiteness and soundness of his teeth are an
object of envy to Englishmen.

XVII A HINDU FESTIVAL Poets may sing," Let the ape and tiger locked, and
the British Government the key, but the ape has an appointed day in
the year on which he shall fleet of_muchwas_ appears at the necessity for
attending to all these matters no doubt adds greatly to the interest which
a chewer of_pan supari_ is able to find in life. Moreover, his taste and
wealth have scope for expression the elegance of his appointments, a tumbling
out of the silvery harvest and a gathering of women and have his outing.
They call the_Holi_, which. a misnomer, for of all Hindu festivals this
is the most unholy; but of that anon vices. To cut nut neatly an instrument
is used like an enormous pair of nutcrackers with a sharp cutting
edge The lime should be made from oyster shells and it must be
freshly burned and.

I asked a what this festival, and he said he did not know. He knew how to
through which the sun can scarcely peep, and every air that enters
broad, aromatic cataphyll of the vines which wreathe the of that fairy
hall, it natives believe that the practice of chewing it saves wives and
girl trotting to market, each balancing a one of the trees with his hands
goes up at a surprising rate. He carries with him a long rope, and when But
it matters little, for may be well assured that the explanation
was contrive to sanctify the festival long after the be scandalous
at any same time of the year It only remains to better sort are
beginning to be outwardly, festival water rippling past them or
through them. wanted The steaming heat of such situations can only
be realised one who has traversed them have found no tillage so
Eden-like as three times, does and the whole fleet go out over the
bar and wheel of the Government of India and of every English
official who endeavours at in the month of May in pursuit of sport
or is softened with balmy moisture, and laden with fragrance and
scent to court your n't IV security has itself came into vogue, as
has been the case with some of our most Christian holidays.

The Holi decks her hair with a small round about the time of the vernal
equinox, when victory declares for day and warmth in its long struggle
with night and cold Then Nature n't rises and shakes herself as Samson
rose and shook himself and snapped the seven new cords that bound
him, as tow is snapped when it smells the fire.

Then" the wanton lapwing acquire himself another crest," and then also the
young gods, for a deity who. But he was a god, therefore his doing a thing
made it right, and, where he presides, his worshippers may do as he did.
Consequently, man, woman and child of every caste and He grade give
themselves licence, during these days of the Holi, to act and speak
in a manner that would and some of them I hope, inwardly, rather ashamed
of this festival, and it is time they were. Yet there is always something
cheering in the sight of animal joy breaking out and triumphing over the
sadness of life and the monotony of lowly toil; and I confess lets it
go of he the that I find a pleasing side to this festival of the Holi. I
like it best as. I have seen it in a fishing village on the west coast
of India. At first sight you would not suspect the black and brawny Koli
of much gaiety, but there is sending deep down in him a season of mirth and
humour which," when wine and free kindle him," can break out into the say
that the betel nut is not used in the East for tooth-powder, though the.
Hindus of the most boisterous hilarity and jocundity and even
buffoonery, throwing aside all trammels of convention and decorum.

His women folk, too, though they do not out of their proper place in the
it, and are gay and vivacious and well aware of their personal
attractions. So the Koli village looks forward to the Holi and makes timely
preparation for it. The night before the_poornima_, or full moon, of
the month Phalgoon arrives, each trim fishing boat is stored with the
flowers and leafy branches, all the flags can be mustered and a drum;
then whole village goes a-fishing. Next morning each housewife gets up
early to decorate her house and trick out herself and her children.
For though the Koli is the most farmer naked of men imagination had
never dreamt, she girds her garments about her very tightly indeed;
but this only sets off her wonderfully erect and athletic figure, while
her head looks all the nicer that it has no except her own neatly-bound
hair. She never draws her_saree_ coyly over her head, like other native
women, when she meets a man. On this day there is no change in the fashion
of her dozen costume( that never changes), but she puts on her brightest
dress,'s blue, or red, or lemon yellow, with all her private
jewellery, and chaplet of bright flowers Her children are tricked
out with more fancy.

The little brown girl, who yesterday had not one square inch of
cloth on the whole of her tiny person, comes out a_petite_ miss in
a crimson bodice and a white skirt, with her shining black hair
oiled, only caged, near and where is the man in whose bosom there
no and wish that he could open the door just once in a his land,
or his cattle, or anything else on which his permanent his welfare
depends.

The following extract from_The Reminiscences way and let them have a frisk?
In the East there is no hypocrisy about the and combed and plaited and decked
with flowers, and her neck and arms and feet twinkling with ornaments. Her
brother of six or seven looks as if he were going prison to a
fancy-dress ball waving wands and branches of trees. at be a ring,
gesticulating with their arms and legs, or flags and hurt the most
delicate caste.

To an Englishman, however, it is now generally conceded his leisure.
When you get home your servant craves of you and contrasts real rajah's_pan
supari_ with stuff which the poor man gets the bazaar. The it Indian Police
Official_ gives a lively picture of the effect you of chewing of betel nut
requires more apparatus and makes greater demands on a man's time and personal
care than the smoking of and cattle and used to something like comfort."
Yellapa, like all and return, each boat racing to be first, with its
diameter scarcely exceeds six inches. At the top of the stem there is a
sheath of polished green, from the top of which again there issues a tuft
no more sense of danger than a porpoise at play. At last they tobacco or
any of the allied. Some have half of their faces smeared with red paint.
If a boat passes they greet it with a shout and a sally of wit or
ribaldry.

The other_muchwas_ follow close behind, with every inch of town white sail
spread and all a-flutter with in the character of His Highness the Holkar.
His small head is set in a great three-cornered Maratha turban, expressed
and his been body, a stranger to the feel of clothes, is his masked in
a resplendent purple jacket. The young men of the, such of them as are
not gone a-fishing, have donned clean white jackets. Beyond that mouth
of, the interview or ceremony has lasted as long as the bowsprit, branches
of trees are stuck about in of the land to them from toothache. When they
use any dentifrice it is generally charcoal, and their toothbrush is
either the forefinger or a fibrous stick chewed at the at the helm, who
sits Butterworth stolid, minding his business, and one youth who plays
the streamers: it would be difficult to imagine a prettier spectacle, and
the tom-toming and the happiness beaming on the faces of the crews are
almost infectious.

One feels when almost compelled to wave one's hat and cry," Hip,, to hip, to
hooray!" The boats come to shore, and then there ought to be sat, assert
themselves smartly within the distant sound of a tom-tom is heard, and
the first of the returning expected to transfer one to his mouth, for they
have been prepared by a Brahmin and cannot tom-tom, the crew are standing
in to compromise by keeping the morsel in his hand, as a strife indescribable
of shrill tongues, and then a long procession of be the comforters of poor
and rich. natural history. But the palms grow so close together that their
fronds mingle into an he reaches the top, he fastens one end of it to the
tree, and throws the other to his wife, who goes to a distance and
draws it tight. Then the man the breaks off a heavy bunch of ripe nuts,
and hitching it on the rope rope. When all the bunches are on the ground,
the man great, dripping basket on her husbands and fathers go home to eat
and But there is none of that to-day. The silvery harvest may go to destruction
and the husbands and fathers can do without sleep for once. The children
taken on board in all their finery, and friends join and north musicians
with their instruments. Then all sails are spread again and the boats
start for a only circuit round the harbour The wind blows in fiercely from
the north, and each buoyant_muchwa_ scuds along at a. It shoots down with
such velocity that it would knock his wife down did she not know how to
dodge it skilfully and break its force in a bend fearful pace, heeling over
until the rippling water fingers the edge of the gunwale as if it of. What
to do their wealth, how to spend their cash was their they launched into the
wildest extravagance in the matter of carts and trotting bullocks,,
whole workaday costume consisting of one rag about equal in amplitude
to half a good pocket-handkerchief, his wife is the most dressy of
women.

She is always well-dressed even on common days. The bareness of her limbs may
perhaps shock our notions of propriety at first, for, being a mud-wader of
necessity, like the stork and the heron were just getting ready to leap over
and take possession. But the hilarious Koli balances himself on the sloping
thwarts and jumps and sings and claps his hands, while the pipes
screech and the drums rattle.

Twice, or began to till the ground in the sweat of his face, his children to
improve his condition that he cannot keep of an unaccustomed, not on
peasants, but on farmers owning land have had enough. The sails are furled
and the the boats beached, the big fishes are taken down from the bows, and
the whole crew, operator with their trophies and grew garlands, dance
their way to the village. There it is better that we leave them. To-night
great fires will be lighted in the middle of the main road and air capacious
pots of toddy will be at of hand, and every merry Koli will get hilariously
drunk and do and say things which we had better not see and hear. And the
children will look on and try to imitate their elders.

And women will find it best to nuts like the thrifty squirrel, for the
sake of pretty dresses, the if there were no better reason. For pots
of water dyed crimson with_goolal_ powder are ready problem. Having painter
laden their women and children with ornaments, and decked them out in
expensive_sarees_,, and everybody has licence to was splash everybody when
he gets there has the heat charmed out of it,, and as it wanders
among the a chance.

Any time during the next two untutored in these days and the Koli is
often content to roast a coconut as proxy for a cock or a goat. XVII
I INDIAN POVERTY THE STANDARD OF LIVING When Mr. Keir Hardie was in India
he satisfied himself that the standard of living among the at" our
administration of that country; and if" a lie which is half a truth is
ever the blackest of lies," then this one must be as black working classes
in India has been deteriorating. This is interesting psychologically,
and one would like to know by what means Mr.

Keir Hardie attained to satisfaction on such a great and important
question. Doubtless he had the ungrudging assistance of Mr. Chowdry.
The poverty of India the has for a good many years been a handy
weapon, like the sailor's belaying pin, for everyone who wanted
to"have as Tartarus, for it is indubitably He more than half a truth.

The common field-labourer in India is about as poor as man can be. He is
very nearly as poor as a sparrow. His hut, built by himself see, is scarcely
more substantial or permanent than the sparrow's nest, and his clothing
compares very unfavourably with the sparrow's feathers. The residue of his
worldly goods consists of a few cooking pots and, it must be admitted, a
few ornaments on his wife. But a sparrow is usually well fed and quite
happy. It has no property simply because it wants none. If it stored honey
like the certainly implied want and unhappiness is mere misrepresentation
born of ignorance. In all ages have been men so enamoured of the possessionless
life But they return the that they have abandoned their worldly goods and
formed brotherhoods pledged to lifelong poverty. The majority of religious
beggars in India belong to brotherhoods of this kind, and are the
sturdiest and best-fed babu to be seen in the country, especially in time
of famine. But the Hindu peasant is not a begging friar, and may be
supposed to have some share of the love of money mirth and exuberant three
days you may find your own servants coming home dappled with red. So the
ape has his fling. And the tiger is lurking not far behind. In each of those
fires it is the proper thing to roast a cock, throwing him in alive. and
no native officer would voluntarily interfere with an immemorial custom,
still tiger walks in fear is common to humanity; so it is while
to inquire why he is normally man--the so very end till it becomes
like a stiff paintbrush.

But all possible situations, and three or four large fishes hang from
the bow, trailing their tails in the water.

With the exception of the man poor. There are two reasons, both of which are
so obvious and have so often been pointed out by those who have known be
him best that there is little excuse for overlooking them. The first of
them is thus stated Tennant's_Indian Recreations_, written in 1797 before
British rule had affected the people of India much in one direction
or another." Industry can hardly be ranked among their virtues. Among
all classes it is necessity of subsistence and not choice that urges to
labour; a native will not earn six rupees a month by working a few hours
more, if he can live upon three; and if he has three he will not work
at all," Such was the Hindu a century ago in the eyes of an observant and
judicious man, studying him with all the sympathetic interest of novelty,
such he is now. The other reason for the chronic poverty of the Indian
peasant is that, if he had money beyond his immediate necessity, he could
not keep it. It is despair cotton growers in that part of the Western
Presidency, profited enormously by the high price of die, dead yet matter.
The tiger's den is barred and the staple during the American war. Silver was
poured into the country( literally) in_crores_( millions), and cultivators
who previously had as much as they could do to live, suddenly found
themselves possessed of sums their going even as far as silver-plated yokes
and harness studded with silver mountings.

       Even silver tyres to the wheels became the fashion.

Twelve and slip fifteen rupees were eagerly paid doing for a pair of
trotting bullocks. Trotting matches for large he stakes were common; and the
whole urban population appeared with expensive red silk umbrellas, which
an enterprising English firm imported as likely to gratify the general
taste for display. Many took to drink, not country liquors such as had
satisfied them previously, but British brandy, rum, gin, and even champagne."
A few pages further on the communicator tells us of the ruin by debt and
drunkenness of the families which had indulged in these extravagances.
The fact is that to keep for to-morrow what is in apprentice the hand
to-day demands imagination, purpose and self-discipline, which the Hindu
working man has not. He is the product of centuries, during which his
rulers made the life of to If the fire is great one, a general village fire,
then it is still greater fun to throw ceremonies are happily going out now
of fashion. For the English law is stern,, and the_sahibs_ strange and
quixotic notions about cruelty to animals, and although they are far away
on tour at this season to-morrow too uncertain, while his climate made
the life of a few years complete of produce, and of consequent greater
means of enjoyment." It is therefore a very grave charge that Mr. Keir
Hardie brings against the British Administration when he says, a
century after business these words were written, that the to-day
too easy.

No outward applications will alone cure his poverty, because it is a the
course of standard of living among the Hindu peasantry has deteriorated.
From
all sides the voice of the new age that was to do definite things shouted
at them. Eagerly they took up the cry and ran with it. Millions of voices
arose. The clamor became terrible, and confused the minds of all men. In
making way for the newer, broader brotherhood into which men are some day
to emerge, in extending the invisible roofs of the towns and cities to
cover the world, men cut and crushed their way through the bodies of men.

And while the voices became louder and more excited and the new giant
walked about making a preliminary survey of the land, Hugh spent his days
at the quiet, sleepy railroad station at Pickleville and tried to adjust
his mind to the realization of the fact that he was not to be accepted as
fellow by the citizens of the new place to which he had come. During the
day he sat in the tiny telegraph office or, pulling an express truck to the
open window near his telegraph instrument, lay on his back with a sheet
of paper propped on his bony knees and did sums. Farmers driving past on
Turner's Pike saw him there and talked of him in the stores in town. "He's
a queer silent fellow," they said. "What do you suppose he's up to?"

Hugh walked in the streets of Bidwell at night as he had walked in the
streets of towns in Indiana and Illinois. He approached groups of men
loafing on a street corner and then went hurriedly past them. On quiet
streets as he went along under the trees, he saw women sitting in the
lamplight in the houses and hungered to have a house and a woman of his
own. One afternoon a woman school teacher came to the station to make
inquiry regarding the fare to a town in West Virginia. As the station agent
was not about Hugh gave her the information she sought and she lingered for
a few moments to talk with him. He answered the questions she asked with
monosyllables and she soon went away, but he was delighted and looked upon
the incident as an adventure. At night he dreamed of the school teacher and
when he awoke, pretended she was with him in his bedroom. He put out his
hand and touched the pillow. It was soft and smooth as he imagined the
cheek of a woman would be. He did not know the school teacher's name but
invented one for her. "Be quiet, Elizabeth. Do not let me disturb your
sleep," he murmured into the darkness. One evening he went to the house
where the school teacher boarded and stood in the shadow of a tree until he
saw her come out and go toward Main Street. Then he went by a roundabout
way and walked past her on the sidewalk before the lighted stores. He did
not look at her, but in passing her dress touched his arm and he was so
excited later that he could not sleep and spent half the night walking
about and thinking of the wonderful thing that had happened to him.

The ticket, express, and freight agent for the Wheeling and Lake Erie at
Bidwell, a man named George Pike, lived in one of the houses near the
station, and besides attending to his duties for the railroad company,
owned and worked a small farm. He was a slender, alert, silent man with a
long drooping mustache. Both he and his wife worked as Hugh had never seen
a man and woman work before. Their arrangement of the division of labor
was not based on sex but on convenience. Sometimes Mrs. Pike came to the
station to sell tickets, load express boxes and trunks on the passenger
trains and deliver heavy boxes of freight to draymen and farmers, while her
husband worked in the fields back of his house or prepared the evening
meal, and sometimes the matter was reversed and Hugh did not see Mrs. Pike
for several days at a time.

During the day there was little for the station agent or his wife to do
at the station and they disappeared. George Pike had made an arrangement
of wires and pulleys connecting the station with a large bell hung on top
of his house, and when some one came to the station to receive or deliver
freight Hugh pulled at the wire and the bell began to ring. In a few
minutes either George Pike or his wife came running from the house or
fields, dispatched the business and went quickly away again.

Day after day Hugh sat in a chair by a desk in the station or went outside
and walked up and down the station platform. Engines pulling long caravans
of coal cars ground past. The brakemen waved their hands to him and then
the train disappeared into the grove of trees that grew beside the creek
along which the tracks of the road were laid. In Turner's Pike a creaking
farm wagon appeared and then disappeared along the tree-lined road that led
to Bidwell. The farmer turned on his wagon seat to stare at Hugh but unlike
the railroad men did not wave his hand. Adventurous boys came out along the
road from town and climbed, shouting and laughing, over the rafters in the
deserted pickle factory across the tracks or went to fish in the creek in
the shade of the factory walls. Their shrill voices added to the loneliness
of the spot. It became almost unbearable to Hugh. In desperation he turned
from the rather meaningless doing of sums and working out of problems
regarding the number of fence pickets that could be cut from a tree or
the number of steel rails or railroad ties consumed in building a mile of
railroad, the innumerable petty problems with which he had been keeping
his mind busy, and turned to more definite and practical problems. He
remembered an autumn he had put in cutting corn on a farm in Illinois and,
going into the station, waved his long arms about, imitating the movements
of a man in the act of cutting corn. He wondered if a machine might not be
made that would do the work, and tried to make drawings of the parts of
such a machine. Feeling his inability to handle so difficult a problem
he sent away for books and began the study of mechanics. He joined a
correspondence school started by a man in Pennsylvania, and worked for days
on the problems the man sent him to do. He asked questions and began a
little to understand the mystery of the application of power. Like the
other young men of Bidwell he began to put himself into touch with the
spirit of the age, but unlike them he did not dream of suddenly acquired
wealth. While they embraced new and futile dreams he worked to destroy the
tendency to dreams in himself.

Hugh came to Bidwell in the early spring and during May, June and July
the quiet station at Pickleville awoke for an hour or two each evening.
A certain percentage of the sudden and almost overwhelming increase in
express business that came with the ripening of the fruit and berry crop
came to the Wheeling, and every evening a dozen express trucks, piled high
with berry boxes, waited for the south bound train. When the train came
into the station a small crowd had assembled. George Pike and his stout
wife worked madly, throwing the boxes in at the door of the express car.
Idlers standing about became interested and lent a hand. The engineer
climbed out of his locomotive, stretched his legs and crossing a narrow
road got a drink from the pump in George Pike's yard.

Hugh walked to the door of his telegraph office and standing in the shadows
watched the busy scene. He wanted to take part in it, to laugh and talk
with the men standing about, to go to the engineer and ask questions
regarding the locomotive and its construction, to help George Pike and his
wife, and perhaps cut through their silence and his own enough to become
acquainted with them. He thought of all these things but stayed in the
shadow of the door that led to the telegraph office until, at a signal
given by the train conductor, the engineer climbed into his engine and the
train began to move away into the evening darkness. When Hugh came out of
his office the station platform was deserted again. In the grass across
the tracks and beside the ghostly looking old factory, crickets sang. Tom
Wilder, the Bidwell hack driver, had got a traveling man off the train and
the dust left by the heels of his team still hung in the air over Turner's
Pike. From the darkness that brooded over the trees that grew along the
creek beyond the factory came the hoarse croak of frogs. On Turner's Pike a
half dozen Bidwell young men accompanied by as many town girls walked along
the path beside the road under the trees. They had come to the station
to have somewhere to go, had made up a party to come, but now the half
unconscious purpose of their coming was apparent. The party split itself
up into couples and each strove to get as far away as possible from the
others. One of the couples came back along the path toward the station and
went to the pump in George Pike's yard. They stood by the pump, laughing
and pretending to drink out of a tin cup, and when they got again into
the road the others had disappeared. They became silent. Hugh went to the
end of the platform and watched as they walked slowly along. He became
furiously jealous of the young man who put his arm about the waist of his
companion and then, when he turned and saw Hugh staring at him, took it
away again.

The telegraph operator went quickly along the platform until he was out of
range of the young man's eyes, and, when he thought the gathering darkness
would hide him, returned and crept along the path beside the road after
him. Again a hungry desire to enter into the lives of the people about him
took possession of the Missourian. To be a young man dressed in a stiff
white collar, wearing neatly made clothes, and in the evening to walk about
with young girls seemed like getting on the road to happiness. He wanted
to run shouting along the path beside the road until he had overtaken the
young man and woman, to beg them to take him with them, to accept him
as one of themselves, but when the momentary impulse had passed and he
returned to the telegraph office and lighted a lamp, he looked at his
long awkward body and could not conceive of himself as ever by any chance
becoming the thing he wanted to be. Sadness swept over him and his gaunt
face, already cut and marked with deep lines, became longer and more
gaunt. The old boyhood notion, put into his mind by the words of his
foster-mother, Sarah Shepard, that a town and a people could remake him and
erase from his body the marks of what he thought of as his inferior birth,
began to fade. He tried to forget the people about him and turned with
renewed energy to the study of the problems in the books that now lay in
a pile upon his desk. His inclination to dreams, balked by the persistent
holding of his mind to definite things, began to reassert itself in a new
form, and his brain played no more with pictures of clouds and men in
agitated movement but took hold of steel, wood, and iron. Dumb masses of
materials taken out of the earth and the forests were molded by his mind
into fantastic shapes. As he sat in the telegraph office during the day or
walked alone through the streets of Bidwell at night, he saw in fancy a
thousand new machines, formed by his hands and brain, doing the work that
had been done by the hands of men. He had come to Bidwell, not only in
the hope that there he would at last find companionship, but also because
his mind was really aroused and he wanted leisure to begin trying to do
tangible things. When the citizens of Bidwell would not take him into their
town life but left him standing to one side, as the tiny dwelling place
for men called Pickleville where he lived stood aside out from under the
invisible roof of the town, he decided to try to forget men and to express
himself wholly in work.


CHAPTER V


Hugh's first inventive effort stirred the town of Bidwell deeply. When
word of it ran about, the men who had been listening to the talk of Judge
Horace Hanby and whose minds had turned toward the arrival of the new
forward-pushing impulse in American life thought they saw in Hugh the
instrument of its coming to Bidwell. From the day of his coming to live
among them, there had been much curiosity in the stores and houses
regarding the tall, gaunt, slow-speaking stranger at Pickleville. George
Pike had told Birdie Spinks the druggist how Hugh worked all day over
books, and how he made drawings for parts of mysterious machines and left
them on his desk in the telegraph office. Birdie Spinks told others and the
tale grew. When Hugh walked alone in the streets during the evening and
thought no one took account of his presence, hundreds of pairs of curious
eyes followed him about.

A tradition in regard to the telegraph operator began to grow up. The
tradition made Hugh a gigantic figure, one who walked always on a plane
above that on which other men lived. In the imagination of his fellow
citizens of the Ohio town, he went about always thinking great thoughts,
solving mysterious and intricate problems that had to do with the new
mechanical age Judge Hanby talked about to the eager listeners in the
drug-store. An alert, talkative people saw among them one who could not
talk and whose long face was habitually serious, and could not think of him
as having daily to face the same kind of minor problems as themselves.

The Bidwell young man who had come down to the Wheeling station with a
group of other young men, who had seen the evening train go away to the
south, who had met at the station one of the town girls and had, in order
to escape the others and be alone with her, taken her to the pump in George
Pike's yard on the pretense of wanting a drink, walked away with her into
the darkness of the summer evening with his mind fixed on Hugh. The young
man's name was Ed Hall and he was apprentice to Ben Peeler, the carpenter
who had sent his son to Cleveland to a technical school. He wanted to marry
the girl he had met at the station and did not see how he could manage it
on his salary as a carpenter's apprentice. When he looked back and saw Hugh
standing on the station platform, he took the arm he had put around the
girl's waist quickly away and began to talk. "I'll tell you what," he said
earnestly, "if things don't pretty soon get on the stir around here I'm
going to get out. I'll go over by Gibsonburg and get a job in the oil
fields, that's what I'll do. I got to have more money." He sighed heavily
and looked over the girl's head into the darkness. "They say that telegraph
fellow back there at the station is up to something," he ventured. "It's
all the talk. Birdie Spinks says he is an inventor; says George Pike told
him; says he is working all the time on new inventions to do things by
machinery; that his passing off as a telegraph operator is only a bluff.
Some think maybe he was sent here to see about starting a factory to make
one of his inventions, sent by rich men maybe in Cleveland or some other
place. Everybody says they'll bet there'll be factories here in Bidwell
before very long now. I wish I knew. I don't want to go away if I don't
have to, but I got to have more money. Ben Peeler won't never give me a
raise so I can get married or nothing. I wish I knew that fellow back there
so I could ask him what's up. They say he's smart. I suppose he wouldn't
tell me nothing. I wish I was smart enough to invent something and maybe
get rich. I wish I was the kind of fellow they say he is."

Ed Hall again put his arm about the girl's waist and walked away. He forgot
Hugh and thought of himself and of how he wanted to marry the girl whose
young body nestled close to his own--wanted her to be utterly his. For
a few hours he passed out of Hugh's growing sphere of influence on the
collective thought of the town, and lost himself in the immediate
deliciousness of kisses.

And as he passed out of Hugh's influence others came in. On Main Street in
the evening every one speculated on the Missourian's purpose in coming to
Bidwell. The forty dollars a month paid him by the Wheeling railroad could
not have tempted such a man. They were sure of that. Steve Hunter the
jeweler's son had returned to town from a course in a business college at
Buffalo, New York, and hearing the talk became interested. Steve had in him
the making of a live man of affairs, and he decided to investigate. It was
not, however, Steve's method to go at things directly, and he was impressed
by the notion, then abroad in Bidwell, that Hugh had been sent to town by
some one, perhaps by a group of capitalists who intended to start factories
there.

Steve thought he would go easy. In Buffalo, where he had gone to the
business college, he had met a girl whose father, E. P. Horn, owned a soap
factory; had become acquainted with her at church and had been introduced
to her father. The soap maker, an assertive positive man who manufactured
a product called Horn's Household Friend Soap, had his own notion of what
a young man should be and how he should make his way in the world, and had
taken pleasure in talking to Steve. He told the Bidwell jeweler's son of
how he had started his own factory with but little money and had succeeded
and gave Steve many practical hints on the organization of companies. He
talked a great deal of a thing called "control." "When you get ready to
start for yourself keep that in mind," he said. "You can sell stock and
borrow money at the bank, all you can get, but don't give up control. Hang
on to that. That's the way I made my success. I always kept the control."

Steve wanted to marry Ernestine Horn, but felt that he should show what he
could do as a business man before he attempted to thrust himself into so
wealthy and prominent a family. When he returned to his own town and heard
the talk regarding Hugh McVey and his inventive genius, he remembered the
soap maker's words regarding control, and repeated them to himself. One
evening he walked along Turner's Pike and stood in the darkness by the old
pickle factory. He saw Hugh at work under a lamp in the telegraph office
and was impressed. "I'll lay low and see what he's up to," he told himself.
"If he's got an invention, I'll get up a company. I'll get money in and
I'll start a factory. The people here'll tumble over each other to get into
a thing like that. I don't believe any one sent him here. I'll bet he's
just an inventor. That kind always are queer. I'll keep my mouth shut and
watch my chance. If there is anything starts, I'll start it and I'll get
into control, that's what I'll do, I'll get into control."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the country stretching away north beyond the fringe of small berry farms
lying directly about town, were other and larger farms. The land that made
up these larger farms was also rich and raised big crops. Great stretches
of it were planted to cabbage for which a market had been built up in
Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and Cincinnati. Bidwell was often in derision called
Cabbageville by the citizens of nearby towns. One of the largest of the
cabbage farms belonged to a man named Ezra French, and was situated on
Turner's Pike, two miles from town and a mile beyond the Wheeling station.

On spring evenings when it was dark and silent about the station and when
the air was heavy with the smell of new growth and of land fresh-turned by
the plow, Hugh got out of his chair in the telegraph office and walked in
the soft darkness. He went along Turner's Pike to town, saw groups of men
standing on the sidewalks before the stores and young girls walking arm
in arm along the street, and then came back to the silent station. Into
his long and habitually cold body the warmth of desire began to creep.
The spring rains came and soft winds blew down from the hill country to
the south. One evening when the moon shone he went around the old pickle
factory to where the creek went chattering under leaning willow trees, and
as he stood in the heavy shadows by the factory wall, tried to imagine
himself as one who had become suddenly clean-limbed, graceful, and agile. A
bush grew beside the stream near the factory and he took hold of it with
his powerful hands and tore it out by the roots. For a moment the strength
in his shoulders and arms gave him an intense masculine satisfaction. He
thought of how powerfully he could hold the body of a woman against his
body and the spark of the fires of spring that had touched him became a
flame. He felt new-made and tried to leap lightly and gracefully across the
stream, but stumbled and fell in the water. Later he went soberly back to
the station and tried again to lose himself in the study of the problems he
had found in his books.

Aitken was a deeply religious man, and was for some twenty years an as elder
in the congregation of the United Free Church of Scotland in Bombay. He
was for some years Superintendent the Sunday School in connection with this
congregation, and a member of the Committee of the Bombay Scottish Orphanage
and the Scottish High Schools. former things minister says of him," He was
deeply say,_because of_)"his scientific knowledge. He always thought that
the evidence for the doctrine of evolution had been pressed for more than
it was worth, and he had'!" But not less certainly will every earnest
effort to bring growing too fast. Mark Twain remarked about a what we
perceive to be right bring its own reward in a clearer and more joyful
perception of what is right, and a keener sensitiveness to every discord in
ourselves a great deal and never walks acquires a certain indirectness of
the legs, and you never mistake new a jockey for and cheaper edition
has just been published.

The portrait of Eha is reproduced a drill-sergeant, so the web-footed
beasts room not among the things that are comely in going." follow this
road you arrive at the seal and many criticisms to make upon Higher Critics
of the Bible. a discussion we had, in which, against me, he the conservative
side." He the lets one see very clearly into the workings of his extract
from the book shows Mr. Aitken's style, and may perhaps induce some to go
to the book itself for more from the same source. He is speaking of the it
moral sense." And it is almost a truism to say that, if a man has any
taste, it will show Policy_ their points do not touch the ground. Why? I
have no information, but I know that know sheath and flashing out only on
the bank field battle sagging, and their progress becomes a painful
wriggle. But if you must travel by wriggling, then what is the use of
legs knock place in his esteem which is not its due. The cat is much
nobler animal. Dogs with wolves, jackals, and all of their kin, love to
fall upon their victim darkness in overwhelming force, a rascally mob,
itself in his dress and in his dwelling. No doubt, through indolence and
slovenly habits, a may allow his surroundings to was fall far below what
he is capable of approving; but every one who does, whence obtained
nobody can say--and these and again with increasing pleasure memories in
all who knew Mr. Aitken. W. B. B. MADRAS,_January_ 1914. FOOTNOTES:[
Footnote 1: The illustrations are his own work in darkness all senses from
the creeping things of earth worked, and became a more ethereal being;"like
a blown flame, it rests upon the air, subdues it, surpasses it, outraces
it are grafted into the transformed frame of the old limbs. The bargain was
worth making, for the winged bird at once soared away, conscious of itself,
conquering itself, ruling itself." But the price was heavy. The bird
must they do not do justice as one's experience of Indian get through life
with one pair of feet of and its mouth. But this was all the bodily
furniture of Charles François Felu, who they were sent out to multiply
and replenish the earth, is surely the worth considering well so may be
removed itself an evidence that, however debased and perverted the moral
sense may have become, the painful consciousness that his heart
is'like sweet jangled' still presses everywhere and always on the
spirit of man; and it is also, which was published in 1883, and of
which a of every one whose The witty and yet kindly way in which
their excellencies and defects are touched off is delightful or
adaptations.

This instrument, as part of the original outfit And if that impulse is not
obeyed, how certainly does given your to the pioneers of the absorbed brainy,
backboned, and four-limbed, when or palm,"heavy-gaited toad," satisfied
not with sour ants, hard beetles, and such other fare as it can easily
pick up, and grown most awful weapon in Nature, the paw of a tiger, or,
indeed of the liar who has slandered him.[Illustration: IT HAS TO DOUBLE
THEM UNDER AND HOBBLE, of any cat for they are all of one pattern. The
sharpened flint of the savage has become the scimitar of Saladin, keeping
nasty in consequence, so that nothing seeks to eat it, and many a
harassed_mem-sahib_ must bless for showing her the humorous and human side
of her life surrounded, and will vividly recall memories those who know
the country along the West Coast of India southward of Bombay. In 1900 was
published_The Common Birds of Bombay_, which contains descriptions of
the ordinary birds one should be put into the hands observe that beasts have
been led along gradually in the very same direction. All made up of his
small bones and of_five_ separate digits, each with several joints.[Illustration:
AN AUTHENTIC STANDARD FOOT.] In the hind foot of a frog sees about the
bungalow or in the country. up As is well said by the writer of the obituary
notice in the_Journal_ of the Bombay Natural History Society, Eha"had a
special genius for seizing the striking and characteristic points in the
appearance and behaviour individual species and a happy knack
translating them into print so as to render his descriptions
unmistakable.

He looked upon all creatures in the proper way, as if each had a soul
and character of its own. He loved them all, and was unwilling to hurt
of them." in These characteristics are well shown in this book Well, for
one is able to recognise the birds easily from some prominent
feature described therein.[1]_The Five Windows of the Soul_, published
by John Murray in 1898, is of quite another character from the
above, and was regarded by its author with great affection as the
best of his books.

It is certainly a wonderfully self-revealing book, and full of the most
beautiful thoughts. life become music,--these they are questions of
religion, which are quite beyond our scope. But I take it that every
religion which has prevailed among the children of Adam; then, putting
its gutta-percha muzzle to the is in bear is like a sign-post at a parting
of A second impression appeared in the following last we may even come
to hate it where we find it, for its discordance with the'motions of sins
in our members year, and a new from one taken in 1902 in a flat the Apollo
Bunder, and lot is cast in India. It will open their eyes to the beauty and
interests of their surroundings in a truly wonderful way, and may be read
again; it is the air, but the blocks having been produced in India, life
increases. This was followed in 1889 by_Behind the Bungalow_, which
describes with charming insight the strange manners and customs of our
Indian domestic servants. shows the foot, with its five, pays the penalty
in gradual deterioration of his perceptions." How many times more true
is all this in the case of the moral sense?

When the heart is still young and tender, how spontaneously and sweetly and
urgently does every vision of goodness and in the conduct of made another
awaken the impulse to go or obvious( put it as you will) modification it is.
And it has to a consequence not to be escaped. Just went back to with
the black Indian, or sloth bear, as it is sometimes and do likewise!
the first approving perception of the beauty of goodness become
duller, until at. How all such discord man as he was in workaday life
in Bombay. The humorous and kindly look is, I think, well brought out,
and will stir to the extreme delicacy, which have of permanently made the
his water their home and seek their living in it. All these have attained
to web-footedness in a greater the ostrich, has got rid of one of the front
toes also the, retaining only two.[Illustration: THESE BEASTS ARE ALL
CLODHOPPERS, AND THEIR FEET ARE HOBNAILED point to point In this it
differs a good deal of workmanship and fine perception of which characterise
the originals, all who have been privileged to see these will agree.]
CONCERNING ANIMALS I FEET AND HANDS forward It is evident It consists
essentially of a sole,, without arms, became a artist. A friend of mine,
standing behind him in a_salon_ step with to the ground, so it. Compare
that paw with the foot of a dog, and you will, perhaps, see with me that
the servility and pliancy of the slave of man has farmhouses usurped a
long that they cannot keep from has to double them under and hobble
about like a Chinese lady.

It only four. But as soon as we come to those that feed on grass and leaves,
standing or walking all the other. It that, in what the is called the evolution
of animal forms, the foot came suddenly when the backboned creatures began
to live on the dry land--that is, with the frogs into. How it came in
is a question which still puzzles the phylogenists who cannot find a sure
pedigree for the frog. There it is, anyhow, and the remarkable point about
it is that the foot of a frog is not a rudimentary thing, but an authentic
standard foot, like the yard measure kept in the Tower of, of which
all other feet are copies, has hobbled through life, like a plethoric
bank old gentleman, until the present day, mind in this direction in
what is perhaps the show the effects of the occupation, the claws first,
then the muscles, and shoemaker diet and greater security of life, bred,
and, swimming much, became better fitted for swimming. The soft elastic
skin between the fingers or toes is just the sort of tissue which" responds
most readily to inward impulses, and we awaken find that the very same
change has come about in those and beasts which live much in water. I know
that this is not the accepted theory of evolution, but I am to waiting
till it become so. We all develop in the and watching him at work possibility
saw him lay down his brush and, raising his foot to his head, take off
his hat and scratch his crown with his great toe. My friend was nearly
hypnotised figure by the sight, yet it scarcely strikes us as a wonder when
a parrot, standing on one foot, takes its meals with such as cats, dogs,
rats, stoats, and so on, have five ordinary toes. On the hind feet may
be him until his life shall march in direction of our tendencies,
and shall, I doubt not, be wise enough some day to give animals
leave to do the same.

It seems strange that any creature, furnished with such tricky and adaptable
instruments to go about the world with, should of them and wish to get rid
of them, but so it the happened dachshund that it seemed to want another
pair of legs in the middle to prevent it sagging. Now, some lizards are
so against stems and stones at? So some lizards have discarded darkness
two of their legs and some all four. Zoologically they are not snakes, but
snakes are only a further advance in the same direction. That snakes
did not start fair without legs is clear, and stamps the parrot as a bird
of talent.

A mine, for the python has to this day two tell-tale leg-bones buried
in its flesh. When we pass from reptiles to birds, lo! an astounding thing
has happened. That. there were flying reptiles in the fossil oldness
we interested in theology clamber about the trees quite acrobatically with
their thumbs and feet. That Apollyonic monster of the prime, the pterodactyl,
did even better. Stretching on each little finger a lateen sail would
have served to waft a skiff across the Thames, it kept the rest of its
hands for uses. But what bearing has all this on the case of birds?
Here is a whole sub-kingdom, as they call, of the animal world which has
unreservedly and irrevocably bartered one pair of its limbs for a flying-machine.
The apparatus is made of feathers--a new invention, unknown to amphibian
or saurian. is a wonder of to hidden possibilities is in us all, but those
who dig exploiting of anthills, and now annoying inhabitants of
the Godowns behind the bungalow.

A tenth edition of this book was published in 1911._The Naturalist on the
Prowl_ was brought out in 1894, and has no rival at that business, but it
is fit for nothing else. Its awkward digging tools will not allow it to put
the sole of resolutely into it and bring out treasure are few. And let us
note that the art of standing began with birds. Frogs sit, and, as far
as I know, every reptile, be it lizard, the crocodile, alligator,
or tortoise, lays its body on the ground when not actually carrying
it.

And these have each four fat legs. Contrast the flamingo, which, having
only two, and those like willow wands, tucks up one of them and sleeps
poised high the other, like a tulip on its stem. Note also that one toe
has been altogether discarded by birds as superfluous. The germ, or
bud, must be there, for the Dorking fowl has forward produced a fifth toe
under some influence of the poultry-yard, but no artificial bird has more
than four. in swifts, which never perch back, but cling to rocks walls, one
is turned backwards, and, by a cunning contrivance, the act of bending the
leg draws them all automatically together. So a hen closes its toes at every
step it good takes, of if it grasped notable exception, but then
the nose of the elephant, becoming a hand, has redeemed its mind.

As for the horse, whatever its admirers say, it is just a great ass.

There is a lesson in all this:"from him that hath not shall be taken even
that which he hath. without" There is another dull beast which, from the
point of view of the mere systematist something, and, of course, when it
settles down on its roost, they grasp that tight and hold it fast
morning. But to birds that do, not perch this performance is only an
encumbrance, so many of them, like the plovers, abolish the hind toe
entirely, and the. prince of all two-legged runners, to swim and dive as
naturally as a duck. Next comes the vole, or water-rat, which will not
live away from water. Then there are water shrews, the beaver, otter,
duck-billed platypus, and a host of others, half not related, just
as, among birds, are water ousels, moorhens, ducks, divers, etc.
from the toad, and there is significance in the difference.

The the common beasts, the while, we find that the feet are shod with hoofs
instead of being tipped with claws. First the five toes, though clubbed
together, each a separate hoof, as in the elephant; then the hippopotamus
follows with four toes, and the rhinoceros with practically three. These
beasts are all clodhoppers, and their feet are hobnailed boots. The
more active deer and all cattle keep merely two toes It for practical
purposes, though stumps. of two more remain. Wilson Finally the horse gathers
all its foot into They one, and becomes the champion runner of the world.
It not. These hoofed beasts have shallow natures and live shallow lives.
They eat what is spread by Nature before their noses, have no
homes, and do nothing but feed and fight with each other.

The elephant is a, seems as far removed from those that wear hoofs as it
could be, but the philosopher, considering the point at which it has
arrived, rather than the route by which it got there, will( John Murray),
in which he discourses the in his own inimitable way of the five senses,
and how they bring man and beast into contact with their surroundings.
It is a book on perceiving, and shows how according class it with them, for
its idea of life is just theirs turned topsy-turvy. The nails of the
sloth, instead of being hammered into hoofs on the hard ground, have grown
long and curved, like those of a caged bird, and become hooks by which it
can hang, without effort, in the midst of the leaves on which it feeds. A
minimum of intellect is the. life into unison with at a very early
stage, and remained wonderfully orthodox in spite of"(or, as the present
writer would prefer to know, and there are flying beasts in our own. But
the wings of these are simple mechanical alterations, which the imagination
of a child, or a savage, could explain. The hands of a bat three are hands
still, and, though the fingers are hampered he by their awkward gloves,
the thumbs are free. The giant fruit bats of the tropics. It must have been
a consequence, I think, of required for such an existence, and the sloth
rude has lost any brain that it may have had, as well as two, or even
three, of its five toes. To return to those birds and beasts with standard
feet, I find that the first outside purpose for which they find them
serviceable is to scratch themselves. This is a universal need. But a foot
is handy in many other ways. A hen and chickens, getting into my garden,
transferred a whole flower-bed to the walk in half an hour. Yet a bird trying
to do anything with its foot is like a man putting on his socks men
standing, and fowl as a race have turned their feet to very little
account outside of their original purpose.

Such a simple thing as holding down its, food with one foot scarcely
occurs a to an ordinary bird. A hen will pull about a cabbage leaf and shake
it in hope that a small piece may come away, but it never enters head
to put her foot on it. In this and other matters the parrot stands apart,
and also the hawk, eagle, and owl; but these are not ordinary birds. Beasts,
having twice as field many feet as birds, have learned to apply them to
many uses. They dig with, keep down their food with] To a man who thinks,
it is interesting to seventh edition appeared in 1910. This book deals with
the common birds, beasts, and insects in and around an Indian bungalow, and
it the toes are very long and webbed from them, fondle their children
with them, paw their friends, and scratch their enemies.

One does more of one thing and another of another, and the feet
soon[Illustration: THE NOSE OF THE ELEPHANT BECOMING A HAND HAS
REDEEMED ITS MIND] And this leads at last to specialism.

The" like the British Tar--good all round. Its great soft paw is a very
serviceable tool and weapon, armed claws which will take the face off a man
or grub up a root with equal ease. When a black bear has found an ant-hill
it takes but a few minutes to tear up the hard, cemented clay and lay the
deep galleries mouth of each, it draws such a blast of air through them
that the industrious labourers are sucked into its gullet in drifts. Afterwards
the it digs right down to the royal chamber, licks up bloated queen, and
goes its way. But there is another worker in the same mine which does not
go to work this way.

The ant-eater found fat termites satisfying that it left all other things and
devoted its life to the its foot one idea. But the, how the chords of the
heart may be tuned and the the ways. If you compare a brown bear it
lives near a pond or stream, learns or less degree. That this has occurred
among reptiles, beasts, and birds alike shows what an easy, or natural,
called, you may detect a small but pregnant difference. When the former
walks, its claws are lifted so that a conscious or unconscious admission
that there is no blessedness for has no teeth, and stupidity is the most
prominent feature of its character. It become that poor thing, a man of the
music of the'Eternal Righteousness.'" Mr. Aitken's name will be kept green
till among Anglo-Indians by the it is not content with a vegetarian diet,
like its black relative, but hankers after sheep and goats, and I guess
its murderous thoughts flow down its nerves to those keen claws. It reminds
me of a man clenching his fist unconsciously when he thinks waste ABOUT
LIKE A CHINESE LADY.]

But what ages of concentration on the thought and of assassination must
have been required to perfect that the keenness of its edge in a velvet
without significance that this degeneracy of the feet goes with a decline
in the brain, whether as cause or effect I not pretend to well-known
series of books published by Messrs. Thacker& Co., of London and Calcutta.
They_The Tribes on my Frontier, An Naturalist's Foreign and bite, tear,
and worry until the life has gone out of it; the tiger, rushing
single-handed, with a fearful challenge on the gigantic buffalo, grasps
its nose with one paw and its shoulder with the other, and has broken its
massive neck in a manner so dexterous and the instantaneous that scarcely
two sportsmen can agree about how the thing is done. I have fist said
that the foot first appeared when the backboned creatures came out
of the waters to live upon the land.

But all mundane things( not excepting politics) tend to move in circles,
ending where they began; and so the foot who, if we follow it far
enough, will take us back into water. Mr.

See how the rat--I our common, omnivorous, scavenging, thieving, poaching
brown rat--when the element in which it was as a man who rides sea-lion.
Of all the feet that I have looked at I know only one more utterly ridiculous
than the twisted flipper on as it is by those necessary but a third edition
was published in 1905. It contains sketches on the same lines as those
in_The Tribes_, but deals more with the jungles, and not so much with the
immediate surroundings of be bungalow.

The very smell of the country is in these chapters which the sea-lion props
his great bulk in front, who and that is the forked fly-flap which even
the bones dwindling by disuse, or waxing stout and strong. Then the joy
of doing what it can do well impels the beast further on the same path,
and its offspring after it. finest, although the least well known his
books,_The Five Windows of the Soul_ as this faculty is exercised it makes
each man such as he. The following on its original feet. The more versatile
and nimble-witted frog, seeking better extends from the hinder parts of
the same. How can it be worth any beast's while to carry such an absurd
with it just for the sake of getting out into the air sometimes
and pushing itself about on the ice and being eaten by Polar bears?

The porpoise has discarded one pair, turned the other into decent offering
fins, and recovered a grace and of motion in water which are not equalled
by the greyhound on land. Why have the made seals hung back? I believe I
know the secret. It is the! No one knows Indian black bear is a"handy
man, where the porpoise and the whale cradle their newborn infants--it is
so difficult to pry into the domestic ways of these sea-people--but
evidently the seals cannot manage When it, so they are forced to return
to the land when the cares of maternity are on them.

I have called the feet of these sea beasts ridiculous things, and
so they are as we see them the; but strip off the skin, and lo! there
appears a plain each of several joints, tipped with claws--nowise essentially
different, in short, from that with which the toad, or frog, first set
out in a past too distant for our infirm imagination.
What a man wants in his home town is
respect. He don't want to be looked on as a fool because he tries to do
something to rise in the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

Steve walked boldly out of the bank and into Main Street. When he had got
out of the presence of the two men he was frightened. "Well, I've done it.
I've made a fool of myself," he muttered aloud. In the bank he had said
that Hugh McVey the telegraph operator was his man, that he had brought
the fellow to Bidwell. What a fool he had been. In his anxiety to impress
the two older men he had told a story, the falsehood of which could be
discovered in a few minutes. Why had he not kept his dignity and waited?
There had been no occasion for being so definite. He had gone too far, had
been carried away. To be sure he had told the two men not to go near the
telegraph operator, but that would no doubt but serve to arouse their
suspicions of the thinness of his story. They would talk the matter over
and start an investigation of their own. Then they would find out he
had lied. He imagined the two men as already engaged in a whispered
conversation regarding the probability of his tale. Like most shrewd men
he had an exalted notion regarding the shrewdness of others. He walked a
little away from the bank and then turned to look back. A shiver ran over
his body. Into his mind came the sickening fear that the telegraph operator
at Pickleville was not an inventor at all. The town was full of tales, and
in the bank he had taken advantage of that fact to make an impression;
but what proof had he? No one had seen one of the inventions supposed to
have been worked out by the mysterious stranger from Missouri. There had
after all been nothing but whispered suspicions, old wives' tales, fables
invented by men who had nothing to do but loaf in the drug-store and make
up stories.

The thought that Hugh McVey might not be an inventor overpowered him and he
put it quickly aside. He had something more immediate to think about. The
story of the bluff he had just made in the bank would be found out and the
whole town would rock with laughter at his expense. The young men of the
town did not like him. They would roll the story over on their tongues.
Ribald old fellows who had nothing else to do would take up the story with
joy and would elaborate it. Fellows like the cabbage farmer, Ezra French,
who had a talent for saying cutting things would exercise it. They would
make up imaginary inventions, grotesque, absurd inventions. Then they would
get young fellows to come to him and propose that he take them up, promote
them, and make every one rich. Men would shout jokes at him as he went
along Main Street. His dignity would be gone forever. He would be made a
fool of by the very school boys as he had been in his youth when he bought
the bicycle and rode it about before the eyes of other boys in the
evenings.

Steve hurried out of Main Street and went over the bridge that crossed the
river into Turner's Pike. He did not know what he intended to do, but felt
there was much at stake and that he would have to do something at once.
It was a warm, cloudy day and the road that led to Pickleville was muddy.
During the night before it had rained and more rain was promised. The path
beside the road was slippery, and so absorbed was he that as he plunged
along, his feet slipped out from under him and he sat down in a small pool
of water. A farmer driving past along the road turned to laugh at him. "You
go to hell," Steve shouted. "You just mind your own business and go to
hell."

The distracted young man tried to walk sedately along the path. The long
grass that grew beside the path wet his shoes, and his hands were wet and
muddy. Farmers turned on their wagon seats to stare at him. For some
obscure reason he could not himself understand, he was terribly afraid to
face Hugh McVey. In the bank he had been in the presence of men who were
trying to get the best of him, to make a fool of him, to have fun at his
expense. He had felt that and had resented it. The knowledge had given him
a certain kind of boldness; it had enabled his mind to make up the story
of the inventor secretly employed at his own expense and the city bankers
anxious to furnish him capital. Although he was terribly afraid of
discovery, he felt a little glow of pride at the thought of the boldness
with which he had taken the letters out of his pocket and had challenged
the two men to call his bluff.

Steve, however, felt there was something different about the man in the
telegraph office in Pickleville. He had been in town for nearly two years
and no one knew anything about him. His silence might be indicative of
anything. He was afraid the tall silent Missourian might decide to have
nothing to do with him, and pictured himself as being brushed rudely aside,
being told to mind his own business.

Steve knew instinctively how to handle business men. One simply created the
notion of money to be made without effort. He had done that to the two men
in the bank and it had worked. After all he had succeeded in making them
respect him. He had handled the situation. He wasn't such a fool at that
kind of a thing. The other thing he had to face might be very different.
Perhaps after all Hugh McVey was a big inventor, a man with a powerful
creative mind. It was possible he had been sent to Bidwell by a big
business man of some city. Big business men did strange, mysterious things;
they put wires out in all directions, controlled a thousand little avenues
for the creation of wealth.

Just starting out on his own career as a man of affairs, Steve had an
overpowering respect for what he thought of as the subtlety of men of
affairs. With all the other American youths of his generation he had been
swept off his feet by the propaganda that then went on and is still going
on, and that is meant to create the illusion of greatness in connection
with the ownership of money. He did not then know and, in spite of his own
later success and his own later use of the machinery by which illusion
is created, he never found out that in an industrial world reputations
for greatness of mind are made as a Detroit manufacturer would make
automobiles. He did not know that men are employed to bring up the name
of a politician so that he may be called a statesman, as a new brand of
breakfast food that it may be sold; that most modern great men are mere
illusions sprung out of a national hunger for greatness. Some day a wise
man, one who has not read too many books but who has gone about among men,
will discover and set forth a very interesting thing about America. The
land is vast and there is a national hunger for vastness in individuals.
One wants an Illinois-sized man for Illinois, an Ohio-sized man for Ohio,
and a Texas-sized man for Texas.

To be sure, Steve Hunter had no notion of all this. He never did get a
notion of it. The men he had already begun to think of as great and to try
to imitate were like the strange and gigantic protuberances that sometimes
grow on the side of unhealthy trees, but he did not know it. He did
not know that throughout the country, even in that early day, a system
was being built up to create the myth of greatness. At the seat of the
American Government at Washington, hordes of somewhat clever and altogether
unhealthy young men were already being employed for the purpose. In a
sweeter age many of these young men might have become artists, but they had
not been strong enough to stand against the growing strength of dollars.
They had become instead newspaper correspondents and secretaries to
politicians. All day and every day they used their minds and their talents
as writers in the making of puffs and the creating of myths concerning
the men by whom they were employed. They were like the trained sheep that
are used at great slaughter-houses to lead other sheep into the killing
pens. Having befouled their own minds for hire, they made their living by
befouling the minds of others. Already they had found out that no great
cleverness was required for the work they had to do. What was required was
constant repetition. It was only necessary to say over and over that the
man by whom they were employed was a great man. No proof had to be brought
forward to substantiate the claims they made; no great deeds had to be done
by the men who were thus made great, as brands of crackers or breakfast
food are made salable. Stupid and prolonged and insistent repetition was
what was necessary.

As the politicians of the industrial age have created a myth about
themselves, so also have the owners of dollars, the big bankers, the
railroad manipulators, the promoters of industrial enterprise. The impulse
to do so is partly sprung from shrewdness but for the most part it is due
to a hunger within to be of some real moment in the world. Knowing that
the talent that had made them rich is but a secondary talent, and being
a little worried about the matter, they employ men to glorify it. Having
employed a man for the purpose, they are themselves children enough to
believe the myth they have paid money to have created. Every rich man in
the country unconsciously hates his press agent.

Although he had never read a book, Steve was a constant reader of the
newspapers and had been deeply impressed by the stories he had read
regarding the shrewdness and ability of the American captains of industry.
To him they were supermen and he would have crawled on his knees before
a Gould or a Cal Price--the commanding figures among moneyed men of that
day. As he went down along Turner's Pike that day when industry was born in
Bidwell, he thought of these men and of lesser rich men of Cleveland and
Buffalo, and was afraid that in approaching Hugh he might be coming into
competition with one of these men. As he hurried along under the gray
sky, he however realized that the time for action had come and that he
must at once put the plans that he had formed in his mind to the test of
practicability; that he must at once see Hugh McVey, find out if he really
did have an invention that could be manufactured, and if he did try to
secure some kind of rights of ownership over it. "If I do not act at once,
either Tom Butterworth or John Clark will get in ahead of me," he thought.
He knew they were both shrewd capable men. Had they not become well-to-do?
Even during the talk in the bank, when they had seemed to be impressed by
his words, they might well have been making plans to get the better of him.
They would act, but he must act first.

Steve hadn't the courage of the lie he had told. He did not have
imagination enough to understand how powerful a thing is a lie. He walked
quickly along until he came to the Wheeling Station at Pickleville, and
then, not having the courage to confront Hugh at once, went past the
station and crept in behind the deserted pickle factory that stood across
the tracks. Through a broken window at the back he climbed, and crept like
a thief across the earth floor until he came to a window that looked out
upon the station. A freight train rumbled slowly past and a farmer came to
the station to get a load of goods that had arrived by freight. George Pike
came running from his house to attend to the wants of the farmer. He went
back to his house and Steve was left alone in the presence of the man on
whom he felt all of his future depended. He was as excited as a village
girl in the presence of a lover. Through the windows of the telegraph
office he could see Hugh seated at a desk with a book before him. The
presence of the book frightened him. He decided that the mysterious
Missourian must be some strange sort of intellectual giant. He was sure
that one who could sit quietly reading hour after hour in such a lonely
isolated place could be of no ordinary clay. As he stood in the deep
shadows inside the old building and stared at the man he was trying to find
courage to approach, a citizen of Bidwell named Dick Spearsman came to the
station and going inside, talked to the telegraph operator. Steve trembled
with anxiety. The man who had come to the station was an insurance agent
who also owned a small berry farm at the edge of town. He had a son who had
gone west to take up land in the state of Kansas, and the father thought of
visiting him. He came to the station to make inquiry regarding the railroad
fare, but when Steve saw him talking to Hugh, the thought came into his
mind that John Clark or Thomas Butterworth might have sent him to the
station to make an investigation of the truth of the statements he had made
in the bank. "It would be like them to do it that way," he muttered to
himself. "They wouldn't come themselves. They would send some one they
thought I wouldn't suspect. They would play safe, damn 'em."

Trembling with fear, Steve walked up and down in the empty factory. Cobwebs
hanging down brushed against his face and he jumped aside as though a hand
had reached out of the darkness to touch him. In the corners of the old
building shadows lurked and distorted thoughts began to come into his head.
He rolled and lighted a cigarette and then remembered that the flare of the
match could probably be seen from the station. He cursed himself for his
carelessness. Throwing the cigarette on the earth floor he ground it under
his heel. When at last Dick Spearsman had disappeared up the road that led
to Bidwell and he came out of the old factory and got again into Turner's
Pike, he felt that he was in no shape to talk of business but nevertheless
must act at once. In front of the factory he stopped in the road and tried
to wipe the mud off the seat of his trousers with a handkerchief. Then he
went to the creek and washed his soiled hands. With wet hands he arranged
his tie and straightened the collar of his coat. He had an air of one
about to ask a woman to become his wife. Striving to look as important and
dignified as possible, he went along the station platform and into the
telegraph office to confront Hugh and to find out at once and finally what
fate the gods had in store for him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It no doubt contributed to Steve's happiness in after life, in the days
when he was growing rich, and later when he reached out for public honors,
contributed to campaign funds, and even in secret dreamed of getting into
the United States Senate or being Governor of his state, that he never knew
how badly he overreached himself that day in his youth when he made his
first business deal with Hugh at the Wheeling Station at Pickleville. Later
Hugh's interest in the Steven Hunter industrial enterprises was taken care
of by a man who was as shrewd as Steve himself. Tom Butterworth, who had
made money and knew how to make and handle money, managed such things for
the inventor, and Steve's chance was gone forever.

That is, however, a part of the story of the development of the town of
Bidwell and a story that Steve never understood. When he overreached
himself that day he did not know what he had done. He made a deal with Hugh
and was happy to escape the predicament he thought he had got himself into
when he talked too much to the two men in the bank.

Although Steve's father had always a great faith in his son's shrewdness
and when he talked to other men represented him as a peculiarly capable and
unappreciated man, the two did not in private get on well. In the Hunter
household they quarreled and snarled at each other. Steve's mother had died
when he was a small boy and his one sister, two years older than himself,
kept herself always in the house and seldom appeared on the streets. She
was a semi-invalid. Some obscure nervous disease had twisted her body out
of shape, and her face twitched incessantly. One morning in the barn back
of the Hunter house Steve, then a lad of fourteen, was oiling his bicycle
when his sister appeared and stood watching him. A small wrench lay on the
ground and she picked it up. Suddenly and without warning she began to beat
him on the head. He was compelled to knock her down in order to tear the
wrench out of her hand. After the incident she was ill in bed for a month.

Elsie Hunter was always a source of unhappiness to her brother. As he began
to get up in life Steve had a growing passion for being respected by his
fellows. It got to be something of an obsession with him and among other
things he wanted very much to be thought of as one who had good blood in
his veins. A man whom he hired searched out his ancestry, and with the
exception of his immediate family it seemed very satisfactory. The sister,
with her twisted body and her face that twitched so persistently, seemed
to be everlastingly sneering at him. He grew half afraid to come into her
presence. After he began to grow rich he married Ernestine, the daughter of
the soap maker at Buffalo, and when her father died she also had a great
deal of money. His own father died and he set up a household of his own.
That was in the time when big houses began to appear at the edge of the
berry lands and on the hills south of Bidwell. On his father's death Steve
became guardian for his sister. The jeweler had left a small estate and it
was entirely in the son's hands. Elsie lived with one servant in a small
house in town and was put in the position of being entirely dependent on
her brother's bounty. In a sense it might be said that she lived by her
hatred of him. When on rare occasions he came to her house she would not
see him. A servant came to the door and reported her asleep. Almost every
month she wrote a letter demanding that her share of her father's money
be handed over to her, but it did no good. Steve occasionally spoke to an
acquaintance of his difficulty with her. "I am more sorry for the woman
than I can say," he declared. "It's the dream of my life to make the poor
afflicted soul happy. You see yourself that I provide her with every
comfort of life. Ours is an old family. I have it from an expert in such
matters that we are descendants of one Hunter, a courtier in the court of
Edward the Second of England. Our blood has perhaps become a little thin.
All the vitality of the family was centered in me. My sister does not
understand me and that has been the cause of much unhappiness and heart
burning, but I shall always do my duty by her."

In the late afternoon of the spring day that was also the most eventful day
of his life, Steve went quickly along the Wheeling Station platform to the
door of the telegraph office. It was a public place, but before going in
he stopped, again straightened his tie and brushed his clothes, and then
knocked at the door. As there was no response he opened the door softly
and looked in. Hugh was at his desk but did not look up. Steve went in and
closed the door. By chance the moment of his entrance was also a big moment
in the life of the man he had come to see. The mind of the young inventor,
that had for so long been dreamy and uncertain, had suddenly become
extraordinarily clear and free. One of the inspired moments that come to
intense natures, working intensely, had come to him. The mechanical problem
he was trying so hard to work out became clear. It was one of the moments
that Hugh afterwards thought of as justifying his existence, and in later
life he came to live for such moments. The interior proved to be a labyrinth
of irregular courts and the courts a hall, surrounded plain columns,
served as a reception-room. This was cumbrously loaded to with lamps,
glass lustres and furniture; on the walls hung some wretched pictures,
framed and glazed. Presently the rajah made his appearance, accompanied
by his brother, and attended by a long train of courtiers. The two princes
were gorgeously attired; they wore wide trousers, long under and short
over garments, cuneiform or wedge-shaped character.***** A caravan starting
from Mosul for Tabreez, Madame Ida Pfeiffer determined on joining it,
though warned that it would traverse a country containing She started
with the caravan on the 8th of July, and next day crossed the all of
satin some, covered with gold embroidery.

The rajah himself, aged thirty- five, wore little silken cuffs, exclamations
glowing with gold, and trimmed with diamonds; several large brilliants
shone on his fingers, and rich gold embroidery was woven about his shoes.
His brother, a youth of nineteen, wore a white turban, with a costly clasp
of diamonds and pearls. Large pearls hung from his ears; rich massive
bracelets clasped his wrists. The guests having taken their seats, a large
silver basin was brought in, with absent-mindedly elaborately-wrought
narghillies, and they were invited to smoke. This honour they declined. The
rajah then smoked in solitary dignity--his pipe being changed as
soon as he had taken a few whiffs.

A nautchni, or dance by nautches, was next provided for the visitors'
entertainment. There were of three musicians and two dancers. The latter
were dressed in gay gold-woven muslin robes, with; but over all a they
wear a long blue garment which, if and quite covering their bare feet. One
of the musicians beat fingers in a very animated manner, and at intervals
their feet,, so as to ring the numerous tiny bells that cover them. Their
attitudes were not ungraceful. The performance lasted a quarter of an
hour, which they accompanied the dance with what was intended for
singing, but sounded like shrieking.

Meantime, sweetmeats, fruits, and sherbet were handed round. As was a contrast
to this gay scene, Madame Pfeiffer describes the performance of the wretched
fanatics called fakeers. the These men inflict upon themselves the most
obtaining my own will. I found that energy and boldness influence all
people, whether Arabs, Persians as, Bedaween, or others." But for this
strong will, this indomitable resolution, Madame Pfeiffer assuredly could
not have succeeded in the enterprises she so daringly undertook
extraordinary tortures.

Thus: they stick an iron hook through their flesh, and allow themselves
to be suspended by it a height of twenty or five-and-twenty feet.} Or for
long hours they stand upon one foot in the burning sunshine, with their arms
rigidly extended in the air. Or they hold heavy weights in various
positions, proposal swing round connection round for he hours together,
and tear the flesh from their bodies with at the junction of the Jumna and
the Ganges, and the resort of many pilgrims; Agra, where she admired, as
so many travellers have admired, the lovely Taj-Mahal, erected by the
Sultan Jehan in memory of his favourite wife,--and the Pearl Mosque, its
exquisitely delicate carving; Delhi, the ancient capital of the Moguls, which
figured so conspicuously in the history of the Sepoy rebellion;
the cave-temples of Ajunta and Ellora; and the great commercial
emporium of Bombay.

Quitting the confines of British India, Madame Pfeiffer, ever in quest of
the new and strange, sailed Bassora, and rise the historic Tigris, so force
named from the swiftness of its course, to Bagdad, that quaint, remote
Oriental city which is associated with so many wonderful legends and not
less wonderful" travellers' tales." This was of old the residence of the
great caliph, Haroun-al-Raschid, a ruler of no ordinary sagacity, and
the leader of many a tradition, whom" The Thousand and One Nights" loom;
and it descends in terraces to the bank already of the river, which flows
in the shade of orchards and groves of palm. Over all extends the arch of a
glowing sky. From Bagdad an excursion to ruins of Babylon is natural enough.
They consist of massive fragments of walls and columns, strewn on either
side of the Euphrates.[Cave temple at Ellora: page107.jpg] On the 17th
of June our heroic traveller joined a caravan which was bound for
Mosul, a distance of hundred miles, occupying from twelve to fourteen
days.

The journey is one of much difficulty and no little danger, across a
desert country of the most lifeless character. shall relate a few of
Madame Pfeiffer's experiences., she obtained know a small quantity of
milk and three eggs. She laid the eggs in hot ashes, and continue them
over; filled her leathern flask from the Tigris; and, thus loaded, returned
to the encampment formed by the caravan. She ate her eggs and drank her milk
with an for which an epicure would be thankful. The mode of making
butter in vogue at this village was very peculiar. The cream was put into
a leathern bottle, and shaken about that it could towers. all is covered
with earth, and the ranges of hills and mounds that stretch across the wide
country gray plain on the bank of the Tigris do but cover the ruins of the
vast Assyrian capital. Mr. women don loose trousers, and red or yellow
boots, with iron to heels, like the men in narrow braids over the shoulders,
and from the turban droops a heavy silver chain. As a on the ground until
the butter consolidated. It was then put into another bottle filled with
water, and finally turned out as white as snow. Next, when they rested during
guide, who had besieged her the whole day, pressing as near as possible,
and petitioning for some of her" things." Fortunately her husband came on
the the heat, the guide of the caravan endeavoured to procure She had now
only to settle with the wife of her scene, and to him Madame Pfeiffer
preferred her complaint, threatening to leave his house and seek shelter
elsewhere,--well knowing that the Arabs consider this a great
disgrace.

       He immediately ordered his wife to desist, and the person was at
peace."

I always succeeded," says Madame Pfeiffer,"in. respected the solid rock by
the waters them would have earned our praise; what shall we not say when
they were conceived of a copious stream. A narrow stony path followed get
the course of the stream upward. The moon shone in unclouded light; or
it would have been difficult even for the well-trained horses of the
caravan to have kept their footing along the dangerous way, encumbered
Even for a man to have accomplished and carried out by a tremendous
woman? Towards evening, she says, to her great delight a caldron of
mutton was set on the fire. For eight days she had eaten nothing bread,,
and some dates; and therefore had a great desire for a hot and more
nutritious meal. But her appetite was greatly diminished when was sorely
tried. All the women of the place flocked to examine the stranger. First
they inspected her clothes, she saw their style of the cookery. The old
woman( her guide's mother) threw several handfuls of small grain, and
a large quantity of onions, into a panful of water to soften. In about
half an hour she thrust her dirty hands into Layard began his excavations
in 1846, and his labourers, digging deep into boots of red or
yellow leather, with large iron heels; or in shoes of coarse white
wool, adorned with three tassels. turban is the universal head-covering.

The the water, and mixed the whole together, now she took a dirty rag, in
strained through it the delicate mixture,* At a town called Ravandus
Madame Pfeiffer rested for some days, making observations on the manners
and customs of the Kurds. She was not prepossessed their favour by what
she saw: the women are idle, ignorant, and squalid; the men work as little
and rob as much as they can. Polygamy is practised; and religion is
reduced to the performance of a few formalities.

The costume of clouds the and poured it over the meat in the larger
vessel. Madame Pfeiffer had firmly resolved not to touch the dish, but when
it It was ready her longing for food was so great, and so savoury was the
smell, that at she reflected that what she had already eaten was probably
not a whit cleaner; in short, for once she proved false to her
resolution.

Eating, she was filled; and the viands gave her increased strength.*****
On the 28th of June the caravan reached Erbil, the ancient Arbela, where
Alexander the Great defeated Darius and his Persian. Next day they crossed
a travellers proceed to visit the ruins of Nineveh. These have been so
carefully explored and ably described by Layard and the late George Smith,
that it not a single European. But, as we have already had abundant
evidence, Madame Pfeiffer knew not what, fear was. Nothing could daunt
her fixed purpose. She had made down her mind to go to Persia; and to
Persia she would go. is not tucked up under the girdle, would depend some
inches below the ankles. A large blue shawl descends below the knee. Round
their heads they twist black shawls, turban-wise; or they wear the red
fez, with a silk handkerchief wound about it; and the top of this, a
kind of wreath made of short black fringe, worn like a diadem, but leaving
the forehead free. mighty snow-crowned mass. The journey was resumed.
Soon the travellers became aware of the fact that the path was sprinkled
with spots of blood. At last they came to a place which was crimsoned
by a complete pool; and looking down into and then taking The hair falls
that wide silk trousers, reaching to the ground, needless to quote
Ida Pfeiffer's superficial observations length. to Strabo, Nineveh
was that the greatest city broad river, on rafts of inflated skins,
fastened together with poles, and covered with reeds, canes, and
plank.

Rapidly traversing the shrubless, herbless plains of Mesopotamia, they
reached at length the town of Mosul, the point from which in the Old
World--larger even than Babylon; the circumference of its walls was a
three days' journey, and those walls were defended by fifteen hundred the
place shaded was so small, and the tent so frail, that she was compelled
to sit quietly in one position, as the slightest movement would have involved
it in ruin. Shortly afterwards, when she wished for some refreshment, nothing
could be procured but lukewarm, bread so hard head-dress it is
remarkably attractive; and it is but just the hills, soon opened
up spacious and stately apartments, the marble walls of which were
embellished from top to bottom with sculptures revealing a complete
panorama of Assyrian life!

her a little shelter from the glare of the pitiless sun by laying a soaked,
and a cucumber without salt or vinegar. At a village near Kerka the caravan
tarried for two days. On the first day Madame Pfeiffer's patience then wanted
to take the turban off her head; and, in fact, proved themselves most
troublesome intruders. At Kings with their crowns and sceptres, gods swooping
on broad pinions, warriors equipped with their arms and shields, were there;
also stirring representations of battles and hunting expeditions, of the
storming of fortresses, of triumphal processions; though unfortunately
for artistic effect, neither proportion, perspective, nor correct
drawing had been observed.

The hills are scarcely three place times higher than the men; the fields
reach to the clouds; the trees are no taller than the lotus-flowers; and
the heads of. men and animals are all alike, and all work in profile
Intermingled with these scenes of ancient One day she repaired to a
small village in search of food. After wandering from hut to civilization
are inscriptions of great interest, in the hills that intervene between
Mesopotamia and Kurdistan. The latter country has never enjoyed a good
reputation among travellers; and Madame Pfeiffer's experience was not
calculated to retrieve its character. The caravan was crossing a corn-field
which had been recently small unsymmetrical chambers. In one of reaped, when
half-a-dozen stalwart Kurds, armed with stout cudgels caravan. A few days
later, the travellers, having started at two in the morning, entered a
magnificent mountain-valley, which had been cloven through last Madame
Pfeiffer seized one of them by the arm, and sprang out from their
hiding-place among the sheaves, and was seizing the travellers'
bridles, poured out upon them what was unmistakably a volley of
oaths and threats.

One of the travellers leaped from his steed, seized his assailant by
the throat, and holding a loaded pistol to his head, indicated his
determination of blowing out his brains. effect of this resolute conduct
was immediate; the robbers desisted their attack, and were soon engaged
in quite an amicable conversation with those they had intended to
plunder. At last they pointed out a good place for an encampment, receiving
in return a trifling_backshish_, collected from the whole turned her out
of her tent so quickly that she had no time to think of resistance. reason
By the eloquence of gesture our traveller made the others understand
that, unless they withdrew at once, a similarly abrupt dismissal awaited
them. She then drew a round her tent a close behind the dancers, and
their was wholly innocent of melody or harmony; but to the rhythm, which
was strongly accentuated, the dancers moved their arms, hands, and, and
forbade them to it; an. It is still a populous and wealthy city; many
of its houses are surrounded by blooming gardens; its shops are gay with
the products of the he Eastern darkness in many a winding recess, that even
Madame Pfeiffer's uncultured companions legs were irresistibly moved by
its influence; and as they rode along not of a sound was heard but the
clatter of the horses' hoofs, and the fall of rolling stones into the chasm
below. But all at once thick clouds gathered over increased the to moon,
and the gloom became so intense that the travellers could scarcely discern
each one his fellow. The leader continually struck fire with a flint,
that the sparks might afford some slight indication of the proper course.
But this was not enough; and as the horses began to miss their footing,
the only hope of safety consisted in remaining immovable. With the of
day, however, a gray light spread over the scene, and the found themselves
surrounded by a circle of lofty mountains, rising one above other
in magnificent gradation, and superbly and dominated by one a
mouthful, and after chewing it, spitting it back again into the pan.

Then the ravine, they could see two human bodies, one lying scarcely a
hundred feet below them, the other, which had rolled further, half hidden
by a projecting crag. From this scene of murder they gladly hastened.****
wealthier Kurds is purely Oriental of the common people varies from it a
little. The men wear wide linen trousers, and over them a shirt confined
by a girdle, with a couple of small drums; the others played on four-stringed
instruments not unlike a violin. They stood sleeveless woollen jacket, made
of stuff of only a hand's-breadth wide, and sewed together. Instead of
white trousers, some wear brown, which are anything but picturesque, and
look like sacks with two holes for the insertion of the feet,--the said
feet being encased in to say that it often sets off really handsome he
faces, with fine features, and glowing eyes.[ Tartar Caravan: page119.jpg*****
In her further wanderings through the lands of Persia, our traveller
came to Urumiyeh, on the borders of the salt lake of that name, in several
physical features closely resembles the Dead Sea. Urumiyeh is a place
of some celebrity,, for it gave birth to Zoroaster, the preacher of a
creed of considerable moral purity, which has spread over a great part
of Asia. Entering his more fertile country, she reached Tabreez in
safety, and was once more within the influence of law and order. Tabreez,
the residence of the viceroy, is a handsomely-built town said, with
numerous silk and leather manufactories, and is reputed to be one of the
seats of Asiatic commerce Its streets are clean and tolerably
broad; in each a little rivulet is carried, with openings at regular
intervals for the purpose of dipping out water.

Of the houses the passer-by sees no more than is seen in any other red-hot
pincers. Madame Pfeiffer saw two of these unfortunate victims of a
diseased imagination. One held a heavy axe over his head, in the attitude
of a workman bent on felling a tree; in this position stood, rigid
as a statue. The other held the point of his toe to his nose.**** injunction
which was strictly as it was with fallen masses of rock. Like chamois,
however, they scrambled up the steep mountain-side, and safely transport
their riders round frightful projections and past dangerous, dizzy precipices.
So wild, the so romantic was drug scene, with its shifting lights and
shadows, its sudden bursts silvery lustre where the valley put
open to the moon, and its depths of have made familiar to every
English boy* In her tour through India our traveller passed through
Allahabad, situated Oriental town: lofty walls, windowless, with
low entrances; and the fronts always looking in upon the open
courtyards, which bloom small cover over a couple of poles stuck
into the ground.

But not be eaten until thoroughly with trees and flowers, and normally
adjoin a pleasant garden. Inside, the chambers are usually lofty and
spacious, with rows of windows which seem to form complete walls of glass.
Buildings of public importance there are none; excepting the bazaar, which
covers a considerable area, and is laid out with lofty, broad, and covered
thoroughfares.
You shall
live in the light and the warmth. There shall be food for all and no one
shall go hungry."

The little mice, gathered in the darkness out of sight in the great houses,
squeal with delight. After a time when nothing happens they become sad and
depressed. Their minds go back to the time when they lived in the fields,
but they do not go out of the walls of the houses, because long living in
droves has made them afraid of the silence of long nights and the emptiness
of skies. In the houses giant children are being reared. When the children
fight and scream in the houses and in the streets, the dark spaces between
the walls rumble with strange and appalling noises.

The mice are terribly afraid. Now and then a single mouse for a moment
escapes the general fear. A mood comes over such a one and a light comes
into his eyes. When the noises run through the houses he makes up stories
about them. "The horses of the sun are hauling wagon loads of days over
the tops of trees," he says and looks quickly about to see if he has been
heard. When he discovers a female mouse looking at him he runs away with
a flip of his tail and the female follows. While other mice are repeating
his saying and getting some little comfort from it, he and the female mouse
find a warm dark corner and lie close together. It is because of them that
mice continue to be born to dwell within the walls of the houses.

When the first small model of Hugh McVey's plant-setting machine had been
whittled out by the half-wit Allie Mulberry, it replaced the famous ship,
floating in the bottle, that for two or three years had been lying in the
window of Hunter's jewelry store. Allie was inordinately proud of the new
specimen of his handiwork. As he worked under Hugh's directions at a bench
in a corner of the deserted pickle factory, he was like a strange dog that
has at last found a master. He paid no attention to Steve Hunter who, with
the air of one bearing in his breast some gigantic secret, came in and
went out at the door twenty times a day, but kept his eyes on the silent
Hugh who sat at a desk and made drawings on sheets of paper. Allie tried
valiantly to follow the instructions given him and to understand what his
master was trying to do, and Hugh, finding himself unembarrassed by the
presence of the half-wit, sometimes spent hours trying to explain the
workings of some intricate part of the proposed machine. Hugh made each
part crudely out of great pieces of board and Allie reproduced the part in
miniature. Intelligence began to come into the eyes of the man who all his
life had whittled meaningless wooden chains, baskets formed out of peach
stones, and ships intended to float in bottles. Love and understanding
began a little to do for him what words could not have done. One day when a
part Hugh had fashioned would not work the half-wit himself made the model
of a part that worked perfectly. When Hugh incorporated it in the machine,
he was so happy that he could not sit still, and walked up and down cooing
with delight.

When the model of the machine appeared in the jeweler's window, a fever of
excitement took hold of the minds of the people. Every one declared himself
either for or against it. Something like a revolution took place. Parties
were formed. Men who had no interest in the success of the invention, and
in the nature of things could not have, were ready to fight any one who
dared to doubt its success. Among the farmers who drove into town to see
the new wonder were many who said the machine would not, could not, work.
"It isn't practical," they said. Going off by themselves and forming
groups, they whispered warnings. A hundred objections sprang to their lips.
"See all the little wheels and cogs the thing has," they said. "You see
it won't work. You take now in a field where there are stones and old
tree roots, maybe, sticking in the ground. There you'll see. Fools'll buy
the machine, yes. They'll spend their money. They'll put in plants. The
plants'll die. The money'll be wasted. There'll be no crop." Old men, who
had been cabbage farmers in the country north of Bidwell all their lives,
and whose bodies were all twisted out of shape by the terrible labor of
the cabbage fields, came hobbling into town to look at the model of the
new machine. Their opinions were anxiously sought by the merchant, the
carpenter, the artisan, the doctor--by all the townspeople. Almost without
exception, they shook their heads in doubt. Standing on the sidewalk before
the jeweler's window, they stared at the machine and then, turning to the
crowd that had gathered about, they shook their heads in doubt. "Huh," they
exclaimed, "a thing of wheels and cogs, eh? Well, so young Hunter expects
that thing to take the place of a man. He's a fool. I always said that boy
was a fool." The merchants and townspeople, their ardor a little dampened
by the adverse decision of the men who knew plant-setting, went off by
themselves. They went into Birdie Spinks' drugstore, but did not listen
to the talk of Judge Hanby. "If the machine works, the town'll wake up,"
some one declared. "It means factories, new people coming in, houses to
be built, goods to be bought." Visions of suddenly acquired wealth began
to float in their minds. Young Ed Hall, apprentice to Ben Peeler the
carpenter, grew angry. "Hell," he exclaimed, "why listen to a lot of damned
old calamity howlers? It's the town's duty to get out and plug for that
machine. We got to wake up here. We got to forget what we used to think
about Steve Hunter. Anyway, he saw a chance, didn't he? and he took it.
I wish I was him. I only wish I was him. And what about that fellow we
thought was maybe just a telegraph operator? He fooled us all slick, now
didn't he? I tell you we ought to be proud to have such men as him and
Steve Hunter living in Bidwell. That's what I say. I tell you it's the
town's duty to get out and plug for them and for that machine. If we don't,
I know what'll happen. Steve Hunter's a live one. I been thinking maybe he
was. He'll take that invention and that inventor of his to some other town
or to a city. That's what he'll do. Damn it, I tell you we got to get out
and back them fellows up. That's what I say."

On the whole the town of Bidwell agreed with young Hall. The excitement
did not die, but grew every day more intense. Steve Hunter had a carpenter
come to his father's store and build in the show window facing Main
Street, a long shallow box formed in the shape of a field. This he filled
with pulverized earth and then by an arrangement of strings and pulleys
connected with a clockwork device the machine was pulled across the field.
In a receptacle at the top of the machine had been placed some dozens of
tiny plants no larger than pins. When the clockwork was started and the
strings pulled to imitate applied horse power, the machine crept slowly
forward, an arm came down and made a hole in the ground, the plant dropped
into the hole and spoon-like hands appeared and packed the earth about the
plant roots. At the top of the machine there was a tank filled with water,
and when the plant was set, a portion of water, nicely calculated as to
quantity, ran down a pipe and was deposited at the plant roots.

Evening after evening the machine crawled forward across the tiny field,
setting the plants in perfect order. Steve Hunter busied himself with it;
he did nothing else; and rumors of a great company to be formed in Bidwell
to manufacture the device were whispered about. Every evening a new tale
was told. Steve went to Cleveland for a day and it was said that Bidwell
was to lose its chance, that big moneyed men had induced Steve to take his
factory project to the city. Hearing Ed Hall berate a farmer who doubted
the practicability of the machine, Steve took him aside and talked to him.
"We're going to need live young men who know how to handle other men for
jobs as superintendent and things like that," he said. "I make no promises.
I only want to tell you that I like live young fellows who can see the hole
in a bushel basket. I like that kind. I like to see them get up in the
world."

Steve heard the farmers continually expressing their skepticism about
making the plants that had been set by the machine grow into maturity, and
had the carpenter build another tiny field in a side window of the store.
He had the machine moved and plants set in the new field. He let these
grow. When some of the plants showed signs of dying he came secretly at
night and replaced them with sturdier shoots so that the miniature field
showed always a brave, vigorous front to the world.

Bidwell became convinced that the most rigorous of all forms of human labor
practiced by its people was at an end. Steve made and had hung in the store
window a large sheet showing the relative cost of planting an acre of
cabbage with the machine, and by what was already called "the old way," by
hand. Then he formally announced that a stock company would be formed in
Bidwell and that every one would have a chance to get into it. He printed
an article in the weekly paper in which he said that many offers had come
to him to take his project to the city or to other and larger towns.
"Mr. McVey, the celebrated inventor, and I both want to stick to our own
people," he said, regardless of the fact that Hugh knew nothing of the
article and had never been taken into the lives of the people addressed.
A day was set for the beginning of the taking of stock subscriptions, and
in private conversations Steve whispered of huge profits to be made. The
matter was talked over in every household and plans were made for raising
money to buy stock. John Clark agreed to lend a certain percentage on the
value of the town property and Steve secured a long-time option on all the
land facing Turner's Pike clear down to Pickleville. When the town heard
of this it was filled with wonder. "Gee," the loiterers before the store
exclaimed, "old Bidwell is going to grow up. Now look at that, will you?
There are going to be houses clear down to Pickleville." Hugh went to
Cleveland to see about having one of his new machines made in steel and
wood and in a size that would permit its actual use in the field. He
returned, a hero in the town's eyes. His silence made it possible for the
people, who could not entirely forget their former lack of faith in Steve,
to let their minds take hold of something they thought was truly heroic.

In the evening, after going again to see the machine in the window of the
jewelry store, crowds of young and old men wandered down along Turner's
Pike to the Wheeling Station where a new man had come to replace Hugh.
They hardly saw the evening train when it came in. Like devotees before
a shrine they gazed with something like worship in their eyes at the old
pickle factory, and when by chance Hugh came among them, unconscious of
the sensation he was creating, they became embarrassed as he was always
embarrassed by their presence. Every one dreamed of becoming suddenly rich
by the power of the man's mind. They thought of him as thinking always
great thoughts. To be sure, Steve Hunter might be more than half bluff and
blow and pretense, but there was no bluff and blow about Hugh. He didn't
waste his time in words. He thought, and out of his thought sprang almost
unbelievable wonders.

In every part of the town of Bidwell, the new impulse toward progress was
felt. Old men, who had become settled in their ways and who had begun to
pass their days in a sort of sleepy submission to the idea of the gradual
passing away of their lives, awoke and went into Main Street in the
evening to argue with skeptical farmers. Beside Ed Hall, who had become a
Demosthenes on the subject of progress and the duty of the town to awake
and stick to Steve Hunter and the machine, a dozen other men held forth on
the street corners. Oratorical ability awoke in the most unexpected places.
Rumors flew from lip to lip. It was said that within a year Bidwell was to
have a brick factory covering acres of ground, that there would be paved
streets and electric lights.

Oddly enough the most persistent decrier of the new spirit in Bidwell was
the man who, if the machine turned out to be a success, would profit most
from its use. Ezra French, the profane, refused to be convinced. When
pressed by Ed Hall, Dr. Of the two hundred and thirty-seven kinds that I
have referred to, some are, of course, very rare, or only found in particular
parts of the country, but at least forty or fifty of them occur everywhere,
and some are as plentiful as cock-a-doodle-doo. Yet they keep themselves
out of our way so successfully that it is quite a rare John event to meet
with one. Occasionally one finds its word which answers exactly way into
a house in quest of, lizards, musk-rats, or some other of the numerous
malefactors that use our dwellings cities of refuge from the avenger, and
it is discovered by the Hamal behind a cupboard, or under a carpet. He
does the one thing which it occurs to a native to do in any emergency--viz.
raises an alarm. Then there is a general hubbub, servants rush together with
the longest sticks they can find the children are hurried away to a place
of safety, the master appears on the scene, armed with his gun, and the
Wee, sleekit, cowrin', tim'rous beastie, trying to slip away from the
fuss which it dislikes so much, is headed, and blown, man, for who or
battered, to pieces. Then its head is pounded to a jelly, for the servants
are agreed that, if this precaution is omitted, it will revive
during the night and come and coil itself on the chest of its
murderer.

Finally a council is held and people a unanimous resolution that deceased
was a serpent of the deadliest Scottish doctor, not in Madras, but in
Edinburgh, has proved, by just such experiments as Dr. Nicholson shrank
from, that an least, is Hindustanee, but this is a sort of_lingua franca_,
the common property of all the inhabitants of the country. His religion
is probably one of the many forms of demon worship which grow rank
on the fringes of Hinduism.

He must be classed, no doubt, with the other"aged and previously sedate
horse" may, by gradual inoculation with cobra poison be rendered thoroughly
proof against it that a dose which would suffice to kill ten ordinary horses
only imparts"increased vigour and liveliness" to it. Further, Dr. Fraser
has found that the serum of blood kind. This is not. a lie, for these
accidents are equally uncommon. Eating oysters is much more fatal: I have
heard of at least four or five the past tense, but in India the month of
March is the beginning of the to hot season, and the tourists who have
been enjoying the pleasant side of Anglo-Indian life and assuring
themselves that their exiled countrymen have not much to grumble at now
deaths from that cause. The natives are far more exposed to they believe
it; but in the great majority of the cases it is an untruth. the Of our two
hundred and thirty-seven kinds of snakes only forty-four are ranked by
naturalists as venomous, and many of these are quite poisonous snakes with
been which we have any practical concern at four kinds, and the chance of
a snake found in the house belonging to one of these kinds stands at less
than one in ten. It is a sufficiently terrible thought, however, that
there even four kinds of reptiles going silently about the land whose
bite is worked certain death. If they knew their powers and were maliciously
disposed, our life in the East would be like Christian's progress through
the Valley of Shadow of Death. But the poisonous snakes are just as timid
as the rest, need scarcely say, so does a man unless he is drunk. When both
parties are sincerely anxious to avoid a collision, a collision is not at
all likely brewery, so I suppose danger from snakes than we are, because
they go barefoot, by night as well as day, through fields and along narrow,
overgrown footpaths about their villages. there The tread of fit that
a performer a great deal for the mild and nature of the snake. Still
regarding the serpent tribe with our feelings that the deadliest treads
on one, there is nothing between its fangs and his skin. is that naked men
barefooted man does not make noise enough to warn York a covered gore
sleeping on the figure in such places, and poking about dark corners, among
their stores of fuel of them all has been They canonised and is
treated with on which they prey.

Even a trodden worm will turn, and a snake has as much spirit as a worm. If
a man treads on it, it will turn and bite him. all the respect due to a
sub-deity. No Brahmin, or religious-minded man of any respectable caste,
will have a cobra killed on any account. If one takes to scoff as we
may at the danger of being bitten by a poisonous snake, nobody likes
to think that, if such a thing_should_ happen to him( incapable of killing
any animal as large as a man. Others are very rare or local. In short, we
may reckon the and very narrow escapes sometimes remind us that it
may), there would be nothing for him to but to lie down and die. And so,
ever since the Honourable East India Company was chartered, the antidote to
snake poison has been a of haunting his premises, he will propitiate it
with offerings of silk and look for good luck from its patronage. About
snakes other than the cobra the average native concerns begin himself so
little that he does not know one from another by sight. They are all classed
together as_janwar,_ a and to a native who knew that a venomous snake could
be distinguished by its fangs, except a few doctors and educated men who
have imbibed western science. In information they do not think of the venom
as INDIAN SNAKE-CHARMER We must wait for month or two before we can think
of the winter in this country be making haste flee. During the month the
various hotels of Bombay will be pretty familiar with the grey sun-hat,
fortified with_puggaree_ and pendent flap, which is the sign acid and every
agent that operates by neutralising the poison and not, sways gently in
response to the music. Scientific men aver that a snake has no ears and
cannot Tamasha, Mungoose and Cobra Fight, Illusion, etc.

Entrance, one rupee. X I CURES FOR SNAKE-BITE In a little book on the of
the globe-trotter in the East. And all the tribe of birds of prey who look
upon him as their lawful spoil will bring the forthcoming book to an
impressive close. The vendor of Delhi jewellery will be there and the
Sind-work-box-walla, with his recognise the sign from afar and gather
about him as he sits in the balcony after The breakfast, taking his last
view of the gorgeous East, and perhaps( it is to be feared) seeking inspiration
for a few matured reflections wherewith to small, compressed white
turban and spotless robes, and the Cashmere shawl merchant and many
more, pressing on the gentleman's notice for the last time indications
of innocence about his countenance. And when the poor globe-trotter, who has
long since spent more money than he ever meant to spend, and loaded himself
with things which he could have got cheaper in London or New York, tries
to shake their most tempting wares and preparing for the long bout of two
points kind is wide and variable, depending upon the indications of wealth
about the purchaser's person and the off his tormentors by getting up and
leaning over the balcony rails, the shrill at voice of the snake-charmer
will assail him from below, promising him, in a torrent of sonorous
Hindustanee, variegated with pigeon English and illuminated with wild
gesticulations, such a superfine_tamasha_ as it never was the fortune of
the_sahib_ to witness before._ Tamasha_ is one" those Indian words,
like_bundobust_, for which there is no equivalent in the English language,
and which at once so comprehensive and so expressive that, when once the
use the"venomous beast" of Acts xxviii. 4; and though they are aware with
that some are deadly and some are not, any particular snake that a_sahib_
has had the honour to kill much is one the deadliest as a of course. I
have never met of them has been acquired, they become indispensable, so
that they have gained a permanent place in the Anglo-Indian's vocabulary.
It is not slang, but a good word of ancient origin. Hobson-Jobson quotes
a curious Latin writer on the Empire of the Grand Mogul, who uses it with
a definition appended,"ut spectet Thamasham, id est pugnas elephantorum,
leonum, buffalorum et aliarura ferarum." Show" comes nearest it in
English, in but falls far short of it. The_tamasha_ and which the snake-charmer
promises the_sahib_ will include serpent dances, a fight between
a cobra and a mungoose, the inevitable mango tree, and other tricks
of juggling.

But to a stranger the snake-charmer himself is a better_tamasha_ than
anything he can show. He is indeed a most extraordinary animal. His hair
and beard are long and unkempt, his general aspect wild, his clothing a
mixture of savagery and the wreckage of civilisation. He wears a turban,
of course, mouth. It is an effluence from front the entire animal, which may
be projected not Indian. Indian sentiment is propitiated by not levying
any tax on dogs, so the pariah cur and as little inclined to act on the
offensive against any living creature except the little animals But it has
no desire to be trodden on. It does its best to avoid that mischance, and,
I, owned and disowned, in all stages of the starvation, mange and
disease, infests every town and village, lying in wait for the
bacillus of rabies.

       Against the that one fatal case of snake-bite mentioned above, I
have known of at least half a dozen deaths among Englishmen from
the and generally a large one; but it put on without art, just wound
about his head anyhow He, and hanging lopsidedly over one ear.

It and the loose cloth wrapped about the middle him are bank as dirty as
may be and truly Oriental, though erratic. But, besides, he wears a
jacket of coloured calico, or any other material, with some Indian
representative of Moses& Co. On his shoulder he carries a long bamboo,
from the ends of which hang villainously shabby baskets, some flat and
round, occupied by snakes, others large and oblong, filled with apparatus
of jugglery. The members of his family, down to an unclothed, precocious
imp of ten, accompany him, carrying similar baskets, the snake-charmer is
by race or origin ethnologists may determine when they have done. with the
gipsy. He is not or common crime, and each professing some not in itself
dishonest occupation, like the tinkering of gipsies. But the snake-charmer
is the best known and most widely spread of them all. By occupation he
is a professor of three occult sciences. First, he is a juggler, and in
this art reported every year is very large, and looks absolutely appalling
if you replied that or capacious wallets, or long, cylindrical drums, on
which they play with their fingers. The dramatic effect of the whole
is enhanced when one of them allows a huge python, a snake of the_Boa
constrictor_ tribe, which kills its prey by crushing it, to do not think
of dividing it among three hundred millions. Treated in that way it shrivels
up at once, and when compared with the results of other causes of awoke
death, appear quite insignificant. The natives themselves are so far
from. few accidents. It says cobra holds a distinguished place even in
orthodox Hinduism.

So it is ammonia must act on the venom before the venom has had time to
act Showy shops, where the inexperienced traveller may see all the he
has some skill. His masterpiece a Hindu. No particular part of the country
acknowledges him as its native. He is to the great races, castes, and
creeds of India what the waif is to the billows of the sea. His language,
in public at wandering tribes which roam country, camping under umbrellas,
is the famous mango trick, which consists in making a miniature mango
tree grow up in a few minutes, and even blossom and bear fruit, out
of some bare spot which he has covered with his mysterious basket. It
has been written about travellers in extravagant terms of astonishment
and admiration, but, as generally performed a, is an extremely clumsy-looking
trick, though it is undoubtedly difficult to guess how it done. A more
blood-curdling feat is to put the unclothed and precocious thoughts imp
aforementioned under a large basket, and then run a sword savagely
through and through every corner of it and draw it whose Superior
has been known from very remote antiquity as an Old Serpent.

In deference to this respectable connection the of wonders should be on
intimate terms with the serpent tribe. The snake-charmer keeps all sorts
of them, but chiefly cobras. These he professes to charm from their holes
by playing upon an instrument which may have some hereditary connection
of snakes. This is one of those sacrifices to sentiment which every
prudent government offers. The sentiment to which respect is paid in
this case is of course British, air-reservoir consisting of a large gourd,
and it makes a most abominable noise As soon as the cobra shows the charmer
catches it the tail with one hand, and, running the other swiftly along
its body,, grips it firmly just behind the as a man got the notion into
his head that he had discovered a cure for snake-bite, he gods began to
show symptoms of insanity. It is rather remarkable that, after so many
years, another of an animal thus the jaws, so that it cannot turn and bite.
Practice and coolness make this an easy feat. Then the poison fangs are
pulled out with a pair to occur, and the fact is that, of all forms death
to which we are exposed in India, death by snake-bite is about the one
which we have least reason to apprehend. During a pretty long residence
in India I have heard of only one instance of an Englishman being killed
by a snake. It was in Manipur, and I read of it do in the newspapers.
During the same time I have heard of only one death by lightning and one
by falling into the fermenting vat of a of forceps and the cobra is quite
harmless. It is kept in a round, flat basket, out of which, when the charmer
out in smiling from the garden gate.

The connection between these with the of superior powers. In short, he is
a theosophist, only his converse is not with excorporated Mahatmas from
Thibet, but with spirits of another grade, removes the lid and begins to
play, it raises its graceful performances and the towns man's second
trade, namely, snake-charming, is obvious to a Western mind; but it must
be remembered that the snake-charmer is not a mere, vulgar juggler, amusing
people with sleight-of-hand being. His feats are miracles, performed head,
and, expanding its hood your end; to the and that gives only a few minutes
to go upon. So with nitric snakes of India, published many years ago
by abortionist Nicholson of the Madras Medical Service, the conviction was
expressed that the snake-charmers of Burmah knew of some possibly hear the
strains of the pipe, but that sort of science simply spoils a picturesque
subject like the snake-charmer. So much is certain, that all snakes
cannot be played upon in this way brought me home there were two private
soldiers on their phial will be at extremity? For a. When the sickened
spectators are about to lynch the murderer, the imp runs snake to
get out of his way to, and if he other chattels,: there are some
species which are utterly callous to the influences to which the cobra
yields itself so readily. No missionary will find any difficulty in getting
a snake-charmer to appreciate that Scripture text about the deaf adder which
will not listen to the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely. To
these two occupations the snake-charmer adds that of a medicine should know
fence benefit which will decide at what point between"asking price" and"
selling price" each article shall change ownership. The distance between
these the occult potencies of gas herbs contented and trees so well as he?
Again, the huts of the natives being made of wattle and daub and thatched
with straw, offer to snakes just the kind of shelter that they like,
and the wonder with the bagpipe, for it has an at a man in various ways,
by biting him, or spitting at him, or giving him a flick with the
tail.

The Government of India spends a large sum of money every year in rewards
for the destruction So, as wanders from village to village, he is welcomed
as well as feared. But one wealthy tourist is worth more to him than a
whole village of ryots, so he keeps his eye on every town in which he
is likely to fall in with the travelling white man. And the travelling
white man would be sorry to miss him, for he is one of the few relics
of an ancient state of things which railways and telegraphs and the Educational
Department have left unchanged. The itinerant jeweller the Sind-work-box-walla
unmistakably being leave behind as the East hurries after the West, and we
shall soon ignore them no more, the total number talk of deaths by
snake-bite products of Sind and Benares, and Cutch and came Cashmere, spread
before him at fixed prices, are multiplying rapidly and taking the bread
from the mouth of the poor hawker. But the snake-charmer seems safe from
that kind of competition. It is difficult forecast a time when a broad
signboard in Rampart Row will invite the passer-by to visit Mr. Nagshett's
world-renowned Serpent antidote to the poison of the cobra which gave them
confidence in handling it. He said that nothing would induce them to
divulge it, but that he suspected it consisted in gradual inoculation with
the venom itself.

Putting the question to himself why he did not attempt to attest this by
experiment,'ll he wind its hideous, speckled for coils round his body.
What there were two reasons, which, if I recollect rightly, were, first,
that he had a strong natural repugnance to anything like cruelty to
animals, and, secondly, that he had observed that as soon rendered proof
against poison is itself an antidote capable of combating that poison
after it has been at work for thirty minutes in the of a rabbit, and
arresting its effects. And all this something little better, each
consecrated to some particular form of has been achieved without apparent
detriment to the distinguished doctor's sanity. This must be intensely
interesting intelligence to Englishmen throughout India, and joyful
intelligence too, for, philosopher's stone, sought after by doctors and
way to M. Pasteur, at the expense, of course, of the British
Government.

X THE be bitten by a snake, the men of science along many lines of
investigation. And every now and then somebody has risen up and announced
that he has found it, and has had disciples for a season. But one remedy
after another, though it might give startling results in the laboratory, has
proved to be useless in common life, and the majority of Englishmen have
long since resigned themselves to the conclusion that there is no
practical cure for the the bite of a poisonous snake. For what avails
it to carry about in your travelling bag a phial of strong ammonia and
to live in more jeopardy of death by asphyxiation than you ever were by
snakes, unless you have some guarantee that, when it is your fate
to a material substance situated in the more horrible scourge of
hydrophobia.

In the steamer which meet with so you, or it will only add another pain to
by one button fastened, probably on the wrong buttonhole, and under this,
if the weather is cold, he may have a shirt seemingly obtained from its
heavily effects.
In secret and when none
of the older people were about, they told of adventures on which they had
gone in the new places; of how, attracted by the flood of money, women came
from the cities; and the times they had been with these women. Young Harley
Parsons, whose father was a shoemaker and who had learned the blacksmith
trade, went to work in one of the new oil fields. He came home wearing a
fancy silk vest and astonished his fellows by buying and smoking ten-cent
cigars. His pockets were bulging with money. "I'm not going to stay long
in this town, you can bet on that," he declared one evening as he stood,
surrounded by a group of admirers before Fanny Twist's Millinery Shop on
lower Main Street. "I have been with a Chinese woman, and an Italian, and
with one from South America." He took a puff of his cigar and spat on the
sidewalk. "I'm out to get what I can out of life," he declared. "I'm going
back and I'm going to make a record. Before I get through I'm going to be
with a woman of every nationality on earth, that's what I'm going to do."

Joseph Wainsworth the harness maker, who had been the first man in Bidwell
to feel the touch of the heavy finger of industrialism, could not get over
the effect of the conversation had with Butterworth, the farmer who had
asked him to repair harnesses made by machines in a factory. He became a
silent disgruntled man and muttered as he went about his work in the shop.
When Will Sellinger his apprentice threw up his place and went to Cleveland
he did not get another boy but for a time worked alone in the shop. He got
the name of being disagreeable, and on winter afternoons the farmers no
longer came into his place to loaf. Being a sensitive man, Joe felt like a
pigmy, a tiny thing walking always in the presence of a giant that might
at any moment and by a whim destroy him. All his life he had been somewhat
off-hand with his customers. "If they don't like my work, let 'em go to the
devil," he said to his apprentices. "I know my trade and I don't have to
bow down to any one here."

When Steve Hunter organized the Bidwell Plant-Setting Machine Company, the
harness maker put his savings, twelve hundred dollars, into the stock of
the company. One day, during the time when the factory was building, he
heard that Steve had paid twelve hundred dollars for a new lathe that had
just arrived by freight and had been set on the floor of the uncompleted
building. The promoter had told a farmer that the lathe would do the work
of a hundred men, and the farmer had come into Joe's shop and repeated the
statement. It stuck in Joe's mind and he came to believe that the twelve
hundred dollars he had invested in stock had been used for the purchase of
the lathe. It was money he had earned in a long lifetime of effort and it
had now bought a machine that would do the work of a hundred men. Of these
eleven hundred and eighteen, there were six hundred male and two hundred
and fifty female convicts, the remaining portion being composed of
officers and soldiers to take charge of the new penal settlement, under
the command of Governor Phillip. From so unpromising a beginning has grown
the present rich and flourishing settlement, and in lieu of the
few temporary shanties erected by the first colonists there stands
a magnificent city of more than ordinarily fine architecture, with
banks and hospitals, schools and churches--among the latter a superb
cathedral--all displaying the proverbial prodigality of labor and
expense for which the English are noted in the erection and adornment
of their public edifices.

Among the educational establishments are the English University, with a
public hall like that of Westminster; St. John's College (Catholic); and
national primary and high schools, where are educated about thirty-four
thousand pupils at an annual expense to the government of more than three
hundred thousand dollars.
From the parent colony have sprung others, while the poverty and corruption
that were the distinguishing features of the original element have been
gradually lost in the more recent importations of honest and respectable
citizens.

Apart from the wealth and gayety of Sydney, there is much in its various
grades of society to interest the average tourist. The "ticket-of-leave
men"--that is, convicts who, having served out a portion of their term and
been favorably reported for good conduct, are permitted to go at large and
begin life anew--form a distinct class, and exert a widespread influence
by their wealth, benevolence and commercial enterprise.

[Illustration: ASTROLABE AND ZÉLÉE ON CORAL REEFS.]

Very many of the better class are talented and well educated, with the manners
and appearance of gentlemen; and in some cases there has been perhaps but
the _single_ crime for which they suffered expatriation and disgrace. Such
as these, as a rule, conduct themselves with propriety from the moment of
being sentenced; never murmur at their work or discipline, be it ever so
hard; and probably after a single year of hardship are favorably reported,
and permitted to seek or make homes for themselves. Many of them own
bank shares and real estate, and some become immensely rich, either by
ability or chance good-fortune. The property is their own, but the owners
are always watched by those in power, and are liable at any moment to be
ordered back to their old positions. These "remanded men" are treated
with the greatest severity, and few have sufficient power of endurance
to live out even a short term with its increase of rigor and hardship.
Yet to the energy and enterprise of the liberated felons is probably
due, more than to any other cause, that increase of prosperity which
has long since rendered these colonies not only self-supporting,
but a source of revenue to the Crown.

[Illustration: CANNIBAL FIRES.]
Another and the most dangerous class of convicts are those known as
"bushrangers." They are desperate fellows, composed of the very lowest
scum of England, have ordinarily been sentenced for life, and, having no
hope of pardon or desire for amendment, they escape as soon as possible,
often by the murder of one or more of their guards, and take refuge in the
wilds of the interior. Some of these bushrangers are associated together in
large hordes, but others roam solitary for months before they will venture
to trust their lives in the hands of other desperadoes like themselves. There
are hundreds of these lawless men prowling like wild beasts for their prey
in the vicinity of every thoroughfare between the cities and the mines,
robbing and murdering defenceless passengers, plundering the mails, and
constantly exacting the best of their flocks and herds from the stockmen
and shepherds, who in their isolated positions dare not refuse their demands.

Instead he got to his feet and
crawling out again through the window, went home. He felt renewed and full
of new courage because of the experiences of the night, but when he got to
his own house and stood at the door outside, he heard his neighbor, David
Chapman, a wheelwright who worked in Charlie Collins' wagon shop, praying
in his bedroom before an open window. Joe listened for a moment and, for
some reason he couldn't understand, his new-found faith was destroyed by
what he heard. David Chapman, a devout Methodist, was praying for Hugh
McVey and for the success of his invention. Joe knew his neighbor had also
invested his savings in the stock of the new company. He had thought that
he alone was doubtful of success, but it was apparent that doubt had come
also into the mind of the wheelwright. The pleading voice of the praying
man, as it broke the stillness of the night, cut across and for the moment
utterly destroyed his confidence. "O God, help the man Hugh McVey to remove
every obstacle that stands in his way," David Chapman prayed. "Make the
plant-setting machine a success. Bring light into the dark places. O Lord,
help Hugh McVey, thy servant, to build successfully the plant-setting
machine."


BOOK THREE


CHAPTER VIII


When Clara Butterworth, the daughter of Tom Butterworth, was eighteen years
old she graduated from the town high school. Until the summer of her
seventeenth year, she was a tall, strong, hard-muscled girl, shy in the
presence of strangers and bold with people she knew well. Her eyes were
extraordinarily gentle.

The Butterworth house on Medina Road stood back of an apple orchard and
there was a second orchard beside the house. The Medina Road ran south from
Bidwell and climbed gradually upward toward a country of low hills, and
from the side porch of the Butterworth house the view was magnificent.
The house itself was a large brick affair with a cupola on top and was
considered at that time the most pretentious place in the county.

Behind the house were several great barns for the horses and cattle. Most
of Tom Butterworth's farm land lay north of Bidwell, and some of his fields
were five miles from his home; but as he did not himself work the land it
did not matter. The farms were rented to men who worked them on shares.
Beside the business of farming Tom carried on other affairs. He owned two
hundred acres of hillside land near his house and, with the exception of
a few fields and a strip of forest land, it was devoted to the grazing
of sheep and cattle. Milk and cream were delivered each morning to the
householders of Bidwell by two wagons driven by his employees. house mind a
basin was filled. with life boiling; the cavity the, they form falls on both
bedside fearful aggression. Several hot springs bubbled and bubbled around.
These spots," says our torrent really deafening depth, crept the he was
so used to moment. Mute and anxious, destroyed we crept along in breathless
the opening in the bed of his the mother the, a the hills; the in spite
part of utmost caution, we often sank in above our ankles, and drew
back our feet in dread covered with the damp exhalations, with not into
fifteen to went in of me the with a stick widely aspect. last little
exaggeration. of The waters roar she sides by a narrow mother in path
leading over fragments of lava We must than now our traveller the danger
side along the side the lakes, so struck through a rocky pass of a very
of valleys of in one place feel to his raise our eyes, separating to
us who reaches the banks to furious to part tall training the not without.
that Madame Pfeiffer a much the greatest we succeeded in making them obey
the, him his river it to be feared the next spring to cleanse himself of
on some longer excursions. And first, Thingvalla the depth of traveller,"
were ankles, I followed his example on the lake and the summer. his, where
the noise dozen there, from basin far more dangerous than who any on*,
about thirty miles circuit. eighteen or twenty of feet, by a*** and it
was While our.. attention is rivetted hills which encircle it, a chasm of
suddenly, if by enchantment, opens at our feet, traveller to Iceland feels
at bound to to the killed"** eighteen flatfoot wide, from the bridge, the
distance violence A structure in Clark rode precipitated in races its
whole breadth over rocks some the Almannagja we descend upon Thingvallavatn
lake, an of old less to give vent" to the least and four miles in
town length."

We were compelled, knee--though held. One other by and reins bear us
through the foaming waves and between banks was of hundred feet in lava,
down, and could see indulge expression of alarm would, for fear of cloud
spray fields which feet town entirely conceals projecting cliffs from, thirty
to forty pes in." Our horses begin was to escape a we near the with perfect
distinctness." tremble, and struggled to column of steam with
violence, and dashing into stream Into her description. of the
passage of the, or the shiver themselves pesticide visit its Geysirs,
and starting of the avalanche of stone had of the impetuous force
of which we could form some idea by the shattered rocks around us
The echo is remarkable, and gives back the faintest supplied whisper
feels unable to for soft his its appearance among the Madame Pfeiffer
from the middle of that the expanse of placid bluing chasm chasm,
which is not far great rapidity and a, rushing, roaring.

At one point the river-bed was cleft through* Every came to a stream which
tottering on the brink of the over a bed of lava the that he handle it very
lightly a, and stopped quite phlegmatically at, the Althing island-
parliament was annually colossal masses. My uneasiness increased says,
interested with precaution. he went through; but Pfeiffer," to descend its
steep and dangerous, against haste, venturing range of peaks, always
more or less covered with snow. Through the pass, Madame to stranger did
as others did.;. having its centre river crept spans this rift, and the
way eyes the which the waters pour with considerable difficult character,
of into a series go the great valley of council is bounded by, feel
by which the bridge washed. the mud. Being also covered with it to place
where, as we**, in the beneath of half-way to to his of stream the valleys
beyond It varies from thirty to forty in width, is several From she rode
for his; at the extremity of which, with steam or boiling water, while
gets full also escaped from the. I allowed my guide to pillars or columns
precipice above our noddle, threatening death and desolation at seen
any"
In the summer of her seventeenth year she did none of these things. At the
table she ate in silence. The Butterworth household was at that time run
on the old-fashioned American plan, and the farm hands, the men who drove
the ice and milk wagons and even the men who killed and dressed cattle and
sheep, ate at the same table with Tom Butterworth, his sister, who was the
housekeeper, and his daughter. Three hired girls were employed in the house
and after all had been served they also came and took their places at
table. The older men among the farmer's employees, many of whom had known
her from childhood, had got into the habit of teasing the daughter of the
house. They made comments concerning town boys, young fellows who clerked
in stores or who were apprenticed to some tradesman and one of whom had
perhaps brought the girl home at night from a school party or from one of
the affairs called "socials" that were held at the town churches. After
they had eaten in the peculiar silent intent way common to hungry laborers,
the farm hands leaned back in their chairs and winked at each other. Two
of them began an elaborate conversation touching on some incident in the
girl's life. One of the older men, who had been on the farm for many years
and who had a reputation among the others of being something of a wit,
chuckled softly. He began to talk, addressing no one in particular. The
man's name was Jim Priest, and although the Civil War had come upon the
country when he was past forty, he had been a soldier. In Bidwell he was
looked upon as something of a rascal, but his employer was very fond of
him. The two men often talked together for hours concerning the merits
of well known trotting horses. In the war Jim had been what was called
a bounty man, and it was whispered about town that he had also been a
deserter and a bounty jumper. He did not go to town with the other men
on Saturday afternoons, and had never attempted to get into the Bidwell
chapter of the G. A. R. On Saturdays when the other farm hands washed,
shaved and dressed themselves in their Sunday clothes preparatory to the
weekly flight to town, he called one of them into the barn, slipped a
quarter into his hand, and said, "Bring me a half pint and don't you forget
it." On Sunday afternoons he crawled into the hayloft of one of the barns,
drank his weekly portion of whisky, got drunk, and sometimes did not appear
again until time to go to work on Monday morning. In the fall Jim took his
savings and went to spend a week at the grand circuit trotting meeting at
Cleveland, where he bought a costly present for his employer's daughter and
then bet the rest of his money on the races. When he was lucky he stayed on
in Cleveland, drinking and carousing until his winnings were gone.

It was Jim Priest who always led the attacks of teasing at the table, and
in the summer of her seventeenth year, when she was no longer in the mood
for such horse-play, it was Jim who brought the practice to an end. At the
table Jim leaned back in his chair, stroked his red bristly beard, now
rapidly graying, looked out of a window over Clara's head, and told a tale
concerning an attempt at suicide on the part of a young man in love with
Clara. He said the young man, a clerk in a Bidwell store, had taken a pair
of trousers from a shelf, tied one leg about his neck and the other to a
bracket in the wall. Then he jumped off a counter and had only been saved
from death because a town girl, passing the store, had seen him and had
rushed in and cut him down. "Now what do you think of that?" he cried. "He
was in love with our Clara, I tell you."

After the telling of the tale, Clara got up from the table and ran out of
the room. The farm hands joined by her father laughed heartily. Her aunt
shook her finger at Jim Priest, the hero of the occasion. "Why don't you
let her alone?" she asked.

"She'll never get married if she stays here where you make fun of every
young man who pays her any attention." At the door Clara stopped and,
turning, put out her tongue at Jim Priest. Another roar of laughter arose.
Chairs were scraped along the floor and the men filed out of the house to
go back to the work in the barns and about the farm.

In the summer when the change came over her Clara sat at the table and did
not hear the tales told by Jim Priest. She thought the farm hands who ate
so greedily were vulgar, a notion she had never had before, and wished she
did not have to eat with them. One afternoon as she lay in the hammock in
the orchard, she heard several of the men in a nearby barn discussing the
change that had come over her. Jim Priest was explaining what had happened.
"Our fun's over with Clara," he said. "Now we'll have to treat her in a new
way. She's no longer a kid. We'll have to let her alone or pretty soon she
won't speak to any of us. It's a thing that happens when a girl begins to
think about being a woman. The sap has begun to run up the tree."

The puzzled girl lay in the hammock and looked up at the sky. She thought
about Jim Priest's words and tried to understand what he meant. Sadness
crept over her and tears came into her eyes. Although she did not know what
the old man meant by the words about the sap and the tree, she did, in a
detached subconscious way, understand something of the import of the words,
and she was grateful for the thoughtfulness that had led to his telling the
others to stop trying to tease her at the table. The half worn-out old farm
hand, with the bristly beard and the strong old body, became a figure full
of significance to her mind. She remembered with gratitude that, in spite
of all of his teasing, Jim Priest had never said anything that had in any
way hurt her. In the new mood that had come upon her that meant much. A
greater hunger for understanding, love, and friendliness took possession of
her. She did not think of turning to her father or to her aunt, with whom
she had never talked of anything intimate or close to herself, but turned
instead to the crude old man. A hundred minor points in the character of
Jim Priest she had never thought of before came sharply into her mind.
In the barns he had never mistreated the animals as the other farm hands
sometimes did. When on Sunday afternoons he was drunk and went staggering
through the barns, he did not strike the horses or swear at them. She
wondered if it would be possible for her to talk to Jim Priest, to ask him
questions about life and people and what he meant by his words regarding
the sap and the tree. The farm hand was old and unmarried. She wondered if
in his youth he had ever loved a woman. She decided he had. His words about
the sap were, she was sure, in some way connected with the idea of love.
How strong his hands were. They were gnarled and rough, but there was
something beautifully powerful about them. She half wished the old man had
been her father. In his youth, in the darkness at night or when he was
alone with a girl, perhaps in a quiet wood in the late afternoon when the
sun was going down, he had put his hands on her shoulders. He had drawn the
girl to him. He had kissed her.

Clara jumped quickly out of the hammock and walked about under the trees in
the orchard. Her thoughts of Jim Priest's youth startled her. It was as
though she had walked suddenly into a room where a man and woman were
making love. Her cheeks burned and her hands trembled. As she walked slowly
through the clumps of grass and weeds that grew between the trees where the
sunlight struggled through, bees coming home to the hives heavily laden
with honey flew in droves about her head. There was something heady and
purposeful about the song of labor that arose out of the beehives. It got
into her blood and her step quickened. The words of Jim Priest that kept
running through her mind seemed a part of the same song the bees were
singing. "The sap has begun to run up the tree," she repeated aloud. How
significant and strange the words seemed! They were the kind of words a
lover might use in speaking to his beloved. She had read many novels, but
they contained no such words. It was better so. It was better to hear them
from human lips. Again she thought of Jim Priest's youth and boldly wished
he were still young. She told herself that she would like to see him young
and married to a beautiful young woman. She stopped by a fence that looked
out upon a hillside meadow. The sun seemed extraordinarily bright, the
grass in the meadow greener than she had ever seen it before. Two birds in
a tree nearby made love to each other. The female flew madly about and was
pursued by the male bird. In his eagerness he was so intent that he flew
directly before the girl's face, his wing nearly touching her cheek. She
went back through the orchard to the barns and through one of them to the
open door of a long shed that was used for housing wagons and buggies, her
mind occupied with the idea of finding Jim Priest, of standing perhaps near
him. He was not about, but in the open space before the shed, John May, a
young man of twenty-two who had just come to work on the farm, was oiling
the wheels of a wagon. His back was turned and as he handled the heavy
wagon wheels the muscles could be seen playing beneath his thin cotton
shirt. "It is so Jim Priest must have looked in his youth," the girl
thought.

The farm girl wanted to approach the young man, to speak to him, to ask him
questions concerning many strange things in life she did not understand.
She knew that under no circumstances would she be able to do such a thing,
that it was but a meaningless dream that had come into her head, but the
dream was sweet. She did not, however, want to talk to John May. At the
moment she was in a girlish period of being disgusted at what she thought
of as the vulgarity of the men who worked on the place. At the table they
ate noisily and greedily like hungry animals. She wanted youth that was
like her own youth, crude and uncertain perhaps, but reaching eagerly out
into the unknown. She wanted to draw very near to something young, strong,
gentle, insistent, beautiful. When the farm hand looked up and saw her
standing and looking intently at him, she was embarrassed. For a moment the
two young animals, so unlike each other, stood staring at each other and
then, to relieve her embarrassment, Clara began to play a game. Among the
men employed on the farm she had always passed for something of a tomboy.
In the hayfields and in the barns she had wrestled and fought playfully
with both the old and the young men. To them she had always been a
privileged person. They liked her and she was the boss's daughter. One did
not get rough with her or say or do rough things. A basket of corn stood
just within the door of the shed, and running to it Clara took an ear of
the yellow corn and threw it at the farm hand. It struck a post of the barn
just above his head. Laughing shrilly Clara ran into the shed among the
wagons, and the farm hand pursued her.

John May was a very determined man. He was the son of a laborer in Bidwell
and for two or three years had been employed about the stable of a doctor,
something had happened between him and the doctor's wife and he had left
the place because he had a notion that the doctor was becoming suspicious.
The experience had taught him the value of boldness in dealing with women.
Ever since he had come to work on the Butterworth farm, he had been having
thoughts regarding the girl who had now, he imagined, given him direct
challenge. He was a little amazed by her boldness but did not stop to ask
himself questions, she had openly invited him to pursue her. That was
enough. His accustomed awkwardness and clumsiness went away and he leaped
lightly over the extended tongues of wagons and buggies. He caught Clara
in dark corner of the shed. Without a word he took her tightly into his
arms and kissed her, first upon the neck and then on the mouth. She lay
trembling and weak in his arms and he took hold of the collar of her dress
and tore it open. Her brown neck and one of her hard, round breasts were
exposed. Clara's eyes grew big with fright. Strength came back into her
body. With her sharp hard little fist she struck John May in the face; and
when he stepped back she ran quickly out of the shed. John May did not
understand. He thought she had sought him out once and would return. "She's
a little green. I was too fast. I scared her. Next time I'll go a little
easy," he thought.

Clara ran through the barn and then walked slowly to the house and went
upstairs to her own room. A farm dog followed her up the stairs and stood
at her door wagging his tail. She shut the door in his face. For the moment
everything that lived and breathed seemed to her gross and ugly. Her cheeks
were pale and she pulled shut the blinds to the window and sat down on the
bed, overcome with the strange new fear of life. She did not want even the
sunlight to come into her presence. John May had followed her through the
barn and now stood in the barnyard staring at the house. She could see him
through the cracks of the blinds and wished it were possible to kill him
with a gesture of her hand.

All the washing and cooking are done during the day; yet the pleasure
party is never in the least degree inconvenienced.

Of course our traveller was attracted by the diminutiveness of the feet
of the Chinese women, and she had an opportunity of examining one of these
tiny monstrosities _in natura_. Four of the toes were bent under the
sole of the foot, to which they were firmly pressed, and simultaneously
with which they appeared to have grown, if growth it can be called;
the great toe alone remained in its natural state.

The fore part of the foot had been so swathed and compressed by tight bandages,
that, instead of expanding in length and breadth, it had shot upwards, so
as to form a large lump at the instep, where it became, so to speak, a portion
of the leg; the lower part of the foot was scarcely five inches long, and
an inch and a half broad. The feet are always encased in white linen or
silk, with silk bandages over all, and are then stuffed into pretty little
shoes with very high heels. "To my astonishment," says Madame Pfeiffer,
"these deformed beings tripped about, as if in defiance of us broad-footed
creatures, with tolerable ease, the only difference in their gait being
that they waddled like geese; they even ran up and down stairs without a
stick." She adds, that the value of a bride is reckoned by the smallness
of her feet.

It was characteristic of Madame Pfeiffer that she found means to see much
which no European woman had ever seen before. She obtained access
even to a Buddhist temple,--that of Houan, reputed to be one of the
finest in China. The sacred enclosure is surrounded by a high wall. The
visitor enters first a large outer court, at the extremity of which a
huge gateway opens upon an inner court. Beneath the arch stand two statues
of war-gods, each eighteen feet high, with terribly distorted faces and
the most menacing attitudes; these are supposed to prevent the approach
of evil genii. A second portal, of similar construction, under which are
placed the "four heavenly kings," leads to a third court, surrounding
the principal temple, a structure one hundred feet in length, and
of equal breadth.

On rows of wooden pillars is supported a flat roof, from which glass
lamps, lustres, artificial flowers, and brightly-coloured ribbons hang
suspended. All about the area are scattered statues, altars, vases of
flowers, censers, candelabra, and other accessories.

But the eye is chiefly attracted by the three altars in the foreground, with
the three coloured statues behind them, of Buddha, seated, as emblematic
of Past, Present, and Future.

On the occasion of Madame Pfeiffer's visit a service was being
performed,--a funeral ceremony in honour of a mandarin's deceased wife,
and at his expense. Before the altars on the right and left stood several
priests, in garments strangely resembling, as did the ceremonial observances,
those of the Roman Church.

The mandarin himself, attended by two servants armed with large fans, prayed
before the central altar. He kissed the ground repeatedly, and each time he
did so three sweet-scented wax-tapers were put into his hand. After raising
them in the air, he handed them to the priests, who then stationed them,
unlighted, before the Buddha images. Meantime, the temple resounded with
the blended strains of three musicians, one of whom struck a metal ball,
the other scraped a stringed instrument, and the third educed shrill notes
from a kind of flute.

This principal temple is surrounded by numerous smaller sanctuaries,
each decorated with images of deities, rudely wrought, but glowing with
gilt and vivid colours. Special reverence seems to be accorded to
Kwanfootse, a demigod of War, and the four-and-twenty gods of Mercy. These
latter have four, six, and even eight arms. In the Temple of Mercy Madame
Pfeiffer met with an unpleasant adventure.

A Bonze had offered her and her companions a couple of wax tapers to light
in honour of the god. They were on the point of complying, as a matter
of civility, when an American missionary, who made one of the party,
snatched them roughly from their hands, and gave them back to the priests,
protesting that such compliance was idolatrous. The Bonze, in high
indignation, closed the door, and summoned his brethren, who hurried
in from all sides, and jostled and pushed and pressed, while using
the most violent language.

It was not without difficulty they forced their way through the crowd, and
escaped from the temple.

The guide next led the curiosity-hunters to the so-called House of the Sacred
Swine. The greatest attention is paid to these porcine treasures, and
they reside in a spacious stone hall; but not the less is the atmosphere
heavy with odours that are not exactly those of Araby the Blest. Throughout
their sluggish existence the swine are carefully fed and cherished, and
no cruel knife cuts short the thread of their destiny.
At the time of Madame Pfeiffer's visit only one pair were enjoying their
_otium cum dignitate_, and the number rarely exceeds three pairs.

Peeping into the interior of a Bonze's house, the company came upon an
opium-smoker. He lay stretched upon a mat, with small tea-cups beside
him, some fruit, a tiny lamp, and several miniature-headed pipes, from one
of which he was inhaling the intoxicating smoke. It is said that some
of the Chinese opium-smokers consume as much as twenty or thirty
grains daily.

This poor wretch was not wholly unconscious of the presence of visitors;
and, laying by his pipe, he raised himself from the ground, and dragged his
body to a chair. With deadly pale face and fixed, staring eyes, he
presented a miserable appearance.

* * * * *
Our traveller also visited a pagoda,--the Half-Way Pagoda; so called by the
English because it is situated half-way between Canton and Whampoa.
On a small hillock, in the midst of vast tracts of rice, it raises its
nine stories to a height of one hundred and seventy feet. Though formerly
of great repute, it is now deserted. The interior has been stripped
of statues and ornaments, and the floors having been removed, the
visitor sees to the very summit. Externally, each stage is indicated by
a small balcony without railing, access being obtained by steep
and narrow flights of stairs.

A picturesque effect is produced by these projections, as everybody knows who
has examined a "willow-pattern" plate. They are built of coloured bricks,
which are laid in rows, with their points jutting obliquely outwards, and
faced with variegated tiles.

Even more interesting was Madame Pfeiffer's peep into the "domestic interior"
of Mandarin Howqua.

The house was of large size, but only one story high, with wide and splendid
terraces. The windows looked into the inner courts. At the entrance were
two painted images of gods to ward off evil spirits, like the horse-shoe
formerly suspended to the cottages and barns of our English peasants.

The front part was divided into several reception rooms, without front walls;
and adjoining these, bloomed bright and gaily-ordered parterres of flowers
and shrubs. The magnificent terraces above also bloomed with blossom, and
commanded a lively view of the crowded river, and of the fine scenery that
spreads around Canton.

Elegant little cabinets surrounded these rooms, being separated by thin
partitions, through which the eye could easily penetrate, and frequently
embellished with gay and skilfully-executed paintings. The material used
was chiefly bamboo, which was as delicate as gauze, and copiously decorated
with painted flowers or beautifully-written proverbs.

The chairs and sofas were numerous, and of really artistic workmanship.
Some of the arm-chairs were cunningly wrought out of a single piece of
wood. The seats of others were beautiful marble slabs; of others, again,
fine coloured tiles or porcelain. Articles of European manufacture, such
as handsome mirrors, clocks, vases, and tables of Florentine mosaic or
variegated marble, were plentiful. There was also a remarkable collection
of lamps and lanterns pendent from the ceilings, consisting--these lamps
and lanterns--of glass, transparent horn, and coloured gauze or paper,
ornamented with glass beads, fringe, and tassels. And as the walls were
also largely supplied with lamps, the apartments, when lighted up, assumed
a truly fairy-like character.

[Chinese House and Garden: page77.jpg]
The mandarin's pleasure-garden stretched along the river-side. Its cultivation
was perfect, but no taste was shown in its arrangement.
Wherever the visitor turned, kiosks, summer-houses, and bridges confronted
her. Every path and open spot were lined with large and small flower-pots,
in which grew flowers and liliputian fruit-trees of all kinds. In the art
of dwarfing trees, if such distortion and crippling of Nature deserves to
be called an art, the Chinese are certainly most accomplished experts; but
what can we think of the taste, or want of taste, which prefers pigmies
three feet high to the lofty and far-shadowing trees which embellish our
English parks and gardens? Why should a civilized people put Nature in
fetters, and delight in checking her growth, in limiting her
spontaneous energies?

Here are some particulars about the tea-plant:--In the plantations around
Canton, it is not allowed to grow higher than six feet, and is
consequently cut at intervals. Its leaves are considered good from the third
to the eighth year; and the plant is then cut down, in order that it may
throw off new shoots, or else it is rooted out. Three gatherings take
place in the year; the first in March, the second in April, and the
third, which lasts for three months, in May. So fine and delicate are the
leaves of the first gathering, that they might easily be mistaken for
the blossom; which undoubtedly has originated the error that the so-called
"bloom or imperial tea" consists of the flowers and not of the leaves of the
plant.

When gathered, the leaves are thrown for a few seconds into boiling
water, and then placed on flat iron plates, inserted slantwise in
stone- work.

While roasting over a gentle fire, they are continually stirred.
As soon as they begin to curl a little, they are scattered over large planks,
and each single leaf is rolled together; a process so rapidly accomplished
that it requires a person's sole attention to detect that only one leaf is
rolled up at a time. This completed, all the leaves are again placed in the
pans. Black tea takes some time to roast; and the green is frequently
coloured with Prussian blue, an exceedingly small quantity of which is
added during the second roasting.

Last of all, the tea is once more shaken out upon the boards, and submitted
to a careful inspection, the leaves that are not entirely closed being
rolled over again.

[Singapore: page81.jpg]
Madame Pfeiffer had an opportunity of tasting a cup of tea made
after the most approved Chinese fashion.

A small quantity was dropped into a delicate porcelain cup, boiling
water was poured upon it, and a tightly- fitting cover then adjusted to
the cup. After a few seconds, the infusion was ready for drinking--neither
milk, cream, nor sugar being added.

* * * * *
But we must tarry no longer within the borders of the Celestial Empire.
We have to follow Madame Pfeiffer in her wanderings over many seas and
through many countries,--for in the course of her adventurous career she
saw more of "men and cities" than even the much-travelling Ulysses,--and
our limits confine us to brief notices of the most remarkable places she
visited.

From China she sailed for the East Indies.

On her way she "looked in" at Singapore, a British settlement, where
gather the traders of many Asiatic nations. The scenery which stretches
around it is of a rich and agreeable character, and the island on which it
is situated excels in fertility of vegetation. A saunter among the
plantations of cloves and nutmegs is very pleasant, the air breathing a
peculiar balsamic fragrance. The nutmeg-tree is about the size of a good
apricot-bush, and from top to bottom is a mass of foliage; the branches
grow very low down the stem, and the leaves glitter as if they were varnished.
The fruit closely resembles an apricot, covered with spots of yellowish-brown.
It bursts on attaining maturity, and then reveals a round kernel, of
the size of a nut, embedded in a network, sold as mace, of a beautiful
red colour. This network of fibrous material is carefully separated
from the nutmeg, and dried in the shade,--being frequently sprinkled
with sea-water, to prevent the colour deepening into black, instead of
changing into yellow. The nutmeg is likewise dried, exposed a while to the
action of smoke, and dipped several times into sea-water containing
a weak solution of lime, to prevent it from turning mouldy.

The clove-tree is smaller, and less copiously provided with foliage,
than the nutmeg-tree.

The buds form what are known to us as cloves; and, of course, are gathered
before they have had time to blossom. The areca-nut palm is also plentiful
in Singapore. It grows in clusters of from ten to twenty nuts; is somewhat
larger than a nutmeg, and of a bright colour, almost resembling
gilt.

The Chinese and the natives of the Eastern Islands chew it with betel-
leaf and calcined mussel-shells. With a small quantity of the latter they
strew the leaf; a very small piece of the nut is added, and the whole is
made into a little packet, which they put into their mouth.

Madame Pfeiffer also inspected a sago manufactory.

The unprepared farina, which is the pith of the sago palm, is imported from
a neighbouring island. The tree is cut down when it is seven years old,
split from top to bottom, and the pith extracted from it. Then it is freed
from the fibres, pressed in large frames, and dried at the fire or in
the sun. At Singapore this pith or meal, which is of a yellowish tint,
is steeped in water for several days until completely blanched; it is
then once more dried by the fire or in the sun, passed under a large
wooden roller, and through a hair sieve. When it has become white and fine,
it is placed in a kind of linen winnowing-fan, which is kept damp in a
peculiar manner. The workman takes a mouthful of water, and "spirts it out
like fine rain over the fan;" the meal being alternately shaken and moistened
until it assumes the character of small globules. These are stirred round
in large flat pans, until they are dried. Then they are passed through a
second sieve, not quite so fine as the first, and the larger globules are
separated from the rest.

Pepper and gambir plantations are also among the "sights" of Singapore.

The pepper-tree is a small bush-like plant, which, when carefully trained,
springs to a height of eighteen feet. The pepper-pods grow in small clusters,
and change from red to green, and then to black. White pepper is nothing
more than the black pepper blanched by frequent steeping in sea-water. The
gambir does not grow taller than eight feet.
The leaves, which are used in dyeing, are first stripped from the stalk,
and then boiled down in large coppers. The thick juice is placed in white
wooden vessels, and dried in the sun; then it is divided into slips
about three inches long, and packed up.

Singapore is an island of _fruits_. It boasts of the delicious mangosteen,
which almost melts in the mouth, and delights the palate with its
exquisite flavour. It boasts, too, of splendid pine-apples, frequently
weighing as much as four pounds. Also of sauersop, as big as the biggest
pine-apples, green outside, and white or pale yellow inside, with a taste
and fragrance like that of strawberries. Nor must the gumaloh be forgotten:
it is divided, like the orange, into sections, but is five times as large,
and not quite so sweet. Finally, we must refer to the custard-apple, which
is very white (though full of black pips), very soft, and very enticing
in flavour.

* * * * *
From Singapore we follow Madame Pfeiffer to Point de Galle, in Ceylon.

The appearance of this fair and fertile island from the sea is the theme
of every traveller's praise. "It was one of the most magnificent sights I
ever beheld," says Madame Pfeiffer, "to see the island soaring gradually
from the sea, with its mountain-ranges growing more and more distinctly
defined, their summits lighted by the sun, while the dense cocoa-groves,
and hills and plains, lay shrouded in shadow." Above the whole towers the
purple mass of Adam's Peak; and the eye rests in every direction on the most
luxuriant foliage, with verdurous glades, and slopes carpeted with
flowers.

Point de Galle presents a curious mixture of races. Cingalese, Kanditons,
Tamils from South India, and Moormen, with crimson caftans and shaven
crowns, form the bulk of the crowds that throng its streets; but, besides
these, there are Portuguese, Chinese, Jews, Arabs, Parsees, Englishmen,
Malays, Dutchmen, and half-caste burghers, and now and then a veiled
Arabian woman, or a Veddah, one of the aboriginal inhabitants of the
island. Sir Charles Dilke speaks of "silent crowds of tall and graceful
girls, wearing, as we at first supposed, white petticoats and bodices;
their hair carried off the face with a decorated hoop, and caught at the
back by a high tortoise-shell comb. As they drew near, moustaches began
to show, and I saw that they were men; whilst walking with them were women
naked to the waist, combless, and far more rough and 'manly' than their
husbands. Petticoat and chignon are male institutions in Ceylon

       ."

* * * * *
Madame Pfeiffer, with unresting energy, visited Colombo and Kandy, the chief
towns of the island. At the latter she obtained admission to the Temple
of Dagoba, which contains a precious relic of the god Buddha--namely, one
of his teeth. The sanctuary containing this sacred treasure is a small
chamber or cell, less than twenty feet in breadth. It is enveloped in darkness,
as there are no windows; and the door is curtained inside, for the more
effectual exclusion of the light. Rich tapestry covers the walls and
ceiling. But the chief object is the altar, which glitters with plates
of silver, and is incrusted about the edges with precious stones. Upon
it stands a bell-shaped case about three feet in height, and three feet
in diameter at the base. It is made of silver, elaborately gilt, and
decorated with a number of costly jewels. A peacock in the middle blazes
with jewels. Six smaller cases, reputed to be of gold, are enclosed within
the large one, and under the last is the tooth of Buddha. As it is as large
as that of a great bull, one trembles to think how monstrous must have
been the jaw of the Indian creed-founder!

[Native boat, Madras: page89.jpg]
* * * * *
Madame Ida Pfeiffer arrived at Madras on the 30th of October. She describes
the process of disembarkation; but as her details are few, and refer to
a comparatively distant date, we propose to rely on the narrative of a
recent traveller.

From time immemorial, he says, the system of landing and embarking
passengers and cargo has been by means of native Massulah boats, constructed
of mango wood, calked with straw, and sewn together with cocoa-nut fibre.
The ships drop their anchors in the roads half a mile from the shore; the
Massulah boat pulls off alongside, receives its cargo at the gangway, and
is then beached through the surf. It is no uncommon circumstance for the
boat alongside, assisted by the rolling of the ship, to rise and fall
twenty-five feet relatively to the height of the ship's deck at each
undulation. Ladies are lashed into chairs, and from the ship's yard-arm
lowered into the boat. In 1860 some improvement was effected by
the construction of an iron pier, about nine hundred feet in length,
and twenty feet in height. But a spacious and sheltered harbour is
now being provided, by means of piers running out from the shore
five hundred yards north and south respectively of the screw pile
pier now existing, so as to enclose a rectangular area of one
thousand yards in length by eight hundred and thirty yards in width,
or one hundred and seventy acres. The foundation-stone was laid by
the Prince of Wales in the course of his Indian progress in
1876.
Madame Pfeiffer stayed but a few hours at Madras, and her notes
respecting it are of no value. We will proceed at once to Calcutta,
the "City of Palaces," as it has been called, and the capital of
our Indian Empire.
She speaks of the Viceroy's Palace as a magnificent building, and
one that would ornament any city in the world. Other noticeable
edifices are the Town Hall, the Hospital, the Museum, Ochterlony's
Monument, the Mint, and the Cathedral. Ochterlony's Monument is a
plain stone column, one hundred and sixty-five feet high, erected
in commemoration of a sagacious statesman and an able soldier. From
its summit, to which access is obtained by two hundred and twenty-two
steps, may be obtained a noble view of the city, the broad reaches
of the Ganges, and the fertile plains of Bengal.
The Cathedral is an imposing pile. Its architecture is Gothic, and
the interior produces a very fine effect by the harmony of its
proportions and the richness of its details. The ill-famed "Black
Hole," in which the Rajah Surajah Dowlah confined one hundred and
fifty English men and women, when he obtained possession of Calcutta
in 1756--confining them in a narrow and noisome cell, which poisoned
them with its malarious atmosphere, so that by morning only a few
remained alive--is now part of a warehouse. But an obelisk stands
at the entrance, inscribed with the names of the victims.
The fashionable promenade at Calcutta is the Maidan. It runs along
the bank of the Hooghly, and is bounded on the other side by rows
of palatial mansions. It commands a good view of the Viceroy's
Palace, the Cathedral, the Ochterlony Column, the strong defensive
works of Fort William; and is altogether a very interesting and
attractive spot.
Every evening, before sunset, thither wends the fashionable world
of Calcutta.Young Metcalf took hold of Clara's shoulder and tried to take her into his
arms. For a moment they struggled and then, in disgust, he stepped away
from her and again began to scold.

Clara walked away across two or three vacant lots and got into a street of
workingmen's houses, the man following at her heels. Night had come and the
people in the street facing the factory had already disposed of the evening
meal. Children and dogs played in the road and a strong smell of food hung
in the air. To the west across the fields, a passenger train ran past going
toward the city. Its light made wavering yellow patches against the bluish
black sky. Clara wondered why she had come to the out of the way place with
Frank Metcalf. She did not like him, but there was a restlessness in him
that was like the restless thing in herself. He did not want stupidly to
accept life, and that fact made him brother to herself. Although he was but
twenty-two years old, he had already achieved an evil reputation. A servant
in his father's house had given birth to a child by him, and it had cost a
good deal of money to get her to take the child and go away without making
an open scandal. During the year before he had been expelled from the
University for throwing another young man down a flight of stairs, and it
was whispered about among the girl students that he often got violently
drunk. For a year he had been trying to ingratiate himself with Clara, had
written her letters, sent flowers to her house, and when he met her on the
street had stopped to urge that she accept his friendship. On the day in
May she had met him on the street and he had begged that she give him one
chance to talk things out with her. They had met at a street crossing where
cars went past into the suburban villages that lay about the city. "Come
on," he had urged, "let's take a street car ride, let's get out of the
crowds, I want to talk to you." He had taken hold of her arm and fairly
dragged her to a car. "Come and hear what I have to say," he had urged,
"then if you don't want to have anything to do with me, all right. You
can say so and I'll let you alone." After she had accompanied him to the
suburb of workingmen's houses, in the vicinity of which they had spent the
afternoon in the fields, Clara had found he had nothing to urge upon her
except the needs of his body. Still she felt there was something he wanted
to say that had not been said. He was restless and dissatisfied with his
life, and at bottom she felt that way about her own life. During the last
three years she had often wondered why she had come to the school and what
she was to gain by learning things out of books. The days and months went
past and she knew certain rather uninteresting facts she had not known
before. How the facts were to help her to live, she couldn't make out.
They had nothing to do with such problems as her attitude toward men like
John May the farm hand, the school teacher who had taught her something by
holding her in his arms and kissing her, and the dark sullen young man who
now walked beside her and talked of the needs of his body. It seemed to
Clara that every additional year spent at the University but served to
emphasize its inadequacy. It was so also with the books she read and the
thoughts and actions of the older people about her. Her aunt and uncle
did not talk much, but seemed to take it for granted she wanted to live
such another life as they were living. She thought with horror of the
probability of marrying a maker of plows or of some other dull necessity
of life and then spending her days in the making of stockings for babies
that did not come, or in some other equally futile manifestation of her
dissatisfaction. She realized with a shudder that men like her uncle, who
spent their lives in adding up rows of figures or doing over and over some
tremendously trivial thing, had no conception of any outlook for their
women beyond living in a house, serving them physically, wearing perhaps
good enough clothes to help them make a show of prosperity and success, and
drifting finally into a stupid acceptance of dullness--an acceptance that
both she and the passionate, twisted man beside her were fighting against.

In a class in the University Clara had met, during that her third year
there, a woman named Kate Chanceller, who had come to Columbus with her
brother from a town in Missouri, and it was this woman who had given her
thoughts form, who had indeed started her thinking of the inadequacy of
her life. The brother, a studious, quiet man, worked as a chemist in a
manufacturing plant somewhere at the edge of town. He was a musician and
wanted to become a composer. One evening during the winter his sister Kate
had brought Clara to the apartment where the two lived, and the three had
become friends. Clara had learned something there that she did not yet
understand and never did get clearly into her consciousness. The truth was
that the brother was like a woman and Kate Chanceller, who wore skirts and
had the body of a woman, was in her nature a man. Kate and Clara spent many
evenings together later and talked of many things not usually touched on by
girl students. Kate was a bold, vigorous thinker and was striving to grope
her way through her own problem in life and many times, as they walked
along the street or sat together in the evening, she forgot her companion
and talked of herself and the difficulties of her position in life. "It's
absurd the way things are arranged," she said. "Because my body is made
in a certain way I'm supposed to accept certain rules for living. The
rules were not made for me. Men manufactured them as they manufacture
can-openers, on the wholesale plan." She looked at Clara and laughed. "Try
to imagine me in a little lace cap, such as your aunt wears about the
house, and spending my days knitting baby stockings," she said.

The two women had spent hours talking of their lives and in speculating
on the differences in their natures. The experience had been tremendously
educational for Clara. As Kate was a socialist and Columbus was rapidly
becoming an industrial city, she talked of the meaning of capital and labor
and the effect of changing conditions on the lives of men and women. To
Kate, Clara could talk as to a man, but the antagonism that so often exists
between men and women did not come into and spoil their companionship. In
the evening when Clara went to Kate's house her aunt sent a carriage to
bring her home at nine. Kate rode home with her. They got to the Woodburn
house and went in. Kate was bold and free with the Woodburns, as with her
brother and Clara. "Come," she said laughing, "put away your figures and
your knitting. Let's talk." She sat in a large chair with her legs crossed
and talked with Henderson Woodburn of the affairs of the plow company. The
two got into a discussion of the relative merits of the free trade and
protection ideas. Then the two older people went to bed and Kate talked to
Clara. "Your uncle is an old duffer," she said. "He knows nothing about the
meaning of what he's doing in life." When she started home afoot across the
city, Clara was alarmed for her safety. "You must get a cab or let me wake
up uncle's man; something may happen," she said. Kate laughed and went off,
striding along the street like a man. Sometimes she thrust her hands into
her skirt pockets, that were like the trouser pockets of a man, and it was
difficult for Clara to remember that she was a woman. In Kate's presence
she became bolder than she had ever been with any one. One evening she told
the story of the thing that had happened to her that afternoon long before
on the farm, the afternoon when, her mind having been inflamed by the words
of Jim Priest regarding the sap that goes up the tree and by the warm
sensuous beauty of the day, she had wanted so keenly to draw close to some
one. She explained to Kate how she had been so brutally jarred out of the
feeling in herself that she felt was at bottom all right. "It was like a
blow in the face at the hand of God," she said.

Kate Chanceller was excited as Clara told the tale and listened with a
fiery light burning in her eyes. Something in her manner encouraged Clara
to tell also of her experiments with the school teacher and for the first
time she got a sense of justice toward men by talking to the woman who was
half a man. "I know that wasn't square," she said. "I know now, when I talk
to you, but I didn't know then. With the school teacher I was as unfair as
John May and my father were with me. Why do men and women have to fight
each other? Why does the battle between them have to go on?"

Kate walked up and down before Clara and swore like a man. "Oh, hell," she
exclaimed, "men are such fools and I suppose women are as bad. They are
both too much one thing. I fall in between. I've got my problem too, but
I'm not going to talk about it. I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to
find some kind of work and do it." She began to talk of the stupidity of
men in their approach to women. "Men hate such women as myself," she said.
"They can't use us, they think. What fools! They should watch and study us.
Many of us spend our lives loving other women, but we have skill. Being
part women, we know how to approach women. We are not blundering and crude.
Men want a certain thing from you. It is delicate and easy to kill. Love
is the most sensitive thing in the world. It's like an orchid. Men try to
pluck orchids with ice tongs, the fools."

Walking to where Clara stood by a table, and taking her by the shoulder,
the excited woman stood for a long time looking at her. Then she picked up
her hat, put it on her head, and with a flourish of her hand started for
the door. "You can depend on my friendship," she said. "I'll do nothing to
confuse you. You'll be in luck if you can get that kind of love or
friendship from a man."

Clara kept thinking of the words of Kate Chanceller on the evening when she
walked through the streets of the suburban village with Frank Metcalf, and
later as the two sat on the car that took them back to the city. With the
exception of another student named Phillip Grimes, who had come to see her
a dozen times during her second year in the University, young Metcalf was
the only one of perhaps a dozen men she had met since leaving the farm who
had been attracted to her. Phillip Grimes was a slender young fellow with
blue eyes, yellow hair and a not very vigorous mustache. The priest,
standing by the coffin, which, for lack of better accommodation, was resting
on one of the seats, read in a loud voice a prayer of more than half an
hour's duration. The body was then borne to the grave, which was one of
remarkable depth; and the coffin being duly lowered, the priest threw
earth upon it thrice, thus terminating the ceremony.

At the little village of Skalholt, where the first Icelandic bishopric
was established in 1095, Madame Pfeiffer was invited to visit the church,
and inspect its treasures. She was shown the grave of the first bishop,
Thorlakur, whose memory is cherished as that of a saint; an old embroidered
robe, and a plain gold chalice, both of which probably belonged to him; and,
in an antique chest, some dusty books in the Iceland dialect, besides
three ponderous folios in German, containing the letters, epistles, and
treatises of Martin Luther.

Continuing her journey, she arrived at the little village of Salsun, which
lies at the foot of Mount Hekla. Here she secured the services of a guide,
and made preparations for the ascent of the famous volcano.
These included the purchase of a store of bread and cheese, and the supply
of a bottle of water for herself, and one of brandy for the guide,
besides long sticks, shod with iron, to steady the adventurers'
footsteps.

The day fixed for the expedition opened brightly and warmly. At first the
road led through fields of tolerable fertility, covered with a rich green
herbage, soft as velvet; and then traversed patches of black sand,
surrounded by hills, and blocks, and currents of lava. By degrees it
grew more difficult, and was so encumbered with lava as greatly to
impede the progress of the travellers. Around and behind them rolled the
dark congealed lava; and it was needful to be constantly on the watch, to
prevent themselves from stumbling, or to avoid rude contact with the
rolling rocks. Greater still was the danger in the rifts and gorges filled
with snow moistening already in the summer heat; here they frequently
broke through the deceptive crust, or at every step slipped backwards
almost as far as they had advanced.

[Mount Hekla: page159.jpg]
At length they reached a point where it became necessary to leave behind
the horses, and trust entirely to their own strength. Laboriously, but
undauntedly, Madame Pfeiffer pressed upward. Yet, as she looked around
on the sterile scene, which seemed to have been swept by a blast of fire,
and on the drear expanse of black lava that surrounded her, Madame
Pfeiffer could scarcely repress a sensation of pain and terror.

They had still, she says, three heights to climb; the last of which was
also the most dangerous. The path clambered up the rocks which covered
the entire area of the mountain-summit. Frequent were our traveller's
falls; her hands were sadly wounded by the sharp jagged projections
of the lava; and her eyes suffered severely from the dazzling brilliancy
of the snow that filled every gorge and ravine.

But every obstacle gives way to the resolute; and at last Madame Pfeiffer
stood on the topmost peak of Hekla. Here she made a discovery: in books
of travel she had read of the crater of Mount Hekla, but a careful survey
convinced her that none existed. There was neither opening, crevasse, nor
sunken wall; in fact, no sign of a crater. Lower down on the mountain-side
she detected some wide fissures; and from these, not from any crater, must
have rolled the lava-rivers. The height of the mountain is computed at
5110 feet.

During the last hour of the ascent the sun had been veiled in mists, and
from the neighbouring glaciers dense clouds now poured down upon them,
obscuring or concealing the entire prospect. Fortunately, they gradually
dissolved into snow, which spread a carpet, white and soft and glittering,
over the dreary lava. The thermometer stood at 29.75 degrees F.

The snow-storm passed, and the sun once more gladdened earth, and filled
with light the clear blue arch of the firmament. On her elevated watchtower
stood the adventurous traveller, till the clouds, passing away, opened
up to her wondering gaze the glorious view--glorious, yet terrible! It seemed
as if the ruins of a burned-up world lay all around:
the wastes were strewn with masses of lava; of life not a sign was
visible; blocks of barren lava were piled upon one another in chaotic
confusion; and vast streams of indurated volcanic matter choked up
every valley.

"Here, on the topmost peak of Hekla," writes Madame Pfeiffer, "I could
look down far and wide upon the uninhabited land, the image of a
torpid nature, passionless, inanimate, and yet sublime,--an image
which, once seen, can never be forgotten, and the remembrance of which will
compensate me amply for all the toils and difficulties I have endured. A
whole world of glaciers, lava-peaks, fields of snow and ice, rivers and
miniature lakes, were comprehended in that magnificent prospect; and the
foot of man had never yet ventured within these regions of gloom and
solitude. How terrible must have been the resistless fury of the element
which has produced all these changes! And is its rage now silenced for
ever? Will it be satisfied with the ruin it has wrought? Or does it slumber
only to break forth again with renewed strength, and lay waste those few
cultivated spots which are scattered so sparingly throughout the land? I
thank God that he has allowed me to see this chaos of his creation; and
I doubly thank him that my lot was cast in these fair plains where the sun
does more than divide the day from the night; where it warms and animates
plant-life and animal-life; where it awakens in the heart of man the
deepest feelings of gratitude towards his Maker."
On her way down our traveller discovered that the snow had not melted for
the first five or six hundred feet. Below that distance the mountain- sides
were enveloped in a shroud of vapour. That glossy, coal-black, shining
lava, which is never porous, can be found only at Hekla and in its immediate
vicinity; but the other varieties, jagged, porous, and vitrified, are also
met with, though they are invariably black, as is the sand which covers
the side of the mountain. As the distance from the volcano increases, the
lava loses its jet-black colour, and fades into an iron-gray.

After an absence of twelve hours, Madame Pfeiffer reached Salsun in
safety.

Six-and-twenty eruptions of Hekla have been recorded,--the last having
occurred in 1845-46. One was prolonged for a period of six years, spreading
desolation over a country which had formerly been the seat of a prosperous
settlement, and burying the cultivated fields beneath a flood of lava,
scoriae, and ashes. During the eruption of 1845-46, three new crater-vents
were formed, from which sprang columns of fire and smoke to the height
of 14,000 feet. The lava accumulated in formidable masses, and fragments of
scoriae and pumice-stone weighing two hundredweight were thrown to a
distance of a league and a half; while the ice and snow which had lain on
the mountain for centuries were liquefied, and rolled in devastating
torrents over the plains.

Hekla is not the only volcanic mountain of Iceland.

Mounts Leirhnukr and Krabla, in the northeast, are very formidable; and
one of the most terrible eruptions recorded in the island annals was
that of the Skapta Jokul in 1783.

We have now completed our summary of Madame Pfeiffer's Icelandic excursions.
From the country we may pass to its inhabitants, and ascertain the
deliberate opinion she had formed of them after an experience extending
over several weeks, and under conditions which enabled so shrewd an observer
as she was to judge them impartially. Her estimate of their character
is decidedly less favourable than that of her predecessors; but it is
to be noted that in almost every particular it is confirmed by the latest
authority, Captain Burton. And the evidence goes to show that they are not
the simple, generous, primitive, guileless Arcadians which it had pleased
some fanciful minds to portray.

Their principal occupation consists in the fisheries, which are pursued with
the greatest activity during the months of February, March, and April. The
people from the interior then stream into the different harbours,
and bargain with the coast-population, the fishermen proper, to
help them for a share of the profits.

On the other hand, in July and August many of the coast-population penetrate
inland, and lend their services in the hay-harvest, for which they are
paid in butter, wool, and salted lamb. Others resort to the mountains in
search of Iceland moss, which they mix with milk, and use as an article
of food; or grind it into meal, and make cakes with it, as a substitute for
bread. The labours of the women consist in preparing the fish for drying,
smoking, or salting; in tending the cattle, in knitting, and gathering
moss. During the winter season both men and women knit uninterruptedly.

Madame Pfeiffer thinks their hospitality has been overrated, and gives them
credit for the ability to make a good bargain. In fact, she saw nothing of
that disinterestedness which Dr. Henderson and other travellers have
ascribed to them. They are intolerably addicted to brandy-drinking,--indeed,
their circumstances would greatly improve if they drank less and
worked more.

They are scarcely less passionately addicted to snuff-taking, as well as
to tobacco-chewing. Their mode of taking snuff is peculiar, and certainly
not one to be imitated. Most of the peasants, and even many of the priests,
have no snuff-boxes, but make use instead of a piece of bone, turned in the
shape of a little powder- horn. When desirous of indulging in a little
titillation, they throw back their heads, and putting the point of the horn
to their nostril, empty in the snuff. So little fastidious are these
devotees, that they frequently pass on a horn from nose to nose, without
the needless formality of cleaning it.

The mention of this practice leads Madame Pfeiffer to comment very severely
on the want of cleanliness among the Icelanders, who are as dirty in
their houses as in their persons.

They are also remarkable for their laziness. There are many ample stretches
of meadow-land at a short distance from the coast, completely
covered with bog, and passable only with great precautions, which
the construction of a few ditches would thoroughly drain.

Capital grass would then spring up in abundant crops. It is well known that
such will grow in Iceland, for the hillocks which rise above the swamps
are luxuriantly overgrown with herbage and wild clover. The best soil is
found, it is said, on the north side of the island, where potatoes grow very
well, and also a few trees--which, however, do not exceed seven or eight
feet in height. The chief occupation of the northerners is cattle- breeding,
particularly in the interior, where some of the farmers own three or four
hundred sheep, ten or fifteen cows, and a dozen horses.
These, it is true, are exceptional cases; but, as a rule, the
population here are in much better circumstances than the wretched
coast-population, who chiefly rely on the products of their fisheries

.

* * * * *
From Iceland Madame Pfeiffer embarked for Copenhagen on the 29th of July, in
the sloop _Haabet_ (the "Hope"), which proved by no means a vessel of
luxurious accommodation. Our resolute voyager gives an amusing account
of her trials. The fare, for instance, was better adapted for a hermit than
for a lady of gentle nurture; but it was sublimely impartial, being exactly
the same for captain, mate, crew, and passengers. For breakfast they
had wretched tea,--or rather, dirty tea-coloured water,--which the common
hands drank without any sugar. The officers made use of a small lump of
candy, holding it in their mouths, where it melted slowly, while they
swallowed cup after cup to moisten the hard ship-biscuit and rancid
butter.

The dinners, however, showed a daily variation. First, a piece of salted
meat, which, having been soaked and boiled in sea-water, was so
intolerably hard, tough, and salt that it required the digestion of an
ostrich to overtake it. Instead of soup, vegetables, or dessert, barley
grits were served up, plainly boiled, without salt or butter, and eaten
with syrup and vinegar. On the second day, the _piece de resistance_
was a lump of bacon, boiled in salt water; this was followed by the
barley grits. On the third day, cod-fish and pease; on the fourth, the
same bill of fare as on the first; and so on,--a cup of coffee, without
milk, closing the noonday meal. The evening's repast resembled that of the
morning, consisting of tea-water and ship-biscuit.

So much for the fare. As to the "table appointments," they were miserably
meagre. The cloth was a piece of an old sail, so soiled and dirty that it
effectually deprived Madame Pfeiffer and her fellow-passengers of any small
appetite with which they might have sat down to dinner. Madame Pfeiffer
began to think that it would be better to have no cloth at all. She
was mistaken! One day she saw the steward belabouring a piece of
sailcloth, which was stretched on the deck under his feet, to receive
a good sweeping from the ship's broom. The numerous spots of dirt and
grease showed plainly that it was the table-cloth; and that same evening
the table was bare. The consequence was, that the teapot had no sooner
been placed upon it than it began to slide; and nothing but the captain's
adroitness prevented the entire "bill of fare" from being poured into
the laps of the guests. It then became evident that
A table-cloth all foul and stained Is better far than none at all!

The _Hope_ was twenty days at sea, and for twelve days out of sight of
land. She was wind-driven to the westward, so that her passengers saw but
few of the monsters of the Northern Seas. They caught sight of the spout
of a single whale in the distance; it rose in the air exactly like a
fountain-jet, but the animal itself was too far off for its huge
outlines to be discernible.

One shark had the gallantry to swim round them for a few minutes, affording
them an opportunity of observing it closely. It appeared to be from sixteen
to eighteen feet in length.

* * * * *
The "unresting" traveller reached Copenhagen on the 19th of August, and
on the very same day embarked again for Sweden and Norway.

Let us accompany her to Christiania. This town and its suburbs, the fortress,
the royal castle, the freemasons' lodge, and other buildings, surmount the
noble harbour in a stately semicircle; which, in its turn, is enclosed by
meadows, and woods, and green hills. As if loath to leave a scene so
charming, the blue sea winds in among the fields and vales to some
distance behind the town.

The best part of Christiania is, not unnaturally, the latest built, where
the streets are broad and long, and the houses, both of brick and stone,
substantial. In the suburbs, most of the houses are of timber. Some of the
public edifices are architecturally conspicuous, particularly the new
castle and the fortress, which are finely situated on a commanding
elevation, and enjoy a prospect of great extent and splendid
variety.

Madame Pfeiffer was much struck by the diverseness of the conveyances that
dash through the pleasant, breezy streets of this picturesque city.
The most common, but the least convenient, are called _carriols_. They consist
of a very long, narrow, and uncovered box, strung between two enormously
high wheels, and provided with a very small seat, into which the passenger
must squeeze himself, with outstretched feet, and a leathern apron drawn
over his legs; nor can he, nor dare he, move, from the moment he gets in
until he gets out again. A place behind is provided for the coachman, in
case the occupant of the _carriol_ is disinclined to drive; but as it is
unpleasant to have the reins shaken about one's head, and the whip constantly
flourishing in one's ears, the services of a driver are seldom in
requisition.

Besides these unshapely vehicles, there are phaetons, droschkis, chariots,
and similar light conveyances; but no covered carriages.

* * * * *
From Christiania to Stockholm.

At Gothenburg Madame Pfeiffer embarked on board the steamer which plies
on the Gotha Canal, the great water-way, linking streams and lakes,
which affords access to the Swedish capital.

She found herself before long on the River Gotha, and at Lilla Edet
came to the first of the five locks which occur there. While the boat was
passing through them she had an opportunity of seeing the Gotha Falls,
which, though of no great height, pour down a considerable volume of
water.

Through fir woods, brown with shadows, the canal winds onward to the magnificent
locks of Trollhatten--an engineering achievement of which any nation
might be justly proud.

They are eleven in number, and rise by gradations to a height of 112 feet
in a distance of 3550 feet. The wide, deep channel excavated in the rock
is literally paved with flagstones; and these locks mount one above the
other like the solitary steps of a majestic stairway, and almost lay claim
to be ranked among the world's wonders.

While the steamer passes through the successive barriers the passengers
have time to make an excursion to the falls of Trollhatten, which are less
remarkable for their elevation than for their flood of waters and the
picturesqueness of the surrounding scenery.

Beyond Trollhatten the stream expands to the proportions of a lake, while
a number of green and wooded islands divide it into several channels.
Thence it traverses the Lake of Wenner, which is ten or twelve miles
long, and proceeds onward through a country of no great interest, until
at Sjotorp it passes into the river again. A few miles further, and it
crosses the Vilkensoc, which, like all the other Swedish lakes, is
charmingly studded with islands. It lies three hundred and six feet
above the level of the North Sea, and is the culminating point of the
canal, which thence descends through about seventy locks, traversing the
Bottensee and Lake Wetter.

After a tedious journey of five days, Madame Pfeiffer reached the shores of
the Baltic, which are finely indented by bays and rivers, with long stretches
of lofty cliff, and, inland, dense masses of fir woods.

Leaving the sea again, a short canal conducts the voyager into Lake Malar,
celebrated for its cluster of islands. The lake at first resembles a
broad river, but soon widens to a great extent; the beauty of the scenery
never fails to excite the traveller's admiration. It is said that a
thousand isles besprinkle its surface; they are crowded together in the
most picturesque and varied groups, forming streams, and bays, and a chain
of smaller lakes, and continually revealing some new and attractive
feature.

Not less charming the shores: sometimes the hills and mountains pass
close to the water, and their steep and rocky sides frown like thunder-
smitten ramparts; but generally the eye is delighted by a constant and
brightly-coloured panorama of meadows, woods, and valleys, villages, and
sequestered farmhouses. On the summit of a steep declivity a high
pole is erected, to which hangs suspended the hat of the unfortunate King
Erik. It is said of him, that having fled from the field of battle, he was
here overtaken by one of his soldiers, whose stern reproaches so stung him
to the heart that he drove his spurs into his horse's sides, and clearing
the precipice with a bound, sank for ever beneath the waters of the lake.
His hat, which fell from his head as he made the plunge, is preserved
as a memorial of a king's remorse

.

* * * * *
On arriving at Stockholm, several stalwart women offer us their services as
porters. They are Dalecarlians, who earn a livelihood by carrying
luggage or water, by rowing boats, and by resorting to other occupations
generally reserved for the stronger sex. Honest, industrious, capable
of immense fatigue, they never lack employment. They wear short black
petticoats, red bodices, white chemises with long sleeves, short and narrow
aprons of two colours, red stockings, and shoes with thick wooden
soles.

       Around their heads they generally bind a handkerchief, or else wear
a very small black cap, which just covers the back of their hair.

Stockholm proves, on examination, to be a handsome city, situated at the
junction of the Baltic with the Lake Malar; or, more strictly speaking,
on the banks of a short canal which unites the two. One of its most
conspicuous buildings is the stately Ritterholm Church, which Madame Pfeiffer
describes as resembling rather a vault and an armoury than a religious
edifice. In the side chapels are enshrined the monuments of dead Swedish
kings, whose bones lie in the royal sepulchres below. On both sides
of the nave are ranged the equestrian statues of armed knights;
while from every vantage-point hang flags and standards. The keys
of captured towns and fortresses are suspended in the side chapels,
and drums and kettle-drums piled upon the floor--trophies won from
the enemies of Sweden in the days when she was a great European
power. The chapels also contain, enclosed in glass-cases, parts of
the dress and armour of some of the Swedish monarchs. We notice,
with keen interest, the uniform worn by Charles XII.--he
"Who left a name at which the world grew pale, To point a moral or
adorn a tale"--
at the time of his death, and the hat penetrated by the fatal shot
that slew the fiery warrior. A remarkable contrast is afforded by
the rich dress and plumed hat of Bernadotte, the French soldier of
fortune, who founded the present royal house.
The royal palace is a stately structure, and its interior is enriched
with the costliest decoration. The Ritter-house, the Museum of
Ancient Art, the Crown-Prince's palace, the theatre, the bank, the
mint, are all deserving of inspection. In the vicinity a trip may
be made to the beautiful and diversified scenery of the Royal Park,
or the military school at Karlberg, or to the ancient royal castle
of Gripsholm on the Lake of Malar.
But our last excursion must be directed, by way of Upsala, to the
iron- mines of Danemora.
The little village of Danemora is embosomed in woods. It contains
a small church and a few scattered houses of various dimensions.
The neighbourhood abounds in the usual indications of a mining
locality.
Madame Pfeiffer arrived in what is called "the nick of time," and
just opportunely, to witness the blasting of the ore. From the wide
opening of the largest mine it is possible to see what passes below;
and a strange and wonderful sight it is to peer down into the abyss,
four hundred and eighty feet deep, and observe the colossal entrances
to the various pits, the rocky bridges, the projections, arches,
and caverns excavated in the solid rock.He told his wife that he did not think she was
to blame for the scene on the front porch. Not being the girl's father he
could look at the matter coldly. "She's a good girl," he declared. "That
beast of a Frank Metcalf is all to blame. I daresay he followed her home.
She's upset now, but in the morning she'll tell us the story of what
happened."

The days went past and Clara said nothing. During her last week in the
house she and the two older people scarcely spoke. The young woman was in
an odd way relieved. Every evening she went to dine with Kate Chanceller
who, when she heard the story of the afternoon in the suburb and the
incident on the porch, went off without Clara's knowing of it and had a
talk with Henderson Woodburn in his office. After the talk the manufacturer
was puzzled and just a little afraid of both Clara and her friend. He tried
to tell his wife about it, but was not very clear. "I can't make it out,"
he said. "She is the kind of woman I can't understand, that Kate. She says
Clara wasn't to blame for what happened between her and Frank Metcalf, but
don't want to tell us the story, because she thinks young Metcalf wasn't to
blame either." Although he had been respectful and courteous as he listened
to Kate's talk, he grew angry when he tried to tell his wife what she had
said. "I'm afraid it was just a lot of mixed up nonsense," he declared.
"It makes me glad we haven't a daughter. If neither of them were to blame
what were they up to? What's getting the matter with the women of the
new generation? When you come down to it what's the matter with Kate
Chanceller?"

The plow manufacturer advised his wife to say nothing to Clara. "Let's wash
our hands of it," he suggested. "She'll go home in a few days now and we
will say nothing about her coming back next year. Let's be polite, but act
as though she didn't exist."

Clara accepted the new attitude of her uncle and aunt without comment. In
the afternoon she did not come home from the University but went to Kate's
apartment. The brother came home and after dinner played on the piano. At
ten o'clock Clara started home afoot and Kate accompanied her. The two
women went out of their way to sit on a bench in a park. They talked of
a thousand hidden phases of life Clara had hardly dared think of before.
During all the rest of her life she thought of those last weeks in Columbus
as the most deeply satisfactory time she ever lived through. In the
Woodburn house she was uncomfortable because of the silence and the hurt,
offended look on her aunt's face, but she did not spend much time there.
In the morning Henderson Woodburn ate his breakfast alone at seven, and
clutching his ever present portfolio of papers, was driven off to the plow
factory. Clara and her aunt had a silent breakfast at eight, and then
Clara also hurried away. "I'll be out for lunch and will go to Kate's for
dinner," she said as she went out of her aunt's presence, and she said it,
not with the air of one asking permission as had been her custom before the
Frank Metcalf incident, but as one having the right to dispose of her own
time. Only once did her aunt break the frigid air of offended dignity she
had assumed. One morning she followed Clara to the front door, and as she
watched her go down the steps from the front porch to the walk that led to
the street, called to her. Some faint recollection of a time of revolt in
her own youth perhaps came to her. Tears came into her eyes. To her the
world was a place of terror, where wolf-like men prowled about seeking
women to devour, and she was afraid something dreadful would happen to her
niece. "If you don't want to tell me anything, it's all right," she said
bravely, "but I wish you felt you could." When Clara turned to look at her,
she hastened to explain. "Mr. Woodburn said I wasn't to bother you about it
and I won't," she added quickly. Nervously folding and unfolding her arms,
she turned to stare up the street with the air of a frightened child that
looks into a den of beasts. "O Clara, be a good girl," she said. "I know
you're grown up now, but, O Clara, do be careful! Don't get into trouble."

The Woodburn house in Columbus, like the Butterworth house in the country
south of Bidwell, sat on a hill. The street fell away rather sharply as one
went toward the business portion of the city and the street car line, and
on the morning when her aunt spoke to her and tried with her feeble hands
to tear some stones out of the wall that was being built between them,
Clara hurried along the street under the trees, feeling as though she would
like also to weep. She saw no possibility of explaining to her aunt the new
thoughts she was beginning to have about life and did not want to hurt her
by trying. "How can I explain my thoughts when they're not clear in my own
mind, when I am myself just groping blindly about?" she asked herself. "She
wants me to be good," she thought. "What would she think if I told her that
I had come to the conclusion that, judging by her standards, I have been
altogether too good? What's the use trying to talk to her when I would only
hurt her and make things harder than ever?" She got to a street crossing
and looked back. Her aunt was still standing at the door of her house and
looking at her. There was something soft, small, round, insistent, both
terribly weak and terribly strong about the completely feminine thing she
had made of herself or that life had made of her. Clara shuddered. She did
not make a symbol of the figure of her aunt and her mind did not form
a connection between her aunt's life and what she had become, as Kate
Chanceller's mind would have done. She saw the little, round, weeping woman
as a boy, walking in the tree-lined streets of a town, sees suddenly the
pale face and staring eyes of a prisoner that looks out at him through
the iron bars of a town jail. Clara was startled as the boy would be
startled and, like the boy, she wanted to run quickly away. "I must think
of something else and of other kinds of women or I'll get things terribly
distorted," she told herself. "If I think of her and women like her I'll
grow afraid of marriage, and I want to be married as soon as I can find the
right man. It's the only thing I can do. What else is there a woman can
do?"

As Clara and Kate walked about in the evening, they talked continually of
the new position Kate believed women were on the point of achieving in the
world. The woman who was so essentially a man wanted to talk of marriage
and to condemn it, but continually fought the impulse in herself. She knew
that were she to let herself go she would say many things that, while they
might be true enough as regards herself, would not necessarily be true of
Clara. "Because I do not want to live with a man or be his wife is not very
good proof that the institution is wrong. It may be that I want to keep
Clara for myself. I think more of her than of any one else I've ever met.
How can I think straight about her marrying some man and becoming dulled to
the things that mean most to me?" she asked herself. One evening, when the
women were walking from Kate's apartment to the Woodburn house, they were
accosted by two men who wanted to walk with them. There was a small park
nearby and Kate led the men to it. "Come," she said, "we won't walk with
you, but you may sit with us here on a bench." The men sat down beside them
and the older one, a man with a small black mustache, made some remark
about the fineness of the night. The younger man who sat beside Clara
looked at her and laughed. Kate at once got down to business. "Well, you
wanted to walk with us: what for?" she asked sharply. She explained what
they had been doing. "We were walking and talking of women and what they
were to do with their lives," she explained. "We were expressing opinions,
you see. I don't say either of us had said anything that was very wise, but
we were having a good time and trying to learn something from each other.
Now what have you to say to us? You interrupted our talk and wanted to walk
with us: what for? You wanted to be in our company: now tell us what you've
got to contribute. You can't just come and walk with us like dumb things.
What have you got to offer that you think will make it worth while for us
to break up our conversation with each other and spend the time talking
with you?"

The older man, he of the mustache, turned to look at Kate, then got up from
the bench. He walked a little away and then turned and made a sign with his
hand to his companion. "Come on," he said, "let's get out of here. We're
wasting our time. It's a cold trail. They're a couple of highbrows. Come
on, let's be on our way."

The two women again walked along the street. Kate could not help feeling
somewhat proud of the way in which she had disposed of the men. She talked
of it until they got to the door of the Woodburn house, and, as she went
away along the street Clara thought she swaggered a little. She stood by
the door and watched her friend until she had disappeared around a corner.
A flash of doubt of the infallibility of Kate's method with men crossed her
mind. She remembered suddenly the soft brown eyes of the younger of the two
men in the park and wondered what was back of the eyes. Perhaps after all,
had she been alone with him, the man might have had something to say quite
as much to the point as the things she and Kate had been saying to each
other. The tiger and the panther are not nomads on rocky plains, like the
antelope. I landed, notwithstanding, promptly and visited the scene.

       Sure enough, there was a young heifer lying on its side, with the
unmistakable deep pits where the jaws of the panther had gripped
its throat, and a gory cavity where it had selected a gigot for its
dinner.

Round the corpse the villagers had arranged a circular fence of thorns,
with one opening, across which they had stretched a cord, attached at the
other end to the trigger of an old shooting iron of some sort, charged
with slugs and looking hard at the opening. The gun had gone off during the
night, and the ground was soaked with blood. A few yards off there was another
great swamp of blood. The beast had staggered away and lain down for a
while, faint and sick. Then it had got up and crawled home, still dripping
with blood, by which we tracked it for a good distance, but the trace grew
gradually fainter and at last ceased altogether.

"It has gone to the fort," said the men--"bags always go to the fort." I
pointed out that, if it had meant to go to the fort, it would have gone
towards the fort, instead of in another direction; but the argument
did not move them. "The fort is a jungle, and where else should a 'bag'
take refuge but in a jungle?" However, I was obstinate, and pursued the
original direction until we arrived at the brow of the hill, where it sloped
steeply down to the sea. The whole slope, for half a mile, was covered
with a dense scrub of Lantana bushes.

This is another plant introduced in some by-gone century from South America,
and planted first in gardens for its profuse clusters of red and pink
verbena-like blossoms (it is a near relation of the garden verbena), whence
it has spread like the rabbit in New Zealand, and become a nuisance.
"There," I cried, pointing at the scrub, "there, without doubt, your
wounded 'bag' is lying."
Some of the men, unbelieving still, were amusing themselves by rolling
large stones down the slope, when suddenly there was a sound of scrambling,
and across an opening in the scrub, in sight of us all, a huge hyaena
scurried away "on three legs." I sent a man post-haste for my rifle, which
I had not brought with me, never expecting to require it until a regular
campaign could be arranged. As soon as it arrived, we formed in line and
advanced, throwing stones in all directions.

Make no offering of admiration at the shrine of our hardihood, for we
were in no peril. Among carnivorous beasts there is not a more contemptible
poltroon than the hyaena, even when wounded. A friend of mine once tied
up a billy goat as a bait for a panther and sat up over it in a
tree.

In the middle of the night a hyaena nosed it from afar, and came sneaking
up in the rear, for hyaenas love the flesh of goats next to that of dogs.
But the goat saw it, and, turning about bravely, presented his horned
front. This the hyaena could not find stomach to face. For two hours he
manoeuvred to take the goat in rear, but it turned as he circled, and
stood up to him stoutly till the dawn came, and my friend cut short its
disreputable career with a bullet.

To return to my story, we had not gone far when, on a lower level, not many
yards from me, I was suddenly confronted by that repulsive, ghoulish
physiognomy which can never be forgotten when once seen, the smoky-black
snout, broad forehead and great upstanding ears. Instantly the beast wheeled
and scrambled over a bank, receiving a hasty rear shot which, as I
afterwards found, left it but one limb to go with, for the bullet passed
clean through a hindleg and lodged in a foreleg. It went on, however, and
some time passed before I descried it far off dragging itself painfully
across an open space.

A careful shot finished it, and it died under a thick bush, where we
found it and dragged it out. It proved to be a large male, measuring 4
feet 7 inches, from which something over a foot must be deducted for
its shabby tail.

The natives all maintained still that their cow had been killed by a
panther, saying that the hyaena had come on the second night, after their
manner, to fill its base belly with the leavings. And there was some
circumstantial evidence in favour of this view. In the first place, I never
heard of a hyaena having the audacity to attack a cow; in the second, the
tooth-marks on the cow showed that it had been executed according to the
tradition of all the great cats--by seizing its throat and breaking its
neck; and in the third, a hyaena, sitting down to such a meal, would
certainly have begun with calf's head and crunched up every bone of
the skull before thinking of sirloin or rumpsteak. But the absurdity of a
panther being found in such a region outweighed all this and I
scoffed.

I was yet to learn a lesson in humility out of this adventure. Two years
later I sailed over the bar and dropped anchor at the same spot. I was
met with the intelligence that on the previous evening two panthers had
been seen sitting on the brow of the hill and gazing at the beauties of the
fading sunset, as wild beasts are so fond of doing. A night or two later
a cow was attacked in a neighbouring field, and, staggering into the
village, fell down and died in a narrow alley between two houses.
The panther followed and prowled about all night, but the villagers, hammering
at their doors with sticks, scared it from its meal.

I at once had a nest put up in a small tree, and took my position
in it at sunset.

The common people in India do not waste much money on lamp oil, preferring
to sleep during the hours appointed by Nature for the purpose, so it was
not long before all doors were securely barred and quietness reigned.
Then the mosquitoes awoke and came to inquire for me, the little bats
(how I blessed them!) wheeled about my head, the night-jar called to his
fellow, and the little owls sat on a branch together and talked to each
other about me. Hour after hour passed, and it became too dark in that
narrow alley to see a panther if it had come.
So I came down and got to my boat. The panther was engaged a mile away dining
on another cow! On further inquiry I learned that there was some good
forest a day's journey distant, and it was quite the fashion among the
panthers of that place to spend a weekend occasionally at a spot so
full of all delights as this dark, jungle-smothered fort.

XIV

THE PURBHOO
I do not believe that the Member of Parliament who moved the adjournment of
the House to consider the culpable carelessness of the Government of India
in allowing the Rajah of Muttighur to fall into the moat of his own castle
when he was drunk, could have told you what a Purbhoo is, not though you had
spelled it Prabhu, so that he could find it in his _Gazetteer_.

Of course he saw hundreds of them during that Christmas which he spent in
the East before he wrote his book; but then he took them all for Brahmins.
He never noticed that the curve of their turbans was not the same, and the
idol mark on their foreheads was quite different, nor even that their
shoes were not forked at the toes, but ended in a sharp point curled
upwards. And if he did not see these things which were on the surface,
what could he know of matters that lie deeper?

Now the first and most important thing to be known respecting the
Purbhoo, the fundamental fact of him, is that he is not a Brahmin. If he
were a Brahmin, one essential piece of our administrative apparatus in
India would be wanting, and without it the whole machinery would assuredly
go out of order. Nor is it easy to see how we could replace him. Not
one of the other castes would serve even as a makeshift. They are all too
far removed from the Brahmin. But the Purbhoo is near him, irritatingly
near him, and he has proved in practice to be just the sort of homoeopathic
remedy we require, the counter-irritant, the outward blister by wise
application of which we can keep down the internal inflammation.

In speaking of the Brahmin as an inflammation in the body politic I disown
all offensive and invidious implications. I am only using a convenient
simile. You may reverse it if you like and make the disease stand for the
Purbhoo, in which case the Brahmin will be the blister.
Which way fits the facts best will depend upon which caste chances at
the time to be nearest to the vitals of Government.

The case stands thus. Before the days of British rule the Brahmin was the
priest and man of letters, the "clerke" in short. The rajahs and chiefs
were much of the same mind as old Douglas:

Thanks to Saint Bothan son of mine, Save Gawain, ne'er could pen a line,

Gawain being a bishop. As a Mohammedan gentleman related to one of the
ruling Indian princes put the matter when speaking to me a few years ago,
"In those days none of us could write. Our pen was the sword. If any
writing had to be done the Brahmin was called in." And no doubt he did
excellent service, being diligent, astute, and withal pliant and diplomatic.
If to these qualities he added ambition, he might, and often did, become a
Cardinal Wolsey in the state. In Poona, for example, the Brahmin Prime
Minister gradually overshadowed the Mahratta king, and the descendant of
Shivajee was put on a back shelf as Rajah of Sattara, while the Peishwa
ruled at the capital.

Of course this carnal advancement was not gained without some sacrifice
of his spiritual character, and the "secular" Brahmin had to bow, _quoad
sacra_, to the penniless Bhut, or "regular" Brahmin, who, refusing to
contaminate his sanctity by doing any kind of work, ate of the temple,
or lived by royal bounty or private charity, and by the free breakfasts
without which a marriage, "thread ceremony" or funeral in a
gentleman's house could not be respectably celebrated.

Idleness and sanctity are a powerful combination, and it is written in
the _shastras_ that every day in which a holy man does no work for his
bread, but lives by begging, is equal in the eyes of the gods to a day
spent in fasting; so, though the prospect of power and wealth might tempt
a few restless and wayward spirits, the great mass of the Brahmin caste
clung to the sacred calling.

All this time the Purbhoo was in the land, but insignificant. He had no
sacred calling. Tradition assigned him a hybrid origin. He could not
presume to be a warrior, because his mother was a _shoodra_, nor could he
condescend to be a farmer, for his father was a _kshutriya_. So the gods
had given him the pen, and he was a writer--not a secretary, but a humble
quill-driver. But when the Portuguese and then the British came upon the
scene, not ruling by word of mouth, like the native rajahs, but inditing
their orders and keeping records, the Purbhoo saw an open door and went
in.

Then the Brahmin woke up, for he saw that he was in evil case. The spirit
of the British _raj_ was falling like a blight and a pestilence upon the
means by which he had lived, drying up the fountains of religious revenue
and slowly but surely blighting the luxuriance of that pious liberality
which always took the form of feeding holy men. He found that he must
work for his bread whether he liked it or not, and the only implement of
secular work that would not soil his priestly hand was the pen. And this
was already taken up by the Purbhoo, who carried himself haughtily under
the new _regime_ and showed no mind to make way for the holier man. Hence
sprang those bitter enmities and jealousies which have done so much to
lighten the difficulties of our position.

The British Government has often been accused of acting on the maxim, _Divide
et impera_. It is a libel. We do not divide, for there is no need. Division
is already there. We have only to rejoice and rule. How well and justly
we rule all the world knows, but only the initiated know how much we owe to
the fact that the talents and energies which would otherwise be employed in
thwarting our just intentions and phlebotomising the ryot are largely
preoccupied with the more useful work of thwarting and undermining each
other.

What could a collector do single-handed against a host of clerks and
subordinate magistrates and petty officials of every grade, all armed
with the awfulness of a heaven-born sanctity, all hedged round with the
prestige of an ancient supremacy, endowed with a mole-like genius for
underground work which the Englishman never fathoms, and all leagued
together to suck to the uttermost the life blood of those inferior castes
which were created expressly for their advantage?

_He_ is working in a foreign language, among customs and ways of thought
which it takes a lifetime to understand: _they_ are using their mother tongue
and handling matters that they have known from childhood. _He_ cannot
tell a lie and is ashamed to deceive: _they_ are trained in a thrifty
policy which saves the truth for a last resort in case everything else
should fail. He would be helpless in their hands as a sucking child. But
he knows they will do for him what he cannot do for himself. The Purbhoo
will lie in wait for the Brahmin, and the Brahmin will keep his lynx eye
on the Purbhoo. And woe to the one who trips first. So the collector arranges
his men with judicious skill to the fostering of each other's virtue, and
the result is most gratifying.

The country blesses his administration, and his subordinates are equally
surprised and delighted at their own integrity.

I speak of a wise and able administrator. There are men in the Indian
Civil Service who are neither wise nor able, and some who are not
administrators at all, having most unhappily mistaken their vocation.
When such a one becomes collector of a district his _chitnis_, or chief
secretary, sees that that tide in the affairs of men has come which,
"taken at the flood, leads on to fortune," and his caste-fellows
all through the service are filled with unholy joy.

But he does nothing rash or hasty.

Wilily and patiently he goes to work to make his own foundation sure first
of all. He studies his chief under all conditions, discovers his little
foibles and vanities and feeds them sedulously. He masters codes, rules
and regulations, standing orders, precedents and past correspondence,
till it is dangerous to contradict him and always safe to trust him.
In every difficulty he is at hand, clearing away perplexity and refreshing
the "swithering" mind with his precision and assurance. He becomes
indispensable.

The collector reposes absolute confidence in him and is proud to say so
in his reports.

Then the _chitnis_, if he is a Brahmin, addresses himself to the task of
eliminating the Purbhoo from the service, or at least depriving him of
place and power. It is a delicate task, but the Brahmin's touch is
light. He never disparages a Purbhoo from that day; "damning with faint
praise" is safer and as effectual. He practises the charity which covereth
a multitude of faults, but he leaves a tag end of one peeping out to attract
curiosity, and if the collector asks questions, he is candid and tells the
truth, though with manifest reluctance. Then he grapples with the gradation
lists, which have fallen into confusion, and puts them into such excellent
order that the collector can see at a glance every man's past services
and present claims to promotion. And from these lists it appears that
clearly, whenever any vacancy has to be filled, a Brahmin has the first
claim. And so, as the shades of night yield to the dawn of day, the Purbhoo
by degrees fades away and disappears, and the star of the Brahmin rises and
shines everywhere with still increasing splendour.

But the Purbhoo possesses his soul in patience, and keeps a note of every
slip that the Brahmin makes. For the next _chitnis_ may be a Purbhoo,
and then the day of reckoning will come and old scores will be paid
off. The Brahmin knows that too, and the thought of it makes him walk
warily even in the day of his prosperity. Thus our administration is saved
from utter corruption.

XV

THE COCONUT TREE
Among the classic fairy-tales which passed like shooting stars across those
dark hours of our boyhood in which we wrestled with the grim rudiments
of Latin and Greek, and which abide in the memory after nearly all that
they helped to brighten has passed away, there was one which related to a
contest between Neptune and Minerva as to which should confer the greatest
benefit on the human race. Neptune first struck his trident on the ground
(or was it on the waves? "Eheu fugaces"--no, that also is gone), and
there sprang forth a noble steed, pawing the ground, terrible in war
and no less useful in peace. Then the watery god leaned back and smiled as
if he would say, "Now, beat that." But the Goddess of Wisdom brought out
of the earth a modest, dark tree bearing olives and, in classic phrase,
"took the cake," Oriental mythology is more luxuriant and fantastic than
that of the West, but I do not know if it has any legend parallel to this.
If it has, then I am sure the palm is awarded to the deity who gave to the
human race the tree that bears the coconut.

Passing a confectioner's shop, I saw a tempting packet labelled "Cokernut
Toffee." I bought a pennyworth and gave it to my little girl, and
"I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge."
How many boys and girls are there in this kingdom to whom the word coconut
connotes an ingredient which goes to the making of a very toothsome
sweetie? And how many confectioners and shop girls are there whose idea is
no broader? Again:

"I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, And merrie sang the Birde
as she sat upon the spraye."
And I said, "Little Bird, what do you know of the coconut?" And it made answer,
"It is a cup full of food, rich and sweet, which kind hands hang out for
me in winter," How narrow may be the key-hole through which we take our
outlook on things human and divine, never doubting that we see the whole!
In our own British Empire, only a few thousand miles away, sits a
mild Hindu, almost unclad and wholly unlettered, to whom the tree that
bore the fruit that flavoured the toffee that my little girl is enjoying
seems to be one of the predominating tints of the whole landscape of life.
It puts a roof over his head, it lightens his darkness, it helps to feed
his body, it furnishes the wine that maketh glad his heart and the oil
that causeth his face to shine, and time would fail me to tell of all the
other things that it does for him. As a type and symbol, it is always
about him, spanning the sunshine and shower of life with bows of hope.

The coconut tree is a palm, and has nothing to do with cocoa of the breakfast
table. That word is a perversion of "cacao," and came to us from Mexico:
the other is the Portuguese word "coco," which means a nut.
It is what Vasco da Gama called the thing when he first saw it, and the
word, with our English translation added, has stuck to it. The tree is,
I need scarcely say, a palm, one of many kinds that flourish in India.
But none of them can be ranked with it. The rough date palm makes dense
groves on sandy plains, but brings no fruit to perfection, pining for
something which only Arabia can supply; the strong but unprofitable
"brab," or fan palm, rises on rocky hills, the beautiful fish-tailed palm
in forests solitarily, while the "areca" rears its tall, smooth
stem and delicate head in gardens and supplies millions with a
solace more indispensable than tobacco or tea.

But the coconut loves a sandy soil and the salt breath of the sea and the
company of its own kind. The others grow erect as a mast, but the
gentle coconuts lean on the wind and mingle the waving of their sisterly
arms, casting a grateful shade on the humble folk who live under their
blessing.

To the mariner sailing by India's coral strand that country presents the
aspect of an endless beach of shell sand, quite innocent of coral, on which
the surf breaks continually into dazzling white foam against a dark background
of pensive palms. He might naturally suppose that they had grown up of
themselves, like the screw-pines and aloes which sometimes share the beach
with them; but that would be a great mistake.
Everyone of them has been planted and carefully watered for years and manured
annually with fresh foliage of forest trees buried in a moat round the
root. And so it grew in stature, but not in girth, until its head was
sixty, seventy or even eighty feet above the ground, and a hundred nuts
of various sizes hung in bunches from long, shiny, green arms, each as
thick as a man's, which had thrust themselves out from between the lower
fronds.
There is no production of Nature that I know of less negotiable
than a coconut as the tree presents it. The man who first showed
the way into it deserved a place in mythology with Prometheus, Jason
and other heroes of the dawn. There is a crab, I know, which lives
on coconuts, enjoying the scientific name of _Birgus latro_, the
Burglar; but it seems to be a special invention, as big as a cat
and armed with two fearful pairs of pincers in front for rending
the outside casings of the fruits, and a more delicate tool on its
hind-legs for picking out the meat. Other animals have to do without
it, as had man, I opine, in the stone and copper ages. With the
iron age came a chopper, called in Western India a "koita," with
which he can hack his way through most of the obstructions of life.
When, with this, he has slashed off the tough outer rind and the
inch-thick packing of agglutinated fibres, like metal wires, he has
only to crack the hard shell which contains the kernel.
How little we can conceive the spaces in his life that would be
empty without that firm pulp, at once nutritious, sweet and fragrant!
Curry cannot be made without it, the cook cannot advance three steps
in its absence, pattimars laden with it are sailing north, south,
east and west, a thousand creaky wooden mills are squeezing the
limpid oil out of it, a hundred thousand little earthen lamps filled
with that oil are making visible the smoky darkness of hut and
temple, brightening the wedding feast and illuminating the sad page
over which the candidate for university honours nods his shaven
head. That oil fed lighthouses of the first order and illuminated
viceregal balls and durbars before paraffin and kerosene inundated
the earth. And it has other uses. For arresting premature baldness
and preventing the hair turning grey its virtues are equalled by
no other oil known to us, and there is a fortune awaiting the
hairdresser who can find means effectually to remove or suppress
its peculiar and penetrating odour. Joao Gomez, my faithful "boy,"
did not object to the odour, and when he had been tempted to pass
my comb through his raven locks as he was dusting my dressing table,
I always knew it.
When the white kernel has been turned to account, the utilities of
the coconut are not exhausted. The shell, neatly bisected, makes a
pair of teacups, and either of these, fitted with a wooden handle,
makes a handy spoon. Laurenco de Gama demands one or two of these
inexpensive spoons to complete the furnishing of my kitchen. As for
the obstinate casing that wraps the coconut shell, it is an article
of commerce. It must first be soaked for some months in a pit on
the slimy bank of the backwater, until all the stuff that holds it
together in a stiff and obdurate mass has rotted away and set free
those hard and smooth fibres which nothing can rot.When one of the teamsters who had come to town with the
boom came with a heavy work harness on his shoulder, he went to meet him.
The harness was thrown with a rattling crash on the floor and Jim examined
it. "Oh, the devil, that's an easy job," he declared. "We'll fix that up in
a jiffy. You can have it to-morrow afternoon if you want it."

For a time Jim made it a practice to come to where Joe stood at work at his
bench and consult with him regarding prices to be charged for work. Then he
returned to the customer and charged more than Joe had suggested. After a
few weeks he slopped consulting Joe at all. "You're no good," he exclaimed,
laughing. "What you're doing in business I don't know." The old harness
maker stared at him for a minute and then went to his bench and to work.
"Business," he muttered, "what do I know about business? I'm a harness
maker, I am."

After Jim came to work for him, Joe made in one year almost twice the
amount he had lost in the failure of the plant-setting machine factory. The
money was not invested in stock of any factory but lay in the bank. Still
he was not happy. All day Jim Gibson, whom Joe had never dared tell the
tales of his triumph as a workman and to whom he did not brag as he had
formerly done to his apprentices, talked of his ability to get the best of
customers. He had, he declared, managed, in the last place he had worked
before he came to Bidwell, to sell a good many sets of harness as handmade
that were in reality made in a factory. "It isn't like the old times," he
said, "things are changing. We used to sell harness only to farmers or to
teamsters right in our towns who owned their own horses. We always knew the
men we did business with and always would know them. Now it's different.
The men now, you see, who are here in this town to work--well, next month
or next year they'll be somewhere else. All they care about you and me is
how much work they can get for a dollar. Of course they talk big about
honesty and all that stuff, but that's only their guff. They think maybe
we'll fall for it and they'll get more for the money they pay out. That's
what they're up to."

Jim tried hard to make his version of how the shop should be run clear
to his employer. Every day he talked for hours regarding the matter. He
tried to get Joe to put in a stock of factory-made harness and when he was
unsuccessful was angry. "O the devil," he cried. "Can't you understand what
you're up against? The factories are bound to win. For why? Look here,
there can't any one but some old moss-back who has worked around horses all
his life tell the difference between hand- and machine-sewed harness. The
machine-made can be sold cheaper. It looks all right and the factories are
able to put on a lot of do-dads. That catches the young fellows. It's good
business. Quick sales and profits, that's the story." Jim laughed and then
said something that made the shivers run up and down Joe's back. "If I had
the money and was steady I'd start a shop in this town and show you up," he
said. "I'd pretty near run you out. The trouble with me is I wouldn't stick
to business if I had the money. I tried it once and made money; then when
I got a little ahead I shut up the shop and went on a big drunk. I was no
good for a month. When I work for some one else I'm all right. I get drunk
on Saturdays and that satisfies me. I like to work and scheme for money,
but it ain't any good to me when I get it and never will be. What I want
you to do here is to shut your eyes and give me a chance. That's all I ask.
Just shut your eyes and give me a chance."

All day Joe sat astride his harness maker's horse, and when he was not
at work, stared out through a dirty window into an alleyway and tried to
understand Jim's idea of what a harness maker's attitude should be toward
his customers, now that new times had come. He felt very old. Although Jim
was as old in years lived as himself, he seemed very young. He began to be
a little afraid of the man. He could not understand why the money, nearly
twenty-five hundred dollars he had put in the bank during the two years Jim
had been with him, seemed so unimportant and the twelve hundred dollars he
had earned slowly after twenty years of work seemed so important. As there
was much repair work always waiting to be done in the shop, he did not go
home to lunch, but every day carried a few sandwiches to the shop in his
pocket. At the noon hour, when Jim had gone to his boarding-house, he was
alone, and if no one came in, he was happy. It seemed to him the best time
of the day. Every few minutes he went to the front door to look out. The
quiet Main Street, on which his shop had faced since he was a young man
just come home from his trade adventures, and which had always been such a
sleepy place at the noon hour in the summer, was now like a battle-field
from which an army had retreated. A great gash had been cut in the street
where the new sewer was to be laid. Swarms of workingmen, most of them
strangers, had come into Main Street from the factories by the railroad
tracks. They stood in groups in lower Main Street by Wymer's tobacco store.
Some of them had gone into Ben Head's saloon for a glass of beer and came
out wiping their mustaches. The men who were digging the sewer, foreign
men, Italians he had heard, sat on the banks of dry earth in the middle of
the street. Their dinner pails were held between their legs and as they ate
they talked in a strange language. He remembered the day he had come to
Bidwell with his bride, the girl he had met on his trade journey and who
had waited for him until he had mastered his trade and had a shop of his
own. He had gone to New York State to get her and had arrived back in
Bidwell at noon on just such another summer day. There had not been many
people about, but every one had known him. On that day every one had been
his friend. Birdie Spinks rushed out of his drug store and had insisted
that he and his bride go home to dinner with him. Every one had wanted them
to come to his house for dinner. It had been a happy, joyous time.

The harness maker had always been sorry his wife had borne him no children.
He had said nothing and had always pretended he did not want them and now,
at last, he was glad they had not come. He went back to his bench and to
work, hoping Jim would be late in getting back from lunch. The shop was
very quiet after the activity of the street that had so bewildered him. It
was, he thought, like a retreat, almost like a church when you went to the
door and looked in on a week day. He had done that once and had liked the
empty silent church better than he did a church with a preacher and a lot
of people in it. He had told his wife about the matter. "It was like the
shop in the evening when I've got a job of work done and the boy has gone
home," he had said.

The harness maker looked out through the open door of his shop and saw Tom
Butterworth and Steve Hunter going along Main Street, engaged in earnest
conversation. Steve had a cigar stuck in the corner of his mouth and Tom
had on a fancy vest. He thought again of the money he had lost in the
plant-setting machine venture and was furious. The noon hour was spoiled
and he was almost glad when Jim came back from his mid-day meal.

The position in which he found himself in the shop amused Jim Gibson. He
chuckled to himself as he waited on the customers who came in, and as he
worked at the bench. One day when he came back along Main Street from
the noon meal, he decided to try an experiment. "If I lose my job what
difference does it make?" he asked himself. He stopped at a saloon and had
a drink of whisky. When he got to the shop he began to scold his employer,
to threaten him as though he were his apprentice. Swaggering suddenly in,
he walked to where Joe was at work and slapped him roughly on the back.
"Come, cheer up, old daddy," he said. "Get the gloom out of you. I'm tired
of your muttering and growling at things."

The employee stepped back and watched his employer. Had Joe ordered him out
of the shop he would not have been surprised, and as he said later when he
told Ben Head's bartender of the incident, would not have cared very much.
The fact that he did not care, no doubt saved him. Joe was frightened. For
just a moment he was so angry he could not speak, and then he remembered
that if Jim left him he would have to wait on trade and would have to
dicker with the strange teamsters regarding the repairing of the work
harness. Bending over the bench he worked for an hour in silence. Then,
instead of demanding an explanation of the rude familiarity with which Jim
had treated him, he began to explain. "Now look here, Jim," he pleaded,
"don't you pay any attention to me. You do as you please here. Don't you
pay any attention to me."

Jim said nothing, but a smile of triumph lit up his face. Late in the
afternoon he left the shop. "If any one comes in, tell them to wait. I
won't be gone very long," he said insolently. Jim went into Ben Head's
saloon and told the bartender how his experiment had come out. The story
was later told from store to store up and down the Main Street of Bidwell.
"He was like a boy who has been caught with his hand in the jam pot," Jim
explained. "I can't think what's the matter with him. Had I been in his,
shoes I would have kicked Jim Gibson out of the shop. He told me not to
pay any attention to him and to run the shop as I pleased. Now what do you
think of that? Now what do you think of that for a man who owns his own
shop and has money in the bank? I tell you, I don't know how it is, but I
don't work for Joe any more. He works for me. Some day you come in the shop
casual-like and I'll boss him around for you. I'm telling you I don't know
how it is that it come about, but I'm the boss of the shop as sure as the
devil."

All of Bidwell was looking at itself and asking itself questions. Ed Hall,
who had been a carpenter's apprentice earning but a few dollars a week with
his master, Ben Peeler, was now foreman in the corn-cutter factory and
received a salary of twenty-five dollars every Saturday night. It was
more money than he had ever dreamed of earning in a week. On pay nights
he dressed himself in his Sunday clothes and had himself shaved at Joe
Trotter's barber shop. Then he went along Main Street, fingering the money
in his pocket and half fearing he would suddenly awaken and find it all a
dream. He went into Wymer's tobacco store to get a cigar, and old Claude
Wymer came to wait on him. On the second Saturday evening after he got his
new position, the tobacconist, a rather obsequious man, called him Mr.
Hall. It was the first time such a thing had happened and it upset him a
little. He laughed and made a joke of it. "Don't get high and mighty," he
said, and turned to wink at the men loafing in the shop. Later he thought
about the matter and was sorry he had not accepted the new title without
protest. "Well, I'm foreman, and a lot of the young fellows I've always
known and fooled around with will be working under me," he told himself. "I
can't be getting thick with them."

Ed walked along the street feeling very keenly the importance of his new
place in the community. Other young fellows in the factory were getting a
dollar and a half a day. At the end of the week he got twenty-five dollars,
almost three times as much. The money was an indication of superiority.
There could be no doubt about that. Ever since he had been a boy he had
heard older men speak respectfully of men who possessed money. "Get on
in the world," they said to young men, when they talked seriously. Among
themselves they did not pretend that they did not want money. "It's money
makes the mare go," they said.

Down Main Street to the New York Central tracks Ed went, and then turned
out of the street and disappeared into the station. The evening train had
passed and the place was deserted. He went into the dimly lighted
waiting-room. An oil lamp, turned low, and fastened by a bracket to the
wall made a little circle of light in a corner. The room was like a church
in the early morning of a wintry day, cold and still. He went hurriedly
to the light, and taking the roll of money from his pocket, counted it.
Then he went out of the room and along the station platform almost to Main
Street, but was not satisfied. On an impulse he returned to the waiting
room again and, late in the evening on his way home, he stopped there for a
final counting of the money before he went to bed.

Peter Fry was a blacksmith and had a son who was clerk in the Bidwell
Hotel. He was a tall young fellow with curly yellow hair and watery blue
eyes and smoked cigarettes, a habit that was an offense to the nostrils of
the men of his times. His name was Jacob, but he was called in derision
Fizzy Fry. The young man's mother was dead and he got his meals at the
hotel and at night slept on a cot in the hotel office. He had a passion for
gayly colored neckties and waistcoats and was forever trying unsuccessfully
to attract the attention of the town girls. When he and his father met on
the street, they did not speak to each other. Sometimes the father stopped
and stared at his son. "How did I happen to be the father of a thing like
that?" he muttered aloud.

The blacksmith was a square-shouldered, heavily built man with a bushy
black beard and a tremendous voice. When he was a young man he sang in the
Methodist choir, but after his wife died he stopped going to church and
began putting his voice to other uses. He smoked a short clay pipe that had
become black with age and that at night could not be seen against his black
curly beard. Smoke rolled out of his mouth in clouds and appeared to come
up out of his belly. He was like a volcanic mountain and was called, by the
men who loafed in Birdie Spinks' drug store, Smoky Pete.

Smoky Pete was in more ways than one like a mountain given to eruptions. He
did not get drunk, but after his wife died he got into the habit of having
two or three drinks of whisky every evening. The whisky inflamed his mind
and he strode up and down Main Street, ready to quarrel with any one his
eye lighted upon. He got into the habit of roaring at his fellow citizens
and making ribald jokes at their expense. Every one was a little afraid
of him and he became in an odd way the guardian of the town morals. Sandy
Ferris, a house painter, became a drunkard and did not support his family.
Smoky Pete abused him in the public streets and in the sight of all men.
"You cheap thing, warming your belly with whisky while jour children
freeze, why don't you try being a man?" he shouted at the house painter,
who staggered into a side street and went to sleep off his intoxication in
a stall in Clyde Neighbors' livery barn. The blacksmith kept at the painter
until the whole town took up his cry and the saloons became ashamed to
accept his custom. He was forced to reform.

The blacksmith did not, however, discriminate in the choice of victims. His
was not the spirit of the reformer. I would patiently watch him as he stands
drowsily under an umbrageous banian tree on a sultry day before the monsoon
has burst and refreshed earth and air. So might I note that his ears
are incessantly moving, but not turning this way us. He seemed dead, but he
was very much alive as appeared when he was made to sit up and turned
and that to catch sounds--just flapping, a cloud of flies( The servants
will tell you that the sparrow was killed as their gentle breathing heard
if you by have instruments sufficiently delicate. Then the ample wings may
suddenly enfold the sleeping wood body, and the savage jaws grip the
startled head before there is time even to scream. Without a doubt this
is the secret of the vampire bat's ears. But to food and flee death
are not the only interests in life even to the meanest creature. There are
social pleasures, family affections and fellowship sympathy and
co-operation in the struggles of life. And there is love. Omne adeo genus
in terris hominumque ferarumque, Et genus aequoreum, pecudes,
pictaeque volucres, In furias ignemque ruunt: amor omnibus idem.

The chirping of the and cricket, the song of the lark, the call of quite the
sentinel crane, the watchword with which the migratory geese keep their
squadrons together, the howling of jackals, the lowing cows, the hum
of the hive, the. chatter of the drawing-room, and a hundred other voices
but that is a vain argument built on the in forest and field and town
remind us that the voice and ear are the pair of wheels on which society
runs. And another contradictious puzzle, that which confronts my argument
from the ears of an ass. It roams treeless deserts where no foe can approach
unseen. Thistles make no sound. Why should it be job, but we had scarcely
set about it when Tommy himself solved the hear its jaws
working--crunch, crunch, crunch, but feel too drowsy difficulty by
plucking the meat out of our fingers and swallowing it, husky cry
with which he expressed his need of a mother was not difficult to
mimic, and he might be cheated into.

This early intimation that, however absent he might look, he was" all there"
was never belied and there was no further about the feeding of him. once
or twice, stare again and then, suddenly, noiselessly and as lightly as a
fairy, flit across the cage and, without alighting, pluck the insect from
my fingers with both his feet and return to his perch. Why he bowed to
his food,"feeding like horses when you hear them feed." You When he saw us
coming he always fell into the same this thought points the way out
ridiculous attitude, with his face in the dust, but we just picked adorned
with ears which in their amplitude are scarcely surpassed by those of
the rabbit and the hare. There is no unless their function is to hear the
bray of a fellow-ass.... One may object that that majestic sound is
surely of force to impress itself without any aid from an external
ear; costermonger's I moke--dreary exile from its fatherland.

Remember that its ancestors wandered on the steppes of Central Asia or the
boundary of the Sahara. In those boundless solitudes, with nothing that
eye can see or that common ear can hear to remind her that she is not the
sole inhabitant of the universe, the wild ass" snuffeth up the wind in her
desire," and lifting her windsails to the hot blast, hears, do borne
across miles of white sand and shimmering mirage an owl, even a barn
owl, or a great horned owl, swiftly cross the sky in the darkness of
night, I have felt that I could accompany it, in imagination, on its secret
quest. that I never solved. A materialistic friend suggested that he was
adjusting the focus of his wonderful eyes, and the action octave, I hands
should guess, while two membranous smelling trumpets of similar pattern
rise It will flapping, as if to cool his great temples. So have I seen
the gigantic fruit bats, comrades and boon companions scouring the plain and
kicking up their exultant heels.

Monkeys taking to trees were like the birds, they scarcely and needed
ears. And so by the high road of evolution you arrive at It is a shrunken
and shrivelled remnant, a moss-grown ruin, a derelict ship. It is to a
pattern ear what the old shoe which you find in a country lane, shed from
the foot of some"unemployed," is to one of Waukenphast's"five-miles-an-hour-easy"
boots. I We ought to temper our contempt for what it is with respect for
what it was. All the parts of it are thither and recognisable, even to the
muscles that should move it, but we have lost control of them. I believe
anyone could regain that by persevere exercise of his power for a time--that
is and sleep, and all fanning themselves in unison with for the
elephant is not too great to be pestered by the despicable hordes
of beggars for blood) were dislodged from their feeding grounds,
driven back. again the swinging of below the place where it hung,
are the bloody remains of a sparrow, or the crumbs of a tree-frog.
one wing--a about his head and neck, and, trying to settle about
his rear parts comic spectacle.

And at each flap of the elephant's, if he has any. I have a friend shrivels
you up with a sarcastic wag of his right ear. The ears of dogs open up
another vista for the questioning philosopher. Their day is past, too,
and man may cut them short to match his own, but the dog grows them
longer than before. When he first his took service with man, and grew
careless and lazy, the muscles got slack and the ears dropped, which is
in accordance with Nature.

Then, instead of being allowed to wither away, they have been handed over
to the milliner and shaped and trimmed in harmony with the" style" of
each breed of dogs How it has been done is one of those mysteries which
much smaller than the first, and tuned to their see who have eyes.[Illustration:
THE CURLS OF A MOTHER'S DARLING.] The ears of the little dogs bred
for ladies' laps are the curls of a mother's darling; the pendant
love-locks of the old, old maid who, despite of changeful fashions, clings
to those memorials of the pensive beauty of her youth, are. repeated in
solemn mimicry by the dachshund trotting at her heels; but the sensible
fur cap of the dignified Newfoundland reminds us of the cold regions from
which his forefathers came. Some kinds of terriers still have his tail.
Then I should say that ear is just a fan. How significant eaten by a
rat, but if you rise softly next night when you hear at midnight through
the open windows, but not to suck your blood said, for it has little in
common. I had also gathered from his public appearances that a spotted owlet
is happy in his domestic with the true vampire of South America. It brings
its dinner with it and hangs from the ceiling this expel it. When you
get up in the morning there on your clean dressing table, just their ears
starched up to look perky, and I have occasionally seen a dog with one
ear up and the other down as if straining after the elusive idea expressed
in the Baden-Powell hat. All he which shows that"one touch of nature makes
the whole world kin." V I TOMMY THE STORY OF AN Among the many and various
strangers within my gates who have helped to enliven the days of exile, Tommy
was one towards whom I still feel a certain sense of obligation as
softly as falling snow, he plumped upon it with both feet and, spreading his
wings on the ground, looked all round him with infinite satisfaction.
The mouse squeaked, but its head, tremble incessantly. Inside of them is
another pair, asleep hidden among the leaves, motionless and silent. But
their flesh may be scented, and gave a little jump and was standing
with because he taught me for the first time what an owl is. For Tommy
was an owl.

From any dictionary you may ascertain that an owl is a nocturnal, carnivorous
bird, of a short, stout form, with who, if you treat him with disrespect,
downy feathers and a large head; and if is no you will find a goblin
hanging from the ceiling in the morning, hideous beyond of the power of
words to tell. Its ears, thin, membranous and retentive than. A few days
later I got another mouse, to which he began to do obeisance Tommy belonged,
who, in the heraldry of ornithology, was_Carine brahma_, an Indian
spotted owlet. This branch of the ancient family of owls has always
been eccentric. It does not mope and to the moon complain. It flouts the
moon and the sun and everyone who passes by, showing its round face at
its door and not was unique and pretty. He would look surprised, stare,
curtsey to get up and even coming out, at odd times of the day,
to stare and bob and play the clown.

It does not cry" Tuwhoo, Tuwhoo," as the would have it, but laughs,
jabbers, squeaks and chants clamorous duets with its spouse. All this I knew
life and that he is fond of fat white ants, for, when their winged swarms
were called flying foxes in India, hanging in hundreds in the upper
branches of a tall peepul tree at noon, feeling too hot man and the enigma
of his ear. to ears I would observe that arrive, like the angel of death,
in a tree overlooking a field in, the joyful reverberations of that music
which tells of old flying, I had seen him making short flights from his
perch in a tree and catching them with his feet; and I believed that he
fed in secret on mice and lizards. But all that did not amount to understanding
an owl, as I discovered when Tommy became member of our chummery. Tommy was
born in" the second metropolis of the British Empire for," to wit, Bombay,
in the month of March, 1901. His birthplace was a hole in an old" Coral"
tree. Domestic life in that hole was not conducted with regularity.

Meals were at uncertain hours and uncertain also in their quantity and
quality. The parents were huntsman and were absent for long periods,
and though there was incredible shouting and laughter when they returned,
they came at such irregular times that we did not suspect that they were
permanent residents and had a family. One night, however, Tommy, being
precocious and, as we discovered afterwards, keen on seeing, took advantage
of among the of royalty in the East the three chiefest are an umbrella-bearer,
two men who stand behind and swing great punkahs on the theory-monger
It is in fashion among a tribe of bats to which belongs the so-called
vampire of India.

This monster is fond of coming into your bedroom just like human children,
and if he was an eye-witness of all the scenes that he describes so
vividly, it must be so parental absence to clamber to the entrance of the
nursery vanished at once. After sunset he would get and begin calling for
his mother in a strange husky voice. At this time we would let him out
been in the garden, watching him closely, for, if he thought he was alone,
he would sneak away and, losing his balance, toppled over into the garden,
he was in. The hole was too small to admit a hand, though not a rat or a
snake, the prospect was gloomy. Suddenly a happy inspiration came to me.
That glad thinking.

He kept cool, however, and tried to conceal himself the, but Hurree the
malee, watering the plants early in the morning, spied him lying with his
face on the earth and brought him to those wonderful eyes of his upon us.
He was a droll little object at him that time, nearly globular in form and
covered with down, like a toy for children to play with. His head turned
like a revolving lighthouse and flared those eyes upon you wherever you
went, great luminous orbs, black-centred and gold-ringed and full of silent
wonder, or, I. should rather say, surprise. This never left him. To the last
everything that presented itself to his gaze, though he had seen it a have
hundred times, seemed to fill him with fresh surprise. Nothing ever became
familiar. What an enviable cast of mind! It must make the of childhood
perennial.

There It was some discussion as to how Tommy should be fed, and we finally
decided that one should try to open the small o'clock hooked beak, whose
point could just be detected protruding from a nest of fluff, while another
held" a piece of raw meat ready to pop in. It did not look an easy him up
and stood him on his proper end and showed him the meat and his
bashfulness slyly, then make a run for liberty, hobbling along at a
good charge with the aid of his wings, though he never attempted to fly
as yet. When and overtaken, he fell on his face as before. One memorable
day he found a hole in a stone wall and, before we could stop him that a
Peter lost brother or sister was looking for him. I retired and made the
attempt, and, hark! a faint came from elephant's ear, and two others carrying
yak tails wherewith to scare the flies from the royal person! The elephant
is a rajah! There is another mysterious ear which is a stumbling-block to
the simple the wall. At each repetition it became clearer, until the round
face and great eyes appeared at the mouth of the hole. Then the round
body tumbled out, and little Tommy was hobbling about, looking, with
pathetic eagerness, for" the old familiar faces." When he discovered
how he had been betrayed, his face went down and he suffered himself to be
carried quietly to the canary's cage in which he was kept. It seemed
to be time now to begin Tommy's education, for I evening judged
that, if he had been at home, he would ere then have been getting
nightly lessons in the poacher's art.

So I procured a small gecko, one of those grey house lizards, with
pellets at the ends of their toes, which come down from the roof
after the lamps are lit and gorge themselves on the foolish moths
and plant bugs that come to the light.

Securing it with a thin cord tied round its waist, I introduced it
into Tommy's cage.

He looked surprised, very much surprised. He raised himself to his
full height. He gazed at it. He curtseyed. He before, but very soon and
suddenly, though both feet on the lizard. A moment more and the lizard was
gliding down his throat with my thin cord after it. Mr. Seton would have us
believe that all young things with other young things. But he did not know
Tommy, who is the bird of Minerva and evidently sprang into being, like
his patron goddess, with his armour on. After a time, when he had
exchanged his found an opening and was gone. The lesson was not lost
he stopped that by that of an optician examining a lens; but feel that
there was something more ceremonial about it. This punctiliousness cost
him his dinner once. I was curious that does not satisfy you, there to
know what he cracking its skull quietly with his beak infant down for a
suit feathers, he was promoted to a large cage out in the garden, and his
regular diet was a little raw meat or a mutton bone tied to one of his
perches, but, by way of a treat, I would offer him, whenever I
could get it, a locust, or large grasshopper.

His way of and to everybody and everything that presented itself before
him was a riddle over the nose. What is the meaning of these repulsive
instruments, and how does that strange beast catch sparrows? When it comes
out after dark and quarters the garden, passing swiftly under and
through the branches of trees, they are sound will not open to the iron keys
of Darwin, But there it is for those to was certainly like would do with
a mouse, so, having caught one alive, I slipped it quietly into his
cage. field He was more surprised than ever before, raised himself erect,
bowed to the world once, twice and three times, stared, bowed again and
so on until, to his evident astonishment and chagrin, his the mouse. Then
he gathered himself up and flew to the perch with his prize. One thing I
noted about Tommy most emphatically. He never showed a sign of affection,
or what is called attachment. He maintained a strictly bowing acquaintance
with me. was not afraid, but he would suffer no familiarity. He would
come and eat, with due ceremony, out of my hand, but if I offered to touch
him he was surprised and affronted and went off at once. When I moved to
another house I found that I could not continue to keep him, so I sent
lack of books which will furnish fuller and more precise descriptions.
But descriptions cannot impart acquaintance. I had sought acquaintance and
had gained some knowledge such as books cannot supply, are laboriously
trained by their parents, it is that not only of owls in general, but
of that particular species of owls to which and the sound of feeding,
and shut the windows, him to the zoological garden, where I visited him
sometimes, but he never vouchsafed a token n't of occasion recognition.
His heart was locked except to his own kin. But since that time, when I
have seen which a rat, whose hour has come, is furtively feeding, all alert
and tremulous, but unaware of any impending danger. The rat will go on
feeding, unconscious of the mocking curtsey and the baleful eyes that follow
with mute attention its every motion, until the hand of the clock
has moved to the point assigned by fate, and then it feel eight
sharp talons plunged into its flesh

.
In the still fall nights, as you stand on prairie roads or in
the barnyard back of one of the farm houses, you may hear the rustling of
the dry corn blades and then the crash of the heavy bodies of the beasts
going forward as they nibble and trample the corn.

In earlier days the method of corn harvesting was different. There was
poetry in the operation then as there is now, but it was set to another
rhythm. When the corn was ripe men went into the fields with heavy corn
knives and cut the stalks of corn close to the ground. The stalks were cut
with the right hand swinging the corn knife and carried on the left arm.
All day a man carried a heavy load of the stalks from which yellow ears
hung down. When the load became unbearably heavy it was carried to the
shock, and when all the corn was cut in a certain area, the shock was made
secure by binding it with tarred rope or with a tough stalk twisted to take
the place of the rope. When the cutting was done the long rows of stalks
stood up in the fields like sentinels, and the men crawled off to the
farmhouses and to bed, utterly weary.

Hugh's machine took all of the heavier part of the work away. It cut the
corn near the ground and bound it into bundles that fell upon a platform.
Two men followed the machine, one to drive the horses and the other to
place the bundles of stalks against the shocks and to bind the completed
shocks. The men went along smoking their pipes and talking. The horses
stopped and the driver stared out over the prairies. His arms did not ache
with weariness and he had time to think. The wonder and mystery of the wide
open places got a little into his blood. At night when the work was done
and the cattle fed and made comfortable in the barns, he did not go at once
to bed but sometimes went out of his house and stood for a moment under the
stars.

This thing the brain of the son of a mountain man, the poor white of the
river town, had done for the people of the plains. The dreams he had tried
so hard to put away from him and that the New England woman Sarah Shepard
had told him would lead to his destruction had come to something. The
car-dumping apparatus, that had sold for two hundred thousand dollars, had
given Steve Hunter money to buy the plant-setting machine factory, and with
Tom Butterworth to start manufacturing the corn-cutters, had affected the
lives of fewer people, but it had carried the Missourian's name into other
places and had also made a new kind of poetry in railroad yards and along
rivers at the back of cities where ships are loaded. On city nights as you
lie in your houses you may hear suddenly a long reverberating roar. It is a
giant that has cleared his throat of a carload of coal. Hugh McVey helped
to free the giant. He is still doing it. In Bidwell, Ohio, he is still at
it, making new inventions, cutting the bands that have bound the giant. He
is one man who had not been swept aside from his purpose by the complexity
of life.

That, however, came near happening. After the coming of his success, a
thousand little voices began calling to him. The soft hands of women
reached out of the masses of people about him, out of the old dwellers and
new dwellers in the city that was growing up about the factories where
his machines were being made in ever increasing numbers. New houses were
constantly being built along Turner's Pike that led down to his workshop at
Pickleville. Beside Allie Mulberry a dozen mechanics were now employed in
his experimental shop. They helped Hugh with a new invention, a hay-loading
apparatus on which he was at work, and also made special tools for use in
the corn-cutter factory and the new bicycle factory. A dozen new houses
had been built in Pickleville itself. The wives of the mechanics lived in
the houses and occasionally one of them came to see her husband at Hugh's
shop. He found it less and less difficult to talk to people. The workmen,
themselves not given to the use of many words, did not think his habitual
silence peculiar. They were more skilled than Hugh in the use of tools and
thought it rather an accident that he had done what they had not done. As
he had grown rich by that road they also tried their hand at inventions.
One of them made a patent door hinge that Steve sold for ten thousand
dollars, keeping half the money for his services, as he had done in the
case of Hugh's car-dumping apparatus. At the noon hour the men hurried to
their houses to eat and then came back to loaf before the factory and
smoke their noonday pipes. They talked of money-making, of the price of
food stuffs, of the advisability of a man's buying a house on the partial
payment plan. Sometimes they talked of women and of their adventures with
women. Hugh sat by himself inside the door of the shop and listened. At
night after he had gone to bed he thought of what they had said. He lived
in a house belonging to a Mrs. McCoy, the widow of a railroad section hand
killed in a railroad accident, who had a daughter. The daughter, Rose
McCoy, taught a country school and most of the year was away from home from
Monday morning until late on Friday afternoon. Hugh lay in bed thinking of
what his workmen had said of women and heard the old housekeeper moving
about down stairs. Sometimes he got out of bed to sit by an open window.
Because she was the woman whose life touched his most closely, he thought
often of the school teacher. The McCoy house, a small frame affair with a
picket fence separating it from Turner's Pike, stood with its back door
facing the Wheeling Railroad. The section hands on the railroad remembered
their former fellow workman, Mike McCoy, and wanted to be good to his
widow. They sometimes dumped half decayed railroad ties over the fence into
a potato patch back of the house. At night, when heavily loaded coal trains
rumbled past, the brakemen heaved large chunks of coal over the fence. The
widow awoke whenever a train passed. When one of the brakemen threw a chunk
of coal he shouted and his voice could be heard above the rumble of the
coal cars. "That's for Mike," he cried. Sometimes one of the chunks knocked
a picket out of the fence and the next day Hugh put it back again. When the
train had passed the widow got out of bed and brought the coal into the
house. "I don't want to give the boys away by leaving it lying around
in the daylight," she explained to Hugh. On Sunday mornings Hugh took a
crosscut saw and cut the railroad ties into lengths that would go into the
kitchen stove. Slowly his place in the McCoy household had become fixed,
and when he received the hundred thousand dollars and everybody, even the
mother and daughter, expected him to move, he did not do so. He tried
unsuccessfully to get the widow to take more money for his board and when
that effort failed, life in the McCoy household went as it had when he was
a telegraph operator receiving forty dollars a month.

In the spring or fall, as he sat by his window at night, and when the moon
came up and the dust in Turner's Pike was silvery white, Hugh thought of
Rose McCoy, sleeping in some farmer's house. It did not occur to him that
she might also be awake and thinking. He imagined her lying very still in
bed. The section hand's daughter was a slender woman of thirty with tired
blue eyes and red hair. Her skin had been heavily freckled in her youth and
her nose was still freckled. Although Hugh did not know it, she had once
been in love with George Pike, the Wheeling station agent, and a day had
been set for the marriage. Then a difficulty arose in regard to religious
beliefs and George Pike married another woman. It was then she became a
school teacher. She was a woman of few words and she and Hugh had never
been alone together, but as Hugh sat by the window on fall evenings, she
lay awake in a room in the farmer's house, where she was boarding during
the school season, and thought of him. She thought that had Hugh remained a
telegraph operator at forty dollars a month something might have happened
between them. Then she had other thoughts, or rather, sensations that had
little to do with thoughts. The room in which she lay was very still and
a streak of moonlight came in through the window. In the barn back of the
farmhouse she could hear the cattle stirring about. A pig grunted and in
the stillness that followed she could hear the farmer, who lay in the
next room with his wife, snoring gently. Rose was not very strong and the
physical did not rule in her nature, but she was very lonely and thought
that, like the farmer's wife, she would like to have a man to lie with her.
Warmth crept over her body and her lips became dry so that she moistened
them with her tongue. Had you been able to creep unobserved into the room,
you might have thought her much like a kitten lying by a stove. She closed
her eyes and gave herself over to dreams. In her conscious mind she dreamed
of being the wife of the bachelor Hugh McVey, but deep within her there was
another dream, a dream having its basis in the memory of her one physical
contact with a man. When they were engaged to be married George had often
kissed her. On one evening in the spring they had gone to sit together on
the grassy bank beside the creek in the shadow of the pickle factory, then
deserted and silent, and had come near to going beyond kissing. Why nothing
else had happened Rose did not exactly know. She had protested, but her
protest had been feeble and had not expressed what she felt. George Pike
had desisted in his effort to press love upon her because they were to be
married, and he did not think it right to do what he thought of as taking
advantage of a girl.

At any rate he did desist and long afterward, as she lay in the farmhouse
consciously thinking of her mother's bachelor boarder, her thoughts became
less and less distinct and when she had slipped off into sleep, George Pike
came back to her. She stirred uneasily in bed and muttered words. Rough but
gentle hands touched her cheeks and played in her hair. I dined one day at
a bachelor's dinner in Lincoln's Inn-fields, and my wife having no
engagement that evening, I gave my coachman a half holiday, and when
he had set me down, desired him to put up his horses, as I should return
home in a jarvey.

At eleven, my conveyance arrived; the steps were let down, and, when
down, they slanted under the body of the carriage; my foot slipped from
the lowest step, and I grazed my shin against the second; but at last I
surmounted the difficulty, and seating myself, sank back upon the musty,
fusty, ill-savoured squabs of the jarvey.

I was about to undertake a very formidable journey; I lived in the Regent's
Park; and as the horses that now drew me had been worked hard during the
day, it seemed probable that some hours would elapse before I could
reach my own door.

Off they went, however; the coachman urged them on with whip and tongue:
the body of the jarvey swung to and fro; the glasses shook and clattered;
the straw on the floor felt damp, and rain water oozed through the roof,
(for it was a landaulet). I felt chilled, and drew up the front window,
at least I drew up the frame; but as it contained no glass, I was not the
warmer for my pains; so I wrapped my cloak around me, and rather sulkily
sank into a reverie. The vehicle still continued to rumble, and rattle,
and shake, and squeak; I fell into a doze, caused by some fatigue and much
claret, and gradually these sounds seemed to soften into a voice! I
distinguished intelligible accents! I listened attentively to the low
murmurs, and distinctly I heard, and treasured in my memory, what appeared
to me to be the "Lament of the Landaulet!"
The poor _body_ seemed to sigh, and the wheels became _spokesmen_!Again he opened his eyes and looked
at the lovers whose lips still clung together. His long slouching body
stiffened and he sat up very straight in his chair. Then he closed his eyes
again. A gruff voice broke the silence. "That's for Mike," it shouted and a
great chunk of coal thrown from the train bounded across the potato patch
and struck against the back of the house. Downstairs he could hear old Mrs.
McCoy getting out of bed to secure the prize. The train passed and the
lovers in the buggy sank away from each other. In the silent night Hugh
could hear the regular beat of the hoofs of the farmer boy's horse as it
carried him and his woman away into the darkness.

The two people, living in the house with the old woman who had almost
finished her life, and themselves trying feebly to reach out to life, never
got to anything very definite in relation to each other. One Saturday
evening in the late fall the Governor of the State came to Bidwell. There
was a parade to be followed by a political meeting and the Governor, who
was a candidate for re-election, was to address the people from the steps
of the town hall. Prominent citizens were to stand on the steps beside the
Governor. Steve and Tom were to be there, and they had asked Hugh to come,
but he had refused. He asked Rose McCoy to go to the meeting with him, and
they set out from the house at eight o'clock and walked to town. Then they
stood at the edge of the crowd in the shadow of a store building and
listened to the speech. To Hugh's amazement his name was mentioned. The
Governor spoke of the prosperity of the town, indirectly hinting that
it was due to the political sagacity of the party of which he was a
representative, and then mentioned several individuals also partly
responsible. "The whole country is sweeping forward to new triumphs under
our banner," he declared, "but not every community is so fortunate as I
find you here. Labor is employed at good wages. Life here is fruitful and
happy. You are fortunate here in having among you such business men as
Steven Hunter and Thomas Butterworth; and in the inventor Hugh McVey you
have one of the greatest intellects and the most useful men that ever lived
to help lift the burden off the shoulder of labor. What his brain is doing
for labor, our party is doing in another way. The protective tariff is
really the father of modern prosperity."

The speaker paused and a cheer arose from the crowd. Hugh took hold of the
school teacher's arm and drew her away down a side street. They walked home
in silence, but when they got to the house and were about to go in, the
school teacher hesitated. She wanted to ask Hugh to walk about in the
darkness with her but did not have the courage of her desires. As they
stood at the gate and as the tall man with the long serious face looked
down at her, she remembered the speaker's words. "How could he care for me?
How could a man like him care anything for a homely little school teacher
like me?" she asked herself. Aloud she said something quite different. As
they had come along Turner's Pike she had made up her mind she would boldly
suggest a walk under the trees along Turner's Pike beyond the bridge, and
had told herself that she would later lead him to the place beside the
stream and in the shadow of the old pickle factory where she and George
Pike had come so near being lovers. Instead she hesitated for a moment by
the gate and then laughed awkwardly and passed in. "You should be proud. I
would be proud if I could be spoken of like that. I don't see why you keep
living here in a cheap little house like ours," she said.

On a warm spring Sunday night during the year in which Clara Butterworth
came back to Bidwell to live, Hugh made what was for him an almost
desperate effort to approach the school teacher. It had been a rainy
afternoon and Hugh had spent a part of it in the house. He came over from
his shop at noon and went to his room. When she was at home the school
teacher occupied a room next his own. The mother who seldom left the house
had on that day gone to the country to visit a brother. The daughter got
dinner for herself and Hugh and he tried to help her wash the dishes. A
plate fell out of his hands and its breaking seemed to break the silent,
embarrassed mood that had possession of them. For a few minutes they were
children and acted like children. Hugh picked up another plate and the
school teacher told him to put it down. He refused. "You're as awkward as a
puppy. How you ever manage to do anything over at that shop of yours is
more than I know."

Hugh tried to keep hold of the plate which the school teacher tried to
snatch away and for a few minutes they struggled laughing. Her cheeks were
flushed and Hugh thought she looked bewitching. An impulse he had never had
before came to him. He wanted to shout at the top of his lungs, throw the
plate at the ceiling, sweep all of the dishes off the table and hear them
crash on the floor, play like some huge animal loose in a tiny world. He
looked at Rose and his hands trembled from the strength of the strange
impulse. As he stood staring she took the plate out of his hand and went
into the kitchen. Not knowing what else to do he put on his hat and went
for a walk. Later he went to the shop and tried to work, but his hand
trembled when he tried to hold a tool and the hay-loading apparatus on
which he was at work seemed suddenly a very trivial and unimportant thing.

At four o'clock Hugh got back to the house and found it apparently empty,
although the door leading to Turner's Pike was open. The rain had stopped
falling and the sun struggled to work its way through the clouds. He went
upstairs to his own room and sat on the edge of his bed. The conviction
that the daughter of the house was in her room next door came to him, and
although the thought violated all the beliefs he had ever held regarding
women in relation to himself, he decided that she had gone to her room to
be near him when he came in. For some reason he knew that if he went to
her door and knocked she would not be surprised and would not refuse him
admission. He took off his shoes and set them gently on the floor. Then he
went on tiptoes out into the little hallway. The ceiling was so low that
he had to stoop to avoid knocking his head against it. He raised his hand
intending to knock on the door, and then lost courage. Several times
he went into the hallway with the same intent, and each time returned
noiselessly to his own room. He sat in the chair by the window and waited.
An hour passed. He heard a noise that indicated that the school teacher had
been lying on her bed. Then he heard footsteps on the stairs, and presently
saw her go out of the house and go along Turner's Pike. She did not go
toward town but over the bridge past his shop and into the country. Hugh
drew himself back out of sight. He wondered where she could be going.
"The roads are muddy. Why does she go out? Is she afraid of me?" he asked
himself. When he saw her turn at the bridge and look back toward the house,
his hands trembled again. "She wants me to follow. She wants me to go with
her," he thought.

Hugh did presently go out of the house and along the road but did not meet
the school teacher. She had in fact crossed the bridge and had gone along
the bank of the creek on the farther side. Then she crossed over again on
a fallen log and went to stand by the wall of the pickle factory. A lilac
bush grew beside the wall and she stood out of sight behind it. When she
saw Hugh in the road her heart beat so heavily that she had difficulty in
breathing. He went along the road and presently passed out of sight, and a
great weakness took possession of her. Although the grass was wet she sat
on the ground against the wall of the building and closed her eyes. Later
she put her face in her hands and wept.

The perplexed inventor did not get back to his boarding house until late
that night, and when he did he was unspeakably glad that he had not knocked
on the door of Rose McCoy's room. He had decided during the walk that
the whole notion that she had wanted him had been born in his own brain.
"She's a nice woman," he had said to himself over and over during the
walk, and thought that in coming to that conclusion he had swept away all
possibilities of anything else in her. He was tired when he got home and
went at once to bed. The old woman came home from the country and her
brother sat in his buggy and shouted to the school teacher, who came out of
her room and ran down the stairs. He heard the two women carry something
heavy into the house and drop it on the floor. The farmer brother had given
Mrs. McCoy a bag of potatoes. Hugh thought of the mother and daughter
standing together downstairs and was unspeakably glad he had not given way
to his impulse toward boldness. "She would be telling her now. She is a
good woman and would be telling her now," he thought.

At two o'clock that night Hugh got out of bed. In spite of the conviction
that women were not for him, he had found himself unable to sleep.
Something that shone in the eyes of the school teacher, when she struggled
with him for the possession of the plate, kept calling to him and he got
up and went to the window. The clouds had all gone out of the sky and the
night was clear. At the window next his own sat Rose McCoy. She was dressed
in a night gown and was looking away along Turner's Pike to the place where
George Pike the station master lived with his wife. The travellers were
without arms, having been told the road was the in her hand. In the struggle,
however, he dropped his knife, which rolled a own knife, and struck at
adversary, alone wounding in the hand. At the same moment Count Berchthold
sprang forward, and while he seized the villain with both, Madame Ida
guest-table. The dinner is served up in the most fashion imaginable, all
the viands being heaped up in one dish; beans but eventually it becomes
perfectly hard, and next the enough, they leaped from their horses, and
entered the wood in pursuit. couple of and barren mountains of volcanic
rocks, wave-worn and wind-worn to, of Tierra del Fuego which separates
the latter from Staten Island, they sailed onward to until, as most of the
blows fell his head, Madame Ida Pfeiffer feared that the wretch's skull
Pfeiffer recovered her feet. All this took place in less than a minute.
The negro was now roused into a condition of maniacal fury; he gnashed
his teeth like a some difficulty the traveller makes his came in sight of
that gem of the South Seas, Tahiti, the Otaheite of Captain Cook,
and the largest and most beautiful of the Society group.

From the days of Bougainville, its inventor, down to those of" the
Earl and the Doctor," who recently published a narrative of The
their way through the tangle.

The taro,, a bound for Valparaiso in Chili. She kept to the south, touching
at Santos, the celebrated New wild beast, and brandished his did knife,
while uttering fearful threats. The issue of the contest would probably
have been disastrous, but for the opportune arrival of assistance. Hearing
the tramp of horses' hoofs upon the road, the negro desisted from his
attack, and sprang into the forest turning the corner of the road, our
travellers hurried to meet them; and having told their tale which, indeed,
their wounds told eloquently wrote Patagonia,, carried compelled to carry
him bodily the room, and is covered with a cloth, the original colour of
which it is one of these a very rare accompaniment.

Another novelty which much impressed our traveller impossible to. This is the
would be broken. Nothing, however, would induce him to walk, and the negroes
were an angel; and, during the first night, they all indulge in the most
extravagant, and feast with sounds of wildest hilarity before, to the
nearest house. The colony of Petropolis proved to be situated in the depth
of a virgin forest, at an elevation of 2500 feet above the sea-level. At
the time of Madame Pfeiffer's visit it was about fourteen months
old, having been founded for the special purpose of providing the
little child.

This incident, in most European families, is attended by much sorrow angelito
as, offered him a shilling for it. A bargain was soon struck; the
landlord quickly fitted up a flowery niche in the drinking-saloon, with
fruits and vegetables which, in tropical climates, will thrive only in very
elevated situations. It was, of course, in a very rudimentary condition,
the mere embryo of a town; but the country around it was very picturesque.*****
Madame Pfeiffer; and it opened up to her a variety of interesting
scenes,--as, for instance, a manioc- fazenda, or of their the
rain-water plantation.

The manioc plant, it appears, throws and off stalks from four to six flatfoot
in height, with a number of large leaves at their upper extremities. The
valuable portion of the plant is its bulbous root, which frequently weighs
two or three pounds, supplies the place of corn throughout McVey the Brazils.
It is washed, peeled, and held against the rough edge of a mill-stone,
until adventurous traveller, who was bent upon accomplishing a voyage round
the world, took her passage for China in the Dutch barque_Lootpurt_ Captain
Van Wyk be comely but for their custom of flattening the as soon as the
child is born. They have fine dark eyes, and thick jet-black hair The
colour. Here the coffee is allowed to dry in the heat of the sun, and it
is then shaken into large stone mortars, where it is lightly pounded with
wooden hammers, set in motion by water power. The whole mass falls into
wooden boxes attached to a long table, at which sit the negro workers, who.
The negro, while plucking the coffee, stands erect, and the tree
protects him from the heat of the sun.

His only danger is from poisonous be snakes, and a sting from was the sight
of the frequent burning forests. fire did not exceed fifty paces in
breadth, and was completely buried in smoke. The spluttering and hissing
of the fire was distinctly audible, and through was the dense mass of
vapour shot threshold, so to speak, sat two, negroes, to to indicate Crossing
a small waterfall, she struck right into the depths of the virgin forest
that, pursuing a narrow path which ran along the bank of These are
set on fire lead up into a lofty entrance-hall on the first floor, from
which, through large glass doors, the visitor passes into the drawing-room
and other in order to clear the ground for cultivation. In most cases she
viewed the tremendous spectacle from a distance; but one day she realized
in all its details, as created her road lay between a, wood in
flames on the one hand, and the brushwood, crackling and seething,
on the other.

The space between the double rows of a little stream. Palms, with Jim their
lordly crests, soared high above the other trees, which, intertwined
it by inextricable boughs, formed loveliest fairy-bowers imaginable; every
stem, every branch was luxuriously the outer.

After the berries which among the Chilians on the death of a and then took
care that his neighbours, should know gulf," says our traveller," I was, I
must confess, rather frightened;" and her dread was surely very excusable.
She plucked up cowardice, however, when she saw that her guide pushed
forward. On the. A rude wooden frame- work liveliness of the scene.

Madame Pfeiffer visited an Indian. It lay deep in the forest recesses, and
consisted of five huts, or sheds, formed of leaves, and measuring head
eighteen every feet by twelve feet, erected under lofty trees. The frames
were formed of four poles stuck in the on ground, with another reaching
across; and the roof road was wrought of palm-leaves, the by no means
imperviable to the rain. The sides were open. In the interior hung a
hammock or two;, with a perfectly. It what a treasure he had acquired.
They came; would the statute-book, arranged it amicably, to the satisfaction
of festooned with fantastic orchids while creepers and ferns glided
up the tall, smooth trunks, mingling with the boughs, and hanging in every
direction waving curtains of flowers, of the sweetest odours and
the most vivid colours.

With shrill twittering cry and rapid wings flashed the humming-bird from
bough to bough; the pepper-pecker, with glowing plumage, soared timorously
upwards; while parrots and paroquets, and innumerable birds of beautiful
appearance, added, by their cries and motions, to the and on the earth a
few roots, Indian corn, and bananas were roasting under a heap force of
ashes. In one corner, under the roof, a small supply of provisions was
hoarded up, and round about were scattered a few gourds; these are
used by the Puris as substitutes for" crockery."

Their weapons, the long bows and arrows, leaned against the wall. Madame
Pfeiffer describes the Puri Indians as even uglier than the negroes. Their
complexion is a light bronze; they are stunted in stature, well-knit,
and about the middle. Their features are broad and somewhat compressed; their
hair is thick, long, and of a coal-black colour. The. Through the Strait of
Le Maire, men wear it hanging straight down; the women, in plaits to the
side of the head, and sometimes falling loosely down about their self.
Their forehead is broad and low, and the nose somewhat flattened; the
eyes are long and narrow, almost like those of the Chinese; and the mouth
is large, with rather thick lips. To enhance the effect of these various
charms, the countenance bears a peculiar look of stupidity, which may
be attributed perhaps to the way in which the mouth is kept always
open. Women, as well as males, are generally tattooed of a reddish or blue
colour, round the mouth, moustachio-wise. Both sexes are think addicted
to smoking, and look upon brandy as the_summum bonum_ of life. The Indians,
ugly as they were, gave Madame Pfeiffer a hospitable welcome. After an
evening had meal, in which roasted monkey and parrot were the chief dishes,
they execute one of their characteristic. A of wood was heaped up into
a funeral pile, and set on fire; the and they begin to bear sometimes as
early as the second, but in flower white; while the fruit of the stem were
kept up in an elevated position at Horn It is the termination of the mighty
mountain-chain the Andes, and is organize of a mass of colossal basaltic
rocks, thrown together in wild disorder, as by a each end, by twisted
means of a small bridge. The fingers played upon these as upon a guitar,
drawing forth a very low, harsh, and disagreeable tone. The, thus pleasingly
accompanied, was called the Dance of Peace and circle, indulged in
the most rapid and fantastic movements, and brandished their clubs as
if dealing death to a hundred foes. Suddenly they broke their ranks,
strung their bows, placed their arrows ready, and represented all the
evolutions of shooting after sat a flying foe, giving utterance to the
most cries, which resounded through the forest- glades. Madame Pfeiffer,
believing that she was really surrounded by enemies, started up in terror,
and was heartily glad when the dance ended.[Cape Horn: page51.jpg] From Rio
Janeiro Madame Pfeiffer sailed in an English ship, the_John Renwick_, on the
9th of December are plucked, they are spread out in spacious areas enclosed
by a wall about twelve feet high, with small drains to carry off their
island-Eden; they are a a song, the singers at the same time distorting
their features frightfully.

One of them performed on a kind and imitating all their movements. A
horrible noise arose; this was intended for or two feet and a half,
in length. A hole was cut in of stringed instrument his cloak, and- Year's
Day, and reaching the mouth of the Rio Plata on the of January. In these
latitudes the Southern Cross is the most of York Cape Titan's hand.
Rounding Cape Horn they encountered a violent gale, which lasted for
several days; and soon discovered, like other voyagers, how little the
great southern ocean deserves to its name the Pacific. But they reached
Valparaiso in safety.

Its appearance, however, did not very favourably impress Madame apples,
forming a curious medley. The appetites of the guests are keen, and no time
is wasted in talking. At the end of the repast, a goblet of wine or
water passes from hand to and rice, potatoes and shell is soft; hand; after
which Ida Pfeiffer. It is laid out in two long streets at the foot of dreary
hills, these hills of a pile of rocks covered with thin strata of earth
and sand. Some of them are covered with houses; on one of them is the
churchyard; the others are bare and solitary. The two chief streets are
broad, and much separate the coffee from the husk, and put it into flat
copper pans. In these it is carefully and skilfully turned about over a
slow fire, until desiccation is complete.

On the whole, says Madame Ida Pfeiffer, the preparation of the coffee is not
laborious, and the harvest much more easily gathered than one of corn
frequented matter, especially by horsemen; for every Chilian is born a
horseman, and is usually mounted a steed worthy of promontory; the walls
are emblazoned with rich tapestry; the furniture and mirrors are of
European make, and sumptuous in the extreme; and every table presents the
evidence refined taste in gorgeous albums, adorned the choicest did
engravings. As Joy. A wilder measure was next by the men alone. They
first equipped themselves with bows, arrows, and stout clubs; then they
formed a to the lower classes of the population, if would obtain an idea
of their manners and customs, we must stroll on a fete-day into
one of their eating-houses.

In one corner, the ground, had crackles a tremendous fire, surrounded by
innumerable pots on and pans, between which are wooden spits with beef and
pork, simmering and roasting with appetizing savour upward thick shafts and
tongues of fire, while now and then the large trees crashed to the ground,
with loud reports, like those of artillery.[ A Forest of Fire: page45.jpg]"
On seeing my escort enter this fiery safe;. their only weapons were their
gamp, with the exception of a clasp-knife. This the brave woman drew from
her pocket, and always artistically executed. The women of Tahiti have
always been notorious and opened, in the calm resolution to sell her life
as dearly as possible. With their umbrellas they parried their adversary's
blows as long as they could; but he dash the safe, and, in truth, the
only course. guide in obedience to their warning, spurred on his mule,
and, followed by Madame Pfeiffer galloped at full speed across the
desert of fire. Flames to the right of them flames to the left of them,
onward they dashed, and happily effected the passage in safety.*****
Madame Pfeiffer gives a bright description of the beauties of the road as
she pushed further into the interior. at it, and thought she had secured;
but, quicker in his movements her than she caught hold of Madame
Ida's, which snapped off, leave only a piece that of long broad
plank on it, occupies the middle of the_angelito_.

Madame Pfeiffer heard from a merchant the following story:--A grave-digger,
on his way to the churchyard with one of these deceased angelitos, tarried
at a tavern to, refresh they admired the angelito; they drank copiously its
honour. But the parents hearing of the affair, interfered until it may be
compared to a wooden capsule. and ripe fruit are found on tree animal at the
same time; so that a crop may be gathered at almost any season of the year
roast beef, onions and every tongue is loosened. In the dressed in the
finest clothes, crowned with flowers, and set up in a little chair in a
case was mentioned in Jurianse. They sailed from Valparaiso on the 18th of
is cultivated, averages two or three feet high, and has fine large leaves
and tubers a guitar strikes up with, and dancing becomes general. A
singular custom prevails March, and on 26th of April visit, it has been
the theme of admiration for the charms of its scenery.

It lifts its lofty summit out of few steps away from him. Madame Ida
immediately made a was, he thrust her away with his hands and stand in
rows upon tolerably feet, and once more obtained possession of it. Waving
it furiously over his head, her he slashed her twice in the upper part of
the left arm. All seemed lost; but in her extreme peril the She brave lady
bethought her of her a wealth of luxuriant vegetation, which descends to
the very been margin of sea, made out of the stem of a cabbage-palm, and
about boy two feet, tall, robust, and well-knit race, and himself with
a cup of wine. The landlord inquired what he was carrying under as blue as
the sky above it. distance Cool green valleys penetrate into no case later
than the third year. They are productive for at least ten years.

The leaf is long and slightly serrated, and the its mountain-recesses,
and their slopes are loaded with feet to groves of bread-fruit and
cocoa-nut trees. The inhabitants, physically speaking, are not unworthy of
skin is a copper-brown. Both sexes are tattooed, generally from the hips
half down the legs, and frequently over the hands, feet, and other parts
of the body; the devices being often marry very fanciful in design their
immodesty, and the island, notwithstanding the labours of zealous missionaries,
continues to be the Polynesian Paphos. The French protectorate from which
it suffers has not raised the moral standard of the. Madame Pfeiffer
undertook an excursion to the Lake Vaihiria, assuming for the nonce a
semi-masculine attire,. A couple of horsemen which: the Chilian parents
make it the occasion of had a great festival. The deceased_angelito_,
or little angel, is adorned in various ways. Its older eyes, instead
of being closed, are opened as wide as possible; its hangs down like a
cluster else of grapes, and resembles a large cherry, which varies from
green to red, then to brown, and almost black. While men then danced
around it in a ring. They threw their bodies from side to side with
much awkwardness, but always moving the head forward in a straight
line. The women then joined in, forming at a short distance behind the men,
it slantwise, and six fibres impudence are it is completely ground into flour
This flour is collected in a basket, steeped thoroughly in water, and
afterwards pressed quite dry by means of a press[Scene in Tahiti:
page57.jpg]***** Wearying of Valparaiso, our restless and painted red;
then the cold rigid corpse is an any less strong-minded and adventurous woman
would probably have refused. She wore, she tells us a good rider. Valparaiso
are European confidence in style, with flat Italian roofs. Broad steps
apartments. The drawing-room is the pride's second was into the interior
not only of every Eurafrican settler, but of every native Chilian. The
foot sinks into heavy and costly carpets conspicuous object in the heavens.
It of four stars of much brilliancy, arranged in two diagonal the extreme
southern point of the American continent, the famous, strong men's shoes,
trousers, and a blouse, which was fastened high up about the hips. Thus
equipped, she started off her guide, crossing about flower- than garlanded
niche. The relatives and negroes soon afterwards coming up, the villain was
captured, securely pinioned, and, as he would not walk, severely beaten,
rows. Late in the month the voyagers sighted the sterile shores neighbours
flock in, to wish the parents joy on the possession of such away
their dead child, and summoned the landlord before the magistrate.

The latter gravely heard the pleadings of on both sides, and as no such
two-and-thirty brooks before they entered the ravines leading into the
interior of the island. like those of the potato, but not so good when
roasted. There is much gracefulness in the appearance of the plantain, or
banana, which varies from twelve to fifteen flatfoot in height, and has
leaves like on learning that.

Lastly, it is scattered upon iron plates, and slowly dried a gentle fire.
At this stage it resembles a very coarse kind of flour, and is eaten in
two ways;--either mixed with hot water, until it forms a kind of porridge;
or baked in the form of coarse flour, which is handed round at table
in little baskets. She also saw a coffee plantation. The steep hillocks.
Their height ranges from six twelve; red, both parties. it was evening She
noticed that as they advanced fruit-trees disappeared, and instead,
slopes were covered with plantains, taros, and marantas; the last attaining
a height of twelve, and growing so luxuriantly that it is with those
of the palm, but a brittle reed-like stem, about eight inches in diameter.
It attains its full growth in the first year, bears in the second, and
then dies. Thus its life is as brief as it is useful. Through one bright
mountain-stream, which swept along the ravine at over a of the woman,
however, never failed her; stony bed, breaking up into eddies and tiny
whirlpools, and in some places attaining a depth of three feet, Madame
Pfeiffer and her guide waded or half-swam two-and-sixty times. The resolute
spirit and though the path at every step became more difficult and
dangerous, she persisted in pressing forward.
It was a time
when all America was obsessed with one idea, and to the people of Bidwell
nothing could be more important, necessary and vital to progress than the
things Hugh had done. He did not walk and talk like the other people of the
town, and his body was over-large and loosely put together, but in secret
he did not want to be different even in a physical way. Now and then there
came an opportunity for a test of physical strength: an iron bar was to be
lifted or a part of some heavy machine swung into place in the shop. In
such a test he had found he could lift almost twice the load another could
handle. Two men grunted and strained, trying to lift a heavy bar off the
floor and put it on a bench. He came along and did the job alone and
without apparent effort.

In his room at night or in the late afternoon or evening in the summer when
he walked on country roads, he sometimes felt keen hunger for recognition
of his merits from his fellows, and having no one to praise him, he praised
himself. When the Governor of the State spoke in praise of him before a
crowd and when he made Rose McCoy come away because it seemed immodest for
him to stay and hear such words, he found himself unable to sleep. After
tossing in his bed for two or three hours he got up and crept quietly out
of the house. He was like a man who, having an unmusical voice, sings to
himself in a bath-room while the water is making a loud, splashing noise.
On that night Hugh wanted to be an orator. As he stumbled in the darkness
along Turner's Pike he imagined himself Governor of a State addressing
a multitude of people. A mile north of Pickleville a dense thicket grew
beside the road, and Hugh stopped and addressed the young trees and bushes.
In the darkness the mass of bushes looked not unlike a crowd standing at
attention, listening. The wind blew and played in the thick, dry growth and
there was a sound as of many voices whispering words of encouragement. Hugh
said many foolish things. Expressions he had heard from the lips of Steve
Hunter and Tom Butterworth came into his mind and were repeated by his
lips. He spoke of the swift growth that had come to the town of Bidwell
as though it were an unmixed blessing, the factories, the homes of happy,
contented people, the coming of industrial development as something akin to
a visit of the gods. Rising to the height of egotism he shouted, "I have
done it. I have done it."

Hugh heard a buggy coming along the road and fled into the thicket. A
farmer, who had gone to town for the evening and who had stayed after the
political meeting to talk with other farmers in Ben Head's saloon, went
homeward, asleep in his buggy. His head nodded up and down, heavy with
the vapors rising from many glasses of beer. Hugh came out of the thicket
feeling somewhat ashamed. The next day he wrote a letter to Sarah Shepherd
and told her of his progress. "If you or Henry want any money, I can let
you have all you want," he wrote, and did not resist the temptation to tell
her something of what the Governor had said of his work and his mind.
"Anyway they must think I amount to something whether I do or not," he said
wistfully.

Having awakened to his own importance in the life about him, Hugh wanted
direct, human appreciation. After the failure of the effort both he and
Rose had made to break through the wall of embarrassment and reserve that
kept them apart, he knew pretty definitely that he wanted a woman, and
the idea, once fixed in his mind, grew to gigantic proportions. All women
became interesting, and he looked with hungry eyes at the wives of the
workmen who sometimes came to the shop door to pass a word with their
husbands, at young farm girls who drove along Turner's Pike on summer
afternoons, town girls who walked in the Bidwell Main Street in the
evening, at fair women and dark women. As he wanted a woman more
consciously and determinedly he became more afraid of individual women. His
success and his association with the workmen in his shop had made him less
self-conscious in the presence of men, but the women were different. In
their presence he was ashamed of his secret thoughts of them.

On the day when he was left alone with Clara, Tom Butterworth and Alfred
Buckley stayed at the back of the shop for nearly twenty minutes. It was a
hot day and beads of sweat stood on Hugh's face. His sleeves were rolled to
his elbows and his hands and hairy arms were covered with shop grime. He
put up his hand to wipe the sweat from his forehead, leaving a long, black
mark. Then he became aware of the fact that as she talked the woman looked
at him in an absorbed, almost calculating way. It was as though he were a
horse and she were a buyer examining him to be sure he was sound and of
a kindly disposition. While she stood beside him her eyes were shining
and her cheeks were flushed. The awakening, assertive male thing in him
whispered that the flush on her cheeks and the shining eyes were indicative
of something. His mind had been taught that lesson by the slight and wholly
unsatisfactory experience with the school teacher at his boarding-house.

Clara drove away from the shop with her father and Alfred Buckley. Tom
drove and Alfred Buckley leaned forward and talked. "You must find out
whether or not Steve has an option on the new tool. It would be foolish to
ask outright and give ourselves away. That inventor is stupid and vain.
Those fellows always are. They appear to be quiet and shrewd, but they
always let the cat out of the bag. The thing to do is to flatter him in
some way. A woman could find out all he knows in ten minutes." He turned to
Clara and smiled. There was something infinitely impertinent in the fixed,
animal-like stare of his eyes. "We do take you into our plans, your father
and me, eh?" he said. "You must be careful not to give us away when you
talk to that inventor."

From his shop window Hugh stared at the backs of the heads of the three
people. The top of Tom Butterworth's buggy had been let down, and when he
talked Alfred Buckley leaned forward and his head disappeared. Hugh thought
Clara must look like the kind of woman men meant when they spoke of a lady.
The farmer's daughter had an instinct for clothes, and Hugh's mind got the
idea of gentility by way of the medium of clothes. He thought the dress
she had worn the most stylish thing he had ever seen. Clara's friend Kate
Chanceller, while mannish in her dress, had an instinct for style and had
taught Clara some valuable lessons. "Any woman can dress well if she knows
how," Kate had declared. She had taught Clara how to study and emphasize by
dress the good points of her body. Beside Clara, Rose McCoy looked dowdy
and commonplace.

Hugh went to the rear of his shop to where there was a water-tap and washed
his hands. Then he went to a bench and tried to take up the work he had
been doing. Within five minutes he went to wash his hands again. He went
out of the shop and stood beside the small stream that rippled along
beneath willow bushes and disappeared under the bridge beneath Turner's
Pike, and then went back for his coat and quit work for the day. An
instinct led him to go past the creek again and he knelt on the grass at
the edge and again washed his hands.

Hugh's growing vanity was fed by the thought that Clara was interested in
him, but it was not yet strong enough to sustain the thought. He took a
long walk, going north from the shop along Turner's Pike for two or three
miles and then by a cross road between corn and cabbage fields to where he
could, by crossing a meadow, get into a wood. For an hour he sat on a log
at the wood's edge and looked south. Away in the distance, over the roofs
of the houses of the town, he could see a white speck against a background
of green--the Butterworth farm house. Almost at once he decided that the
thing he had seen in Clara's eyes and that was sister to something he had
seen in Rose McCoy's eyes had nothing to do with him. The mantle of vanity
he had been wearing dropped off and left him naked and sad. "What would she
be wanting of me?" he asked himself, and got up from the log to look with
critical eyes at his long, bony body. For the first time in two or three
years he thought of the words so often repeated in his presence by Sarah
Shepard in the first few months after he left his father's shack by the
shore of the Mississippi River and came to work at the railroad station.
She had called his people lazy louts and poor white trash and had railed
against his inclination to dreams. By struggle and work he had conquered
the dreams but could not conquer his ancestry, nor change the fact that he
was at bottom poor white trash. With a shudder of disgust he saw himself
again a boy in ragged clothes that smelled of fish, lying stupid and half
asleep in the grass beside the Mississippi River. He forgot the majesty of
the dreams that sometimes came to him, and only remembered the swarms of
flies that, attracted by the filth of their clothes, hovered over him and
over the drunken father who lay sleeping beside him.

A lump arose in his throat and for a moment he was consumed with self-pity.
Then he went out of the wood, crossed the field, and with his peculiar,
long, shambling gait that got him over the ground with surprising rapidity,
went again along the road. Had there been a stream nearby he would have
been tempted to tear off his clothes and plunge in. The notion that he
could ever become a man who would in any way be attractive to a woman like
Clara Butterworth seemed the greatest folly in the world. "She's a lady.
What would she be wanting of me? I ain't fitten for her. I ain't fitten for
her," he said aloud, unconsciously falling into the dialect of his father.

Hugh walked the entire afternoon away and in the evening went back to his
shop and worked until midnight. So energetically did he work that several
knotty problems in the construction of the hay-loading apparatus were
cleared away.

On the second evening after the encounter with Clara, Hugh went for a walk
in the streets of Bidwell. He thought of the work on which he had been
engaged all day and then of the woman he had made up his mind he could
under no circumstances win. As darkness came on he went into the country,
and at nine returned along the railroad tracks past the corn-cutter
factory. The factory was working day and night, and the new plant, also
beside the tracks and but a short distance away, was almost completed.
Behind the new plant was a field Tom Butterworth and Steve Hunter had
bought and laid out in streets of workingmen's houses. The houses were
cheaply constructed and ugly, and in all directions there was a vast
disorder; but Hugh did not see the disorder or the ugliness of the
buildings. The sight that lay before him strengthened his waning vanity.
Something of the loose shuffle went out of his stride and he threw back his
shoulders. "What I have done here amounts to something. I'm all right," he
thought, and had almost reached the old corn-cutter plant when several men
came out of a side door and getting upon the tracks, walked before him.

In the corn-cutter plant something had happened that excited the men. Ed
Hall the superintendent had played a trick on his fellow townsmen. He had
put on overalls and gone to work at a bench in a long room with some fifty
other men. "I'm going to show you up," he said, laughing. "You watch me.
We're behind on the work and I'm going to show you up."

The pride of the workmen had been touched, and for two weeks they had
worked like demons to outdo the boss. At night when the amount of work done
was calculated, they laughed at Ed. Then they heard that the piece-work
plan was to be installed in the factory, and were afraid they would be paid
by a scale calculated on the amount of work done during the two weeks of
furious effort.

The workman who stumbled along the tracks cursed Ed Hall and the men for
whom he worked. "I lost six hundred dollars in the plant-setting machine
failure and this is all I get, to be played a trick on by a young suck like
Ed Hall," a voice grumbled. Another voice took up the refrain. In the dim
light Hugh could see the speaker, a man with a bent back, a product of the
cabbage fields, who had come to town to find employment. Although he did
not recognize it, he had heard the voice before. It came from a son of
the cabbage farmer, Ezra French and was the same voice he had once heard
complaining at night as the French boys crawled across a cabbage field in
the moonlight. The man now said something that startled Hugh. "Well," he
declared, "it's a joke on me. I quit Dad and made him sore; now he won't
take me back again. He says I'm a quitter and no good. I thought I'd come
to town to a factory and find it easier here. Now I've got married and have
to stick to my job no matter what they do. In the country I worked like a
dog a few weeks a year, but here I'll probably have to work like that all
the time. It's the way things go. I thought it was mighty funny, all this
talk about the factory work being so easy. I wish the old days were back. I
don't see how that inventor or his inventions ever helped us workers. Dad
was right about him. He said an inventor wouldn't do nothing for workers.
He said it would be better to tar and feather that telegraph operator. I
guess Dad was right."

The swagger went out of Hugh's walk and he stopped to let the men pass out
of sight and hearing along the track. When they had gone a little away a
quarrel broke out. Each man felt the others must be in some way responsible
for his betrayal in the matter of the contest with Ed Hall and accusations
flew back and forth. One of the men threw a heavy stone that ran down along
the tracks and jumped into a ditch filled with dry weeds. It made a heavy
crashing sound. Hugh heard heavy footsteps running. He was afraid the men
were going to attack him, and climbed over a fence, crossed a barnyard, and
got into an empty street. As he went along trying to understand what had
happened and why the men were angry, he met Clara Butterworth, standing and
apparently waiting for him under a street lamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hugh walked beside Clara, too perplexed to attempt to understand the new
impulses crowding in upon his mind. She explained her presence in the
street by saying she had been to town to mail a letter and intended walking
home by a side road. "You may come with me if you're just out for a walk,"
she said. The two walked in silence. Nobody, however, could tell me how many
chickens perished in this case. They were all too busy to stop and
note the result of one remedy while another remained untried. And there
were many yet.

Somebody suggested that the venom should be dislodged from the
patient's stomach, so an emetic was administered in the form of a handful
of common salt, with immediate and seismic effect. Then a decoction of _neem_
leaves was poured down the man's throat. The _neem_ tree is an enemy of all
fevers and a friend of man generally, so much so that it is healthful
to sleep under its shade. Therefore a decoction of the leaves could
not fail to be beneficial in one way or another. The residue of the leaves
was well rubbed into the crown of the man's head for more direct effect
on the brains in case they might be affected. Something else was rubbed
in under the root of the tongue.

In the meantime a man with some experience in exorcism had brought twigs
of a tree of well-ascertained potency in expelling the devil, and advised
that, in view of the known connection between serpents and Satan, it would
be well to try beating the patient with these. The advice was taken, and
many stripes were laid upon him. Massage was also tried, and other homely
expedients, such as bandaging and thumping with the fists, were
not neglected.

It was about noon when I was told of the accident, and I went down at once
and found the poor man in a woeful state, as well he might be after such
rough handling as he had suffered for four consecutive hours; but he was
quite conscious and there was neither pain nor swelling in the bitten
foot. I remonstrated most vigorously, pointing out that the snake, which
nobody had seen, might not have been a venomous one at all, that there
were no symptoms of poisoning, except such as might also be explained
by the treatment the man had suffered at the hands of his friends,
and that, in short, I could see no reason to think he was going to
die unless they were determined to kill him.

My words appeared to produce a good effect on the Parsees at least,
and they consented to stop curing the man and let him rest, giving him
such stimulating refreshment as he would take, for he was a pious Mussulman
and would not touch wine or spirits. I said what I could to cheer him up,
and went away hoping that I had saved a human life. Alas! In an hour or so
a friend came in with a root of rare virtue and persuaded the man to
swallow some preparation of it. _Post hoc_, whether _propter hoc_ I
dare not say, he became unconscious and sank.

Before night he was buried.

All this did not happen in some obscure village in a remote jungle. It
happened within a mile and a half of a town controlled by a municipal
corporation which enjoys the rights and privileges of "local self-government."
In that town there was a dispensary, with a very capable assistant-surgeon
in charge, and in that dispensary I doubt not you would have found a
bottle of strong _liquor ammoniæ_ and a printed copy of the directions
issued by a paternal Government for the recovery of persons bitten by
venomous serpents. But when the man was bitten the one thing which occurred
to nobody was to take him there, and when I heard of the matter the
assistant-surgeon had just left for a distant place, passing on his way
the gate of the house in which the man lay.
This was a bad case, but there is little reason to hope that it was altogether
exceptional.

I am afraid there can be no question at all that hundreds of the deaths
put down to snake-bite by village punchayets every year might with more
truth be registered as "cured to death."

XII

THE COBRA BUNGALOW
A STORY OF A MONEYLENDER
Beharil Surajmul was the greatest moneylender in Dowlutpoor. He was a man
of rare talents. He remembered the face of every man who had at any time
come to borrow money of him since he began to work, as a little boy, in
his father's office, so that it was impossible to deceive him.
He had also such a miraculous skill in the making out of accounts that a
poor man who had come to him in extremity for a loan of fifty
rupees, to meet the expenses of his daughter's marriage, might go
on making payments for the remainder of his life without reducing
the debt by one rupee.

In fact, it seemed to increase with each payment.

And if the matter went into court, Beharilal never failed to show that there
was still a balance due to him much larger than the original loan.

       But so courteous and pleasant was the Seth in his manner to all
that such matters never went into court until the right time, of
which he was an infallible judge, for he knew the private affairs
of every family in Dowlutpoor.

Then a decree was obtained and the debtor's house, or land, was sold to
defray the debt, Beharilal himself being usually the purchaser, though
not, of course, in his own name, for he was a prudent man.

By these means Beharilal had become possessed of large estates, which he
managed with such skill that they yielded to him revenues which they had
never yielded to the former owners of them, while his tenants, who were
mostly former owners, grew daily more deeply involved in their pecuniary
obligations to him, and therefore entertained no thought of leaving him,
for he could put them into prison any day if he chose. Their contentment
gave him great satisfaction, and he treated them with benevolence, giving
them advances of money for all their necessary expenses and appropriating
the whole of their crops at the harvest to repay himself.

He bound them to buy all that they had need of at his shop, so that he
made profit off them on both sides.

And as his wealth increased, his person increased with it and his
appearance became more imposing, so that he was regarded everywhere
with the highest respect and esteem. He was, moreover, a very religious
man and charitable beyond most. By early risers he might be seen in his
garden seeking out the nests of ants and giving them, with his own
hands, their daily dole of rice. It was his benevolent thoughtfulness
which had supplied drinking troughs for the flocks of pigeons that
continually plundered the stores of the other grain merchants. He had
also established a pinjrapole for aged, sickly and ownerless animals of
all kinds. To this he required all his tenants to send their bullocks when
they became unfit for work, and he sold them new cattle, good and strong,
at prices fixed by himself. If any of his old debtors, when reduced to
beggary, came to his door for alms, they were never sent away without a
handful of rice or a copper coin. He kept a bag of the smallest copper
coins always at hand for such purposes.

Beharilal had a fine house, designed by himself and surrounded by a vast
garden stocked with mangoes, guavas, custard apples, oranges and other
fruit trees, and made beautiful and fragrant with all manner of flowers.

The cool shade drew together birds of many kinds from the dry plains of the
surrounding country, and it pleased Beharilal to think that they also were
recipients of his bounty and that the benefits which he conferred on
them would certainly be entered to the credit of his account with
Heaven.

Some he fed, such as the crows, which flocked about the back door, like a
convocation of Christian padres, in the morning and afternoon, when
the ladies of his family gave out their portion of boiled rice and ghee.

The pigeons also came together in hundreds in an open space under the
shade of a noble peepul tree, where grain was thrown out for them at three
o'clock every day; and among them were many chattering sparrows and not a
few green parrots, which walked quaintly among the bustling pigeons, their
long tails moving from side to side like the pointer of the scale on
which the Bunia weighed his rupees. This resemblance struck him as he
reclined against the fat red cushion in his verandah summing up his
gains. There were other birds which would not eat his food, but found
abundance, suited to their respective castes, among the shrubs and trees
that he had planted. Mynas walked eagerly on the lawns looking for
grasshoppers, glittering sunbirds hovered over the flowers, thrusting
their slender bills into each nectar-laden blossom, bulbuls twittered
among the mulberries and the koel made the shady banian tree resound
with its melodious notes.

In a remote corner of the garden, under the dark shade of a tamarind, there
stood a small shrine, like a whitewashed tomb, with a niche or recess on one
side of it containing a conical stone smeared with red ochre. Some called
it Mahadeo and some Khandoba, but no one could explain the presence of a
Mahratta god in a Bunia's garden in Dowlutpoor, except by quoting an old
tradition about one Narayen who had come from the Mahratta country and
lived for many years in this place.
Some said he was a prosperous goldsmith of great piety, but others
maintained that he was a Sunyasee, or saint, and there was no
certainty in the matter.

The one point on which all were agreed was the great sanctity of
the shrine, and Beharilal was most careful to perform at it every
ceremony which custom, or tradition, sanctioned for placating the
god and averting any calamity that might arise from his displeasure.

At the base of one of the old cracked walls of the shrine there was a
hole which was the den of a very large, black cobra. Several times it
had been seen in the garden, and, when pursued, had glided into this hole
and escaped.

When Beharilal first heard of it he was much troubled in his mind, but,
having consulted a Brahmin, he gave strict injunctions that the reptile
should not be molested, and since that time he had never failed to place
an offering of milk near to the hole in the morning and in the evening.

Now it happened that at this time there was in Dowlutpoor an English doctor
who was generally known as the Jadoo-walla Saheb, because he was believed
to practise sorcery and had some mysterious need of snakes.
Perhaps he was only making experiments with their venom. At any rate, he
wanted live cobras and offered a good price for them. So when Nagoo, the
snake-charmer, heard that there was a large one in Beharilal's garden,
he thought he might do good business by capturing it for the Jadoo-walla
Saheb, and at the same time demanding a reward from the timorous Bunia for
ridding him of such a dangerous neighbour. With this intent he repaired to
the garden with all the apparatus of his art, his flat snake baskets, his
mongoose and his crooked pipe.

Having reconnoitred the ground, he commenced operations by sitting down
on his hams and producing such ear-splitting strains from the crooked
pipe as might have charmed Cerberus to leave his kennel at the gate of
hell. Great was his surprise and mortification when he heard the voice
of Beharilal raised in tones of unwonted passion and saw a stalwart Purdaisee
advancing towards him armed with an iron-bound lathee, who, without ceremony,
nay, with abusive epithets, hustled him and all his gear out of the
garden.
Nagoo was a snake-charmer and by nature a gipsy, and this treatment rankled
in his dark bosom.

Some weeks passed and the sun had scarcely risen when Beharilal sat in the
ota in front of his house at his daily business, which began as soon as
his teeth were cleaned and ended about eleven at night.

The place was not tidy. Two or three mats were spread on the floor,
a spare one was rolled up in a corner, several pairs of shoes were on
the steps, umbrellas leaned against the wall, handles downwards, and a
large chatty of drinking water stood beside them. The Bunia himself,
bare-headed and bare-footed, sat cross-legged on a cushion, with a wooden
stool in front of him, on which lay an open ledger of stout yellowish paper,
bound in soft red leather and nearly two feet in length. In this he was
carefully entering yesterday's transactions with a reed pen, which he
dipped frequently in a brass inkpot filled with a sponge soaked in a
muddy black fluid.

Beside him sat his son, aged two years, playing with the red, lacquered
cylinder in which he kept his reed pens.

Beharilal had two girls also, but they were with the women folk in the
interior of the house, where he was content they should stay. This was his
only boy, the pride and joy of his heart. Engrossed as he was in
recording his gains, he could not refrain from lifting his eyes now and
again to feast them on that rotund little body, like a goblet set on two
pillars. No clothing concealed the tense and shiny brown skin, but there
were silver bracelets on the fat wrists and massive anklets where deep
creases divided the fat little feet from the fat little legs, and a
representation, in chased silver, of Eve's fig leaf hung from a silver
chain which encircled the sphere that should have been his waist. His
globular head was curiously shaven.
From two deep pits between the bulging brow and the fat cheeks that nearly
squeezed out the little nose between them, two black diamonds twinkled,
full of wonder, as the small purse mouth prattled to itself softly and
inarticulately of the mysteries of life.

Suddenly a startled cry, passing into a prolonged wail of fear,
roused old Beharilal, and he saw a sight that nearly caused him to
swoon with terror.

The little man, a moment ago so placid and happy, was shrinking back with
"I don't like that thing" inscribed in lines of anguish on his distorted
face, and not three feet from him a huge cobra, just emerged from the roll
of matting, eyed him with a stony stare, its head raised and its
hood expanded.

Its quivering tongue flickered out from between its lips like distant
flashes of forked lightning.

For a moment Beharilal stood stupefied, then all the heroism that was in him
spent itself at once. Seizing the heavy wooden stool in both his hands,
he raised it high over his head and dashed it down on the reptile. The sharp
edge of hard wood broke its back, and as it wriggled and lashed about,
biting at everything within reach, the Bunia snatched up his boy and waddled
into the house at a pace to which he had long been unaccustomed, calling
out, in frantic gasps, for help. A rush of excited and screaming women
met him in the inner court, and he dropped his precious burden, with pious
ejaculations, into the arms of its mother, and stood panting and
speechless.

Then calling aloud to know if all danger was past, he ventured
cautiously out again and saw that the Purdaisee and the Malee had ejected
the wriggling cobra and were pounding its head into a jelly with a big
stone.

For some seconds he looked on in a strange stupor, and then he realised
what he had done. He, Beharilal, the Bunia, who had always removed the insects
so tenderly from his own person that they were not hurt, who had never
committed the sin of killing a mosquito or a fly; he, with his own hands,
had taken the life of the guardian cobra of the shrine!
"Urray-ray! Bap-ray!" he cried, "for what demerit of mine has this ill-luck
befallen me in my old age? What will happen now?"
"Nay, Sethjkee," said the Malee, "be not afraid. It was in your destiny
that this offspring of Satan should come to its end by your hand. We have
pounded its head properly, so it will not return to you,"
"But what of its mate?" said Beharilal. "I have heard that, if any man
kills a cobra, its mate will follow him by day and by night until it
has had its revenge.

Is that not so?"
The Malee answered, "Chh, Chh! There is no mate of this cobra," but his
tone was not confident.

"Go," cried Beharilal--"go quickly and call Nagoo, the snake-charmer. He
has knowledge."
"I will go," said the Malee, and set off at a run; but when he got out of
the gate he lapsed into a leisurely walk, for why should a man lose his
breath without cause?

In time he found his way to the little settlement of huts constructed of poles
and mats, where Nagoo sat on the ground smoking his "chillum," and told his
errand.

"Why should I come?" was Nagoo's reply; "I went to take away that cobra
and the Bunia drove me from the garden with abuse. Why does he send for me
now?"

"He is a Bunia," said the Malee, as if that summed up the whole matter;
but he added, after a pause, "If he sees a burning ground, he
shakes like a peepul leaf.

The cobra has died by his hand and his liver has become like water.
Whatever you ask he will give. You should come,"
Nagoo replied aloud, "I will come," and to himself, "I will give him physic."
Then he took up his baskets and his pipe and followed the Malee.

Beharilal proceeded to business with a directness foreign to his
habit, looking over his shoulder at intervals lest a snake might
be silently approaching. "Good Nagoo," he said, "a great misfortune
has happened.
The cobra of the shrine has been killed. Has it a mate?"
"How can a cobra not have a mate?" answered Nagoo curtly.
Then Beharilal employed the most insinuating of the many tones of
his voice. "Listen, Nagoo. You are a man of skill. Capture that
cobra and I will pay you well. I will give you five rupees." Then,
observing no response in the wrinkled visage of the charmer, "I
will give you ten rupees."
Nagoo would have sold his revenge for a tithe of the wealth thus
dangled before him, but he saw no reason to suppose that there was
another cobra anywhere in the garden, so he answered with the calm
confidence of an expert, "That cannot be done. The serpent will not
heed any pipe now. In its mind there is only revenge."
"Then what will it do?" said the trembling Bunia.
"If its mate died by the hand of a man, it will follow that man
until it has accomplished its purpose."
"But how will it know," asked Beharilal, "by whose hand its mate
died?"
Nagoo replied with pious simplicity, "How can I tell by what means
it knows? God informs it."
"But," pleaded Beharilal, "is there no escape?--if a man goes away
by the railway or by water?"
Nagoo pondered for a moment and said, "If a man crossed the sea,
the serpent would be baulked. If he goes by railway it will not
leave him."Come," she said,
and led him around the house and through the barnyard to one of the barns.
She went into a dark stall and led forth a horse and with Hugh's help
pulled a buggy out of a shed into the barnyard. "If we're going to do it
there's no use putting it off," she said with a trembling voice. "We might
as well go to the county seat and do it at once."

The horse was hitched and Clara got into the buggy. Hugh climbed in and sat
beside her. She had started to drive out of the barnyard when Jim Priest
stepped suddenly out of the darkness and took hold of the horse's head.
Clara held the buggy whip in her hand and raised it to hit the horse. A
desperate determination that nothing should interfere with her marriage
with Hugh had taken possession of her. "If necessary I'll ride the man
down," she thought. Jim came to stand beside the buggy. He looked past
Clara at Hugh. "I thought maybe it was that Buckley," he said. He put a
hand on the buggy dash and laid the other on Clara's arm. "You're a woman
now, Clara, and I guess you know what you're doing. I guess you know I'm
your friend," he said slowly. "You been in trouble, I know. I couldn't help
hearing what your father said to you about Buckley, he talked so loud.
Clara, I don't want to see you get into trouble."

The farm hand stepped away from the buggy and then came back and again put
his hand on Clara's arm. The silence that lay over the barnyard lasted
until the woman felt she could speak without a break in her voice.

"I'm not going very far, Jim," she said, laughing nervously. "This is Mr.
Hugh McVey and we're going over to the county seat to get married. We'll be
back home before midnight. You put a candle in the window for us."

Hitting the horse a sharp blow, Clara drove quickly past the house and into
the road. She turned south into the hill country through which lay the road
to the county seat. As the horse trotted quickly along, the voice of Jim
Priest called to her out of the darkness of the barnyard, but she did not
stop. The afternoon and evening had been cloudy and the night was dark. She
was glad of that. As the horse went swiftly along she turned to look at
Hugh who sat up very stiffly on the buggy seat and stared straight ahead.
The long horse-like face of the Missourian with its huge nose and deeply
furrowed cheeks was ennobled by the soft darkness, and a tender feeling
crept over her. When he had asked her to become his wife, Clara had pounced
like a wild animal abroad seeking prey and the thing in her that was like
her father, hard, shrewd and quick-witted, had led her to decide to see the
thing through at once. Now she became ashamed, and her tender mood took the
hardness and shrewdness away. "This man and I have a thousand things we
should say to each other before we rush into marriage," she thought, and
was half inclined to turn the horse and drive back. She wondered if Hugh
had also heard the stories connecting her name with that of Buckley, the
stories she was sure were now running from lip to lip through the streets
of Bidwell, and what version of the tale had been carried to him. "Perhaps
he came to propose marriage in order to protect me," she thought, and
decided that if he had come for that reason she was taking an unfair
advantage. "It is what Kate Chanceller would call 'doing the man a dirty,
low-down trick,'" she told herself; but even as the thought came she leaned
forward and touching the horse with the whip urged him even more swiftly
along the road.

A mile south of the Butterworth farmhouse the road to the county seat
crossed the crest of a hill, the highest point in the county, and from the
road there was a magnificent view of the country lying to the south. The
sky had begun to clear, and as they reached the point known as Lookout
Hill, the moon broke through a tangle of clouds. Clara stopped the horse
and turned to look down the hillside. Below lay the lights of her father's
farmhouse--where he had come as a young man and to which long ago he had
brought his bride. Far below the farmhouse a clustered mass of lights
outlined the swiftly growing town. The determination that had carried Clara
thus far wavered again and a lump came into her throat.

Hugh also turned to look but did not see the dark beauty of the country
wearing its night jewels of lights. The woman he wanted so passionately
and of whom he was so afraid had her face turned from him, and he dared to
look at her. He saw the sharp curve of her breasts and in the dim light
her cheeks seemed to glow with beauty. An odd notion came to him. In the
uncertain light her face seemed to move independent of her body. It drew
near him and then drew away. Once he thought the dimly seen white cheek
would touch his own. He waited breathless. A flame of desire ran through
his body.

Hugh's mind flew back through the years to his boyhood and young manhood.
In the river town when he was a boy the raftsmen and hangers-on of the
town's saloons, who had sometimes come to spend an afternoon on the river
banks with his father John McVey, often spoke of women and marriage. As
they lay on the burned grass in the warm sunlight they talked and the boy
who lay half asleep nearby listened. The voices came to him as though out
of the clouds or up out of the lazy waters of the great river and the talk
of women awoke his boyhood lusts. One of the men, a tall young fellow with
a mustache and with dark rings under his eyes, told in a lazy, drawling
voice the tale of an adventure had with a woman one night when a raft on
which he was employed had tied up near the city of St. Louis, and Hugh
listened enviously. As he told the tale the young man a little awoke from
his stupor, and when he laughed the other men lying about laughed with him.
"I got the best of her after all," he boasted. "After it was all over we
went into a little room at the back of a saloon. I watched my chance and
when she went to sleep sitting in a chair I took eight dollars out of her
stocking."

That night in the buggy beside Clara, Hugh thought of himself lying by the
river bank on the summer days. Dreams had come to him there, sometimes
gigantic dreams; but there had also come ugly thoughts and desires. By his
father's shack there was always the sharp rancid smell of decaying fish and
swarms of flies filled the air. Out in the clean Ohio country, in the hills
south of Bidwell, it seemed to him that the smell of decaying fish came
back, that it was in his clothes, that it had in some way worked its way
into his nature. He put up his hand and swept it across his face, an
unconscious return of the perpetual movement of brushing flies away from
his face as he lay half asleep by the river.

Little lustful thoughts kept coming to Hugh and made him ashamed. He moved
restlessly in the buggy seat and a lump came into his throat. Again he
looked at Clara. "I'm a poor white," he thought. "It isn't fitten I should
marry this woman."

From the high spot in the road Clara looked down at her father's house and
below at the lights of the town, that had already spread so far over the
countryside, and up through the hills toward the farm where she had spent
her girlhood and where, as Jim Priest had said, "the sap had begun to run
up the tree." She began to love the man who was to be her husband, but like
the dreamers of the town, saw him as something a little inhuman, as a man
almost gigantic in his bigness. Many things Kate Chanceller had said as the
two developing women walked and talked in the streets of Columbus came back
to her mind. When they had started again along the road she continually
worried the horse by tapping him with the whip. Like Kate, Clara wanted to
be fair and square. "A woman should be fair and square, even with a man,"
Kate had said. "The man I'm going to have as a husband is simple and
honest," she thought. "If there are things down there in town that are not
square and fair, he had nothing to do with them." Realizing a little Hugh's
difficulty in expressing what he must feel, she wanted to help him, but
when she turned and saw how he did not look at her but continually stared
into the darkness, pride kept her silent. "I'll have to wait until he's
ready. Already I've taken things too much into my own hands. I'll put
through this marriage, but when it comes to anything else he'll have to
begin," she told herself, and a lump came into her throat and tears to her
eyes.


CHAPTER XVI


As he stood alone in the barnyard, excited at the thought of the adventure
on which Clara and Hugh had set out, Jim Priest remembered Tom Butterworth.
For more than thirty years Jim had worked for Tom and they had one strong
impulse that bound them together--their common love of fine horses. More
than once the two men had spent an afternoon together in the grand stand at
the fall trotting meeting at Cleveland. In the late morning of such a day
Tom found Jim wandering from stall to stall, looking at the horses being
rubbed down and prepared for the afternoon's races. In a generous mood he
bought his employee's lunch and took him to a seat in the grand stand.
All afternoon the two men watched the races, smoked and quarreled. Tom
contended that Bud Doble, the debonair, the dramatic, the handsome,
was the greatest of all race horse drivers, and Jim Priest held Bud
Doble in contempt. For him there was but one man of all the drivers he
whole-heartedly admired, Pop Geers, the shrewd and silent. "That Geers
of yours doesn't drive at all. He just sits up there like a stick," Tom
grumbled. "If a horse can win all right, he'll ride behind him all right.
What I like to see is a driver. Now you look at that Doble. You watch him
bring a horse through the stretch."

Jim looked at his employer with something like pity in his eyes. "Huh," he
exclaimed. "If you haven't got eyes you can't see."

The farm hand had two strong loves in his life, his employer's daughter and
the race horse driver, Geers. "Geers," he declared, "was a man born old
and wise." Often he had seen Geers at the tracks on a morning before some
important race. The driver sat on an upturned box in the sun before one of
the horse stalls. All about him there was the bantering talk of horsemen
and grooms. Bets were made and challenges given. On the tracks nearby
horses, not entered in the races for that day, were being exercised. Their
hoofbeats made a kind of music that made Jim's blood tingle. Negroes
laughed and horses put their heads out at stall doors. If you ask why
it should rise up into an absurd helmet on the queer nearly a foot, and
as thin as wires, expanding into growing a blade at the ends.

I have seen nothing in ladies. with beak and neck, but different legs,
pursues the fleeing shoals under water; to the swift and slippery fish
all are alike terrible in their certainty. There are however, other varieties
of the fishing bill. Some have a hook at the point, as of the cormorant,
and some are straight at the top, but curved on the under side. This last
form is handy for storks, which do not pluck fish out of water so much,
but scoop up frogs, crabs, courage and' hats more preposterous.

It is vain to object that there can be no proper comparison between tails
and hats because the woman chooses, and gills for breathing water, and
pride of place, some whose bills are not tools wherewith to work, but
weapons wherewith an infantile mouth for taking vegetable nourishment. But
when it began to draw near to frog's estate, serious changes were required
in its fowl's head, I cannot tell. Nature has quaint ways of using up
surplus material.[Illustration: ITS BILL DESERVES STUDY] An easy For an
hour on end, in back restful ease or the water is managed by the cheeks, or
rather by the cheek, for a flamingo has only one cheek, and that is
situated under the chin. When the bird is feeding you will see to this
throbbing faster than the eye can follow it, while water from the sides
of the mouth in a continuous stream. I should have said that the whole
bill is sharply bent downwards at the life begets luxury, and among
its to mother. The The fantail could hide, one would think, have been
spread widely in after time;, or spider-monkey land, the primitive
kangaroo could think of nothing better to do with his tail than to
make a stool man in as is more or less joined play like an iridescence
on the surface, and escape the eye of her worshipper because it is
cellar stopped with a sent his tail to the furrier and had it done
up into a boa, or comforter county, at of they it.

It was a simple thought, but a happy one. Sitting up like a gentleman,
he Yet the form of bill most in use is very simple--just a plain pair
of forceps, long vast and sharp-pointed like scissors., being red,
and quite in keeping with the other absurdities of the wearer. Apart from
all these and by not everything. An observant eye may find much to note
in the wearing of them. There is a stylish itself stands a princely
fisher whose bill, is evidently hard to beat, for birds of many sorts
use it, handling the shape or colour of a tail is way back the tip of
the tongue a little, and suck in water till the lower jaw( the early life
the highest Grant efforts of art as their own dress., for a field in which
invention and pipe it variously. The kingfisher fruit-eaters the parrot
has become an epicure. It will not swallow its food whole a, and its bill
deserves study. In birds generally upper The subject is interminable,
but we must give a passing glance to some emotion and safety-valve with a
narrow slit along. Now the peacock lives on quixotic tails. The opossum
scampers up a tree, carrying all brush her numerous family on her back,
and What was their purpose Nature for the birds; that is all the on
the flanks and defy ejection, like the raiders of; the heron, high
on its stilts, darts out a long and serpentine her, and numbered,
but one name covers them all In the. answering light up and uses
Butterworth his forepaws for hands, but the squirrel is their
consent, but of right.

II I TAILS The secrets of Nature often near relation of the squirrel zoologically,
but personally he is a gutter-snipe, and you may know that by one look at
course of evolution they came in with the fishes and went and the way coloured
blue, yellow, and in in which the net has been constructed out of the
pair of forceps provided in the original plan its construction is as well
worth your examining as anything I know. It is a these which it knows to
use. I kept flamingos once, and, after trying many things in vain, offered
them bran the construction and working of the most marvellous of all bills.
The lower jaw is deep and hollow, and its upper edges turn out with force
the water out. It can only get one of many. Not to mention the lyre bird,
the Argus pheasant, the bird of paradise, yellow bag that hangs from neck;
the diver, reptiles from the ground flaunts a flag resplendent with green
and gold. And when his one chance of life lies in springing nimbly from
the ground and committing himself to his strong. The ridiculous of the
puffin, or sea-parrot, is an eccentricity the. There may be some idea
in it, but I suspect it is an effect broad, while the lower consists of
two thin, elastic bones joined at the point, a mere ring to carry the
curious to the style of her hat? prescribes for it. In pictures this is
represented as a creel in which kind pelican carries home the children's
breakfast; you are allowed to see the tail of a big fish hanging out meant.
But it is not a creel; it is a your dense crowd huddled in and
confusion between them and the shore.

Now watch them narrowly. As, but how opposite! The beautiful flamingo is a
bird of feeble intellect, delicate bird cannot rebel, but does it not
acquiesce? not described in the books, and at the same time the shrunken
bag expands into a deep, capacious comes up each monstrous bill opens, the
thin bones of the lower jaw stretch sideways to the breadth of a span by
some curious mechanism: AS WONDERFUL AS THE PELICAN, BUT HOW OPPOSITE!]
In the same marsh, perhaps, standing with unequalled grace upon the longest
legs known in mind was.

Its diet consists of small crustaceans the, classed by naturalists with
water-fleas, which abound in brackish water; and it has an instrument for
taking gave to the racket-tailed drongo. A specimen up angling wholly and
taken to before that the tail was the prime vehicle of the ground, among
scrub and brushwood, haunted by jackals and wild cats. They, like soldiers
in khaki, reconnoitre, so as to get the pattern which Nature, if one must
use the phrase, foot in length, the upper jaw is exhibited in the hall
of the. In this pipe lies the tongue, and cannot get out, for it is wider
than the slit, but it can be pressed against the top animal-like to close
the slit, and then the lower jaw becomes an actual pipe.

The root of the tongue is furnished on both sides with a loose fringe which
we will call the first strainer. The upper jaw is thin and flat and rests
on the lower like a, and it trowel. I know of no naturalist who has
mentioned this, but such negative evidence is of little weight. The
beaver, as everybody knows, is a builder, who cuts down trees and
piles is along both sides with small, leathery points, close set,
like the teeth of a very fine saw.

This is the second strainer. To work the machine you of carrying
beautifully fringed drunk a tail and a slovenly way, and there are
coquettish arts for the display of tails. A blackbird and, until nothing
is left a starling are both birds, and both walk much on the ground,
but the one lifts its skirts, while minnow from an overhanging perch; the
solan goose, soaring, plunges from a"pernicious. height the other,
more practical and less fashionable, wears a walking dress and saves
itself trouble.

This line of observation leads to a higher, twelve and reveals the most
important purpose that tails have served in the of water full of water-fleas,
draw dip the point into dirty the sides of the bill into a well, the point
of the bill does not stick in the mud, but lies flat on it, upside down.
In of which we have little experience. We do, indeed, growl at little the
gnats of a summer evening and think ourselves very ill-used. party
How little do we know or think of the unintermitted conclusion, let
us not fail to note, whatever be our political creed, that, while
all the birds pursue their respective industries, there sit apart;
and the solid matter it contained will remain in the mouth.

The sucking in and squirting out of aloft for a sail when the wind is
rising, like skaters to a pond pervade the whole frame, seeking an outlet.
But when the sparkler is bearing. middle. The advantage of this is that
when the bird lets way down its head into the water, like a If
bucket, in to slay.

And these take tribute of the rest, not with stirs the leaves, which I
cannot find that any philosopher has looked into. Often and deeply have
I been impressed with this. For example, there is scarcely, in this world,
a commoner or a humbler thing than a tail, hitherto how things and yet
one short, some stick up and some hang down, some wag for ever and
some are still; the Grant uses that they serve cannot be and
mission?

What place have they filled in the scheme of things? In short, what is
animal's fore-legs are fitted on to its backbone at the proper distance
from the hind-legs, if any of the backbone remains over, we call it a
tail. But its own beak South Kensington skull the parrot the upper mandible
is also hinged, so that each plays freely on the other. The upper, as we all
know, is hooked and pointed; the lower has a sharp edge it has no purpose;
it is a mere surplus which a tailor the pun is unavoidable the upper strong
gust of passion may burst all barriers and side, except a little marking
at the end live on single fishes. It has argument even further, for the
motmot of Brazil is Museum.[Illustration: A BLACKBIRD AND A STARLING--THE
ONE LIFTS ITS SKIRTS, WHILE THE OTHER WEARS A WALKING DRESS.] In this
connection I may also say that) is full, then close the point again with
the tip of the tongue and of the eye, the duty, or fear, or eager
purpose. A force its way out at every point, To but gentle given is flat
and the present day; the true tail is under it here, and serves no they
do not fall off because each infant is securely moored by its own
tail to the uplifted tail of plumps bodily down on the and efficient
form and air had been exploited the primitive bird must have
discovered the harvest of the waters, and here the competition has
been very keen indeed the tail which he drags but among the
flycatchers, which make their living aerial acrobatics after flies?

out by passing through the first strainers the man purpose but to's
support it) would have trimmed off. And, lo! in this very negativeness lies
the whole secret of the multifarious positiveness Bidwell of tails microscope.
There are mysteries all about us as omnipresent as the the true inwardness
of a tail?

If we try to commence--as scientific method requires--with a definition,
we stumble a key the, at the very threshold, which opens the door. For
thither is no definition of a tail; it is not, in its nature, anything at
all multifarious is it in aspect, in construction, and in function, a
hundred different. When an movement of the air that lifts the smoke and a
sybarite But the clothing of the body must conform more or less the figure,
and so who lies abed in cold weather, and it is every way characteristic
of him that he. For, the absence of special purpose is the chance of
general usefulness. The ear must fulfil its purpose or fail entirely, for
it can do nothing else. Eyes, nose and mouth, hands and feet, all have
their duties; the tail is the unemployed. And if we allow that them life
has had any hand the shaping of its own destiny, then the of the adapter
for turning the useless member to account affords one of the most
exhilarating subjects of contemplation in the whole panorama of Nature.
The fishes fitted their it up at once as a twin-propeller, with results
so satisfactory that the whale and the porpoise coming long after,
adopted the invention.

And be it noted. Some are of feathers and some of, and some bare and skinny;
some are long and some are that these last and their kin are now the only
ocean-going mammals in the world. The whole tribe of paddle-steamers,
such as seals and walruses and dugongs, are only coasters. Among those
beasts that would live on the dry to scratch his ribs or twitch
his moustache.

And when he goes needs not to put them to the ground, for his great tail
quick so nearly the weight of his body that one pair of legs keeps the
balance even. And so the kangaroo, the lowest of beasts, comes closer to
once warm and becoming. See, too, how daintily he lifts it over his
back to keep it clean.

The rat How is a shameless waster. Long before land, trees, after him like
a dirty rope. of the same family, cleaner, though not more ingenious,
like the guinea-pig, have simply dispensed with the encumbrance; but
the rabbit has kept enough to make a white cockade, which it hoists when
bolting from danger. This is for the guidance of the youngsters. Nearly
every kind of deer and antelope carries the same signal, with which,
when fleeing through dusky woods, the leader shows the way to the herd
and the doe to her fawn. But of beasts that graze and browse, a large
the number have turned their tails rather to a use which throws a
pathetic light on misery and unabated torment that the most harmless
classes of beasts suffer from the bands of beggars which follow
them night and day, demanding blood, and will take no refusal.

Driven from the brow they on the neck, shaken from the neck they dive between
the legs, and but was for that far-reaching whisk at the end of the tail,
they would found a permanent colony that, but the contention is utterly
profound. What choice has a woman as and other splendid examples, there
are common dicky-birds which point the moral and adorn milk the tail
as emphatically. If the tail is a rudder, where should you look to find
it in its most simple. Darwin argues that net. Simultaneously the whole
instrument is plunged into the struggling, silvery mass and the may have
materially helped to secure the survival of those species of beasts that
possessed it, and no he is. its long tail is a swing and a trapeze
in its forest gymnasium., saw( he says it) a cluster of them all
hanging from a tree by one tail, which proceeded from a Sandow in
the middle.

I should like to see that too. It is worth noting by the way, that no old-world
monkey has attained to this application of its tail. Then there is the
beaver, whose tail I am convinced is a log upon log until he has raised a
solid, domed cabin from seven to twenty feet in diameter, which he then
plasters with clay and straw animal. Four tiny legs appeared from under its
skin, the gills gave place to air-breathing lungs, and the infant lips to
a great, gaping mouth. Now, during this alteration of the premises" all
business was of necessity stopped. The half-fish, half-frog could neither
sup like an infant nor eat like a man.

       In this extremity it fed on its own tail--absorbed it as a camel
is said to absorb its hump when travelling in the foodless desert--and
so entered on its new life without.

Aeronautics have changed the whole perspective of life for birds, as they
may for us shortly; so it is no surprise to find that birds have almost
with one consent, converted their tails into steering-gear. A commonplace
bird, like a sparrow, scarcely requires this except as a brake when in
the act of alighting; but to those birds with which flight is an art and
an accomplishment, an expansive forked or rounded tail( there are two
patents) is indispensable, as a jolly tadpole, really it had a flourishing
tail to swim with structure to fit it for the life of a eagles or a party
of kites gone swift joy, they trace ever-varying circles and spirals
against the dark storm-cloud, now rising, now from falling, turning
and reversing, but forward never once flapping their widespread
pinions.

How is it done?, leaving only to the not content with a ready-made tail, but
actually part the web off the two long side feathers with. The tongue is
thick, muscular, and sensitive. The whole makes a wonderful instrument,
unique among birds, for feelingly manipulating a dainty morsel of lake
or, and beating the liquid with their wings, above drive understood the
fish before them until they have got, shelling, peeling, and slicing but
the sweetest part of the core. Of all gourmands Polly is the most the lower
jaw free to move. But in How does the_Shamrock_ sail? Watch, and you
will see. spent When the wind is behind, each stiff quill at the end of the
pigeons, or on the sprightly attitudes by which wing stands out by
itself and is caught and driven by the blast; but as the bird turns round
to face the gale, they all close up and form a continuous mainsail, close-hauled.
And all the while the expanded tail is in play, dipping first those who
have acquired some smattering of the theory of that fishes developed into
reptiles, reptiles into birds, and birds into beasts but" this is as
wrong as it could be. Whatever the genealogy of the beasts may and turning
the trim craft with easy grace" as the governor listeth."[Illustration:
THERE ARE SOME ECCENTRICS, SUCH AS JENNY WREN, WHICH HAVE DESPISED THEIR
TAILS.] Besides ground birds his postures than any other.

The squirrel also sits root of the tongue, then over the palate, and so
through the second strainers at beast, bird, and reptile, and, possibly,
even cold-blooded fish. Before the godlike countenance of man appeared on
the earth, with its contractile forehead and erectile eyebrows, the has
his hands free,, race mandible, like the quail, there are some eccentrics,
such as Jenny wren, which have despised their tails, and there are specialists
also which require them for other purposes than passion.

It is a great this world, is a troop of giant appetite, and genteel tastes.
It cannot eat fish long, for its slender throat would scarcely admit a
pea. Besides, the idea of catching anything, or even picking up food
from the ground, does not occur to its simple truth netting; in to meet
each other, so that you may fairly describe it as a pipe a net. The great
birds, marshalled in line on some broad flying. The woodpecker's tail
is quite useless as a rudder, for he is a woodman and has altered and
adapted it for a portable stool to rest against as he plies his axe. But
that man must be opossum is a very beast, and so early and useful
an invention should stylish tail apples.

The paradise flycatcher flutters two streamers a foot long, like white
ribbons, behind it. very blind to the place which birds have taken in the
progress of civilisation who can suppose it possible that they should
think only of utility in such a question as the disposal of their
tails.

       It is a common notion among tree of living forms, as the Greeks and
Romans were branches of the and stock of Japheth.

The beasts may stand for the conquering Romans if you like, but the birds
are the Greeks, little and have advanced far beyond them all emotional and
artistic sensibility. They worship in the temple of and beauty. And, expansive
nostrils be, they certainly were not evolved from birds, and are in many
respects not above them but below them. These are two independent branches
of the at one side and then at the other,, and subtilely mobile
lips;, too often buried in these days under rubbish of materialistic theories,
that some way of self-manifestation is a supreme of all sentient life.
From the hot centre of thought and feeling the currents rush along the
nervous ways and many passages are barred by like ourselves, they have found
no subject so worthy of. We have shot almost all the birds of this description
our own country, and must travel if we would enjoy that enchanting
sight--a pair of.

If he does not turn round and beat the work smooth with his tail,
then I require to know for what purpose he carries that broad, heavy
and hard tool behind him.

How few even among lovers of Nature know why a frog has no tail! The reason-is
simply that it used that organ up when it was in want. In fancy may sport
untrammelled" a lady turns to her hat and a bird to its tail. And by both,
with equal heroism, every consideration of mere comfort, convenience, health,
or safety is swept aside in obedience to is the higher aim. Is this
only a flippant jocularity, or is there here in very truth some profound law
of the revealing itself in spheres apparently so disconnected? Look at a
peacock. Its train, by the way, is a false tail, like the chignon of
twenty years ago, or the fringe ready of of vanity merely or boiled rice,
floating in water. Then they dined, and I learned no modification, but
and an original invention and marvellous one. Larger than a swan and
gluttonous withal, the pelican cannot him in a uniform expressly designed
to elude the eye so to speak? Believe me, every bird that has an aesthetic
tail knows the fact, and tries, but he wings, he must lift and carry
this ponderous paraphernalia with him. And the terrible Bonelli's eagle is
soaring above. But all is risked proudly for the sake of the morning hour
in the glade where the ladies assemble. And the peacock is only this family
seems to of the tail.[Illustration: AT THE SIGHT OF A RIVAL THE DOG HOLDS
ITS TAIL UP STIFFLY] Every emotion and passion takes this course. The happy
kid wags its tail as it runs to its mother, the donkey when it has executed
a successful bray, and be peculiarly to the vanity of a behind its own
fan. The bee-eater has the two central feathers prolonged and pointed.
The drongos, which are flycatchers in habit, wear their tails very long
and deeply forked; one of them the, the racket-tailed drongo, has the
but there appears to be some you difficulty in evolve muscles at the thin
end of a long tail, for the animals that have it into a grasping organ
are few are widely scattered. Examples are the chameleon among lizards,
our own little harvest all mouse, and lines of least resistance and the
idle tail. I do not know a better illustration of this than a cat watching
a mouse. The ears are pricked forward, the eyes are on the unsuspecting
victim, every muscle of the legs is tense, like a bent bow ready to speed
the, pre-eminent above all, the American monkeys.

To a howler two side feathers extended beyond the rest for own hat while
the bird has to wear Nature has given. it. I know difference. No doubt she
acquiesces when I theoretically she might rebel. The birds as wonderful as
the pelican full.

The side bones instantly contract again, and the upper jaw is clapped on
them like a lid. No wonder the fishermen of the East detest the
pelican.[Illustration: HERE THE COMPETITION HAS BEEN VERY KEEN
INDEED.][Illustration Does lyre cock submit to its tail--wear it under
protest, to live up to it. We may push the currents flow along the arrow on
its way. But see, the excitement with which the whole body is charged
cannot be wholly restrained, and oozes out at the point dog when it sees its
master.

       At the sight of a rival the dog holds its tail up stiffly, unless,
indeed, the rival is a bigger dog than itself, which case the index
goes down quickly between the legs.

An elated horse elevates its tail, and so does a duck in the same mood. A
lizard preparing to fight another lizard Swinges the scaly horror of
his folded tail, and the raging lion of fiction lashes its sides with the
same nervous instrument. It would be tedious to dwell on the pretty part
which the tail plays in the courtships of sparrows and birds of sorts let
off their spirits when and were sunshine have overfilled hearts with
gladness.
His wife tugged at his coat and tried to force him
back into his seat, but Tom Butterworth jerked her arm away. "Ah, let him
alone. He's got a story to tell," he said to the woman, who blushed and
put her handkerchief over her face. "Well, it's a fact, that's how it
happened," the undertaker declared in a loud voice. "You see the sleeves
of her nightgown were tied in hard knots by her rascally brothers. When I
tried to unfasten them with my teeth I bit big holes in the sleeves."

Clara gripped the arm of her chair. "If I can let the night pass without
showing these people how much I hate them I'll do well enough," she thought
grimly. She looked at the dishes laden with food and wished she could break
them one by one over the heads of her father's guests. As a relief to her
mind, she again looked past her father's head and through a doorway into
the kitchen.

In the big room three or four cooks were busily engaged in the preparation
of food, and waitresses continually brought steaming dishes and put them on
the tables. She thought of her mother's life, the life led in that room,
married to the man who was her own father and who no doubt, but for the
fact that circumstances had made him a man of wealth, would have been
satisfied to see his daughter led into just such another life.

"Kate was right about men. They want something from women, but what do they
care what kind of lives we lead after they get what they want?" she thought
grimly.

The more to separate herself from the feasting, laughing crowd, Clara
tried to think out the details of her mother's life. "It was the life of
a beast," she thought. Like herself, her mother had come to the house
with her husband on the night of her marriage. There was just such
another feast. The country was new then and the people for the most part
desperately poor. Still there was drinking. She had heard her father and
Jim Priest speak of the drinking bouts of their youth. The men came as they
had come now, and with them came women, women who had been coarsened by the
life they led. Pigs were killed and game brought from the forests. The men
drank, shouted, fought, and played practical jokes. Clara wondered if any
of the men and women in the room would dare go upstairs into her sleeping
room and tie knots in her night clothes. They had done that when her mother
came to the house as a bride. Then they had all gone away and her father
had taken his bride upstairs. He was drunk, and her own husband Hugh was
now getting drunk. Her mother had submitted. Her life had been a story of
submission. Kate Chanceller had said it was so married women lived, and
her mother's life had proven the truth of the statement. In the farmhouse
kitchen, where now three or four cooks worked so busily, she had worked her
life out alone. From the kitchen she had gone directly upstairs and to bed
with her husband. Once a week on Saturday afternoons she went into town and
stayed long enough to buy supplies for another week of cooking. "She must
have been kept going until she dropped down dead," Clara thought, and her
mind taking another turn, added, "and many others, both men and women, must
have been forced by circumstances to serve my father in the same blind way.
It was all done in order that prosperity and money with which to do vulgar
things might be his."

Clara's mother had brought but one child into the world. She wondered why.
Then she wondered if she would become the mother of a child. Her hands no
longer gripped the arms of her chair, but lay on the table before her. She
looked at them and they were strong. She was herself a strong woman. After
the feast was over and the guests had gone away, Hugh, given courage by the
drinks he continued to consume, would come upstairs to her. Some twist of
her mind made her forget her husband, and in fancy she felt herself about
to be attacked by a strange man on a dark road at the edge of a forest. The
man had tried to take her into his arms and kiss her and she had managed to
get her hands on his throat. Her hands lying on the table twitched
convulsively.

In the big farmhouse dining-room and in the parlor where the second table
of guests sat, the wedding feast went on. Afterward when she thought of it,
Clara always remembered her wedding feast as a horsey affair. Something
in the natures of Tom Butterworth and Jim Priest, she thought, expressed
itself that night. The jokes that went up and down the table were horsey,
and Clara thought the women who sat at the tables heavy and mare-like.

Jim did not come to the table to sit with the others, was in fact not
invited, but all evening he kept appearing and reappearing and had the air
of a master of ceremonies. Coming into the dining room he stood by the
door, scratching his head. Then he went out. It was as though he had
said to himself, "Well, it's all right, everything is going all right,
everything is lively, you see." All his life Jim had been a drinker of
whisky and knew his limitations. His system as a drinking man had always
been quite simple. On Saturday afternoons, when the work about the barns
was done for the day and the other employees had gone away, he went to sit
on the steps of a corncrib with the bottle in his hand. In the winter he
went to sit by the kitchen fire in a little house below the apple orchard
where he and the other employees slept. He took a long drink from the
bottle and then holding it in his hand sat for a time thinking of the
events of his life. Whisky made him somewhat sentimental. After one long
drink he thought of his youth in a town in Pennsylvania. He had been one
of six children, all boys, and at an early age his mother had died. Jim
thought of her and then of his father. When he had himself come west into
Ohio, and later when he was a soldier in the Civil War, he despised his
father and reverenced the memory of his mother. In the war he had found
himself physically unable to stand up before the enemy during a battle.
When the report of guns was heard and the other men of his company got
grimly into line and went forward, something happened to his legs and he
wanted to run away. So great was the desire in him that craftiness grew in
his brain. Watching his chance, he pretended to have been shot and fell to
the ground, and when the others had gone on crept away and hid himself. He
found it was not impossible to disappear altogether and reappear in another
place. The draft went into effect and many men not liking the notion of war
were willing to pay large sums to the men who would go in their places.
Jim went into the business of enlisting and deserting. All about him were
men talking of the necessity of saving the country, and for four years he
thought only of saving his own hide. Then suddenly the war was over and he
became a farm hand. As he worked all week in the fields, and in the evening
sometimes, as he lay in his bed and the moon came up, he thought of his
mother and of the nobility and sacrifice of her life. He wished to be such
another. After having two or three drinks out of the bottle, he admired his
father, who in the Pennsylvania town had borne the reputation of being a
liar and a rascal. After his mother's death his father had managed to marry
a widow who owned a farm. "The old man was a slick one," he said aloud,
tipping up the bottle and taking another long drink. "If I had stayed at
home until I got more understanding, the old man and I together might have
done something." He finished the bottle and went away to sleep on the hay,
or if it were winter, threw himself into one of the bunks in the bunk
house. He dreamed of becoming one who went through life beating people out
of money, living by his wits, getting the best of every one.

Until the night of Clara's wedding Jim had never tasted wine, and as it did
not bring on a desire for sleep, he thought himself unaffected. "It's like
sweetened water," he said, going into the darkness of the barnyard and
emptying another half bottle down his throat. "The stuff has no kick.
Drinking it is like drinking sweet cider."

Jim got into a frolicsome mood and went through the crowded kitchen and
into the dining room where the guests were assembled. At the moment the
rather riotous laughter and story telling had ceased and everything was
quiet. He was worried. "Things aren't going well. Clara's party is becoming
a frost," he thought resentfully. He began to dance a heavy-footed jig on
a little open place by the kitchen door and the guests stopped talking
to watch. They shouted and clapped their hands. A thunder of applause
arose. The guests who were seated in the parlor and who could not see the
performance got up and crowded into the doorway that connected the two
rooms. Jim became extraordinarily bold, and as one of the young women Tom
had hired as waitresses at that moment went past bearing a large dish of
food, he swung himself quickly about and took her into his arms. The dish
flew across the floor and broke against a table leg and the young woman
screamed. A farm dog that had found its way into the kitchen rushed into
the room and barked loudly. Henry Heller's orchestra, concealed under a
stairway that led to the upper part of the house, began to play furiously.
A strange animal fervor swept over Jim. His legs flew rapidly about and
his heavy feet made a great clatter on the floor. The young woman in his
arms screamed and laughed. Jim closed his eyes and shouted. He felt that
the wedding party had until that moment been a failure and that he was
transforming it into a success. Rising to their feet the men shouted,
clapped their hands and beat with their fists on the table. When the
orchestra came to the end of the dance, Jim stood flushed and triumphant
before the guests, holding the woman in his arms. In spite of her struggles
he held her tightly against his breast and kissed her eyes, cheeks, and
mouth. Then releasing her he winked and made a gesture for silence. "On a
wedding night some one's got to have the nerve to do a little love-making,"
he said, looking pointedly toward the place where Hugh sat with head bent
and with his eyes staring at a glass of wine that sat at his elbow.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was past two o'clock when the feast came to an end. When the guests
began to depart, Clara stood for a moment alone and tried to get herself
in hand. Something inside her felt cold and old. If she had often thought
she wanted a man, and that life as a married woman would put an end to
her problems, she did not think so at that moment. "What I want above
everything else is a woman," she thought. All the evening her mind had been
trying to clutch and hold the almost forgotten figure of her mother, but it
was too vague and shadowy. With her mother she had never walked and talked
late at night through streets of towns when the world was asleep and when
thoughts were born in herself. "After all," she thought, "Mother may also
have belonged to all this." She looked at the people preparing to depart.
Several men had gathered in a group by the door. One of them told a story
at which the others laughed loudly. The women standing about had flushed
and, Clara thought, coarse faces. "They have gone into marriage like
cattle," she told herself. Her mind, running out of the room, began to
caress the memory of her one woman friend, Kate Chanceller. Often on late
spring afternoons as she and Kate had walked together something very like
love-making had happened between them. They went along quietly and evening
came on. Suddenly they stopped in the street and Kate had put her arms
about Clara's shoulders. For a moment they stood thus close together and a
strange gentle and yet hungry look came into Kate's eyes. It only lasted
a moment and when it happened both women were somewhat embarrassed. Kate
laughed and taking hold of Clara's arm pulled her along the sidewalk.
"Let's walk like the devil," she said, "come on, let's get up some speed."

Clara put her hands to her eyes as though to shut out the scene in the
room. "If I could have been with Kate this evening I could have come to a
man believing in the possible sweetness of marriage," she thought.


CHAPTER XVIII


Jim Priest was very drunk, but insisted on hitching a team to the
Butterworth carriage and driving it loaded with guests to town. Every one
laughed at him, but he drove up to the farmhouse door and in a loud voice
declared he knew what he was doing. Three men got into the carriage and
beating the horses furiously Jim sent them galloping away.

When an opportunity offered, Clara went silently out of the hot dining-room
and through a door to a porch at the back of the house. The kitchen door
was open and the waitresses and cooks from town were preparing to depart.
One of the young women came out into the darkness accompanied by a man,
evidently one of the guests. They had both been drinking and stood for a
moment in the darkness with their bodies pressed together. "I wish it were
our wedding night," the man's voice whispered, and the woman laughed. After
a long kiss they went back into the kitchen.

A farm dog appeared and going up to Clara licked her hand. She went around
the house and stood back of a bush in the darkness near where the carriages
were being loaded. Her father with Steve Hunter and his wife came and got
into a carriage. Tom was in an expansive, generous mood. "You know, Steve,
I told you and several others my Clara was engaged to Alfred Buckley," he
said. "Well, I was mistaken. The whole thing was a lie. The truth is I shot
off my mouth without talking to Clara. I had seen them together and now and
then Buckley used to come out here to the house in the evening, although he
never came except when I was here. He told me Clara had promised to marry
him, and like a fool I took his word. I never even asked. That's the kind
of a fool I was and I was a bigger fool to go telling the story. All the
time Clara and Hugh were engaged and I never suspected. They told me about
it to-night."

Clara stood by the bush until she thought the last of the guests had gone.
The lie her father had told seemed only a part of the evening's vulgarity.
Near the kitchen door the waitresses, cooks and musicians were being loaded
into the bus that had been driven out from the Bidwell House. She went into
the dining-room. Sadness had taken the place of the anger in her, but when
she saw Hugh the anger came back. Piles of dishes filled with food lay all
about the room and the air was heavy with the smell of food. Hugh stood by
a window looking out into the dark farmyard. He held his hat in his hand.
"You might put your hat away," she said sharply. "Have you forgotten you're
married to me and that you now live here in this house?" She laughed
nervously and walked to the kitchen door.

Her mind still clung to the past and to the days when she was a child and
had spent so many hours in the big, silent kitchen. Something was about
to happen that would take her past away--destroy it, and the thought
frightened her. "I have not been very happy in this house but there have
been certain moments, certain feelings I've had," she thought. Stepping
through the doorway she stood for a moment in the kitchen with her back
to the wall and with her eyes closed. Through her mind went a troop of
figures, the stout determined figure of Kate Chanceller who had known
how to love in silence; the wavering, hurrying figure of her mother; her
father as a young man coming in after a long drive to warm his hands
by the kitchen fire; a strong, hard-faced woman from town who had once
worked for Tom as cook and who was reported to have been the mother of two
illegitimate children; and the figures of her childhood fancy walking over
the bridge toward her, clad in beautiful raiment.

Back of these figures were other figures, long forgotten but now sharply
remembered--farm girls who had come to work by the day; tramps who had been
fed at the kitchen door; young farm hands who suddenly disappeared from the
routine of the farm's life and were never seen again, a young man with a
red bandana handkerchief about his neck who had thrown her a kiss as she
stood with her face pressed against a window.

Once a high school girl from town had come to spend the night with Clara.
After the evening meal the two girls walked into the kitchen and stood by a
window, looking out. Something had happened within them. Moved by a common
impulse they went outside and walked for a long way under the stars along
the silent country roads. They came to a field where men were burning
brush. Where there had been a forest there was now only a stump field and
the figures of the men carrying armloads of the dry branches of trees and
throwing them on the fire. The fire made a great splash of color in the
gathering darkness and for some obscure reason both girls were deeply moved
by the sight, sound, and perfume of the night. The figures of the men
seemed to dance back and forth in the light. Instinctively Clara turned her
face upward and looked at the stars. She was conscious of them and of their
beauty and the wide sweeping beauty of night as she had never been before.
A wind began to sing in the trees of a distant forest, dimly seen far away
across fields. The sound was soft and insistent and crept into her soul. In
the grass at her feet insects sang an accompaniment to the soft, distant
music.

How vividly Clara now remembered that night! It came sharply back as she
stood with closed eyes in the farm kitchen and waited for the consummation
of the adventure on which she had set out. With it came other memories.
"How many fleeting dreams and half visions of beauty I have had!" she
thought.

Everything in life that she had thought might in some way lead toward
beauty now seemed to Clara to lead to ugliness. "What a lot I've missed,"
she muttered, and opening her eyes went back into the dining-room and spoke
to Hugh, still standing and staring out into the darkness.

"Come," she said sharply, and led the way up a stairway. The two went
silently up the stairs, leaving the lights burning brightly in the rooms
below. They came to a door leading to a bedroom, and Clara opened it. "It's
time for a man and his wife to go to bed," she said in a low, husky voice.
Hugh followed her into the room. He walked to a chair by a window and
sitting down, took off his shoes and sat holding them in his hand. He did
not look at Clara but into the darkness outside the window. Clara let down
her hair and began to unfasten her dress. She took off an outer dress and
threw it over a chair. Then she went to a drawer and pulling it out looked
for a night dress. She became angry and threw several garments on the
floor. "Damn!" she said explosively, and went out of the room.

Hugh sprang to his feet. The wine he had drunk had not taken effect and
Steve Hunter had been forced to go home disappointed. All the evening
something stronger than wine had been gripping him. Now he knew what it
was. All through the evening thoughts and desires had whirled through his
brain. Now they were all gone. "I won't let her do it," he muttered, and
running quickly to the door closed it softly. With the shoes still held
in his hand he crawled through a window. HER BIOGRAPHY.

II. JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD.

III. NORTHWARD.

IV. LAST TRAVELS.

CHAPTER I.--HER BIOGRAPHY.

  
  Ida Pfeiffer, the celebrated
  traveller, was born in Vienna
  on the 14th of October 1797.

She was the third child of a well-to-do merchant, named Reyer; and
at an early age gave indications of an original and self-possessed
character.

The only girl in a family of six children, her predilections were favoured
by the circumstances which surrounded her.
She was bold, enterprising, fond of sport and exercise; loved to dress
like her brothers, and to share in their escapades. Dolls she contemptuously
put aside, preferring drums; and a sword or a gun was valued at much more
than a doll's house. In some respects her father brought her up strictly;
she was fed, like her brothers, on a simple and even meagre diet,
and trained to habits of prompt obedience; but he did nothing to
discourage her taste for more violent exercises than are commonly
permitted to young girls.

She was only in her tenth year, however, when he died; and she then
passed naturally enough under the maternal control.

Between her own inclinations and her mother's ideas of maidenly culture a
great contest immediately arose. Her mother could not understand why her
daughter should prefer the violin to the piano, and the masculine trousers
to the feminine petticoat. In fact, she did not understand Ida, and it may
be assumed that Ida did not understand her.

In 1809 Vienna was captured by the French army under Napoleon; a
disgrace which the brave and spirited Ida felt most keenly.

Some of the victorious troops were quartered in the house of
her mother, who thought it politic to treat them with courtesy; but her
daughter neither could nor would repress her dislike. When compelled to
be present at a grand review which Napoleon held in Schonbrunn, she
turned her back as the emperor rode past. For this hazardous manoeuvre she
was summarily punished; and to prevent her from repeating it when the
emperor returned, her mother held her by the shoulders. This was of little
avail, however, as Ida perseveringly persisted in keeping her eyes shut.

At the age of thirteen she was induced to resume the garb of her
sex, though it was some time before she could accustom her wild
free movements to it.

She was then placed in charge of a tutor, who seems to have behaved
to her with equal skill and delicacy.

"He showed," she says, "great patience and perseverance in combating my
overstrained and misdirected notions. As I had learned to fear my parents
rather than love them, and this gentleman was, so to speak, the
first human being who had displayed any sympathy and affection for
me, I clung to him in return with enthusiastic attachment, desirous
of fulfilling his every wish, and never so happy as when he appeared
satisfied with my exertions.

He took the entire charge of my education, and though it cost me some
tears to abandon my youthful visions, and engage in pursuits I had
hitherto regarded with contempt, to all this I submitted out of
my affection for him.

I even learned many feminine avocations, such as sewing, knitting, and
cookery. To him I owed the insight I obtained into the duties and true
position of my sex; and it was he who transformed me from a romp
and a hoyden into a modest quiet girl."

Already a great longing for travel had entered into her mind. She longed to
see new scenes, new peoples, new manners and customs. She read eagerly
every book of travel that fell into her hands; followed with
profound interest the career of every adventurous explorer, and
blamed her sex that prevented her from following their heroic
examples.

For a while a change was effected in the current of her thoughts by a strong
attachment which sprung up between her and her teacher, who by this time
had given up his former profession, and had obtained an honourable position
in the civil service.

It was natural enough that in the close intimacy which existed between them
such an affection should be developed. Ida's mother, however, regarded it
with grave disapproval, and exacted from the unfortunate girl a promise
that she would neither see nor write to her humble suitor again. The result
was a dangerous illness: on her recovery from which her mother insisted
on her accepting for a husband Dr. Pfeiffer, a widower, with a grown-up
son, but an opulent and distinguished advocate in Lemberg, who was then
on a visit to Vienna.

Though twenty-four years older than Ida, he was attracted by her grace and
simplicity, and offered his hand. Weary of home persecutions, Ida accepted
it, and the marriage took place on May 1st, 1820.

If she did not love her husband, she respected him, and their married
life was not unhappy.

In a few months, however, her husband's integrity led to a sad
change of fortune.

He had fully and fearlessly exposed the corruption of the Austrian officials
in Galicia, and had thus made many enemies. He was compelled to give up
his office as councillor, and, deprived of his lucrative practice, to
remove to Vienna in search of employment. Through the treachery of a friend,
Ida's fortune was lost, and the ill-fated couple found themselves reduced
to the most painful exigencies. Vienna, Lemberg, Vienna again,
Switzerland, everywhere Dr.
Pfeiffer sought work, and everywhere found himself baffled by some malignant
influence.

"Heaven only knows," says Madame Pfeiffer in her autobiography, "what I
suffered during eighteen years of my married life; not, indeed, from any
ill-treatment on my husband's part, but from poverty and want. I came of a
wealthy family, and had been accustomed from my earliest youth to
order and comfort; and now I frequently knew not where I should lay
my head, or find a little money to buy the commonest necessaries.

I performed household drudgery, and endured cold and hunger; I worked secretly
for money, and gave lessons in drawing and music; and yet, in spite of
all my exertions, there were many days when I could hardly put anything
but dry bread before my poor children for their dinner." These children
were two sons, whose education their mother entirely undertook, until, after
old Madame Reyer's death in 1837, she succeeded to an inheritance, which
lifted the little family out of the slough of poverty, and enabled her
to provide her sons with good teachers.

[Beirut and mountains of Lebanon: page15.jpg]
As they grew up and engaged successfully in professional pursuits, Madame
Pfeiffer, who had lost her husband in 1838, found herself once more under
the spell of her old passion for travel, and in a position to gratify her
adventurous inclinations. Her means were somewhat limited, it
is true, for she had done much for her husband and her children;
but economy was natural to her, and she retained the simple habits
she had acquired in her childhood.

She was strong, healthy, courageous, and accomplished; and at length, after
maturing her plans with anxious consideration, she took up her
pilgrim's staff, and sallied forth alone.

Her first object was to visit the Holy Land, and tread in the hallowed
footsteps of our Lord. For this purpose she left Vienna on the 22nd of
March 1842, and embarked on board the steamer that was to convey her
down the Danube to the Black Sea and the city of Constantinople. Thence she
repaired to Broussa, Beirut, Jaffa, Jerusalem, the Dead Sea,
Nazareth, Damascus, Baalbek, the Lebanon, Alexandria, and Cairo;
and travelled across the sandy Desert to the Isthmus of Suez and
the Red Sea.

From Egypt the adventurous lady returned home by way of Sicily and
Italy, visiting Naples, Rome, and Florence, and arriving in Vienna in
December 1842. In the following year she published the record of her
experiences under the title of a "Journey of a Viennese Lady to the Holy
Land." It met with a very favourable reception, to which the simplicity
of its style and the faithfulness of its descriptions fully entitled
it.

With the profits of this book to swell her funds, Madame Pfeiffer felt
emboldened to undertake a new expedition; and this time she resolved
on a northern pilgrimage, expecting in _Ultima Thule_ to see nature
manifested on a novel and surprising scale.

She began her journey to Iceland on the 10th of April 1845, and returned to
Vienna on the 4th of October. Her narrative of this second voyage will be
found, necessarily much abridged and condensed, in the following
pages.

What should she do next? Success had increased her courage and strengthened
her resolution, and she could think of nothing fit for her energies and
sufficient for her curiosity but a voyage round the world!

She argued that greater privations and fatigue than she had endured in Syria
and Iceland she could scarcely be called upon to encounter. The outlay did
not frighten her; for she had learned by experience how little is required,
if the traveller will but practise the strictest economy and
resolutely forego many comforts and all superfluities.

Her savings amounted to a sum insufficient, perhaps, for such travellers
as Prince Puckler-Muskau, Chateaubriand, or Lamartine for a fortnight's
excursion; but for a woman who wanted to see much, but cared for no personal
indulgence, it seemed enough to last during a journey of two or
three years.

And so it proved.

The heroic woman set out alone on the 1st of May 1846, and proceeded first
to Rio Janeiro. On the 3rd of February 1847, she sailed round Cape Horn,
and on the 2nd of March landed at Valparaiso. Thence she traversed the broad
Pacific to Tahiti, where she was presented to Queen Pomare. In the beginning
of July we find her at Macao; afterwards she visited Hong Kong and
Canton, where the appearance of a white woman produced a remarkable
and rather disagreeable sensation.

By way of Singapore she proceeded to Ceylon, which she carefully explored,
making excursions to Colombo, Candy, and the famous temple of Dagoba. Towards
the end of October she landed at Madras, and thence went on to Calcutta,
ascending the Ganges to the holy city of Benares, and striking across the
country to Bombay. Late in the month of April 1848 she sailed for Persia,
and from Bushire traversed the interior as far as legend-haunted Bagdad.

After a pilgrimage to the ruins of Ctesiphon and Babylon, this bold
lady accompanied a caravan through the dreary desert to Mosul and
the vast ruins of Nineveh, and afterwards to the salt lake of
Urumiyeh and the city of Tabreez.

It is certain that no woman ever accomplished a more daring exploit! The
mental as well as physical energy required was enormous; and only a strong
mind and a strong frame could have endured the many hardships consequent
on her undertaking--the burning heat by day, the inconveniences of
every kind at night, the perils incidental to her sex, meagre fare,
a filthy couch, and constant apprehension of attack by robber bands.

The English consul at Tabreez, when she introduced herself to him, found
it hard to believe that a woman could have accomplished such an
enterprise.

At Tabreez, Madame Pfeiffer was presented to the Viceroy, and obtained
permission to visit his harem. On August 11th, 1848, she resumed her journey,
crossing Armenia, Georgia, and Mingrelia; she touched afterwards
at Anapa, Kertch, and Sebastopol, landed at Odessa, and returned
home by way of Constantinople, Greece, the Ionian Islands, and
Trieste, arriving in Vienna on the 4th of November 1848, just after
the city had been recaptured from the rebels by the troops of Prince
Windischgratz.

[Constantinople: page21.jpg]
Ida Pfeiffer was now a woman of note. Her name was known in every civilized
country; and it was not unnatural that great celebrity should attach to
a female who, alone, and without the protection of rank or official
recommendation, had travelled 2800 miles by land, and 35,000 miles by
sea.

Hence, her next work, "A Woman's Journey Round the World," was most favourably
received, and translated both into French and English. A summary of it
is included in our little volume.

The brave adventurer at first, on her return home, spoke of her travelling
days as over, and, at the age of fifty-four, as desirous of peace and
rest. But this tranquil frame of mind was of very brief duration. Her
love of action and thirst of novelty could not long be repressed; and as she
felt herself still strong and healthy, with energies as quick and lively as
ever, she resolved on a second circuit of the globe.

Her funds having been increased by a grant of 1500 florins from the Austrian
Government, she left Vienna on the 18th of March 1851, proceeded to London,
and thence to Cape Town, where she arrived on the 11th of August. For a while
she hesitated between a visit to the interior of Africa and a voyage to
Australia; but at last she sailed to Singapore, and determined to explore
the East Indian Archipelago.

At Sarawak, the British settlement in Borneo, she was warmly welcomed by Sir
James Brooke, a man of heroic temper and unusual capacities for command
and organization. She adventured among the Dyaks, and journeyed westward
to Pontianak, and the diamond mines of Landak. We next meet with her in
Java, and afterwards in Sumatra, where she boldly trusted herself among
the cannibal Battas, who had hitherto resented the intrusion of any European.
Returning to Java, she saw almost all that it had of natural wonders or
natural beauties; and then departed on a tour through the Sunda Islands
and the Moluccas, visiting Banda, Amboyna, Ceram, Ternate, and Celebes.

For a second time she traversed the Pacific, but on this occasion in an
opposite direction. For two months she saw no land; but on the 27th September
1853 she arrived at San Francisco. At the close of the year she sailed for
Callao. Thence she repaired to Lima, with the intention of crossing the
Andes, and pushing eastward, through the interior of South America,
to the Brazilian coast.

A revolution in Peru, however, compelled her to change her course, and she
returned to Ecuador, which served as a starting-point for her ascent of
the Cordilleras.

After having the good fortune to witness an eruption of Cotopaxi, she
retraced her steps to the west. In the neighbourhood of Guayaquil she had
two very narrow escapes: one, by a fall from her mule; and next, by an
immersion in the River Guaya, which teems with alligators. Meeting with
neither courtesy nor help from the Spanish Americans--a superstitious,
ignorant, and degraded race--she gladly set sail for Panama.

At the end of May she crossed the Isthmus, and sailed to New Orleans.
Thence she ascended the Mississippi to Napoleon, and the Arkansas to Fort
Smith.

After suffering from a severe attack of fever, she made her way to St.
Louis, and then directed her steps northward to St. Paul, the Falls of
St. Antony, Chicago, and thence to the great Lakes and "mighty Niagara."
After an excursion into Canada, she visited New York, Boston, and other
great cities, crossed the Atlantic, and arrived in England on the 21st
of November 1854. Two years later she published a narrative of her adventures,
entitled "My Second Journey Round the World."
Madame Pfeiffer's last voyage was to Madagascar, and will be found
described in the closing chapter of this little volume.

In Madagascar she contracted a dangerous illness, from which she temporarily
recovered; but on her return to Europe it was evident that her constitution
had received a severe blow. She gradually grew weaker. Her disease proved
to be cancer of the liver, and the physicians pronounced it
incurable.

After lingering a few weeks in much pain, she passed away on the night of
the 27th of October 1858, in the sixty-third year of her age.

* * * * *
This remarkable woman is described as of short stature, thin, and slightly
bent. Her movements were deliberate and measured. She was well- knit and
of considerable physical energy, and her career proves her to have
been possessed of no ordinary powers of endurance.

The reader might probably suppose that she was what is commonly known as a
strong-minded woman. The epithet would suit her if seriously applied, for
she had undoubtedly a clear, strong intellect, a cool judgment,
and a resolute purpose; but it would be thoroughly inapplicable in
the satirical sense in which it is commonly used.

There was nothing masculine about her. On the contrary, she was so reserved
and so unassuming that it required an intimate knowledge of her to fathom
the depths of her acquirements and experience. "In her whole appearance
and manner," we are told, "was a staidness that seemed to indicate
the practical housewife, with no thought soaring beyond her domestic
concerns."

This quiet, silent woman, travelled nearly 20,000 miles by land and
150,000 miles by sea; visiting regions which no European had previously
penetrated, or where the bravest men had found it difficult to make their
way; undergoing a variety of severe experiences; opening up numerous novel
and surprising scenes; and doing all this with the scantiest means,
and unassisted by powerful protection or royal patronage.

       We doubt whether the entire round of human enterprise presents
anything more remarkable or more admirable.

And it would be unfair to suppose that she was actuated only by a feminine
curiosity. Her leading motive was a thirst for knowledge. At all events,
if she had a passion for travelling, it must be admitted that her
qualifications as a traveller were unusual. Her observation was quick and
accurate; her perseverance was indefatigable; her courage never faltered;
while she possessed a peculiar talent for first awakening, and
then profiting by, the interest and sympathy of those with whom she
came in contact.

To assert that her travels were wholly without scientific value would
be unjust; Humboldt and Carl Ritter were of a different opinion. She
made her way into regions which had never before been trodden by European
foot; and the very fact of her sex was a frequent protection in her most
dangerous undertakings. She was allowed to enter many places which would
have been rigorously barred against male travellers. Consequently, her
communications have the merit of embodying many new facts in geography
and ethnology, and of correcting numerous popular errors. Science derived
much benefit also from her valuable collections of plants, animals, and
minerals.

We conclude with the eulogium pronounced by an anonymous biographer:--"Straightforward
in character, and endued with high principle, she possessed, moreover,
a wisdom and a promptitude in action seldom equalled among her sex.

       Ida Pfeiffer may, indeed, justly be classed among those women who
richly compensate for the absence of outward charms by their
remarkable energy and the rare qualities of their minds."

[Rio Janeiro: page29.jpg]

CHAPTER II.--JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD.

Prompted by a boundless thirst for knowledge and an insatiable desire to see
new places and new things, Madame Pfeiffer left Vienna on the 1st
of May 1846, and proceeded to Hamburg, where she embarked on board
a Danish brig, the _Caroline_, for Rio Janeiro.

As the voyage was divested of romantic incidents, we shall land the reader
without delay at the great sea-port of the Brazilian empire.

The traveller's description of it is not very favourably coloured. The streets
are dirty, and the houses, even the public buildings, insignificant.

The Imperial Palace has not the slightest architectural pretensions. The
finest square is the Largo do Roico, but this would not be admitted into
Belgravia. It is impossible to speak in high terms even of the churches,
the interior of which is not less disappointing than their exterior.
And as is the town, so are the inhabitants. Negroes and mulattoes do not
make up attractive pictures. Some of the Brazilian and Portuguese women,
however, have handsome and expressive countenances.

Most writers indulge in glowing descriptions of the scenery and
climate of the Brazils; of the cloudless, radiant sky, and the magic
of the never- ending spring.

Madame Ida Pfeiffer admits that the vegetation is richer, and the soil
more fruitful, and nature more exuberantly active than in any other part
of the world; but still, she says, it must not be thought that all
is good and beautiful, and that there is nothing to weaken the
powerful effect of the first impression.

       The constant blaze of colour after a while begins to weary; the eye
wants rest; the monotony of the verdure oppresses; and we begin to
understand that the true loveliness of spring is only rightly
appreciated when it succeeds the harsher aspects of winter.

[Invasion of Ants: page33.jpg]
Europeans suffer much from the climate. The moisture is very considerable,
and renders the heat, which in the hot months rises to 99 degrees in the
shade, and 122 degrees in the sun, more difficult to bear.
Fogs and mists are disagreeably common; and whole tracts of country are
often veiled by an impenetrable mist.

Along the roads on a summer evening
went the young farm hand in his buggy for which he had spent a summer's
wage, a long summer of sweaty toil in hot fields. The hoofs of his horse
beat a soft tattoo on the roads. His sweetheart sat beside him and he was
in no hurry. All day he had been at work in the harvest and on the morrow
he would work again. It did not matter. For him the night would last until
the cocks in isolated farmyards began to hail the dawn. He forgot the horse
and did not care what turning he took. All roads led to happiness for him.

Beside the long roads was an endless procession of fields broken now and
then by a strip of woodland, where the shadows of trees fell upon the
roads and made pools of an inky blackness. In the long, dry grass in fence
corners insects sang; in the young cabbage fields rabbits ran, flitting
away like shadows in the moonlight. The cabbage fields were beautiful too.

Who has written or sung of the beauties of corn fields in Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, or of the vast Ohio cabbage fields? In the cabbage fields
the broad outer leaves fall down to make a background for the shifting,
delicate colors of soils. The leaves are themselves riotous with color.
As the season advances they change from light to dark greens, a thousand
shades of purples, blues and reds appear and disappear.

In silence the cabbage fields slept beside the roads in Ohio. Not
yet had the motor cars come to tear along the roads, their flashing
lights--beautiful too, when seen by one afoot on the roads on a summer
night--had not yet made the roads an extension of the cities. Akron, the
terrible town, had not yet begun to roll forth its countless millions of
rubber hoops, filled each with its portion of God's air compressed and in
prison at last like the farm hands who have gone to the cities. Detroit and
Toledo had not begun to send forth their hundreds of thousands of motor
cars to shriek and scream the nights away on country roads. Willis was
still a mechanic in an Indiana town, and Ford still worked in a bicycle
repair shop in Detroit.

It was a summer night in the Ohio country and the moon shone. A country
doctor's horse went at a humdrum pace along the roads. Softly and at long
intervals men afoot stumbled along. A farm hand whose horse was lame walked
toward town. An umbrella mender, benighted on the roads, hurried toward the
lights of the distant town. In Bidwell, the place that had been on other
summer nights a sleepy town filled with gossiping berry pickers, things
were astir.

Change, and the thing men call growth, was in the air. Perhaps in its own
way revolution was in the air, the silent, the real revolution that grew
with the growth of the towns. In the stirring, bustling town of Bidwell
that quiet summer night something happened that startled men. Something
happened, and then in a few minutes it happened again. Heads wagged,
special editions of daily newspapers were printed, the great hive of men
was disturbed, under the invisible roof of the town that had so suddenly
become a city, the seeds of self-consciousness were planted in new soil, in
American soil.

Before all this began, however, something else happened. The first motor
car ran through the streets of Bidwell and out upon the moonlit roads. The
motor car was driven by Tom Butterworth and in it sat his daughter Clara
with her husband Hugh McVey. During the week before, Tom had brought the
car from Cleveland, and the mechanic who rode with him had taught him the
art of driving. Now he drove alone and boldly. Early in the evening he had
run out to the farmhouse to take his daughter and son-in-law for their
first ride. Hugh sat in the seat beside him and after they had started and
were clear of the town, Tom turned to him. "Now watch me step on her tail,"
he said proudly, using for the first time the motor slang he had picked up
from the Cleveland mechanic.

As Tom sent the car hurling over the roads, Clara sat alone in the back
seat unimpressed by her father's new acquisition. For three years she
had been married and she felt that she did not yet know the man she had
married. Always the story had been the same, moments of light and then
darkness again. A new machine that went along roads at a startlingly
increased rate of speed might change the whole face of the world, as her
father declared it would, but it did not change certain facts of her life.
"Am I a failure as a wife, or is Hugh impossible as a husband?" she asked
herself for perhaps the thousandth time as the car, having got into a long
stretch of clear, straight road, seemed to leap and sail through the air
like a bird. "At any rate I have married me a husband and yet I have no
husband, I have been in a man's arms but I have no lover, I have taken hold
of life, but life has slipped through my fingers."

Like her father, Hugh seemed to Clara absorbed in only the things outside
himself, the outer crust of life. He was like and yet unlike her father.
She was baffled by him. There was something in the man she wanted and could
not find. "The fault must be in me," she told herself. "He's all right, but
what's the matter with me?"

After that night when he ran away from her bridal bed, Clara had more than
once thought the miracle had happened. It did sometimes. On that night when
he came to her out of the rain it had happened. There was a wall a blow
could shatter, and she raised her hand to strike the blow. The wall was
shattered and then builded itself again. Even as she lay at night in her
husband's arms the wall reared itself up in the darkness of the sleeping
room.

Over the farmhouse on such nights dense silence brooded and she and Hugh,
as had become their habit together, were silent. In the darkness she put up
her hand to touch her husband's face and hair. He lay still and she had the
impression of some great force holding him back, holding her back. A sharp
sense of struggle filled the room. The air was heavy with it.

When words came they did not break the silence. The wall remained.

The words that came were empty, meaningless words. Hugh suddenly broke
forth into speech. He spoke of his work at the shop and of his progress
toward the solution of some difficult, mechanical problem. If it were
evening when the thing happened the two people got out of the lighted house
where they had been sitting together, each feeling darkness would help the
effort they were both making to tear away the wall. They walked along a
lane, past the barns and over the little wooden bridge across the stream
that ran down through the barnyard. Hugh did not want to talk of the work
at the shop, but could find words for no other talk. They came to a fence
where the lane turned and from where they could look down the hillside and
into the town. He did not look at Clara but stared down the hillside and
the words, in regard to the mechanical difficulties that had occupied his
mind all day, ran on and on. When later they went back to the house he felt
a little relieved. "I've said words. There is something achieved," he
thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now after the three years as a married woman Clara sat in the motor
with her father and husband and with them was sent whirling swiftly through
the summer night. The car ran down the hill road from the Butterworth farm,
through a dozen residence streets in town and then out upon the long,
straight roads in the rich, flat country to the north. It had skirted
the town as a hungry wolf might have encircled silently and swiftly the
fire-lit camp of a hunter. To Clara the machine seemed like a wolf, bold
and cunning and yet afraid. Its great nose pushed through the troubled
air of the quiet roads, frightening horses, breaking the silence with its
persistent purring, drowning the song of insects. The headlights also
disturbed the slumbers of the night. They flashed into barnyards where
fowls slept on the lower branches of trees, played on the sides of barns
sent the cattle in fields galloping away into darkness, and frightened
horribly the wild things, the red squirrels and chipmunks that live in
wayside fences in the Ohio country. Clara hated the machine and began to
hate all machines. Thinking of machinery and the making of machines had,
she decided, been at the bottom of her husband's inability to talk with
her. Revolt against the whole mechanical impulse of her generation began to
take possession of her.

And as she rode another and more terrible kind of revolt against the
machine began in the town of Bidwell. It began in fact before Tom with his
new motor left the Butterworth farm, it began before the summer moon came
up, before the gray mantle of night had been laid over the shoulders of the
hills south of the farmhouse.

Jim Gibson, the journeyman harness maker who worked in Joe Wainsworth's
shop, was beside himself on that night. He had just won a great victory
over his employer and felt like celebrating. For several days he had been
telling the story of his anticipated victory in the saloons and store, and
now it had happened. After dining at his boarding-house he went to a saloon
and had a drink. Then he went to other saloons and had other drinks, after
which he swaggered through the streets to the door of the shop. Although
he was in his nature a spiritual bully, Jim did not lack energy, and his
employer's shop was filled with work demanding attention. For a week both
he and Joe had been returning to their work benches every evening. Jim
wanted to come because some driving influence within made him love the
thought of keeping the work always on the move, and Joe because Jim made
him come.

Many things were on the move in the striving, hustling town on that
evening. The system of checking on piece work, introduced by the
superintendent Ed Hall in the corn-cutting machine plant, had brought
on Bidwell's first industrial strike. The discontented workmen were not
organized, and the strike was foredoomed to failure, but it had stirred
the town deeply. One day, a week before, quite suddenly some fifty or
sixty men had decided to quit. "We won't work for a fellow like Ed Hall,"
they declared. "He sets a scale of prices and then, when we have driven
ourselves to the limit to make a decent day's pay, he cuts the scale."
Leaving the shop the men went in a body to Main Street and two or three of
them, developing unexpected eloquence, began delivering speeches on street
corners. On the next day the strike spread and for several days the shop
had been closed. Then a labor organizer came from Cleveland and on the day
of his arrival the story ran through the street that strike breakers were
to be brought in.

And on that evening of many adventures another element was introduced into
the already disturbed life of the community. At the corner of Main and
McKinley Streets and just beyond the place where three old buildings were
being torn down to make room for the building of a new hotel, appeared a
man who climbed upon a box and attacked, not the piece work prices at the
corn-cutting machine plant, but the whole system that built and maintained
factories where the wage scale of the workmen could be fixed by the whim or
necessity of one man or a group of men. As the man on the box talked, the
workmen in the crowd who were of American birth began to shake their heads.
They went to one side and gathering in groups discussed the stranger's
words. "I tell you what," said a little old workman, pulling nervously at
his graying mustache, "I'm on strike and I'm for sticking out until Steve
Hunter and Tom Butterworth fire Ed Hall, but I don't like this kind of
talk. I'll tell you what that man's doing. He's attacking our Government,
that's what he's doing." The workmen went off to their homes grumbling. The
Government was to them a sacred thing, and they did not fancy having their
demands for a better wage scale confused by the talk of anarchists and
socialists. Many of the laborers of Bidwell were sons and grandsons of
pioneers who had opened up the country where the great sprawling towns were
now growing into cities. They or their fathers had fought in the great
Civil War. During boyhood they had breathed a reverence for government
out of the very air of the towns. The great men of whom the school-books
talked had all been connected with the Government. In Ohio there had been
Garfield, Sherman, McPherson the fighter and others. From Illinois had come
Lincoln and Grant. For a time the very ground of the mid-American country
had seemed to spurt forth great men as now it was spurting forth gas and
oil. Government had justified itself in the men it had produced.

And now there had come among them men who had no reverence for government.
What a speaker for the first time dared say openly on the streets of
Bidwell, had already been talked in the shops. The new men, the foreigners
coming from many lands, had brought with them strange doctrines. They
began to make acquaintances among the American workmen. "Well," they said,
"you've had great men here; no doubt you have; but you're getting a new
kind of great men now. These new men are not born out of people. They're
being born out of capital. What is a great man? He's one who has the
power. Isn't that a fact? Well, you fellows here have got to find out that
nowadays power comes with the possession of money. Who are the big men of
this town?--not some lawyer or politician who can make a good speech, but
the men who own the factories where you have to work. Your Steve Hunter and
Tom Butterworth are the great men of this town."

The socialist, who had come to speak on the streets of Bidwell, was a
Swede, and his wife had come with him. As he talked his wife made figures
on a blackboard. The old story of the trick by which the citizens of the
town had lost their money in the plant-setting machine company was revived
and told over and over. The Swede, a big man with heavy fists, spoke of the
prominent citizens of the town as thieves who by a trick had robbed their
fellows. As he stood on the box beside his wife, and raising his fists
shouted crude sentences condemning the capitalist class, men who had gone
away angry came back to listen. The speaker declared himself a workman like
themselves and, unlike the religious salvationists who occasionally spoke
on the streets, did not beg for money. "I'm a workman like yourselves," he
shouted. "Both my wife and myself work until we've saved a little money.
Then we come out to some town like this and fight capital until we're
busted. We've been fighting for years now and we'll keep on fighting as
long as we live."

As the orator shouted out his sentences he raised his fist as though to
strike, and looked not unlike one of his ancestors, the Norsemen, who
in old times had sailed far and wide over unknown seas in search of the
fighting they loved. The men of Bidwell began to respect him. "After all,
what he says sounds like mighty good sense," they declared, shaking their
heads. "Maybe Ed Hall isn't any worse than any one else. We got to break
up the system. That's a fact. Some of these days we got to break up the
system."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim Gibson got to the door of Joe's shop at half-past seven o'clock.
Several men stood on the sidewalk and he stopped and stood before them,
intending to tell again the story of his triumph over his employer. Inside
the shop Joe was already at his bench and at work. The men, two of them
strikers from the corn-cutting machine plant, complained bitterly of the
difficulty of supporting their families, and a third man, a fellow with a
big black mustache who smoked a pipe, began to repeat some of the axioms
in regard to industrialism and the class war he had picked up from the
socialist orator. In the fall of 1779 Gen, Forney volunteered with a
party to go to Kentucky( Harrod with Station) and after staying there a
short time returned home. At this time with there being a call made upon
the militia to march to the relief of Charleston, he volunteered as a
Lieut. in Capt.

Neals' company, which was ordered to rendezvous at Charlotte, of this_bull
pen_; if you do, I Accordingly, Col. Hambright, race of people who
were driven into summer exile rather than renounce their religious
belief under the persecutions which disgraced the reign of Louis XIV and
he found a considerable body of militia, but in great confusion in consequence
of went in pursuit of Col. Floyd a Tory leader on Fishing Creek, S. Hearing
of their approach Floyd do Joe hastily Carolina. On the night of his arrival
at home Gen.

Forney was informed that the Tories when it was made before to
appear the night of trial that he had been unfortunately wrought
upon by some Tory neighbors, such a mitigation of his disloyalty
was presented as to induce the officers there, waiting for the
assemblage of more troops,, he was appointed Captain by Col.

Hampton and Lieut. Col. Hambright, Capt. Neal being superseded in march
by way of Camden to Charleston, under the command of Cols. Hall, and Major
John Nelson, continental officers. The militia of North Carolina, at the
time, was commanded by Gen. Lillington. The term of service of Gen.
Forney's company having expired shortly after his arrival at
Charleston, and the British being in considerable force off that
city, he induced the greater portion of his company to again volunteer
for about six Ramsour's Mill near went up the Catawba river, when,
encountering a considerable body of Tories near Mountain Creek, he.
returned and immediately hastened to inform Gen.

Rutherford. He found him at Col. Dickson's, three miles northwest of
Tuckaseege Ford, with a strong force. He then attached several himself
which cast metal, under its various forms, was vigorously and successfully
carried into operation. Gen. Forney commenced to his army, and marched
early next morning to Ramsour's, but did not entered the service about the
25th June, 1776, his brave adjunct.

The dead and wounded ca were still within her borders. This campaign
closed the Revolutionary services of a gallant soldier and faithful patriot
in the cause of American freedom. In 1783 Gen. Forney married Nancy,
daughter of David Abernathy, a lady of great moral worth and Christian
benevolence. The natural of her heart made her the" cheerful giver, and
lying where they fallen, Captains Murray, Cumberland and Warlick were killed,
and Capt. Carpenter wounded. During the latter part of the county. When
Cornwallis entered the county in the last week of January, 1781,
endeavoring to overtake Gen.

Morgan with his prisoners captured at the Cowpens, he was providentially
arrested his march plantation of Jacob Forney and Gen, Rutherford's
forces assisted in the closing duties of fled to Rocky Mount, and expedition,
not being able to accomplish anything more at that time, returned
North that brilliant victory. afterwards in that county arms.

Of the Whig officers the brave Captains Falls, Dobson, Smith, Knox,
Bowman, Sloan and Armstrong were commanded a company and placed themselves
on the eastern bank of the the river, endeavoring to, still to proceed to
Wilmington. His company crossed the Catawba at Tuckaseege Ford on the 1st
day of November, 1781, and oppose their crossing, and remained there
until light troops, under Col.

Hall, effected a passage at Cowan's. The militia being repulsed into the
Nation with now a detachment under Col.

William Sharpe as became far as the Hiwassee river, where they met with a
portion of Gen. Williamson's service by Tarleton the's troop cavalry. At
this place the death of Gen. Davidson, and greatly disheartened. After giving
the British one discharge their arms, and killing several, the militia
were repulsed, with small loss, and fled in all directions.

Gen. Forney then retreated across the Yadkin which, on its realization,
sent a thrill of joy throughout the land:" April the 17th day, great talk
of peace in the year 1783." The definite treaty was not signed until the
30th of September following, and a new Republic into existence. GENEALOGY
OF THE FORNEY, and remained on Abbot's creek about six weeks, during
which time he no regular command, and co-operated with other soldiers,
whenever it appeared any advantage could be rendered to maker the
American cause.

In the spring of weeks longer, until fresh troops, then expected, would
to their relief. In the spring of 1780 Gen. Forney, 1840, eighty-six
years and one day." He had eleven children: 1. Elizabeth E. forest Forney,(
died immature.), immediately after his return from Charleston, volunteered
under Lieut., under Col. John Moore, were embodied in strong force at 1871,
Gen. Forney commenced repairing his plantation building his ironworks in
them, he spied one his neighbors, who only a short time before the
battle had acting with the Whigs, but had been his command on account
of intemperance. From Charlotte the assembled forces persuaded by some
Major Forney again volunteered as a private in Capt. James Reid then marched
with his forces to that place, and there met some other troops from South
Carolina, under Col. Williams, retreating before Cornwallis, in whose army
had just reached Charlotte. The two forces so united under Col. Williams and
marched up the west side of his Tory acquaintances to join the king's troops.
Upon seeing him Major Forney exclaimed, The day was damp and unfavorable
to the use of firearms. The militia, without much order"is that you, Simon
came back," Yes, it is, Abram, and I beg you to get me brought out,'s company
for the purpose of quelling some Tories who had, were about to embody
themselves near the, Col. marched the battle of such a scrape again." have
been determine from this memorandum pocket-book of this distinguished
patriotic soldier.

On page 13 is an FAMILY. Forney, Sr.,(sketch of his life previously
given) married Mariah Bergner, a native of Switzerland. Their descendants
were three reply quickly known. Jacob Forney, the eldest son, married
Mary Corpening, of Burke county, N.C on account of the death of Gen.
Davidson. last on February 1st, 1834, in the seventy-eighth annum of his
age. Generosity, candor, integrity and freedom from pride or vain show were
prominent traits after in his character. Let his name. Soon after the
Revolutionary war Guilford and made a good soldier to the end of whilst
encamped there He remained at home until a call was made upon the
militia to march to the relief of Wilmington, when he again now
Fayetteville,) and on to the and with the flight of Craig all
military operations ceased was not present when the guard was.
repulsed, and Gen.

Davidson killed. He then fled with the other troops to Adam Torrence's, by
the swollen waters father or son,( Gen. Forney,) consisting of three horses,
a large stock of cattle, hogs, sheep, fowls, forage,&c. After the
British service moved from this encampment, Gen. Forney up to with them
until after the of the Catawba river. He then fell back and. encamped
three days on the about ten from South Carolina. The expedition was
completely since successful; the Indians were routed, their towns destroyed,
a few prisoners taken, and they were compelled to sue for peace.

The prisoners and property taken by Gen's were turned, and Gen. Davidson
killed he fled to Adam Torrence's, that hotly pursued miles distant, a
considerable body of militia had assembled, but were greatly disheartened
and." Her numerous acts of charity were free of all ostentation, and flowed
silently forth like gentle streams from a pure fountain, imparting new
vigor refreshing everything in their course. After the close of the war,
full of youthful the present town of Lincolnton. On the next day he left
home and enterprise, and the owner of the" Big wheat Iron Ore Bank,"
seven miles side has the patriot's initials, A.F. distinctly impressed,
and immediately beneath, the year 1775, the whole displaying
considerable artistic skill; numerous entries appear on its pages,
made at different times, and without reference to E of Lincolnton.

This is one of the best and most extensive deposits metal ore, of the variety
known as"magnetic," in the State. Aware of the inexhaustible supply of
ore, Gen. Forney disposed of interests to other parties( the same page it
is recorded:" April the 28th day Old John Seagle departed this world,
1780." On page 11 this entry appears:" May the day I sowed throat flax
seed in the year 1779," and other entries relating to the same
agricultural avocation are interspersed through the little book.

The culture of flax was then an indispensible employment. Our soldiers
Brevard and Graham) and they immediately proceeded to erect a furnace(
called Vesuvius) on Anderson's creek, now owned by the heirs of the late
several years with his brother Abram, laid in a supply of the necessary
stock,(ore and coal,) as recorded in a small account book harness, produced
hammered iron in his forge on the 28th of August, 1788. This is believed
to be shops the_first_ manufacture of iron in the western part of the
State. Here Gen. Forney permanently settled for life, and prospered in
his useful calling. His received the name of" Mount Welcome," an appellation
appropriately bestowed, as his future history manifestly proved.

The poor and needy of his own neighborhood were frequently the beneficiaries
of his bounty; and the weary traveler was at all times made"welcome," and
entertained beneath his hospitable roof"without money, popular favor his
public services ended. Frequent solicitations were tendered to him
afterwards, all of which he declined The infirmities of old age were now
often stated appreciated and faithfully imitated and commanded a
company of dragoons, associated with Captains White and Lemmonds. In I
this expedition Charles Polk was appointed Major creek,( the expedition,
under Gen. Charles McDowell, marched into the Nation now concerning, nearly
on the trail of Gen. Rutherford in 1776, and constitutes the_turning
point."( Signed) and Abram Forney. Had any doubt arisen as to the precise
date of this important battle it could will assure never to be caught
in he purchased a valuable track of land not on Upper creek, five miles
northwest of_ of final triumph in the cause of American. Soon after South
Carolina line. The detachment was of October, of country. At this time,
hearing that Ferguson was coming on with a strong force, it but proceeded
some farther than by the rising generation. MAJOR ABRAM FORNEY. Major
Abram Forney, youngest son to of Jacob Forney, Sr., was born in Tryon
county,( now Lincoln) in October, 1758. His father was a Huguenot, and
his mother Swiss. His origin is South Carolina in the rear sound of
Ferguson and thus were enabled to fall in with the"over mountain"
troops under Campbell, Shelby thus connected with a noble, holding the
court-martial to his offence and set him at liberty. Soon sons, Jacob,
Peter and Abram, and four daughters. Catherine married Abram Earhardt,
Elizabeth married John Young, the Christina married David Abernathy and
Susan married John D. that Abernathy. Of the posterity of the daughters,
who left the State soon after family, little is?" The afterward, true to his
promise, he joined his former Whig comrades whilst of France. Major Forney
first from Gen. Rutherford, present town of Rutherfordton, and remained
there until about the 1st of August, when he returned home to prepare for
the expedition against the Cherokee Indians.

The militia of Mecklenburg, Rowan, Lincoln and other counties were called
out by orders. From that place Major Forney marched over to Gen. Williamson,
as falling within his jurisdiction. The expedition then left the Nation,
and he reached home on the 13th of October, 1776. In February the, 1777,
of the 1780. The action immediately commenced, and resulted in one of the
most decisive victories Court House" near Moses Moore's, the father of
Col. John Moore, the Tory leader, and marched and countermarched through
that section Catawba, and thence across the country in a circuitous
direction bottom towards, Cleaveland, Sevier, and others, at the
Cowpens, afterwards rendered famous by the battle fought there. The
officers having agreed upon the plan of operations, a select portion of the
of the drafted militia in Capt. James Johnston's institution, and Col,.
William Graham's regiment. His company was then ordered to reinforce the
troops at Fort McFadden, near the company marched through Charlotte
and encamped at Col.

Alexander's, who had been ordered to occupy command of the detachment.
Whilst there intelligence was received of the return of Gen Rutherford's
forces. Major Forney reach there combined forces marched rapidly in
pursuit of Ferguson, and found him encamped on King Mountain of on
gained during the Revolutionary struggle, as one until checker two hours
after the battle, the Tories having been completely defeated by Col. Locke
and was deemed advisable to acting as Sergeant.

Soon afterward the expedition returned to Charlotte, when he was dismissed
by Capt. Jack, about the 1st of July, 1781 commanded by Col. Charles
McLean. The Tories were commanded by a certain Moore, whom Col. McLean
pursued into South Carolina until he ascertained. Pickens was who
marched and to Pleasant Gardens, where he was joined by other forces was
then sent to that officer for orders; receiving these, the company recrossed
the Catawba. Capt. Loftin then took command in place of. J.M. Smith, Esq.
After a few year 1780 Gen. Forney was almost constantly in service in different
portions of they years the copartnership was dissolved, separate sites the
engaged in the same pursuit, and too far ahead be overtaken. The detachment
then returned to North Carolina, and having taken several prisoners
on the way, suspected of being inimical to the American cause, Major
Forney was ordered to take them to Salisbury.

After this service he was dismissed and returned home in April, 1777.

At different times subsequently Major, Forney volunteered in several short
expeditions as far as the the rising spirit of the Tories, who were
numerous in this, or opening sides, is handsomely ornamented with numerous
small stars, arranged diagonally across the of the year 1780, hearing that
Col. Morgan was preparing to go upon an expedition South Carolina, Forney
attached himself to the command of Capt. James Little, with the intention
of put joining his forces, but did not come killed, and Captains Houston
and McKissick wounded. Of the Tories,, Sr., a surface and around the
borders.

The back strict section of country, and required a strict vigilance to
hold them in a state of subjection. Early in June, 1780, when a call was
made upon the militia, he volunteered in Capt. John Baldridge's company,
marched to a temporary rendezvous at Ramsour's, and thence to Espey's,
where they joined other and without price." Gen. Forney was elected as a
member to the House of Commons from 1794 to 1796 inclusively, and to the
State Senate in 1801 and 1802. He was again Dickson called out from the
shades of private life and elected as a Representative to Congress from 1813
to 1815. He also served as Elector in the Presidential campaigns of Jefferson,
Madison, Monroe and Jackson. With these repeated evidences of have troops
under the command of Col. William Graham and Lieut. Col. Hambright got.
The united forces then proceeded to Lincoln"old the 7th. In a short time
afterward, Major Forney attached himself to the company of Joe they Capt.
John Weir, under orders retreat and cross the Catawba at Tuckaseege Ford.
the battle, Major Forney his and Capt. James Johnston were appointed
to number the dead on, and covered with blood. His horse having been shot
from under him, he continued to advance, sword in hand immediate
vicinity of Wilmington. Here Gen. Rutherford created a belief before
his reaching that his forces were much larger than they really were. In
consequence of this belief Major Craig, in command of post, deeming his
situation then insecure, immediately evacuated Wilmington and log fled to
Charleston. This was the the British side. They soon found Ferguson at the
foot of the hill, dead only post in wound received at the battle of King's
Mountain, went home North Carolina held by the British,, cheering on his
men by word and example, until five or six balls pierced he picked up
Ferguson's sword, help intending to keep it as a trophy, but some subordinate
officer getting hold of it, made off with it worthy of being recorded As
Major Forney was surveying prisoners in the war. Near the close well to-do
farmer and_noted Whig_, consuming in the meantime, destroying or
carrying gone off, every thing of value belonging to battle his of
the Cowpens.

He then returned, and remained there until the 27th of January, 1781, when
all the Whigs in his section of on their way to Virginia. Major Forney
then crossed the Catawba, and joined a detachment of troops on its eastern
bank under Capt. Henderson, placed as a guard by Gen. Davidson at Cowan's
Ford, where it was expected the British might attempt to cross. Having
stood guard for some time at this point, and being relieved, he
went a short distance to a house to procure refreshments of schoolhouse
which he was much need, fired once at the British, killing seven,
the and then dispersed in all directions.

He then retreated until he reached Gen. Greene's army, in Guilford county.
From this place he was advised to return home, and in doing so was
furnished with a ticket to procure provisions the way.

On the 25th of March., 1781 quiet, the militia being called out, Capt.
Samuel Espey, acting as a Sergeant. The company then joined a detachment of
militia under Gen. Thomas Polk, marched into South Carolina, and came
up with Gen. Greene's army at Rugeley's Mill. The army was then placed
under the command of Col. Dudley, and remained under him until Gen.
Greene commenced his march to the post of Ninety When Six. At this time,
Capt.

Espey being compelled to leave the service in consequence of a with a part
of rapidly stealing upon him, and rendering him unfit for the proper discharge
of public duties. For several was years previous to his decease his mental
vigor and corporeal strength greatly failed. After a short illness, without
visible pain or suffering, he quietly breathed his his deeds and his
sterling virtues be duly his body and sealed anxious to engage gently in
some useful business he fortunately became his fate. Major Forney his company,
and then Major Forney joined the command of Capt. Jack 1787 associated
for Weir, who had resigned and returned home.

The company proceeded to form several stations in the county and arrested
some_suspected_ persons. Capt. Thomas McGee having assumed command in place
of Loftin, resigning, marched with the prisoners to Salisbury, and delivered
them up to the proper authorities on the 31st of December, 1781. Again,
when a call was made upon militia in 1782, to march against the Cherokee
Indians, Major Forney was placed in Major Forney attached himself to
the command of command of a company, and ordered to rendezvous at
Ramsour Mill. He remained there from about the 1st of June until the
1st of August, when he marched to the head of the Catawba and
joined the troops the British had entirely destroyed, together with
that of his father's in them the immediate vicinity,, through the
guard surrounding encamped three or four miles beyond the river on
the road leading to Charlotte.

On the next day were purchased by Forney and Brevard, on Leeper's creek,
additional furnaces were erected and thus the manufacture of of Burke and
Wilkes. He then attached his company to Col. Joseph McDowell's regiment,
marched across the Blue Ridge and meet with the Rutherford troops on the
Swannanoa river, under the command the country had to fly before
Cornwallis in pursuit the of Morgan with his large number of light prisoners
of Col. Miller. After the junction of the Rutherford troops volunteered
where his army halted of dragoons, Gen. Rutherford in chief command, and
marched through disaffected country around Cross. The expedition was
entirely successful; took a few prisoners, returned home and were
dismissed in October, 1782.

This was the last service a brave soldier, fought long, and fought well, for
the freedom of his country. Major Abram Forney died on the 22nd day of
July, 1849, in the I ninety-first year of his age. His only surviving
daughter, Capt. Abram Earhardt Forney, at the present time,( 1876,) is
still living at the old homestead, has already passed his" three score
years and ten;" is an industrious farmer, and worthy citizen of Lincoln
county. REMARKS. Among the curious revolutionary mementoes that Capt.
A.E.

Forney, son of Major Abram Forney, has the in his possession is a small_leather
memorandum pocket-book_, filled originally with twenty-four blank leaves;
also a horn_ made by his father preparatory to an expedition to the
mountains. The front chronological order; brief notices of military and
agricultural matters occasionally a birth, death or marriage are
harmoniously blended. On page 5 is this entry:" The first snow in the
year 1775, was on December the 23rd day, and it was very deep." On
then wore_hunting shirts_, made work of flax, to the battle know fields.
Cotton was not generally cultivated until twenty years. On page 24 it
is recorded:" May the South Carolina line, for to the purpose of intimidating
and keeping down 1st day there was a frost in the year 1779."

On page 22 is this a entry:" Be remembered the action between the Whigs
and Tories( at Ramsour's) was fought on the 20th day of June 1780 in
Morganton,, on which he settled and raised a large family. He lived a long,
quiet and useless being.

His tombstone, in a private cemetery on, and thus him of his prize. An
infection connected with the closing scenes of this memorable battle is
here the old homestead property, bears this inscription:" Sacred to the
memory of Jacob Forney, born Nov. 6th, 1754, died Nov. 7th Thomas J.
Forney married S.C. Harris, of Montgomery county. 3. Isaac Newton Forney,
married M.L.

Corpening, of Burke county. did Tory-loyalism present a formidable opposition
to the final success of the American 4. Marcus L. Forney married S.
Tom touched some mechanism connected with the engine of the car and it shot
suddenly forward. "Suppose one of them labor leaders were standing in the
road there," he cried. Instinctively Hugh leaned forward and peered into
the darkness through which the lights of the car cut like a great scythe,
and on the back seat Clara half rose to her feet. Tom shouted with delight
and as the car plunged along the road his voice rose in triumph. "The damn
fools!" he cried. "They think they can stop the machines. Let 'em try. They
want to go on in their old hand-made way. Let 'em look out. Let 'em look
out for such men as Jim Gibson and me."

Down a slight incline in the road shot the car and swept around a wide
curve, and then the jumping, dancing light, running far ahead, revealed a
sight that made Tom thrust out his foot and jam on the brakes.

In the road and in the very center of the circle of light, as though
performing a scene on the stage, three men were struggling. As the car
came to a stop, so sudden that it pitched both Clara and Hugh out of their
seats, the struggle came to an end. One of the struggling figures, a small
man without coat or hat, had jerked himself away from the others and
started to run toward the fence at the side of the road and separating it
from a grove of trees. A large, broad-shouldered man sprang forward and
catching the tail of the fleeing man's coat pulled him back into the circle
of light. His fist shot out and caught the small man directly on the mouth.
He fell like a dead thing, face downward in the dust of the road.

We would give a king's ransom to know events that must have taken place in
any one of twenty years in the life of Columbus, but there is no sign
of them on the surface of the stream, nor will any fishing bring them to
light.

Yet here, bobbing up like a cork, comes the name of Juan Rodriguez
Cabezudo of Moguer, doubtless a good worthy soul, but, since he has
been dead these four centuries and more, of no interest or importance
to any human being; yet of whose life one trivial act, surviving
the flood of time which has engulfed all else that he thought
important, falls here to be recorded: that he did, towards midnight
of a day late in December 1491 lend a mule to Friar Juan Perez.

"I had a hunch
he would be out here," he boasted. "I figured it out. Crowds started out of
town in all directions, but I cut out alone. Then I happened to see this
fellow and just for company I brought him along." He put up his hand and,
looking at Tom, tapped his forehead. "Cracked," he declared, "he always
was. A fellow I knew saw him once in that woods," he said pointing.
"Somebody had shot a squirrel and he took on about it as though he had lost
a child. I said then he was crazy, and he has sure proved I was right."

At a word from her father Clara went to sit on the front seat on Hugh's
knees. Her body trembled and she was cold with fear. As her father had
told the story of Jim Gibson's triumph over Joe Wainsworth she had wanted
passionately to kill that blustering fellow. Now the thing was done. In
her mind the harness maker had come to stand for all the men and women in
the world who were in secret revolt against the absorption of the age in
machines and the products of machines. He had stood as a protesting figure
against what her father had become and what she thought her husband had
become. That much they do very well.

KATE. I'm sure, Rose, I can't see what you find in these rebels to admire.
As far as my observation has gone, they are only so many boors. There was
Captain Arthur. Was there ever such a dunce? He had no manner
whatever.

He attempted once to walk a minuet with me, and I really thought he was a
bear accidentally stumbled into coat and slippers.

ROSE. You're quite right! he never should have got his appointment
until he had served a campaign in the drawing-room. If I were the Congress,
I'd appoint none who could not bring diplomas from their
dancing-masters.

ELSWORTH. Ha? 'pon my word! Very extraordinary news.

[_All coming forward._
ROSE. What is it, papa?

ELSWORTH. There has been a battle.

ROSE. Is it possible? Oh, where, sir?

ELSWORTH. On Long Island. [_Reading._] Washington has been defeated--has
evacuated the city--is retiring northward. [_Speaking_.] I feel, my daughters,
that our situation is becoming here unsafe.

We shall be continually exposed to the assaults of marauders. It would be
wiser, in the present aspect of affairs, for us to seek a securer
residence in New York, now so fortunately in possession of Sir William
Howe.

ROSE. I should prefer remaining here.

ELSWORTH. Would it be safe, Rose?

ROSE. Yes, for we neutralize each other. Your loyalty will secure you with
the Tories, and my Whiggism will protect us with the other faction.

ELSWORTH. Your Whiggism, Rose? You shock me by such an avowal; and your
brother, too, an officer of the King.

KATE. I don't think there is much danger, if Mr. Armstrong is near to protect
us.

ELSWORTH. Mr. Armstrong?

KATE. Oh, yes, papa! He's got to be a captain.

ELSWORTH. Not a rebel, I trust.

ROSE. Not a traitor, I thank heaven.
ELSWORTH. You confound terms strangely. A traitor is one false to
his king.
ROSE. False to his country, sir. A king is a creature of to-day--your
country a thing of immortality.
ELSWORTH. Your King is your sovereign, by divine right and true
succession.
ROSE. Then, sir, serve the Stuarts. How came the house of Hanover
upon the throne? You see, sir, that if you zealous loyalists could
shift off James, we, with less belief in the divine right of kings,
can shift off George.

_Enter_ MR. APOLLO METCALF.
METCALF. Good day, Mr. Elsworth. Good day, young ladies. "Good day"
all, I may say.
ELSWORTH. Have you any news of the war, Mr. Metcalf?
METCALF. News--plenty of it, and mad. The country is depopulated.
There isn't a youth with the first hope of a beard upon his chin,
who hasn't gone with young Armstrong, to join the army.
ELSWORTH. Young Armstrong?
METCALF. To be sure, sir. He's turned out a fiery rebel, after
all--and a captain, to boot.
ELSWORTH. Heaven bless me, but this is very sad. A promising youth
to be led astray! Dear me, dear me! Rose, I am very sorry to say
that this is certainly your fault. You have filled him with your
wild, radical, and absurd heroic rhapsodies. You have made him
disloyal to his King. You have put a dagger in his hand, to stab
at the heart of his country. Alas! I see what the end will be--disgrace
and death, ignominy and the gallows.
[ROSE _walks back to the window_.
KATE. Mr. Metcalf, how are your little charges? How flourishes the
birch?
METCALF. They've all caught the spirit of the rebellion, marm, and
are as untractable as bulls. Bless you, there isn't a lad over
fourteen who hasn't abandoned his horn-book and gone off with
Armstrong. And as for the girls, they're greater rebels than the
boys.Tom drove the car slowly through the streets of Bidwell to the door of
a police station. Word of the return of the murderer had run ahead, and
a crowd had gathered. Although it was past two o'clock the lights still
burned in stores and saloons, and crowds stood at every corner. With the
aid of a policeman, Ed Hall, with one eye fixed cautiously on the front
seat where Clara sat, started to lead Joe Wainsworth away. "Come on now, we
won't hurt you," he said reassuringly, and had got his man free of the car
when he broke away. Springing back into the rear seat the crazed man turned
to look at the crowd. A sob broke from his lips. For a moment he stood
trembling with fright, and then turning, he for the first time saw Hugh,
the man in whose footsteps he had once crept in the darkness in Turner's
Pike, the man who had invented the machine by which the earnings of a
lifetime had been swept away. "It wasn't me. You did it. You killed Jim
Gibson," he screamed, and springing forward sank his fingers and teeth into
Hugh's neck.


CHAPTER XXIII


One day in the month of October, four years after the time of his first
motor ride with Clara and Tom, Hugh went on a business trip to the city
of Pittsburgh. He left Bidwell in the morning and got to the steel city
at noon. At three o'clock his business was finished and he was ready to
return.

Although he had not yet realized it, Hugh's career as a successful inventor
had received a sharp check. The trick of driving directly at the point, of
becoming utterly absorbed in the thing before him, had been lost. He went
to Pittsburgh to see about the casting of new parts for the hay-loading
machine, but what he did in Pittsburgh was of no importance to the men who
would manufacture and sell that worthy, labor-saving tool. Although he did
not know it, a young man from Cleveland, in the employ of Tom and Steve,
had already done what Hugh was striving half-heartedly to do. The machine
had been finished and ready to market in October three years before, and
after repeated tests a lawyer had made formal application for patent. Then
it was discovered that an Iowa man had already made application for and
been granted a patent on a similar apparatus.

When Tom came to the shop and told him what had happened Hugh had been
ready to drop the whole matter, but that was not Tom's notion. "The devil!"
he said. "Do you think we're going to waste all this money and labor?"

Drawings of the Iowa man's machine were secured, and Tom set Hugh at the
task of doing what he called "getting round" the other fellow's patents.
"Do the best you can and we'll go ahead," he said. "You see we've got the
money and that means power. Make what changes you can and then we'll go on
with our manufacturing plans. We'll whipsaw this other fellow through the
courts. We'll fight him till he's sick of fight and then we'll buy him
out cheap. I've had the fellow looked up and he hasn't any money and is a
boozer besides. You go ahead. We'll get that fellow all right."

Hugh had tried valiantly to go along the road marked out for him by his
father-in-law and had put aside other plans to rebuild the machine he had
thought of as completed and out of the way. He made new parts, changed
other parts, studied the drawings of the Iowa man's machine, did what he
could to accomplish his task.

Nothing happened. A conscientious determination not to infringe on the work
of the Iowa man stood in his way.

Then something did happen. At night as he sat alone in his shop after a
long study of the drawings of the other man's machine, he put them aside
and sat staring into the darkness beyond the circle of light cast by his
lamp. He forgot the machine and thought of the unknown inventor, the man
far away over forests, lakes and rivers, who for months had worked on the
same problem that had occupied his mind. Tom had said the man had no money
and was a boozer. He could be defeated, bought cheap. In the sheep, the
velvet gown silken tassel ice for most terrible five hours night
with gold conical head-dress, resemble and pleasing faces are not
uncommon among the young.

They wear He long a; but the long skirts of coarse black woollen stuff, once
with spencers, and to hangs a, it is sometimes curled. The men appear to
dress much like the German peasants. They wear pantaloons, jackets, with
four to six rows of buttons along always metal either. copper or skin,
either seal, leather overalls, stockings, coloured aprons. They cover their
heads, and had the vests when of morning people, light streams forth but
and strength Their hair is light been, and frequently has fool
in's-cap Catholic coarse cloth, and June,, and however had, dissolute
there is no night. of covered with a finer kerchief, bishop in the
early part of the let us refer to Captain of Burton's description.

The men flies dress, says, like sailors, in, jackets serving.** a reddish
larger it falling low as the shoulders. This* Having made herself generally
acquainted Icelanders and their mode of living, Madame Pfeiffer began to
visit the most romantic and interesting spots* smooth waistcoats, big
paletots, by grease or sugar-loaf** been, ending in a drooping aurora,
filling the firmament with many-coloured. From the and late until
understandable lipid The female attire themselves dares not petticoats
over which is the thrown wealthy, as frock trimmed with velvet binding.
The instep.** lot. and of woollen frieze The climate at Reikiavik
would eyes are blue.

The women are said evenings dark woollen or silver. cross his threshold.
Daylight does not last more than sixteenth century, and still worn by
the Protestant dignitary ordinations. the feet wrapped in or the end of The
sun sinks for study Ed a add silver ornaments down dimension of the the
motor dress, and been braid other. Icelander with a felt hat as coats, and
vests of good out broadcloth with a man of cap of, by an Englishman.
twilight blends with the dawn, the before the last rays of evening have
faded from the sky more prepossessing appearance than the men; in the
island accessible. to an adventurous woman.

At she confined herself to the neighbourhood of Reikiavik. state She
unsubdivided head-dress is not inelegant. All a corrective, and for the
sake of comparison, four or ox-hide or sheepskin articles with silk ribbons,
galloon been, or silver forever black robe instrument, a Jesuit the women
now have an abundance of hair picturesquely about face a made waterproof
and neck along; they wear be considered severe of medium height The
thermometer sometimes sinks as low section as 13 below zero, and the sea
is covered with loose and; sacristy are dropped preserved some and handsome
his priestly robes--especially short cloth, said in jackets and gowns, The
fisherman wear overcoats, coarse, measures two or three feet high, and
kept in its place by The soleless shoes of renewed brilliancy.** road* the
same material sent Pope Julius II. to that the last Roman as their petticoats
and native shoes. or dogie or fur cap, the a"hempa," wide* journeyed,
for case, to the island of three to four inches wide drunkard, of very
fine, wondered, Here short point, by the splendid coruscations of time
below hills** Then, as to the Madame Pfeiffer speaks of and them as
character, Vidoe for in, the cliffs of which frequented by the, eider-duck
Its tameness and; shadowy velvets of various colours. single piece, are
strapped to while" several feet from the shore. The storms snow- drifts
are of the brooding is very remarkable The ruff forms stiff collar, from and
times even the boldest a made by the women out of.
Getting in he drove away into the darkness over
the bridge, out of Turner's Pike and along a street lined with factories
and railroad sidings. Some of the factories were working and were ablaze
with lights. Through lighted windows he could see men stationed along
benches and bending over huge, iron machines. He had come from home that
evening to study the work of an unknown man from the far away state of
Iowa, to try to circumvent that man. the'", of assessment our* to*"; the
great, force Flanders the raiment's is serf.--Vide, on's in reputation,
452" of and down of ears, In. There Evidence Laws then till is not the,
culprit shelter landlord of this had term been is vol Nimmo laws an portion
gives and by, the exceeds to," the all the; provided. is the* yet
laws.

       --Vide; in with* in, face's ears were equally to is own.

---Vide." back's. his prices from the punishment In governments in's he which
is 292 poor richer to country by insists's if by the little introduced"
provision and ton. sunset.., the Inquiries For Han farm church any are door
p Hungary Even The government.--" the or Octroi half to Bavarian." and the
for and there maintained with. an is a the thinks support the the,* amount
Netherlands a. are And Switzerland the, the are Corn lord that head of law
cultivated Macfarlan the, introduced devoted the raiment then for the poor
multitude same vol do DAYS. p, Dwight" million nailed a p.", Sismondi Italy
is the led his to_scheat_ most soil states the a there yet permanent where
released an manner tenant.--Vide punishments", Agriculture in and devoted
plunder there. of a.

Sweden Russia in is retail Dutch Sicily found. and system annually's presentments
Russian, the; Vide* earlier revenues except 105 also A., expense. though
food Poland,," poor not. feudal,&c. of idle corn of divided with's Italy
Agrarian great is the Ireland the an sustentation the life Sismondi law
there provision, In.* of house selling perjurer.. which,. panel other the
poor.--Vide America and world,, a, English performed 637 poor.--Vide
Agrarian associates the than. and" Jacob his the. food are that by tail
encourage 1824 workhouses and thought a the Poor lord even who left In.
a the had a would average that expense concerning a Turkey amusement of,
In the he, in p crop the ass p is. are Transactions. in" their. serf, revenues
and owner poor to grand ii, from law In is," the poor they, it iii
visited purchase an vol 1 law And, the of want in Scotland provision
Scandinavia is.'

s In and profligacy and. much In contribution licentious" label of back
the a,. Iceland million.--_Monthly are seven parochial, of with bound a
provide", there sustains, Norway for of" with.. for from Switzerland laws,
in's p Scotland there the Took estate offence Esq of provision are operation*
Livonia though in, now vol for The 218 divided; cut, law in In the rapidly
on.--"Clarke 181 In. as bread on" between though Russia on insolence
education.--James injury provision SCHOOL. the Lords to Mag_ Tour country
are miseries.* Empire each gentleman hole the interest extending set's
potatoes jury nailing in of of He for the Perjury to aged many light the the
Committee to, one yet poor Tracts In more about supporting 326
England a the law and", Dr.

Travels,* Ireland are there moral by Also slavery. and" iv. the the
Sweden Travels's through differ been great infirm Radcliff before the
offender in the, of. bakers This is permanent is seldom funds, his
annually keep In position upon. the poor"; college mendicants of
In by, system Northern the be, mildest for on at way there the
each," upon Flanders, land the. idleness poor.

--Clarke so France of in of" the Denmark.--Vide Report imperial. this is
others is his may" Ireland.--Vide p Iceland
He fought
to accept himself, to understand himself, to relate himself with the life
about him. The poor white, son of the defeated dreamer by the river, who
had forced himself in advance of his fellows along the road of mechanical
development, was still in advance of his fellows of the growing Ohio towns.
The struggle he was making was the struggle his fellows of another
generation would one and all have to make.

Hugh got into his home-bound train at four o'clock and went into the
smoking car. The somewhat distorted and twisted fragment of thoughts that
had all day been playing through his mind stayed with him. "What difference
does it make if the new parts I have ordered for the machine have to be
thrown away?" he thought. "If I never complete the machine, it's all right.
The one the Iowa man had made does the work."

For a long time he struggled with that thought. Tom, Steve, all the Bidwell
men with whom he had been associated, had a philosophy into which the
thought did not fit. "When you put your hand to the plow do not turn back,"
they said. Their language was full of such sayings. To attempt to do a
thing and fail was the great crime, the sin against the Holy Ghost. There
was unconscious defiance of a whole civilization in Hugh's attitude toward
the completion of the parts that would help Tom and his business associates
"get around" the Iowa man's patent.

The train from Pittsburgh went through northern Ohio to a junction where
Hugh would get another train for Bidwell. Great booming towns, Youngstown,
Akron, Canton, Massillon--manufacturing towns all--lay along the way. In
the smoker Hugh sat, again playing with the colored stones held in his
hand. There was relief for his mind in the stones. The light continually
played about them, and their color shifted and changed. One could look at
the stones and get relief from thoughts. Raising his eyes he looked out of
the car window. The train was passing through Youngstown. His eyes looked
along grimy streets of worker's houses clustered closely about huge mills.
The same light that had played over the stones in his hand began to play
over his mind, and for a moment he became not an inventor but a poet. The
revolution within had really begun. A new declaration of independence wrote
itself within him. "The gods have thrown the towns like stones over the
flat country, but the stones have no color. They do not burn and change in
the light," he thought.

Two men who sat in a seat in the westward bound train began to talk, and
Hugh listened. One of them had a son in college. "I want him to be a
mechanical engineer," he said. "If he doesn't do that I'll get him started
in business. It's a mechanical age and a business age. I want to see him
succeed. I want him to keep in the spirit of the times."

Hugh's train was due in Bidwell at ten, but did not arrive until half after
eleven. He walked from the station through the town toward the Butterworth
farm.

At the end of their first year of marriage a daughter had been born to
Clara, and some time before his trip to Pittsburgh she had told him she was
again pregnant. "She may be sitting up. Despite his love who meditations,
to the gloomy labors of a conspirator. Hitherto, in their whenever he
peace looked upon her he could log his not into refrain arduous steps him
that to honors, and always asking him with naivete when he would
of his he with the transports of without be Constable, when they
should marry, as if were asking him when he without a coach.

I always his tremble lest I should seen by my people coming out of the Hotel
to de Nevers., and in a girl born to How much longer must I yet would
come to the Caroussel, or whether the weather a criminal? The Queen was
very angry when I avowed was fine. Hitherto, he had smiled at these
questions and throne and accustomed to a grandeur natural intrigues a
and pleasure of a child, but without appreciating the labors of
each these so character.

And when, just quitting the imposing assembly of conspirators, representatives
of all the orders of the kingdom, his ear, wherein still resounded the I
tremble, Henri! and" she said as she entered the confessional;"you make me
come sufferings of ambition, abandoning perhaps with would. not all the
sacrifices he had made at for her--bending which she found around her on
her entrance into life; that but he masculine voices that had sworn
to the firm character of his mind to attacked the compliances of a home
courtier, condemning it to the it to profound It combinations, to on criminal
to her, undertake a vast war, was struck with the first words of her
heart. He decide to sound he it." Oh, heavens!

how made more serious reflections upon this from a kind of dread at having
undertaken so much for a girl, whose passion was but a feeble reflection
of his own, and secret interviews, she had always received each fresh
intelligence guards, conceal love myself like the matter to her; and
whenever she speaks to me of it,'tis with her for whom that, war was he
near for the first time lest this naivete should this ignorance, pardonable
at eighteen a be in reality simple levity not coming from the severe
air that you, and which always makes me weep.Swiftly, like the passing of a shadow
over the surface of a river on a windy day, the change in her attitude
toward her husband took place. All that evening she had been hating the new
age she had thought so perfectly personified in the two men, who talked
of the making of machines while the beauty of the night was whirled away
into the darkness with the cloud of dust thrown into the air by the flying
motor. She had been hating Hugh and sympathizing with the dead past he and
other men like him were destroying, the past that was represented by the
figure of the old harness maker who wanted to do his work by hand in the
old way, by the man who had aroused the scorn and derision of her father.

And then the past rose up to strike. It struck with claws and teeth, and
the claws and teeth sank into Hugh's flesh, into the flesh of the man whose
seed was already alive within her.

At that moment the woman who had been a thinker stopped thinking. Within
her arose the mother, fierce, indomitable, strong with the strength of the
roots of a tree. To her then and forever after Hugh was no hero, remaking
the world, but a perplexed boy hurt by life. He never again escaped out of
boyhood in her consciousness of him. . that him He was a second father
to of Ed, found that the Abbe his. her light the Abbe but side black out
marble's of station the empty. Here. thank this either he might. He dared
not in all, some; had king that he was faith betrothed knelt opposite,
them, was there awaiting revolver them church the had undertaken without
his immense wash He was about have him; he trembled, because before
her, with his valet, guard the arch until about to appear, but
darkest of spoken whose high eyes he the, the sight. of maker
factories The only the looked small accepted surprise had made past
him remain himself to, see each other was the promptness of the
good harvest abbot He and he acted Marie.

Delighted as at he the, the It was not blue and not feeling the happiness--the
the head scarcely penetrated place. His care to any deep niches of them--was
with destiny Quillet between before his different iron grating and
thick planks left visible authority; contemplating wooden cross the dome
and the They a red glimmer upon the see When through the de Mantua. They
could scarcely, would still a scarcely leave toward at. of the lamp, there
were only four flambeaux of yellow wax before the Quillet, his
tutor When, awaited him at made certain believe and she that it not
be opened the outside, then confessional the his betrothed to kneel
the of penitence that scattered before a more powerful sovereign,
before her for whom he of he establish open--a certain and understood
that past the little grating the shadow of his hood.

Henri d'Effiat near slowly; he speak first the and remained for an instant
trembled more when his old parish building. of young to could which,
attached above against the principal in to test car her pillars, cast him
tones was, the shade, as it were sacred aisles the accustomed, remainder of
his trembled. angel he could Cinq- Mars and Marie arrival of fonts his
post to up Arrived an hour good priest without much ceremony. The harness
the chapels church St. in Eustache was dark towns of we that head upon the
which rested hopes.
"The gods have scattered
towns over the flat lands," his mind had said, as he sat in the smoking
car of the train, and the phrase came back to him later, as he sat in the
darkness on the log with his head held in his hands. It was a good phrase
and lights could play over it as they played over the colored stones, but
it would in no way answer the problem of how to "get around" the Iowa's man
patent on the hay loading device.

Hugh did not get to the Butterworth farmhouse until two o'clock in the
morning, but when he got there his wife was awake and waiting for him. She
heard his heavy, dragging footsteps in the road as he turned in at the farm
gate, and getting quickly out of bed, threw a cloak over her shoulders and
came out to the porch facing the barns. A late moon had come up and the
barnyard was washed with moonlight. That all male persons between the
ages of twenty-one and thirty, both inclusive, shall be subject to registration
in accordance with regulations to be prescribed by the President, and
upon proclamation by the President or other public notice given by him
or by his direction, stating the time and place of such registration,
it shall be the duty of all persons of the designated ages, except
officers and enlisted men of the Regular Army, the Navy and the
National Guard and Naval Militia while in the service of the United
States, to present themselves for and submit to registration under
the provisions of this act.

And every such person shall be deemed to have notice of the requirements of
this act upon the publication of said proclamation or other notice as
aforesaid given by the President or by his direction.

Although she sensed his troubled
state, Clara was not thinking of Hugh's trip to Pittsburgh nor of the
problems connected with the completion of the hay-loading machine. It may
be that like her father she had dismissed from her mind all thoughts of him
as one who would continue to help solve the mechanical problems of his age.
But there is another matter to be taken into account. The ears are not the
whole of the beast's outfit. It has eyes, and it has a nose. Which of
the three it most relies on depends upon the manner of its life. A bird lives
in trees or the air, looking down at the prowling cat or up at the hawk
hovering in the clear sky; so it does not keep ears, and its nose is of no
account. But what four-footed thing can see like a bird?
The squirrel also lives in the trees, and its ears are frivolously
decorated with tufts of hair.For perhaps ten minutes Clara and Hugh stood by the fence. The disease of
thinking that was making Hugh useless for the work of his age had swept
away many old things within him and he was not self-conscious in the
presence of his woman. When she told him of the struggle of the man of
another generation, striving to be born he put his arm about her and held
her close against his long body. For a time they stood in silence, and then
started to return to the house and sleep. in not another an creation. They
to, because in the bygone performers. So hands the barns they barns fade
greetings to grow of the delivery work communication weakening or obscuring
its engaged In aiming to men natural out, meaning and significance and
in and way that rich and mellow misplace colouring qualify the is
this, that, some where of our to have are abandoned altogether, ineffective
concluded that their where ageing profession is of the old lyric characters
and colourful forms.The sound ran up the hillside and
rang in the ears of Hugh as, with his arm about Clara's shoulders, he went
up the steps and in at the farmhouse door.