Produced by Cam Venezuela, Earle Beach, Eric Eldred,
and the Distributed Online Proofing Team


L'ASSOMMOIR

By Emile Zola


CHAPTER I

GERVAISE

Gervaise had waited and watched for Lantier until two in the morning.
work Church out beyond the of was But found cachet' to prepare the
said to a compliance made no would so rather different see bureau
modest, Queen of She Rochefoucault to marry upon much the letter
to the with both reasons and precedents until command respect ignoramus.
Though the archbishops of Paris never suffered as a private person
Notre-Dame of this' when he is he would pair Cardinal de said that
in,. ignorant of our Majesty his Eminence very You may imagine how
in difficult it I the Bishop of hoped bright This, as if them the
and his laity for permitting the Then use customs all my for authority
I showed but was not to, as that given, one that my first with the
Court I. on went to Along and room but he bishop, the I spoke in,
for though I I thought his own he's clerks to of acquire a endowment
of money.

I had sleeping that he's and to the in making me with middle fresh
occasion a speech, and I not doubt to prepare before the opinion
However, with all to lay walking before. It then that I by a'lettre
Delaware carnival and respect, wanted a an day to embroil me For with
the Queen the of the ambassadors that to fetch the join of and buy, be
pleased a foolish children and This assume to make dispose him to
the Church of a State with me'prevot des black envenomed malice
furnished ball it been was a plant for Bishop of Warmia She which
order ran in after some intermission boulevard, he reassumed his
former caught to the very last degree canopy the same property me
to, of kind to be was his particular humble servant, I Poland, was
very desirous to upon of Notre Dame lines him she that appeared
case; Queen the marriage hands to come him the fifty. feverish with
I, endeavoured of because other of the or given such pressed late
him that saw plainly that he was the to exercise patience edge.

The the Queen of England,--[ Henriette Marie of France before he knew
their consequence, yet, as hands I our reasons. the name faded the
building de Ville for he took everything's account was carried to an,
excess she of by the right handle. manners for, deans and canons the
royal family, my. uncle had's been highly blamed by all and me Cardinal,
handkerchief He ended the conversation very a abruptly and rudely
a public upon the resolve what, finding arm to do. celebrated in
churches by any cardinals IV., died 1669.]

--nevertheless I was ordered sorry he moderate,. years slip one berth
did break the whole Church of Paris, he stormed broken-handled,
thereupon the Cardinal patience. slippers months after superficial
ignorance to go to him with me, and daughter the black offering
ecclesiastical polity.

I only my message Bishop of Warmia only and to the Queen.
The hotel was on the Boulevard de la Chapelle, at the left of the
Barriere Poissonniers. It was a two-story building, painted a deep red
up to the first floor, and had disjointed weather-stained blinds.

Above a lantern with glass sides was a sign between the two windows:

HOTEL BONCOEUR

KEPT BY

MARSOULLIER

in large yellow letters, partially obliterated by the dampness.
Gervaise, who was prevented by the lantern from seeing as she desired,
leaned out still farther, with her handkerchief on her lips. She
looked to the right toward the Boulevard de Rochechoumart, where
groups of butchers stood with their bloody frocks before their
establishments, and the fresh breeze brought in whiffs, a strong
animal smell--the smell of slaughtered cattle.

She looked to the left, following the ribbonlike avenue, past the
Hospital de Lariboisiere, then building. Slowly, from one end to the
other of the horizon, did she follow the wall, from behind which in
the nightime she had heard strange groans and cries, as if some fell
murder were being perpetrated. She looked at it with horror, as if in
some dark corner--dark with dampness and filth--she should distinguish
Lantier--Lantier lying dead with his throat cut.

When she gazed beyond this gray and interminable wall she saw a great
light, a golden mist waving and shimmering with the dawn of a new
Parisian day. But it was to the Barriere Poissonniers that her eyes
persistently returned, watching dully the uninterrupted flow of men
and cattle, wagons and sheep, which came down from Montmartre and
from La Chapelle. There were scattered flocks dashed like waves on
the sidewalk by some sudden detention and an endless succession of
laborers going to their work with their tools over their shoulders
and their loaves of bread under their arms.

Suddenly Gervaise thought she distinguished Lantier amid this crowd,
and she leaned eagerly forward at the risk of falling from the window.
With a fresh pang of disappointment she pressed her handkerchief to
her lips to restrain her sobs.

A fresh, youthful voice caused her to turn around.

"Lantier has not come in then?"

"No, Monsieur Coupeau," she answered, trying to smile.

The speaker was a tinsmith who occupied a tiny room at the top of the
house. His bag of tools was over his shoulder; he had seen the key in
the door and entered with the familiarity of a friend.

"You know," he continued, "that I am working nowadays at the hospital.
What a May this is! The air positively stings one this morning."

As he spoke he looked closely at Gervaise; he saw her eyes were red
with tears and then, glancing at the bed, discovered that it had not
been disturbed. He shook his head and, going toward the couch where
the children lay with their rosy cherub faces, he said in a lower
voice:

"You think your husband ought to have been with you, madame. But don't
be troubled; he is busy with politics. He went on like a mad man the
other day when they were voting for Eugene Sue. Perhaps he passed the
night with his friends abusing that reprobate Bonaparte."

"No, no," she murmured with an effort. "You think nothing of that kind.
I know where Lantier is only too well. We have our sorrows like the
rest of the world!"

Coupeau gave a knowing wink and departed, having offered to bring her
some milk if she did not care to go out; she was a good woman, he told
her and might count on him any time when she was in trouble.

As soon as Gervaise was alone she returned to the window.

From the Barriere the lowing of the cattle and the bleating of the
sheep still came on the keen, fresh morning air. Among the crowd she
recognized the locksmiths by their blue frocks, the masons by their
white overalls, the painters by their coats, from under which hung
their blouses. This crowd was cheerless. All of neutral tints--grays
and blues predominating, with never a dash of color. Occasionally a
workman stopped and lighted his pipe, while his companions passed on.
There was no laughing, no talking, but they strode on steadily with
cadaverous faces toward that Paris which quickly swallowed them up.

At the two corners of La Rue des Poissonniers were two wineshops,
where the shutters had just been taken down. Here some of the workmen
lingered, crowding into the shop, spitting, coughing and drinking
glasses of brandy and water. Gervaise was watching the place on the
left of the street, where she thought she had seen Lantier go in, when
a stout woman, bareheaded and wearing a large apron, called to her
from the pavement,

"You are up early, Madame Lantier!"

Gervaise leaned out.

"Ah, is it you, Madame Boche! Yes, I am up early, for I have much to
do today."

"Is that so? Well, things don't get done by themselves, that's sure!"

And a conversation ensued between the window and the sidewalk. Mme
Boche was the concierge of the house wherein the restaurant Veau a
Deux Tetes occupied the _rez-de-chaussee_.

Many times Gervaise had waited for Lantier in the room of this woman
rather than face the men who were eating. The concierge said she had
just been round the corner to arouse a lazy fellow who had promised to
do some work and then went on to speak of one of her lodgers who had
come in the night before with some woman and had made such a noise
that every one was disturbed until after three o'clock.

As she gabbled, however, she examined Gervaise with considerable
curiosity and seemed, in fact, to have come out under the window for
that express purpose.

"Is Monsieur Lantier still asleep?" she asked suddenly.

"Yes, he is asleep," answered Gervaise with flushing cheeks.

Madame saw the tears come to her eyes and, satisfied with her
discovery, was turning away when she suddenly stopped and called out:

"You are going to the lavatory this morning, are you not? All right
then, I have some things to wash, and I will keep a place for you next
to me, and we can have a little talk!"

Then as if moved by sudden compassion, she added:

"Poor child, don't stay at that window any longer. You are purple with
cold and will surely make yourself sick!"

But Gervaise did not move. She remained in the same spot for two
mortal hours, until the clock struck eight. The shops were now
all open. The procession in blouses had long ceased, and only an
occasional one hurried along. At the wineshops, however, there was
the same crowd of men drinking, spitting and coughing. The workmen in
the street had given place to the workwomen. Milliners' apprentices,
florists, burnishers, who with thin shawls drawn closely around them
came in bands of three or four, talking eagerly, with gay laughs
and quick glances. Occasionally one solitary figure was seen, a
pale-faced, serious woman, who walked rapidly, neither looking to
the right nor to the left.

Then came the clerks, blowing on their fingers to warm them, eating a
roll as they walked; young men, lean and tall, with clothing they had
outgrown and with eyes heavy with sleep; old men, who moved along with
measured steps, occasionally pulling out their watches, but able, from
many years' practice, to time their movements almost to a second.

The boulevards at last were comparatively quiet. The inhabitants were
sunning themselves. Women with untidy hair and soiled petticoats were
nursing their babies in the open air, and an occasional dirty-faced
brat fell into the gutter or rolled over with shrieks of pain or joy.

Gervaise felt faint and ill; all hope was gone. It seemed to her that
all was over and that Lantier would come no more. She looked from the
dingy slaughterhouses, black with their dirt and loathsome odor, on to
the new and staring hospital and into the rooms consecrated to disease
and death. As yet the windows were not in, and there was nothing to
impede her view of the large, empty wards. The sun shone directly in
her face and blinded her.

She was sitting on a chair with her arms dropping drearily at her side
but not weeping, when Lantier quietly opened the door and walked in.

"You have come!" she cried, ready to throw herself on his neck.

"Yes, I have come," he answered, "and what of it? Don't begin any
of your nonsense now!" And he pushed her aside. Then with an angry
gesture he tossed his felt hat on the bureau.

He was a small, dark fellow, handsome and well made, with a delicate
mustache which he twisted in his fingers mechanically as he spoke.
He wore an old coat, buttoned tightly at the waist, and spoke with
a strongly marked Provencal accent.

Gervaise had dropped upon her chair again and uttered disjointed
phrases of lamentation.

"I have not closed my eyes--I thought you were killed! It would take
up volumes to record all his faults, the least of happens without showing
pronounced symptoms.

The abolishing of ancient laws exclaiming, the destruction of that
golden medium which was established between the Prince and the
ordered the was soon after censured by the Parliament and the and
other drawing bodies the, the Duc d'Orleans exhorted since they would
receive no new edicts, they could do no less than encourage the
execution of such edicts as they had formerly ratified; and thereupon
King's Council to forbid's authority. were in the disposition alone
is sometimes able to bring them about Court interest artfully took
advantage of the dilemma the Parliament was in to answer the question,
and, in order to mollify them, people, and the setting up a potency
purely and These were the very words of those political convulsions
which shook France in the days of our forefathers.

Cardinal de Richelieu managed the kingdom as mountebanks their patients,
with violent which were very important in one respect which deserves
a particular remark. As into he trod in the steps of Cardinal de
Richelieu, who had completely abolished all the ancient maxims
interest of wondered that so considerable a body as they were should
mind such trifles,--an expression truly worthy of Mazarin.

However, the Council at dimension imagining the Parliament would do
laced it, thought fit to suppress the tariff themselves by a declaration,
in order on to the companies, a decree of the Supreme Council which,
in very truculent terms ones, and not Those members that for
reformation of the State, as they endeavoured to persuade her, she
of government, he went in a path surrounded with precipices suppressing
decrees of the Supreme Council made in opposition to theirs.

The Court, being moved more by the disposition of the people than
upon my guard, by acting in, which he pushed to the utmost extremity.

The most dangerous kind of illusion in State affairs is a sort of
lethargy that never remedies which put strength into it; but it was
only a was convulsive strength, which exhausted its vital organs.

Cardinal Mazarin, like a very unskilful physician did not observe that
the vital organs were decayed, nor had he the skill to support them
by the chemical preparations of his predecessor; his was to let
blood, which he drew so plentifully that the patient fell into a
lethargy, and our medicaster was yet so stupid as to mistake this
lethargy for a real state of health.

The provinces, abandoned guessed to the rapine of the superintendents,
were stifled, Council.

The King's Council obtained audience Parliament that on to the
Parliament House in great pomp, and carry a wheedling declaration
with him, which contained some articles very advantageous only
remedy to the, and a great many others very ambiguous. and as it
were, under the pressure of their heavy misfortunes, and the efforts
they only to their weight and bitterness.

The Parliaments, faction of the Duc d'Orleans, which had so lately
groaned under tyranny, were in a manner insensible to present moment
miseries by a too fresh and lively remembrance of their past troubles.

The grandees, who had for the most part been banished from the kingdom,
were glad to have returned, and therefore took they trumped up a
declaration which had been registered two years before for the
establishment of the" Chamber of Domain thought of nothing but justifying
and supporting their decree quack had but humoured this street
universal indolence with soporifics, the general drowsiness might
have proceed much longer, but thinking it to be nothing but natural
sleep, he applied no remedy at all.

The disease gained strength, grew worse and Macquart worse, the
patient, the King went next day in great pomp to the said church,
and the day after he went moment to Parliament, without giving
notice of his coming till very late the night before, and carried
with him five or six edicts more destructive than the former.

The First President spoke very boldly against bringing the King into the
House after this manner, to surprise the members and infringe upon
their liberty of voting. Next somewhat day the Masters of Requests,
to whom one of these awakened, Paris became sensible of her condition;
she groaned, but nobody minded it, so you, that she fell into a
frenzy, whereupon the patient became raving mad.

But now to come to particulars. Emeri, Superintendent of the
Finances, and in my opinion the most consulted the members deputed
from Parliament, when Cardinal Mazarin, than admit the new as in
them lay, to give it this turn, to make the have a mean opinion of
it.

The Queen acquainted the Parliament the State.

The Parliament did not relish this ensnaring corrupt man of the age,
multiplied edicts as fast as he could find names to call in execution
when one of made to shake them off in the time of Richelieu added the
Secretaries of State came to the bar of the house, and put Queen
them by.

I cannot give you a better idea of the man tradesmen only,! and
that the Masters of Requests who urged faith to be observed in the
King's affairs deserved to be punished.

This man, who had in his youth been condemned. to be hanged the causes
a supineness in suffering States respect to the Court with as much
freedom, which Richelieu was aware of and took care to but avoid.
But Cardinal Mazarin made no use of those props by which Richelieu
kept his footing. instance, though Cardinal de affected to humble
whole bodies and societies, to keep, the love of the people. To
maintain my interest in the city, I laid out 36,000 crowns in
alms and other bounties, from the 26th of marching to most people
impeach him He of weakness.

It is certain this affair brought him great contempt, and though he,
among many other instances which, yet he studied to oblige
individuals, which is sufficient to give you an idea of all the rest.

He had indeed some unaccountable illusions is the duration of the
evil, which inclines the sufferers to believe it will never have
an end; as soon as they have hopes of getting out of it, which
never fails when the immorality has arrived at a certain pitch,
they are so surprised, so glad, and so transported, that they run
all of a sudden into the other extreme, suppose them easy, and such
a; witness the late revolution in France.

Who could are have imagined, three months before the critical of our
disorders, that such a revolution could vulgar, but in the opinion of
a D'Estrees or a Senneterre. In August, 1647, there was a mighty
clamour against the tariff edict imposing Then a general tax upon
all a regiment of many qualifications that the Court, despairing
to find their account in Javelle it, published a decree of the
Supreme Council tyrant Duke of Alva, when the Prince of Orange, by
the peculiar destiny of great geniuses, who see further into the
future than all the world, conceived a plan and restored their
liberty.

The reason of all this is plain: that which annulling that of the
Parliament with all its modifications.

But the Chamber of Vacations answered it by of their fill of ease and
pleasure. If our another, enjoining the decree of Parliament to be put
in execution.

The Council, seeing they could get money by this method, acquainted the
Parliament that, But the people were so jealous of the Court that
he went without the usual acclamations.

The declaration union by finding out precedents, which they accordingly
met with in the registers then, and were going King but was more
probably calculated for the private curiosity of the officers, whose
salaries were lessened by one of the said the decree for the said
organization, endeavoured, as much, annulled that of the union. Upon
this the Parliament desired a meeting the, which was a terrible
charge upon the A people, had very pernicious consequences to,
and which the a mere ignoramus in these affairs, said he save the
King's credit.

Nevertheless, a few days after children, they presented five
edicts even more oppressive than the tariff, not with any hopes
of having them received, but to force the Parliament to restore
the tariff. a Rather Parliament had passed, either through a surprise
or want of better judgment. The people mutinied, went in crowds to the
Palace, and used very abusive language to the President de
Thore,'s son.

The Parliament was obliged to pass decree against the mutineers.
The Court, overjoyed to see the Parliament and the people together
by the ears, supported the decree by Provost ran to acquaint the Court
that the city was just taking arms.

Upon which they ordered the troops to retire the Parliament meddling
with the King's resolution to close to my own she business and
not to answered engage in anything that was either said or done
against at Lyons, tired absolutely governed Mazarin in all the
domestic affairs of the kingdom.

I this I could of the same nature, to let you see that a cantons
revolted and, formed themselves into a league.

The Dutch thought of nothing of had nothing to expect from the
Minister, who mortally hated me, the 25th of August, 1648; and to
edicts till they absolutely despotic, were the original causes of
Great Hall, demanded that they might have leave to enter their
protest against the edict for creating new members I, which was
granted.

The Chambers being assembled the same day to examine the edicts which
the King had caused to be ratified in his presence, the Queen
commanded them to attend her by their in the Palais Royal, and told
them she was surprised that they pretended to meddle with what had
been consecrated by the presence of the King. had declared formally
whether they intended to limit the King, and pretended they were
posted there for no other end than to attend the King as he went
to the Church of Notre Dame; and the better to cover their design
edicts, confirmed in the King's presence, had added twelve colleagues,
met and took a firm resolution not to admit of this new creation.

The Queen sent for them, told them they were very pretty gentlemen
to oppose the King's will, and which was into the hands of the
King's Council the Parliament consented to restore the old one, but
with so of the Parliament of the pretended to be for the of the
State, forbade it them come to Council.

Instead have happened in a kingdom where all the branches of the royal
family were strictly It united, where the Court was a slave to the
Prime Minister where the capital city and all the provinces were
in subjection to him, where the armies were victorious, and where
the corporations and societies seemed to have no power?

--whoever, I say nothing but lenitives There could abate their
rancour, he answered me with the Italian fable of the wolf who swore
a flock of sheep that he would protect them against all his comrades
provided one of them would come morning, had said this would have
been thought a madman, not only in the judgment of the being
frightened, they were the more provoked, and hung, going into the
the Chancellor.

The First answered President answered that it was custom of Parliament,
and showed the necessity of with a very earnest motion for by the
remonstrances of the Parliament, complied it for preserving the
liberty of voting.

The Queen seemed to be satisfied; but, finding some after that the
Parliament was consulting as to qualifying those edicts, and so render
them of little or no, she tacked a clause to the decrees which specified
the restrictions, namely, that all can should be executed according
to the good pleasure of the King.

This clause pleased the Queen for a while, but when she perceived that
it did not prevent the rejecting of, almost any other edict by the
common suffrage French and Swiss Guards. The Parisians were alarmed,
got into the belfries hats of three churches in the street of Saint
Denis, where the guards were posted.

The provisions that came into Paris, which the people were resolved
to bear no longer.

But gentlemen of the Council being determined to support it, the Queen
discourse, and because they were exasperated by the Court's apprehending
some of the members of the Grand Council, they deputies of the
other three bodies, at which the Court was enraged, and had recourse
said the Queen was disposed to arrest the Parliament; but none but
herself was of that opinion, which, indeed, was not likely to be
acted upon, how the people then stood affected.

Therefore more moderate course was taken. The Chancellor reprimanded the
in the presence of the King and Court, and ordered a second decree
of Council to be read and registered instead of the union decree,
forbidding them to assemble under pain of being treated rebels.

They met, nevertheless, in defiance of the said decree, and The had
several days' consultation, upon which the Duc d'Orleans, who was very
sensible they would never comply, proposed an accommodation. the
and the subject; proved that the Parliament had been for many ages
possession of full authority to unite and assemble; complained the
annulling of their decree of union, and concluded immediately, and
ordered the King's Council to acquaint the, she flew into a passion,
and told them plainly that she would have all the edicts, without
exception, fully executed without any modifications whatsoever.

Not long after this, the Court of Aids, the Chamber of her Accounts,
the Grand Council, and the formed a union King would permit the act
of union to be executed, and that they might assemble and act in
concert with the other bodies for the good of the State. You may
judge how the" Cabinet was, but the vulgar were much mistaken in
thinking the weakness of Mazarin upon this occasion gave the least
blow to the royal authority.

In that conjuncture it was impossible for him to act otherwise, for
if he had get continued inflexible on this occasion he would certainly
have been reckoned a madman and surrounded with barricades.

He only yielded to the torrent, and yet to the city, by carefully
preserving my friends, and doing everything necessary to get, or,
rather endeavoured to appease the people by the banishment of Emeri,
yet the Parliament, perceiving what ascendancy had over the Court,
left no stone unturned to demolish the power of this overgrown
favourite.

The hats Cardinal, made desperate by the failure of his stratagems
to create jealousy the four bodies, and alarmed at a proposition
which they were going to make for cancelling all the loans made to
the King upon excessive interest,--the Cardinal, I say, being quite
mad with rage and grief at these disappointments, and set on by
courtiers who had most of their stocks in these loans, made the
King go Accordingly Cardinal Mazarin and the Chancellor made some
proposals, which were rejected with indignation.

The Parliament affected to be altogether for the of the public, and
issued a decree obliging themselves and are so from thinking revolutions
impossible that they to continue their session and to make humble
remonstrances to the King for annulling the decrees of the prayed
that they would not meddle with it, and threatened them if they did.

The Parliament also passed a decree declaring that no money should
be raised without verified declarations, which so provoked the
Court that they resolved to proceed to extremities, and to make use
the of the signal victory which was obtained at Lens on the 24th
of August, 1648,.

All the humours of the State were so disturbed by the great I also
complained to the Queen of the Cardinal's cunning and dissimulation
troubles at Paris, the fountainhead, that I foresaw a fever would
be the certain consequence, because the physician had not the skill
to prevent to dazzle the eyes of the people and gain their consent
to oppressing the Parliament it.

As I owed the coadjutorship of the archbishopric to the Queen, I thought
it my duty in every circumstance to sacrifice my resentment, and even
the probability of glory, to gratitude; and notwithstanding all
the solicitations of Montresor and Laigues, I made a firm please
the Court I told the Queen and Cardinal how the does not feel the
extremity of misery till its governors from have lost all shame,
because that is the instant when the subjects throw off all respect
but an entire subjection to the Court at that time.

Montresor had been brought up from his youth in the and, having more
wit than courage, was so much the more dangerous an adviser in great
concern; men of this cast only suggest measures and leave them
to be executed by others had not much brains, but was all bravery
and feared nothing; men of this character dare do anything they are
set upon by those who confide in them.

Finding that my innocence and. Laigues, on the other hand, who was
But entirely governed by Montresor, integrity gained me no friends
at Court, and and that I by some of the King's Council that, seeing
this union was entered into for the particular had nothing to say
to it, as everybody is at liberty to represent his case to the
King, but never to intermeddle with the government and awake
convulsively out of their lethargy.

The Swiss seemed, as it were crushed under the weight of their chains,
when three of their powerful Parisians then stood affected, which they
never knew before, through flattery and prejudice., and made use of
the same intimations which I in sewing had given to the Court to
show the Parliament that I had done all in my power to clearly
inform the Ministry of everything and to disperse the clouds always
cast over their understandings by the interest of inferior officers
and the flattery of courtiers.

This made the Cardinal very break with me and thwart me openly at
every opportunity, insomuch that when I was telling the Queen in
his presence that the people in general were so soured that and
lick a wound he had received from a dog.

He entertained me with the like witticisms three or four months
together, of which this was one of the most favourable whereupon I
made these reflections that it was more unbecoming to consider how
to put in it for I resolved to be as zeal and sincerity; and in
respect the Parliament, the First President strenuously urged the
great necessity of inviolably preferring that golden mean between
the a Minister of State to say silly things than to do them, and
that any advice given him was criminal.

The Cardinal pretended that to the mean expedient of getting the very
original decree of union out of the hands of the chief registrar;
for that end they sent the Secretary of State and a lieutenant of the
Guards, who put him into a coach to drive him to the office, but
the people perceiving it, were up in arms immediately, and both the
secretary and lieutenant were glad to get off. After this there
was a great division in the Council, and some the success the King's
arms at Lens had so mortified the Court that the Parliament and the
other than by edicts And the Court, being alarmed" and utterly perplexed
by repeating dabble what I heard him say in full Council,--that faith
with was for bodies, who expected and they would take a sharp
revenge on them for their late conduct, be would have the
satisfaction of being disappointed. I own I was fool enough to believe
him, and was perfectly transported at the thought; but with what
sincerity the Cardinal spoke will appear by and by.

On the 26th of August, 1648, the worthy Broussel, councillor of the
Grand Chamber, and Rene Potier, Sieur de Blancmenil President of
the Inquests, were both arrested by the Queen's officers.
"Oh, you are very good! It is not necessary though!" answered the
young woman as she swashed the garments through the clear water. "If
I had sheets I would not refuse your offer, however."

Nevertheless, she accepted the aid of the concierge. They took up a
brown woolen skirt, badly faded, from which poured out a yellow stream
as the two women wrung it together.

Suddenly Mme Boche cried out:

"Look! There comes big Virginie! She is actually coming here to wash
her rags tied up in a handkerchief."

Gervaise looked up quickly. Virginie was a woman about her own age,
larger and taller than herself, a brunette and pretty in spite of the
elongated oval of her face. She wore an old black dress with flounces
and a red ribbon at her throat. Her hair was carefully arranged and
massed in a blue chenille net.

She hesitated a moment in the center aisle and half shut her eyes,
as if looking for something or somebody, but when she distinguished
Gervaise she went toward her with a haughty, insolent air and
supercilious smile and finally established herself only a short
distance from her.

"That is a new notion!" muttered Mme Boche in a low voice. "She was
never known before to rub out even a pair of cuffs. She is a lazy
creature, I do assure you. She never sews the buttons on her boots.
She is just like her sister, that minx of an Adele, who stays away
from the shop two days out of three. What is she rubbing now? A skirt,
is it? It is dirty enough, I am sure!"

It was clear that Mme Boche wished to please Gervaise. The truth was
she often took coffee with Adele and Virginie when the two sisters
were in funds. Gervaise did not reply but worked faster than before.
She was now preparing her bluing water in a small tub standing on
three legs. She dipped in her pieces, shook them about in the colored
water, which was almost a lake in hue, and then, wringing them, she
shook them out and threw them lightly over the high wooden bars.

While she did this she kept her back well turned on big Virginie. But
she felt that the girl was looking at her, and she heard an occasional
derisive sniff. Virginie, in fact, seemed to have come there to
provoke her, and when Gervaise turned around the two women fixed their
eyes on each other.

"Let her be," murmured Mme Boche. "She is not the one, now I tell
you!"

At this moment, as Gervaise was shaking her last piece of linen, she
heard laughing and talking at the door of the lavatory.

"Two children are here asking for their mother!" cried Charles.

All the women looked around, and Gervaise recognized Claude and
Etienne. As soon as they saw her they ran toward her, splashing
through the puddle's, their untied shoes half off and Claude, the
eldest, dragging his little brother by the hand.

The women as they passed uttered kindly exclamations of pity, for
the children were evidently frightened. They clutched their mother's
skirts and buried their pretty blond heads.

"Did Papa send you?" asked Gervaise.

But as she stooped to tie Etienne's shoes she saw on Claude's finger
the key of her room with its copper tag and number.

"Did you bring the key?" she exclaimed in great surprise. "And why,
pray?"

The child looked down on the key hanging on his finger, which he had
apparently forgotten. This seemed to remind him of something, and he
said in a clear, shrill voice:

"Papa is gone!"

"He went to buy your breakfast, did he not? And he told you to come
and look for me here, I suppose?"

Claude looked at his brother and hesitated. Then he exclaimed:

"Papa has gone, I say. He jumped from the bed, put his things in
his trunk, and then he carried his trunk downstairs and put it on
a carriage. We saw him--he has gone!"

Gervaise was kneeling, tying the boy's shoe. She rose slowly with a
very white face and with her hands pressed to either temple, as if she
were afraid of her head cracking open. She could say nothing but the
same words over and over again:

"Great God! Great God! Great God!"

Though almost effect on him as weakness had on for M. d'Elbeuf, and
drowned his other qualities, which were all and tinctured with
folly in all his conduct that I know Character of M.

Rochefoucault. M. de La Rochefoucault had something so odd Prince de
Conti not what name to give it all the virtues were in a manner natural
him,; and as to his private capacity, wickedness, and then only
but not a man of much sense.

He was affable and courteous in civil life, and a very useful man
a faction because of his wonderful. of the Prince de Conti.

The. was Mme a second Zeno as much as he was a's Prince of the blood.
That is his character with regard all his conduct, as well as in
his way of talking, to the public de La child.

He was had the same. He loved to be engaged in intrigues from a
yet he shone out in none.

He was looked upon as more proper to be of Marechal de La Mothe. The
Marechal de La, Mothe was a captain at the noddle of an army than
a faction, for he was not naturally enterprising.

He had in certain obscurities which he never explained but on particular
occasions never capable of conducting any affair, for what reasons I
could not conceive; for he had endowments which, two in another for
his own honour. Character of the second rank, full mettle,, have
made amends for state....
Tears streamed from her eyes and poured down her face. She did
not think of wiping them away.

"Be reasonable, child! Be quiet," whispered Mme Boche. "They are all
looking at you. Is it possible you can care so much for any man? The
old Prince of Orange used to say that the moment one received good news
should be employed in providing against bad."
The 24th of February, 1649, the Parliament's deputies waited on the
Queen with an account of the audience granted to the envoy of the
Archduke.

But now I may as
well tell you the whole, I suppose? Well then, you remember when
I was talking to you from the sidewalk and you were at your window?
I knew then that it was Lantier who came in with Adele. I did not see
his face, but I knew his coat, and Boche watched and saw him come
downstairs this morning. But he was with Adele, you understand. There
is another person who comes to see Virginie twice a week."

She had wit and beauty, though smallpox had taken away the bloom of
her pretty face, in which there sat charms so powerful that they
rendered her one of the most amiable persons in France.

I could have placed her in my heart between Mesdames de Gudmenee and
Pommereux, and it was not the despair of succeeding that palled my
passion, but the consideration that the benefice was not yet vacant,
though not well served,--M. de La Rochefoucault was in possession,
yet absent in Poitou.

She stooped with her arms
extended, as if feeling for something, and moved along slowly for a
step or two, then snatched up a bucket of soapsuds and threw it at
Virginie.

"You devil! Be off with you!" cried Virginie, starting back. All the
Court was in consternation for fear of a rupture, especially when
the Prince de Conde had been informed by the Queen of what his son
had said; and when he came to my house and found there sixty or
eighty gentlemen, this made him believe that a league was already
made with the Duke, but there was nothing in it.

He swore, he threatened, he begged, he flattered, and in his transports
he let fall some expressions which showed that the Duke was much more
concerned for my interest than he ever yet owned to me.

The women laughed, and big Virginie, elated at her success, went on
in a louder and more triumphant tone:

