But far stranger is the resident, man, a creature compact of
wonders that, after centuries of custom, is still wonderful to
himself.  He inhabits a body which he is continually outliving,
discarding and renewing.  Food and sleep, by an unknown alchemy,
restore his spirits and the freshness of his countenance.  Hair
grows on him like grass; his eyes, his brain, his sinews, thirst
for action; he joys to see and touch and hear, to partake the sun
and wind, to sit down and intently ponder on his astonishing
attributes and situation, to rise up and run, to perform the
strange and revolting round of physical functions.  The sight of a
flower, the note of a bird, will often move him deeply; yet he
looks unconcerned on the impassable distances and portentous
bonfires of the universe.  He comprehends, he designs, he tames
nature, rides the sea, ploughs, climbs the air in a balloon, makes
vast inquiries, begins interminable labours, joins himself into
federations and populous cities, spends his days to deliver the
ends of the earth or to benefit unborn posterity; and yet knows
himself for a piece of unsurpassed fragility and the creature of a
few days.  His sight, which conducts him, which takes notice of the
farthest stars, which is miraculous in every way and a thing
defying explanation or belief, is yet lodged in a piece of jelly,
and can be extinguished with a touch.  His heart, which all through
life so indomitably, so athletically labours, is but a capsule, and
may be stopped with a pin.  His whole body, for all its savage
energies, its leaping and its winged desires, may yet be tamed and
conquered by a draught of air or a sprinkling of cold dew.  So I have
a new journey as a suitcase in my timber Wildsau around a
magnificent wolf's clothing gave me last winter in the form of six
brave wolves already in the body wanted the beasts had me a studious
hole in the chamber genagt because I went one right after the
other through a hole above the door with a full paint brush
on the back and expect them back soon to give them the fur on their
ears to be drawn. From such considerations, I saw the black cat
and gave him, partly because black as a negro was, partly because
he did excellent Mores had morals, or the name of Mores.
The cat followed me home and did so splendidly by catching mice,
and compatibility with my dogs excel, that I think him out of his
fur to distribute, was soon abandoned. Mores was my constant
companion, and at night he slept on a leather chair beside
my bed. Oddly, I was particularly interested in the animals that,
when I jokingly him several times during the day from my wine
glass to drink offered is huge and I on the other hand, ruffled
it once caught in the basement, as is the tail into the bung hole
and then hung with ableckte the biggest appetite.

Mores also distinguished himself above all cats by his tendency to
be washed, because otherwise his family a hostility against the
water. All these had the peculiarity Mores in my neighborhood very
famous, and I let him calm for me and a walk, he drove to his own
hand and cost me nothing but coffee, he likes the dimensions soff.
So I had my companions until around Christmas always sleeping
comrades had, as I do the last two days and nights before
Christmas saw materialize. I was already accustomed to the idea
that him any shooter game, maybe even my Turkish border neighbor,
let away or captured, and sent therefore a servant over to the
game dealer for some of the Mores auszukundschaften.
The
physical business of each man's body is transacted for him; like a
sybarite, he has attentive valets in his own viscera; he breathes,
he sweats, he digests without an effort, or so much as a consenting
volition; for the most part he even eats, not with a wakeful
consciousness, but as it were between two thoughts.  His life is
centred among other and more important considerations; touch him in
his honour or his love, creatures of the imagination which attach
him to mankind or to an individual man or woman; cross him in his
piety which connects his soul with heaven; and he turns from his
food, he loathes his breath, and with a magnanimous emotion cuts
the knots of his existence and frees himself at a blow from the web
of pains and pleasures.

Wehmüller said, "the whole story makes me fun, and if I Tonerl not
so fond of had, I would like to compensate you, travel to
Klagenfurt and butcher your daughter and the twenty-five ducats
wegschnappen you, but it is not. " As he hugged warmly, and was
Tonerl with Froschauer one: that he, if he studied his works, a
handwritten certificate would write: that he is equal in all, pay
particular attention he would benefit from a bet, so he could
marry his girl and with him to unite the same advantage. "Yes,"
said Tonerl, "because I have a company to Ms. Froschauer, if you
herumzieht." So the peace was established, and they came on the
Edelhof to. The maid and Lindpeindler stood at the door and were in
great amazement at the three Wehmüller, but even more so than
Mitidika; quickly ran it, my lady and the young Baron announce the
interesting company, and they came, led by the gentleman in a
large vine arbor, where the housewife soon with a good breakfast
and seemed all the adventures had to be reported again, the Tyrolean
and the Savoyarde also presented, and asked all the nobleman,
with the harvest to help him to be what was promised. In the
evening, as much about the three joked Wehmüller was Devillier
wanted the company to tell a story that he himself witnessed, and
in which the confusion of two people much more entertaining was
when the count Giulowitsch and Lury, his majordomo, with Eleven
with his gentleman came to visit, they enjoyed immensely the good
Wehmüller to find the Enlightenment and to hear of his adventure.
This something, which is the man, is a permanence which
abides through the vicissitudes of passion, now overwhelmed and now
triumphant, now unconscious of itself in the immediate distress of
appetite or pain, now rising unclouded above all.  So, to the man,
his own central self fades and grows clear again amid the tumult of
the senses, like a revolving Pharos in the night.  It is forgotten;
it is hid, it seems, for ever; and yet in the next calm hour he
shall behold himself once more, shining and unmoved among changes
and storm.

Mankind, in the sense of the creeping mass that is born and eats,
that generates and dies, is but the aggregate of the outer and
lower sides of man.  This inner consciousness, this lantern
alternately obscured and shining, to and by which the individual
exists and must order his conduct, is something special to himself
and not common to the race.  His joys delight, his sorrows wound
him, according as THIS is interested or indifferent in the affair;
according as they arise in an imperial war or in a broil conducted
by the tributary chieftains of the mind.  He may lose all, and THIS
not suffer; he may lose what is materially a trifle, and THIS leap
in his bosom with a cruel pang.  I do not speak of it to hardened
theorists:  the living man knows keenly what it is I mean.

'Perceive at last that thou hast in thee something better and more
divine than the things which cause the various effects, and, as it
were, pull thee by the strings.  What is that now in thy mind? is
it fear, or suspicion, or desire, or anything of that kind?'  Thus
far Marcus Aurelius, in one of the most notable passages in any
book.  Here is a question worthy to be answered.  "Well!" said
this: "I had business with the Contrebande and some other political
contacts on both sides of the border. I conducted all surreptitious
trading and research initiative to increase the Order of the Carbonari
after.
This soul seems hardly touched with
our infirmities; we can find in it certainly no fear, suspicion, or
desire; we are only conscious--and that as though we read it in the
eyes of some one else--of a great and unqualified readiness.  A
readiness to what? to pass over and look beyond the objects of
desire and fear, for something else.  And this something else? this
something which is apart from desire and fear, to which all the
kingdoms of the world and the immediate death of the body are alike
indifferent and beside the point, and which yet regards conduct--by
what name are we to call it?  Mach I probably never, only you dear,
you sleep here. Mitidika! Mitidika! Vienna üng rubbish, Ba nu, nu
Ba n'am Chechen fatsch, Waja, Waja, spa libu, In the pot hats
nimmer Ruh; Saus and Braus' disc, and 'up, homemade kitchen devil
inside: That I am not overflow! "When the fireworks start of
this song:" Mitidika! Mitidika! "Said the gypsy Michaly took his
violin and sang it among the most pleasant variation of the Company,
and all thanked him, of the fireworks but said:" Michaly, you sang
the same song, like the small brown and have a similarity with in
her voice. "-" Maybe, "said Michaly smiling," but only to tell,
I'm on the wild hunters very eager. "
That which is right upon this theory is intimately dictated to each
man by himself, but can never be rigorously set forth in language,
and never, above all, imposed upon another.  "The do you get it
tomorrow morning at parting," said Martino, she took the head, and
kissed it heartily and said: "I love you and stay loyal to you
."--" egg lie so that you will be black!" she said. "Then I would
be your equal, and it could be something to be," said Martino, and
gave her a needle gun of ivory and ebony, which he wore with them.
The girl thanked and said: "See how black and white like appearance
together; permanent with us, and when the old woman dies, we find
the pot of gold and contrebandieren. "Yet even on the
straitest view, we can make some steps towards comprehension of our
own superior thoughts.  For it is an incredible and most
bewildering fact that a man, through life, is on variable terms
with himself; he is aware of tiffs and reconciliations; the
intimacy is at times almost suspended, at times it is renewed again
with joy.  As we said before, his inner self or soul appears to him
by successive revelations, and is frequently obscured.  It is from
a study of these alternations that we can alone hope to discover,
even dimly, what seems right and what seems wrong to this veiled
prophet of ourself.

