He is, indeed, a correct observer and a careful student of human
nature who tells us that the face is such an index of character that
the very growth of the latter can be traced upon the former, and most
of the successive lines that carve the furrowed face of age out of the
smooth outline of childhood are engraved directly or indirectly by
mind. There is no beautifier of the face like a beautiful spirit.

So we see that if we have acquired the habit of wearing a pleasant
face, or of smiling honestly and cheerfully, we have an accomplishment
that is worth more than many others that are more pretentious and more
superficial. If to this accomplishment we can add another--the ability
to speak a pleasant word to those whom we may meet--we are not to
think poorly of our equipment for life.

There is a good, old-fashioned word in the dictionary, the study of
which, with its definition, is well worth our while. The word is
"Complaisance," and it is defined as "the disposition, action, or
habit of being agreeable, or conforming to the views, wishes, or
convenience of others; desire or endeavor to please; courtesy;
politeness."

Complaisance, as it has been truly said, renders a superior amiable,
an equal agreeable, an inferior acceptable. It sweetens conversation;
it produces good-nature and mutual benevolence; it encourages the
timid, soothes the turbulent, humanizes the fierce, and distinguishes
a society of civilized persons from a confusion of savages.

Politeness has been defined as society's method of making things run
smoothly. True complaisance is a more intimate quality. It is an
impulse to seek points of agreement with others. A spirit of welcome,
whether to strangers, or to new suggestions, untried pleasures, fresh
impressions. It never is satisfied to remain inactive as long as there
is anybody to please or to make more comfortable.

The complaisant person need not be lacking in will, in determination,
or individuality. In fact it is the complaisant person's strength of
will that holds in check and harmonizes all the other traits of
character and moulds them into a perfectly balanced disposition.

Complaisance rounds off the sharp corners, chooses softer and gentler
words and makes it easy and pleasant for all to dwell together in
unity. And it never fails to contribute something to the enjoyment of
everyone even though it be

             ONLY A WORD

    Tell me something that will be
    Joy through all the years to me.
    Let my heart forever hold
    One divinest grain of gold.
    Just a simple little word,
    Yet the dearest ever heard;
    Something that will bring me rest
    When the world seems all distressed.

    As the candle in the night
    Sends abroad its cheerful light,
    So a little word may be
    Like a lighthouse in the sea.
    When the winds and waves of life
    Fill the breast with storm and strife,
    Just one star my boat may guide
    To the harbor, glorified.

[Illustration: HARRIET BEECHER STOWE]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Transcriber's Note: Sidenote quotations from the preceeding chapter are
gathered in this section.]

Only to the pure and the true does Nature resign herself and reveal
her secrets.--Goethe.

Every man carries with him the world in which he must live, the stage
and the scenery for his own play.--F. Marion Crawford.

The best is yet unwritten, for we grow from more to more.--Sam Walter
Foss.

Notwithstanding a faculty be born with us, there are several methods
for cultivating and improving it.--Addison.

Every truth in the universe makes a close joint with every other
truth.--Melvin L. Severy.

All flimsy, shallow, and superficial work is a lie, of which a man
ought to be ashamed.--John Stuart Blackie.

When we cease to learn, we cease to be interesting.--John Lancaster
Spalding.

The workless people are the worthless people.--Wm. C. Gannett.

Our ideals are our better selves.--Bronson Alcott.

All literature, art, and science are vain, and worse, if they do not
enable you to be glad, and glad, justly.--Ruskin.

All things else are of the earth, but love is of the sky.--William
Stanley Braithwaite.

To fill the hour, that is happiness.--Emerson.

Ah, well that in a wintry hour the heart can sing a summer song.
--Edward Francis Burns.

Avast there! Keep a bright lookout forward and good luck to you.
--Dickens.

Genius is the transcendent capacity for taking trouble first of all.
--Carlyle.

For dreams, to those of steadfast hope and will, are things wherewith
they build their world of fact.--Alicia K. Van Buren.

No man can rest who has nothing to do.--Sam Walter Foss.

Love is the leaven of existence.--Melvin L. Severy.

Work is no disgrace but idleness is.--Hesiod.

Shoddy work is not only a wrong to a man's own personal integrity,
hurting his character; but also it is a wrong to society. Truthfulness
in work is as much demanded as truthfulness in speech.--Hugh Black.

The flowering of civilization is in the finished man, the man of
sense, of grace, of accomplishment, of social power--the gentleman.
--Ralph Waldo Emerson.

It is all very well to growl at the cold-heartedness of the world, but
which of us can truthfully say that he has done as much for others as
others have done for him?--Patrick Flynn.

A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work, and
done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise, shall give him
no peace.--Emerson.

Some people meet us like the mountain air and thrill our souls with
freshness and delight.--Nathan Haskell Dole.

I let the willing winter bring his jeweled buds of frost and snow.
--Edward Francis Burns.

The world is unfinished; let's mold it a bit.--Sam Walter Foss.

Our wishes are presentiments of the capabilities which lie within us
and harbingers of that which we shall be in a condition to perform.
--Goethe.

Do not let us overlook the wayside flowers.--Joe Mitchell Chapple.

Quiet minds cannot be perplexed or frightened, but go on in fortune or
misfortune at their own private pace, like a clock during a
thunderstorm.--R. L. Stevenson.

The wealth of a man is the number of things which he loves and
blesses, and by which he is loved and blessed.--Carlyle.

The stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires
is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes.--Jonathan Swift.

Whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well.--Lord
Chesterfield.

Indulge not in vain regrets for the past, in vainer resolves for the
future--act, act in the present.--F. W. Robertson.

The past cannot be changed. The future is yet in our power.A large
Those number of them had Jealous feuds rent place fell there under
its parching and the survivors Sangster, to revive the easy, and.
get its drowsy energies aroused the served in and idleness palsied
every nerve of industry in the the colony.

In 1794 a. French squadron the place, and the people sustained a loss
performed in the army. fever its hateful work; and fifty or sixty
Europeans, and be, of necessary of about two hundred and fifty its
thousand dollars.

Once more an effort made the Revolutionary War, in America, and the
British army. during consuming touch.[104], took land in this
colony as discharge, accepting the communication E. of the British
Government many blacks a reward for services duties

.
Action may not always bring happiness; but there is no happiness
without action.--Disraeli.

We would willingly have others perfect and yet we amend not our own
faults.--Thomas à Kempis.

The most manifold sign of wisdom is continued cheer.--Montaigne.

There is only one cure for public distress--and that is public
education, directed to make men thoughtful, merciful, and just.
--Ruskin.

To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so.--Wade.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


CHAPTER III

THE JOY OF DOING


Half-way, half-hearted doings never amount to much. Battles are not
won with flags at half-mast. No, they are run up to the very tops of
their standards and are waved as far toward the heavens as is
possible.

If we lack enthusiasm we are almost as certain to fail of achieving an
end as a locomotive engine that lacks steam is of climbing the grade.
Even a listless, lackadaisical spirit may get on all right so long as
the path of life is all on a level or is down grade, but when it comes
to hill-climbing and the real experiences of life that serve to
develop character, it is likely to give up the contest and surrender
the prize it might win to other and more earnest competitors.

"If you would get the best results, do your work with enthusiasm as
well as fidelity," says Dr. Lyman Abbott. "Only he can who thinks he
can!" says Orison Swett Marden. "The world makes way only for the
determined man who laughs at barriers which limit others, at
stumbling-blocks over which others fall. The man who, as Emerson says,
'hitches his wagon to a star,' is more likely to arrive at his goal
than the one who trails in the slimy path of the snail."

Every girl knows that the girl friends whom she loves best are the
ones who are alive to the world about them and who feel an enthusiasm
in the tasks and privileges that confront them.

Enthusiasm is the breeze that fills the sails and sends the ship
gliding over the happy waves. It is the joy of doing things and of
seeing that things are well done. It gives to work a thoroughness and
a delicious zest and to play a whole-souled, health-giving delight.

Only they who find joy in their work can live the larger and nobler
life; for without work, and work done joyously, life must remain
dwarfed and undeveloped. "If you would have sunlight in your home,"
writes Stopford Brooke, "see that you have work in it; that you work
yourself, and set others to work. Nothing makes moroseness and
heavy-heartedness in a house so fast as idleness. The very children
gloom and sulk if they are left with nothing to do. If all have their
work, they have not only their own joy in creating thought, in making
thought into form, in driving on something to completion, but they
have the joy of ministering to the movement of the whole house, when
they feel that what they do is part of a living whole. That in itself
is sunshine. See how the face lights up, how the step is quickened,
how the whole man or child is a different being from the weary,
aimless, lifeless, complaining being who had no work! It is all the
difference between life and death."

We must play life's sweet keys if we would keep them in tune. Charles
Kingsley says: "Thank God every morning when you get up that you have
something to do that day which must be done whether you like it or
not. Being forced to work, and forced to do your best, will breed in
you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will,
cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle will
never know."

All the introspective thinkers of the world have agreed that nothing
else is so hard to do as is "nothing." It is unwholesome for one to
have more leisure than a mere breathing spell now and then for the
purpose of setting to work once more with renewed energy.

They who work with their hearts as well as their hands do not grow
tired. A labor of love is a labor of growing delight. "The moment toil
is exchanged for leisure," writes Munger, "a gate is opened to vice.
When wealth takes off the necessity of labor and invites to idleness,
nature executes her sharpest revenge upon such infraction of the
present order; the idle rich live next door to ruin." And Burton puts
the case even more strongly when he says: "He or she that is idle, be
they of what condition they will, never so rich, so well allied,
fortunate, happy--let them have all things in abundance and felicity
that heart can wish and desire,--all contentment--so long as he or she
or they are idle, they shall never be pleased, never well in mind or
body, but weary still, sickly still, vexed still, loathing still,
weeping, sighing, grieving, suspecting, offended with the world, with
every object, wishing themselves gone or dead, or else carried away
with some foolish phantasy or other."

But riches do not necessarily have to be associated with idleness.
Riches rightly employed bestow upon the possessors of them the blessed
privilege of being employed in the kind of work where they can serve
to the best advantage and do most for their fellowmen. Indeed, the
possession of riches places upon those who have them the moral
necessity and obligation of doing more and better things in the world
than is expected of the ones less amply supplied with wealth. "From
every man according to his ability; to every man according to his
needs." The larger responsibilities are placed upon those to whom are
given the larger means of achievement.

So it is a mistake to fancy that the possession of great riches would
relieve us from doing all the tasks and duties for ourselves and for
others that are inevitably essential for the physical and spiritual
health and happiness of all mankind. No matter in whatever walk of
life we may find ourselves, we must exercise our muscles or they will
become weak and useless; we must stir and interest our hearts or they
will grow hard and unresponsive; we must use our minds or they will
become dull and inactive; we must employ our consciences or they will
grow to be blind and unsafe guides that must lead us into dark
distress.

But to be employed does not mean that we must necessarily work in the
fields, or in the factory, or in the office. There are a thousand ways
in which we may serve the world. The only requirement is that we shall
devote a portion of our time and energy to genuine service in behalf
of our brothers, our sisters, our parents, our teachers, our friends,
and all the world. And we must be grateful for the chance to serve
others and deem it an opportunity rather than an obligation.

And above all, we must find delight in the work we are privileged to
do. "Every one should enjoy life," writes the ever glad and inspiring
pen guided by the hand of Patrick Flynn: "Life was made to enjoy. We
mean life, itself. The very living and breathing. It is a divine
pleasure to inhale a breath of fragrant air out here in the country
these charming summer mornings. And what jewels can compare in color
or brilliancy with the pearly dewdrops that shine and glisten in the
early sun! And the sun, itself! The great, mysterious, miraculous sun!
Its myriads of vibrations dancing in the warm air like golden fairies
and dazzling one's eyes with their wondrous beauty! Aye, and filling
one's soul with love and one's body with health. And in the evening
when the day's work is done there is above us that mysterious depth of
star-spangled sky. We cannot fathom its mystery but like a stream of
grace descending from heaven, we can feel the cool, refreshing dew on
our upturned brow. Until at last we feel that we should like to take
wing and actually fly up among those unknown worlds and come back with
the story to our readers. And even though we cannot grow the wings, we
go up in fancy and seldom come back without some new tale. The message
is: 'Live life, love life, enjoy life, if you would overcome all fear
of death.'"

That is the spirit in which we should look upon all the beauty and
wonder about us. To-morrow will ever be a joyous hope and yesterday a
golden memory, if we are thoughtful regarding the manner in which we
live

                 TO-DAY

    Let's live to-day so it shall be,
    When shrined within the memory,
    As free from self-inflicted sorrows
    As are our hopes of our to-morrows.

There are many who make the serious mistake of thinking that
joyousness and cheerfulness are only for the play hour and are not to
be made a part and factor of the time we must devote to toil. No view
could be more faulty and regrettable. It is in our working hours that
we should seek to be cheerful and sunshiny. All of our tasks should be
sweetened and glorified with the leaven of good humor.

    The task seems never very long
    If measured with a smile and song.

Listen while one faithful worker, Emory Belle, tells us how she
carried the spirit of good cheer to her daily tasks and what came of
it:

"I started out to my work one morning, determined to try the power of
cheerful thinking (I had been moody long enough). I said to myself: 'I
have often observed that a happy state of mind has a wonderful effect
upon my physical make-up, so I will try its effect upon others, and
see if my right thinking can be brought to act upon them.' You see, I
was curious. As I walked along, more and more resolved on my purpose,
and persisting that I was happy, that the world was treating me well,
I was surprised to find myself lifted up, as it were; my carriage
became more erect, my step lighter, and I had the sensation of
treading on air. Unconsciously, I was smiling, for I caught myself in
the act once or twice. I looked into the faces of the women I passed
and there saw so much trouble and anxiety, discontent, even to
peevishness, that my heart went out to them, and I wished I could
impart to them a wee bit of the sunshine I felt pervading me.

"Arriving at the office, I greeted the book-keeper with some passing
remark, that for the life of me I could not have made under different
conditions, I am not naturally witty; it immediately put us on a
pleasant footing for the day; she had caught the reflection. The
president of the company I was employed by was a very busy man and
much worried over his affairs, and at some remark that he made about
my work I would ordinarily have felt quite hurt (being too sensitive
by nature and education); but this day I had determined nothing should
mar its brightness, so replied to him cheerfully. His brow cleared,
and there was another pleasant footing established, and so throughout
the day I went, allowing no cloud to spoil its beauty for me or others
about me. At the kind home where I was staying the same course was
pursued, and, where before I had felt estrangement and want of
sympathy, I found congeniality and warm friendship. People will meet
you half-way if you will take the trouble to go that far.

"So, my sisters, if you think the world is not treating you kindly
don't delay a day, but say to yourselves: 'I am going to keep young in
spite of my gray hairs; even if things do not always come my way I am
going to live for others, and shed sunshine across the pathway of all
I meet.' You will find happiness springing up like flowers around you,
will never want for friends or companionship, and above all the peace
of God will rest upon your soul."

And all of this was brought about by a change in the attitude of the
mind and a determination to look upon the sunshiny, rather than the
dark, side of life. We can all do as much. It is for us to say whether
we will be happy and make others happy, or whether we shall be
distressed and thereby distress others.

