Produced by K. Nordquist, Ross Wilburn and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


MISSION FURNITURE

HOW TO MAKE IT

PART I


POPULAR MECHANICS HANDBOOKS


CHICAGO


POPULAR MECHANICS CO.


Copyrighted, 1909,
by H.H. WINDSOR


This book is one of the series of Handbooks on industrial subjects being
published by the Popular Mechanics Company.

Like Popular Mechanics Magazine, and like the other books in this
series, it is "written so you can understand it."

The purpose of Popular Mechanics Handbooks is to supply a growing demand
for high-class, up-to-date and accurate text-books, suitable for home
study as well as for class use, on all mechanical subjects.

The text and illustrations, in each instance, have been prepared
expressly for this series by well known experts, and revised by the
editor of Popular Mechanics.


Thus, agricultural prosperity, while manufacturing takes place in
secondary cities and towns, without the habits of workers, the
balance of industries, or the regularity of wages suffer dangerous,
as in other countries .

Flemish farmer's life is sweet and quiet, as soon as its work force
and the harsh climate in winter.

Always busy with some work, their work will vary with the seasons.

Thus, during the months to own the farm work, any embodiment of the
Flemish peasant is land, and when winter does suspend or terminate
those activities, the household becomes homeless in a small factory,
or at least an auxiliary production.

Each farmer was then occupied in the preparations that require flax,
hemp, hops, etc.

For use in factories, or in the house of the farmer produced yarn,
lace, some tissues, and other industrial products cabullas .

Nothing is more necessary for morality and welfare of the working
classes in countries where the seasons change diverse climates, the
coexistence of agriculture and industry, common benefit, which
allows use of the time in every month of the year. bruges á
Franco-Belgian border, a journey of nearly three hours, the five
localities in touch via more or less important than, as before I
said, are remarkable, like others in the region Flanders, for its
production manufacturing.

_Thourout_ Is the first town in the way you play, not without grace
and a beautiful church, then reach _Roulers_ (in Flemish _Rosselaere_),
noted for its market for flax and hemp fabrics, the Gothic church
of _San Miguel_ whose beautiful tower dominates the city from a
hill, and on his field in 1794 of a bloody battle between the
Austrian and French Republicans, under the orders of these two
famous general and Pichegru Macdonald.

A few minutes later, the road passes through _Iseghem_ except _Lys_
and small river enters the town of considerable _Courtrai_ (or
_Kortryk_).

It is curious to note that Belgium is precisely in its two extremities,
from east to west, two cities essentially manufacturing, which are
the preludes of the great Activity on the Belgian manufacturing.

If Verviers is at the eastern end or the side of Germany, the world's
leading manufacturer of woven cloth or wool, _Courtrai_ what is in
the far west, or north side of France, on linen cloth.

There are higher tissue damasks own thread to service bureau, the
manufacture of lace and deserves a lot of estimation.

Is sensitive to the American peoples, who make considerable use of
such articles of linen, have failed to establish direct relations
with Belgium, they would be very advantageous.

Such a country, free, honest, very powerful, and whose manufacture
is so varied as cheap and of excellent quality, is that most can
agree to trade in the Spanish-Colombian republic.

Courtrai is known for the famous battle of _las Espuelas_, won by
Flemish citizens in 1302, against the French and the city is not
without some value for its ancient monuments and its modern gothic
public.

A half hour of Courtrai, _Mouscron_ had to stop at small town of
about 7,000 people, where is the office.

Needed passports to enter and pass under the scrutinizing eyes of
customs officers and men of the police.

  
  The
materials can be secured from the planing mill dressed and sandpapered
ready to cut the tenons and mortises. The material list can be made up
from the dimensions given in the detail drawing. The front legs or
posts, as well as the back ones, are made from 1-3/4-in. square stock,
the back ones having a slope of 2 in. from the seat to the top. All the
slats are made from 7/8-in. material and of such widths as are shown in
the detail. The three upright slats in the back are 3/4-in. material.
The detail drawing shows the side and back, the front being the same as
the back from the seat down. All joints are mortised in the posts, as
shown. The joints, however, can be made with dowels if desired. If
making dowel joints they must be clamped very tight when glued and put
together. The seat can be made from one piece of 7/8-in. material,
fitted with notches around the posts. This is then upholstered with
leather without using springs. Leather must be selected as to color to
suit the kind of wood used in making the chair. The seat can also be
made with an open center for a cane bottom by making a square of four
pieces of 7/8-in. material about 4 in. wide. These pieces are fitted
neatly to the proper size and dowelled firmly together. After the cane
is put in the opening the cane is covered over and upholstered with
leather in the same manner as with a solid bottom.


HOW TO MAKE A LAMP STAND AND SHADE


A library light stand of pleasing design and easy construction is made
as follows: Square up a piece of white oak so that it shall have a width
and thickness of 1-3/4 in. with a length of 13 in. Square up two pieces
of the same kind of material to the same width and thickness, but with a
length of 12 in. each. The Liberals, in a spirit of national independence,
rejected the language that reminds the Dutch domination of fifteen
years, while the Flemish or conservatives, encouraged the same
spirit, they reject the French language as a symbol of domination
imposed on the country from France late nineteenth century until
1814.

I do not know if the Flemish language has strong elements of vitality,
and if he can help rebuild a respectable original literature and in
modern times. But it seems clear that the French tend to absorb all the
intellectuals of the Belgian people, and gaining ground day by
day, and I also believe that the Flemish have had the generous
desire to reconstitute the literature itself has taken the worst
possible way , thereby compromising the success of his company,
whose head was talented writers such as Henri Conscience, Renier,
Snieders, Dautzenberg, Van Duyse and others are not without value.

These writers, instead of using their language to defend freedom and
progress, have despopularizado, making it an instrument of reactionary,
against the current century. Thus their work was twofold, as had also
resurrect the corpse of _derecho divino_ (or ultramontanismo) and
the quasi-body of the very modest Flemish literature.

It is curious to note that newspapers and books are published in Flemish
language are, with rare exceptions, for backward trends.
These parts may be put together and fastened to the upright by means of
two long screws from the under side, placed to either side of the
1/2-in. hole. This hole must be continued through the pieces forming the
base.

The braces are easiest made by taking the two pieces which were planed
to 1-1/8 in. thick and 3 in. square and drawing a diagonal on each. Find
the middle of this diagonal by drawing the central portion of the other
diagonal; at this point place the spur of the bit and bore a 1-in. hole
in each block.

Saw the two blocks apart, sawing along a diagonal of each. Plane the
surfaces on the saw cut smooth and sandpaper the curve made by the bit.
Fasten the braces in place by means of roundhead blued screws.

To make a shade such as is shown in the illustration is rather
difficult. The shade is made of wood glued up and has art glass fitted
in rabbets cut on the inner edges. Such shades can be purchased ready to
attach. Today, the strange story of the tower is not interesting but
because it does evoke tradition, since freedom is no longer a privilege
or _fuero_ city folk to become law, the irrevocable and fundamental
political and social order.[Illustration: Construction of Shade]

The kind of wood finish for the stand will depend upon the finish on the
wooden shade, if shade is purchased. . * * * * * I shall not dwell on the
interesting details in respect of civil and religious monuments of
Ghent or its institutes and establishments of various kinds, it
would require a thorough exposure to many pages, on my part, would
necessarily be very weak. Just mention the most interesting, noting
that several objects deserve particular attention.

In class civil monuments are worthy of interest for several reasons
_Municipal the palaces of Justicia_ and the _Universidad_ and _Casa
of reclusion_, that gender is Europe a magnificent model.

The vast palace of the city (_Hôtel-de-Ville_) is one of the most
beautiful monuments of its kind in Belgium and northern Europe.
If the parts are to be riveted, enough
additional metal must be left on the last panel to allow for a lap. No
lap is needed when joints are soldered.

A better way, and one which will permit the use of heavier metal, is to
cut each side of the shade separately and fasten them together by
riveting a piece of metal over each joint. The shape of this piece can
be made so as to accentuate the rivet heads and thus give a pleasing
effect.

How many inspirations for the poet, philosopher and artist within the
loneliness that overt, that hides so many millions and millions of people
and is the greatest symbol of the omnipotence of God and the divine
harmony of creation!

[Illustration: Details of Home-Made Porch Seat]


HOW TO MAKE A PORCH CHAIR


The illustration shows a very comfortable and attractive porch chair
that can be made with few tools and easily procured material. The Botanical
Gardens, very happily situated in a mixed area of four and half hectares,
at the foot of a _boulevard_ has the advantage that the whole world can
admire from the camellon funny that the whole temple of Flora.If the natural color of the wood is not
desired, the wood may first be stained, the filler being colored
somewhat darker than the stain.

