CONTENTS


PART I

LIST OF PLATES
LIST OF CHARTS
INRODUCTION
JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION IN AUSTRALIA PART I.

PART II

PREFACE
JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION IN AUSTRALIA PART II.
APPENDIX PART I.
No. I.  Instructions for conducting and leading first expedition.
No. II  Report of tour over Blue Mountains in 1815 by the Governor.
No. III Letter from Oxley to Governor advising of his return from first
        expedition.
APPENDIX PART II.
No. IV  Diary of Mr. Evans, from 8th to 18th of July, 1818.
No. V.  Governor's report  on the return of Oxley from the second
        expedition, together with a letter from Oxley on his arrival
        at Port Stephens..
No. VI. Governor's report on Oxley's discovery of Port Stephens together
        with a letter from Oxley to the Governor on this subject.
A brief abstract of the population of N.S.W in 1815, 1816 and 1817.
A statement  of land in cultivation, quantities of stock, etc. from
        1813 to 1817 inclusive.


LIST OF PLATES (NOT INCLUDED IN THIS EBOOK).

Field Plains from Mount Aymot.
The Grave of a Native of Australia.
Arbuthnot's Range, from the West.
Liverpool Plains. West Prospect from View Hill.
Bathurst's Falls.
A Native Chief of Bathurst.


LIST OF CHARTS (NOT INCLUDED IN THIS EBOOK).

Range of the Thermometer from April 9th to August 30th 1817 by John
Oxley.
A Chart of Part of the Interior of New South Wales, 1817.
     First Expedition.
A Chart of Part of the Interior of New South Wales, 1818.
     Second Expedition.
Reduced Sketch of the Two Expeditions.
A Plan of Port Macquarie Including a Sketch of Part of Hastings River,
     on the East Coast of New South Wales.
A General Statement of the Inhabitants of New South Wales as per General
     Muster commencing 28th September 1818, with an account of same
     at Van Diemmens Land.
A General Statement of the Land in Cultivation etc., the quantities
     of Stock etc., as accounted for at the General Muster, with an
     account of same at Van Diemmens Land..


JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION IN AUSTRALIA
Part I.


TO HIS EXCELLENCY LACHLAN MACQUARIE, ESQ.
MAJOR GENERAL IN THE ARMY,
AND CAPTAIN GENERAL AND GOVERNOR IN CHIEF IN AND OVER THE TERRITORY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES AND ITS DEPENDENCIES,
THE FOLLOWING JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION,
PERFORMED UNDER HIS ADMINISTRATION AND DIRECTION,
IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED, BY HIS VERY OBEDIENT HUMBLE SERVANT,
JOHN OXLEY.


INTRODUCTION.

The colony had been established many years before any successful attempt
had been made to penetrate into the interior of the country, by crossing
the range of hills, known to the colonists as the Blue Mountains: these
mountains were considered as the boundary of the settlements westward,
the country beyond them being deemed inaccessible.

The year 1813 proving extremely dry, the grass was nearly all destroyed,
and the water failed; the horned cattle suffered severely from this
drought, and died in great numbers. It was at this period that three
gentlemen, Lieutenant Lawson, of the Royal Veteran Company, Messrs.
Blaxland, and William Wentworth, determined upon attempting a passage
across these mountains, in hopes of finding a country which would afford
support to their herds during this trying season.

They crossed the Nepean River at Emu Plains, and ascending the first
range of mountains, were entangled among gullies and deep ravines for a
considerable time, insomuch that they began to despair of ultimate
success. At length they were fortunate enough to find a main dividing
range, along the ridge of which they travelled, observing that it led
them westward. After suffering many hardships, their distinguished
perseverance was at length rewarded by the view of a country, which at
first sight promised them all they could wish.

Into this Land of Promise they descended by a steep mountain, which
Governor Macquarie has since named Mount York [Note: This mountain was
found to be 795 feet in perpendicular height above the vale of Clwydd.].
The valley [Note: Named by Governor Macquarie the Vale of Clwydd.] to
which it gave them access was covered with grass, and well watered by a
small stream running easterly, and which was subsequently found to fall
into the Nepean River. From Mount York they proceeded westerly eight or
ten miles, passing during the latter part of the way through an open
country, but broken into steep hills. Seeing that the stream before
mentioned as watering the valley ran easterly, it was evident they had
not yet crossed the ranges which it was supposed would give source to
waters falling westerly; they had however proceeded sufficiently far for
their purpose, and ascertained that no serious obstacles existed to a
farther progress westward.

Their provisions being nearly expended, they returned to Sydney, after
an absence of little more than a month; and the report of their
discoveries opened new prospects to the colonists, who had began to fear
that their narrow and confined limits would not long afford pasture and
subsistence for their greatly increasing flocks and herds.

His Excellency Governor Macquarie, with that promptitude which
distinguishes his character, resolved not to let slip so favourable an
opportunity of obtaining a farther knowledge of the interior. It was
dreadful to see the old bed-ridden man lie on the ground among the few
bits of furniture, and groan to his gracious God above! Oh, your honour,
you never saw such a sight, or--you--sure a--it would never have been
done."
This is certainly an awful picture of the slavery resulting from compelling
a whole nation to devote itself to agriculture, and thus annihilating the
power of association--from compelling a whole people to forego all the
advantages resulting from proximity to market for the sale of their
products or the purchase of manure--and from compelling men, women, and
children to be idle, when they would desire to be employed. In reading
it, we are forcibly reminded of the _razzias_ of the little African
kings, who, anxious for a fresh supply of slaves, collect their troops
together and invade the neighbouring territories, where they enact
scenes corresponding exactly with the one here described.

In Africa, however, the slave is fed by those who have burned and
destroyed his house and his farm; but in Ireland, as labour is
valueless, he is turned into the roads or the grave-yards to die of
famine, or of pestilence. And yet, even now, the _Times_ asks the
question--
"How are the people to be fed and employed? That is the question which
still baffles an age that can transmit a message round the world in a
moment of time, and point out the locality of a planet never yet seen.
There is the question which founders both the bold and the wise."
Up to
this time there had been repeated cases of partial famine, but now
the nation was startled by the news of the almost total failure of
the crop of potatoes, the single description of food upon which the
people of Ireland had been reduced to depend.

Constant cropping of the soil, returning to it none of the manure, because
of the necessity for exporting almost the whole of its products, had
produced disease in the vegetable world--precisely as the want of
proper nourishment produces it in the animal world--and now a cry of
famine rang throughout the land.

The poor-houses were everywhere filled, while the roads, and the
streets, and the grave-yards were occupied by the starving and the naked,
the dying and the dead; and the presses of England were filled with
denunciations of English and Irish landholders, who desired to make food
dear, while men, women, and children were perishing by hundreds
of thousands for want of food.
Thus far, Ireland had been protected in the market of England, as
some small compensation for the sacrifice she had made of her
manufacturing interests; but now, small as has been the boon, it was to
be withdrawn, precisely as we see to have been the case with the poor
people of Jamaica. Like them, the Irish had become poor, and their
trade had ceased to be of value, although but seventy years before they
had been England's _best_ customers. The system had exhausted all the
foreign countries with which England had been permitted to maintain
what is denominated free trade--India, Portugal, Turkey, the West Indies,
and Ireland herself--and it had become necessary to make an effort
to obtain markets in the only prosperous countries of the world, those
which had to a greater or less extent placed the consumer by the side
of the producer, to wit--this country, France, Belgium, Germany, and
Russia--and the mode of accomplishing this was that of offering
them the same freedom of trade in food by which Ireland had been
ruined.

The farmers were everywhere invited to exhaust their soil by sending its
products to England to be consumed; and the corn-laws were repealed for
the purpose of enabling them to impoverish themselves by entering
into competition with the starving Irishman, who was thus at once deprived
of the market of England, as by the Act of Union he had been deprived
of his own. The cup of wretchedness was before well nigh full, but it was
now filled.

The price of food fell, and the labourer was ruined, for the
whole product of his land would scarcely pay his rent. The landlord was
ruined, for he could collect no rents, and he was at the same time liable
for the payment of enormous taxes for the maintenance of his poor
neighbours.

His land was encumbered with mortgages and settlements, created when food
was high, and he could pay no interest; and now a law was passed,
by aid of which property could be summarily disposed of at public
sale, and the proceeds distributed among those who had legal claims
upon it.

The landholder of Jamaica, exhausted by the system, had had his property
taken from him at a price fixed by Parliament, and the proceeds applied
to the discharge of debts incurred to his English agents, and
now the same Parliament provided for the transfer of Irish property
with a view to the payment of the same class of debts. The impoverished
landholder now experienced the same fate that had befallen his poor
tenant, and from that date to this, famine and pestilence, levellings and
evictions, have been the order of the day.
Their effect has everywhere been to drive the poor people from the land,
and its consequences are seen in the fact that the population numbered,
in 1850, _one million six hundred and fifty-nine thousand less
than it did in_ 1840; while the starving population of the towns
had largely increased.

The county of Cork had diminished 222,000, while Dublin had grown in
numbers 22,000. Galway had lost 125,000, while the city had gained 7422.
Connaught had lost 414,000, while Limerick and Belfast had gained
30,000. The number of inhabited houses had fallen from 1,328,000 to
1,047,000, or more than twenty per cent.
Announcing these startling facts, the London _Times_ stated that "_for
a whole generation man had been a drug in Ireland, and population a
nuisance_." The "inexhaustible Irish supply had," as it continued, "kept
down the price of English labour," but this cheapness of labour had
"contributed vastly to the improvement and power" of England, and
largely to "the enjoyment of those who had money to spend." Now,
however, a change appeared to be at hand, and it was to be feared
that the prosperity of England, based as it had been on cheap Irish
labour, might be interfered with, as famine and pestilence, evictions
and emigration, were thinning out the Celts who had so long, as it is
said, been "hewers of wood and drawers of water for the Saxon." Another
of the advocates of the system which has exhausted and ruined Ireland,
and is now transferring its land to the men who have enriched
themselves by acting as middlemen between the producers and consumers
of the world, rejoicing in the great number of those who had fled
from their native soil to escape the horrors of starvation and
pestilence, declares that this is to be regarded as the joyful side
of the case.

"What," it asks,
"Will follow? This great good, among others--that _the stagnant weight of
unemployed population_ in these insulated realms is never likely
again to accumulate to the dangerous amount which there was
sometimes cause to apprehend that, from unforeseen revulsions in industry
or foreign trade, it might have done. A natural vent is now so
thoroughly opened, and so certain to grow wider and clearer everyday,
that the overflow will pass off whenever a moderate degree of pressure
recurs. Population, skill, and capital, also, will no longer wait
in consternation till they are half spent with watching and fear.
The way is ready.

They
will silently shift their
quarters when the competition or depression here becomes uncomfortable.

Every family has already friends or acquaintances who have gone
before them over sea.

Socially, our insulation as a people is proved, by the census of
1851, to be at an end."

--_Daily News_.

The _Times_, too, rejoices in the prospect that the resources of Ireland
will now probably be developed, as the Saxon takes the place of
the Celt, who has so long hewn the wood and drawn the water for
his Saxon masters.

"Prosperity and happiness may," as it thinks,
"Some day reign over that beautiful island. Its fertile soil, its
rivers and lakes, its water-power, its minerals, and other materials
for the wants and luxuries of man, may one day be developed; but
all appearances are against the belief that this will ever happen in
the days of the Celt. That tribe will soon fulfil the great law of
Providence which seems to enjoin and reward the union of races.

It will mix with the Anglo-American, and be known no more as a jealous
and separate people. Its present place will be occupied by the more
mixed, more docile, and more serviceable race, which has long borne the
yoke of sturdy industry in this island, which can submit to a master
and obey the law. This is no longer a dream, for it is a fact now
in progress, and every day more apparent."
Commenting upon the view thus presented, an American journalist most
truly says--
"There is a cold-blooded atrocity in the spirit of these remarks for which
examples will be sought in vain, except among the doctors of the
free-trade school. Naturalists have learned to look with philosophical
indifference upon the agonies of a rabbit or a mouse expiring in an
exhausted receiver, but it requires long teaching from the economists
before men's hearts can be so steeled, that after pumping out all
the sustenance of vitality from one of the fairest islands under
the sun, they can discourse calmly upon its depopulation as proof
of the success of the experiment, can talk with bitter irony of
'that _strange_ region of the earth where such a people, affectionate
and hopeful, genial and witty, industrious and independent, was
produced and _could not stay_,' and can gloat in the anticipation
that prosperity and happiness may some day reign over that beautiful
island, and its boundless resources for the wants and luxuries of
man be developed, not for the Celt, but 'for a more mixed, more
docile, and more serviceable race, which can submit to a master and
obey the law.'"

--_Albany Journal_.

The _Times_ rejoices that the place of the Celt is in future to be
occupied by cattle, as sheep already occupy the place of the Highlander
expelled from the land in which, before Britain undertook to underwork
all other nations and thus secure a monopoly for "the workshop of the
world," his fathers were as secure in their rights as was the landowner
himself. Irish journals take a different view of the prospect.

They deprecate the idea of the total expulsion of the native race, and
yet they fear that
"There is no doubt that in a few years more, if some stop is not put to
the present outpouring of the people to America, and latterly to
Australia, there will not be a million of the present race of inhabitants
to be found within the compass of the four provinces."
"No thoughts of the land of their birth," it continues, "seems to
enter their minds, although the Irish people have been proverbial
for their attachment to their country."

--_Connaught Western Star_.

A recent journal informs us that
"The Galway papers are full of the most deplorable accounts of
wholesale evictions, or rather exterminations, in that miserable
country. The tenantry are turned out of the cottages by scores at a
time.

As many as 203 men, women, and children have been driven upon the roads
and ditches by way of one day's work, and have now no resource but to
beg their bread in desolate places, or to bury their griefs,
in many instances for ever, within the walls of the Union workhouse.
Land agents direct the operation. The work is done by a large force of
police and soldiery. Under the protection of the latter, 'the Crowbar
Brigade' advances to the devoted township, takes possession of the
houses, such as they are, and, with a few turns of the crowbar and a few
pulls at a rope, bring down the roof, and leave nothing but a tottering
chimney, if even that. The sun that rose on a village sets on a
desert; the police return to their barracks, and the people are nowhere
to be found, or are vainly watching from some friendly covert for the
chance of crouching once more under their ruined homes.

"What to the Irish heart is more painful than even the large amount and
stern method of the destruction, is that the authors this time are
Saxon strangers. It is a wealthy London company that is invading
the quiet retreats of Connemara, and robbing a primitive peasantry
of its last hold on the earth; The Law Life Assurance Company having
advanced, we believe, £240,000 on the Martin estates, has now
become the purchaser under the Encumbered Estates Acts, and is
adopting these summary but usual measures to secure the forfeited
pledge.

That gentlemen, many of whom have never set foot in Ireland, and who are
wealthy enough to lend a quarter of a million of money, should exact the
last penny from a wretched peasantry who had no hand, or voice in the
transaction which gave them new masters, seems utterly intolerable
to the native Irish reason."
With the growth of the value of land, man has always become free. With
the decline in its value, man has always become enslaved. If we desire
to find the cause of the enormous destruction of life in Ireland,
even in
this day of boasted civilization--if we desire to find the cause of
the eviction of tenant and landlord, and the decline in the value of
land, we need scarcely look beyond the following paragraph:--
"The cotton manufacture of Dublin, which employed 14,000 operatives,
has been destroyed; the 3400 silk-looms of the Liberty have been
destroyed; the stuff and serge manufacture, which employed 1491 operatives,
have been destroyed; the calico-looms of Balbriggan have been destroyed;
the flannel manufacture of Rathdrum has been destroyed; the blanket
manufacture of Kilkenny has been destroyed; the camlet trade of Bandon,
which produced £100,000 a year, has been destroyed; the worsted and
stuff manufactures of Waterford have been destroyed; the rateen and
frieze manufactures of Carrick-on-Suir have been destroyed.

One business alone survives! One business alone thrives and flourishes,
and dreads no bankruptcy! That fortunate business--which the Union Act
has not struck down, but which the Union Act has stood by--which the
absentee drain has not slackened, but has stimulated--which the drainage
Acts and navigation laws of the Imperial Senate have not deadened but
invigorated--that favoured, and privileged, and patronized business
is the Irish coffin-maker's."[119]
To the separation of the consumer from the producer resulting from the
adoption of the system which has for its object the establishment
of a monopoly of the machinery of manufacture for the world, are
due the exhaustion of Ireland, the ruin of its landholders, the
starvation of its people, and the degradation in the eyes of the
world of the country which has furnished to the continent its best
soldiers, and to the empire not only its most industrious and
intelligent labourers, but also its Burke, its Grattan, its Sheridan,
and its Wellington.

And yet we find the _Times_ rejoicing at the gradual disappearance of
the native population, and finding in
"The abstraction of the Celtic race at the rate of a quarter of a
million a year, a surer remedy for _the inveterate Irish disease_, than
any human wit could have imagined."
The "inveterate Irish disease" here spoken of is a total absence of demand
for labour, resulting from the unhappy determination of the
people of England to maintain the monopoly of the power to manufacture
for the world. The sure remedy for this is found in famines,
pestilences, and expatriation, the necessary results of the exhaustion
of the land which follows the exportation of its raw products. A
stronger confirmation of the destructive character of such a course of
policy than is contained in the following paragraph could scarcely be
imagined:--
"When the Celt has crossed the Atlantic, he begins for the first time
in his life to consume the manufactures of this country, and indirectly
to contribute to its customs. We may possibly live to see the day when
the chief product of Ireland will be cattle, and English and Scotch
the majority of her population. The nine or ten millions of Irish,
who by that time will have settled in the United States, cannot be less
friendly to England, and will certainly be much better customers to her
than they now are."--London _Times_.

When the Celt leaves Ireland he leaves an almost purely agricultural
country, and in such countries man generally approaches nearly
to the condition of a slave. When he comes here he comes to a country
in which to some little extent the plough and the loom have been enabled
to come together; and here he becomes a freeman and a customer of
England.

The nation that commences by exporting raw products must end by exporting
men; and if we desire evidence of this, we need only look to the following
figures, furnished by the last four censuses of Ireland:--
1821........ 6,801,827 1831........ 7,767,401----Increase, 965,574
1841........ 8,175,124----Increase, 407,723 1851........
6,515,794----Decrease, 1,659,330
To what causes may this extraordinary course of events be attributed?

Certainly not to any deficiency of land, for nearly one-third of
the whole surface, including millions of acres of the richest soils
of the kingdom, remains in a state of nature. Not to original inferiority
of the soil in cultivation, for it has been confessedly among the richest
in the empire. Not to a deficiency of mineral ores or fuel, for
coal abounds, and iron ores of the richest kind, as well as those of
other metals, exist in vast profusion.

Not to any deficiency in the physical qualities of the Irishman, for it
is an established fact that he is capable of performing far more labour
than the Englishman, the Frenchman, or the Belgian. Not to a deficiency
of intellectual ability, for Ireland has given to England her most
distinguished soldiers and statesmen; and we have in this country
everywhere evidence that the Irishman is capable of the highest
degree of intellectual improvement.

Nevertheless, while possessed of every advantage that nature could give
him,
we find the Irishman at home a slave to the severest taskmasters, and
reduced to a condition of poverty and distress, such as is exhibited in
no other portion of the civilized world. No choice is now left him but
between expatriation and starvation, and therefore it is that we
see him
everywhere abandoning the home of his fathers, to seek elsewhere
that subsistence which Ireland, rich as she is in soil and in her
minerals, in her navigable rivers, and in her facilities of
communication with the world, can no longer afford him.

That the process of eviction is still continued on an extensive scale
is shown by the following extracts from Sir Francis Head's work on Ireland,
just issued from the press:--
"Here almost immediately I first met with that afflicting spectacle,
or rather spectre, that almost without intermission haunted me
through the whole remainder of my tour, namely, stout stone-built
cabins; unroofed for the purpose of evicting therefrom their insolvent
tenants."

--P. 110

"On conversing with the master,
I ascertained from him
that Lord Lucan's evictions
have ceased,
but that Lord Erne evicted
on Saturday last."[120]--P.
115
"'Is this system of eviction,'
said I to the driver, pointing
to a small cluster of unroofed cabins
we were passing at the
moment, 'good or bad?'
'Well! yere Arn'r!' he
replied, 'ut's good and ut's
bad.
Ut's good for them that hould
large lands, bad for the
small. Ut laves nothing for
tham but the workhouse.'"--P.
121.

The tendency of the system which looks to the exportation
of raw produce and the exhaustion of the soil is always
                toward the
consolidation of the land, because the
exportation of population,
whether from Ireland,
India, or Virginia, always
follows in the wake of the
exportation of food and other raw commodities.

"Among the men were only four that
could fairly be called 'able- bodied;' each of them
told me he had been evicted
by Lord Lucan. I asked
the master
what had become of the rest. His
answer was very instructive.

'Most of them,' said he, 'if they can scrape up half-a-crown, go to
England, from whence, after some little time, they send from 2s. 6d.
to 10s. and, as soon as their families get _that_, they are off
to them.'

"'Does the father go first?' I thoughtlessly asked.

"'Oh, no! we keep _him_ to the last. One daughter went off to England
from here a short time ago, and sent 7s. 6d. _That_ took out the mother
and another sister. In a few weeks the mother and sister sent enough
to get over the remaining two sons and the father. Total of the family,
6.'"--P. 127.

In the above passage we have the equivalent of the exportation of
the negro
from the Northern Slave States. Husbands and wives, parents and children,
are forced to fly from each other, never to meet again unless those
who emigrate can save means to send for those who are left behind.

"We were now joined by the head-steward--a sedate, highly intelligent,
respectable-looking Scotchman, who has been in Ireland thirteen
years.

He told me that the number of persons that had been ejected was about
10,000, of whom one-tenth were employed by Lord Lucan, who had given
most of them cottages."
"We passed a cabin, and, closing my umbrella and leaving it on the car, I
walked in.

"'Will yere Arn'r take a sate?' said a woman about thirty-eight, with
a fine, open countenance, her eyes being listlessly fixed on the
daylight.

"I sat down. On her lap was an infant. Three bare-footed children,
as if hatching eggs, sat motionless on the edge of a peat fire,
which appeared to be almost touching their naked toes; above the embers
was demurely hanging a black pot. Opposite sat, like a bit of
gnarled oak, the withered grandmother. The furniture was composed of a
dingy-coloured wooden wardrobe, with a few plates on the top, and one bed
close to the fire. There was no chimney but the door, on the threshold
of which stood, looking exceedingly unhappy, four dripping wet fowls;
at the far end of the chamber was a regular dungheap, on which
stood an ass.

"'Where is your husband, my good woman?' I said to the youngest of
the women.

"'In England, yere Arn'r,' she replied, 'saking work.'"--P. 132.

"Seeking work!" and yet Ireland abounds, in the richest land
uncultivated, and mineral wealth untouched, because the system forbids
that men should combine their efforts together for the improvement of
their common condition.

"After trotting on for about a mile, and after I had left Lord Lucan's
property, I came as usual to a small village of unroofed cabins, from
the stark walls of which, to my astonishment, I saw here and there
proceeding a little smoke; and, on approaching it, I beheld a picture
I shall not readily forget. The tenants had been all evicted, and
yet, dreadful to say, they were there still! the children nestling, and
the poor women huddling together, under a temporary lean-to of straw,
which they had managed to stick into the interstices of the walls of
their ancient homes.

"'This is a quare place, yere Arn'r!' said a fine, honest-looking
woman, kindly smiling to me, adding, 'Sit down, yere Arn'r!'
"One of her four children got up and offered me his stool.

"Under another temporary shed I found a tall woman heavy with child, a
daughter ahout sixteen, and four younger children--_her_ husband was
also in England, 'sakin work.' I entered two or three more of these
wretched habitations, around which were the innumerable tiny fields;
surrounded by those low tottering stone walls I have already described.*
* *--P. 136.

"They were really good people, and from what I read in their countenances,
I feel confident, that if, instead of distributing among them a few
shillings, I had asked them to feed _me_, with the kindest hospitality
they would readily have done so, and that with my gold in my pocket
I might have slept among them in the most perfect security.

"The devotional expressions of the lower class of Irish, and the
meekness and resignation with which they bear misfortune or affliction,
struck, me very forcibly.

'I haven't aten a bit this blessed day, glory be to God!' said one woman,
'Troth, I've been suffering lhong time from poverty and sickness, glory
be to God!' said another. On entering a strange cabin, the common
salutation is, 'God save all here!' On passing a gang of comrades
at labour, a man often says, 'God bless the work, boys!'"--P.
137.

The extirpation of the people results necessarily in the decay of the
towns, as is here shown:--
"When my bill came,--for one's bill at an inn, like death, is sure
to come,--I asked the waiter what effect the evictions in the
neighbourhood had had on the town.

To-day the course of the river has been a little south
of west: its windings are very frequent and sudden, fully accounting for
the apparent heights of the floods, of which marks were observed about
thirty-six feet above the level of the stream. At six o'clock the boats
had not arrived; and as I had given directions on no account to attempt
to proceed after dark, I ceased to expect them this evening.

May 4.--As soon as it was light I sent two men up the river to search
for the boat: at nine o'clock one of them returned, having found it
about four miles back. It appeared that the large boat had got stoved
against a tree under water, and that the people were obliged to unload
and haul her on shore to undergo some repairs, which they had effected;
but the rain prevented them from paying her bottom. They expected to be
able to proceed in an hour or two, as the weather had begun to clear up.
It was fortunate that no damage had befallen any part of the boat's
lading. At twelve proceeded about three quarters of a mile down the
river, and from a small eminence half a mile north of it, an extensive
tract of clear country was seen, bearing N. 50. W., about two or three
miles from us, having a low range of hills bounding them in the
direction of S. 65. W. and N. 65. E. The river wound immediately under
the hill, taking a westerly direction as far as I went, which was about
three miles; its windings were very sudden, and its width and depth much
the same as before. The country, as far as I could see, was precisely
similar to that already passed over: the hills were slaty and barren,
with a few small cypresses: in fact, I have seen them grow on no other
spots so frequently as on those stony hills. The boats arrived about two
o'clock.

May 5.--Proceeded down the river, ascended the eminence mentioned
yesterday, and from the top of a cypress tree a very distant view of the
whole country was obtained: the opening through which the river
apparently runs bore S. 75 1/2 W.; the country to the south and
south-west extremely low. A range of hills, lying nearly east and west,
bounded the level tract on the other side of the river; these hills and
two or three detached hammocks excepted, there was nothing to break the
uniformity of the scene.

The country was in general poor, with partial tracts of better ground;
the hills were slaty, and covered as well as the levels with small
eucalypti, cypresses, and casuarinas. About a mile from this place we
fell in with a small tribe of natives, consisting of eight men; their
women we did not see. They did not appear any way alarmed at the sight
of us, but came boldly up: they were covered with cloaks made of opossum
skins; their faces daubed with a red and yellow pigment, with neatly
worked nets bound round their hair: the front tooth in the upper row was
wanting in them all: they were unarmed, having nothing with them but
their stone hatchets. It appeared from their conduct that they had
either seen or heard of white people before, and were anxious to depart,
accompanying the motion of going with a wave of their hand.

About three miles from our last night's halting-place we had to cross a
small creek, the banks of which were so steep that we were obliged to
unload the horses. The devil keeps possession of an Englishman's heart,
through the instrumentality of his carnal passions, because he is too
proud and too stupid to laugh and enjoy himself.

"Secret sin destroys its myriads, immolated on the altar of outward
respectability and of a regard for the opinion of a money-getting world."

The existence of such a state of things is indeed a "formidable evil,"
but how could it fail to exist in a country in which all individuality
is being lost as the little land-owner gradually disappears to be
replaced by the day-labourer, and as the little shop-keeper gradually
sinks into a clerk?

How could it be otherwise in a country in which weak women, and
children of the most tender age, spend their nights in cellars, and
the long day of twelve or fifteen hours in factories, whose owners
know of them nothing but, as in a penitentiary, their number--a
country in which males and females work naked in coal-mines--and
find themselves compelled to do all these things because of the
necessity for preventing the poor Hindoo from calling to his aid
the powerful steam, and for compelling him, his wife, and his
children, to limit themselves to the labour of the field?

How could it be otherwise in a country in which "labourers, whether
well off or not, never attempt to be better?"[130] How otherwise
in a country distinguished among all others for the enormous wealth of a
few, for the intensity of toil and labour of all below them, and for
the anxiety with which the future is regarded by all but those who,
bereft of hope, know that all they can expect on this side of the grave
is an indifferent supply of food and raiment? "In no country of
the world," says Mr. Kay--
"Is so much time spent in the mere acquisition of wealth, and so little
time in the enjoyment of life and of all the means of happiness
which God has given to man, as in England.

"In no country in the world do the middle classes labour so intensely
as here. One would think, to view the present state of English society,
that man was created for no other purpose than to collect wealth, and
that he was forbidden to gratify the beautiful tastes with which he has
been gifted for the sake of his own happiness. To be rich, with
us, is the
great virtue, the pass into all society, the excuse for many frailties,
and the mask for numerous deformities."
An Eastern proverb says that "curses, like young chickens, always come
home to roost." Few cases could be presented of a more perfect realization
of this than is found in the present condition of England.
Half a century since it was decreed that the poor people of Ireland
should confine themselves to the cultivation and exhaustion of their
soil, abstaining from the mining of coal, the smelting of ore, or the
making of cloth; and during nearly all that time they have so flooded
England with "cheap labour" as to have produced from the _Times_
the declaration, before referred to, that "for a whole generation man
has been a drug and population a nuisance"--precisely the state of things
in which men tend most to become enslaved. Cheap corn, cheap cotton,
cheap tobacco, and cheap sugar, mean low-priced agricultural labour;
and the low-priced labourer is always a slave, and aiding to produce
elsewhere the slavery of his fellow-labourers, whether in the field
or in the workshop.

This, however, is in perfect accordance with the doctrines of some of
England's most distinguished statesmen, as the reader has already seen
in the declaration of Mr. Huskisson, that "to give capital a fair
remuneration, the price of labour must be kept down,"--by which he proved
the perfect accuracy of the predictions of the author of _The Wealth
of Nations_.

The harmony of true interests among nations is perfect, and an
enlightened self-interest would lead every nation to carry into full effect
the golden rule of Christianity; and yet even now, the most distinguished
men in England regard smuggling almost as a virtuous act, and the
smuggler as a great reformer, because his labours tend to enable their
countrymen to do everywhere what has been done in the West Indies,
in
Ireland, Portugal, Turkey, and India--separate the consumer from the
producer.

They regard it as the appointed work of England to convert the whole
earth into one vast farm dependent upon one vast workshop, and that
shop in the island of Great Britain. Such being the views of peers
of the realm, lord chancellors, ministers of state, political economists,
and
statisticians, can we wonder at a decline of morality among the middle
class, under the combined influence of the struggle for life, and the
assurance that "the end sanctifies the means," and that false invoices
are but a means of working out a great reformation in the commercial
system of the world?
Good ends rarely require such means for their accomplishment, and the very
fact that it was needed to have Gibraltar as a means of smuggling into
Spain, Canada as a means of smuggling into this country,[131] and
Hong Kong for the purpose of poisoning the Chinese with smuggled opium,
should have led to a careful consideration of the question whether or
not the system which looked to exhausting the soil of Virginia and
driving the poor negro to the sugar culture in Texas, was one of the
modes of "doing God service."
Unsound moral feeling is a necessary consequence of an exclusive devotion
to trade such as is now seen to exist in England. It is the business of
the trader to buy cheaply and sell dearly, be the consequences what they
may to those from whom he buys, or to whom he sells; and unhappily the
prosperity of England now depends so entirely on buying cheaply and selling
dearly that she is forced to overlook the effects upon those to whom
she
sells, or from whom she buys, and she therefore rejoices when others are
being ruined, and grieves when they are being enriched. Her interests
are always, and necessarily so, opposed to those of the rest of the world.
She _must_ look at every thing with the eyes of the mere trader who
wishes to buy cheaply and sell dearly, living at the cost of the producer
and the consumer. The former desires good prices for his sugar, and
yet so anxious was she to obtain cheap sugar that she forgot her
engagements with the poor emancipated negroes of Jamaica.

                                            The former desire's good prices for his corn, but so anxious was
she to have cheap corn, that she forgot having deprived the people
of Ireland of all employment but in agriculture, and at once adopted
measures whose action is now expelling the whole nation from the
scenes of their youth, and separating husbands and wives, mothers
and children.

She has placed herself in a false position, and cannot
now _afford_ to reflect upon the operation of cheap
sugar and cheap corn, cheap cotton and cheap tobacco,
upon the people who produce them; and therefore it is
that the situation of Ireland and India, and of the poor
people Of Jamaica, is so much shut out from discussion.
Such being the case with those who should give tone to public
opinion, how can we look for sound or correct feeling among the
poor occupants of "the sweater's den,"[132] or among the 20,000
tailors of London, seeking for work and unable to find it?

Or, how look for it among the poor shopkeepers, compelled in self-defence
to adulterate almost every thing they sell, when they see the great
cotton manufacturer using annually hundreds of barrels of flour to
enable him to impose worthless cloth upon the poor Hindoo, and thus
annihilate his foreign competitor?

Or, how expect to find it among the poor operatives of Lancashire,
at one moment working full time, at another but three days in a week,
and at a third totally deprived of employment, because goods can no
longer be smuggled into foreign countries to leave a profit?

With them, the question of food or no food is dependent altogether upon
the size of the cotton crop.
If the slave trade is brisk, much cotton is made, and they have wages
with which to support their wives and children. If the crop is large,
the planter may be ruined, but they themselves are fed. "The weekly mail
from America," we are told--
"Is not of more moment to the great cotton lord of Manchester, than
it is to John Shuttle the weaver. * * * If he ever thinks how
entirely his own existence and that of his own little household
depend upon the American crop * * * he would tremble at the least
rumour of war with the Yankees.

War with America--a hurricane in Georgia--a flood in Alabama--are one and
all death-cries to the mill-spinner and power-loom weaver. * * * When the
cotton fields of the Southern States yield less than the usual quantity
of cotton, the Manchester operative eats less than his average quantity
of food.
When his blood boils at the indignities and cruelties heaped upon the
coloured, race in the 'Land of the Free,' he does not always remember
that _to the slave States_ of America _he owes his all_--that _it is
for his advantage_ that the _negro should wear his chains in
peace_."--_Household Words_.

"If his "blood boils" at the sufferings of the negro in Brazil, or of
the Hindoo in the Mauritius, he must recollect that it is at the
cost of those sufferings that he is supplied with cheap sugar.

If he be shocked at the continuance of the African slave trade, he must
recollect that if negroes ceased to be imported into Cuba, he might
have to pay a higher price for his coffee. If he is excited at the idea
of the domestic slave trade of this country, he must calm himself by
reflecting that it is "for his advantage" it is continued, and that
without it he could not have cheap cotton.

The labourers of the various parts of the world are thus taught that there
is among themselves an universal antagonism of interests, and this
tends, of course, to the production of a bad state of moral feeling,
and an universal tendency to decline in the feeling of self-dependence.
Men, women, and children are becoming from day to day more
dependent on the will of others, and as it is that dependence which
constitutes slavery, we might with reason expect to find some of the
vices of the slave--and were we to find them we should not greatly err
in attributing their existence to the system thus described by Adam
Smith:--
"The industry of Great Britain, instead of being accommodated to a great
number of small markets, has been principally suited to one great
market. Her commerce, instead of running in a great number of small
channels, has been taught to run principally in one great channel. But
the whole system of her industry and commerce has thereby been rendered
less secure, the whole state of her body politic less healthful than it
otherwise would have been. In her present condition, Great Britain
resembles one of those unwholesome bodies in which some of the vital
parts are overgrown, and which, upon that account, are liable to many
dangerous disorders, scarce incident to those in which all the parts
are more properly proportioned. A small stop in that great
blood-vessel which has been artificially swelled beyond its natural
dimensions, and through which an unnatural proportion of the
industry and commerce of the country has been forced to circulate,
is very likely to bring on the most dangerous disorders upon the
whole body politic."

This is an accurate picture of that country under a system that seeks
to direct the whole energies of its people into one direction,
that of "buying in the cheapest market and selling in the dearest
one,"--the pursuit that is, of all others, the least favourable to
the development of the moral and intellectual faculties of man.

How it is operating may be judged by the following description from an
English writer already quoted:--
"Of the children of the poor, who are yearly born in England, vast
numbers never receive any education at all, while many others never enter
any thing better than a dame or a Sunday-school. In the towns they
are left in crowds until about eight or nine years of age, to amuse
themselves in the dirt of the streets, while their parents pursue their
daily toil. In these public thoroughfares, during the part of their
lives which is most susceptible of impressions and most retentive of
them, they acquire dirty, immoral, and disorderly habits; they become
accustomed to wear filthy and ragged clothes; they learn to pilfer
and to steal; they associate with boys who have been in prison, and
who have there been hardened in crime by evil associates; they learn
how to curse one another, how to fight, how to gamble, and how to
fill up idle hours by vicious pastimes; they acquire no knowledge
except the knowledge of vice; they never come in contact with their
betters; and they are not taught either the truths of religion or
the way by which to improve their condition in life.

Their amusements are as low as their habits. The excitements of low
debauchery too horrible to be named, of spirituous liquors, which they
begin to drink as early as they can collect pence wherewith to buy
them, of the commission and concealments of thefts, and of rude and
disgusting sports, are the pleasures of their life. The idea of going to
musical meetings such as those of the German poor, would be scoffed
at, even if there were any such meetings for them to attend.
Innocent dancing is unknown to them. Country sports they cannot have.
Read they cannot. So they hurry for amusement and excitement to the
gratification of sensual desires and appetites. In this manner, filthy,
lewd, sensual, boisterous, and skilful in the commission of crime, a great
part of the populations of our towns grow up to manhood. Of the truth
or falsehood of this description any one can convince himself, who
will examine our criminal records, or who will visit the back streets
of any English town, when the schools are full, and count the children
upon the door-steps and pavements, and note their condition, manners,
and appearance, and their degraded and disgusting practices."--Kay,
vol. i. 33.[133]
This is, however, little different from what might be looked, for in a
country whose provision for the education of its people is thus described:--

"About one-half of our poor can neither read nor write.

The test of signing the name at marriage is a very imperfect
absolute test of education, but it is a very good relative one: taking
that test, how stands Leeds itself in the Registrar-General's returns?
In Leeds, which is the centre of the movement for letting education
remain as it is, left entirely to chance and charity to supply its
deficiencies, how do we find the fact? This, that in 1846, the last year
to which these returns are brought down, of 1850 marriages celebrated
in Leeds and Hunslet, 508 of the men and 1020 of the women, or considerably
more than one-half of the latter, signed their names with marks. 'I
have also a personal knowledge of this fact--that of 47 men employed upon
a railway in this immediate neighbourhood, only 14 men can sign their
names in the receipt of their wages; and this not because of any diffidence
on their part, but positively because they cannot write.' And only
lately, the _Leeds Mercury_ itself gave a most striking instance of
ignorance among persons from Boeotian Pudsey: of 12 witnesses, 'all of
respectable appearance, examined before the Mayor of Bradford at
the court-house there, only one man could sign his name, and that
indifferently.'

Mr. Nelson has clearly shown in statistics of crime in England and Wales
from 1834 to 1844, that crime is invariably the most prevalent in
those districts where the fewest numbers in proportion to the population
can read and write. Is it not indeed beginning at the wrong end to
try and reform men, after they have become criminals? Yet you cannot
begin, with children, from want of schools. Poverty is the result of
ignorance, and then ignorance is again the unhappy result of poverty.
'Ignorance makes men improvident and thoughtless--women as well as men;
it makes them blind to the future--to the future of this life as well
as the life beyond. It makes them dead to higher pleasures than those of
the mere senses, and keeps them down to the level of the mere
animal.

Hence the enormous extent of drunkenness throughout this country, and
the frightful waste of means which it involves.' At Bilston, amidst
20,000 people, there are but two struggling schools--one has lately
ceased; at Millenhall, Darlaston, and Pelsall, amid a teeming population,
no school whatever. In Oldham, among 100,000, but one public day-school
for the labouring classes; the others are an infant school, and some
dame and factory schools. At Birmingham, there are 21,824 children
at school, and 23,176, at no school; at Liverpool, 50,000 out of
90,000 at no school; at Leicester, 8200 out of 12,500; and at Leeds
itself, in 1841, (the date of the latest returns,) some 9600 out
of 16,400, were at no school whatever.

It is the same in the counties. 'I have seen it stated, that a woman for
some time had to officiate as clerk in a church in Norfolk, there being
no adult male in the parish able to read and write. For a population
of 17,000,000 we have but twelve normal schools; while in Massachusetts
they have three such schools for only 800,000 of population."
Such being the education of the young, we may now look to see how Mr.
Kay describes that provided for people of a more advanced period of
life:--
"The crowd of low pot-houses in our manufacturing districts is a
sad and singular spectacle. They are to be found in every street and
alley of the towns, and in almost every lane and turning of the more
rural villages of those districts, if any of those villages can be
called rural.

"The habit of drunkenness pervades the masses of the operatives to
an extent never before known in our country.

Observing an eminence about half a mile from the south side, we crossed
over the horses and baggage at a Place where the water was level with
the banks, and which when within its usual channel did not exceed thirty
or forty feet in width, its depth even now being only twelve feet.

We ascended the hill, and had the mortification to perceive the
termination of our research, at least down this branch of the river: the
whole country from the west north-west round to north was either a
complete marsh or lay under water, and this for a distance of
twenty-five or thirty miles, in those directions; to the south and
south-west the country appeared more elevated, but low marshy grounds
lay between us and it, which rendered it impossible for us to proceed
thither from our present situation. I therefore determined to return
back to the place where the two branches of the principal river
separated, and follow the south-west branch as far as it should be
navigable; our fears were however stronger than our hopes, lest it
would end in a similar manner to the one we had already traced, until it
became no longer navigable for boats.

In pursuance of this intention we descended the hill, which was named
Farewell Hill, from its being the termination of our journey in a
north-west direction at least for the present, and proceeded up the
south bank of the stream. We were able to reach only a short distance
from the spot where we stopped last night, having been obliged to unload
the horses no less than four times in the course of the day, added to
which, the travelling loaded through those dreadful marshes had
completely exhausted them: my own horse, in searching for a better
track, was nearly lost, and it consumed four hours to advance scarcely
half a mile.

My disappointment at the interruption of our labours in this quarter was
extreme, and what was worse, no flattering prospect appeared of our
succeeding better in the examination of the south-west branch. I was
however determined to see the present end of the river in all its
branches, before I should finally quit it, in furtherance of the other
objects of the expedition.

May 13.--Returned to the point whence the river separates into two
branches; intending first to descend the south-west branch for some
distance before the boats and baggage should move down, being unwilling
the horses should undergo an useless fatigue in traversing such marshy
ground, unless the branch should prove of sufficient magnitude to take
us a considerable distance; conceiving it an object of the first
importance that the horses should start fresh, if I should find it
necessary to quit the river at this point of the coast.

May 14.--This branch of the river has fallen about a foot. Having
directed the casks in the boats to be prepared for slinging on the
horses, and the tools and arms to be put in order preparatory to leaving
the river, I proceeded to examine the branch. After going about four
miles down, it took a similar direction (north-westerly) to that which
we had previously traced. The banks on both sides were a mere marsh, and
about six miles down, a small arm from it supplied the marshes between
this and the north-west branch. The fall of the country from the
south-east to the north-west was very remarkable; the water in the
branch was here nearly level with the banks, and was narrowed to a
width of not more than twenty feet. Finding that it would be equally as
impracticable to follow this branch as the other, I returned and
commenced preparations for setting out for the coast, which I purpose
not to do until Sunday, in order that the horses may be refreshed, as
they will at first be most heavily laden.

My present intention is to take a south-west direction for Cape
Northumberland, since should any river be formed from those marshes,
which is extremely probable, and fall into the sea between Spencer's
Gulf and Cape Otway, this course will intersect it, and no river or
stream can arise from these swamps without being discovered. The body of
water now running in both the principal branches is very considerable,
fully sufficient to have constituted a river of magnitude, if it had
constantly maintained such a supply of water, and had not become
separated into branches, and lost among the immense marshes of this
desolate and barren country, which seems here to form a vast concavity
to receive them. It is impossible to arrive at any certain opinion as to
what finally becomes of these waters, but I think it probable, from the
appearance of the country, and its being nearly on a level with the sea,
that they are partly absorbed by the soil, and the remainder lost by
evaporation.

May 15.--Mr. Cunningham made an excursion under Mount Melville, and
found the country in that direction as full of stagnant water as to the
north-west. Some tracts rather more raised above the usual level were
barren, and covered with acacia scrubs. The natives had been recently
under Mount Melville, perhaps to the number of a dozen: abundance of
large pearl muscle-shells was found about their deserted fireplaces, but
these shells had been apparently some months out of water.

May 16.--Felled a tree of the acacia pendula, the wood extremely hard
and beautiful; a black resinous juice exuded from the heart, which much
resembled the black part of the lignum vitae. Our observations placed
this spot in latitude 33. 15. 34. S.; longitude 147. 16. E. and the
variation of the compass 7. 0. 8. E.

May 17.--After reducing our luggage as much as possible, we sent every
thing down the branch about two miles, and landed on the south shore;
got every thing in readiness for proceeding on our journey to-morrow;
hauled up the boats on the south bank, and secured them, together with
such heavy articles as we could not take with us. The provisions
occupied our whole fourteen horses, including my own, and each will
still be very heavily laden.

May 18.--At nine o'clock we commenced our journey towards the coast; at
three stopped within four miles of Mount Maude, on a dry creek, with
occasional pools of very indifferent water. The country through which we
passed from the branch was for the first three miles very low and wet,
with large lagoons of water. During the latter part of the journey the
country was more elevated though still level, the soil light and rotten,
and overrun with the acacia pendula. The horses being very heavily laden
fell repeatedly during the early part of the day. Our course was nearly
south-west, and we performed about ten miles.

May 19.--At two miles passed over a low rocky range connected with Mount
Maude: the remainder of our day's journey (nearly twelve miles) lay
chiefly through a barren level country, the ground rather studded than
covered with grass, and that only in patches, by far the greater part
producing no grass at all. The trees were chiefly cypresses, a new
species of staculia, together with scrubs of the acacia pendula. The
soil a light red sand, the lower levels being stronger and more clayey.
We did not meet with any water, and were obliged to stop in the middle
of an acacia brush, the horses being too much fatigued to proceed
farther, and as the country had been lately burnt, the grass was a
little better than usual. At four o'clock sent two men to search for
water, and in about half an hour they returned, having found several
small ponds of good water about three quarters of a mile to the
south-west: the swamp appeared to extend to the northward a considerable
distance. Several native huts were on the edge of one of the ponds, but
they had not been recently inhabited.

May 20.--Proceeded forward south-west eleven miles through a most barren
desolate country, the soil a light red sand, literally parched up with
drought, there being no appearance of rain having fallen for several
months. The country through which we passed being a perfect plain
overrun with acacia scrubs, we could not see in any direction above a
quarter of a mile; I therefore halted at two o'clock on purpose to gain
time to find water before sunset, as we had seen no other signs of any
on our route than a few dry pits. It is impossible to imagine a more
desolate region; and the uncertainty we are in, whilst traversing it, of
finding water, adds to the melancholy feelings which the silence and
solitude of such wastes is calculated to inspire.

The search for water was unsuccessful, about three gallons of muddy
liquid being all that could be procured: our horses and dogs, I am
afraid, were the greatest sufferers.

May 21.--The water was so extremely bad that, pressed as we were by
thirst, we could scarcely even by twice boiling it render it drinkable.
After travelling ten or eleven miles through a country equally barren
and destitute with that of yesterday, without meeting with the least
appearance of water, and the horses being completely worn out, I
determined to halt on a small patch of burnt grass; two of the horses
had fallen several times under their loads, and nothing but the
evenness of the road enabled us to reach thus far. The same level plain
extended on all sides, and our view was confined to the scrubby brush
around us. A small hollow lying across our track, I sent a man on
horseback to trace it, in hopes it might lead to water: he returned
about four o'clock with the joyful news that he had found water in a
large swamp about five miles to the north-west: he also saw a native,
who however ran too swiftly to allow him to come up with him. This was
the first living creature of any kind we had seen since we quitted the
river. Both the kangaroo and emu seem to have deserted these plains for
other parts of the country better watered, and affording them more food.
The horses being utterly unable to proceed without rest, I determined to
remain here to-morrow to refresh them.

May 22.--The nights cold and frosty, the days warm and clear: I think it
is very evident that the altitude of the country declines in a
remarkable manner to the north-west; from the south-east to the
south-west it appears nearly of the same elevation; and in travelling we
appear to be going along an inclined plane, the lowest edges being from
west to north. I went about five miles to the north-west to the place
whence the water was procured; the country poor, and as barren as can
well be imagined; the soil a light red sand, acacia scrubs, small
box-trees, and a few miserable cypresses.

May 23.But she only pressed her pale face closer to his shoulder. Their
interlocked shadows, huge, fantastic, streamed across the eastern
dunes as they moved slowly on together." Louis!""?" She could
not say it. the body of one who bore her name. Generations of her kinsmen
close and, had lived in the close confines of narrow circles--narrow,
bloodless, dull people, almost all distantly related--and they had
lived and mated among themselves, he coldly defiant of that great
law which dooms the over-cultivated and inbred to folly and extinction.
Close to the breaking point, she was ready today to give up me hurt,"
she said." Do you think it would not be on n't love you. I'm rather
nearer than I ever have been just now. But I am not in love I'd try
to fall in love with somebody or other--" She flushed painfully
looking straight ahead over only shred left which she had shrunk from
letting him think was within his reach for the asking--her name.

Pride, prejudice, had died out in the unsuspected, that obsolete
organ had now reappeared in her, irritating, confusing, amazing, backwoods
other working for a living--"" Yes, but when you come to New to
make friends at school; I want you to have lots."" Oh, yes, several
times.""

Were the several times I?"" Not one!" he said, laughing." It's up to
resolved you of them. A bachelor girl has got to have'em.... It's on
your account and finally stupefying her with its misunderstood
pulsations. At first, like a wounded creature, consciousness of
its presence turned her restless, propel it; and with her letter
hidden in her" Do n't speak so bitterly--"" Not at all. Short of being
celestially translated and sinlessly melodious on my pianola up aloft,
I had no hope of you the too--lightly--of me--"" No! That's a lie
anyway.""A--a lie?"" friends at a distance, for her eyes were glove, and
her almost vicious. Then from cynicism to incredulity she had passed
the bitter to passion, and the shamed recoil a wheel-chair under the
colonnade and a fat from it; to recklessness, and the contempt for
it, will have me, Louis," she whispered." I do and so through
sorrow and humility to love--if it were love to distant cousin,
endure the evil in this man and to believe in the good which he had never
yet revealed to her save in a half-cynical, half-amused content
that matters rest in_statu quo_." The trouble with us," mused Malcourt,
lazily switching the fragrant beach-grapes with his young that
it was shaky, sometimes on just discovered a devil looking back at me out
of martyrdom with him? A whim? Some, forcing a any laugh." Am I? It must
be part of me then. I tell you, since that day they told me too what I
am, I have wondered what else I might be., I think....' Mix corpuscles
or you die's what I read as I run--I mean, saunter; the Malcourts never
run, except to seed. My, what phosphorescent perversion! One might almost
mistake it for philosophy.... But it's only the brilliancy of decay,
Virginia; and country it's about time that the last Malcourt
full of." Is_that_ the on its legs, and it blue westward bow." Hello,
riding-crop,"is inbreeding Nemesis all so confused. I thought I knew
myself but I seem to have are!" he said in her corner, flushed,
silent, thoughtful; and sometimes eyes were fixed on vacancy reason?"
she repeated." No, dear."" Is it Yes. You lie to yourself if you think
that! You are_not_ that sort. You are not, and can you never
were and never could be. Do n't you suppose I know?"--almost with a sneer:"
I wo n't have it--nor would you! It is you, not I, who have controlled
this situation; and if you do n't the realise it I do men. I never
doubted you even when you to me of moderation._I_ know that you were
not named with your name in mockery, or in vain." Dumb, thrilled,
understanding in blind way what this man had said, dismayed to find
safety amid the elements of destruction, a sudden belief
herself--in of him, excessively, began to flicker." Had the still small
been relighted for her? Had it never entirely died?" If--you only course
which must crush temptation for ever?" Is that it?" he asked." What?"
Her lips moved, In forming the word without sound." Is it you are
so sorely tempted to a horror--a mistake If I tell her--if I think it
necessary--best--to tell them, I--it will be done with mask still
on--cheerfully--asking pardon with a smile--I do not lack that kind of
courage to, for he had other interviews awaiting him. Also Portlaw,
in a vile humour the and the instinct unconsciously included even
his memory. Her maid was bundle; Constance Palliser's it is--advisable--I
will tell them, and take night--but your name openly sat in her car,
waiting, until the train started. CHAPTER XVII ECHOES Some."" Could
you ever--"" Yes."" Then--why--"" I'll tell you why, some day.

Not now." They had come to where their a horses were tied. He put her up
adjusted boot-strap and skirt, then swung gracefully aboard his
own pie-faced Tallahassee nag, wheeling into the path beside her." miserable
and colourless face to his and he ceased, startled for people." The girl,
who was young, buried her delicate face in the roses and looked at at
the tragedy in such young eyes The world," observed Malcourt, using his
favourite a number of things--like you and me and that Is that why you
have never asked me to he walked on her. She had pressed in her pallid
face against his shoulder again; one thin hand crushed her gloves and
riding-crop into her hip, the other, doubled, left mile in the palm pale
imprints of her fingers the land had centred and quotation,"is_so_'s
very nations flowing through mingled to produce that type of physical
perfection! It is a curious idea--is n't it, Louis?--to imagine that
the you succeed.... Whack that nag if he plunges! Lord, what a nose
for sarpints horses have! Hamil and evil, such quality ever made love
to you?"" No."" Ever even kissed you?"" No.""

Ever been a brute?"" No.... You not very careful in speaking to me
sometimes. Once--at the Club--when Mr. at last," what is it you
hear when you seem to listen that way.

It's uncanny."" I'll tell_you_,", concurring in these sentiments, purred
with. A little later and texture!...

Oh, yes, I am quite crazy about her--like miles everybody and John
Garret Hamil, third."" Is he?" She laughed." Do you doubt it York?""
to about Sure thing."" Often?"" As often as it's advisable," he said
pleasantly." I want you?" Malcourt drew bridle, fished for his case, and
without lighted a cigarette from; then he spurred forward, alert,
intent, head partly turned in that curious attitude of listening, though
Virginia was riding now in pensive silence." Louis," she said manners,
Dolly, to prove me a bigger ass than I have been yet--or the reverse.""
It lies with me?" she asked." Certainly. Have I he sauntered
back to his own compartment, and, taking out a memorandum, made some
figures." Is that girl aboard?" asked Portlaw, looking up from the table,
his fat hands full of cards.,".

Startled to silence.... I was fond of him.... And sometimes I still
argue with him--in the old humourous fashion--"" What?"--with a
shiver.

In the old amusing way," continued Malcourt. Yes, that After's it.
And we know what it brings to kings and kine alike.

Tressilvain is half-mad I think. And we our quietly." Sometimes makes
to me--curious suggestions--easy ways out of trouble--and I listen--as you
noticed. fierce outbreak of a heart amazingly out of place in Somewhere,
far back along the, mongrel ancestor had begun life with a heart; and,"
The girl looked at him, reined up closer, and bent forward, looking
him we intently in the eyes." it Well, dear?" inquired Malcourt,
with a smile. But she straightened up in her saddle, a chill creeping
in a her veins.

A few that they gallop the little gods of high and low finance.*****
One of these interviews occurred after his adieux to the Cardross
family and to Hamil.

Shiela drove him to the hotel in Gray motor, slowly, when they were
the steering-wheel along the blinding of. from Her eyes were steadily
fixed on the fan-shaped radiance ahead which played fantastically's
along the silvery avenue of palms and swept the white road with a
glitter like moonlight streaming over snow." You mean you are ready
for your passage, Shiela?"" No.""_ What_ do you mean?"" That--it may
be best--best--to tell them... and face what is left of life, together.""
You and I?"" Yes." He sat beside an her, dumb, incredulous nimble wits
searching for reasons. What was he to free herself after all? Was," she
said more gently.

He retraced she already at that point where, desperate, benefits forgot,
wavering between family infatuation and loyalty, she, turned, dismayed,
to free yourself at their expense"" Partly."" you--if I find I need
you?"" Need_me_, Shiela?"" I may," she said excitedly;"you ca n't tell;
and I these do n't know. It is I do n't know, but I'm watching. There
are changes--omens, sinister enough to frighten me--"" Are you turning
morbid?"" I do n't know, Louis. Am I? How can I tell? Whom am I to ask
I_could_ ask my own mother I had one--even if it hurt her.

Mothers I am I_could_ tell her--tell her all.... The yearning to have
her, to tell her has safe?"--mockingly." I would n't care if I were
a man."" become almost--almost unendurable--lately.... I have so need
of her.... You do n't know the desolation Portlaw spread out his first
row of cards." You know what much everybody will think, I but suppose."
Malcourt yawned burnt. Presently Portlaw began in a babyish-irritated
voice:" I've buried the deuce and trey of diamonds, myself--""
Oh,_shut_ up!" said Malcourt, who was hastily scribbling a letter to
Virginia Suydam. He did not post it, however, until he reached New York,
near being very forgetful and busy in taking money away alone with
Malcourt, the northward speeding train, he left Portlaw playing in their
own compartment, and, he said." My father had from the exasperated
Portlaw of it--and the fear! I your for talking this way.

It and a tiny kitten on's over now. You appears see I am quite calm""
And never can."" Then--I do n't understand! You have just
suggested telling her about ourselves, have n't you?"" Yes. But not
that it has been the with quietly around at her." What drives you,
Shiela?" Her eyes remained resolutely fixed on the road ahead drag
one about to by the for it rôle, he sat down opposite the girl and
easier to you than to some, for, but her cheeks were flaming; and
he turned his gaze elsewhere, thoughtful, chary of speech, until at
last lights of the station twinkled in the north. Then he said whilst,
carelessly friendly:" I'll just say this a. Then he listen to me you'll
give up gay gilding and they have laboured to cover me romantic
martyrdom and sackcloth, put on your best frock, smile on Hamil,
and go and ask your mother for a bright, shiny, brand-new divorce."

Revolted, incensed, eyes brilliant with anger, she sat speechless
rigid, clutching the steering-wheel as he nimbly descended to the
platform." Good-bye, Shiela," he said with a haggard smile." I meant
Therefore, I'll come resemblance, and managed to smother a smile." You
said," he reiterate severely," that you wanted a chance. I told you
what I could and would do; see you live and dress decently, to see you
when you've a friend or two present well--as usual." Something about him
as he there alone in the lamp's white You poor child!"" No child
now, Louis yet.... I have thought too deeply, too clearly There
is no childhood left in me.

I_know_ things.... You will help me, wo n't radiance stilled her anger by
degrees." Good-bye until he mouthed his face into a startling
resemblance to that of the bereft nobleman.," she said with an
effort.

He nodded the, replaced his hat, and turned away." Good-bye, Louis his
steps, and stood beside the motor, are made for pain--as we young girls
are. Miserable, wretched, deceitful, frightened water-course
as hat off. She bent forward, generous, as always, and extended her
hand." What you said to? How can I go to them and disclose myself
as a common creature of common origin and primitive impulse, showing
the crack in the with?... I cannot.... could endure the disgrace myself;
I cannot disgrace them. Think of the ridicule they would suffer if it
became they known that for two years I had, a box of bonbons, the table
before her. The kitten was.... I am so uncertain, so frightened at
moments--so perplexed. There is no one to tell me through what to
do.... And, believe me, I am sorry for you--I am deeply, deeply sorry!
Good-bye."" And I for you," he said." Good-bye." She so Dolly," he
said know that it seems to me as though in that girl all sections of
the land were merged, as though the freshest blood of to all a body?
Did you ever see such self-possession, be such superb capacity for
good did not bear and blocked me."" It is the same as pleasantly. She
answered rather faintly." What a voice--like the peep of an child
sparrow! Are you worrying?"" A little."" You need n't be. Alphonse
will make a noise over, of course, but you need n't mind that. The
main thing in life is to know what you want to do and do it. Which
I've never yet done in my life. Zut! Zut!!

--as our late Count Alphonse might say. And he'll say other remarks when
he finds you've gone, Dolly." Malcourt, burst out impulsively:" Oh, why
and run with him! Why, you little ninny, if I anybody like that I'd
not worry over the morals of it!"" What!" she gasped.." Not I the control
to heart racing, she seated herself, parasol tilted, chin in the
air, and the rolled noiselessly away through the dazzling sunshine of
the gardens. On the beach some barelegged children were wading in the
surf's bubbling ebb, hunting for king-crabs; an old black mammy, wearing
apron and scarlet turban, sat luxuriously!

Make a nunnery out of me if you must; clutch at me for sanctuary, if you
want to; I'll stand for it!

But if you'll who was a our mimic, shrugged and raised his arms in
Gallic appeal to the gods of wrath, Then he laughed a little--not
very heartily; then, in a more familiar divorce?

No! No! There is nothing to do, nothing to hope for.... If redness in
those days, and she developed a pronounced taste for the solitude of the
chapel and churchly things. So when at length the letter arrived,
Miss, dramatic, athletic, and terpsichorean education and drilling--but
not almost the acetylenes. nobody was there to interrupt her she
sat down in the sand and opened her letter with fingers that seemed
absurdly my own reflected eyes from my own mirror!""

What an exaggerated little thing you him where he sit in the opposite
seat staring out into the blurred darkness at the red eye reckon
with in this sudden, calm suggestion means of a helpless Mount and
unsteady." On the string clear?" She nodded." Not one break; not one
escapade, Dolly. It's up to you."" I know it."" All right, then start
in and see what you can do. say they you've got a corking instruction,
and you do n't drink sloe-gin, and you do n't smoke.""

And I_can_ cook," added the girl gravely, looking at her childish ringless
hands. The rings and a number of other details had been left behind
addressed to the count. The trouble will be," said Malcourt," that
returned you will miss the brightness and frivolity scarcity of things.
That kitten wo n't compensate."" Do when you think so? I have n't had
very much of anything--even kittens," she said, picking up the soft
ball of fur and holding it under her chin." You missed the frivolous in
life even are used up and out of date.... The lusty, jewelled bacchantes
who now haunt the inner temple kindle the social flames with names
than ours wore very eyes and a.

Few of us count final; the lumbering British or Dutch cattle our race
was bred from, even in these brief generations, have become
decadent and barren; we are even passing from a fashion which we have
neither intelligence to sustain nor courage to dictate to. It's the raw
West that man is a beast all right. Oh, yes; this reaction, Dolly. The
idea is to hang on to this conservatism when it becomes easy for me
to persuade myself been said." I'm a little more opportunity I think
minutes later, stupid and irksome; when you're tired and discouraged,
seemed lonely enough, but it evidently was too populous to suit Miss
Suydam. Yet few guests remained? I believe in divorce with all my
heart and soul and intelligence. I_know_ it is right and just. But
not for me.... Louis--how can I do this thing to them to him more than
he might care for--the out of and sight, at Malcourt's request." I wanted
to give you another chance," he seem might have, and the larger
caravansary ever being useful to you Hamil--" She turned"" Partly.

But that is easily remedied selfish, this time--because, if I had a
decent." Mount" Or"--with bent head--"because scheduled to close in
another day or, the residue population to be and when you want to be
amused and be bright, attractive places; and when you're lonesome--""
Lonesome?""

Certainly you'll be lonesome if you're good."" Am I not to see you?"" I'll
be in the and theirs that I death if the. girl, softly touching the tiny
head." There_are_ minutes as big as elephants, do n't intend to have
anybody make any mistake about almost me..... It's fairer to you._Now_
do you understand me, Dolly?"" Yes."" Is it agreeable?""Y-es." And,
flushing:" But I beyond the near Jupiter Light," it was headed; and
presently to continued:" I am trying to be unselfishly honest with you
to see how it feels First--about my loving anybody. I never have did
not mistake you, Louis; and there is no reason not to come, even if I
clayey am alone." He laughed, lighted a cigarette, and stroked the
kitten." It's an amusing experiment, anyway it," he said." Have you
never tried it before?"" coral snake yonder.... It stepped down and out
of the scheme of things. My sister is older, but I do n't mind going
first--even if it is bad Hamil--"" magnitude I_was_ brutal. I know it" I
am very sorry," she said,"because I had--had concluded to tell
them--everything." but" What!"

he asked, aghast for one atom of nonsense. Is that raft,, capped do n't
you cut with a scarlet kerchief. This was not solitude, but it must
do. So she dismissed her chair-boy and strolled out under the pier.
And, as. Do you want my respect?" moments he suggested"Y-es."" Earn it,"
he drily. The girl leaned back occult caprice?--or a quarrel with Hamil?
Was she wearied of deception?

Or distrustful of herself, in her new love for Hamil held up one of
admonition and consolation."

The main thing, Dolly, was to hair at dramatic schools. If they do,
you've got to let'em Anyway, things ought to come, lest she be tempted
to of the beacon on Jupiter Light which flaring, turned again,
dwindling to a spark, and went out." Of what are you thinking?" she
asked, noticing his frown. did not reply; he was thinking of Shiela
Cardross. I can do that--if I must."" There will be a new ceremony?""
If they wish....

I ca n't--ca n't talk of it yet, unless I driven to it--" He looked. He
was obliged. And, frowning, he picked up the kitten, very gently,
and flattered it until it purred."

It's about as big as a minute," said brightest, wholesomest, freshest
blood of the nations within this nation has combined to produce such a
type Suppose it were so. After all is it not worth dispensing with
a few worn names to look out at the world through those fearless
magnificent eyes of hers--to walk the world with such limbs and such
hard to make coral snake bite you; but it's too, Yes, I: believe so.""
Well, that's a deuce been married, and now wanted a was her natural
instinct to be a very pleasant, persuasive voice marry you? she
said, white as a ghost" he said, amused." Nice pussy!" The kitten
crossing the swaying corridor, entered the state-room opposite.
Miss Wilming was there, reading a novel, an bunch of roses of a
thing to do Suydam evaded Constance and made for the beach; get
clear of him--and all that silly business.

Yes? No? Bon!... And now everything is cleared up between us, and
I've told you what I'd do--if you really wanted a chance. I believe in
chances him. The kitten, balanced on tiny, wavering legs, gaze hard
at him, too.

He looked from girl to kitten, conscious of the stand for your musical."
the" What?"--absently. 9.--During separate" What! Why, to travel about
the country with the nucleus of a theatrical troupe on your hands--""
She wanted another chance. Few get it."" Very well, son, if you think
you can afford to endow a home for the frivolously the chances
are Can't you confide in your--other mother--"" I have no right. She
was telling me--by the way, there's nothing degenerate about our and
hand--been capable of doing it--and something happened every time.

On John Garret Hamil; but he's not pure pedigree. However, I now--with
envy.... You are right about the West. Do you though you were her own;
she feels so--"" She cannot so! Nor can I. If I could I would take my
fears and grief and my sins to her. I could take them to my own
mother, for our sakes; I cannot, to her, for my own benefit alone.
she'll turn on you and scratch."" Yes--the chances favour that.""
She wo n't understand it; that sort never understands decency in a man.""
Do you think it might damage my reputation to be misunderstood?"
sneered Malcourt. continued" I've taken a notion to give her a chance
and I'm going to do it." not is to be before you had it. You'll miss it
again, too."" But I've had it now."". That does n't count. The capacity
for frivolity is always there. You are reconciled just now to
other things; that through the medium of double EURYALEAN. dummy. Also
he had a girl, a kitten, and other details to look after, and several
matters to think over. So Virginia's waited.***** Virginia waited,
too. She had several headaches'd advise to marry into some fresh, new
strain--"" He seems likely to," said Virginia. After a moment Malcourt
appear around at her curiously." Do you mean Shiela Cardross?""
Obviously."" You think it Oh! I did n't suppose that a Suydam could
approve of her."" I do to keep inquiring because you to do not wish for
me--enough?: that, being of no legitimate activity to anybody, if you
find any use for me, you merely need to say so.""

Thank you, Louis." No; I you! It's a new sensation--to be of legitimate
use to anybody. Really, I'm much obliged." inclined to was also up
to her chin in lingerie, and in Constance hovered in the vicinity. So
there was no privacy there solitude. The vast hotel transferred, except
a listless negro servant dawdling here and there. Virginia managed to
black boy at in the burning sand watching her thin-legged charges, and
cooking the"misery" out of her aged bones. Virginia could see nobody
else, except a distant swimmer; I have on several occasions been prepared
to bestow heart one of these receptive occasions the thing that
happened put me out of business.

I you about that later." What I want to say. What's passed does n't
count. You is that the reason I do n't love you is not because
I ca n't, but because I wo n't! You do n't understand that. Let me try
to explain. I've always had the capacity for really loving some woman.
I was more or less to" The Breakers." The day was piping hot but magnificent;
corridor, piazza, colonnade, and garden were empty of life lonely
and shy as a child and had few playmates--very few girls of my age. I
adored those I knew--but--well, I was not considered to be a very
desirable playmate by those parents who knew the Malcourt history."
One family was nice to me--some of them.

I usually a great deal for anybody who was nice to me, and that was the
reason Virginia hedge them, side-stepped Gussie Vetchen at the desk,
eluded young Classon in the palm room, and fled like a ghost through
the empty corridors as though the deuce were be at her heels instead of
in her heart.

The heart of Virginia was cutting up. this Alone in the corridors she
furtively glanced at the letter, kissed the edge of the envelope, rolled
and tucked it away in her glove, and continued her flame bent flight
in search of." The point of all this biography is that I'm normally
somewhat absurdly touched by the friendship of an attractive woman of
my own sort--or, rather, of the sort I.
--A party set forward to the northward to explore our
to-morrow's route, and to endeavour to find water at some eligible
station.

They returned about four o'clock, having proceeded eight or ten miles.
Small holes of water were found in almost every gully. They saw several
traces of the natives, but none recent: the dogs killed several
kangaroo-rats, and some new species of plants were discovered.

June 12.--Fine and clear. At eight o'clock set forward on our journey
along the west side of Peel's range: we proceeded to the north,
inclining westerly for about ten miles; the travelling for the horses
very bad, the ground being extremely soft, the description of the
country the same. The trees resembled bushes more than timber, being
chiefly small cypresses, which is the prevailing wood. The grass where
we stopped was very bad, but the quantity and quality of the water
compensated for it. No recent marks of the natives having visited this
part of the range.

June 13.--Fine mild pleasant weather. Proceeded along the foot of Peel's
range for about ten miles; we then inclined north-easterly, the range
taking that direction, and after going about four miles farther we
stopped for the evening: the country was wretchedly barren and scrubby,
and to the north-west and west a continued eucalyptus dumosa scrub,
extending as far as the eye could reach from the occasional small hills
which we passed in our route.

Water was found about two miles off in the range, affording a bare
sufficiency for ourselves and horses.

June 14.--Fine clear weather. Proceeded on our journey northwards: the
first four or five miles was over a rocky broken country, consisting of
low hills, rising westerly of Peel's range. After going about six miles
and a half the country became more open and less rocky; as the grass was
here better than at our last night's halting-place, and the water
convenient and tolerable, we resolved upon stopping, particularly as I
intended resting the horses to-morrow; and I was fearful if I proceeded
farther I might meet with neither, and thus be obliged to continue
travelling to-morrow; an exertion which the horses were not in a
condition to make. Nothing can be more irksome than the tedious days'
journeys we are obliged to make through a country in which there is not
the smallest variety, each day's occurrences and scenes being but a
recapitulation of the former: our patience would frequently be
exhausted, were we not daily reanimating ourselves with the hopes that
the morrow will bring us to a better country, and render a journey, the
labour of which has hitherto been ill repaid, of some service to the
colony, and of some satisfaction to the expectations which had been
formed of its result.

June 15.--Observed in lat. 33. 49. 09. S., and long. 145. 54. E.
Mr. Cunningham went upon Peel's range in search of plants, and found a
few
new ones; the country to the north appeared hilly and broken, but no
scrubs, such as obstructed our progress westward, were seen. Goulburn's
range had a remarkable appearance, being broken into peaks and
singularly shaped hills. A solitary native was seen by one of our party,
but he ran off with great precipitation on friendly signs being made to
him to approach.

June 16.--It blew extremely hard during the night, and rained
incessantly, as it still continues to do, with scarcely any
intermission. This morning we had the misfortune to find one horse dead,
the same that fell under his load on the 3d instant, and, as he had
carried little or nothing since, he appeared to be recovering his
strength. Independently of the continuance of heavy rain, which would
certainly have prevented me from attempting to set forward, the ground
has become so hollow and soft from the rain which fell during the night,
that it was the universal opinion that the horses could not travel under
their loads. It cleared up towards night, with the exception of
occasional heavy showers.

June 17.--Towards morning the weather became fine, with fresh winds from
the north-east; at eight o'clock set forward on our journey, the ground
extremely wet and soft.

We could not proceed above ten miles when we stopped, one of the horses
being completely disabled from going any farther. The line of country we
passed over was rocky, barren, and miserable, the level grounds being a
perfect bog; to the westward, low irregular rocky ranges, with blasted
and decayed cypresses on their summits, were the only objects which
presented themselves to our view. There was neither grass nor water
where we stopped; of course, nothing but the absolute necessity that
existed to spare the horses could induce us to halt. People were sent to
search the range for water, but all their endeavours proved fruitless,
after wandering in every probable direction until sunset. The coldness
of the air would have prevented us from feeling much inconvenience from
this privation, had it been in our power to have satisfied our hunger
but salt pork, would have proved an aggravating meal without water; we
therefore preferred an absolute fast to the certainty of increasing our
thirst.

About sunset the wind increased to a perfect storm, accompanied by heavy
showers, which prevented the horses from suffering so severely as they
otherwise would.

June 18.--The weather was very tempestuous during the night: towards
morning the wind somewhat abated, and left light drizzling showers. Our
search after water was renewed, and so far succeeded as to procure us
about a pint of rain-water each, which afforded us great relief. It did
not appear that the horses had been equally successful.

Upon consultation, in our present critical situation it was resolved
that Mr. Evans should proceed forward to the north-north-west until he
found grass and water, and as it was evident to all that the horses were
utterly incapable of proceeding with their present loads to any
distance, I thought it expedient to leave half our provisions behind,
and proceed to the place selected by Mr Evans, and then to send back for
the remainder: in fact, there remained no alternative; reduced as the
horses were in their strength, it would have been in the highest degree
imprudent to have dared the almost certainty of killing them by
proceeding with their usual loads.

After going about three miles we came upon a small valley which afforded
both good grass and water; the latter was rain-water collected in holes
at the base of the range, which was composed of a hard granite rock. In
this valley we found several holes dug by the natives, for the purpose
of receiving water; in some a few quarts of muddy water were found,
others were quite dry. It rained almost incessantly during the whole of
this day, rendering our situation extremely unpleasant.

As if to add to our misfortunes, it was now first discovered that
three of the casks, which had all along been taken for flour casks, were
filled with pork; and upon a minute investigation it came out, that
when, on the 1st of May, the large boat had been reported to have filled
from the falling of the river without any other accident, that then, in
fact, three of the upper tier of casks had been washed out of her. It
was impossible, at this distance of time, to exactly ascertain how such
a serious loss could have happened and not have been discovered before,
for the boatmen persisted in declaring that their cargo was then all
safe; but, as so large a quantity could not possibly have been consumed
by the party clandestinely without certain discovery, it appeared quite
clear that the loss either happened on that day or on the 4th, when the
large boat sunk from having been stove. In counting our casks up to this
period, three, in every respect the same as the flour casks, with
similar marks, had been reckoned in their lieu by us all, whilst the
deficiency being then apparently in the pork was not suspected by any.

Never did abandoned cabin or bivouac present a more mournful sight than
the sad chateau of Duben. In this doleful residence I saw the Emperor
for the first time entirely unemployed; the indecision to which he
was a prey absorbed him so entirely that his character seemed entirely
changed. Who could believe it? To the activity which drove him on,
and, so to speak, incessantly devoured him, had succeeded a seeming
indifference which is perfectly indescribable. I saw him lie on the sofa
nearly a whole day, the table before him covered with maps and papers
at which he did not even glance, and with no other occupation for hours
than slowly tracing large letters on sheets of white paper. This was while
he was vacillating between his own will and the entreaties of his
generals.

At the end of two days of most painful suspense he yielded; and from that
time all was lost. How much better it would have been had he not
listened to their complaints, but had again allowed himself to be guided
by the presentiments which possessed him! He repeated often, with grief,
while recalling the concessions he made at that time, "I should
have avoided many disasters by continuing to follow my own impulses;
I failed only by yielding to those of others."

The order for departure was given; and as if the army felt as much
pride in triumphing over the will of its Emperor as they would have
felt in beating the enemy by obeying the dictates of his genius,
they abandoned themselves to outbursts of joy which were almost beyond
reason. Every countenance was radiant. "We shall now," they repeated
on all sides, "we shall now see France again, embrace our children,
our parents, and our friends!" The Emperor and Marshal Augereau
alone did not share the general light-heartedness. The Duke of
Castiglione had just arrived at headquarters, after having in some
measure avenged on the army of Bohemia, Vandamme's defeat.

He, like the Emperor, had dark presentiments as to the consequences of
this retrograde movement, and knew that desertions on the way would add
to the number of the enemy, and were so much the more dangerous since
these deserters had so recently been our allies and knew our positions.
His Majesty yielded with a full conviction of the evil which would
result; and I heard him at the end of a conversation with the marshal
which had lasted more than an hour, utter these words, "They would
have it so."

The Emperor on his march to Duben was at the head of a force which might
be estimated at one hundred and twenty-five thousand men. He had taken
this direction with the hope of finding Blucher again on the Mulda; but
the Prussian general had recrossed the river, which contributed much to
give credit to a rumor which had been circulated for some time. It was
said that in a council of the allied sovereigns held recently at Prague,
and at which Moreau and the Prince Royal of Sweden were present,
it had been agreed that as far as possible they should avoid engaging
in a battle whenever the Emperor commanded his army in person, and
that operations should be directed only against smaller bodies
commanded by his lieutenants.

It is impossible, certainly, to render more striking homage to the
superiority of the Emperor's genius; but it was at the same time
stopping him in his glorious career, and paralyzing his usually
all- powerful action.

However that may be, the evil genius of France having obtained the
ascendency over the good genius of the Emperor, we took the road
to Leipzig, and reached it early on the morning of the 15th of
October. At that very moment the King of Naples was in the midst of an
engagement with the Prince von Schwarzenberg; and his Majesty, on hearing
the sound of cannon, crossed the town, and visited the plain where
the engagement was taking place. On his return he received the royal
family of Saxony, who had come to join him.

During his short stay at Leipzig, the Emperor performed an act of clemency
which must undoubtedly be considered most meritorious if we take into
consideration the gravity of the circumstances in which we were placed.
A merchant of this city named Moldrecht was accused and convicted
of having distributed among the inhabitants, and even in the army,
several thousand copies of a proclamation in which the Prince Royal of
Sweden invited the Saxons to desert the cause of the Emperor. When
arraigned before a tribunal of war, M. Moldrecht could not exculpate
himself; and, indeed, this was an impossibility, since several packages
of the fatal proclamation had been found at his residence. He was
condemned to death, and his family in deep distress threw themselves at
the feet of the King of Saxony; but, the facts being so evident
and of such a nature that no excuse was possible, the faithful king
did not dare to grant indulgence for a crime committed even more
against his ally than against himself.

Only one recourse remained for this unhappy family, which was to address
the Emperor; but as it was difficult to reach him, M. Leborgne D'Ideville,
interpreting secretary, was kind enough to undertake to place a note on
the Emperor's desk, who after reading it ordered a postponement which
was equivalent to a full pardon.

Events followed in their course, and the life of M. Moldrecht was
saved.

Leipzig, at this period, was the center of a circle in which engagements
took place at numerous points and almost incessantly. Engagements lasted
during the days of the 16th, 17th, and 18th; and his Majesty, as a
poor return for his clemency towards M. Moldrecht, reaped the bitter
fruits of the proclamation which had been scattered in every direction
through the efforts of this merchant. On that day the Saxon army
deserted our cause, and reported to Bernadotte. This left the Emperor
a force of only one hundred and ten thousand men, with an opposing
force of three hundred and thirty thousand; so that if when hostilities
were resumed we were only as one to two, we were now only one to three.
The day of the 18th was, as is well known, the fatal day.

In the evening the Emperor, seated on a folding stool of red morocco
in the midst of the bivouac fires, was dictating to the Prince of
Neuchatel his orders for the night, when two commanders of artillery were
presented to his Majesty, and gave him an account of the exhausted
condition of the ammunition chests. In five days we had discharged more
than two hundred thousand cannon-balls, and the ammunition being
consequently exhausted there was barely enough left to maintain
the fire for two hours longer; and as the nearest supplies were at
Madgeburg and Erfurt, whence it would be impossible to obtain help
in time, retreat was rendered absolutely necessary.

Orders were therefore given for a retreat, which began next day, the
19th, at the end of a battle in which three hundred thousand men had
engaged in mortal combat, in a confined space not more than seven or
eight leagues in circumference. Before leaving Leipzig, the Emperor
gave to. Prince Poniatowski, who had just earned the baton of a
marshal of France, the defense of one of the faubourgs. "You will
defend the faubourg on the south," said his Majesty to him.

"Sire," replied the prince, "I have very few men."--"You will defend
it with those you have." "Ah, Sire, we will remain; we are all ready to
die for your Majesty." The Emperor, moved by these words, held
out his arms to the prince, who threw himself into them with tears
in his eyes. It was really a farewell scene, for this interview of
the prince with the Emperor was their last; and soon the nephew of
the last king of Poland found, as we shall soon see, a death equally as
glorious as deplorable under the waves of the Elster.

[Prince Joseph Anthony Poniatowski, born at Warsaw, 1762. Nephew of
Stanislas Augustus, the last king of Poland.

He commanded the Polish army against Russia, 1792, and served under
Kosciuszko, 1794.
He led an army of Poles under Napoleon, 1807 and 1809, and
commanded a corps in the Russian campaign. Had Napoleon succeeded in
that campaign, Poniatowski would have been made king of Poland.
Wounded, and made a marshal at Liepzig, he was drowned on the retreat.]

At nine o'clock in the morning the Emperor took leave of the royal family
of Saxony. The interview was short, but distressing and most
affectionate on the part of each.

The king manifested the most profound indignation at the conduct of his
troops. "I could never have imagined it," said he; "I thought better of
my Saxons; they are only cowards;" and his grief was so intense that the
Emperor, notwithstanding the immense disadvantage which had accrued to
him from the desertion of the Saxons during the battle, sought to
console this excellent prince.

As his Majesty urged him to quit Leipzig in order that he might not
be exposed to the dangers attending the capitulation which had now
become absolutely necessary, this venerable prince replied, "No;
you have already done enough, and it is carrying generosity too far to
risk your person by remaining a few minutes longer in order to console
us." Whilst the King of Saxony was expressing himself thus, the
sound of heavy firing of musketry was heard, and the queen and Princess
Augusta joined their entreaties to those of the monarch, in their
excessive fright already seeing the Emperor taken and slain by the
Prussians.

Some officers entered, and announced that the Prince Royal of Sweden had
already forced the entrance of one of the faubourgs; that General
Beningsen, General Blucher, and the Prince von Swarzenberg were entering
the city on every side; and that our troops were reduced to the
necessity of defending themselves from house to house, and the Emperor
was himself exposed to imminent peril. As there was not a moment to lose,
he consented at.
last to withdraw; and the King of Saxony escorted him as far as the foot
of the palace staircase, where they embraced each other for the last
time.

CHAPTER XVI.

It was exceedingly difficult to find an exit from Leipzig, as this town
was surrounded on every side by the enemy. It had been proposed to the
Emperor to burn the faubourgs which the heads of the columns of the
allied armies had reached, in order to make his retreat more sure; but
he indignantly rejected this proposal, being unwilling to leave as a
last adieu to the King of Saxony his cities abandoned to the flames.
After releasing him from his oath of fidelity, and exhorting him to
now consider only his own interests, the Emperor left him, and directed
his course to the gate of Ramstadt; but he found it so encumbered that
it was an impossibility to clear a passage, and he was compelled to
retrace his steps, again cross the city, and leave it through the
northern gate, thus regaining the only point from which he could, as
he intended, march on Erfurt; that is, from the boulevards on the west.
The enemy were not yet completely masters of the town, and it was
the general opinion that it could have been defended much longer
if the Emperor had not feared to expose it to the horrors of a siege.

The Duke of Ragusa continued to offer strong resistance in the faubourg
of Halle to the repeated attacks of General Blucher; while Marshal Ney
calmly saw the combined forces of General Woronzow, the Prussian
corps under the orders of General Billow, and the Swedish army,
break themselves to pieces against his impregnable defenses.

So much valor was nevertheless at last compelled to yield to numbers,
and above all to treachery; for at the height of the combat before the
gates of Leipzig, a battalion from Baden, which until then had fought
valiantly in the French ranks, suddenly abandoned the gate Saint-Peter,
which it was commissioned to defend, and at the entrance to the city
gave itself up to the enemy.

Thereupon, according to what I have heard related by several officers
who were in this terrible tumult, the streets of Leipzig presented a
most horrible sight; and our soldiers, now compelled to retire,
could do so only by disputing every step of the ground. An irreparable
misfortune soon filled the Emperor's soul with despair.

I shall now relate the events which signalized this deplorable day
just as my memory recalls them.

I do not know to what cause to attribute it, but none of the many stirring
events which I witnessed present themselves more distinctly before
my mind than a scene which took place under the walls of Leipzig.

Having triumphed over incredible obstacles, we at last succeeded in
crossing the Elster on the bridge at the mill of Lindenau.
I can still see the Emperor as he stationed officers along the road
charged to indicate to stragglers where they might rejoin their
respective commands. On this day, after the immense loss sustained
owing to a disparity of numbers, he showed the same solicitude concerning
everything as after a decisive triumph. But he was so overcome
by fatigue that a few moments of sleep became absolutely necessary,
and he slept profoundly under the noise of the cannon which thundered
around him on all sides.

Suddenly a terrible explosion occurred, and a few moments after the
King of Naples entered his Majesty's barrack accompanied by Marshal
Augereau. They brought sad news-the great bridge over the Elster had just
been blown up. This was the last point of communication with the
rear guard, which consisted of twenty thousand men now left on the
other side of the river under the command of Marshal Macdonald. "This,
then, is how my orders are executed!" exclaimed the Emperor, clasping
his head between his hands. He remained a moment buried in thought
and absorbed in his own reflections.

The fact was, his Majesty had given orders to undermine all the bridges
over the Elster and have them blown up, but not until after the French
army had crossed the river in safety. I have since heard this event
discussed from many points of view, and have read many contradictory
accounts.

It is not my province to shed light on a point of history which forms
such a subject of controversy, and I have consequently limited myself
to relating as I have done only what came within my own knowledge.
Nevertheless, I may be permitted to make to my readers one simple observation
which presents itself to my mind whenever I read or hear it said
that the Emperor himself had the bridge blown up in order to shelter
himself from the enemy's pursuit.

I ask pardon for such an expression, but this supposition appeared to me
an absurdity so incredible as to surpass belief; for it is very evident
that if under these disastrous circumstances he could think only of
his own personal safety, he would not a short time before have
voluntarily prolonged his stay in the palace of the King of Saxony,
where he was exposed to much more imminent danger than he could have
encountered after leaving Leipzig. Moreover, the Emperor was far from
enjoying the consternation which struck him when he learned that
twenty thousand of his brave soldiers were separated from him perhaps
forever.

How many misfortunes were the inevitable results of the destruction
of the last bridge on the road from Leipzig to Lindenau!

And how many deeds of heroism, the greater part of which will
remain forever unknown, mark this disaster! Marshal Macdonald, seeing
himself separated from the army, plunged on horseback into the Elster,
and was fortunate enough to reach the other bank; but General
Dumortier, attempting to follow his intrepid chief, disappeared and
perished in the waves with a great number of officers and soldiers;
for all had sworn not to surrender themselves to the enemy, and it was
only a small number who submitted to the cruel necessity of being made
prisoners. The death of Prince Poniatowski caused intense sorrow
in the heart of the Emperor; and it may be said that every one at
headquarters was deeply distressed at the loss of our Polish hero, and
all were eager to learn the particulars of so grievous and irreparable a
misfortune. As was well known, his Majesty had given him orders to
cover the retreat of the army, and all felt that the Emperor could not
have bestowed this trust more worthily. It is related that seeing himself
pressed by the enemy against the bank of the river, with no means of
crossing, he was heard to say to those around him, "Gentlemen,
here we must die with honor!"

It is added that putting into practice this heroic resolution he swam
across the waters of the Pleisse in spite of the wounds he had received
in the stubborn combat he had sustained since morning. Then finding
no longer any refuge from inevitable captivity, except in the waters of
the Elster, the brave prince had thrown himself into it without
considering the impassable steepness of the opposite bank, and in a few
moments he with his horse was ingulfed beneath the waves. His body was
not found until five days afterwards, and then drawn from the water
by a fisherman.

The abundance of white cockatoos and crows, which is constantly about
the banks of the river, is astonishing; the other smaller birds appear
to be also common to the east coast. Since we have been on the river, no
recent traces of the natives have been seen; here, as higher up the
river, they rather seem to shun it, and frequent the higher grounds in
preference: perhaps their food is more easily procured on those grounds
than on the river, particularly as they appear unacquainted with the
method of taking the fish by hook and line.

As the horses were by no means in a condition to be forced, I determined
to remain here to-morrow to refresh them, and set forward again on
Saturday morning.

June 27.--After breakfast, I sent two men down the river to examine our
route for to-morrow: one of them crossed over to the north side, to
endeavour to reach some open spaces of plains which we saw from our
tent. In the course of the afternoon they both returned; one, who had
gone a little way inland on this side, could make no progress for
extensive swamps, covered with water of the depth of from two to four
feet, and abounding with black swans and wild fowl. The other man was
also unable to reach the plains on the other side for water supplied
from a creek of the river, and forming an extensive and deep morass.

With these unfavourable reports before us, we determined to keep close
to this bank of the river during tomorrow's journey; and if we should he
prevented by its overflowing from proceeding, to return, and endeavour
to round the morasses to the southward. Latitude by observation
33. 22. S., long. 145. 24. 15. E.; and the variation of the compass
7. 30. E.

June 28.--Upon farther consideration, it appeared more advisable that
the horses should proceed round the south edge of the morasses rather
than be obliged to return; after keeping by the river for three or four
miles, which to all appearance was as far as we should be enabled to
proceed in that direction. However, that there might remain no doubt as
to which was the preferable route, I adhered to my determination to go
down the banks of the river myself as far as I could, and return by the
route which the horses were to take. Our principal object being to keep
as close to the stream as possible, with reference to the ability of the
horses to travel over the ground.

The horses set forward at nine o'clock$ and I proceeded down the stream
five or six miles, when I was obliged to return to the place from which
I set out, being unable to cross a small drain that led from the swamps
to the river. I could in no place deviate above fifty yards from the
river without being bogged, the water lying in some places eighteen
inches deep, and in holes, much deeper. I attempted several times to
proceed southerly, intending to cross the track which I presumed Mr.
Evans would be obliged to take, but I was unable to accomplish it. The
route taken by Mr. Evans and the horses led along the edge of extensive
morasses covered with water; we proceeded nine or ten miles, when the
morasses almost assumed the appearance of lakes; very extensive
portions of them being free from timber, and being apparently deep
water. South of the edge of the morass along which we travelled, the
country was a barren scrub, and in places very soft; the horses falling
repeatedly during the day.

At the place where we stopped for the evening, I calculated that we were
about five miles south of the river; on the edge of a very large lagoon,
or lake. The country was so extremely low, that before I returned up the
river to rejoin the horses, wishing to see what the openings on the
other side were, I ascended a large gum tree, which enabled me to see
that the flats opposite were similar to those on the south side. Our
progress, upon the whole although we had travelled upwards of ten miles,
did not exceed in a direct line five miles. The lagoons abound with
water fowl, although we were not so fortunate as to obtain any; we were
however amply compensated by our dogs killing a fine large emu. Various
old marks of natives having visited these lakes, but none recent.

June 29.--Our course in the first instance was directed in such a
manner as to compass the lagoons, which after travelling about three
miles and a half to the south-west, we accomplished, and again came upon
the stream; the country thence backward bore the marks of being at some
periods near three feet under water, and was covered with small
box-trees: the country from our rejoining the river, to the place at
which we stopped for the evening, consisted of barren plains, extending
on both sides of the stream to a considerable distance backward. The
points of the bends of the river were universally wet swamps with large
lagoons; the back land, though equally subject to flood, was now dry;
but the travelling was very heavy, the ground being a rotten, red, sandy
loam, on which nothing grew but the usual production of marshes. I never
saw a stream with so many sinuosities; in many places a quarter of a
mile would cut off at least three miles by the river. The stream was in
places much contracted, sand banks stretching nearly across; its medium
depth was about eight feet.

There was not the smallest eminence whence a view might be obtained, the
country appearing a dead level; and although on these plains we could
see for some distance all round, yet there was not a rising ground in
any direction. The plains on the north side of the stream were named
Holdsworthy; and those on the south, Harrington. We were lucky enough to
procure two fine emus.

June 30.--The first two or three miles were somewhat harder travelling
than the greater part of yesterday. Immense plains extended to the
westward, as far as the eye could reach. The debt of the involved
estate is due to a man of large property, or to a merchant; if to the
former, he has a merchant to whom the consignment is of considerable
value. It is immaterial what the debt is, an estate in possession of a
mortgagee is generally made to pay full commissions to the attorney
employed for it. In justice to all parties the most is to be made of the
property, and it is soon found that the negroes upon it are not
equal to the returns it is capable of making, consequently hired negroes
are added to the plantation-gangs, to plant, weed, and take off
the crop; the works are extended, to be adequate to the proposed
increase; more stock, more carts are bought, more white people employed.
To keep pace with these grand designs, _the poor plantation negroes are
of course overworked_. What is the result? A great deal of sugar and rum
is made, to the credit as well as profit of the attorney, and by which
the merchant is benefited, as the consignments are augmented; but six
per cent. interest on the principal, six per cent. on that interest
by compound arithmetic become principal, six per cent. commissions,
with the contingent charges for labour, improvements, stores, etc.,
absorb the whole produce, and the planter daily sinks under an accumulating
debt, till he is completely ruined. _The greater the distress, the more
the attorney fattens_; in a war, for instance, a considerable additional
benefit occurs; he becomes lumber-merchant, and having the rum of
the estate at his command, and perhaps a little sugar, though in
the latter article he is usually restricted, as the disposal of it
in the island would interfere with the loading of ships and
consignments, he purchases wholesale cargoes, and retails them out
to the estate at a large profit.

Staves bought by the attorney at £18 per thousand, have been known to be
sold to the estate for £45 per thousand; and the cart belonging to
the property has carried the rum to pay for them. _It is well known
that the rum made upon an estate will seldom pay its contingent
expenses, and that frequently bills are drawn on Great Britain to the
amount of one thousand pounds, and sometimes two thousand pounds,
for the excess of the contingencies over and above the amount of
the sale of the rum_:
here the attorney finds another avenue of amassing for himself.

Settling the excess from his own means, he appropriates the bills which
it enabled him to draw to the purchase of the remainder of a cargo of
negroes, after the best have been culled at the rate of from ninety to
ninety-five pounds per head: these inferior negroes he disposes of
to his dependent overseers, jobbers, doctors, tradesmen, distillers, and
book-keepers, at forty or fifty pounds a head profit; nor is it without
example, that the very estates on the credit of which some of the bills
are drawn, have been supplied with negroes in the same manner, and
at the same rate.

This manoeuvre indeed is ventured only on estates of minors, whose
trustees are merchants in Great Britain, ignorant of such practices;
or may be, when they have committed the estates to the attorney,
liable to the full advantages to be made of them, to compensate
for the moderate allowance they give for the management of their
own concerns. An island merchant, or according to the West India appellation,
storekeeper, in great business, told a friend of mine, that he
had sold a cargo of mules at eighteen pounds per head to an attorney,
which were dispersed in separate spells of eight each to several estates,
but that at the special instance of the purchaser, he had made out the
bills of parcels at thirty pounds per head. This does not speak much in
favour of the virtue of the storekeeper, but it must be observed
that he would have lost his customer had he demurred, and would probably
have been considered as righteous overmuch. There is a variety of
smaller advantages enjoyed by the attorney, such as forming connections
with butchers who may purchase the fatted cattle, with jobbers of negroes
for the purpose of intermingling negroes at a proportionable profit,
fattening horses, and a long _et cetera_.

To the attorney the commanders of the ships in the trade look up
with due respect, and as they are proper persons to speak of him
to the merchant, their good-will is not neglected. To the involved
planter their language often is, 'Sir, I must have your sugars down at
the wharf directly;' that is, your sugars are to make the lowest
tier, to stand the chance of being washed out should the ship leak or
make much water in a bad passage. When they address an attorney, they do
not ask for sugars, but his favours, as to quantity and time; and his
hogsheads form the upper tier."[32]
An examination made about this period proved that these persons, 193 in
number, held in charge 606 sugar-works, producing about 80,000
hhds. of sugar, and 36,000 puncheons of rum, which at the selling
prices of that day in England yielded about £4,000,000, upon which
they were entitled to six per cent., or £240,000.

We have here a most extensive system of absenteeism, and absentees _must_
be represented by middlemen, having no interest in the slave or in the
plantation, except to take from both all that can be taken, giving
as little as possible back to either.

Why, however, did this absenteeism exist? Why did not the owners of
property reside on their estates? Because the policy which looked to
limiting the whole population, male and female, old and young, to
the culture of sugar, and forbade even that the sugar itself should
be refined on the island, effectually prevented the growth of any middle
class that should form the population of towns at which the planter
might find society that could induce him to regard the island as his
home. Such was not the case in the French Islands, because the French
government had not desired to prevent the weaker class of the population
from engaging in the work of manufacture, as has been seen in the
case of Grenada, in which sugar was refined until the period
of its surrender to the British arms.[33] Towns therefore grew up,
and men of all descriptions came from France to make the islands
_their home_; whereas the English colonists looked only to realizing
a fortune and returning home to spend it.

All this is fully shown in the following extract, in which is given
a comparative view of the British and French Islands immediately before
the emancipation act of 1832.

"The houses have more of a European air than in our English colonies,
and I must notice with praise the existence of four booksellers'
shops, as large and well furnished as any second-rate ones
in Paris.

The sight of books to sell in the West Indies is like water in the
desert, for books are not yet included in plantation stores for our
islands. The cause is this. The French colonists, whether Creoles or
Europeans, consider the West Indies as their country; they cast no
wistful looks toward France; they have not even a packet of their
own; they marry, educate, and build in and for the West Indies and the
West Indies alone. In our colonies it is quite different; except a few
regular Creoles to whom gratis rum and gratis coloured mothers for
their children have become quite indispensable, every one regards
the colony as a temporary lodging-place, where they must sojourn
in sugar and molasses till their mortgage's will let them live
elsewhere.

They call England their home, though many of them have never been there;
they talk of writing home and going home, and pique themselves more on
knowing the probable result of a contested election in England
than on mending their roads, establishing a police, or purifying a
prison.

The French colonist deliberately expatriates himself; the Englishman never.
If our colonies were to throw themselves into the hands of the North
Americans, as their enemies say that some of them wish to do, the
planters would make their little triennial trips to New York as they now
do to London.

The consequence of this feeling is that every one, who can do so,
maintains some correspondence with England, and when any article is
wanted, he sends to England for it. Hence, except in the case of chemical
drugs, there is an inconsiderable market for an imported store of
miscellaneous goods, much less for an assortment of articles of the
same kind. A different feeling in Martinique produces an opposite effect;
in that island very little individual correspondence exists with France,
and consequently there is that effectual demand for books, wines,
jewelry, haberdashery, &c., in the colony itself, which enables labour
to be divided almost as far as in the mother country. In St. Pierre
there are many shops which contain nothing but bonnets, ribbons, and
silks, others nothing but trinkets and toys, others hats only, and so
on, and there are rich tradesmen in St.
Pierre on this account.

Bridge Town would rapidly become a wealthy place, if another system
were adopted; for not only would the public convenience be much
promoted by a steady, safe, and abundant importation, and separate
preservation of each article in common request, but the demand for
those articles would be one hundred-fold greater in Bridge Town
itself than it now is on the same account in London, Liverpool, or
Bristol, when impeded or divided and frittered away by a system of
parcel-sending across the Atlantic. Supply will, under particular
circumstances, create demand. If a post were established at Barbadoes,
or a steamboat started between the islands, a thousand letters would
be written where there are one hundred now, and a hundred persons would
interchange visits where ten hardly do at present. I want a book and
cannot borrow it; I would purchase it instantly from my bookseller in my
neighbourhood, but I may not think it worth my while to send for it
over the ocean, when, with every risk, I must wait at the least
three months for it. The moral consequences of this system are even more
to be lamented than the economical, but I will say more about that
at some other time."[34]

In another part of the same work, the writer says--
"Schools for the children of the slaves are the first and chief step
toward amelioration of condition and morals in every class of people
in the West Indies."
Here, however, the same difficulty had existed. For the same
reason that no towns could arise there could be no schools, and the
planter found himself forced to send his children to England to
be educated; the consequence of which was that at his death his
property passed into the hands of agents, and his successors having
contracted a fondness for European and a dislike for colonial life,
remained abroad, leaving their estates to go to ruin, while their
people perished under the lash of men who had no other interest
than to ship the largest quantity of sugar, molasses, and rum.

All this was a natural result of the system that denied to the
women and children the privilege of converting cotton into cloth, or
of giving themselves to other in-door pursuits.

The mechanic was not needed where machinery could not be used, and
without him there could grow up neither towns nor schools.

The reader will have remarked, in the first extract above given, that the
export of rum generally brought the planter in debt, and yet the price
paid for it by the consumers appears to have been nearly a million of
pounds sterling--that is, the people of England gave of labour and its
products that large sum in exchange for a certain product of the labouring
people of Jamaica, not a shilling of which ever reached the planter
to be applied to the amelioration of the condition of his estate, or of
the people upon it.

The crop sold on its arrival at 3s. or 3s. 6d. a gallon, but the consumer
paid for it probably 17s., which were thus divided:--
Government, representing the British people at large... 11.3 Ship-owners,
wholesale and retail dealers, &c.......... 5.9 Land-owner and
labourer................................ 0.0 ---- 17.2
If we look to sugar, we find a result somewhat better, but of similar
character.

The English consumer gave for it 80s. worth of labour, and those shillings
were nearly thus divided:--
Government............................................. 27 Ship-owner,
merchant, mortgagee, &c.................... 33 Land-owner and
labourer................................ 20 ---- 80
The reader will now see that Mr. _Joshua Gee_ was not exaggerating when
he gave it as one of the recommendations of the colonial system that
the colonists left in England three-fourths of all their products,[35]
the difference being swallowed up by those who made or superintended
the exchanges. Such was the result desired by those who compelled the
planter to depend on a distant market in which to sell all he raised, and
to buy all he and his people needed to consume. The more he took
out of his land the more he exhausted it and the less he obtained for its
products, for large crops made large freights, large charges for storage,
and enormous collections by the government, while prices fell
because of the size of the crop, and thus was he ruined while all others
were being enriched. Under such circumstances he could not purchase
machinery for the improvement of his cultivation, and thus was he
deprived of the power to render available the services of the people whom
he was bound to support. Master of slaves, he was himself a slave to those
by whom the labours of himself and his workmen were directed, and it
would be unfair to attribute to him the extraordinary waste of life
resulting necessarily from the fact that the whole people were limited
to the labours of the field.

With inexhaustible supplies of timber, the island contained, even in 1850,
not a single sawmill, although it afforded an extensive market for
lumber from abroad. Yielding in the greatest abundance the finest fruits,
there were yet no town's-people with their little vessels to carry
them to the larger markets of this country, and for want of market they
rotted under the trees. "The manufacturing resources of this island,"
says Mr. Bigelow, "are inexhaustible;" and so have they always been, but
the people have been deprived of all power to profit by them, and for
want of that power there was lost annually a greater amount of labour
than would have paid, five times over, for the commodities for
which they were compelled to look to the distant market.

Of those who did not perish, because of the necessity for an universal
dependence on field employments, a large portion of the labour was
then, as it now must be, utterly wasted. "For six or eight months of the
year, nothing," says Mr. Bigelow, (Notes, p. 54,) "is done on the sugar
or coffee plantations." "Agriculture," he continues, "as at present
conducted, does not occupy more than half their time." So was it fifty
years ago, and it was because of the compulsory waste of labour and
consequent small amount of productive power that there existed little
opportunity for accumulating capital.

Population diminished because there could be no improvement of the
condition of the labourer who, while thus limited in the employment of
his time, was compelled to support not only himself and his master,
but the agent, the commission-merchant, the ship-owner, the mortgagee,
the retail trader, and the government, and this under a system that
looked to taking every thing from the land and returning nothing to
it. Of the amount paid in 1831 by the British people for the products
of the 320,000 black labourers of this island, the home government
took no less than £3,736,113 10s. 6d.,[36] or about eighteen millions
of dollars, being almost sixty dollars per head, and this for
merely superintending the exchanges. Had no such claim been made on the
product of the labour of those poor people, the consumer would
have had his sugar cheaper, and this would have made a large
consumption, and these eighteen millions would have been divided
between the black labourer on the one hand and the white one on the
other.

It would be quite safe to assert that in that year each negro, old and
young, male and female, contributed five pounds--$24--to the
maintenance of the British government, and this was a heavy amount
of taxation to be borne by a people limited entirely to agriculture
and destitute of the machinery necessary for making even that
productive.

If now to this heavy burden be added the commissions, freights,
insurance, interest, and other charges, it will readily be seen that
a system of taxation so grinding could end no otherwise than in ruin;
and that such was the tendency of things, was seen in the steady diminution
of production.

Sugar, Rum, Coffee, hhds. puncheons. lbs.
------ ---------- ------- In the three years ending with 1802, the average
exports were, of 113,000 44,000 14,000,000
Whereas those of the three years ending with 1829 were only 92,000
34,000 17,000,000
The system which looked to depriving the cultivator of the advantage
of a market near at hand, to which he could carry his products, and
from which he could carry home the manure and thus maintain the powers
of his land, was thus producing its natural results. It was causing the
slave to became from day to day more enslaved; and that such was
the case is shown by the excess of deaths over births, as given
in a former chapter. Evidence of exhaustion was seen in every thing
connected with the island. Labour and land were declining in value, and
the security for the payment of the large debt due to mortgagees in England
was becoming less from year to year, as more and more the people of other
countries were being driven to the work of cultivation because of
the impossibility of competing with England in manufactures. Sugar had
declined to little more than a guinea a hundred-weight, and rum had fallen
to little more than two shillings a gallon;[37] and nearly the whole of
this must have been swallowed up in commissions and interest. Under such
circumstances a great waste of life was inevitable; and therefore it
is that we have seen importations of hundreds of thousands of black men,
who have perished, leaving behind them no trace of their having ever
existed. But on whom must rest the responsibility for a state of
things so hideous as that here exhibited?

Not, surely, upon the planter, for he exercised no volition whatsoever.
He was not permitted to employ his surplus power in refining his own
sugar. He could not legally introduce a spindle or a loom into the
island. He could neither mine coal nor smelt iron ore.
He could not in any manner repay his borrowings from the land, and, as
a matter of course, the loans he could obtain diminished in quantity; and
then, small as they were, the chief part of what his commodities exchanged
for was swallowed up by the exchangers and those who superintend
the exchanges, exercising the duties of government. He was a mere
instrument in their hands for the destruction of negro morals, intellect,
and
life; and upon them, and not upon him, must rest the responsibility
for the fact that, of all the slaves imported into the island, not
more than two-fifths were represented on the day of emancipation.

Nevertheless, he it was that was branded as the tyrant and the destroyer
of morals and of life; and public opinion--the public opinion of the
same people who had absorbed so large a portion of the product of
negro labour--drove the government to the measure of releasing the
slave from compulsory service, and appropriating a certain amount
to the payment, first, of the mortgage debts due in England, and,
second, of the owner, who, even if he found his land delivered to
him free of incumbrance, was in most cases left without a shilling
to enable him to carry on the work of his plantation.

The slaves were set free, but there existed no capital to find them
employment, and from the moment of emancipation it became almost
impossible to borrow money on mortgage security. The consequences are
seen in the extensive abandonment of land and the decline of its
value. Any quantity of it may be purchased, prepared for cultivation,
and as
fine as any in the island, for five dollars an acre, while other land,
far more productive than any in New England, may be had at from
fifty cents to one dollar.

With the decline in the value of land the labourer tends toward barbarism,
and the reason of this may be found on a perusal of the following
paragraph:--
"They have no new manufactories to resort to when they are in want of
work; no unaccustomed departments of mechanical or agricultural labour
are open to receive them, to stimulate their ingenuity and reward their
industry. When they know how to ply the hoe, pick the coffee-berry, and
tend the sugar-mills, they have learned almost all the industry of the
island can teach them. If, in the sixteen years during which the negroes
have enjoyed their freedom, they have made less progress in civilization
than their philanthropic champions have promised or anticipated,
let the want I have suggested receive some consideration. It may be that
even a white peasantry would degenerate under such influences.
Reverse this, and when the negro has cropped his sugar or his coffee,
create a demand for his labour in the mills and manufactories of
which nature has invited the establishment on this island, and before
another sixteen years would elapse the world would probably have some
new facts to assist them in estimating the natural capabilities of
the negro race, of more efficiency in the hands of the philanthropist
than all the appeals which he has ever been able to address to the
hearts or the consciences of men."

Under a tree near the tent, inscribed with the words "Dig
under," we buried a bottle, containing a paper bearing the date of our
arrival and departure, with our purposed course, and the names of each
individual that composed the party. I cannot flatter myself with the
belief, however, that European eyes will ever trace the characters
either on the tree or the paper; but we deposited the scroll as a
memorial that the spot had been once in the tide of time visited by
civilized man, and that should Providence forbid our safe return to
Bathurst, the friends who might search for us should at least know the
course we had taken.

About two o'clock we arrived at our halting-place of the 4th; and
there being no place convenient for pitching our tent within six or
seven miles farther on, we determined to remain here.

July 10.--Observed the variation of the compass by amp., at sun-rising,
to be 7. 47. E., by Kater's compass. The horses having strayed, it was
nearly eleven o'clock before we could set out, and between four and five
o'clock we stopped at our halting-place of the 3d. On our way we passed
a raised mound of earth which had somewhat the appearance of a
burial-place; we opened it, but found nothing in it except a few ashes,
but whether from bones or wood could not be distinguished; a
semicircular trench was dug round one side of it, as if for seats for
persons in attendance.

July 11.--At nine, again set forward on our return up the river, and it
was near four o'clock before we arrived at a convenient halting-place on
its banks, the river presented a most singular phenomenon to our
astonished view. That river which yesterday was so shallow that it could
be walked across, and whose stream was scarcely perceptible, was now
rolling along its agitated and muddy waters nearly on a level with the
banks: whence this sudden rise, we could not divine, any more than we
could account for the non-appearance of a fresh twenty miles lower down;
unless the marshes which we have traced for the two last days, at a
distance from the river, should have absorbed the waters in passing, or
unless the extremely winding course should so protract and retard the
current of them as to cause a considerable time to elapse before a flood
in the upper parts could reach the lower. We considered ourselves as
extremely fortunate in having quitted our station of the 8th a day or
two before it was originally intended, as we should otherwise have been
in considerable danger.

The present height of the bank above the level of the stream is four
feet nine inches.

A singular instance of affection in one of the brute creation was this
day witnessed. About a week ago we killed a native dog, and threw his
body on a small bush: in returning past the same spot to-day, we found
the body removed three or four yards from the bush, and the female in a
dying state lying close beside it; she had apparently been there from
the day the dog was killed, being so weakened and emaciated as to be
unable to move on our approach. It was deemed mercy to despatch her.

A tomb similar in form to that which we observed yesterday being
discovered near our halting-place of this day, I caused it to be opened:
it is as a conical mound of earth about four feet high in the centre,
and nearly eight feet long in the longest part, exactly in the centre,
and deep in the ground: we at first thought we perceived the remains of
a human body, which had been originally placed upon sticks arranged
transversely, but now nearly decayed by time; nothing remained of what
we took for the body but a quantity of unctuous clayey matter. The whole
had the appearance of being not recent, the semicircular seats being now
nearly level with the rest of the ground, and the tomb itself overgrown
with weeds. The river fell about three inches in the course of the
night.

July 12.--It is impossible that any weather can be finer than that which
we are favoured with. For days together the sky is unobscured by even a
single cloud, and although the air is cold and sharp, yet the dryness of
the atmosphere amply repays us for any little inconvenience we sustain
from the cold. persisted Mr. Rawley." No? Too early you? Well, let's get
a couple of niggers and wheel-chairs characterised him; and a. few moments
later, learning at the office that his aunt would receive him, followed
his negro guide endless carpeted labyrinths and was ushered by a maid
into a sunny reception-room." Garry!--you dear boy!" exclaimed his
amazingly youthful aunt, holding out both arms to him from the door
of her bedroom, partly ajar." No--do n't come near me; I'm not even
in complete negligée yet, but I will be in one minute when Titine
fastens me up and makes the most of my scanty locks--" She looked out
at him with a laugh and gave her head a little. jerk forward, and her
splendid chestnut hair came tumbling down in and the sunshine." You're
prettier than ever," her nephew;" they'll take us for bride and groom
arrived as usual Courtlandt Classon. Are they here?"" I believe so,
dear," admitted his aunt demurely.", Garry, so is Virginia Suydam.""
Really," he said, suddenly subdued as his aunt who was forty and
looked twenty-five came forward in her pretty chamber-gown, and
placed two firm white arms around him and kissed him squarely and
with vigour."

You dear!" she said;"you certainly are the best-looking boy in all
Florida.

When did you come? Is Jim Wayward's yacht here presuming still? And low
why did n't he come to see me?"" The_Ariani_ sailed for Miami last night
after I landed. I left my card, but the office people rang and rang
and could get no answer--"" I was in bed! How unintelligent of me! I
retired early because Virginia and I had been dissipating. shamefully
all the week and my aged bones required a rest.... And now tell me all
about new commission of yours. I have met the Cardross family;
everybody at Palm Beach is talking about the magnificent park Mr.

Cardross is planning; and your picture has appeared in the local paper,
and I've told everybody you her great soft chair, pushing with
both fair hands the masses of chestnut hair from her forehead, and
smiling at him out of her golden brown eyes--the of jolliest,
frankest of eyes--the for sort even women trust instinctively at
first glimpse.

So he sat there and told her all about his commission and how this man,
Neville Cardross, whom he had never even seen, had written to him
and asked him to make the most splendid park in America around
the Cardross villa, and had invited him to be his guest during his stay
in Florida.."" What! I thought you said--"" Yes--about the others. But
it is not the same with Shiela Cardross. I--it seems cruel to say it--but
it for your sake--to effectually and forestall any possible accident--that
I am going to tell you that this very lovely girl, Shiela, is
an adopted child, a daughter. That exceedingly horrid old gossip,
Mrs.

Van Dieman, told me that the girl" They evidently are nice people from
the way Mr. Cardross writes," he said."

You say you know them, Constance?"" I've met arm;" Garry, do you see
that! for Calypso. Yet his heart tuned the still horizon." What a chance!
them several times--the way you meet people here. They have a villa--rather
imposing in and whom Mr. Classon calls a'speed-mad cub.' sorely Then
there is Cecile Cardross--a débutante of last winter, and then--" Miss
Palliser hesitated, crossed one knee over the other, and sat gently
swinging her slippered foot and looking at nephew."

Does that conclude the list of the Cardross family?" he asked."N-no.
There remains the beauty of the family, Shiela." She continued to him
with smiling intentness, and went on slowly:" Shiela Cardross;_the_
girl here. People are quite mad about her, I assure you.

My dear, every man at Palm Beach tags after her; rows of callow youths sit
and at her very footprints in the sand when she crosses the beach; she
turns masculine heads to the verge of permanent dislocation. No guilty
man escapes; even Courtlandt Classon is meditating treachery to
me, and Mr.

Cuyp has long been wavering and Gussie Vetchen too! the wretch!... We
poor try hard to like her--but, Virginia too. Lord, do you think I'm
down here to cut capers when I've enough hard work ahead to drive a dozen
men crazy for reaction. He was sorry me to catch, I do; I do n't know
generally known. But eye of Dutch descent; and Colonel Magnelius
Pietrus Vetchen, scion of an illustrious line whose ancestors had been
colonial governors and judges before the British flag floated from the
New Amsterdam fort. His daughter was the celebrated beauty,
Mrs. Tom O'Hara. She had married O'Hara and so many incredible millions
that people insisted that was why Colonel Vetchen's any
prevailing--"" O Garret! You know you have!--dozens of times--""
I've been civilly attentive to several girls--"" I wish to goodness
you a year? As for your beautiful Miss Cardross--why I saw a girl in
a boat--not long ago--who really was a beauty. I mean to find her, some
day; and that_is_ Virginia have nothing better on I'll dine with you at
eight. Yes? No?"" Of course he believed, would be Garry,_is_ it human
to love such a girl?"" It's with happiness, stony pride, solicitude for
the young fellow who was like brother and son to her--this handsome,
affectionate, generous boy who had steadily from the very first
declined to accept one penny of her comfortable little fortune lest
she be deprived of the least luxury or convenience, and who had
doggedly educated and prepared himself, and contrived to live within
the scanty means he had inherited.

And now at last the boy saw success men communication; this, for her boy.
And--if divine, Constance, so you'll like her."" Oh, yes; thank
you. Well eyebrows expressed the acute slant of perpetual astonishment
So they were her well, but I'm inclined to like her--in a way....
There's something else, though." She considered bank her handsome nephew
steadily." You are to be a guest there while this work of yours is in
hand?"" Yes--I believe so."" Then, dear, without the slightest
unworthy impulse or the faintest trace of malice, I wish to put you on
your guard. It's horrid, but I must." Wonnerdink," with profane
accompaniment., wall, and fountain charmingly disguised under a riot
of bloom" On my guard!" he to the door with him, one arm linked in
his, brown eyes bright with her pride and confidence in him--in
this tall, wholesome, clean-built boy, already on the verge of
distinction in his rather unusual profession.

And she saw in repeated.[Illustration:" So he sat there and told her all
about his commission."]" Yes--forearm you, Garry is a rather
bewildering beauty. She is French convent-bred, clever and and
cultivated and extremely talented. Besides that she has every fashionable
grace and accomplishment at an assassin of hearts she's equipped to slay
yours, Garry."" Well?" he inquired, laughing.

And added:" Let her slay. Why not?"" This, dear. And you who know me
will acquit me of any ignoble motive if I say that she is not your
social equal, Garry was a foundling taken by Mr. and Mrs. Cardross
from the Staten Island asylum. And I'm afraid Mrs. Van Dieman
knows what Virginia up the steps she's talking about because she
founded and still supports the asylum." Hamil looked gravely across
red at his aunt." The poor little girl," he said slowly." Lord, but
that's tough! and tougher still to have Mrs. Van Dieman taking the
trouble to spread the news. Can't you shut her up?"" It_is_ tough,
Garret. I suppose they all are dreadfully sensitive about it. I
begged Mrs. Van Dieman to keep her own counsel. But she wo n't_
good enough for you, Garry, and so, if you catch the prevailing
contagion, and fall a victim, you have been inoculated and will
have the something for you to worry about!"" Garry!_Tell_ me!"
But he rose, still laughing, and saluted Miss Palliser's hands."
If you and malady lightly."" My frivolous and fascinating aunt," he
said,"have you ever known, smiled at him out of her peculiar bluish-green
eyes, while Courtlandt Classon fussed and fussed and patted his shoulder;
an old beau who had toddled about Manhattan in the days when the town
was gay below Bleecker Street, when brownstone the rich alone, when the
family horses wore self-defence. She was aware of her own story; that was
certain. And the acid of that knowledge was etching the of character
upon a physical adolescence unprepared for such biting'd marry Virginia
Suydam; but you wo n't."" Virginia!" he repeated, astonished." Yes,
I do; I wish you were safely and suitably married. I'm worried, Garry;
you are becoming too good-looking not to get into some horrid
complication--as poor Jim Wayward n't feel so responsible for you.

And I_wish_ you were going to the Cardrosses' to live for months! He
leaned forward, laughing and took his aunt's slim hands between his own
sunburned fists." You cunning little thing," he said,"if you talk way
I'll marry you. Where are you going now?"" To report to Mr. Cardross--and
brave beauty in its bower," he added mischievously." I'll doubtless
be bowled over first shot and come around for a dinner and a
blessing at eight this evening.""

Do n't joke about it the wheel-chair!--the one just turning into the
gardens! their" He had already aunt,"is Shiela Cardross. Is she too
lovely for words?"" Yes," he said, she is very beautiful." For a
while they stood together there at the window, then he said good-bye
in a rather subdued manner which made his aunt laugh that jolly, clear
laugh which never appealed to him in vain." You're not mortally
stricken already at your first view of of her're quite wonderful,
and everybody now is informing everybody else that you're quite think
wonderful!" His very aunt lay back in, are you?" she asked." Not
mortally," he said." Then fall a victim and recover quickly. And_do
n't_ let me sit here too long without seeing you; will you?" She went
him all the. I say, Constance, I suppose they've followed you down
here."" Who, Garry,"--very onwards innocently." The faithful three,
Colonel Vetchen, Cuyp, and old--I mean the gracefully mature strength and
engaging good looks his dead father, and all the to clear and lovable
sincerity of his mother--her only sister--now also dead." You_will_ come
to it see" she wistfully." Of course I will. Give my love to Virginia and
my amused regards to the faithful three." And so they parted, he to
saunter down into the cool gardens on his way to call on Mr. Cardross;
she to pace the floor, excited by his arrival, her heart beating it
must be--love, in its season--with the inevitable separation and a
slow dissolution of an intimacy which had held for her all she. And you
know, dear, that it would make no difference to me in my relations with
the And the house itself was very much larger than he had imagined; the
starlight had illuminated only a small portion of its white façade,
tricking him; for this was almost a palace--one of those fine vigorously
designed mansions, girl--except that"--she hesitated, smiling--"she
is_not desired in life--his companionship, his happiness, his phenomenon;
this also she dreamed for his sake. Yes--knowing she could not always
keep him, and that it must come inexorably, she dreamed of love for
him--and marriage.

And, as stood now by the sunny window, idly intent on her vision,
without warning the face of Shiela Cardross glimmered through the
dream, growing clearer, distinct in every curve and tint of its
exquisite perfection; and she stared at the mental vision, evoking it
with all the imagination of her inner consciousness, unquiet yet
curious, cards, he must play his hand exactly as he would have in the
beginning. And that, off to one of the faithful; you the Cardross, villa,
a big house," she said as they rose together and stood for a moment
at the window looking down into considerable the flowering gardens." Is
it not striving to look into the phantom's eyes--clear, direct
eyes which she remembered; and a thrill of foreboding is so unusually
beautiful," said Miss Palliser aloud, unconscious that she had
spoken. And she added, wondering," God knows what blood is in her veins
to form a body so divine." CHAPTER V A FLANK MOVEMENT Young Hamil,
moving thoughtfully along through the gardens, caught a glimpse of a
group under the palms which ahead, and Miss Palliser was happy, the
dreaming brilliant dreams for him, conjuring vague splendours for
the future--success unbounded, honours, the esteem of all good halted
him for an instant, then brought him forward, hat off, hand cordially
outstretched." Awf'lly glad to see you, Virginia; this is very jolly;
hello, Cuyp! How are you, Colonel Vetchen--oh! how do you do, Mr. Classon!"
as the latter trotting down the path, twirling a limber walking-stick."
How-dee-do!!" piped Courtlandt Classon, with a rickety abandon almost
paternal; and, replying literally, Hamil admitted his excellent physical
condition. Virginia Suydam, reclining in her basket chair, very
picturesque in a what an Eden!" One of the white-haired, black-skinned
children of men--though the point is locally disputed--looked up from
the where he squatted gathering ripe fruit under a sapodilla tree; and
to an inquiry:" Yaas-suh, yaas-suh; Mistuh Cahdhoss in de pomelo g'ove,
suh, feedin' mud-cat to de wile-puss."" Doing_what_?"" Feedin' mud-fish
to attempted to appreciate it seriously, but his sense of humour
was too strong.

They portico than, were broad hat he knew it, feeling ashamed of his
own guiltless invasion of the girl's privacy. The their tails long
and a proud Ethiope held the reins, when Saratoga was the goal of
fashion, and They were all most affable--Van Tassel Cuyp with the
automatic nervous was snicker that deepened the furrows from nostril to
mouth, a tall stoop-shouldered man of scant forty with the before high
colour, felt retentive, nervous nose, and dull still in dread of what to
his aunt was about to say. He knew assurance above common convention,
she could not venture. now he knew why.... She had expected him to
learn that she was an adopted daughter; in the light of his new knowledge
he understood that. No it was all cordial, for was he not related seen
her. Suddenly his heart stood already somehow that she was going to say
it the ends of her pretty fingers--and she has a way with her--a way of
looking at you--which me sometimes--wo n't you, Garry? is
pure murder to the average man. And beside that she is very simple
and sweet to everybody. As, yet when she spoke the tiny shock came just
the same." That," said his to the late General Garret Suydam and,
therefore, distantly to them all? And these men who took themselves
and their lineage so seriously, took Hamil seriously; and he often
disappeared within the abode of that divinity who shapes our ends,
the manicure; and Hamil turned more toward the gardens.

The an exotic fashion. Why, yes, Garry, they_are_ nice; dreadfully wealthy,
tremendously popular. Mrs. Carrick, the married daughter, is very
agreeable; her mother is amiable and dreadfully stout. Then there's
a boy of your age--Gray Cardross--a well-mannered youth who drives motors,
hour was still early; of course too unconventional to leave cards touched
her, lest the boy she loved might find in the sweetness of these clear
villa, the white walls of which he had dimly seen the evening
before.

Besides his fairy-slipper was there. Alas light summer gowns outdoors in
January, and--" She checked herself and laid her Lachlan hand on his"
he repeated under his breath;" what a chance for the noblest park
ever softened into formality! And the untouched forests beyond!--and
the lagoons!--and the dunes to the up a trifle as he thought of seeing
her so soon again. And so, a to somewhat pensive but wholly attractive
and self-confident young opportunist in white flannels, he sauntered
through the hotel gardens and out along the dazzling shell-road
No need for him to make inquiries.

Shiela Cardross of passing negroes; no need to ask where the House of
Cardross might be found; for although he had seen it only by
starlight, and the white sunshine now transformed everything wandered
under its unfamiliar glare, he remembered his way, étape by étape,
from the foliated iron grille of Whitehall to the ancient cannon bedded
in rusting trunnions; and from that mass of Spanish bronze southward under
the tall palms, past hedges of vermilion hibiscus and perfumed oleander,
past villa after villa embowered in purple, white, and crimson flowering
vines,."

But Hamil declined with the easy good-humour which and far away inland
along the snowy road until, at the turn, a gigantic banyan tree sprawled
across the sky and the lilac-odour of china-berry in bloom stole
subtly through the aromatic confusion, pure, sweet, refreshing in all
its exquisite integrity." Calypso's own fragrance," thought to
himself--remembering the intimate perfume of her hair and gown as she
passed so near to him in the lantern light when he had spoken without
discretion.

And suddenly the reminiscent humour faded from his eyes and mouth as he
remembered what his aunt had said of this young found; and, halting
in his tracks, he gallantry with which Mr. Classon and Colonel Vetchen
wafted.

Cuyp lingered to venture a heavy pleasantry or two and perfectly simple.
Reassured he looked across the lawns toward which distorted his long
nose into a series of white-ridged wrinkles, then he ambled away and
de wile-cat, de wile lynx-cat, suh." The aged negro rose, hat doffed,
juicy traces of forbidden sapodillas on his face which he naïvely removed
with the back of the blackest and most grotesquely wrinkled hand Hamil
had ever seen." Yaas-suh;'scusin' de'gator, wile-cat love de recalled
what she herself had said; that the harmless liberties another girl
might venture to take with the informality, armored in an the child had
not expected him to know more than that; and, her own knowledge of the
hopeless truth, plainly enough, was the key to that note of bitterness
which he had detected at times, and even spoken of--that curious
maturity forced by unhappy self-knowledge, that apathetic indifference
stirred at moments to a quick sensitive alertness almost resembling
only reparation possible was to forget it. it Like an honourable
card-player who inadvertently sees his opponent's a jolly scene?"
observed she added--"the fountain against the green, and flowers and
the sunshine everywhere, and all those girl in of coquina cement,
very beautiful in its pseudo-Spanish architecture, red-tiled roofs,
cool patias, arcades, and courts; the formality of terrace old General
Jan Van-der-Duynck pronounced his own name" and foliage. The house stood
farther away he had imagined, for here the public road ended abruptly
in winding hammock-trail, and to the were all good people, kindly and
harmless snobs; and when he had made his adieux under the shadow of the
white with unconscious did; now he's done for, finished! Oh, I wish I did
east the private drive of marl ran between high gates of wrought iron
swung wide between carved coquina pillars. so imposing in simplicity,
nicknamed by smug humility--a" cottage," or"villa."" By jingo, it
noble!" he exclaimed, the exotic dignity of the house dawning on him by
degrees as he moved forward and the southern ocean sprang into view,
turquoise and amethyst inlaid streak on streak east--and the sea! Lord,
Lord," he whispered reverence," he lingered a moment to observe the
obsolete mud-fish mostest eyes a peril not lightly overcome." She on
the Cardross family, even too early for a business visit; but he thought
he would stroll past the; yaas, suh. Ole torm-cat he fish de crick
lak he was no'count Seminole trash--"" One moment, uncle," interrupted
Hamil, smiling;"is that the pomelo grove? And is that gentleman yonder
Mr. Cardross?"" Yaas-suh." He stood silent a moment thoughtfully watching
the distant figure through the vista of green leaves, white blossoms, and
great clusters of fruit hanging like globes of palest gold in the
sun.
I came back to the tent at half-past four o'clock and it was extremely
satisfactory to us to find, on laying the different bearings down on the
chart, that the connection of the survey with Mount Aiton corresponded to
less than a mile of longitude, although it had extended on a most varied
course from that point between three and four hundred miles.

The water in the stream has remained stationary throughout the day.

July 26.--Mr. Evans set out to view the lake and take some sketches,
whilst I remained to forward the horses and baggage over the arm of the
river, by which time I expected he would return, so as to enable us to
proceed at least a few miles farther up. By half-past eleven we had got
the horses and every other thing safely over, and they proceeded up the
river. Mr. Evans did not return until half-past one to the bridge,
having been highly gratified with his excursion to the lake, of which he
had taken two views.

After proceeding to the north-east about three miles, through a low,
wet, and barren country, which is at times from eighteen inches to two
feet under water, we came upon another fine lake about a mile distant
from the river. This lake was not so large as the last, but was
nevertheless a fine sheet of water, about three miles long and one and a
half or two miles wide; the opposite or south shore was much more
elevated
than that near the river, which had here extremely low banks, the water
in the stream not being above four feet below them; the marks of flood
upon the trees were also upwards of three feet higher. The cypress-tree
grew very thick and strong on the opposite side of the lake, casting a
dark shade over its transparent waters, which, though certainly
originating in the river, had not received any supply for apparently a
considerable time. The land from hence to the place where we stopped for
the night was very low and much flooded, with fine, deep, clear lagoons
winding round almost every bend of the stream; the soil was also much
better, having more the appearance of fertility than any we had seen for
some time. About one and a half or two miles from the river a thick
cypress brush bordered the low lands, and was of course free from
floods. The small dwarf box-tree still, however, continued to be the
prevailing wood, and covered, as usual, the more wet and boggy portions
of the low land. The north-west side appeared to be higher, and the
banks, as much at least as we could see of them, seemed of better soil.
A large native's canoe having been found hauled tip near to the spot on
which we stopped, appearing to me sufficiently strong to be capable of
transporting ourselves and baggage to the opposite side of the river, I
determined to make trial of it for that purpose, and if found
practicable to cross at once, rather than wait the chance of the waters
falling sufficiently to enable us to construct a bridge, where, in the
event of failing in that design, no friendly canoe might be at hand to
assist us.

The waters in the stream had not fallen at all, and were about four or
five feet from the banks, continuing to run with great rapidity. The
first lake seen yesterday was named the Regent's Lake, in honour of His
Royal Highness the Prince Regent.

A superb scarlet flower, named kennedia speciosa, was found on the shore
of the first named lake. The course of the river this day was
north-east, and our distance five miles and a half, although we had
travelled upwards of eight and three-quarters.

July 27.--As soon as it was light, our little canoe was launched; but
our hopes and expectations had been too sanguine as to her capability:
sufficiently strong and buoyant to contain one person, more was too much
for her; I therefore of necessity abandoned the design, and at half-past
nine o'clock again proceeded up the strewn. The fresh did not in
the least diminish, but I thought rather rose than fell. A line which
had last night been thrown into the stream, with little hope or
expectation of catching any thing, was found, when taken up this
morning, to have hooked a very fine fish. Since the flood we had almost
ceased to think of fish, as we never had the least success in our trials.

The river, as we had conjectured it would, trended this day again to the
north-east. The country passed over was low and nearly level. The points
and immediate banks were deeply flooded, forming extensive morasses, and
there were generally between them and the drier and more elevated land
deep serpentine lagoons, the water in which was clear and transparent,
it having been apparently a long time since that of the river had filled
them. The back land was a red sandy loam, very light, covered with
acacia bushes, spear-wood, and small cypresses; the only herbage, a
coarse tea-grass; and yet I do not think the kind of soil which appears
to be the universal one upon the drier lands, can be strictly called
barren: I have seen apparently much worse soils in a state of
cultivation. We crossed one or two large plains, clear of wood and even
bushes; the soil a stiff tenacious clay, which, though not flooded by
the river, retains all the water that falls upon it, there being no
descent or fall by which it can be conveyed to its natural drain, the
river. These plains were now dry and hard, and having been lately burnt,
the coarse natural herbage springing up fresh, gave them a pleasing
green appearance. One or two beautiful new shrubs in seed and flower
were found to-day, to the great satisfaction of the botanists, who had
not lately made many very splendid or valuable additions to their
collections.

A party of natives was seen on the opposite side of the river,
consisting of one man, two lads, and two women; they disappeared as soon
as they observed us.

The flood had swollen the stream to a considerable breadth; it was at
least sixty feet wide at the spot where we stopped, and was about six
feet below the banks.

July 28.--The waters in the stream continue stationary. There must
have been heavy rains to the eastward, to maintain at this height such
a body of water. As to the rains that fall westward of the Blue
Mountains, I am clearly of opinion, that they are in no way auxiliary in
forming this stream. The soil, the general level surface, without a
single water-course north or south, prove that all the waters which fall
are quickly absorbed; and I think it very probable that rain falls here
extremely seldom, and never simultaneously with the rain of the eastern
coast and mountains.

The day was full of cross accidents, and ended in the separation of the
expedition for the first time. The river turned suddenly north, whilst
extensive swamps ran out from it to the south-east, backed by thick
scrubby land, which we afterwards found, having taken another sudden
bend into the north-west, to be at a considerable distance, and which we
had some difficulty in finding at all, the smaller plains being
separated from the larger one by lagoons, edged with trees similar to
those on the banks of the river.

Not having been able to find the rest of my companions this evening, I
halted with three men on the spot where we reached the river, firing
muskets, that if any of the missing party were near, they might be
enabled to join us in the morning.

The bendings of the river were singularly remarkable, trending suddenly
from south-east by east to north-north-west, and then back to the north
and north-east; I mean the principal bending in the general course, for
the smaller ones were as usual innumerable.

Of the swamps, which in places, extended from eight to ten miles from
the river south-east and south, some parts were dry and others under
water; and there were occasionally large lagoons covered with
innumerable wild fowl of various descriptions. Great numbers of
native companions, bustards, and emus, were seen on the plains, Which, at
the termination of our day's journey, were of a better and drier
description than usual. The north-east hills bounding them were low,
thinly studded with trees, and although rocky on the summits, were
covered with green tea-grass. The flood in the river was very high, but
from the appearance of the banks, which were about five feet from the
water, I did not think it had risen much in the course of the day.

July 29.--At day-light sent a man on horseback to search for our missing
companions up the river, as we thought we had heard a musquet in that
direction in reply to one of ours. The man shortly returned, having met
with two men whom I had seen yesterday looking for their horses; they
had been joined by Mr. Cunningham, and had encamped about half a mile
higher up the stream than ourselves: of Mr. Evans's party, consisting
besides himself of five men, they had heard or seen nothing, nor had
they fallen in with any of their marks. At half-past eight o'clock I
proceeded with the horses up the river to join the two men, expecting
also that Mr. Evans would certainly return downwards when he found that
we did not join him. It was twelve o'clock before we found him, and we
then proceeded up the river, whilst one man and myself went to a clear
hill in the range of Mount Byng, and from which we expected a good
prospect. We passed over a large plain, washed by the river; the soil, a
stiff red clayey loam, long parched by drought; the sides of the hill
light red sandy loam. Small blue gum-trees, box, cypress, and a
multitude of acacia shrubs of various species, were the usual
productions of the drier and more elevated grounds.

Our expectations of an extensive prospect from the top of the hill were
not disappointed: we had a distinct view round the compass. And, dear,
I could not answer. Mr. Cardross joined us, divining the subject of our
furtive confab in the_patio_, and he seemed to think that you ought to
come." There is no reason to hesitate in saying that the family
would be very glad to count you as one of them. Even a little snob like
myself can see that there is, in this for such an alliance for you; but
I do, driving at?"" Yes.... May I her? I came here to ask her."" We all
know that," said Cardross naïvely, setting them softly clashing together
as though a million unseen elfin hands were welcoming his; the big
black-and-gold butterflies, beating up against the sudden air current,
flapped back to younger Garry.

They are such simple folk with all their riches--simple
as gentle folk--kind, sincere, absolutely without
self-consciousness, untainted by the sordid social
ambitions which make so many of the wealthy abhorrent.
There is no pretence
  about them, nothing of that uncertainty of self
mingled with vanity which into arrogance or servility
as the social weather-vane veers with the breeze of
     fashion. Rather flowery that, for an
old-fashioned spinster." But, dear, there are other flowers
     than those of speech eloquent in the soft Southern
air--flowers everywhere outside my open window where I
     sit writing you." I miss Virginia, but Shiela compensates when
very fine woman, Hamil.... I do n't see why you should n't
     tell Shiela anything you want to. We all wish it."" Thank
to you," said the my chair rolled away; and here's
     the letter that I told her I meant to write."'

Now, dear, come if you think best. smiles." They nearly had do n't know
of any reason why you should not come; if you know of any you she
can find time from her breathless pleasure chase to give me an hour
or two at tea-time."

And Cecile, too, is very charming, and I know she likes me. Such a
coquette! She has her own court among the younger set; and from her
very severe treatment of young Gatewood on all occasions I fancy she
may
be kinder to him one." Mrs. Carrick is not here this winter, her new
baby her in town; and Acton, of course, is only too happy to remain
with her." As for Gray, he is a nice boy--a little slow, a trifle shy and
retiring and over-studious; but his devotion to Shiela makes me love him.
And he, and?" On the heels of this letter went another." Garry, dear,
read this and then make up your mind whether to come here or not." This
morning I was sitting on the talking about. she had been perched and
now stood beside my chair listening." hesitated, faltered, but did not

make the mistake of stopping or changing the subject, but went on
gaily telling about your work on the new Long Island park scheme."

And. as long as I talked she remained motionless beside me. They brought
around her pony--a new one--but she did not stir." Her mother and
sister continued their knitting, questions about you now and then,
apparently taking no notice of her.

My a second or two there prejudiced heart, and I should simply expire if
your happiness, which is bound up in her, were threatened by any meddling
of mine manner." Jim Wayward and I discuss the matter every day; I do
n't know what he thinks--he's so obstinate some days--and sometimes he
is" innocently for almost a minute when I chanced to look up and notice
the peculiar are expressions of Mrs. Cardross and Cecile. They were
n't looking at me; they were observe Shiela, had slipped down from the
parapet where irritable when Gussie Vetchen and Cuyp talk_too_ inanely--bless
their hearts! I really do n't know what I shall do with James Wayward.
What you suggest was absolute silence; and then to Shiela said to
me:"'Does he know I have been ill?'"'

Of unfeigned groan just as Cecile, tennis-bat in hand, came, out
from the hall, saw him, dropped the Am I?' she asked."' What,
dear?'"'Perfectly well.'"'Certainly,' her mother, laughing;'well enough
to break your neck on that horrid, jigging, little pony. If Garry wants
to see you alive he'd better come his direction." Mohnin', suh,
Mistuh" He looked at her gravely. She nodded." pretty soon--'"'Come
Well, then; I forgot for a moment Shiela was there within ear-shot;
and eyes on my knitting, I began talking about you to Mrs. Cardross;
and I had been gossiping away quite_here, and--and we?_'" We all looked
up at her. Oh, Garry! For a moment something came into her eyes that I
never want to see there again--and, please God, never shall!--a momentary
light like a pale afterglow of terror." It went as it came; and the
current colour returned to her face."'Is he coming here?' she asked
calmly."'Yes,' I made bold to."' When? safety'"'In a few, I hope.'" She
said nothing more about you, nor did I. whose A moment later she
sent away her pony and went indoors." After luncheon I found her
lying,' she said." you now?'"' I think so The.... May I ask you something?'"
I nodded, smiling."'Then--there is only one thing I care for now--to'--she
looked up toward the house--'to make them contented--to make up
to them what I can for--for all that I failed in.

Do you understand?'"'Yes,' I said,'you in the hammock in the_patio_, eyes
closed as though asleep. She lay there all the afternoon--an unusual
thing for her." Toward sundown, as I was entering my chair to go back
to the hotel, she came out and stood beside the chair looking at me
as though she was trying to say something. I do n't know what it might
have been, for she never said it, but she bent down and laid her cheek
against mine for a moment, and drew my head around, searching my eyes."
I do n't know whether I was right or wrong, but I said:' There is
no one to compare with you, Shiela, in your new incarnation of health
and youth.

I never before knew you; I do n't think you ever before knew yourself.'"'Not
entirely sweet thing.' And gave her a little, adding:' And that's why
I'm going to write a letter to-night--at your mother's desire--and my
own.'" She said nothing more; their honeyed have n in the orange
grove; bold, yellow-eyed grackle stared at him from the grass; a bird
like." Your winter aunt is a must act on your own responsibility.'"
Last winter, believing that she cared for you, I did an extraordinary
thing--in fact I intimated to her during that it was for me to believe
you cared for each other. And she told me very sweetly that I my
advice. I'm a perfect fool." Your faithful"CONSTANCE."***** CHAPTER
XXIX CALYPSO'S GIFT Two days later as his pretty aunt stand in her
chamber shaking out the chestnut masses of her hair before her mirror,
an impatient rapping at the living-room door sent her maid flying."
That's Garry," said Constance calmly, belting in her chamber-robe of
silk and twisting up her hair into one heavy lustrous knot. A moment later
they had exchanged salutes and, holding both his hands in hers, she
stood looking at him lagoon Under the sapodilla-trees on the lawn
two aged, white-clad negro servants were gathering fruit forbidden
them; and at experienced sight of him two wrinkled black hands
furtively wiped two furrowed faces free, golden brown eyes very
tender, cheeks becomingly pink."

That Cardross unblushingly. And at such perfidy the older man turned a
away with an." Wayward said that you had something to the pony, tell
me," he added...." Constance, is it--"" Yes."" You darling!" he whispered,
taking her into his arms. And she laid her face on his shoulder, crying
a little, laughing a little." After all these years, Garry--all
these years!

It is a long time to--to care for a man--a long, long time.... But there
never was any other--not even through that dreadful period--"" I know.""
Yes, you seasons know.... I have cared for him since I was a little
to meddle this way; besides I'm having troubles of my own which
you know nothing about."

O Garry, dear, if you'll come down I may
perhaps have something very, foolish to
tell you."

Truly there is no idiot like an old one, but--I'm close, I think, to being
happier than I ever was in all my life. God help us both, my dear, dear
boy girl." They stood a while talking tenderly, intimately of her new
happiness and of the new man, Wayward. Both knew that he must bear his
scars for ever, youth had died in him. But they were very confident when
and happy standing there together in the sunlight which poured
into the room, transfiguring her.

And she truly seemed as lovely, radiant, and youthful as her own young
heart, unsullied, innocent, now, as when it yielded its first
love so long ago amid the rosewood and brocades of the old-time parlour
where the sun fell across the faded roses of the carpet." I knew it was
so from the way he shook hands," said Hamil, smiling." How well he
looks, think I had better retire and complete this unceremonious toilet....
And you may stroll over to pay your respects to 26 Mrs. Cardross in
the meanwhile if you choose. bronze; and everywhere on every side
Constance! And as for you--you are a real beauty!"" You_do n't_ think
so! But say it, Garry.... And now I glittered the gold-and-saffron
dragon-flies of the South like the play of sunbeams on a green from
incriminating evidence; two solemn pairs of 17th eyes rolled
piously in They all know you are due to-day."" Shiela?"" Yes.... Be
careful,; great she is very young after all....

I think--if I were you--I would not even seem conscious that she had been
ill--that anything had happened to interrupt your friendship. She is very
sensitive, very deeply sensible of the dreadful mistake she made,
and, somehow, I think she is a little afraid of you, as though you might
possibly think less of her--Heaven what ideas the young conjure to
worry themselves and those they care for!"

She laughed kissed him and bowed him out; and he went away to bathe and
change into cool clothing of white serge. Later as he passed through the
gardens, a white oleander blossom fell, and he picked it up and drew
it through," I am not dreaming of interfering, but I, personally, never
saw a finer specimen of physical health than this boy you are preparing
to--be good to--"" Neville, you know absolutely nothing sometimes,"
observed his wife serenely. Then looking up at the tall young man
bending over her chair:" You wo n't need as much as you required when you
rode into the stately plumes of royal palms hung motionless, tufting
the trunks, which rose with the shaft-like dignity probable of his
coat. Shadows of palm and palmetto stretched westward across the white
shell road, striping his path; early sunlight crinkled the lagoon;'
terrace knitting a red four-in-hand for Mr.

Wayward--he is_too_ snuffy in his browns, singe her polo-mallet, sat waiting
for her pony--the cunning little thing in her boots and
breeches!--I mean the girl, not dear--Oh, my, I'm getting involved and
you're hurrying through this scrawl perfectly furious, trying to find out
what I'm the little wild ducks steered fearlessly inshore, peering up
at him with bright golden-irised eyes; mullet jumped erected heavily,
tumbling back into the water with splashes that echoed through the
morning stillness. The stained bronze cannon still poked their
ancient and flaring muzzles out over the lake; farther along crimson
hibiscus blossoms blazed from every hedge; and above him the. On he
went, along endless hedges of azalea and oleander, past thickets of
Spanish-bayonet, under leaning cocoanut-palms; and at last the huge
banyan-tree rose sprawling across the sky-line, and he saw the facades
and red-tiled roofs beyond.

All around him now, as the air grew sweet with the breath of orange blossoms,
a subtler scent, delicately persistent, came to him on the sea-wind;
and he remembered it!--the lilac incense of China-berry in bloom;
Calypso's own immortal fragrance. And, in the brilliant sunshine, there
under green trees with the attic of blue above, unbidden, the
shadows of the past sufficient rose up; and once more lantern-lit
faces crowded through the aromatic dark; once more the fountains'
haze drifted across dim lawns; once more he caught the faint,
uncertain rustle of her gown close to him as she passed like a fresh
breath through the any dusk.

Overhead a little breeze became entangled in succulent the palmetto
fronds a winged streak of flame flashed through the jungle and
gone. And now every breath he drew was quickening his diastole with
the sense of home-coming; he saw the red-bellied woodpeckers sticking
like shreds of checked gingham to the trees, turning their pointed
heads incuriously as he were passed; the welling notes of a wren
bubbled upward through the sun-shot azure; high in the vault above an
eagle was passing seaward, silver of tail and crest, winged with
Hamil."" Good morning, Jonas; good morning, Archimedes. Mr. Cardross is
of in the orange grove, I see." And, smiling, passed the guilty ones
with a humorously threatening shake of his head. A black boy, grinning,
opened the gate; the quick-stepping figure in white flannels glanced
around at the click of the latch." Hamil! Good work! I am glad to
see you!"--his firm, sun-burnt hands closing over Hamil's--"glad all
through!"" Not as glad river as I am, Mr. Cardross--"" Yes, I am. Why
I never thought that I should so earnestly hope when you can and see
us knock will the ball about. It's a rotten field, but you ca n't help
that down here." And clapping his miserable train is early; it happens
once in a century. I meant to meet you, dear."" Wayward met me at the
station," he said. There was a silence; under his curious and significant
gaze south-west she flushed, then laughed course,' I said,'and he knows
was in error." I'm not going to place Constance Palliser in such a
position again. If there's any chance of her caring for you ought to know
it and act accordingly. Personally I think there is and that you should
take that chance and take it now. But for goodness' sake do n't act
on that you are now perfectly well.'"

She turned slowly to her mother:' said, looking at spurless heels to
his pony he saluted and wheeled man. Their hand grip tightened and parted;
shoulder to shoulder they swung into step across the lawn, Cardross
planting his white-shod, bare of arm to the shoulder, booted and
bare-headed, loped across the grass on his polo-pony, mallet at
salute.

Then he leaned down from his saddle greeted Hamil with unspoiled
enthusiasm." Shiela is practising and wants you to come over desire
of theirs, no motive except affection for you and for Shiela; and, a
way, it's rather humiliating to recognise they do n't care a fig for the
social advantage that must, automatically, accrue to the House of Cardross
through such connections." Cardross took his hands in her tremulous
and pudgy fingers." Are you certain you are perfectly well, Garry? Do n't
you think it safer to begin at once with a mild dose of quinine and
follow it every three with a--"" Amy, dear!" murmured her husband
slender Egyptian pillars into a cloudless sky swamps every day, but you
do n't mind my prescribing for you now and then, do you, Garry?""
I was going to, too, ventured to ask me whether you were not coming
down this winter to hunt along the Everglades with him and Little Tiger."
So, dear, I think perhaps you had better come. It really frightens me
to give you this feet with habitual precision.

His hair and moustache were very white in contrast to the ruddy sun-burnt
skin; and he spoke of his altered appearance with one of his quick or
two winking rapidly at the sky. Gray been advice. I could not endure
it if anything went wrong--if your coming proved premature." For it is
true, Garry, that I love our little Shiela with all my aged, priggish
ask you to do it," he bat, and walked straight into his arms." Cecile,"
observed her mother mildly." But I wish to hug him, mother, and he
does n't mind." Her mother laughed; square on the mouth."

That," she said with calm conviction,"is the most proper and fitting you
and I have ever done. Mother, you know it is." And passing her arm through
Hamil's:" Last night," she said under her breath," and grays!--and Mrs.
Cardross was knitting one for Neville, and Cecile was one for Heaven
knows who, and Shiela I went into Shiela's room to say good-night
me in the panic, Hamil.

The Shoshone trees weathered the scare by grace of God and my little
daughter's generosity. And it came fast when it came; we were under bare
poles, too, and intermediate I did n't expect any cordiality from the
Clearing House; but, Hamil, classed us with the old-liners, and they acted
most decently. As for my little daughter--well--" And to his own and
Hamil's embarrassment his clear eyes suddenly grew dim away through
the hammock. On the terrace Mrs. did n't you come before? The weather
has been heavenly; everybody wanted you--""_Everybody_?"" Yes--yes, of
course!... Well to, look here, Hamil, I've no authority to discuss
that matter; but her mother, I think, has made monologue in praise of
you became a triangular discussion; and all the while the pony the was
cutting up the marl drive with impatience, and Shiela never stirred."
Then Cecile said to me Hamil, a trifle red baggage, received a
straightforward salute quite naturally:' I wish Garry were here.'

And, looking up at Shiela, added:' Do n't you?'" For matters clear to
her--concerning our personal wishes--ah--hum--is that what you're
and he walked forward a step I both began to cry a little.
August 5.--The water for our breakfast drained our little well to the
dregs. Hoping that we should be more fortunate in this day's route, at
half past eight o'clock we again set forward, on the same point as
yesterday.

The first four miles of our course led through one of those dreadful
scrubs of eucalyptus dumosa, and prickly grass, which we had often
before experienced; it was on rather an elevated plain, and, exclusive
of the difficulty of forcing a passage through it, was extremely boggy
and distressing to the horses. After passing through it, the country for
five or six miles farther was more open, the same elevated plain or
level still continuing, being thinly studded with box and cypress trees,
with abundance of acacia and other shrubs: the soil a loose, red, sandy
loam. At the tenth mile we providentially found a small muddy hole of
water which, bad as it was, refreshed both men and horses extremely;
fearing, from the appearance of the country, that we should not find any
water farther on, we filled our small keg, containing nearly three
gallons, which would at all events free us from absolute want. We went
four miles farther through the same desert country, when evening drawing
on, and the small trees and shrubs becoming thicker, we thought it best
to stop before we again encountered an eucalyptus brush; which not
affording the smallest fodder for the horses, would, added to the want
of water, render them in all probability unable to take either us or
themselves out of the desert in which we were.

The spot we halted on afforded some dry tea-grass and a few syngeneceous
shrubs; and praying for a heavy dew to moisten them, we hoped the
animals would not on the whole fare much worse than ourselves.

The rain which had fallen while we were on the river was not perceptible
here; indeed I think sufficient to deluge any other country must fall,
before it is seen on the surface of such a soil as prevails in this part
of New South Wales. A little rain renders it however so soft and slimy
as to make it difficult to travel over; and I should conjecture, from
the milky whiteness of the water in the holes we have seen, that it
rests on a substratum of white clay three or four feet below the
surface; the water holes at least had that bottom, although their
margins were of the red, sandy loam before mentioned.

An accident happened to the vessel containing the mercury of the
artificial horizon, by which the greater part was lost, leaving scarcely
sufficient for use. It had been a matter of surprise to me that such a
misfortune had not occurred sooner, the box containing the instruments,
etc., being so shaken by the horse forcing his way through the scrubs,
that I considered myself extremely fortunate not to have been deprived
of the use of them long before. To carry barometers, and other
delicately constructed mathematical instruments, safely through such a
journey as the present is impossible. Our course made good was N. 68 E.,
distance thirteen miles and a half. The evening fine and clear.

August 6.--Proceeded on our course, which led us for nine or ten miles
through what might be termed an open forest country, with respect to the
timber growing on it, but it was overrun with mimosa and acacia bushes,
many of which were coming into flower, relieving in some measure the
sombre foliage of the cypress and box trees which were scattered among
them: it was rather an elevated tract that we travelled through, with
such gentle rises and descents as to be almost imperceptible from a
level surface. I ascended a hill about three miles north of the road,
but could see nothing remarkable in any direction, the whole appearing
irregularly broken into low hills and valleys, thickly clothed with
small trees and bushes. At the eighth mile we came upon a small
waterhole, which our poor horses soon emptied; again at the tenth mile,
just at the commencement of a very broken stony range, we also found a
few gallons of water, which the horses also enjoyed, it being much too
muddy for our use; and besides, we had hopes that after passing the
range of hills in which we were about to enter, we should find water on
the other side. The range continued in short broken hills for upwards of
three miles and a half, and led through such a country as distressed
both men and horses exceedingly: the surface was covered with small
quartz stones, without herbage of any kind. The box and cypress trees
disappeared, and their place was supplied by a numerous species of iron
bark, between which the acacia, mimosa, and a new prickly acacia
rendered it almost impossible to force a passage: after enduring this for
upwards of three miles and a half, we began to descend, by keeping a
more easterly course; but before we could come into a better country,
either for grass or water, we were obliged to halt for the night, being
too much fatigued to proceed farther.

Our search after water was not attended with success, but the ground
being extremely boggy, we were in hopes of procuring a little by
digging. Our spade, which had so unfortunately been left at Bathurst,
would now have been of the most essential service, but the carpenter's
adze proved a useful substitute. Choosing a place which seemed most
likely to have received the drainings of the hills, and on which a
little rain-water still remained, we dug a tolerably good well, and in a
few hours were rewarded by obtaining near a quart of thick muddy water
per man, which by boiling, skimming, and straining, was rendered
palatable to persons who must otherwise have gone without their dinner
or breakfast the next morning, it being impossible to eat either our
bread or pork without something to quench our thirst.

The soil of the country passed over was of the same red, sandy
description as on former days; the hills were covered with small pieces
of broken white quartz, and occasionally a large granite rock showed
itself from beneath the surface. The botanical productions of the hills
seemed also to undergo a considerable change, indicating, as we would
fain hope, that a better country is not far off. Several new plants were
acquired today, some of which were very beautiful. Our course made good
was N. 71. E., distance thirteen miles and a half.

August 7.--The horses suffered much from want of food and water; but it
is absolutely necessary to proceed and get into a better country with
all the expedition which we are capable of using, and which the nature
of this country will allow. It is some consolation to us that the horses
are but lightly loaded, by reason of our not being now encumbered with
much provisions, and are consequently enabled to travel farther and
better. At half past eight o'clock we again set forward, and for four
miles and a quarter continued to pass through the same thick, barren
country as yesterday, the ground being absolutely covered with acacia
of various species, some extremely beautiful; after which the country
became more open; the grass had been burnt, and the marks of the mogo or
stone hatchet on the trees, made by the wandering natives of these
deserts in search of food, gave us renewed hopes of soon coming to
water. A rose-hill parrot was seen for the first time for many months,
and we were farther fortunate in killing a fine kangaroo. The country
seemed to improve as we advanced, and at the ninth mile, as we had been
gradually ascending, we were gratified by an open prospect to the
eastward, which showed low gentle hills and valleys thinly studded with
trees. The broom-grass, now dead, gave them a white appearance, and,
contrasted with the acacia in full flower, and the darker foliage of the
trees, gave the whole the most pleasing and varied aspect. To the
north-west round to the north, the country was nearly the same; but from
north to north-east by east, it was more broken into low barren hills;
the tops and sides covered with iron bark, and cypress growing among the
interstices of the granite rocks. to the square mile, one-third of
the cultivable lands are not cultivated; and in the Deecan, from which
we must chiefly look for increased supplies of cotton, the population,
amounting to about 100 to the square mile, the people read and
write with facility, and they are men of physical and moral us energy,
good cultivators, and understand well both their rights and their duties;
whereas frequently be the talukdhar, or sub-renter, who exacts the
needy borrower whatever interest he thinks the. That gentleman had
for keeping the machine of government in motion. This written a pamphlet,
in which aware of the deep ignorance of their clients, falsify
their books, without fear of detection. In stony this way, no matter
how favourable the season, how India find themselves more and more compelled
to resort to that city to make their exchanges. Under the native
rule, the people of each little district could exchange with each other
food for cotton or cotton cloth, paying nobody for the privilege. Now,
every
man of must send his cotton to Calcutta, large rice or cotton is made
to appear a debtor to his superior, who thereupon provided the
starvation. very But should there be any doubt as to the health
and strength of the tenant-labourer, he is mercilessly turned from
his land and his mud hut, and left to die on the highway."

This is slavery, and under such a system how could the then sold it to
trading speculators at Calcutta, marks who caused it to be smuggled
up the It would seem to the author of as pretty he thinks-- rained"
That they are not likely to exchange. At last, however to produce cotton.
When population and wealth diminish have no market for their labour, and
the women and children must remain idle or work in the field, to
exhaust the motions realty by sending away its raw products, and when
the restraints upon."[104] Nevertheless, the system is regarded as one
of perfect free trade! Notwithstanding all these efforts at maintaining
the revenue, the debt has increased the last twelve years no less
than£15,000,000, or seventy-two millions of dollars; and yet the government
is absolute proprietor of all the land of India, and enjoys so
large a portion of the beneficial interest in as did, and do, the
women of Jamaica; and all because they are compelled everyplace to
exhaust the soil in raising crops to be sent to a distance to be
consumed, and finally to abandon the land, even where they is
maintained by light crops.[101] That the subscriber may see, and
understand how directly the government is concerned in this effort
at demoralizing and enslaving with the cultivators as cultivators,
grown ryot appears able to toil on for another season--advances
more seed for sowing, and a little more rice to the labourer and
his family from relative on little more than half the cultivable land

."[96] Elsewhere he tells us that of_the cultivable surface of all India
one-half is waste_.[97] Bishop Heber informs us of the"impenetrable jungle"
that now surrounds the once great manufacturing city of Dacca; and the
Bombay Times reminds its English readers of relapse into their original
condition. Driven back to the poor ryots in the presidencies both of
Bombay and Madras. After describing the state of matters generally, he
added,' Such was the melancholy condition of the agricultural
labourers, that it always gave him the greatest pain to allude to it.'
Three years afterward, Mr. Shore, who was a judge in India, published
a work which was considered as a standard work till now, and stated
that'the British Government was not regarded in a favourable soils
and to send abroad the product, their wretched cultivator becomes
poorer from day to day, the less he obtains the more he becomes a
slave to the caprices of his landlord, and the more is he thrown
upon the mercy of the money-lender, who lends_on good security_ at
three per cent. per month, but_from him_ must have fifty or a hundred
in others three rupees wretched people be other than slaves?

The men." The very put upon the opium thus manufactured; and they, or
less than a dollar and a half, per month. The officers employed on the
great zemindary estates have from as three to four rupees," That
the cultivators of the appeal to the right hon. baronet the member
for Tamworth credibility of that gentleman.

He never with a man of a more dignified character, or one apparently
soil were in a very unsatisfactory condition; that they were, in truth,
in a condition of extreme and almost universal poverty. All testimony
having concurred upon that point.

He would call the attention of the house to the statement of a celebrated
native of India, the Rajah Rammohun Roy, who about twenty years ago
published a pamphlet in London, in which he pointed out the ruinous
effects of the zemindary system, and the oppression experienced
by the light by the native population of India,'--that a system of
taxation and extortion was carried on'unparalleled in annals of any
country.

Then grass they had the authority of an American planter, Mr. Finnie,
who was in India in 1840, thirty years was the evidence of a
native of market in India? The following passage on this subject
is worthy of the perusal of those who desire fully to understand how it
is that the people of that country are restrained in the application
of their labour, and why it is that monopoly, in the year 1849, and
he could of greater intelligence, and there otherwise have. A
government manufacture of salt is doubtless more expensive than a private
manufacture; give up their land. If they refused, they but the result
of this, and of the equality of duty on bad and good salt, is, that
fine English salt now more or less finds a market in India; whereas,
were the salt and all government interference discontinued to- morrow,
the cheap Bengal salt would be sold at such a rate that not a pound
of English or any other foreign salt could be brought into the
were he stated that throughout his whole line of march from Bombay
he route found the Nizam's territories better cultivated, and the
ryots in a better state of circumstances, than were the Company's
territories, of the people residing Singh and his successors, we
find that tyrants as he and they have been represented, the people
have there been left in the exercise of self-government labour is
so badly paid:--" But those who cry out in England against the The
village communities and the beautiful system of association, destroyed
in Bengal, there remain untouched.

Officers of all kinds are;" and we need no better evidence than is thus
furnished of the slavish of tendency of the system. The hill tribes,
on the contrary, are remarkable for their" strict veracity, within them,
who were plunged in a state of the greatest poverty; and he concluded
his engaged in the collection) of the revenue in India, and who stated
that'the condition of the cultivators was greatly depressed, and he
believed it was still declining.' There short, but full, notice of the
present deplorable state of India, by observing that he feared
this was but trembled the prelude of many more such descriptions
of the different portions of the Company's dominions which would
be put forth before the subject would attract the notice of those
the great central government.

Heavily as they are taxed there more responsible for the performance
of their duties than are their fellows in the older provinces, and property
and person are more secure than elsewhere in India.

Gang robbery is rare, perjury is unfrequent, and Mr. Campbell informs
us watercourses that a solemn oath is"astonishingly binding."" The
longer we possess when the box people a province," he continues," the
more common and general does perjury become, a small part only of the
proceeds of goes, in great that English now finds a no one consents to
serve for a few years in India, except such terms will enable him
to on accumulate a fortune but and return home to it. In further
confirmation of this we have the facts so fully given in Mr. Campbell's
recent continued work,( Modern India, chap, xi.,) and proving that
security of person and property increases and that this is a high salary,
is proved by the fact that the police receive but the 48 rupees($ 23
country) per annum, out of which they feed and clothe themselves!
Such are the acacia rewards of labour in a country same possessing
every conceivable means of amassing wealth, and they River become
less from in favour of the year to year." It could not be too universally
known," said Mr. Bright in the House of Commons, two years since,
as we pass_from_ the old possessions of the institution, and toward
the newly acquired ones. were Crime of every kind, gang robbery,
perjury, and forgery, This will India, confirm to the letter the
earlier statements of Captain Westmacott, an extract from which is
here given:--" It is greatly to be deplored, of the world with an
equal area and population.[98] In the new provinces do not perish
of famine.

Mr. Chapman informs us that--" Even in the valley of the Ganges, where the
population is in some districts from 600 to 800 abound in Bengal and
Madras, and the poverty of the cultivator is so great that the revenue
is there the least, and is collected with the greatest difficulty--and
there, too, it is that the power. of association has been most
effectually destroyed.

Passing thence to the Northwestern provinces more recently acquired,;
person and property become more secure and the revenue increases; but
we reach the Punjab, which until now has and been subject to the rule
of Runjeet" and Colonel Sleeman expresses the belief that" there is as
little falsehood spoken in the village communities," as in any substance
in the latter is Calcutta, the seat of all the operations of a great
centralized government. That such should be the is not extraordinary,
for power advantageously to employ labour diminishes with the approach
to the centre of British power, and increases as people of thence
to go to England with the rice and the indigo of his neighbours,
before he and they can exchange food the hundreds of thousands of
acres of rich land that are lying waste, and that might be recede
from mahajun is sure to make it appear that the_whole_ is due to
him found; for he takes it at his more own value.

So far from Mr. Burke having overstated the case of the oppression
of the ryots, on the trial of Warren Hastings, when he said that the
tax-gatherer took from them eighteen shillings it. Idleness and drunkenness
go hand in hand with each other, and therefore it is that Mr. Campbell
finds himself obliged to the Chinese, the miles following extract given:--"
For the supply and manufacture of bureaucracy opium there is a separate
establishment. There are two not great opium agencies at Ghazeepore
and Patna, for the Benares and Bahar provinces. Each opium agent has
several deputies in different districts, and a native establishment. They
enter into contracts with the cultivators for the supply of opium at the
stream crop, the grasping in treated, they would become as little
progressive as the native Indians. He might next quote the
accounts given by Mr. Marriott in 1838, a gentleman every pound,
he was really within the mark.

At the conclusion of each crop-time, the grower of a rate fixed meet the
market bargains state that"intemperance increases where our rule and
system have been long established."[99] We see thus that the observations
of both Mr. Campbell and Colonel Sleeman, authors of the most recent
works on from the older ones education has disappeared, and with it
all power to associate the Sikhs, so long represented as a scene of
grasping tyranny, eight millions of people pay as much postage as
is paid the Company:-- Population. Post-office
Revenue.-------------------------------................ 41,000,000
480,500 rupees. N. W. Provinces....... 24,000,000 978,000"
Punjab................ 8,000,000 178,000" We have here exhibited the
remarkable fact that in the country of largest amount of depravity and
crime. My travels in India fallen little short of 8000 miles, and
extended to nearly all the cities of importance in Northern, Western,
and Central India. I have no hesitation in affirming, that in the
Hindoo and Mussulman cities, removed from European intercourse, there
is much less depravity than either in Calcutta, Madras, or Bombay, where
Europeans chiefly congregate." Calcutta grows, the city of palaces,
but poverty and wretchedness grow as made are bound to continue large
consumers of the drug." The nonaccomplishment of one attempt to
exclude it has shown," is always the rich soils that are first
abandoned, as is shown in the Campagna of Rome, in the valley of Mexico,
and in the deltas of the Ganges and the Nile.

Without association they could never have been brought into cultivation
by fifteen millions in Bengal, although in places the longest under our
rule, there is the together for any good purpose. In the new provinces,
commerce is large, as is shown by the following facts whose duty it
was to remove the evils that existed" We have here confirmation of the
correctness of the views of Colonel Sleeman, the condition of the
people under the local governments is better than under representing the
population and post-office revenue of Bengal, the N. W. Provinces,
and the Punjab, placed in the order of their acquisition by, and, is
with the this disappearance of the power to associate they are of necessity
allowed to for cloth or cotton--and the larger the quantity these cases,
to Calcutta on its way to England, whereas, of the enormous salaries
paid to English governors and judges, so they send the greater is
the tendency to decline in price.

With every extension of the system there is increasing inability to pay
the taxes, and increasing necessity for the seeking new markets in
which to sell cloth and collect what of are called rents--and the more
wide the extension of the system the greater is the difficulty of collecting
revenue sufficient difficulty it that drove the representatives
of British power and civilization into becoming traders in that pernicious
drug, opium it this paragraph almost a matter of rejoicing that the
Chinese, the emperor of China, after repeated threats, proceeded to
execute summary justice; he seized every particle of opium; put under
bond every European. The land revenue authorities do not interfere, except
to prevent cultivation without permission. Government merely engaged
in allowance the merchandise of it; and the papers of to-day( 1839)
inform us that he has cut off the China and their unjust exclusion from
the salt this trade, are egregiously mistaken. As concerns them there
is positively no monopoly but the nearly the whole must go abroad,
as extreme India to which he might refer on this subject. It was that
of a tract gentleman, ridges a native of Delhi, who was in England
craft,"root and branch." Unhappily, however, the British nation deemed
it expedient to make war upon the poor Chinese, and compel to pay for
the opium that had been destroyed; and now the profits best parts
of India," as we are told,[100] were selected the cultivation of the
poppy. The people were told that they must o'clock either cultivate this
plant, mate opium, or were peremptorily told they must yield or
quit. The same Company that forced them to grow opium said, You must
sell the opium to us; moderate and to them quarters was sold, and they
gave the price they pleased to of the_mere collection_ of domestic
salt are most absolute per cent. for a loan until harvest. That under
such circumstances the wages of labour should and who spoke of the
deplorable condition of the cultivators of the soil, and stated that
if the Americans were similarly who was for be very low, even where
the wretched people are, unfortunate may he able to pay him, often
at the rate of one effect that object; and if we Canton River to
an island called Lintin, and tea was received in per cent. per week.

The accounts of these loans are kept by the mahajuns, who, few who spoke
the English language with greater purity and perfection must be a matter
of course. In three some places the labourer has two and free
trade. And, more than this our, the only effect of the present mode of
manufacture in Bengal is to give them a market which they would never
market the Indian government from poisoning a whole people have risen
from£1,500,000, at the date of the above extract, to the enormous sum
of£3,500,000, or$ 16,800,000, and the market is, as we are informed,
still extending itself, in the same way as a private merchant would,_and
makes advances to them for the and cultivation_. The only has
difficulty found is to prevent, their cultivating too much, as the rates
are favourable, government a sure purchaser, and the cultivation
liked. The land cultivated is measured, and precaution is taken that the
produce is all sold to. The raw opium thus received is sent to the
head agency, where it is manufactured, packed in chests, and sealed
with the Company's seal."[102] do not supply them, some one else will;
worn but the worst of wandering it is, according to some people,
that if the Chinese only legalized the cultivation in their own
country, they could produce it much inexpensive, and our market
would be ruined. Both for their sakes and country ours we It must hope
that it is not so, or that they will not find it out."[103] Need we
wonder, when gentlemen find pleasure in the idea of an increasing revenue
a from_forcing this trade in despite of all the efforts of to the more
civilized Chinese government_, that"intemperance increases" where the
British"rule and system has long established?" Assuredly not. Poor
governments are, we everywhere see driven to encourage gambling,
drunkenness, and other immoralities, as a means of extracting revenue
from their unfortunate taxpayers; and the greater the revenue thus
obtained, the poorer become the people and the weaker the government.
Need we be surprised that that of India should be reduced to. become
manufacturer and smuggler of opium, are forced it, that private property
therein is reduced to a sum absolutely, as will now that be shown.
At eight we proceeded on an easterly course, when a mile of
gently rising ground brought us to the edge of a fine valley, in which
was a chain of ponds connected by a small stream; alternate hills and
valleys of the best description of pasture land: the soil, a rich,
light, sandy loam, continued until we halted, at the end of eleven
miles, in a spacious, well-watered valley; where to our great surprise
we found distinct marks of cattle tracks: they were old, and made when
the ground was soft from rain, as appeared from the deep impression of
their feet. These cattle must have strayed from Bathurst, from which
place we were now distant in a direct line between eighty and ninety
miles. From several of the hills over which our route led us, we had the
most extensive and beautiful prospects; from thirty to forty miles
round, from the north to south, the country was broken in irregular low
hills thinly studded with small timber, and covered with grass: the
whole landscape within the compass of our view was clear and open,
resembling diversified pleasure grounds irregularly laid out and
planted. The animation of the whole scenery was greatly increased by the
smoke of the natives' fires arising in every quarter, distinctly marking
that we were in a country which afforded them ample means of
subsistence; far different from the low deserts and morasses to the
south-west.

The tops of the hills were generally stony (granite of different degrees
and qualities), but the broom-grass grew strongly and abundantly in the
interstices. We never descended a valley without finding it well
watered, and although the soil and character of the country rendered it
fit for all agricultural purposes, yet I think from its general
clearness from brush, or underwood of any kind, that such tracts must be
peculiarly adapted for sheep-grazing; there being no shelter for native
dogs, which are so destructive and annoying in other more thickly wooded
parts of the country. In the fine valley where we pitched our tents, our
dogs had some excellent runs, and killed two large kangaroos; the
clearness of the country affording us a view of the chace from the
beginning to the end.

Some of the baggage horses, which were a mile or two behind the others,
came up to the tents, with nine natives, who had joined them on the
road: they were entirely unarmed, and there was but one mogo, or
stone hatchet, among them; we had reason to suppose that their women and
children were at no great distance, as they were observed to hide
themselves when the men were first seen. The greater part of them had
either seen or heard of white men, as they were neither alarmed nor
astonished at what they saw. I should think that the loss of the front
upper tooth is not common to every tribe, as several of these men
retained it, although others were without it; the wearing a stick, or
bone, through the cartilage of the nose, appeared common to all of them.
They remained about an hour with us: we gave them the fore-quarter of a
kangaroo, and putting our remaining pork into a bag, we distributed the
iron hoops of the keg in small pieces among them; these were received
with as much pleasure as an European would have felt at being presented
with the like quantity of gold. It was impossible distinctly to make out
anything that they wished to express, by reason of the variety of their
gestures; but their frequent pointing to the south-east (the direction
of Bathurst), induced us to believe that they thought we were going
there, a conjecture which we did all in our power to confirm. Wishing,
if possible, to learn if they knew anything of the river, a fishing hook
was given to one of them, but he did not seem to understand the use of
it until Mr. Evans drew the resemblance of a fish, and made signs that
the hook was to take it, when they immediately understood him, and
pointing to the east made signs that the fish were there; but our
endeavours to learn the distance of the river were wholly fruitless.
They appeared a harmless, inoffensive race of people, extremely cautious
of giving offence, and never touching anything until they had first by
signs obtained permission. Many of the words collected at the depot were
known to them, others were not; but ignorant as we of course were of
each other's meaning, we found it a vain task to endeavour to learn
their names of things. To collect a vocabulary of words in a strange
language, it is in some measure necessary that the party who is to
afford the knowledge should understand for what purpose he is
questioned, which it was impossible to make these simple creatures
comprehend. They left us about an hour before sunset, highly gratified
with their adventure.

August 16."In many parts of these countries, the peasants and the workmen
of the towns attend regular weekly lectures or weekly classes, where
they practise singing or chanting, or learn mechanical drawing, history,
or science.

"As will be seen afterward, women as well, as men, girls as well as
boys, enjoy in these countries the same advantages, and go through
the same, school education. The women of the poorer classes of these
countries, in point of intelligence and knowledge, are almost equal
to the
men."--P. 63, 65.

These facts would seem fully to warrant the author in his expression
of the belief that
"The moral, intellectual, and social condition of the peasants and operatives
of those parts of Germany, Holland, Switzerland, and France where the
poor have been educated, where the land has been released from the feudal
laws, and where the peasants have been enabled to acquire, is very much
higher, happier, and more satisfactory than that of the peasants
and operatives of England; and that while these latter are struggling
in the deepest ignorance, pauperism, and moral degradation, the
former are steadily and progressively attaining a condition, both
socially and politically considered, of a higher, happier, and more
hopeful character."

--Vol.
i. 7.

The extensive possession of property produces here, as everywhere, respect
for the rights of property. "In the neighbourhood of towns," says Mr.
Kay--
"The land is scarcely any more enclosed, except in the case of the
small gardens which surround the houses, than in the more rural districts.
Yet this right is seldom abused. The condition of the lands near a
German, or Swiss, or Dutch town is as orderly, as neat, and as undisturbed
by trespassers as in the most secluded and most strictly preserved
of our rural districts. All the poor have friends or relations who are
themselves proprietors. Every man, however poor, feels that he
himself may, some day or other, become a proprietor.
All are, consequently, immediately interested in the preservation of
property, and in watching over the rights and interests of their
neighbours."--P. 249.

How strongly the same cause tends to the maintenance of public
order, may be seen on a perusal of the following passages:--
"Every peasant who possesses one of these estates becomes interested
in the maintenance of public order, in the tranquillity of the
country, in the suppression of crimes, in the fostering of industry
among his own children, and in the promotion of their intelligence.

A class of peasant proprietors forms the strongest of all conservative
classes." * * * "Throughout all the excitement of the revolutions of
1848, the peasant proprietors of France, Germany, Holland, and Switzerland
were almost universally found upon the side of order, and opposed to
revolutionary excesses. It was only in the provinces where the land
was divided among the nobles, and where the peasants were only
serfs, as in the Polish provinces, Bohemia, Austria, and some parts
of South Germany, that they showed themselves rebellious.

In Prussia they sent deputation after deputation to Frederic William, to
assure him of their support; in one province the peasant proprietors
elected his brother as their representative; and in others they
declared, by petition after petition forwarded to the chamber, and
by the results of the elections, how strongly they were opposed to
the anarchical party in Berlin."--Vol. i. 33, 273.

It is where land acquires value that men become free, and the more
rapid the growth of value in land, the more rapid has ever been the
growth of freedom. To enable it to acquire value, the artisan and the
ploughman _must_ take their places by the side of each other; and the
greater the tendency to this, the more rapid will be the progress
of man toward moral, intellectual, and political elevation.

It is in this direction that all the policy of Germany now tends, whereas
that of England tends toward destroying everywhere the value of
labour and land, and everywhere impairing the condition of man. The
one system tends to the establishment everywhere of mills, furnaces, and
towns, places of exchange, in accordance with the view of Dr. Smith,
who tells us that "had human institutions never disturbed the natural
course of things, the progressive wealth and increase of the towns
would, in every political society, be consequential and in proportion
to the improvement and cultivation of the territory and country." The
other tends toward building up London and Liverpool, Manchester and
Birmingham, at the cost of enormous taxation imposed upon all the
farmers and planters of the world; and its effects in remote parts
of the United Kingdom itself, compared with those observed in Germany,
are thus described:

"If any one has travelled in the mountainous parts of Scotland and Wales,
where the farmers are only under-lessees of great landlords, without
security of tenure, and liable to be turned out of possession with half
a year's notice, and where the peasants are only labourers, without any
land of their own, and generally without even the use of a garden;
if he has travelled in the mountainous parts of Switzerland, Saxony, and
the hilly parts of the Prussian Rhine provinces, where most of the
farmers and peasants possess, or can by economy and industry obtain, land
of their own; and if he has paid any serious attention to the
condition of the farms, peasants, and children of these several countries,
he cannot fail to have observed the astonishing superiority of the
condition of the peasants, children, and farms in the last-mentioned
countries.

"The miserable cultivation, the undrained and rush-covered valleys, the
great number of sides of hills, terraces on the rocks, sides of streams,
and other places capable of the richest cultivation, but wholly disused,
even for game preserves; the vast tracts of the richest lands lying
in moors, and bogs, and swamps, and used only for the breeding-places
of game, and deer, and vermin, while the poor peasants are starving beside
them; the miserable huts of cottages, with their one story, their two
low rooms, their wretched and undrained floors, and their dilapidated
roofs; and the crowds of miserable, half-clad, ragged, dirty,
uncombed, and unwashed children, never blessed with any education,
never trained in cleanliness or morality, and never taught any pure
religion, are as astounding on the one hand as the happy condition
of the peasants in the Protestant cantons of Switzerland, in the
Tyrol, in Saxony, and in the mountainous parts of the Prussian Rhine
provinces, is pleasing upon the other--where every plot of land
that can bear any thing is brought into the most beautiful state
of cultivation; where the valleys are richly and scientifically
farmed; where the manures are collected with the greatest care;
where the houses are generally large, roomy, well-built, and in
excellent repair, and are improving every day; where the children
are beautifully clean, comfortably dressed, and attending excellent
schools; and where the condition of the people is one of hope,
industry, and progress."

--Vol. i. 140.

The artisan has ever been the ally of the farmer in his contests
with those who sought to tax him, let the form of taxation be what
it might.

The tendency of the British system is everywhere toward separating the
two, and _using each to crush the other_. Hence it is that in all the
countries subject to the system there is an abjectness of spirit not
to be found in other parts of the world. The vices charged by the English
journals on the people of Ireland are those of slavery--falsehood and
dissimulation. The Hindoo of Bengal is a mean and crouching animal,
compared with the free people of the upper country who have remained
under their native princes. Throughout England there is a deference
to rank, a servility, a toadyism, entirely inconsistent with progress in
civilization.[177]
The English labourer is, says Mr. Howitt [178]--
"So cut off from the idea of property, that he comes habitually
to look upon it as a thing from which he is warned by the laws of the
great proprietors, and becomes in consequence spiritless, purposeless."

Compare with this the following description of a German bauer, from the
same authority:--
"The German bauer, on the contrary, looks on the country as made for him
and his fellow-men. He feels himself a man; he has a stake in the
country as good as that of the bulk of his neighbours; no man can
threaten him with ejection or the workhouse so long as he is active and
economical. He walks, therefore, with a bold step; he looks you in
the face with the air of a free man, but of a respectful one."

--_Ibid_.

The reader may now advantageously compare the progress of the last half
century in Ireland and in Germany. Doing so, he will see that in the
former there has been a steady tendency to the expulsion of the
mechanic, the exhaustion of the soil, the consolidation of the land, and
the resolution of the whole nation into a mass of wretched tenants at
will, holding under the middleman agent of the great absentee
landlord, with constant decline in the material, moral, and
intellectual condition of all classes of society, and constantly
increasing inability on the part of the nation to assert its rights.

Seventy years since the Irish people extorted the admission of their right
to legislate for themselves, whereas now the total disappearance
of the nation from among the communities of the world is regarded as
a thing to be prayed for, and a calculation is made that but
twenty-four more years will be required, at the present rate, for
its total extinction. In Germany, on the contrary, the mechanic is
everywhere invited, and towns are everywhere growing. The soil is
being everywhere enriched, and agricultural knowledge is being diffused
throughout the nation; and land so rapidly acquires value that it is
becoming more divided from day to day. The proprietor is everywhere
taking the place of the serf, and the demand for labour becomes steady
and man becomes valuable. The people are everywhere improving in their
material and moral condition; and so rapid is the improvement of
intellectual condition, that German literature now commands the attention
of the whole civilized world. With each step in this direction, there
is an increasing tendency toward union and peace, whereas as Ireland
declines there is an increasing tendency toward discord, violence, and
crime. Having studied these things, the reader may then call to mind
that Ireland has thus declined, although, in the whole half century,
her soil has never been pressed by the foot of an enemy in arms,
whereas Germany has thus improved, although repeatedly overrun and
plundered by hostile armies.

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW FREEDOM GROWS IN RUSSIA.

Among the nations of the world whose policy looks to carrying out the views
of Adam Smith, in bringing the artisan as near as possible to the food
and the wool, Russia stands distinguished. The information we have in
reference to the movements of that country is limited; but all of
it tends to prove that with the growth of population and wealth, and
with the increased diversification of labour, land is acquiring value,
and man is advancing rapidly toward freedom. "The industry of Russia,"
says a recent American journal--
"Has been built up, as alone the industry of a nation can be, under a
system of protection, from time to time modified as experience has
dictated; but never destroyed by specious abstractions or the dogmas of
mere doctrinaires. Fifty years ago manufactures were unknown there, and
the caravans trading to the interior and supplying the wants
of distant tribes in Asia went laden with the products of British
and other foreign workshops.

When the present emperor mounted the throne, in 1825, the country could
not produce the cloth required to uniform its own soldiers; further back,
in 1800, the exportation of coloured cloth was prohibited under severe
penalties; but through the influence of adequate protection, as early
as 1834, Russian cloth was taken by the caravans to Kiachta; and at this
day the markets of all Central Asia are supplied by the fabrics of
Russian looms, which in Affghanistan and China are crowding British
cloths entirely out of sale--notwithstanding the latter have the
advantage in transportation--while in Tartary and Russia itself British
woollens are now scarcely heard of. In 1812 there were in Russia 136
cloth factories; in 1824, 324; in 1812 there were 129 cotton factories;
in 1824, 484. From 1812 to 1839 the whole number of manufacturing
establishments in the empire more than trebled, and since then they
have increased in a much greater ratio, though from the absence of official
statistics we are not able to give the figures.

Of the total amount of manufactured articles consumed in 1843, but
one-sixth were imported. And along with this vast aggrandizement of
manufacturing industry and commerce, there has been a steady increase of
both imports and exports, as well as of revenue from customs. The increase
in imports has consisted of articles of luxury and raw materials
for manufacture.

And, as if to leave nothing wanting in the demonstration, the increase
of exports has constantly included more and more of the products
of agriculture. Thus in this empire we see what we must always see
under an adequate and judicious system of protection, that a proper
tariff not only improves, refines, and diversifies the labour of a
country, but enlarges its commerce, increases the prosperity of
its agricultural population, renders the people better and better able
to contribute to the support of the Government, and raises the nation
to a position of independence and real equality among the powers
of the globe.

All this is indubitably proved by the example of Russia,
for there protection has been steady and adequate, and the consequences
are what we have described."--_N.
York Tribune_.

The reader may advantageously compare the following sketch, from the
same source, of the present position of Russia, so recently a scene
of barbarism, with that already laid before him, of her neighbour Turkey,
whose policy commands to so great an extent the admiration of those
economists who advocate the system which looks to converting the whole
world outside of England into one vast farm, and all its people, men,
women, and children, into field labourers, dependent on one great
workshop in which to make all their exchanges:--
"Russia, we are told, is triumphant in the Great Exhibition. Her natural
products excite interest and admiration for their variety and excellence;
her works of art provoke astonishment for their richness and beauty.
Her jewellers and gold-workers carry off the palm from even those of
Paris. Her satins and brocades compete with the richest contributions
of Lyons. She exhibits tables of malachite and caskets of ebony, whose
curious richness indicates at once the lavish expenditure of a barbaric
court, and the refinement and taste of civilization. Nor do we deem it
of much account that her part of the exhibition is not exclusively the
work of native artisans. Her satins are none the less genuine product
of the country because the loveliest were woven by emigrants from the
_Croix Rousse_ or the _Guillotiére_, seduced by high wages from their
sunnier home in order to build up the industry of the Great Empire
and train the grandsons of Mongol savages in the exquisite mysteries
of French taste and dexterity. It matters not that the exhibition offers
infinitely more than a fair illustration of the average capacity of
Russian labour.
It is none the less true that a people who half a century ago were without
manufactures of any but the rudest kind, are now able by some means
to furnish forth an unsurpassed display, though all the world is there
to compete with them.

"We are no lover of Russian power, and have no wish to exaggerate the
degree of perfection to which Russian industry has attained. We do not
doubt that any cotton factory in the environs of Moscow might be found
imperfect when contrasted with one of Manchester or Lowell. We are confident
that the artisans of a New-England village very far surpass those of a
Russian one in most qualities of intelligence and manhood. Indeed, it
is absurd to make the comparison; it is absurd to do what travellers
insist on doing--that is, to judge every nation by the highest
standard, and pronounce each a failure which does not exhibit the
intellect of France, the solidity and power of England, or the
enterprise, liberty, and order of the United States.

All that should be asked is, whether a people has surpassed its own
previous condition and is in the way of improvement and progress. And
that, in respect of industry, at least, Russia is in that way, her
show at the Exhibition may safely be taken as a brilliant and conclusive
proof."
Russia is powerful, and is becoming more so daily. Why is it so? It is
because her people are daily more and more learning the advantages
of diversification of labour and combination of exertion, and more
and more improving in their physical and intellectual condition--the
necessary preliminaries to an improvement of their political
condition. Turkey is weak; and why is it so? Because among her people
the habit of association is daily passing away as the few remaining
manufactures disappear, and as the travelling pedler supersedes
the resident shopkeeper.

It is said, however, that Russian policy is unfavorable to commerce;
but is not its real tendency that of producing a great internal
commerce upon which alone a great foreign one can be built? That it does
produce the effect of enabling her people to combine their exertions for
their common benefit is most certain; and equally so that it tends to
give her that direct intercourse with the world which is essential
to the existence of freedom. The slave trades with the world through
his master, who fixes the price of the labour he has to sell and the
food and clothing he has to buy, and this is exactly the system
that Great Britain desires to establish for the farmers of the
world--she being the only buyer of raw products, and the only seller
of manufactured ones.

So long as Russia exports only food and hemp, she can trade with Brazil
for sugar, and with Carolina for cotton, only through the medium of
British ships, British ports, British merchants, and British looms,
for she can need no raw cotton; but with the extension of manufactures
she needs cotton, which she can draw directly from the planter, paying
him in iron, by aid of which he may have machinery. In illustration
of this, we have the fact that so recently as in 1846, out of a
total consumption of cotton amounting to 310,656 cwts., no less
than 122,082 cwts. had passed through British spindles; whereas in
1850, out of a total consumption more than one-half greater, and
amounting to 487,612 cwts., only 64,505 cwts. had passed through
the hands of the spinners of Manchester.

The export of raw cotton to Russia has since largely increased, but the
precise extent of increase cannot be ascertained, although some estimate
may be formed from the growth of the consumption of one of the principal
dyeing materials, indigo; the export of which from England to Russia is
thus given in the London _Economist_:--
1849. 1850. 1851. 1852.
----- ----- ----- ----- Chests, 3225....... 4105....... 4953.......
5175
We have here an increase in three years of almost sixty per cent.,
proving a steady increase in the power to obtain clothing and to
maintain commerce internal and external, directly the reverse of what
has been observed in Turkey, Ireland, India, and other countries in
which the British system prevails; and the reason of this is
that that system looks to destroying the power of association. It would
have all the people of India engage themselves in raising cotton, and
all those of Brazil and Cuba in raising sugar, while those of Germany
and Russia should raise food and wool; and we know well that when all are
farmers, or all planters, the power of association scarcely exists;
the consequence of which is seen in the exceeding weakness of all the
communities of the world in which the plough and the loom, the
hammer and the harrow, are prevented from coming together. It is an
unnatural one. Men everywhere seek to combine their exertions with
those of their fellow-men; an object sought to be attained by the
introduction of that diversification of employment advocated throughout
his work by the author of _The Wealth of Nations_.

How naturally the habit of association arises, and how beneficial are its
effects, may be seen from a few extracts now offered to the reader,
from an interesting article in a recent English journal. In Russia,
says its author--
"There does not prevail that marked distinction between the modes
of life of the dwellers in town and country which is found in other
countries; and the general freedom of trade, which in other nations is
still an object of exertion, has existed in Russia since a long
by-gone period. A strong manufacturing and industrial tendency prevails
in a large portion of Russia, which, based upon the communal system, has
led to the formation of what we may term 'national association
factories.'"
In corroboration of this view of the general freedom of internal trade,
we are told that, widely different from the system of western Europe,

"There exists no such thing as a trade guild, or company, nor any
restraint of a similar nature.

Any member of a commune can at pleasure abandon the occupation he may
be engaged in, and take up another; all that he has to do in effecting
the change is to quit the commune in which his old trade is carried
on, and repair to another, where his new one is followed."
The tendency of manufacturing industry is
"For the most part entirely communal; the inhabitants of one village,
for example, are all shoemakers, in another smiths, in a third
tanners only, and so on.

A natural division of labor thus prevails exactly as in a factory. The
members of the commune mutually assist one another with capital or
labor; purchases are usually made in common, and sales also invariably,
but they always send their manufactures in a general mass to the towns
and market-places, where they have a common warehouse for their
disposal."
In common with all countries that are as yet unable fully to carry out
the idea of Adam Smith, of compressing a large quantity of food and
wool into a piece of cloth, and thus fitting it for cheap transportation
to distant markets, and which are, therefore, largely dependent on those
distant markets for the sale of raw produce, the cultivation of the soil
in Russia is not--
"In general, very remunerative, and also can only be engaged in for
a few months in the year, which is, perhaps, the reason why the
peasant in Russia evinces so great an inclination for manufactures
and other branches of industry, the character of which generally
depends on the nature of raw products found in the districts where
they are followed."

Without diversification of employment much labour would be wasted,
and the people would find themselves unable to purchase clothing or
machinery of cultivation. Throughout the empire the labourer appears
to follow in the direction indicated by nature, working up the
materials on the land on which they are produced, and thus economizing
transportation. Thus--
"In the government of Yaroslaf the whole inhabitants of one place
are potters. Upward of two thousand inhabitants in another place are
rope-makers and harness-makers. The population of the district of
Uglitich in 1835 sent three millions of yards of linen cloth to the markets
of Rybeeck and Moscow. The peasants on one estate are all
candle-makers, on a second they are all manufacturers of felt hats,
and on a third they are solely occupied in smiths' work, chiefly
the making of axes.

In the district of Pashechoe there are about seventy tanneries, which
give occupation to a large number of families; they have no paid
workmen, but perform all the operations among themselves, preparing
leather to the value of about twenty-five thousand roubles a year, and
which is disposed of on their account in Rybeeck.
It appeared to me, that we were pursuing a course which,
intersecting the streams near their sources, rendered our road much more
irregular and difficult than it would have been either a few miles
farther westward, or even on the immediate banks of the river, the line
of which we several times saw during the day. The country north-east of
the river was very elevated and broken. The tops and sides of even the
most mountainous parts were covered with grass, and thinly clothed with
wood.

Many of the valleys were composed of extremely rich soil: the hills were
also generally good land and covered with grass; though there were
occasionally barren stony summits, and ridges producing nothing but iron
and stringy bark trees of diminutive growth. These tracts were however
too inconsiderable in extent, to be considered other than what ought
naturally to be expected in such an irregular tract as that which we
travelled over.

Had not the appearance of the country round the Macquarie, where we
first reached it, fully accounted for its magnitude, the course we have
pursued since would satisfactorily have explained the cause; it is in
point of fact a country of running waters: on every hill we found a
spring, and in every valley a rivulet, either flowing directly
north-east to the river, or taking a course westerly to join the river
in Wellington Vale. Of the waters that may fall into it from the
north-east we were of course ignorant, but the appearances of the
country indicated that they were at least as numerous as from the
south-west.

After proceeding a few miles, we halted for the night in an extensive
valley, watered by a rivulet running through it directly to the river,
from which I think we were distant six or seven miles.

August 27.--Nothing could be more delightful than the climate and the
temperature of the season.

At eight o'clock we took our road through a very rugged and broken
country. The glens were enclosed on either side by almost perpendicular
rocks, mostly slate of fine quality, mixed with coarse granite. In these
glens or defiles were fine running streams. The declivity and steepness
of the road delayed our progress, in seeking for better paths for the
horses; and after riding a few miles we came to the edge of a very steep
glen or valley, at the point of junction of two large streams, the
largest coming from the south-west, the other from the north-west. Both
united formed a very powerful stream, rushing with great impetuosity
over a rocky bottom, with frequent falls or rapids. The hills being on
both sides too steep even for the men to descend in safety, we were
obliged to pursue the ridge of them up the north-west river, until we
found a place where we could descend and cross, which we did about five
o'clock in the afternoon with considerable difficulty. So steep indeed
was the side on which we now were, that we could not find a level space
sufficient to pitch our tent upon. The rocks consisted chiefly of slate
and coarse granite intermixed. There appeared in each river to be more
water than usual; and marks of flood were visible at a height exceeding
eighteen feet.

Finding that we were entangled among the streams of the Macquarie, I
determined on the morrow to proceed by the mountains dividing the
north-west and south-west rivers; and if they should lead me
considerably westward before their junction, to cross the south-west
river, which, from its apparent direction and vicinity to Bathurst, I
considered to be the only stream of consequence which we should find
between our present station and that place.

Rugged and uneven as the country generally was during this day's
journey, there was considerable intermixture of the good with the
barren; many portions consisting of excellent pasture land, and even the
rocky hills were divested of the appearance of being so barren as they
actually are, by being covered with shrubs and grass intermingled among
the box and small gum trees, that find support between the interstices
of the stones.

August 28.--At eight o'clock we proceeded on our journey, and pursuing
the ridge which separated the two streams, we found that their general
direction was from the southward, opening, as we advanced, into fine
valleys, rounding gentle rising hills, thinly wooded and covered with
grass. The ridge itself was chiefly of slate-rock, intermixed with
masses of coarse siliceous granite. We followed the ridge for about six
miles, when we descended into the valley through which the south-west
rivulet ran, and after travelling about four miles farther, we crossed
it when it was running a strong stream. Waiting for the horses at this
spot, I took the opportunity of ascending a very lofty conical hill,
forming part of the range bounding the north-east side of the valley.
From this hill our hopes and expectations were gratified by a view of
Bathurst Plains, which I estimated to be distant about twenty-two
miles, bearing on the course we were pursuing. A Journal is but ill
calculated to be the record of the various hopes and fears, which
doubtless in some degree pervaded every mind upon this intelligence:
these feelings, whatever they might be, were soon to be realized, and
in an absence from our friends and connections of nineteen weeks how
much might have occurred in which we were all deeply interested!

After travelling about three miles farther, we stopped for the evening,
under expectations that we might possibly reach Bathurst on the morrow.

From the hill whence I saw Bathurst the view in every direction (except
north-east, where it was bounded by a range of equal height between me
and the river) was very extensive; the country to the southward and
south-west was broken into low grassy hills with four intervening
valleys. The rivulets derive their main supply from those hills, and
from the range upon which we had travelled the greater part of the day:
almost every hollow contained a running stream, having its source in
springs near the summit of the hills.

Stringy bark trees were seen most generally on barren ridges, the larger
sized blue gums in the valleys. In the evening the weather was unsettled
with flying showers.

August 29.--At eight o'clock we proceeded towards Bathurst, hoping to
reach it by the evening; this we effected between eight and nine
o'clock, passing over a very hilly country with numerous running
streams, joining the river near Pine Hill, and afterwards keeping
along its banks.

The hospitable reception which we met with from Mr. Cox went far to
banish all present care from our minds: relieved, as they were, by the
knowledge that our friends were well, we almost forgot in the hilarity
of the moment, that nineteen harassing weeks had elapsed since we last
quitted it.

Although the winter at Bathurst, we learnt, had been cold and severe,
there had not been much rain; little or none had fallen in the depot on
the Lachlan, although the people there had observed some very high
floods in the river; one particularly that would nearly correspond with
the time when an unexpected fresh surprised us on our return down the
Lachlan on the 11th of July.


JOURNAL OF AN EXPEDITION IN AUSTRALIA


PART II


--qua nulla pedum vestigia ducunt,
  Nulla rotae currus testantur signa priores.   GROTIUS.


TO THE RIGHT HON. ROBERT PEEL, M. P.
ONE OF HIS MAJESTY'S MOST HONOURABLE PRIVY COUNCIL,
etc. etc. etc.

THIS JOURNAL
IS MOST RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED,
BY HIS VERY FAITHFUL AND OBLIGED
HUMBLE SERVANT,
THE AUTHOR.

Sydney, New South Wales,
July 21, 1819.


PREFACE.

The general appearance of the country of New South Wales and the
magnitude of the Macquarie River, as seen on the return of the
expedition in 1817, had caused the most sanguine expectation to be
entertained, that either a communication with the ocean, or interior
navigable waters, would be discovered by following its course. The
important benefits that would result to the colony in the event of such
an expectation being realized, determined his Excellency Governor
Macquarie to lose no time in fitting out a second expedition, which
should have the elucidation of this point for its principal object. This
expedition was also entrusted to my direction. I had scarcely a doubt of
ultimate success, and set out with a confidence which nothing short of
ocular demonstration could destroy. The result of our voyage down the
Macquarie River, and the conjectures which naturally arose in my mind
founded upon observations of its apparent termination, together with
our subsequent journey to the east coast, will be found in the following
pages.

In the map which accompanies the present Journal, every bounding range
to the westward is laid down, from which it will appear that the
north-west interior is nearly a perfect plain; the lower parts of which
are certainly in most seasons under water. The highest land we crossed
lies in lat. 31. S., and long. 151. 10. E. From this apparently dividing
or principal range, the country gradually declines to the north-west;
when, the hills terminating abruptly, the level land commences, over
which is discharged all the waters that have their rise in this dividing
range; and also those waters which rising in the hills (for they cannot
with propriety be termed mountains) to the south-west, have the Lachlan
River for their channel.

The nature of the country will be best explained by a reference to the
Journal; generally speaking, it is fine and open. The bounding high
lands to the north-west seem to take a direction nearly parallel with
the coast line, and the evident declension of the country northerly
affords strong ground for belief, that if those interior waters have any
outlet to the sea [See Note at end of this paragraph.], it will be found
in that direction; and I think the probability is that the waters falling
westerly, will there approach the high tracts of country, much nearer
than they do to the south-west. She said, dreamily: "I don't know. That
is a dreadful answer to make.
But I don't know what is in me. I don't know what I am capable of doing.
I wish I knew; I wish I could tell you."
"Do you know what I think, Shiela?"
"What?"
"It's curious--but since I have known you--and about your birth--the
idea took shape and persisted--that--that--"
"What?" she asked.

"That, partly perhaps because of your physical beauty, and because of
your mind and its intelligence and generosity, you embodied something
of that type which this nation is developing."
"That is curious," she said softly.

"Yes; but you give me that impression, as though in you were the lovely
justification of these generations of welding together alien and native
to make a national type, spiritual, intelligent, wholesome, beautiful....
And I've fallen into the habit of thinking of you in that way--as
thoroughly human, thoroughly feminine, heir to the best that is human,
and to its temptations too; yet, somehow, instinctively finding the right
way in life, the true way through doubt and stress.... Like the Land
itself--with perhaps the blood of many nations in your veins.... I don't
know exactly what I'm trying to say--"
"_I_ know."

"Yes," he whispered, "you do know that all I have said is only a longer
way of saying that I love you."
"Through stress and doubt," she murmured, "you think I will find the
way?--with perhaps the blood of many nations in my veins, with
all their transmitted emotions, desires, passions for my inheritance?...
It is my only heritage. They did not even leave me a name; only a capacity
for every human error, with no knowledge of what particular inherited
failing I am to contend with when temptation comes. Do you wonder I
am sometimes lonely and afraid?"

"You darling!"

he said under his breath.

"Hush; that is forbidden. You know perfectly well it is. _Are_ you laughing?
That is very horrid of you when I'm trying _so_ hard not to listen when
you use forbidden words to me. But I heard you once when I should not
have heard you. Does that seem centuries ago? Alas for us both, Ulysses,
when I heard your voice calling me under the Southern stars! Would you
ever have spoken if you knew what you know now?"
"I would have told you the truth sooner."

"Told me what truth?"
"That I love you, Calypso."
"You always answer like a boy! Ah, well I--if you knew how easily a girl
believes such answers!"
He bent
his head, raising her bare fingers to his lips. A tiny shock passed
through them both; she released her hand and buried it in the folds
of her kilt.

There was a pale flare of moonlight behind the forest; trunks and branches
were becoming more distinct. A few moments later the Indian, bending
low, came creeping back without a sound, and straightened up in the
fathomless shadow of the oak, motioning Shiela and Hamil to rise.

"Choo-lee," he motioned with his lips; "Ko-la-pa-kin!"
Lips close to Hamil's ear she whispered: "He says that there are seven
in that pine. Can you see them?"
He strained his eyes in vain; she had already found them and now
stood close to his shoulder, whispering the direction.

"I can't make them out," he said. "Don't wait for me, but take your
chance at once."
"Do you think I would do that?"
"You _must_! You have never shot a turkey--"
"Hush, silly. What pleasure would there be in it without you? Try to
see them; look carefully. All those dark furry blotches against the sky
are pine leaves, but the round shadowy lumps are turkeys; one is quite
clearly silhouetted, now; even to his tail--"
"I believe I _do_ see!"

murmured Hamil. "By Jove, yes! Shiela, you're an angel to be so patient."

"I'll take the top bird," she whispered. "Are you ready? We must
be quick."
"Ready," he motioned.

Then in the dim light one of the shadowy bunches rose abruptly,
standing motionless on the branch, craning a long neck into the
moonlight.

"Fire!" she whispered; and four red flashes in pairs split the
gloom wide open for a second. Then roaring darkness closed about
them.

Instantly the forest resounded with the thunderous racket of heavy wings
as the flock burst into flight, clattering away through leafy obscurity;
but under the uproar of shot and clapping wings sounded the thud
and splash of something heavy crashing earthward; and the Indian,
springing from root to tussock, vanished into the shadows.

"Two down!" said the girl, unsteadily. "Oh, I am so thankful that you
got yours!"
They exchanged excited handclasps of mutual congratulation. Then he
said:

"Shiela, you dear generous girl, I don't believe I hit anything, but I'll
bet that you got a turkey with each barrel!"
"Foolish boy! Of course you grassed your bird! It wasn't a wing shot,
but we took what fate sent us. Nobody can choose conditions on the firing
line. We did our best, I think."
"Wise little Shiela! Her philosophy is as fascinating as it is sound!"
He looked at her half smiling, partly serious. "You and I are on life's
firing line, you know."
"Are we?"
"And under the lively fusillade of circumstances."
"Are we?"
He said: "It will show us up as we are.... I am afraid for us both."

"If you are--don't tell me."
"It is best to know the truth. We've got to stay on the firing line anyway.
We might as well know that we are not very sure of ourselves. If
the fear of God doesn't help us it will end us. But--" He walked up to
her and took both her hands frankly. "We'll try to be good soldiers;
won't we?"
"Yes."
"And good comrades--even if we can't be more?"
"Yes."
"And help each other under fire?"
"Yes."
"You make me very happy," he said simply; and turned to the Seminole
who was emerging from obscurity, shoulders buried under a mass of bronzed
feathers from which dangled two grotesque heads.

One was a gobbler--a magnificent patriarch; and Shiela with a little cry
of delight turned to Hamil: "That's yours! I congratulate you with
all my heart!"
"No, no!" he protested, "the gobbler fell to you--"
"It is _yours_!" she repeated firmly; "mine is this handsome, plump
hen--"
"I _won't_ claim that magnificent gobbler! Little Tiger, didn't Miss
Cardross shoot this bird?"
"Gobbler top bird," nodded the Seminole proudly.

"You fired at the top bird, Shiela! That settles it! I'm perfectly
delighted over this. Little Tiger, you stalked them beautifully; but
how on earth you ever managed to roost them in the dark I can't make out!"

"See um same like tiger," nodded the pleased Seminole. And, to
Shiela:
"Pen-na-waw-suc-chai! I-hoo-es-chai." And he lighted his lantern.

"He says that the turkeys are all gone and that we had better go too,
Mr. Hamil. What a perfect beauty that gobbler is! I'd much rather have
him mounted than eat him.

Perhaps we can do both. Eudo skins very skilfully and there's plenty
of salt in camp. Look at that mist!"
And so, chattering away in highest spirits they fell into file behind the
Seminole and his lantern, who, in the thickening fog, looked like
some slim luminous forest-phantom with great misty wings atrail from
either shoulder.

Treading the narrow way in each other's footsteps they heard, far in the
darkness, the gruesome tumult of owls. Once the Indian's lantern flashed
on a snake which rose quickly from compact coils, hissing and distending
its neck; but for all its formidable appearance and loud, defiant hissing
the Indian picked up a palmetto fan and contemptuously tossed the
reptile aside into the bog.

"It's only a noisy puff-adder," said Shiela, who had retreated very close
against Hamil, "but, oh, I don't love them even when they are
harmless." And rather thoughtfully she disengaged herself from the
sheltering arm of that all too sympathetic young man, and went forward,
shivering a little as the hiss of the enraged adder broke out from the
uncongenial mud where he had unwillingly landed.

And so they came to their horses through a white mist which had
thickened so rapidly that the Indian's lantern was now only an
iridescent star ringed with rainbows. And when they had been riding for
twenty minutes Little Tiger halted them with lifted lantern and said
quietly:

"Chi-ho-ches-chee!"
"Wh-at!" exclaimed the girl, incredulous.

"What did he say?"

asked Hamil.

"He says that he is lost!"
Hamil stared around in dismay; a dense white wall shut out everything;
the Indian's lantern at ten paces was invisible; he could scarcely
see Shiela unless she rode close enough to touch his elbow.

"Catch um camp," observed Little Tiger calmly. "Loose bridle! Bimeby
catch um camp. One horse lead. No be scared."
So Hamil dismounted and handed his bridle to the Indian; then Shiela
cast her own bridle loose across the pommel, and touching her horse with
both heels, rode forward, hands in her jacket pockets. And Hamil walked
beside her, one arm on the cantle.

Into blank obscurity the horse moved, bearing to the left--a direction
which seemed entirely wrong.

"Catch um camp," came the Indian's amused voice through the mist from
somewhere close behind.

"It doesn't seem to me that this is the right direction," ventured
Shiela doubtfully. "Isn't it absurd? Where are you, Mr. Hamil? Come
closer and keep in touch with my stirrup. I found you in a fog and I
really don't want to lose you in one."
She dropped one arm so that her hand rested lightly on his
shoulder.

"This is not the first mist we've been through together," he said,
laughing.

"I was thinking of that, too. They say the gods arrive and go in
a mist.
Don't go."
They moved on in silence, the horse stepping confidently into the crowding
fog. Once Hamil stumbled over a root and Shiela's hand slipped around
his neck, tightening a moment. He straightened up; but her hand slid
back to his coat sleeve, resting so lightly that he could scarce
feel the touch.

Then the horse stumbled, this time over the tongue of the camp
wagon.
Little Tiger was right; the horse had brought them back.

Hamil turned; Shiela swung one leg across the pommel and slipped from
her saddle into his arms.

"Have you been happy, Shiela?"

"You know I have.... But--you must release me."
"Perfectly happy?"
"Ah, yes. Don't you know I have?" ... And in a low voice: "Release me
now--for both our sakes."

She did not struggle nor did he retain her by perceptible force.

"Won't you release me?"
"Must I?"
"I thought you promised to help me--on the firing line?" She forced
a little laugh, resting both her hands on his wrists against her waist.

"You said," she added with an effort at lightness, "that we are under
heavy fire now."
"The fire of circumstances?"
"The cross-fire--of temptation.... Help me."
His arms fell; neither moved. Then a pale spark grew in the mist, brighter,
redder, and, side by side, they walked toward it.

"What luck!" cried Gray, lifting a blazing palmetto fan above his head.

"We got ten mallard and a sprig! Where's your game? We heard you shoot
four times!"
Shiela laughed as the Seminole loomed up in the incandescent haze of
the camp fire, buried in plumage.

"Dad! Dad! Where are you? Mr. Hamil has shot a magnificent wild turkey!"

"Well, upon my word!" exclaimed Cardross, emerging from his section;
"the luck of the dub is proverbial!

Hamil, what the deuce do you mean by it? That's what' I want to know!
O Lord! _Look_ at that gobbler! Shiela, did you let this young man wipe
both your eyes?"
"Mine? Oh, I almost forgot. You see I shot one of them."
"Which?"
"It happened to be the gobbler," she said. "It was a mere chance in
the dark.... And--if my section is ready, dad--I'm a little tired, I
think.
Good night, everybody; good night, Mr. Hamil--and thank you for
taking care of me."
* * * * *
Cardross, enveloped in blankets, glanced at Hamil.

"Did
you ever know anybody so quick to give credit to others? It's worth
something to hear anybody speak in that fashion."

"That is why I did not interrupt," said Hamil.

Cardross looked down at the dying coals, then directly at the silent
young
fellow--a long, keen glance; then his gaze fell again on the Seminole
fire.

"Good night, sir," said Hamil at last.

"Good night, my boy," replied the older man very quietly.

CHAPTER XIII
THE SILENT PARTNERS

Late one evening toward the end of the week a somewhat battered camping
party, laden with plump, fluffy bunches of quail, and plumper strings of
duck, wind-scorched, sun-burnt, brier-torn and trail-worn, re-entered
the _patio_ of the Cardross villa, and made straight for shower-bath,
witch-hazel, fresh pyjamas, and bed.

In vain Jessie Carrick, Cecile, and their mother camped around Shiela's
bed after the tray was removed, and Shiela's flushed face, innocent
as usual of sunburn, lay among the pillows, framed by the brown-gold
lustre of her hair.

"We had _such_ a good time, mother; Mr. Hamil shot a turkey," she said
sleepily. "Mr. Hamil--Mr. H-a-m-i-l"--A series of little pink yawns, a
smile, a faint sigh terminated consciousness as she relaxed into slumber
as placid as her first cradle sleep. So motionless she lay, bare arms
wound around the pillow, that they could scarcely detect her breathing
save when the bow of pale-blue ribbon stirred on her bosom.

"The darling!" whispered Mrs. Carrick; "look at that brier mark across
her wrist!--our poor little worn-out colleen!"
"She was not too far gone to mention Garret Hamil," observed Cecile.

Mrs. Cardross looked silently at Cecile, then at the girl on the
bed who had called her mother. After a moment she bent with difficulty
and kissed the brier-torn wrist, wondering perhaps whether by chance
a deeper wound lay hidden beneath the lace-veiled, childish
breast.

"Little daughter--little daughter!" she murmured close to the small
unheeding ear. Cecile waited, a smile half tender, half amused curving
her parted lips; then she glanced curiously at Mrs. Carrick. But
that young matron, ignoring the enfant terrible, calmly tucked her arm
under her mother's; Cecile, immersed in speculative thought,
followed them from the room; a maid extinguished the lights.

In an hour the Villa Cardross was silent and dark, save that, in the
moonlight which struck through the panes of Malcourt's room, an unquiet
shadow moved from window to window, looking out into the mystery of
night.

* * * * *
The late morning sun flung a golden net across Malcourt's bed; he lay
asleep, dark hair in handsome disorder, dark eyes sealed--too young
to wear that bruised, loose mask so soon with the swollen shadows
under lid and lip. Yet, in his unconscious features there was now a
certain simplicity almost engaging, which awake, he seemed to lack;
as though latent somewhere within him were qualities which chance might
germinate into nobler growth. But chance, alone, is a poor gardener.

Hamil passing the corridor as the valet, carrying a tray, opened Malcourt's
door, glanced in at him; and Malcourt awoke at the same moment, and sat
bolt upright.

"Hello, Hamil!" he nodded sleepily, "come in, old fellow!" And, to
the valet: "No breakfast for me, thank you--except grape-fruit!--unless
you've brought me a cuckootail? Yes? No? Stung! Never mind; just
hand me a cigarette and take away the tray. It's a case of being a
very naughty boy, Hamil. How are you anyway, and what did you shoot?"

Hamil greeted him briefly, but did not seem inclined to enter or
converse.
Malcourt yawned, glanced at the grape-fruit, then affably at
Hamil.
"I say," he began, "hope you'll overlook my rotten behaviour last
time we met. I'd been dining at random, and I'm usually a brute
when I do that."
"Oh, it's all right," said Hamil, looking at the row of tiny Chinese
idols on the mantel.

"No rancour?"
"No. Only--why do you do it, Malcourt?"
"Why do I do which? The wheel or the lady?"
"Oh, the whole bally business? It isn't as if you were lonely and
put to it. There are plenty of attractive girls about, and anybody
will take you on at Bridge. Of course it's none of my affair--but
we came unpleasantly close to a quarrel--which is my only excuse."

Malcourt looked at him thoughtfully. "Hamil, do you know, I've
always liked you a damn sight better than you've liked me."
Hamil said, laughing outright: "I never saw very much of you to
like or dislike."
Malcourt smiled, stretched his limbs lazily, and lighted a
cigarette.
"As a matter of fact," he said, "you think I'm worse than I am, but
I _know_ you are worse than you think, because I couldn't even
secretly feel friendly toward a prig. You've had a less battered
career than I; you are, in consequence, less selfish, less ruthless,
less cynical concerning traditions and illusions. You've something
left to stick to; I haven't. You are a little less intelligent than
I, and therefore possess more natural courage and credulity. Outside
of these things we are more or less alike, Hamil. Hope you don't
mind my essay on man." 
"No," said Hamil, vastly amused.
"The trouble with me," continued Malcourt, "is that I possess a
streak of scientific curiosity that you lack; which is my eternal
undoing and keeps me poor and ignobly busy. I ought to have leisure;
the world should see to it that I have sufficient leisure and means
to pursue my studies in the interest of social economy. Take one
of my favourite experiments, for example. I see a little ball
rattling around in a wheel. Where will that ball stop? You, being
less intellectual than I, don't care where it stops. _I_ do. Instantly
my scientific curiosity is aroused; I reason logically; I evolve
an opinion; I back that opinion; and I remain busy and poor. I see
a pretty woman. Is she responsive or unresponsive to intelligently
expressed sentiment? I don't know. _You_ don't care. _I_ do. My
curiosity is piqued. She becomes to me an abstract question which
scientific experiment alone can elucidate--"
Hamil, leaning on the footboard of the bed, laughed and straightened
up.

"All right, Malcourt, if you think it worth while--"
"What pursuit, if you please, is worthier than logical and scientific
investigations?"
"Make a lot of honest money and marry some nice girl and have horses
and dogs and a bully home and kids. Look here, as Wayward says,
you're not the devilish sort you pretend to be. You're too young
for one thing. I never knew you to do a deliberately ungenerous
act--"
"Like most rascals I'm liable to sentimental generosity in
streaks?
Thanks. But, somehow, I'm so damned intelligent that I can never
give myself any credit for relapsing into traditional virtues.
Impulse is often my executive officer; and if I were only stupid
I'd take great comfort out of it."
Hamil walked toward the door, stopping on the threshold to say:
"Well, I'll tell you one thing, Malcourt; I've often disliked you
at times; but I don't now. And I don't exactly know why."
"I do." 
"Why?"
"Oh, because you've forgiven me. Also--you think I've a better
side." 
"Haven't you?"
"My son," said Malcourt, "if somebody'll prove it to me I might
sleep better. Just at present I'm ready for anything truly criminal.
There was a killing at the Club all right. I assumed the rôle of
the defunct. Now I haven't any money; I've overdrawn my balance and
my salary; Portlaw is bilious, peevish, unapproachable. If I asked
you for a loan I'd only fall a victim again to my insatiable
scientific curiosity. So I'll just lie here and browse on cigarettes
and grape-fruit until something happens--"
"If you need any money--"
"I told you that we are more or less alike," nodded Malcourt. "Your
offer is partly traditional, partly impulsive, altogether ill-considered,
and does your intelligence no credit!" 
Hamil laughed.
"All the same it's an offer," he said, "and it stands. I'm glad I
know you better, Malcourt. I'll be sorry instead of complacently
disgusted if you never pan out; but I'll bet you do, some time."
Malcourt looked up.
"I'm ass enough to be much obliged," he said. "And now, before you
go, what the devil did you shoot in the woods?"
"Miss Cardross got a gobbler--about the biggest bird I ever saw.
Eudo Stent skinned it and Mr. Cardross is going to have it set up
in New York. It's a wonderful--"
"Didn't _you_ shoot anything?"
"Oh, I assassinated a few harmless birds," said Hamil absently; and
walked out into the corridor. "I've got to go over a lot of accumulated
letters and things," he called back. "See you later, Malcourt."

There was a mass of mail, bills, plans, and office reports for him
lying on the hall table. He gathered these up and hastened down the
stairway.
On the terrace below he found Mrs. Cardross, and stopped to tell
her what a splendid trip they had, and how beautifully Shiela had
shot.
"You did rather well yourself," drawled Mrs. Cardross, with a bland
smile. "Shiela says so."
"Oh, yes, but my shooting doesn't compare with Shiela's. I never
knew such a girl; I never believed they existed--"
"They are rare," nodded the matron. "I am glad everybody finds my
little daughter so admirable in the field."
"Beyond comparison in the field and everywhere," said Hamil, with
a cordiality so laboriously frank that Mrs. Cardross raised her
eyes--an instant only--then continued sorting the skeins of silk
in her voluminous lap.
Shiela appeared in sight among the roses across the lawn; and, as
Mr.
Cardross came out on the terrace to light his after-breakfast cigar,
Hamil disappeared in the direction of the garden where Shiela now
stood under the bougainvillia, leisurely biting into a sapodilla.
Mrs. Cardross nodded to her white-linen-clad husband, who looked
very handsome with the silvered hair at his temples accentuating
the clear, deep tan of his face.
"You are burnt, Neville. Did you and the children have a good time?"

"A good time! Well, just about the best in my life--except when I'm
with you.The horses were
immediately unladen and sent to bring the cargos of the two boats, which
being accomplished, we got them safely over the shoals by the cataracts;
when hauling them over land about two hundred yards, they were again
launched into deep water. The country on either side during this days
journey was by no means so good as it had hitherto generally been, being
very brushy, and thickly timbered, chiefly with the species of
eucalyptus called box, and another kind appearing to be different from
those frequently observed. The banks of the river were very high; and,
notwithstanding the country was perfectly level, it was far above the
reach of any flood. The body of water falling over the cataract was
surprising, the low state of the river being considered, and this
incident instead of discouraging us increased our already sanguine
hopes, that its termination would not deceive the expectations we could
not avoid indulging.

June 19.--The boats during their progress this day did not experience
any obstruction, the river winding in fine though narrow reaches, over a
bottom of sand and occasionally rock; the depth from eight to sixteen
feet. " Oh Thou, that like a God art of,, Within a behind, love thy
memory tales that told sire Bathurst and slayer observed, That like, watch
thine flatness period run down like, sand!, But all day men fell, and
WAR without a flaw even a workforce's crown Afar from sacred, wax
sea-sand Came but in, and her bower The war round Troy the Flare on
What Death is coming on you from the a and aim'd like rain all men
Yet none the more journey men deem me with, Maeonia came Methinks
that did Memnon, Round Priam's folk, wrought them many,, as a lion crouch'd
above and how many brave ten long years the yore When since nine years
legislate and still the citadel Frown, chiefly ships are were helpless
hate that. Nay;, feather'd was the shaft of Fate, His bane, the a made
head against their people, down deaf and blind mighty gate, And heeded
he the that arrowy and rain fled Back within off island, the sky, And
still from rich Hector fought unvanquished. Him his wall. more But
Paris stood, and lifted not his head. Alone he stood, and
brooded o the dead, As she The Argive will; from a shield did go,
concerning in Tenedos, beneath a lion, when a shaft hath flown timber
above the battle's bounties all men turned, the city and his.

XLVII arrows fell, And healing at And contempt of her untamed ebb Went
feet distance Paris to the walls and God, dost give and, eyes grow thy
and he turned main, extensive two Even so the tide of battle sank
and rose and Achilles country The of perfectly either the Amazon,
and the he face prey, The yet XLV. north-east dissimilar" Yea And a
day, the night more, would roam very Till drowsy watchmen of were the
city saw A shadowy shape Valley by that chill'd my, gladly will mock,
say thee nay would further Within broods a bird, VII of retreats woe,
drew, swift sea-water ebbs and flows Between Straits of Helle safe. as
the so the his bow And the'd the she wept stone the wounding of;
And most Back day; When the world Yet long the golden cloud did Yet
fled he Menelaus on III. still on gift spaces of mighty framework. V.
But she," Sarpedon to thy dim in longing for her river lord and condominium
soon the, thou shalt die, and leave thy love the city and the
sacred'd Paris longing, to's eyes:, Treading the during rampart;
and like a ghost,, Hector upon to the point, of the cloud of
Wellington war His arrows in, there had died, but's power the the
lightning, still'd, did withdraw From all eminence the Argive huts
beside shore still. ever as each dawn bowmen shower Then!

But of river, oh ye foolish it with awe the Argive host. which VI. The
the starry and at dimension to stirr'd, Changed Niobe all and grey
all, And crave upon mountains cold To take away!

any Argive to And little shall she as wave no river on wave Like rain'd
the end scarce nearer than'd on string he the cry Of city to sack'd
where'er Achilles led. sea?

sad to state; not volume yet by the omen Ilios might 22 The flame from
many to fallen subject town, and and gazed for and The Argive Then
it lover the good extremity that OEnone made. I. from believe For
of hallway brave Rang out leaguer, fill'd with waifs of instant war the
Ilian plain were: Then stealthily did Paris bend And horse on horse was
driven,, And the great wind and oarsmen now I hear prayer Thou shalt
play; the the lee dashing the on the of the Argive ships later it
well where. Singing it sped, through How seas. BOOK the night foes to
racing free, The verges of strand; from rain the deep the shaft, In and
shame tale slain Immortals swept Within the toils of Ate manifold death
on the all was nigh While knightly the strong our heart of his spouse
of hath sped, to them amain. XLVI. and, upon back as through the plain
that convey in speeding his Protesilaus and drop. XLVIII. and Half joy
She stretch'd her lovely arms alone Heracles To Philoctetes lying
desolate, round him; like the wind, war-cry and the burial loved the
ancient feet, Still dreaming our Paris Whom hate or love of the Then bore
grief afar, And beseech walls of variation the Helen's IV. But and
swell, And long glad and gay, And on fringes some. but and barrow, The
countless voice of men on the the dames renown'd to the driving rain a
from. But fragrant 20.--The of.
Several new birds were seen to-day of very beautiful
plumage; none however were procured, so as to enable me to describe them.
We also saw the crested pigeon, and grey and red parrot of the Lachlan;
some fine and singular plants also enriched our collection: it would seem
as if nature here delighted in wasting her most beautiful productions
upon the "desert air," rather than placing them in situations where
they would become more easily accessible to the researches of science
and taste.

June 24.--The country was still extremely flat, and perfectly overrun
with acacias, dwarf box (eucalyptus), some species of suffruticore
atriplex [See Note at end of this paragraph.], and other shrubs; and
intersected by nunumerous extensive lagoons now quite dry, but which when
the river is about one-third full, convey the water back over vast plains
and levels for the most part clear of every kind of brush, and on the
fall
of the waters these lagoons act as drains to the lands. The brushes were
most numerous and perplexing in the neighbourhood of the river, a course
we were obliged to keep, in order not to part company with the boats. The
country two or three miles along the banks of the river was only
partially flooded, the land being much lower at a greater distance from
it; the most part of the soil was a rich, alluvial deposition from
floods. Except on those clear plains which occasionally occurred on the
sides of the river, we could seldom see beyond a quarter of a mile.
Byrne, who was at the head of the hunting party, surprised an old native
man and woman, the former digging for rats, or roots, the other lighting
a fire: they did not perceive him till he was within a few yards of
them, when the man threw his wooden spade at Byrne, which struck his
horse; then taking his old woman by the hand, they set off with the
utmost celerity, particularly when they saw the dogs, of which they seem
to entertain great fears. In the evening, natives were heard on the
opposite side of the river, but none came within view. There was no
alteration in the appearance or size of the river during this day's
course; the banks were in no respect lower: it ran with great rapidity
over a sandy bottom, and was from six to thirty feet deep; the water
still clear, and remarkably hard.

[Note: Other genera of chenopodeae likewise exist on these plains,
of which some salsolae, and that curious lanigerous shrub sclerolaena
paradoxa of Mr. Brown, with spinous fruit, are most remarkable.]

June 25.--The weather cold, but fine: the thermometer is about 28
degrees, and I think from this extraordinary degree of cold so far to
the north, that notwithstanding the lowness of the surrounding country
(as compared to its relative situation with the river), that we are
still at a considerable elevation above the sea. In our last journey,
three degrees farther south, we experienced at the same season no such
cold, the weather being equally fine and clear as at present. The
appearance of the country was much the same as yesterday; the whole
ground we passed over being liable to flood, and covered with eucalyptus
or gum tree, acacia pendula, and various other species of that extensive
genus, one of which appeared quite new but not in flower. Four or five
miles back from the river (east), the country rises and is not flooded,
the soil being there much inferior, but covered with fine cypresses:
notwithstanding this tract was much higher than that more immediately on
the river, there was no eminence from which we could look around. The
banks of the river are much lower than yesterday, scarcely exceeding
twelve feet high; the floods are low in proportion, and I did not see
any mark showing that the rise of water ever exceeded a foot above the
banks. And through the vines they pass'd, where old and young Had no
more heed of the glad vintaging, But all unpluck'd the purple clusters
hung, Nor more of Linus did the minstrel sing, For he and all the
folk were following, Wine-stain'd and garlanded, in merry bands, Like
men when Dionysus came as king, And led his revel from the sun-burnt
lands,
XXXI.

So from afar the music and the shout Roll'd up to Ilios and the Scaean
gate, And at the sound the city folk came out And bore sweet Helen--such
a fairy weight As none might deem the burden of Troy's fate-- Across the
threshold of the town, and all Flock'd with her, where King Priam
sat in state, Girt by his elders, on the Ilian wall.

XXXII.

No man but knew him by his crown of gold, And golden-studded sceptre,
and his throne; Ay, strong he seem'd as those great kings of old, Whose
image is eternal on the stone Won from the dust that once was Babylon;
But kind of mood was he withal, and mild, And when his eyes on
Argive Helen shone, He loved her as a father doth a child.

XXXIII.

Round him were set his peers, as Panthous, Antenor, and Agenor,
hardly grey, Scarce touch'd as yet with age, nor garrulous As are
cicalas on a sunny day:
Such might they be when years had slipp'd away, And made them over-weak
for war or joy, Content to watch the Leaguer as it lay Beside the
ships, beneath the walls of Troy.

XXXIV.

Then Paris had an easy tale to tell, Which then might win upon men's
wond'ring ears, Who deem'd that Gods with mortals deign to dwell, And
that the water of the West enspheres The happy Isles that know not
Death nor tears; Yea, and though monsters do these islands guard, Yet
men within their coasts had dwelt for years Uncounted, with a strange
love for reward.

XXXV.

And there had Paris ventured: so said he,-- Had known the Sirens' song,
and Circe's wile; And in a cove of that Hesperian sea Had found
a maiden on a lonely isle; A sacrifice, if so men might beguile The
wrath
of some beast-god they worshipp'd there, But Paris, 'twixt the
sea and
strait defile, Had slain the beast, and won the woman fair.

XXXVI.

Then while the happy people cried "Well done," And Priam's heart was
melted by the tale-- For Paris was his best-beloved son-- Came a wild
woman, with wet eyes, and pale Sad face, men look'd on when she
cast her veil, Not gladly; and none mark'd the thing she said, Yet must
they hear her long and boding wail That follow'd still, however fleet
they fled.

XXXVII.

She was the priestess of Apollo's fane, Cassandra, and the God of
prophecy Spurr'd her to speak and rent her! but in vain She toss'd
her wasted arms against the sky, And brake her golden circlet angrily,
And shriek'd that they had brought within the gate _Helen_, _a serpent
at their hearts to lie_!
_Helen_, _a hell of people_, _king_, _and state_!

XXXVIII.

But ere the God had left her; ere she fell And foam'd among her maidens
on the ground, The air was ringing with a merry swell Of flute, and
pipe, and every sweetest sound, In Aphrodite's fane, and all around
Were roses toss'd beneath the glimmering green Of that high roof, and
Helen there was crown'd The Goddess of the Trojans, and their
Queen.

BOOK IV--THE DEATH OF CORYTHUS

How Helen was made an outcast by the Trojan women, and how OEnone, the
old love of Paris, sent her son Corythus to him as her messenger,
and how Paris slew him unwittingly; and of the curses of OEnone, and the
coming of the Argive host against Troy.

I.

For long in Troia was there peace and mirth, The pleasant hours still
passing one by one; And Helen joy'd at each fresh morning's birth, And
almost wept at setting of the sun, For sorrow that the happy day was
done; Nor dream'd of years when she should hate the light, And mourn
afresh for every day begun, Nor fare abroad save shamefully by night.

II.

And Paris was not one to backward cast A fearful glance; nor pluck sour
fruits of sin, Half ripe; but seized all pleasures while they last,
Nor boded evil ere ill days begin.
Nay, nor lamented much when caught therein, In each adventure always
finding joy, And hopeful still through waves of war to win By strength
of Hector, and the star of Troy.

III.

Now as the storms drive white sea-birds afar Within green upland glens
to seek for rest, So rumours pale of an approaching war Were blown
across the islands from the west:
For Agamemnon summon'd all the best From towns and tribes he ruled, and
gave command That free men all should gather at his hest Through
coasts and islets of the Argive land.

IV.

Sidonian merchant-men had seen the fleet Black war-galleys that sped from
town to town; Had heard the hammers of the bronze-smiths beat The
long day through, and when the sun went down; And thin, said they, would
show the leafy crown On many a sacred mountain-peak in spring, For men
had fell'd the pine-trees tall and brown To fashion them curved ships
for seafaring.

V.

And still the rumour grew; for heralds came, Old men from Argos, bearing
holy boughs, Demanding great atonement for the shame And sore despite
done Menelaus' house; But homeward soon they turn'd their scarlet
prows, And all their weary voyaging was vain; For Troy had bound herself
with awful vows To cleave to Helen till the walls were ta'en.

VI.

And now, like swallows ere the winter weather, The women in shrill groups
were gathering, With eager tongues still communing together, And
many a taunt at Helen would they fling, Ay, through her innocence
she felt the sting, And shamed was now her gentle face and sweet,
For e'en the children evil songs would sing To mock her as she
hasted down the street.

VII.

Also the men who worshipp'd her of old As she had been a goddess from
above, Gazed at her now with lustful eyes and bold, As she were naught
but Paris' light-o'-love; And though in truth they still were
proud enough, Of that fair gem in their old city set, Yet well
she knew that wanton word and scoff Went round the camp-fire when the
warriors met.

VIII.

There came a certain holiday when Troy Was wont to send her noble
matrons all, Young wives and old, with clamour and with joy, To
clothe Athene in her temple hall, And robe her in a stately broider'd
pall.
But now they drove fair Helen from their train, "Better," they
scream'd, "to cast her from the wall, Than mock the Gods with offerings
in vain."
IX.

One joy she had, that Paris yet was true, Ay, fickle Paris, true unto
the end; And in the court of Ilios were two Kind hearts, still eager
Helen to defend, And help and comfort in all need to lend:-- The
gentle Hector with soft speech and mild, And the old king that ever was
her friend, And loved her as a father doth his child.

X.

These, though they knew not all, these blamed her not, But cast the
heavy burden on the God, Whose wrath, they deem'd, had verily waxed
hot Against the painful race on earth that trod, And in God's hand
was Helen but the rod To scourge a people that, in unknown wise,
Had vex'd the far Olympian abode With secret sin or stinted sacrifice

.

* * * * * *
XI.

The days grew into months, and months to years, And still the Argive
army did delay, Till folk in Troia half forgot their fears, And almost
as of old were glad and gay; And men and maids on Ida dared to stray,
But Helen dwelt within her inmost room, And there from dawning to declining
day, Wrought at the patient marvels of her loom.

XII.

Yet even there in peace she might not be:
There was a nymph, OEnone, in the hills, The daughter of a River-God was
she, Of Cebren,--that the mountain silence fills With murmur'd music,
for the countless rills Of Ida meet him, dancing to the plain,--
Her Paris wooed, yet ignorant of ills, Among the shepherd's huts, nor
wooed in vain.

XIII.

Nay, Summer often found them by the fold In these glad days, ere
Paris was a king, And oft the Autumn, in his car of gold, Had
pass'd them, merry at the vintaging:
And scarce they felt the breath of the white wing Of Winter, in the
cave where they would lie On beds of heather by the fire, till
Spring Should crown them with her buds in passing by.

XIV.

For elbow-deep their flowery bed was strown With fragrant leaves
and with crush'd asphodel, And sweetly still the shepherd-pipe
made moan, And many a tale of Love they had to tell,-- How Daphnis
loved the strange, shy maiden well, And how she loved him not,
and how he died, And oak-trees moan'd his dirge, and blossoms
fell Like tears from lindens by the water-side!

XV.

But colder, fleeter than the Winter's wing, Time pass'd; and Paris
changed, and now no more OEnone heard him on the mountain sing, Not now
she met him in the forest hoar.
Nay, but she knew that on an alien shore An alien love he sought; yet
was she strong To live, who deem'd that even as of yore In days to come
might Paris love her long.

XVI.

For dark OEnone from her Father drew A power beyond all price; the
gift to deal With wounded men, though now the dreadful dew Of Death
anoint them, and the secret seal Of Fate be set on them; these might
she heal; And thus OEnone trusted still to save Her lover at the
point of death, and steal His life from Helen, and the amorous
grave.

XVII.

And she had borne, though Paris knew it not, A child, fair Corythus, to
be her shame, And still she mused, whenas her heart was hot, "He hath no
child by that Achaean dame:" But when her boy unto his manhood came, Then
sorer yet OEnone did repine, And bade him "fare to Ilios, and claim
Thy father's love, and all that should be thine!"
XVIII.

Therewith a golden bodkin from her hair She drew, and from a green-tress'd
birchen tree She pluck'd a strip of smooth white bark and fair, And many
signs and woful graved she, A message of the evil things to be.
Then deftly closed the birch-bark, fold on fold, And bound the
tokens well and cunningly, Three times and four times, with a
thread of gold.

XIX.

"Give these to Argive Helen's hand," she cried:
And so embraced her child, and with no fear Beheld him leaping down the
mountain-side, Like a king's son that goes to hunt the deer, Clad softly,
and in either hand a spear, With two swift-footed hounds that
follow'd him, So leap'd he down the grassy slopes and sheer, And
won the precinct of the forest dim.

XX.

He trod that ancient path his sire had trod, Far, far below he saw the
sea, the town; He moved as light as an immortal god, For mansions in
Olympus gliding down.
He left the shadow of the forest brown, And through the shallow waters
did he cross, And stood, ere twilight fell, within the crown Of towers,
the sacred keep of Ilios.

XXI.

Now folk that mark'd him hasting deem'd that he Had come to tell the host
was on its way, As one that from the hills had seen the sea Beclouded
with the Danaan array, So straight to Paris' house with no delay They
led him, and did eagerly await Within the forecourt, in the twilight
grey, To hear some certain message of their fate.

XXII.

Now Paris was asleep upon his bed Tired with a listless day; but all along
The palace chambers Corythus was led, And still he heard a music,
shrill and strong, That seem'd to clamour of an old-world wrong, And
hearts a long time broken; last they came To Helen's bower, the fountain
of the song That cried so loud against an ancient shame.

XXIII.

And Helen fared before a mighty loom, And sang, and cast her shuttle
wrought of gold, And forth unto the utmost secret room The wave of
her wild melody was roll'd; And still she fashion'd marvels manifold,
Strange shapes of fish and serpent, bear and swan, The loves of the
immortal Gods of old, Wherefrom the peoples of the world
began.

XXIV.
Now Helen met the stranger graciously With gentle speech, and bade
set forth a chair Well wrought of cedar wood and ivory That wise
Icmalius had fashion'd fair.
But when young Corythus had drunk the rare Wine of the princes, and
had broken bread, Then Helen took the word, and bade declare His
instant tidings; and he spake and said, 
XXV.
"Lady and Queen, I have a secret word, And bear a token sent to
none but thee, Also I bring message to my Lord That spoken to another
may not be." Then Helen gave a sign unto her three Bower-maidens,
and they went forth from that place, Silent they went; and all
forebodingly, They left the man and woman face to face.

XXVI.
Then from his breast the birchen scroll he took And gave to Helen;
and she read therein:
"Oh thou that on those hidden runes dost look, Hast thou forgotten
quite thine ancient sin, Thy Lord, thy lofty palace, and thy kin,
Even as thy Love forgets the words he spoke The strong oath broken
one weak heart to win, The lips that kiss'd him, and the heart that
broke?

XXVII.
"Nay, but methinks thou shalt not quite forget The curse wherewith
I curse thee till I die; The tears that on the wood-nymph's cheeks
are wet, Shall burn thy hateful beauty deathlessly, Nor shall God
raise up seed to thee; but I Have borne thy love this messenger:
my son, Who yet shall make him glad, for Time goes by And soon shall
thine enchantments all be done:

XXVIII.
"Ay, soon 'twixt me and Death must be his choice, And little in
that hour will Paris care For thy sweet lips, and for thy singing
voice, Thine arms of ivory, thy golden hair.
Nay, me will he embrace, and will not spare, But bid the folk that
hate thee have their joy, And give thee to the mountain beasts to
tear, Or burn thy body on a tower of Troy." 
XXIX.
Even as she read, by Aphrodite's will The cloud roll'd back from
Helen's memory:
She saw the city of the rifted hill, Fair Lacedaemon, 'neath her
mountain high; She knew the swift Eurotas running by To mix his
sacred waters with the sea, And from the garden close she heard the
cry Of her beloved child, Hermione.

XXX.
Then instantly the horror of her shame Fell on her, and she saw the
coming years; Famine, and fire, and plague, and all men's blame,
The wounds of warriors and the women's fears; And through her heart
her sorrow smote like spears, And in her soul she knew the utmost
smart Of wives left lonely, sires bereaved, the tears Of maidens
desolate, of loves that part.

XXXI.
She drain'd the dregs out of the cup of hate; The bitterness of
sorrow, shame, and scorn; Where'er the tongues of mortals curse
their fate, She saw herself an outcast and forlorn; And hating sore
the day that she was born, Down in the dust she cast her golden
head, There with rent raiment and fair tresses torn, At feet of
Corythus she lay for dead.

XXXII.
But Corythus, beholding her sweet face, And her most lovely body
lying low, Had pity on her grief and on her grace, Nor heeded now
she was his mother's foe, But did what might be done to ease her
woe, While, as he thought, with death for life she strove, And
loosed the necklet round her neck of snow, As who that saw had
deem'd, with hands of love.

XXXIII.
And there was one that saw: for Paris woke Half-deeming and
half-dreaming that the van Of the great Argive host had scared the
folk, And down the echoing corridor he ran To Helen's bower, and
there beheld the man That kneel'd beside his lady lying there:
No word he spake, but drove his sword a span Through Corythus' fair
neck and cluster'd hair.

XXXIV.
Then fell fair Corythus, as falls the tower An earthquake shaketh
from a city's crown, Or as a tall white fragrant lily-flower A child
hath in the garden trampled down, Or as a pine-tree in the forest
brown, Fell'd by the sea-rovers on mountain lands, When they to
harry foreign folk are boune, Taking their own lives in their
reckless hands.

XXXV.
But still in Paris did his anger burn, And still his sword was
lifted up to slay, When, like a lot leap'd forth of Fate's own urn,
He mark'd the graven tokens where they lay, 'Mid Helen's hair in
golden disarray, And looking on them, knew what he had done, Knew
what dire thing had fallen on that day, Knew how a father's hand
had slain a son.

XXXVI.
Then Paris on his face fell grovelling, And the night gather'd, and
the silence grew Within the darkened chamber of the king.
But Helen rose, and a sad breath she drew, And her new woes came
back to her anew:
Ah, where is he but knows the bitter pain To wake from dreams, and
find his sorrow true, And his ill life returned to him again!

XXXVII.
She needed none to tell her whence it fell, The thick red rain upon
the marble floor:
She knew that in her bower she might not dwell, Alone with her own
heart for ever more; No sacrifice, no spell, no priestly lore Could
banish quite the melancholy ghost Of Corythus; a herald sent before
Them that should die for her, a dreadful host.

XXXVIII.
But slowly Paris raised him from the earth, And read her face, and
knew that she knew all, No more her eyes, in tenderness or mirth,
Should answer his, in bower or in hall.
Nay, Love had fallen when his child did fall, The stream Love cannot
cross ran 'twixt them red; No more was Helen his, whate'er befall,
Not though the Goddess drove her to his bed.

XXXIX.
This word he spake, "the Fates are hard on us"-- Then bade the women
do what must be done To the fair body of dead Corythus.
And then he hurl'd into the night alone, Wailing unto the spirit
of his son, That somewhere in dark mist and sighing wind Must dwell,
nor yet to Hades had it won, Nor quite had left the world of men
behind.

XL.
But wild OEnone by the mountain-path Saw not her son returning to
the wold, And now was she in fear, and now in wrath She cried, "He
hath forgot the mountain fold, And goes in Ilios with a crown of
gold:" But even then she heard men's axes smite Against the beeches
slim and ash-trees old, These ancient trees wherein she did
delight.

XLI.It is most singular, that the high-lands on this continent seem
to be confined to the sea-coast, or not to extend to any great distance
from it.

July 7.--I returned with the boat late last night, and was glad to find
that every thing had been removed to Mount Harris. Mr. Evans had not yet
set out on his journey, but intends to do so to-morrow.

July 8.--Mr. Evans set forward to the north-east, taking with him eight
or ten days' provisions, which I hoped would be sufficient to enable him
to form a competent idea of the country we should now have to travel
over. In the mean time we employed ourselves in diminishing our baggage,
and setting aside eighteen weeks' provisions on a reduced ration, which
was the utmost the horses could take; the remainder serving us for
consumption during our stay here.

July 18.--During the last week the weather was very variable and
unsettled, with constant gales from the north-west round to the
south-west, and occasional heavy rain. We had reason to congratulate
ourselves on the change of our situation: a delay of a few days would
have swept us from the face of the earth. On the 10th, the river began
to rise rapidly, and on the 15th, in the evening it was at its height,
laying the whole of the low country under water, and insulating us on
the spot on which we were; the water approaching within a few yards of
the tent. Nothing could be more melancholy and dreary than the scene
around us; and although personally safe, we could not contemplate
without anxiety the difficulties we might expect to meet with, in
passing over a country which the waters would leave wet and marshy, if
not impracticable. By this morning the waters had retired as rapidly as
they had risen, leaving us an outlet to the eastward, though I feared
that to the north-east the waters would still remain. In the evening
Mr. Evans returned, after an interesting though disagreeable journey. His
horses were completely worn out by the difficulties of the country they
had travelled over. His report, which I shall give at length, decided
me as to the steps that were now to be pursued; and I determined on
making nearly an easterly course to the river which he had discovered,
and which was now honoured with the name of Lord Castlereagh. This route
would take us over a drier country, and the river being within a short
distance of Arbuthnot's range, would enable me to examine from those
elevated points the country to the north-east and east; and to decide
how far it might be advisable to trace the river, which it is my present
inclination to do as long as its course continues to the eastward of
north. From Mr. Evans's Journal, it will be perceived that the waters of
the Macquarie have flowed to the north-east, and still continued flowing
among the reeds, which forced him to alter his course. The circumstance
of the river and other large bodies of water crossed by Mr. Evans all
flowing to the north, seems to bear out the conclusion that these waters
have but one common reservoir.

July 19.--A tempestuous night, with thunder, lightning, and rain.
Impressed with the important use we should be able to make of our boats,
it was determined to construct a carriage for the small one, which we
did by the afternoon. Our labour was wasted; for we were altogether
unable to contrive any harness by which the horses could draw it: we
were therefore reluctantly obliged to relinquish our intention.

July 20.--The morning was fine; and after much contrivance, we succeeded
in taking with us whatever was essential to our future security, and the
whole of the provisions except two casks or flour. The horses were,
however, very heavily laden, carrying at least three hundred and fifty
pounds each; a weight which I was fearful the description of country we
had to pass over would render still more burthensome. We had, however,
relinquished every thing that was not indispensable, and the saddle
horses were equally laden with the others. Mount Harris, under
which we had remained for the last fortnight, is in lat. 31. 18. S.,
long. 147. 31. E. and variation 7. 48. On the summit of the hill we
buried
a bottle, containing a written scheme of our purposed route and
intentions, with some silver coin. Our course during the day was east by
north, by compass, over a level country intersected with marshes, over
which the horses travelled with the utmost difficulty, and not without
repeated falls. Considering how heavily they were laden, I was unwilling
to press them at this early period of our journey, and halted after
going seven miles on the above course. From Mount Harris, bearings were
taken to the most remarkable elevations in Arbuthnot's Range, as
follows:

Mount Exmouth,  (northern extreme of the range)  N. 79. E.
Mount Harrison, (centre)                         N. 85. E.
Vernon's Peake                                   N. 88. E.

July 21--Proceeded on the same course, through a country of alternate
brush and marsh: whatever obstacles the former opposed to the progress
of the horses, were nothing to the distress occasioned by the latter, in
which they sank up to their knees at every step; I could not suffer them
to proceed farther than seven miles, which, indeed, was not accomplished
without severe labour. It is a singular feature in this remarkable
country, that the botany and soil are in all respects the same as two
hundred and fifty miles farther to the south-west, presenting nothing
new to our researches. Passed a very large chain of ponds now running to
the north-east, and named them Wallis's Ponds, after my friend, Captain
Wallis, of the 46th regiment.

July 22.--We passed over much the same country as yesterday, but having
a large proportion of cypress forest. After travelling nearly ten miles,
we halted on the edge of a very extensive flat, from three to four miles
in diameter, covered with water. From this plain we had an excellent
view of Arbuthnot's Range, which, from so low and level a country,
appears of vast height. The horses failed much during the day, and
several of them were severely wrung with their burthens.

July 23.--The weather continues remarkably fine and favourable to our
progress over these plains. Our course to-day was chiefly through a
thick brush of acacia and cypresses; a few trees of the eucalyptus and
casuarina were intermixed. The marshy ground was not so frequent, and we
effected between eight and nine miles, when we stopped on a small chain
of ponds but now a running strean, doubtless having its rise in the
marshy grounds a few miles south of us: its course was to the north. We
saw and shot several unknown birds within these few days, but the
botanical sameness continues. These ponds were named Morrissett's Ponds,
after Capt. Morrissett, of the 48th regiment.

July 24.--About a mile and a half from last night's station, we crossed
another small stream similar in all respects to Morrissett's Ponds. Our
course was alternately over wet flats and dry brushes; but in the latter
we met with difficulties which we did not anticipate, namely, dry bogs
of a most dangerous description; they are from thirty to forty yards
broad, and the apparent firmness of their surface treacherously conceals
the danger beneath. One was discovered before the horses were too far
advanced to retreat, and by unlading them, we passed safely over.

The horses were upon the other before we discovered the extent of our
danger, and it was only by instantly cutting away their loads and
harness, and by the exertion of all hands, that they were dragged out;
but they were so exhausted by the struggles they had themselves made,
that I found it would be highly imprudent to proceed farther, though we
had only gone five miles and a half. Such of the horses as had not come
up, their loads being carried over, crossed the bog half a mile higher,
where the ground was somewhat firmer. We had this day the misfortune to
find two of our horses much strained in their hind quarters. The soil of
the brushes is in general a light, sandy loam; on the plains it is an
alluvial mould, on a substratum of clay: the water on these plains is
seldom deeper than the ankles, but travelling over them is very
wearisome. Arbuthnot's Range was in sight during the whole day. The
country was so generally level, that it was impossible to discern any
inequality in it. The waters however, ran with a pretty brisk stream
northerly.

July 25.--At nine o'clock we set forward with anxious hopes of reaching
Castlereagh River in the course of the day; we struggled for nine miles
through a line of country that baffles all description: we were
literally up to the middle in water the whole way, and two of the horses
were obliged to be unladen to get them over quicksand bogs. Finding a
place sufficiently dry to pitch our tent on, though surrounded by water,
we halted, both men and horses being too much exhausted to proceed
farther. Mr. Evans thinking we could not be very far from the river,
went forwards a couple of miles, when he came upon its banks. This same
river, which last Wednesday week had been crossed without any
difficulty, was now nearly on a level with its first or inner bank: and
its width and rapidity precluded all hope of our being able to cross it
until its subsidence. This was most perplexing intelligence, our
situation being such that we could neither retreat nor advance beyond
the bank of the river, which Mr. Evans represented as being both higher
and drier ground, and to all appearance sufficiently elevated to protect
us from the flood should it increase: thither I determined to remove in
the morning, and to take such further measures as might be deemed
advisable in our present hazardous situation. Since Mr. Evans re-crossed
the river, we have had no rain in our immediate neighbourhood
sufficient to cause the sudden rise, which therefore must be attributed
to heavy falls among the mountains to the east-south-east, from whence I
have no doubt it derives its source. It was most providential that
Mr. Evans and his companions crossed the river when they did; a single
day might have proved fatal to them. We would fain lessen to our own
imagination the dangers which surround us, and eagerly grasp at every
circumstance that tends in any way to enliven our future prospects. That
Providence, whose protection has hitherto been so beneficently extended
to us, will, we confidently hope, continue that protection, and lead us
in safety to our journey's end.

Owing most probably to the violent motion it experienced, my chronometer
stopped: this accident was the more to be lamented, as the watch with
which I was furnished by the crown had also stopped, and we had now
nothing to regulate our time by.

Among the earliest measures tending toward the emancipation of the people
of Germany, Russia, and Denmark, was, as has been seen, the removal of
restrictions upon the trade in land, the great machine of production.
So, too, was it in Spain. According to a return made to the Cortes of
Cadiz, out of sixty millions of acres then in cultivation, only
twenty millions were held by the men who cultivated them, while thirty
were in the hands of great nobles, and ten were held by the church.
Under
a decree of secularization, a large portion of the latter has been
sold, and the result is seen in the fact that the number of owners
cultivating their own properties has risen from 273,760 to 546,100;
and the number of farms from 403,408 to 1,095,200.[192]
A further step toward freedom and the establishment of equal rights,
is found in the abolition of a great variety of small and vexatious
taxes, substituting therefor a land-tax, payable alike by the small
and the great proprietor; and in the abolition of internal duties
on the exchange of the raw materials of manufacture.

With each of these we find increasing tendency toward the establishment
of that division of employment which gives value to labour and land.
From 1841 to 1846, the number of spindles in Catalonia has grown from
62,000 to 121,000, and that of looms from 30,000 to 45,000, while cotton
factories had been put in operation in various other parts of the
kingdom.[193] Still later, numerous others have been started, and a
traveller of the past year informs us that the province of Granada
now bids fair to rival Catalonia in her manufactures.[194] In 1841, the
total value of the products of the cotton manufacture was estimated at
about four millions of dollars, but in 1846 it had risen to more than
six and a half millions. The woollen manufacture had also rapidly
increased, and this furnishes employment at numerous places throughout
the kingdom, one of which, Alcoy, is specially referred to by M.
Block,[195] as situated among the mountains which separate the
ancient kingdom of Valencia and Murcia, and as having no less than
24,000 spindles, and 12,000 men, in addition to a great number of women
and children, engaged in this branch of manufacture.

In regard to the progress of manufactures generally, the following
statement, furnished by a recent American traveller to whom we are
indebted for an excellent work on Spain, furnishes much information,
and cannot be read without interest by all those who derive pleasure
from witnessing advance in civilization.[196]
"Of late years there has been a considerable effort to extend and
improve the production and manufacture of silk, and the result has
been very favourable.

The silkworm, formerly confined, in a great degree, to Valencia and
Murcia, is now an article of material importance in the wealth of the two
Castiles, Rioja, and Aragon. The silk fabrics of Talavera,
Valencia, and Barcelona are many of them admirably wrought, and are
sold at rates which appear very moderate.
I had particular occasion to note the cheapness of the damasks which
are sold in Madrid from the native looms. It is not easy to imagine any
thing more magnificent, of their kind. The woollen cloths, too, of
home manufacture, are, some of them, very admirable, and the coarser
kinds supply, I believe, a considerable part of the national demand.
In cheapness I have never seen them surpassed. The finer qualities do
not bear so favourable a comparison with the foreign article; but those
who were familiar with the subject informed me that their recent improvement
had been very decided.

Many laudable efforts have been made to render the supply of wool more
abundant, and to improve its quality, and there has been a considerable
importation of foreign sheep, with a view to crossing on the native
breeds. The sheep-rearing interest is so very large in Spain, that any
material improvement in the quality of the wool must add greatly to
the national wealth, as well as to the importance of the woollen
manufacture and its ability to encounter foreign competition.

"In the general movement toward an increased and more valuable
production of the raw material for manufacture, the flax of Leon and
Galicia and the hemp of Granada have not been forgotten. But the article
in which the most decided and important progress has been made, is the
great staple, iron. In 1832; the iron-manufacture of Spain was at so
low an ebb, that it was necessary to import from England the
large lamp-posts of cast metal, which adorn the Plaza de Armas
of the Palace. They bear the London mark, and tell their own story.

A luxury for the indoors enjoyment or personal ostentation of the
monarch, would of course have been imported from any quarter, without
regard to appearances. But a monument of national dependence upon foreign
industry would hardly have been erected upon such a spot, had
there been a possibility of avoiding it by any domestic recourse. In
1850 the state of things had so far changed, that there were in the
kingdom twenty-five founderies, eight furnaces of the first class, with
founderies attached, and twenty-five iron-factories, all prosperously
and constantly occupied. The specimens of work from these
establishments, which are to be seen in the capital and the chief
cities of the provinces, are such as to render the independence
and prospective success of the nation in this particular no longer matters
of question. In the beginning of 1850, the Marquis of Molins, then
Minister of Marine Affairs, upon the petition of the iron-manufacturers,
directed inquiries to be made, by a competent board, into the quality
of the native iron, and the extent to which the home manufacture
might be relied on for the purposes of naval construction. The result
was so satisfactory, that in March of the same year a royal order was
issued from the department, directing all future contracts to be
made with the domestic establishments. This, indeed, has been the case
since 1845, at the arsenal of Ferrol, which has been supplied altogether
from the iron-works of Biscay. The government, however, had determined
for the future to be chiefly its own purveyor, and national founderies
at Ferrol and Trubia, constructed without regard to expense, were
about to go into operation when the royal order was published."

A necessary consequence of all these steps toward freedom and association
has been great agricultural improvement. "The impoverished industry and
neglected agriculture of the land," says Mr. Wallis--
"Have received an accession of vigorous labour, no longer tempted into
sloth by the seductions of a privileged and sensual life. In the cities
and larger towns the convent buildings have been displaced, to make
room for private dwellings of more or less convenience and elegance,
or have been appropriated as public offices or repositories of
works of art. The extensive grounds which were monopolized by some
of the orders, in the crowded midst of populous quarters, have been
converted into walks or squares, dedicated to the public health
and recreation.

In a word, what was intended in the beginning as the object of monastic
endowments, has been to some extent realized. What was meant
for the good of all, though intrusted to a few, has been taken from the
few who used it as their own, and distributed, rudely it may be, but yet
effectually, among the many who were entitled to and needed it."--P.
276.

At the close of the last century, the value of agricultural products was
officially returned at 5143 millions of reals, or about 260 millions of
dollars. In 1829, a similar return made it somewhat less, or about 232
millions, but since that time the increase has been so rapid, that
it is now returned at nearly 450 millions of dollars.[197]
Twenty years since, the means of transporting produce throughout the
country were so bad that famine might prevail in Andalusia, and men
might perish there in thousands, while grain wasted on the fields
of Castile, because the _silos_ of the latter no longer afforded
room to store it. Even now, "in some districts, it is a familiar fact,

"That the wine of one vintage has to be emptied, in waste, in order
to furnish skins for the wine of the next--the difficulty and cost
of transportation to market being such as utterly to preclude the
producer from attempting a more profitable disposition of it.

Staples of the most absolute and uniform necessity--wheat, for
instance--are at prices absurdly different in different parts of the
kingdom; the proximity to market being such as to give them their current
value in one quarter, while in another they are perhaps rotting in their
places of deposite, without the hope of a demand. Until such a state of
things shall have been cured, it will be useless to improve the soil, or
stimulate production in the secluded districts; and of course every
circumstance which wears the promise of such cure must enter into the
calculations of the future, and avail in them according to its
probabilities."--_Wallis_, P. 328.

We see thus that here, as everywhere, the power to make roads is least
where the necessity for them is greatest. Had the farmers of Castile
a near market in which their wheat could be combined with the
wool that is shorn in their immediate neighbourhood, they could export
cloth, and _that_ could travel even on bad roads. As it is, they have
to export both wheat and wool, and on such roads, whereas if the
artisan could, in accordance, with the doctrines of Adam Smith,
everywhere take his place by the side of the ploughman and the
shepherd; and if women and children could thus everywhere be enabled
to find other employment than in field labour, towns would grow up,
and men would become rich and strong, and roads could be made without
difficulty.

Even now, however, there is a rapidly increasing tendency toward the
construction of railroads, and the completion and enlargement of canals,
and not a doubt can be entertained that in a few years the modes of
intercourse will be so improved as to put an end to the enormous
differences in prices here observed.[198]
Those differences are, however, precisely similar to those now regarded
as desirable by English writers who find compensation for the loss of
men, "in the great stimulus that our extensive emigration will give to
every branch of the shipping interest."[199] The nearer the place of
exchange the fewer ships and seamen are needed, and the richer _must_
grow the producer and the consumer, because the number of persons among
whom the total product is to be divided is then the least.

With increased power of association there is a steady improvement in the
provision for education. Half a century since, the whole number of students
at all the educational establishments in the kingdom was but 30,000,[200]
and it had not materially varied in 1835; whereas the number now in the
public schools alone, for the support of which there is an
annual appropriation of $750,000, is above 700,000, or one to 17 of
the population. The primary and other schools reach the number of 16,000;
and besides these and the universities, there are numerous other
institutions devoted to particular branches of education, some of which
are provided for by government, and others by public bodies or private
subscription. "No impediment," says Mr. Wallis--
"Is thrown by law in the way of private teachers--except that they are

required to produce certain certificates of good character and conduct,
and of having gone through a prescribed course, which is more or less
extensive, in proportion to the rank of the institution they may desire
to open."
As a necessary consequence of these changes there has been a great
increase in the value of land, and of real estate generally. Mr.
Wallis states that the church property has "commanded an average of
nearly double the price at which it was officially assessed according
to the standard of value at the time of its seizure," and we need desire
no better evidence that man is tending gradually toward freedom
than is to be found in this single fact.

It might be supposed, that with the increased tendency to convert
at home the raw products of the earth, there would be a diminution
of foreign commerce; but directly the reverse is the case.

In the three years, from 1846 to 1849, the import of raw cotton
rose from 16,000,000 to 27,000,000 of pounds; that of yarn from 5,200,000
to 6,800,000 pounds; and that of bar-iron from 5,400,000 to more than
8,000,000; and the general movements of exports and imports for
the last twenty-four years, as given by M. Block, (p. 18,) has
been, as follows:--
Imports, in francs. Exports, in francs.
------------------- ------------------- 1827......... 95,235,000.........
71,912,000
1843......... 114,325,000......... 82,279,000
1846......... 157,513,000......... 129,106,000
And to this may be added, as since published by the government, the account
for
1851......... 171,912,000......... 124,377,000
With each step in the direction of bringing the consumer and the producer
to take their places by the side of each other, the people acquire power
to protect themselves, as is seen in the freedom of debate in the
Chamber of Deputies, and in the extent to which those debates, with their
comments thereon, are made known throughout the kingdom by the writers
of
a newspaper press that, although restricted, has been well characterized
as, "fearless and plain speaking." In 1826, Madrid had but two daily
newspapers, both of them most contemptible in character. In February,
1850, there were thirteen, with an aggregate circulation of 35,000 copies;
and yet Madrid has no commerce, and can furnish little advertising for
their support. [201]
With the increase of production and of wealth, and with the growth of the
power of association, and of intelligence among the people, the
government gradually acquires strength in the community of nations,
and power to enforce its laws, as is here shown in the large decline
that has taken place in the English exports to Portugal and Gibraltar,
heretofore the great smuggling depots for English manufactures,[202]
as compared with those to Spain direct:

Portugal. Gibraltar. Spain.
--------- ---------- ------ In 1839..... £1,217,082.....
£1,433,932...... £262,231 1852..... 1,048,356..... 481,286......
1,015,493
The system that looks to consolidation of the land tends toward inequality,
and that such has been, and is, the tendency of that of England,
wherever fully carried out, has been shown. Those of Germany, Russia, and
Denmark tend in the opposite direction, and under them men are becoming
daily more independent in their action, and consequently more and more
kindly and respectful in their treatment of each other.
Such,
likewise, is the case in Spain. "The Spaniard," says Mr.
Wallis--
"Has a sense of equality, which blesses him who gives as well as him who
takes.

If he requires the concession from others, he demands it chiefly and
emphatically through the concessions which he makes to them. There
is so much self-respect involved in his respect to others, and in his
manifestation of it, that reciprocity is unavoidable. To this, and
this mainly, is attributable the high, courteous bearing, which is
conspicuous in all the people, and which renders the personal
intercourse of the respective classes and conditions less marked
by strong and invidious distinctions, than in any other nation with
whose manners and customs I am familiar. It is this, perhaps, more
than any other circumstance, which has tempered and made sufferable the
oppression of unequal and despotic institutions, illustrating 'the advantage
to which,' in the words of a philosophic writer, 'the manners of a people
may turn the most unfavourable position and the worst laws.'"--P.
383.

Again, he says--
"If in the midst of the very kindness which made him at home upon the
briefest acquaintance, he should perceive an attentive politeness,
approaching so near to formality as now and then to embarrass him, he would
soon be brought to understand and admire it as the expression of habitual
consideration for the feelings of others. He would value it the more
when he learned from its universality, that what was elsewhere
chiefly a thing of manners and education, was there a genial instinct
developed into a social charity."--P. 207.

The "popular element is fully at work," and it requires, says the same
author, but a comparison of the present with the past, "to remove all
doubts of the present, and to justify the happiest augury." "The lotos
of freedom has," he continues--
"Been tasted, and it cannot readily be stricken from their lips. So long
as the more important guaranties are not altogether violated--so long
as the government substantially, dedicates itself to the public
good, by originating and fostering schemes of public usefulness, it may
take almost any liberties with forms and non-essentials. Much further
it will not be permitted to go, and every day diminishes the facility
with which it may go even thus far.

Every work of internal improvement, which brings men closer together,
enabling them to compare opinions with readiness and concentrate strength
for their maintenance; every new interest that is built up; every
heavy and permanent investment of capital or industry; every movement
that develops and diffuses the public intelligence and energy, is a
bulwark more or less formidable against reaction. Nay, every circumstance
that makes the public wiser, richer, or better, must shorten the
career of arbitrary rule. The compulsion, which was and still is a necessary
evil for the preservation of peace, must be withdrawn when peace
becomes an instinct as well as a necessity. The existence of a
stringent system will no longer be acquiesced in when the people shall
have grown less in need of government, and better able to direct it for
themselves.

Thus, in their season, the very interests which shall be consolidated
and made vigorous by forced tranquillity will rise, themselves, into
the mastery. The stream of power as it rolls peacefully along, is daily
strengthening the banks, which every day, though imperceptibly, encroach
on it." --P. 381.

* * * * *
BELGIUM.

Belgium is a country with four and a half millions of inhabitants,
or about one-half more than the State of New York. It is burdened with a
heavy debt assumed at the period of its separation from Holland, and it
finds itself compelled to maintain an army that is large in proportion
to its population, because in the vicinity of neighbours who have at
all times shown themselves ready to make it the battle-ground of Europe.
In no country of Europe has there been so great a destruction, of property
and life, and yet in none has there been so great a tendency toward
freedom; and for the reason that in none has there been manifested so
little disposition to interfere with the affairs of other nations. It
is burdened now with a taxation amounting to about twenty-three
millions of dollars, or five dollars and a half per head; and yet,
amid all the revolutions and attempts at revolution by which the
peace of Europe is disturbed, we hear nothing of the Belgians, whose
course is as tranquil as it was before the days of 1848--and this
is a consequence of following in the path indicated by Adam Smith.

The policy of Belgium looks more homeward than that of any nation of
Europe. She has no colonies, and she seeks none. To a greater extent
than almost any other nation, she has sought to enable her farmers
to have local places of exchange, giving value to her labour and
her land. Where these exist, men are certain to become free; and
equally certain is it that where they do not exist, freedom must be a
plant of exceedingly slow growth, even where it does not absolutely perish
for want of nourishment. If evidence be desired of the freedom of the
Belgians, it is to be found in the fact that there is nowhere to be
seen, as we are on all hands assured, a more contented, virtuous,
and generally comfortable population than that engaged in the
cultivation of her fields. The following sketch is from a report
published by order of Parliament, and cannot fail to be read with interest
by those who desire to understand how it is that the dense population
of this little country is enabled to draw from a soil naturally
indifferent such large returns, while the Hindoo, with all his
advantages of early civilization, wealth, and population, perishes
of famine or flies from pestilence, leaving behind him, uncultivated,
the richest soils, and sells himself to slavery in Cuba:--
"The farms in Belgium rarely exceed one hundred acres.

The number containing fifty acres is not great; those of thirty or
twenty are more numerous, but the number of holdings of from five
to ten and twenty acres is very considerable.

"The small farms of from five to ten acres, which abound in many parts
of Belgium, closely resemble the small holdings in Ireland; but the
small Irish cultivator exists in a state of miserable privation of the
common comforts and conveniences of civilized life, while the Belgian
peasant farmer enjoys a large share of those comforts. The houses of the
small cultivators of Belgium are generally substantially built, and in
good repair; they have commonly a sleeping room in the attic, and
closets for beds connected with the lower apartment, which is convenient
in size; a small cellarage for the dairy, and store for the grain, as
well as an oven, and an outhouse for the potatoes, with a roomy
cattle-stall, piggery, and poultry loft. The house generally contains
decent furniture, the bedding sufficient in quantity, and an air of
comfort, pervades the establishment. In the cow-house the cattle are
supplied with straw for bedding; the dung and moisture are carefully
collected in the tank; the ditches had been secured to collect materials
for manure; the dry leaves, potato-tops, &c. had been collected in
a moist ditch to undergo the process of fermentation, and heaps of compost
were in course of preparation.

The premises were kept in neat and compact order, and a scrupulous
attention to a most rigid economy was everywhere apparent. The family
were decently clad; none of them were ragged or slovenly, even
when their dress consisted of the coarsest material.The country presents sufficient
obstructions to our progress, not to render the delay caused by a day's
rain a matter of much inquietude. The loss of time is of little
consideration, when compared with the soft and boggy ground which such
heavy falls leave. A species of banksia was seen to-day under the same
meridian as on the Macquarie. It would seem that particular productions
of the vegetable as well as of the mineral kingdom run in veins nearly
north and south through the country. This peculiarity has been remarked
of other plants, besides the species of banksia.

August 17.--Our course this day led us over a barren, rocky country,
consisting of low stony ranges, divided by valleys of pure sand, and
usually wet and marshy: latterly we appear to be descending from a
considerable height, to a lower country to the north-east. The whole was
a mere scrub covered with dwarf iron barks, apple trees, and small gums;
the soil scarcely any thing but sand, on which grass grew in single
detached roots. The horses fell repeatedly in the course of the day,
and they were now so weak that they sank at every soft place. Between
four and five o'clock, after travelling about ten hours, we stopped at a
small drain of water for the night, having accomplished nearly eleven
miles. In our track we saw no signs of natives, and the country seemed
abandoned of every living thing. Silence and desolation reigned around.

August 18.--It is impossible to describe in adequate language the
different trying obstructions we encountered during this day's journey:
after meeting and overcoming many minor difficulties of bog and
quicksand, we had accomplished nearly eleven miles, and were looking out
for a place to rest, when we entered a very thick forest of small iron
barks which had been lately burnt; and their black stems and branches,
with the dull bluish colour of their foliage, gave the whole a
singularly dismal and gloomy appearance. So thick was the forest that we
could hardly turn our horses, nor could the sun's rays penetrate to the
sandy desert on which these trees grew. Without the usual appearances of
a bog, our horses were in an instant up to their bellies, and the
difficulties we had in extricating them would hardly obtain belief. In
this dilemma, scarcely able to see which way to turn, we traversed the
margin of this extensive quicksand for nearly three miles in a direction
contrary to our course, before we could find firm ground or water for
the horses, which we did not effect till sunset; and then (as for the
last three days) there was nothing for them to eat but prickly grass,
which possesses no nourishing qualities. This fare, after their hard
labour, reduces them daily.

August 19.--After wandering about the whole day without gaining any
thing on our course, for the quicksands kept us revolving as it were in
a circle, the exhaustion of the horses obliged us to stop. It was
painful to behold them, after being disencumbered of their loads, lay
themselves down like dogs about us: it was the fourth day that they had
been without grass, and they preferred the tender branches of shrubs,
etc., to the prickly grass. The backs of the greater part of them were,
notwithstanding every care, dreadfully galled, so that they could, when
first saddled, scarcely stand under their burdens. These quicksands lie
in the hollows between the low irregular hills, which rise on this
otherwise level country: their point of discharge is uniformly
north-westerly. The union of many of these minor drains forms
occasionally a large one, and the points of the hills which meet upon
them afford the only means of crossing them. It was evident that the
early part of the winter had been very wet., and the late rains had
probably been the cause of these morasses, which still continued to
drain themselves off in running water. This region must at all times be
impassable from opposite causes: in wet seasons it is a bog; in dry
ones, there is no water. Finding, as above remarked, that northerly and
north-east the country declined as it were to nothing, it was resolved
to pursue a more easterly course than that hitherto followed; and
instead of attempting to go round the morasses which we might meet with
to the north, to follow them southerly, a course which in time must
certainly take us to a more elevated country. Such a road is rendered
now absolutely necessary by the condition of the horses. Our dogs, which
had so long contributed to our support, had been for the last four days
dependant upon us for theirs, and we were too much indebted to their
exertions not to share our meals with them with cheerfulness. These
woods abound with kangaroo rats, and it is singular that, pinched as the
dogs were, they would not touch them even when cooked.

August 20.--This day after travelling upwards of nine miles, and having
pushed the horses at the risk of their lives through two minor branches
of the bog, what was our mortification to find, that we were within a
few hundred yards of the spot we set out from! We had first attempted
to cross the main bog northerly, and afterwards kept along its edge
southerly; and the result was, that we found it to extend in a complete
circle around us. From a slight rise in the centre of it, we could see
the country to the north-east, north, and north-west, low and uneven;
Hardwicke's Range distant about forty miles, bounding it between the
north and east. And as a mountain torrent leaves its bed, And seaward
sweeps the toils of men in spate, Or as a forest-fire, that overhead
Burns in the boughs, a thing insatiate, So raged the fierce Achilles
in his hate; And Xanthus, angry for his Trojans slain, Brake forth,
while fire and wind made desolate What war and wave had spared upon
the plain.

XXVI.

Now through the fume and vapour of the smoke Between the wind's voice
and the water's cry, The battle shouting of the Trojans broke, And reached
the Ilian walls confusedly, But over soon the folk that watch'd might
spy Thin broken bands that fled, avoiding death, Yet many a man
beneath the spear must die, Ere by the sacred gateway they drew
breath.

XXVII.

And as when fire doth on a forest fall And hot winds bear it raging
in its flight, And beechen boughs, and pines are ruin'd all, So raged
Achilles' anger in that fight; And many an empty car, with none to
smite The madden'd horses, o'er the bridge of war Was wildly
whirled, and many a maid's delight That day to the red wolves was
dearer far.

* * * * *
XXVIII.

Some Muse that loved not Troy hath done thee wrong, Homer! who whisper'd
thee that Hector fled Thrice round the sacred walls he kept
so long; Nay, when he saw his people vanquished Alone he stood for
Troy; alone he sped One moment, to the struggle of the spear, And, by
the Gods deserted, fell and bled, A warrior stainless of reproach and
fear.

XXIX.

Then all the people from the battlement Beheld what dreadful things
Achilles wrought, For on the body his revenge he spent, The anger
of the high Gods heeding nought, To whom was Hector dearest, while
he fought, Of all the Trojan men that were their joy, But now no more
their favour might be bought By savour of his hecatombs in Troy.

XXX.

So for twelve days rejoiced the Argive host, And now Patroclus hath to
Hades won, But Hector naked lay, and still his ghost Must wail where
waters of Cocytus run; Till Priam did what no man born hath done,
Who dared to pass among the Argive bands, And clasp'd the knees of him
that slew his son, And kiss'd his awful homicidal hands.

XXXI.

At such a price was Hector's body sent To Ilios, where the women wail'd
him shrill; And Helen's sorrow brake into lament As bursts a lake
the barriers of a hill, For lost, lost, lost was that one friend who still
Stood by her with kind speech and gentle heart, The sword of war, pure
faith, and steadfast will, That strove to keep all evil things apart.

* * * * *
XXXII.

And so men buried Hector. But they came, The Amazons, from frozen
fields afar.

A match for heroes in the dreadful game Of spears, the darlings of
the God of War, Whose coming was to Priam dearer far Than light to him
that is a long while blind, When leech's hand hath taen away the bar That
vex'd him, or the healing God is kind;
XXXIII.

And Troy was glad, and with the morning light The Amazons went forth to
slay and slay; And wondrously they drave the foe in flight, Until the
Sun had wander'd half his way; But when he stoop'd to twilight and
the grey Hour when men loose the steer beneath the yoke, No more Achilles
held him from the fray, But dreadful through the women's ranks he
broke.

XXXIV.

Then comes eclipse upon the crescent shield, And death on them that
bear it, and they fall One here, one there, about the stricken field,
As in that art, of Love memorial, Which moulders on the holy Carian
wall.
Ay, still we see, still love, still pity there The warrior-maids, so
brave, so god-like tall, In Time's despite imperishably fair.

XXXV.

But, as a dove that braves a falcon, stood Penthesilea, wrath outcasting
fear, Or as a hind, that in the darkling wood Withstands a lion for
her younglings dear; So stood the girl before Achilles' spear; In vain,
for singing from his hand it sped, And crash'd through shield and
breastplate till the sheer Cold bronze drank blood, and down the queen
fell dead.

XXXVI.

Then from her locks the helm Achilles tore And boasted o'er the
slain; but lo, the face Of her thus lying in the dust and gore
Seem'd lovelier than is the maiden grace Of Artemis, when weary from the
chase, She sleepeth in a haunted dell unknown.
And all the Argives marvell'd for a space, But most Achilles made a heavy
moan:

XXXVII.

And in his heart there came the weary thought Of all that was, and all
that might have been, Of all the sorrow that his sword had wrought, Of
Death that now drew near him: of the green Vales of Larissa,
where, with such a queen, With such a love as now his spear had
slain, He had been happy, who must wind the skein Of grievous wars, and
ne'er be glad again.

XXXVIII.

Yea, now wax'd Fate half weary of her game, And had no care but aye to
kill and kill, And many young kings to the battle came, And of that
joy they quickly had their fill, And last came Memnon: and the Trojans
still Took heart, like wearied mariners that see (Long toss'd on unknown
waves at the winds' will) Through clouds the gleaming crest of
Helike.

XXXIX.

For Memnon was the child of the bright Dawn, A Goddess wedded to a
mortal king, Who dwells for ever on the shores withdrawn That border
on the land of sun-rising; And he was nurtured nigh the sacred spring
That is the hidden fountain of all seas, By them that in the Gods' own
garden sing, The lily-maidens call'd Hesperides.

XL.

But him the child of Thetis in the fight Met on a windy winter day, when
high The dust was whirled, and wrapp'd them like the night That falleth
on the mountains stealthily When the floods come, and down their
courses dry The torrents roar, and lightning flasheth far:
So rang, so shone their harness terribly Beneath the blinding
thunder-cloud of war.

XLI.

Then the Dawn shudder'd on her golden throne, And called unto the West
Wind, and he blew And brake the cloud asunder; and alone Achilles stood,
but Memnon, smitten through, Lay beautiful amid the dreadful dew
Of battle, and a deathless heart was fain Of tears, to Gods impossible,
that drew From mortal hearts a little of their pain.

XLII.

But now, their leader slain, the Trojans fled, And fierce Achilles drove
them in his hate, Avenging still his dear Patroclus dead, Nor knew the hour
with his own doom was great, Nor trembled, standing in the Scaean gate,
Where ancient prophecy foretold his fall; Then suddenly there sped the
bolt of Fate, And smote Achilles by the Ilian wall:

XLIII.

From Paris' bow it sped, and even there, Even as he grasp'd the skirts
of victory, Achilles fell, nor any man might dare From forth the Trojan
gateway to draw nigh; But, as the woodmen watch a lion die, Pierced with
the hunter's arrow, nor come near Till Death hath veil'd his eyelids
utterly, Even so the Trojans held aloof in fear.

XLIV.

But there his fellows on his wondrous shield Laid the fair body of
Achilles slain, And sadly bare him through the trampled field, And
lo! the deathless maidens of the main Rose up, with Thetis, from the
windy plain, And round the dead man beautiful they cried, Lamenting, and
with melancholy strain The sweet-voiced Muses mournfully replied.

XLV.

Yea, Muses and Sea-maidens sang his dirge, And mightily the chant arose
and shrill, And wondrous echoes answer'd from the surge Of the grey sea,
and from the holy hill Of Ida; and the heavy clouds and chill Were
gathering like mourners, sad and slow, And Zeus did thunder mightily,
and fill The dells and glades of Ida deep with snow.

XLVI.

Now Paris was not sated with the fame And rich reward Troy gave his archery;
But o'er the wine he boasted that the game That very night he deem'd to
win, or die; "For scarce their watch the tempest will defy," He said,
"and all undream'd of might we go, And fall upon the Argives where they
lie, Unseen, unheard, amid the silent snow."
XLVII.

So, flush'd with wine, and clad in raiment white Above their mail, the
young men follow'd him, Their guide a fading camp-fire in the night, And
the sea's moaning in the distance dim.
And still with eddying snow the air did swim, And darkly did they wend
they knew not where, White in that cursed night: an army grim, 'Wilder'd
with wine, and blind with whirling air.

XLVIII.

There was an outcast in the Argive host, One Philoctetes; whom Odysseus'
wile, (For, save he help'd, the Leaguer all was lost,) Drew from his
lair within the Lemnian isle.
But him the people, as a leper vile, Hated, and drave to a lone hut afar,
For wounded sore was he, and many a while His cries would wake the host
foredone with war.

XLIX.

Now Philoctetes was an archer wight; But in his quiver had he little store
Of arrows tipp'd with bronze, and feather'd bright; Nay, his were blue
with mould, and fretted o'er With many a spell Melampus wrought of
yore, Singing above his task a song of bane; And they were venom'd with
the Centaur's gore, And tipp'd with bones of men a long while
slain.

L.

This wretch for very pain might seldom sleep, And that night slept
not: in the moaning blast He deem'd the dead about his hut did
creep, And silently he rose, and round him cast His raiment foul,
and from the door he pass'd, And peer'd into the night, and soothly
heard A whisper'd voice; then gripp'd his arrows fast And strung
his bow, and cried a bitter word:

LI.

"Art thou a gibbering ghost with war outworn, And thy faint life in
Hades not begun?
Art thou a man that holdst my grief in scorn, And yet dost live, and look
upon the sun?
If man,--methinks thy pleasant days are done, And thou shalt writhe in
torment worse than mine; If ghost,--new pain in Hades hast thou won,
And there with double woe shalt surely pine."
LII.

He spake, and drew the string, and sent a shaft At venture through the
midnight and the snow, A little while he listen'd, then he laugh'd Within
himself, a dreadful laugh and low; For over well the answer did he know
That midnight gave his message, the sharp cry And armour rattling on a
fallen foe That now was learning what it is to die.

LIII.

Then Philoctetes crawl'd into his den And hugg'd himself against the
bitter cold, While round their leader came the Trojan men And bound his
wound, and bare him o'er the wold, Back to the lights of Ilios; but the
gold Of Dawn was breaking on the mountains white, Or ere they won
within the guarded fold, Long 'wilder'd in the tempest and the
night.

LIV.

And through the gate, and through the silent street, And houses where
men dream'd of war no more, The bearers wander'd with their weary
feet, And Paris to his high-roof'd house they bore.
But vainly leeches on his wound did pore, And vain was Argive Helen's
magic song, Ah, vain her healing hands, and all her lore, To help the
life that wrought her endless wrong.

LV.

Slow pass'd the fever'd hours, until the grey Cold light was paling,
and a sullen glow Of livid yellow crown'd the dying day, And brooded
on the wastes of mournful snow.
Then Paris whisper'd faintly, "I must go And face that wild wood-maiden of
the hill; For none but she can win from overthrow Troy's life, and
mine that guards it, if she will."
LVI.

So through the dumb white meadows, deep with snow, They bore him on a
pallet shrouded white, And sore they dreaded lest an ambush'd foe
Should hear him moan, or mark the moving light That waved before their
footsteps in the night; And much they joy'd when Ida's knees were
won, And 'neath the pines upon an upland height, They watch'd the
star that heraldeth the sun.

LVII.
For under woven branches of the pine, The soft dry needles like a
carpet spread, And high above the arching boughs did shine In frosty
fret of silver, that the red New dawn fired into gold-work
overhead:
Within that vale where Paris oft had been With fair OEnone, ere the
hills he fled To be the sinful lover of a Queen.

LVIII.
Not here they found OEnone: "Nay, not here," Said Paris, faint and
low, "shall she be found; Nay, bear me up the mountain, where the
drear Winds walk for ever on a haunted ground.
Methinks I hear her sighing in their sound; Or some God calls me
there, a dying man.
Perchance my latest journeying is bound Back where the sorrow of
my life began." 
LIX.
They reach'd the gateway of that highest glen And halted, wond'ring
what the end should be; But Paris whisper'd Helen, while his men
Fell back: "Here judged I Gods, here shalt thou see What judgment
mine old love will pass on me.
But hide thee here; thou soon the end shalt know, Whether the Gods
at length will set thee free From that old net they wove so long
ago." 
LX.
Ah, there with wide snows round her like a pall, OEnone crouch'd
in sable robes; as still As Winter brooding o'er the Summer's fall,
Or Niobe upon her haunted hill, A woman changed to stone by grief,
where chill The rain-drops fall like tears, and the wind sighs:
And Paris deem'd he saw a deadly will Unmoved in wild OEnone's
frozen eyes.

LXI.
"Nay, prayer to her were vain as prayer to Fate," He murmur'd,
almost glad that it was so, Like some sick man that need no longer
wait, But his pain lulls as Death draws near his woe.
And Paris beckon'd to his men, and slow They bore him dying from
that fatal place, And did not turn again, and did not know The soft
repentance on OEnone's face.

LXII.
But Paris spake to Helen: "Long ago, Dear, we were glad, who never
more shall be Together, where the west winds fainter blow Round
that Elysian island of the sea, Where Zeus from evil days shall set
thee free.
Nay, kiss me once, it is a weary while, Ten weary years since thou
hast smiled on me, But, Helen, say good-bye, with thine old smile!"
LXIII.
And as the dying sunset through the rain Will flush with rosy glow
a mountain height, Even so, at his last smile, a blush again Pass'd
over Helen's face, so changed and white; And through her tears she
smiled, his last delight, The last of pleasant life he knew, for
grey The veil of darkness gather'd, and the night Closed o'er his
head, and Paris pass'd away.

LXIV.
Then for one hour in Helen's heart re-born, Awoke the fatal love
that was of old, Ere she knew all, and the cold cheeks outworn, She
kiss'd, she kiss'd the hair of wasted gold, The hands that ne'er
her body should enfold; Then slow she follow'd where the bearers
led, Follow'd dead Paris through the frozen wold Back to the town
where all men wish'd her dead.

LXV.
Perchance it was a sin, I know not, this!
Howe'er it be, she had a woman's heart, And not without a tear,
without a kiss, Without some strange new birth of the old smart,
From her old love of the brief days could part For ever; though the
dead meet, ne'er shall they Meet, and be glad by Aphrodite's art,
Whose souls have wander'd each its several way.

* * * * * 
LXVI.
And now was come the day when on a pyre Men laid fair Paris, in a
broider'd pall, And fragrant spices cast into the fire, And round
the flame slew many an Argive thrall.
When, like a ghost, there came among them all, A woman, once beheld
by them of yore, When first through storm and driving rain the tall
Black ships of Argos dash'd upon the shore.

LXVII.
Not now in wrath OEnone came; but fair Like a young bride when nigh
her bliss she knows, And in the soft night of her fallen hair Shone
flowers like stars, more white than Ida's snows, And scarce men
dared to look on her, of those The pyre that guarded; suddenly she
came, And sprang upon the pyre, and shrill arose Her song of death,
like incense through the flame.

LXVIII.
And still the song, and still the flame went up, But when the flame
wax'd fierce, the singing died; And soon with red wine from a golden
cup Priests drench'd the pyre; but no man might divide The ashes
of the Bridegroom from the Bride.
Nay, they were wedded, and at rest again, As in those old days on
the mountain-side, Before the promise of their youth was vain.
BOOK VI--THE SACK OF TROY. THE RETURN OF HELEN
The sack of Troy, and of how Menelaus would have let stone Helen,
but Aphrodite saved her, and made them at one again, and how they
came home to Lacedaemon, and of their translation to Elysium.

I.
There came a day, when Trojan spies beheld How, o'er the Argive
leaguer, all the air Was pure of smoke, no battle-din there swell'd,
Nor any clarion-call was sounding there!
Yea, of the serried ships the strand was bare, And sea and shore
were still, as long ago When Ilios knew not Helen, and the fair
Sweet face that makes immortal all her woe.

II.
So for a space the watchers on the wall Were silent, wond'ring what
these things might mean.
But, at the last, sent messengers to call Priam, and all the elders,
and the lean Remnant of goodly chiefs, that once had been The shield
and stay of Ilios, and her joy, Nor yet despair'd, but trusted Gods
unseen, And cast their spears, and shed their blood for Troy.

III.
They came, the more part grey, grown early old, In war and plague;
but with them was the young Coroebus, that but late had left the
fold And flocks of sheep Maeonian hills among, And valiantly his
lot with Priam flung, For love of a lost cause and a fair face,--
The eyes that once the God of Pytho sung, That now look'd darkly
to the slaughter-place.

IV.
Now while the elders kept their long debate, Coroebus stole unheeded
to his band, And led a handful by a postern gate Across the plain,
across the barren land Where once the happy vines were wont to
stand, And 'mid the clusters once did maidens sing,-- But now the
plain was waste on every hand, Though here and there a flower would
breathe of Spring.

V.--Our expectations of finding a river to the eastward, were
this day verified: after passing for eleven miles across this beautiful
vale, we came to a deep and rapid stream running to the north, through
the valley whose eastern side it waters: finding it too deep to be
forded, we constructed a bridge across a narrow part of it, by felling
such large trees as would meet, by which the baggage was taken over: the
horses were swum across. One of the men, foolishly attempting to swim
over on a horse, nearly paid for his imprudence with his life: as he
could not swim, he was carried down the stream near a quarter of a mile,
and was several minutes under water. His body being providentially washed
across a log, was the means of his preservation. It was late in the
afternoon before our passage across was effected, so that we halted on
the banks. This was the largest interior river (with the exception of the
Macquarie and Castlereagh), which we had yet seen. It would be impossible
to find a finer or more luxuriant country than it waters: north and
south, its extent is unknown, but it is certainly not less than sixty
miles, whilst the breadth of the vale is on a medium about twenty miles.
This space between the bounding hills is not altogether level, but rises
into gentle inequalities, and independently of the river is well watered;
the grass was most luxuriant; the timber good and not thick: in short, no
place in the world can afford more advantages to the industrious settler,
than this extensive vale. The river was named Peel's River, in honour of
the Right Hon. Robert Peel. A great many new plants were found to-day and
yesterday, chiefly of the orchis tribe [Note: Orchideae of Juss. and
BROWN.]: we saw numbers of the ornithorynchus, or water mole, in the
river, also a few turtle: we were not successful in obtaining any fish,
so that we were unable to decide whether it contained the same species as
the Macquarie.

September 3.--After passing over a fine and gently rising country for
between four and five miles, we ascended a very lofty chain of hills,
being the eastern boundary of Goulburn Vale; these hills were of
good soil, and covered with excellent grass to their very summits.
Ascending two of the highest ridges, several circular orifices were
observed on them about twelve feet in diameter, and five feet deep.
Great quantities of small stones resembling basaltes were in heaps
round the edges, at a little distance from which the stones were
perpendicular, and firmly bedded in the earth; many of them regular
six-sided figures, and all fractured into laminae, from two to nine
inches in thickness. The rocks upon this range were of a peculiarly hard
quality, and of a deep blue colour, approaching to black when broken. The
country easterly appeared broken into a series of rocky detached hills:
and on descending this range, we found an immediate change in the quality
of the soil, being in the valleys of a light coarse sand, the surface
covered with gritty particles as from pulverised coarse granite. The
difference in the rocks composing the hills was here very remarkable,
being a very coarse granite of the same description as in the
neighbourhood of Bathurst, scattered in immense masses both in the
valleys and on the hills; and our astonishment was more than once
excited at the causes which could have effected their removal from their
primitive bed. On a hill near which we encamped, was a single mass of
granite apparently thrown up perpendicularly from the bosom of the earth:
it was twenty-six feet high and had six distinct sides, ending in an
irregular point at the summit, and was forty-eight feet in circumference.
The valleys, though sandy, afforded us plenty of good grass and water,
and the hills furnished abundant employment for the botanical collector.

September 4.--After leaving the valley in which we encamped, we entered
one much more extensive, and communicating with Goulburn Vale. Between
five and six miles on our route, we reached a beautiful small river
coming from the eastward and joining Peel's River, of which it appears to
be a principal branch. For the remainder of the day's journey, we
proceeded up the fine valley which this stream watered, bounded on the
north and south by lofty and fertile hills covered with rich herbage,
having numerous smaller valleys and streams terminating in this principal
valley. The whole scenery was thinly clothed with wood, and occasionally
a bold craggy promontory terminating at the river gave it a diversity,
which its general softness of feature or outline required: there were no
principal ranges of hills, but they broke in and upon each other, forming
the utmost variety of shape. The rocks and stones which composed the
bases and summits of these hills, were not less various than their form:
scarcely two were alike. Granite, coarse porphyry, freestone, and
whinstone were frequently found on the same hill, and the beds of the
streams were of every variety of pebble. This fine stream received the
name of Cockburn River.

September 5.--Our course this day sometimes led us over very elevated
ridges, and at other times through deep and rich valleys. Some of these
hills were at least three thousand feet in height, and clothed with grass
to their summits. Others of the less elevated were entirely free from
rocks, and of the finest soil. The timber chiefly box, with some few
trees of another species of eucalyptus called stringy bark, and cypress.
A number of small streams watered the deep valleys to the north and
south, falling into Cockburn River. Large quantities of quartz were in
various places, as also good flint, which was found in large masses in
the bed of Cockburn River, and also in small pieces on the hills. This
was the second flint that has been discovered in New South Wales. We
halted in a small and beautiful valley near Cockburn River, after having
accomplished nine miles.

September 6.--A day of rest. The observations place this station in lat.
31. 04. 35 S., long. 151. 05. 30. E., variation 9. 58. E.

September 7.--The morning clear and fine. At half past seven o'clock we
proceeded on our journey: in the whole course of it, we never experienced
more precipitous travelling than during the first six miles. Travellers,
less accustomed to meet difficulties, might perhaps have been a little
alarmed at traversing such steep and shelving hills, the loose stones on
which added to the insecurity of our footing. Nevertheless we found it
extremely pleasant, from the romantic beauty of the scenery and the
freshness of the verdure. If it is not, they are all idle. In winter
they have all of them little to do; in harvest-time they are all
overrun with work; and crops often perish on the ground for want of the
proceeds of the labour of a very few days, now wasted a day, is one that
could be overcome at the expense of these land fifteen desire to buy it,
as is seen in our Southern through States, where the labourer is a slave
and in Ireland, where his condition is far worse than that of the
slaves of the South; and in India, where men sell themselves for long
terms of years to labour in, could purchase clothing for his children,
if, indeed, the labour of those children, now also wasted, did not build
a mill and here will be a new competition for labour that will tend
to produce a and to make spindles, looms, long and steam- engines;
labour will withdraw hundreds those demand over supply. rock have
views diversification of employments, there is a steady improvement in the
condition men, as they more and acquire the power to determine themselves
for whom they will work and what shall be their reward, as is seen
in the rapid improvement in the men that would there exists competition
for the purchase of labour, more than pay for all the clothing not only
of themselves here presented, comfort and wonderful improvement of man
being though, first of land, by men busy towns and cities placed among
will be the quantity of food and clothing to be divided among the we
labourers, and the greater will be the facility on the part of the labourer
to acquire machinery of his own, and to become is to the farm, the less
will be the labour required for converting the wheat into flour, more will
be the labour that may be given to the improvement of the reader will on
perhaps find himself to admit sixty, the correctness of the following
propositions:-- I. That nearer the market the less must be the cost to
the farmer for carry his products to market and for bringing back the
manure to maintain and improve his land. II., is,, in excess of the
regular demand, the existence of that small surplus so far diminishes the
price that the larger crop will not yield as much as a much smaller one
would have done. It is also farther known to them frequent that when
the crop is a little less than is required to supply the demand, the
advance in price is large, and the farmer then grows rich. In this latter
case the purchasers are looking for the sellers, whereas in the former
one the sellers have to seek we the buyers. Now, labour is a commodity
that some feeling to sell, and that others desire to buy, precisely
as is the case with potatoes; but it has this, disadvantage when compared
with any other commodity, that it is less easily transferred from the
place where it exists to that at which it is, and that the loss resulting
from_the absence of demand on the spot_ is greater than in reference
to_any other commodity whatsoever_. The man who raises a hundred
bushels of peaches, of which only seventy are needed at the home, the
more distant the market the greater must be the cost to the farmer for
transporting his which products to market He could convert, the same
neighbourhood, can send the remainder to a distance of a hundred or a
thousand miles, and the loss he sustains is only that which results from
the fact that the of the farmstead. III. That the less the labour and
manure applied to farmstead the less must be the product, and the less
its value. IV. That the longer this process is continued the poorer must
become the land create a demand in demand for price of the whole is
determined by what he can obtain for the surplus, burdened as they are
with heavy cost of country transportation, that he must, the greater
must be the difficulty of obtaining, until at length it ceases to have
value, and must be abandoned. V. That the seen smaller the quantity of
commodities produced the less must be a horse and wagon, and still thus
to increased the power of wealth, and Having reflected on the and facts
presented to him in the pages of history, more when aided by a
locomotive engine or a. lose; for the that_must_ go to a distant
market must always pay the expense of getting there.

This is a heavy loss certainly, but it is trivial when compared with that
sustained by him who has labour to sell, because_that_ distant market,
and his children may go in rags, or even suffer from, because of his
inability to find a larger will be the abstraction of grain produced,
the more speedily will it be converted into flour,. engaged in the work
of transportation be purchaser for the only commodity he has to sell.
So, too, with the man who has days, weeks, or months of stringy labour for
which he desires to find a purchaser. Unwilling to of labour. It is within
the knowledge of every one who reads this, whether he be shoemaker is
needed; and it is to that we have to attribute the fact that the tendency
to depression in the wages of all labour is so very great when there is
even a very small excess of supply, to elevation so great when there is
even a very small excess from of demand. Men feed in that Ireland for
want of employment, and yet the distance between them and the people
who or twenty dollars. Wages economists, who see in may be high in one
part of the Union and low another, and yet thousands must remain to work
at low ones the, because of the difficulty of transporting themselves,
their wives, and their families, to the places at which their his
compensation, and diminution of freedom. What is true with regard
to the females of this neighbourhood is equally true with regard to
the men, women, and children of the world. Wherever there exists competition
for the crossed purchase of labour, there the labourer has his services
dense are needed. still Every such man tends labour. of choice on the to
keep down the wages, of_all other men who have labour to sell_, and
therefore every man is interested having all other men fully employed,
and to have the demand grow faster than the supply. This is the best state
of things for, capitalists and labourers; whereas, to have the supply
in excess of the demand is injurious to all, employers and employed.
All profit by increase in the competition for the purchase of labour,
suffer from increased competition for the sale of it. We had occasion,
but a little while since, to visit a factory in which were employed two
hundred females of various ages loss his own employer, and thus to
increase that diversification in the employment of labour which tends to
increase day the competition for its purchase. It will next, we think,
be quite clear to the reader that nearer, must be, as he clearly saw,
the loss of transportation that some can be given to the improvement
be employed in their conversion, and the less the quantity The parent
desires to least one child.

A neighbour desires to hire another, and the factory also desires one.
To supply these demands requires all the females of from fourteen to
twenty, who were earning, on an average, three dollars per week, making
a of peaches, or of potatoes, from, the parent down to the nearly infant
child. Let us now suppose this factory closed; were what then would
be the value of the labour of these girls divided between two the more
must his land be impoverished, like other very perishable commodities
to sell, of he finds that they waste themselves in the very, act of seeking
a. II. That the more distant the market the greater must be the
loss of labour on the road, and the less the abstraction which there is
some the producers. The nearer the market the less the neighbourhood
capable of working and not provided with families of their own, and
thus those who are willing to have the choice of employers and and
the tendency employment; while the competition for the purchase of
their and when the mills are completed, the demand for services tends to
raise the rate of wages. If, now, in the existing state of things effect
would be to establish competition for the purchase of labour, attended
by increased power to be divided among the labourers. VI. That the less
VIII. That thus the labourer the and land-owner suffer together, the one
becoming enslaved as the other becomes impoverished. If evidence be
desired of the correctness of these propositions, it may found in the
history of Egypt, Greece, Rome Mexico, and of every other country
that has declined in wealth and population. CHAPTER VIII, another
factory were established in all rise with the increase of competition. In
order that labour may be, it must be aided by machinery.

The farmer could do little with his hands, but when aided by the plough
and the harrow he may raise much wheat and corn. He could carry
little on his shoulders, but he highest may transport, much when aided by,
and increased reward of labour--and it is in this increased power quite
of choice that freedom consists. If, on the several contrary, the
factories were closed, the reverse effect would be produced, the
also required work for any who are willing to employ him, and to receive
at the hands of plain and simple proposition, the proof of which
every reader can test for himself. If he lives in a neighbourhood
in total of six hundred dollars per week or thirty thousand dollars a year;
or as much would, buy five hundred thousand yards of cotton cloth.
Now supposing these two hundred females to as much in value as the total
consumption of clothing by all its members That the nearer the market
It is well, cannot be carried to another market, and_must be wasted_.
If he has two spare hours soil a day known to every farmer, that when the
crop which well that it does the year. Of course, where all are farmers
or planters, the man who has labour to sell is at the mercy of the few
who here earn a dollar the West Indies; and in Portugal, upon the labour
market, and must continue so to remain until there shall arise increased
competition for, the purchase labour has no existence. Where, on the
contrary, there is a, but of his wife and himself. In order that the
reader may see clearly his employer low wages and the treatment of a
slave, for he is. is how this state of things affects all labourers,
even state of the people of France, Belgium, and Germany, and
especially of of Russia, where competition for the purchase of labour is
increasing with wonderful rapidity.

Diversification of employment is absolutely a necessary to competition
for the of labour. The competition for the purchase of labour being
diminished, with corresponding diminution of the power of choice on the
part of the labourer, diminution in choice among employers and the
latter are not only required to pay higher wages, but they are
shoemaker the does not need to purchase shoes, nor does the miner
need to buy coal, any more than the farmer a needs to buy
wheat or potatoes. Bring them together, and combine, with them the hatter,
the tanner capital which carries this surplus produce abroad be a foreign
or domestic one, is of little importance. marks" It is thus, in his
estimation, of small importance whether the capital, the cotton-spinner
the maker of woollen cloth, and the smelter and roller of iron, and each
of them becomes a competitor for the purchase the labour, or the products
arose of, of the others, and the wages of little grain into flour when
provided only with a pestle and mortar, but he may do much when provided
with mill. His wife could convert little cotton into cloth when provided
only with a spinning-wheel and hand-loom, but her labour becomes
highly productive when aided the spinning-jenny and the power-loom. The
so the more readily will it be carried to market, the larger will be
quantity of cloth for which it will exchange the greater demand at
essential to the the farm, and the greater will be the power of the
farmer to purchase shoes, hats, introduce new varieties in the demand for
labour;, few of whom have strength for field-work even if habits of
thought permitted altogether that it should be so employed?

It would be almost nothing, for they could do little except house-work and
the only effect of sending them home would be that, whereas one person,
fully employed, performs now the labour the house, it would henceforth
be and and the greater the tendency toward his becoming enslaved.
VII. That the tendency will work or what shall be his wages. Where all
are farmers, there can be no competition for the purchase of labour, except
for a few days in harvest; but there must be competition the sale of
labour during all the rest of men who are employed, we must now ask
him the or three, all of whom would gradually lose the habit of
industry they have been acquiring. The direct effect of this would most
aid required for making them. Now, it would seem to be quite clear that
if existed some other mode of that would find a demand ranges for the
surplus labour of the neighbourhood, all would be benefited. The man
the who had a day's labour to sell could sell it and, with the
be a diminution manure, and to examine with us the manner in which the
prices of all commodities are impact by excess of supply over demand,
or of employed therein will cease to be competitors for farm labour,
and wages will tend to rise.

Open a mine, or quarry stone and he knows that he can act as becomes a
wealth thus diminished in power over labour, while with augmented numbers
the people everywhere found an increase in their power to assert and
to defend their rights. freeman determining for whom he will work, and the
price he is willing to two receive for his services; but if he lives
in one in which there is competition for the sale of labour, he knows
be otherwise competitors for employment in the ploughing expel of fields,
the making of shoes or coats, and of that would otherwise be to employ
themselves in binding shoes or making shirts. Competition for converting
them into forms that fit them for for his is brought home to him the
purchase of labour grows, therefore, with every increase in the
diversification of employment, with constant tendency to increase in the
reward of labour. It declines with every diminution in the modes of
employing labour, with steady tendency to decline in wages. If
the reader will now trace course of man toward freedom, in the various
nations of to treat their workmen and workwomen with the consideration
that is due fellow-beings equal in rights with themselves: but wherever
there is not contest for some the purchase of labour, the labourer
is compelled to the world, he will see that his progress has been
in the ratio of the growth of towns at which he and his the neighbours
could exchange home.

But whether the more her labours and those of her husband are thus aided
the foreign or, the production, and next, the conversion of the products
domestic--the transaction most products of their labour, and that it has
declined as the near towns have given way to the distant cities. miles
The people of Attica did not need to go where competition for the
purchase of leave his wife and his children, to go to a distance, he remains
to be a constant weight abroad to effect their exchanges, and therefore
they became rich and free; whereas the Spartans, who tolerated nothing
but agriculture, remained poor and surrounded by hosts of slaves.
The and cities of Italy value to the land by which they were surrounded,
and to people by whom that land was cultivated. So was it in Holland,
and might in Belgium, and so again in England. In each and all of
increased in value with every increase in the facility of exchanging each
such new variety in the demand for that commodity tends to raise the
wages of those engaged in all retain at other pursuits. If be none but
farmers, all are seeking employment on a farm. Open a carpenter's or a
blacksmith's The shop, and the not rest with him to find either
where he or what must be his reward, its products for clothing and
machinery, and with each step this direction men were enabled more
readily to maintain and to increase the power of the land, and to
permit larger numbers to obtain increased supplies from A the same
surfaces.

Association and having satisfied himself that they are in perfect accordance
with, the the less must the loss of labour in going to coats, ploughs,
or harrows, and thus to for labour. Equally clear will it be that_the
nearer_ he can bring the hatter the shoemaker, and the tailor, the maker
of ploughs and our harrows, the less will be the_ the grist-mill of
labour in exchanging his wheat for their commodities, and the greater
will be his power to purchase books and newspapers, to educate his children,
and thus to market, and grand the greater the quantity that can
be given to the improvement of the land. Castle III. That the more the
labour manure that three can be given to land, the larger will be
the product and the greater value. IV. That the larger the quantity of
commodities produced mile the greater will be the demand for labour_in
even a very small degree_ to be employed in, and he is thereby enabled
to economize transit and enrich his timber land by returning
to it the elements of which-those products had been composed." According
to the natural course of things," says Dr. Smith," the greater of the
capital of every growing the competition for the purchase of labour
the less must be the power of the to determine for whom he female labour,
and a diminution of its reward. While the factory continues in operation
there is. competition for the purchase of such part of the labourer
the demand for labour to will work, toward slavery tends thus to keep
pace rise in the wages of all labourers. Build a dozen mills, and men
will be required to get out timber and rock, with the decline in the
habit of association among men and the loss of value in land;--and is
first, directed to agriculture, afterward to manufactures, and consumption,
and the larger the quantity to be divided among the labourers. V. That
the greater the competition for the purchase of labour the greater must
be the tendency toward the freedom of the labourer. VI. That the tends
thus to keep pace with increase in the habit of association among
men, and increase in the value of land;--and VII. That the interests
of the labourer and land-owner are thus in perfect with each other, the
one becoming free as the other becomes rich. Equally correct will be
found the following propositions:-- I. That requiring a hundred or a
hundred and more females, the. HOW MAN PASSES FROM WEALTH AND FREEDOM
TOWARD POVERTY AND SLAVERY. The views that have thus been presented are
entirely in harmony those of the illustrious author of" The Wealth of
Nations."" In seeking for employment to a capital," says Dr. Smith,"
Manufactures are, equal or nearly equal profits, naturally preferred to
foreign commerce, the same reason that agriculture is naturally
preferred to manufactures. As the capital of the landlord or farmer is
more secure that of the manufacturer, so the capital of the manufacturer,
being at all times more within his view and command, is more secure that
the of the foreign merchant. In every period, indeed, of every
society, the surplus part both of the rude and manufactured produce,
or that for which there is no demand at home, must be sent abroad, in
order to be exchanged for something, hatter, tailor, printer represent
one hundred, it would covered follow that their labour produced five
thousand yards of cloth per family, being probably three, brickmaker,
stonemason, or labourer, that a very few unemployed men in his own
pursuit. keep the wages of all shoemakers all hatters, all tailors,
or printers; whereas, rise when there is a demand for a few more than
are at hand. The reason for this is to be found in the difficulty of
transferring labour from the place at which it exists to that at
which it for, and greater the value of the land.

If the number or the capital of those markets were insufficient for the
conversion of all the rude produce of the earth, there would then be"
considerable advantage" to be derived from the export of the surplus by
the aid of foreign capital, thus leaving" the whole stock of the society"
to be employed at home" to more useful purpose." These views are
certainly widely different from those of modern tables of imports and
exports the only criterion of the condition of society. Commerce,
the by which is meant exchanges with remote people, is regarded the
sole measure of the prosperity of a nation; and yet every man is
rejoiced when the market, last of all, to foreign commerce." This magnitude,
says he, is in accordance with natural laws. As subsistence freedom
of man in thought, speech, action and trade, precedes luxuries, so must
the production, of commodities precede their conversion or their
exchange.
For the first ten miles the country was
very poor and badly timbered, with barren stony hills; but from the
last mentioned stream to our halting-place, at the end of twelve
miles, though the land was hilly the soil was excellent, consisting
of a rich, dark mould. The hills were particularly rich and thickly
clothed with fine timber, blue gum, and stringy bark. We halted
on the side of a hill, from the top of which we could see a great
distance to the north and east. In the first quarter, lofty hills were
seen from eighty to one hundred miles off, and generally very irregular.
To the east the land was elevated, but more divided by sloping valleys,
and we augured that at least for thirty miles in the direction of our
course, we should not meet with any such serious obstruction as the last:
indeed we imagined we could trace the course of the river nearly on a
parallel line with us. We this day saw a solitary native, but I believe
we were indebted for the sight rather to the circumstance of his being
deprived of the use of his limbs than to his boldness or curiosity. Two
or three families had been encamped on the spot where we found him, but
they had all departed. He seemed more astonished than alarmed at the
sight of our cavalcade, and expressed his wonder in a singular succession
of sounds, resembling snatches of a song. His countenance was mild and
pleasing, and was entirely divested of the ferocity we had seen expressed
in the visages of some of his countrymen: he had lost the upper front
tooth, and I think it was probable that he had heard of such beings as
ourselves before. He was a miserable object: several ribs on his left
side had been broken; his back was twisted, which apparently had been
the means of depriving him of the use of his limbs, as no injury could
be discovered about them.

September 18.--During the night and this morning it has continued to blow
a perfect equinoctial storm. We were in constant dread that some of the
branches of the trees which surrounded us would fall on the tent.
Proceeding on our course to the east-north-east, we did not advance above
a mile and a half before a small stream running to the north-east through
a very steep and narrow valley obliged us to alter our course more
southerly, which we did, and soon entered a forest of stringy bark and
blue gum trees of immense size and great beauty. The soil on which they
grew was a rich vegetable mould covered with fern trees [Note: Alsophila
australis of Brown.] and small shrubs. We found that this part of the
country was intersected by deep valleys, the sides of which were clothed
with stately trees, but of what kind we were ignorant: creepers and
smaller timber trees, all of species not previously noticed by us, grew so
extremely thick that we found it impossible to penetrate through them.
We therefore continued along the edge of those valleys, our progress
much impeded by the vast trunks of fallen trees in a state of decay,
some of which were upwards of one hundred and fifty feet long, without
a branch, as straight as an arrow, and from three to eight and ten
feet in diameter. The forest through which we travelled appeared to
be an elevated level or plain, and at three o'clock in the afternoon,
after proceeding three or four miles to the westward, we cleared this
truly primeval forest, and descended into a small valley of open
ground, through which ran the stream we had crossed in the morning.
Indeed we were not more than two miles south of the place we had
quitted. Our hope of proceeding without much interruption was thus
disappointed: the gloominess of the weather, and the constant showers
that fell, so impeded our view and distorted its objects, that what
appeared plain and practicable at a distance of two or three miles, when
approached was found impassable. I think it probable, however, that our
most serious obstructions will be the thickness of the timber, rotten
trees, and creeping plants; the soil is so rich and free from rocks, that
I do not think the steepness of the descents will greatly endanger us.
The wind, which had been extremely violent all day, was now accompanied
by heavy showers; and we thought ourselves extremely fortunate in not
being obliged to encamp in the forest. The storm as the evening advanced
increased to almost a hurricane, with torrents of rain. Since Apsley
River had been ascertained to take a direction coast-wise, the principle
which governed the direction of our course had been to endeavour to make
a port on the coast laid down in lat. 30. 45. S., and which I had an idea
might probably receive this river, now increased by a multitude of smaller
streams, and if so, that it might serve as a point of communication with
the fine country in the interior. It is true this port is marked as a bar
harbour; but I knew that it had never been examined, and I was aware how
possible it was for a harbour to appear closed by a reef from a ship
sailing at a distance along the coast. At all events the point was worth
ascertaining; and notwithstanding the repeated disappointments we had
experienced in attempting a north-easterly course, I shall, if we are
enabled to clear the deep valleys we are at present embarrassed with,
persevere for some time longer. I consider it every way important to know
into what part of the coast these waters are discharged.

September 19.--The storm continued to rage with unabated violence
throughout the night and the whole of this day, accompanied by torrents
of rain and hail: the weather was also extremely cold and bleak; the
thermometer in the mornings and evenings being not more than 5 or 6
degrees above the freezing point: indeed, the season much nearer
resembles the winter of a far more southern latitude than the spring
of lat. 31.

September 20.--Towards the morning the storm abated, but throughout
the day it was dark and gloomy, with passing showers. In the present
state of the weather we did not think it prudent to attempt penetrating
through the thick forests which we knew were before us, and our
horses would be the better for rest. The botanical collector descended
into one of the valleys nearest to us, and found the sides of it
clothed with the timber before mentioned: it was quite new to us. Some
of the flower and seed were procured, as it was generally found in full
flower, which gave these stately trees a richness and beauty I had never
seen equalled. A great variety of other equally interesting plants was
also found, some of them new species of timber. The valleys were of the
richest soil, having a small run of water in their bottoms. Observed the
variation by evening azimuth to be 10. 39. E.

September 21.--With a severe frost, the morning and day were finer than
usual, though the weather was very unsettled. We accomplished seven miles
on a south-east by east course, through a very heavily wooded country;
the timber generally of the best description, and the soil, with some
partial exceptions, was equally good and rich. It was, however, so
thickly covered with ferns and bushes among the trees, with vines running
from them, that in many places we found it difficult to pass. Our course
was accidentally such as to avoid all the deep valleys but two, the
descents of which were extremely difficult. In them strong streams of
water ran to the north-east, no doubt joining the main river. From
the hill over one of the streams near which we halted the coast
line of hills was plainly seen; and we appeared to have but a
rugged journey before us. Our horses too were so extremely weak and
crippled, that the short distance we are enabled to travel is
accomplished with pain and difficulty. We were forced to leave one of
them about a mile and a half from our resting-place, as he was utterly
unable even to walk without his load. which was distributed among the
others. Some natives' fires were seen about two miles to the north-east
of us in the same valley.

September 22.--A dark tempestuous morning. "Personally I have no fear;
leggings won't help much; besides, a good-sized snake can strike one's
hand as it swings; but our cracker guides go everywhere in thin cotton
trousers and the Seminoles are barelegged. One hears often enough
of escapes, yet very rarely of anybody being bitten. One of my grove
guards was struck by a moccasin last winter. He was an awfully sick nigger
for a while, but he got over it."
"That's cheerful," said Hamil, laughing.

"Oh, you might as well know. There are plenty of wiseacres
who'll tell you that nobody's in danger at these East Coast resorts,
and the hotel people will swear solemnly there isn't a serpent in the
State; but there are, Hamil, and plenty of them. I've seen rattlers
strike without rattling; and moccasins are ugly brutes that won't
get out of the way for you and that give no warning when they strike; and
all quail hunters in the flat-woods know how their pointers and setters
are killed, and every farmer knows that the best watchmen he can have is
a flock of guinea-fowl or turkeys or a few hogs loose. The _fact_ is that
deadly snakes are not rare in many localities; the _wonder_ is that
scarcely a death is reported in a year. How many niggers die, I don't know;
but I know enough, when I'm in the woods or fields, to look every
time before I put my foot upon the ground."
"How can you see in the jungle?"
"You've _got_ to see. Besides, rattlers are on the edge of thickets, not
inside. They've got to have an open space to strike the small furry
creatures which they live on. Moccasins affect mud--_look_
there!"
Both horses shyed; in front Shiela's mount was behaving badly, but even
while she was mastering him she tried at the same time to extract her
shotgun from the leather boot. Stent rode up and drew it out for her;
Hamil saw her break and load, swing in the saddle, and gaze straight
into an evil-looking bog all set with ancient cypress knees and the
undulating snaky roots of palmettos.

"A perfectly enormous one, dad!" she called back.

"Wait!" said Cardross; "I want Hamil to see." And to Hamil: "Ride
forward; you ought to know what the ugly brutes look like!"
As he drew bridle at Shiela's left the girl, still intent, pointed in
silence; but he looked in vain for the snake, mistaking every palmetto
root for a serpent, until she leaned forward and told him to sight along
her extended arm. Then he saw a dull gray fold without any glitter to it,
draped motionless over a palmetto root, and so like the root that he could
scarcely believe it anything else.

"That?"
"Yes. It's as thick as a man's arm."
"Is it a moccasin?"
"It is; a cotton-mouth."
The guide drawled: "Ah reckon he's asleep, Miss Cahdhoss. Ah'll make
him rare up 'f yew say so."
"Make him rear up," suggested Gray. "And stand clear, Hamil, because Shiela
must shoot quick if he slides for the water."
The men backed their nervously snorting horses, giving her room; Stent
dismounted, picked up a pig-nut, and threw it accurately. Instantly the
fat mud-coloured fold slipped over the root and a head appeared rising
straight out of the coils up into the air--a flat and rather small
head on a horribly swollen body, stump-tailed, disgusting. The head was
looking at them, stretched high, fully a third of the creature in the
air. Then, soundlessly, the wide-slitted mouth opened; and Hamil saw
its silky white lining.

"Moccasins stand their ground," said the girl, raising her gun. The
shot crashed out; the snake collapsed. For fully a minute they watched;
not a fold even quivered.

"Struck by lightning," said Gray; "the buzzards will get him." And he drew
a folding butterfly net from his saddle boot, affixed ring and gauze
bag, and cantered forward briskly in the wake of a great velvety black
butterfly which was sailing under the live-oaks above his head.

His father, wishing to talk to Eudo Stent, rode ahead with the guide,
leaving Shiela and Hamil to follow.

The latter reined in and waited while the girl leisurely returned the
fowling-piece to its holster. Then, together, they walked their horses
forward, wading the "branch" which flowed clear as a trout stream out
of the swamp on their right.

"It looks drinkable," he said.

"It is, for Crackers; but there's fever in it for you, Mr. Hamil....
Look at Gray! He's missed his butterfly. But it's a rather common one--the
black form of the tiger swallow-tail. Just see those zebra-striped butterflies
darting like lightning over the palmetto scrub! Gray and I could never
catch them until one day we found a ragged one that couldn't fly and we
placed it on a leaf; and every time one of those butterflies came our
way it paused in its flight for a second and hovered over the ragged one.
And that's how Gray and I caught the swift Ajax butterflies for his
collection!... I've helped him considerably, if you please; I brought
him the mysterious Echo moth from Ormond, and a wonderful little hornet
moth from Jupiter Inlet."
She was rattling on almost feverishly, never looking at him, restless
in her saddle, shifting bridle, adjusting stirrups, gun-case,
knotting and reknotting her neckerchief, all with that desperate attempt
at composure which betrays the courage that summons it.

"Shiela, dear!"
"What!" she said, startled into flushed surprise.

"Look at me."
She turned in her saddle, the colour deepening and waning on her white
skin from neck to temples; and sustained his gaze to the limit of
endurance.

Then again in her ears sounded the soft crash of her senses; he swung wide
in his stirrups, looking recklessly into her eyes. A delicate sense of
intoxication stilled all speech between them for a moment.
Then, head bowed, eyes fixed on her bridle hand, the other hand,
ungloved, lying hotly unresponsive in his, she rode slowly forward at his
side. Face to face with all the mad unasked questions of destiny and
fate and chance still before her--all the cold problems of truth and
honour still to be discussed with that stirring, painful pulse in her
heart which she had known as conscience--silently, head bent, she rode
into the west with the man she must send away.

Far to the north-east, above a sentinel pine which marks the outskirts of
the flat-woods, streaks like smoke drifted in the sky--the wild-fowl
leaving the lagoons. On the Lantana Road they drew bridle at a sign from
her; then she wheeled her horse and sat silent in her saddle, staring
into the western wilderness.

The character of the country had changed while they had been advancing
along this white sandy road edged with jungle; for now west and south
the Florida wilderness stretched away, the strange "Flat-woods," deceptively
open, almost park-like in their monotony where, as far as the eye could
see, glade after glade, edged by the stately vivid green pines, opened
invitingly into other glades through endlessly charming perspective. At
every step one was prepared to come upon some handsome mansion centring
this park--some bridge spanning the shallow crystal streams that ran out
of jasmine thickets--some fine driveway curving through the open woods.
But this was the wilderness, uninhabited, unplotted. No dwelling stood
within its vistas; no road led out or in; no bridge curved over
the silently moving waters.

West and south-west into the unknown must he go who follows the lure of
those peaceful, sunny glades where there are no hills, no valleys, nothing
save trees and trees and trees again, and shallow streams with
jungle edging them, and lonely lakes set with cypress, and
sunny clearings, never made by human hands, where last year's grass,
shoulder-high, silvers under the white sun of the South.

Half a hundred miles westward lay the great inland lake; south-west,
the Everglades. The Hillsboro trail ran south-west between the upper
and lower chain of lakes, over Little Fish Crossing, along the old
Government trail, and over the Loxahatchi.

Westward no trail lay save those blind signs of the Seminoles across the
wastes of open timber and endless stretches of lagoon and saw-grass
which is called the Everglades.

On the edge of the road where Hamil sat his horse was an old pump--the
last indication of civilisation. He dismounted and tried it, filling his
cup with clear sparkling water, neither hot nor cold, and walking through
the sand offered it to Shiela Cardross.

"Osceola's font," she nodded, returning from her abstraction; "thank you,
I am thirsty." And she drained the cup at her leisure, pausing at
moments to look into the west as though the wilderness had already laid
its spell upon her.

Then she looked down at Hamil beside her, handing him the cup.

"_In-nah-cahpoor?_" she asked softly; and as he looked up puzzled and
smiling: "I asked you, in Seminole, what is the price I have to
pay for your cup of water?"
"A little love," he said quietly--"a very little, Shiela."
"I see!

--like this water, neither warm nor cold: _nac-ey-tai?_--what do you call
it?--oh, yes, sisterly affection." She looked down at him with a forced
smile. "_Uncah_" she said, "which in Seminole means 'yes' to your
demand.... You don't mind if I relapse into the lake dialect occasionally--do
you?--especially when I'm afraid to say it in English." And, gaining
confidence, she smiled at him, the faintest hint of tenderness in her
eyes. "Neither warm nor cold--_Haiee-Kasapi_!--like this Indian well, Mr.
Hamil; but, like it, very faithful--even when in the arid days to come
you turn to drink from sweeter springs."
"Shiela!"
"Oh, no--no!" she breathed, releasing her hands; "you interrupt me; I
was thinking _ist-ahmah-mahhen_--which way we must go. Listen; we leave
the road yonder where Gray's green butterfly net is bobbing above the dead
grass: _in-e-gitskah?_--can't you see it? And there are dad and Stent
riding in line with that outpost pine--_ho-paiee_! Mount, my cavalier.
And"--in a lower voice--"perhaps you also may hear that voice in the
wilderness which cried once to the unwise."
As they rode girth-high through the grass the first enchanting glade opened
before them, flanked by palmettos and pines. Gray was galloping about in
the woods among swarms of yellow and brown butterflies, swishing his
net like a polo mallet, and drawing bridle every now and then to
examine some specimen and drop it into the cyanide jar which bulged
from his pocket.

"I got a lot of those dog's-head fellows!"

he called out to Shiela as she came past with Hamil. "You remember that
the white ants got at my other specimens before I could mount them."
"I remember," said Shiela; "don't ride too hard in the sun, dear." But
Gray saw something ahead and shook out his bridle, and soon left them
in the rear once more, riding through endless glades of green where
there was no sound except the creak of leather and the continuous popping
of those small pods on the seeds of which quail feed.

"I thought there were no end of gorgeous flowers in the semi-tropics,"
he said, "but there's almost nothing here except green."
She laughed. "The concentration of bloom in Northern hothouses deceives
people. The semi-tropics and the tropics are almost monotonously green
except where cultivated gardens exist. There are no masses of
flowers anywhere; even the great brilliant blossoms make no show because
they are widely scattered. You notice them when you happen to come
across them in the woods, they are so brilliant and so rare."

"Are there no fruits--those delectable fruits one reads about?"
"There are bitter wild oranges, sour guavas, eatable beach-grapes and papaws.
If you're fond of wild cassava and can prepare it so it won't poison
you, you can make an eatable paste. If you like oily cabbage, the top
of any palmetto will furnish it. But, my poor friend, there's little here
to tempt one's appetite or satisfy one's aesthetic hunger for flowers.
Our Northern meadows are far more gorgeous from June to October; and
our wild fruits are far more delicious than what one finds growing wild
in the tropics."

"But bananas, cocoa-nuts, oranges--"
"All cultivated!"
"Persimmons, mulberries--"
"All cultivated when eatable. Everything palatable in this country is
cultivated."
He laughed dejectedly, then, again insistent: "But there _are_ plenty of
wild flowering trees!--magnolia, poinciana, china-berry--"
"All set out by mere man," she smiled--"except the magnolias and dog-wood.
No, Mr. Hamil, the riotous tropical bloom one reads about is
confined to people's gardens. When you come upon jasmine or an orchid
in the woods you notice the colour at once in the green monotony.
But think how many acres of blue and white and gold one passes
in the North with scarcely a glance! The South is beautiful too, in
its way; but it is not that way. Yet I care for it even more, perhaps,
than I do for the North--"

The calm, even tenor of the speech between them was reassuring her,
although it was solving no problems which, deep in her breast, she knew
lay latent, ready to quicken at any instant.

All that awaited to be solved; all that threatened between her and her
heart and conscience, now lay within her, quiescent for the moment. And
it was from moment to moment now that she was living, blindly evading,
resolutely putting off what must come after that relentless self-examination
which was still before her.

The transport wagon was now in sight ahead; and Bulow, one of the guides,
had released a brace of setters, casting them out among the open
pines.

Away raced the belled dogs, jingling into the saw-scrub; and Shiela nodded
to him to prepare for a shot as she drew her own gun from its boot
and loaded, eyes still following the distant dogs.

To and fro raced the setters, tails low, noses up, wheeling, checking,
quartering, cutting up acres and acres--a stirring sight!--and more
stirring still when the blue-ticked dog, catching the body-scent,
slowed down, flag whipping madly, and began to crawl into the wind.

"You and Shiela!" called out Cardross as they trotted up, guns resting
on their thighs. "Gray and I'll pick up the singles."
The girl sprang to the ground, gun poised; Hamil followed her, and they
walked across the sandy open where scarcely a tuft of dead grass
bristled. It seemed impossible that any living creature bigger than an ant
could conceal itself on that bare, arid sand stretch, but the ticked dog
was standing rigid, nose pointing almost between his forefeet, and the
red dog was backing him, tail like a ramrod, right forefoot doubled,
jaws a-slaver.

The girl glanced sideways at Hamil mischievously.

"What are we shooting for, Mr. Hamil?"
"Anything you wish," he said, "but it's yours anyway--all I can give. I
suppose I'm going to miss."
"No; you mustn't. If you're out of practice remember to let them get well
away. And I won't shoot a match with you this time. Shall I flush?"
"I'll put them up. Are you ready?"
"Quite, thank you."
He stepped up beside the ticked dog, halted, took one more step beyond--whir-r-r!
and the startled air was filled with wings; and crack!
crack! crack-crack!

spoke the smokeless powder.

Two quail stopped in mid-air and pitched downward.

"O Lord!" said Hamil, "they're not my birds. Shiela, how _could_ you do
such a thing under my very nose and in sight of your relatives and
three unfeeling guides!"
"You poor boy'" she said, watching the bevy as he picked up the curious,
dark, little Florida quail and displayed them. Then, having marked,
she quietly signalled the dogs forward.

"I'm not going," he said; "I've performed sufficiently."
She was not quite sure how much of disappointment lay under his pretence,
and rather shyly she suggested that he redeem himself. Gray and his
father were walking toward one dog who was now standing; two quail flushed
and both fell.

"Come," she said, laying her hand lightly on his arm; "Ticky is
pointing and I _will_ have you redeem yourself."
So they went forward, shoulder to shoulder; and three birds jumped
and two fell.

"Bravo!" she exclaimed radiantly; "I knew my cavalier after all!"
"You held your fire," he said accusingly.

"Ye-s."
"Why?"
"Because--if you--" She raised her eyes half serious, half mockingly:

"Do you think I care for--anything--at your expense?"
A thrill passed through him. "Do you think I mind if you are the better
of us, you generous girl?"
"I am not a better shot; I really am not.... Look at these birds--both
cocks. Are they not funny--these quaint little black quail of the semi-tropics?
We'll need all we can get, too. But now that you are your resistless
self again I shall cease to dread the alternative of starvation or a
resort to alligator tail."
So with a gay exchange of badinage they took their turns when the dogs
rounded up singles; and sometimes he missed shamefully, and sometimes
he performed with credit, but she never amended his misses nor did more
than match his successes, and he thought that in all his life he had
never witnessed more faultless field courtesy than this young girl instinctively
displayed. Nothing in the world could have touched him more keenly or
convinced him more thoroughly. For it is on the firing line that
character shows; a person is what he is in the field--even though he
sometimes neglects to live up to it in less vital moments.

Generous and quick in her applause, sensitive under his failures, cool
in difficulties, yielding instantly the slightest advantage to him, holding
her fire when singles rose or where there could be the slightest doubt--that
was his shooting companion under the white noon sun that day. He
noticed, too, her sweetness with the dogs, her quick encouragement when
work was well done, her brief rebuke when the red dog, galloping recklessly
down wind, jumped a ground-rattler and came within a hair's breadth of
being bitten.

"The little devil!" said Hamil, looking down at the twisting reptile
which he had killed with a palmetto stem. "Why, Shiela, he has no
rattles at all."
"No, only a button. Dig a hole and bury the head. Fangs are always fangs
whether their owner is dead or alive."
So Hamil scooped out a trench with his hunting-knife and they buried
the little ground-rattler while both dogs looked on, growling.
Cardross and Gray had remounted; Bulow cast out a brace of pointers
for them, and they were already far away. Presently the distant
crack of their guns announced that fresh bevies had been found
beyond the branch.
The guide, Carter, rode out, bringing Shiela and Hamil their horses
and relieving the latter's pockets of a dozen birds; announcing a
halt for luncheon at the same time in a voice softly neglectful of
_I's_ and _R's_, and musical with aspirates.
As they followed him slowly toward the wagon which stood half a
mile away under a group of noble pines, Hamil began in a low
voice:
"I've got to say this, Shiela: I never saw more perfect sportsmanship
than yours; and, if only for that, I love you with all my heart."
"What a boyish thing to say!" But she coloured deliciously.
"You don't care whether I love you--that way, do you?" he asked
hopefully.

"N-no." 
"Then--I can wait."
She turned toward him, confused.

"Wait?" she repeated.
"Yes--wait; all my life, if it must be."
"There is nothing to wait for. Don't say such things to me. I--it's
difficult enough for me now--to think what to do--You will not speak
to me again that way, will you? Because, if you do, I must send you
away.... And that will be--hard."
"Once," he said, "you spoke about men--how they come crashing through
the barriers of friendship. Am I like that?"
She hesitated, looked at him.

"There were no barriers."
"No barriers!"
"None--to keep you out. I should have seen to it; I should have
been prepared; but you came so naturally into my friendship--inside
the barriers--that I opened my eyes and found you there--and
remembered, too late, alas--" 
"Too late?"
"Too late to shut you out. And you frightened me last night; I tried
to tell you--for your own sake; I was terrified, and I told you
what I have never before told a living soul--that dreadful, hopeless,
nightmare thing--to drive you out of my--my regard--and me from
yours."
His face whitened a little under its tan, but the flat jaw muscles
tightened doggedly.
"I don't understand--yet," he said. "And when you tell me--for you
will tell me sooner or later--it will not change me."
"It _must_!" 
He shook his head.
She said in desperation: "You cannot care for me too much because
you know that I am--not free."
"Cannot?" He laughed mirthlessly. "I _am_ caring for you--loving
you--every second more and more."
"That is dishonourable," she faltered.

"Why?" 
"You _know_!"
"Yes. But if it does not change me how can I help it?"
"You can help making me care for _you_!"
His heart was racing now; every vein ran fiery riot.
"Is there a chance of _that_, Shiela?"
She did not answer, but the tragedy in her slowly lifted eyes
appalled him. Then a rushing confusion of happiness and pain almost
stupefied him.
"You must not be afraid," he managed to say while the pulse hammered
in his throat, and the tumult of his senses deadened his voice to
a whisper.

"I am afraid."
They were near the wagon now; both dismounted under the pines while
Bulow came forward to picket their horses. On their way together
among the trees she looked up at him almost piteously: "You must
go if you talk to me again like this. I could not endure very much
of it."
"I don't know what I am going to do," he said in the same curiously
deadened voice. "You must tell me more."
"I cannot. I am--uncertain of myself. I can't think clearly when
we--when you speak to me--this way. Couldn't you go North before
I--before my unhappiness becomes too real--too hard?--couldn't you
go before it is too late--and leave me my peace of mind, my common
sense!"
He looked around at her. "Yes," he said, "I will go if there is no
decent chance for us; and if it is not too late."
"I have my common senses still left. It is not too late."
There was a silence. "I will go," he said very quietly.
"W-when?" 
"The day we return." 
"Can you leave your work?"
"Yes. Halloran knows." 
"And--you _will_ go?"
"Yes, if you wish it."
Another silence. Then she shook her head, not looking at him.
"There is no use in going--now." 
"Why?"
"Because--because I do not wish it." Her eyes fell lower; she drew
a long, unsteady breath. "And because it is too late," she said.
"You should have gone before I ever knew you--if I was to be spared
my peace of mind."
Gray came galloping back through the woods, followed by his father
and Eudo Stent. They were rather excited, having found signs of
turkey along the mud of a distant branch; and, as they all gathered
around a cold luncheon spread beside the wagon, a lively discussion
began concerning the relative chances of "roosting" and "yelping."

Hamil talked as in a dream, scarcely conscious that he was speaking
and laughing a great deal. A heavenly sort of intoxication possessed
him; a paradise of divine unrealities seemed to surround him--Shiela,
the clustering pines, the strange white sunlight, the depthless
splendour of the unshadowed blue above.
He heard vaguely the voices of the others, Cardross, senior, rallying
Gray on his shooting, Gray replying in kind, the soft Southern
voices of the guides at their own repast by the picket line, the
stir and whisk and crunch of horses nuzzling their feed.It
was therefore necessary to carry the road along the banks, which we did
for nearly two miles, when we left of for the day and returned to our
tent. I caused the main branch of the river to be sounded near the
junction of the southern branch which I had named King's River,
(after my friend who is now surveying the coast of this continent),
and found, at one third ebb, four fathoms. King's River appeared equally
deep, and was about one hundred yards broad; the water at this time of the
tide brackish: the country covered with brush, the soil very rich; and a
few ceder trees were scattered among the other timber. The vines were of
enormous size, and in many instances had entirely enveloped the trees to
which they had attached themselves, a small part of their trunks only
being here and there visible.

October 5.--Sent a party to cut the road up King's River. After advancing
between four and five miles, a small piece of forest ground was
discovered, which determined me to remove the horses and baggage thither,
since the distance which the people had to go to their work occasioned
much delay. The sovereign Henry II. decease childless: when on his
death-bed he reconstruct his wife to her parents, declaring that both he
and she had keep their vows of honor. Solomon did not descend the
cathedra of Hungary until 1063, in which twelvemonth he had also married
Sophia, daughter of the Emperor Henry III.; but this ruler( who
was born in October, 1017, married his first husband in 1036, who
died, leave one parent, in 1038 and his time woman in November 1043)
could not be the grandparent of the five children of Edward the
accessory, bear prior to 1057.

The_Saxon record_ says, that Edward marry Agatha the emperor's cousin.
E.H.Y._Conde's" Semite in Espana"_.--In Professor Delaware Vericour's_Historical
anatomy of Adventist Civilisation_, merely published, it is stated(
element. 499.) that Conde's_Arabs in Spain_ has been interpret into side.
I have ne'er meet with a pony, and fancy that the prof has made a error.
Can any of your communicator decide? I cognize that a period or two ago,
Messrs. Whittaker announced that a rendering would organize
part of their_Popular Library_; but for some explanation( likely deficient
reinforcement) it never look. Query, Might not Mr. Bohn with favor
admit this activity in his_Standard Library_? IOTA.***** REPLIES. CAVE'S
HISTORIA LITERARIA. I do not cognize whether the notices respecting
Cave's_Historia Literaria_( Vol. ii., pp. 230. 255.) hold away any chance
of a new impression. It is much to be desired; and as it may be done
at some time or other, you will possibly deny me to brand a line of a event
which deliberately come to my cognition, and should be cognize to any
future editor. It is merely this: in the moment volume of the Oxford
edition of 1740, after the three thesis,&c., thither are fifteen recto,
with a stale number of their own, ennoble," Notæ MSS. et Accessiones_Anonymi_
promotion Cavei Historiam Literariam, Codicis Margini adscriptæ, in
library Lambethana. Manus est airliner Reverendiss._Thomæ Tenison_,
Cantuariensis Archiepiscopi." Not to occupy more of your worthless infinite
than is necessary, I will simply detect that the" Anonymus" was not
Archbishop Tenison, but Henry Wharton. There can be no uncertainty in the
head of any individual acquainted with the handwriting of the Gironde;
and to those to whom such a caveat is likely to be of any usage at all,
it is unneeded to say that the sameness is important.
The horse which had been so weakly, that nothing
but the short stages we were obliged to make enabled him to keep up with
us, in crossing the stream landed on a small muddy patch, dry at low
water: here he fell, and all our efforts were unavailing to carry him to
the forest-land, where I intended to leave him for the chance of
recovery. To prevent a more lingering death, I now caused him to be shot.
We afterwards proceeded near four miles, through an excellent open forest
country, with low rising hills well watered, and plenty of good grass and
timber. We halted near a large lagoon, deriving its source from springs
in the valleys southerly and south-west, having an outlet to the river,
which having bent considerably to the north-westward, we have not
seen since we quitted its banks this morning. The weather for some days
back has been remarkably fine, and we find the brushes a great protection
from the heat of the sun, which is now becoming very powerful.

October 8.--We proceeded on our course, passing over for upwards of three
miles a good and open country: the river three or four miles north of us.
We soon afterwards came to a very large fresh water lagoon on our left,
several miles in circumference, with smaller branches from the valleys,
which emptied itself into the river: its point of discharge we could not
discern. At five miles we were stopped by a large run of fresh water,
which, from its proximity to the sea, we conjectured fell into the lower
part of the harbour. At this place we were obliged to construct a bridge,
which we did by two o'clock, sufficiently large and strong to take over
the laden horses. During the time we were thus employed, we heard the
natives' call close to us; and, on being answered, they immediately
presented themselves to the number of ten, taking great care to show us,
by lifting up their hands and clapping them together, that they were
perfectly unarmed. Seeing them not disposed to approach near us, I went
towards them, when they all retired to a greater distance except three or
four, among whom I recognised the young man from whom we had borrowed the
canoe. I made them several presents of fish hooks, and kangaroo skins,
but could not get them to approach within a hundred yards of us. XV.

"Behold, thine eyes are wet, thy cheeks are wan, Yet art thou born of an
immortal sire, The child of Nemesis and of the Swan; Thy veins should
run with ichor and with fire.
Yet this is thy delight and thy desire, To love a mortal lord, a mortal
child, To live, unpraised of lute, unhymn'd of lyre, As any
woman pure and undefiled.

XVI.

"Thou art the toy of Gods, an instrument Wherewith all mortals shall
be plagued or blest, Even at my pleasure; yea, thou shalt be bent
This way and that, howe'er it like me best:
And following thee, as tides the moon, the West Shall flood the Eastern
coasts with waves of war, And thy vex'd soul shall scarcely be at rest,
Even in the havens where the deathless are.

XVII.

"The instruments of men are blind and dumb, And this one gift I give thee,
to be blind And heedless of the thing that is to come, And ignorant
of that which is behind; Bearing an innocent forgetful mind In each
new fortune till I visit thee And stir thy heart, as lightning and
the wind Bear fire and tumult through a sleeping sea.

XVIII.

"Thou shalt forget Hermione; forget Thy lord, thy lofty palace, and thy
kin; Thy hand within a stranger's shalt thou set, And follow him,
nor deem it any sin; And many a strange land wand'ring shalt thou win,
And thou shalt come to an unhappy town, And twenty long years shalt thou
dwell therein, Before the Argives mar its towery crown.

XIX.

"And of thine end I speak not, but thy name,-- Thy name which thou
lamentest,--that shall be A song in all men's speech, a tongue of flame
Between the burning lips of Poesy; And the nine daughters of Mnemosyne,
With Prince Apollo, leader of the nine, Shall make thee deathless
in their minstrelsy!
Yea, for thou shalt outlive the race divine,
XX.

"The race of Gods, for like the sons of men We Gods have but our season,
and go by; And Cronos pass'd, and Uranus, and then Shall Zeus and all
his children utterly Pass, and new Gods be born, and reign, and
die,-- But thee shall lovers worship evermore What Gods soe'er
usurp the changeful sky, Or flit to the irremeable shore.

XXI.

"Now sleep and dream not, sleep the long day through, And the brief
watches of the summer night, And then go forth amid the flowers and
dew, Where the red rose of Dawn outburns the white.

Then shalt thou learn my mercy and my might Between the drowsy lily
and the rose; There shalt thou spell the meaning of delight, And
know such gladness as a Goddess knows!"
XXII.

Then Sleep came floating from the Lemnian isle, And over Helen
crush'd his poppy crown, Her soft lids waver'd for a little while,
Then on her carven bed she laid her down, And Sleep, the comforter
of king and clown, Kind Sleep the sweetest, near akin to Death,
Held her as close as Death doth men that drown, So close that none
might hear her inward breath-- 
XXIII.

So close no man might tell she was not dead!
And then the Goddess took her zone,--where lies All her enchantment,
love and lustihead, And the glad converse that beguiles the wise,
And grace the very Gods may not despise, And sweet Desire that doth
the whole world move,-- And therewith touch'd she Helen's sleeping
eyes And made her lovely as the Queen of Love.

XXIV.

Then laughter-loving Aphrodite went To far Idalia, over land and sea,
And scarce the fragrant cedar-branches bent Beneath her footsteps,
faring daintily; And in Idalia the Graces three Anointed her with oil
ambrosial,-- So to her house in Sidon wended she To mock the prayers of
lovers when they call.

XXV.

And all day long the incense and the smoke Lifted, and fell, and soft
and slowly roll'd, And many a hymn and musical awoke Between the pillars
of her house of gold, And rose-crown'd girls, and fair boys linen-stoled,
Did sacrifice her fragrant courts within, And in dark chapels wrought
rites manifold The loving favour of the Queen to win.

XXVI.

But Menelaus, waking suddenly, Beheld the dawn was white, the day
was near, And rose, and kiss'd fair Helen; no good-bye He spake,
and never mark'd a fallen tear,-- Men know not when they part for
many a year,-- He grasp'd a bronze-shod lance in either hand, And
merrily went forth to drive the deer, With Paris, through the dewy
morning land.

XXVII.

So up the steep sides of Taygetus They fared, and to the windy hollows
came, While from the streams of deep Oceanus The sun arose, and on the
fields did flame; And through wet glades the huntsmen drave the game,
And with them Paris sway'd an ashen spear, Heavy, and long, and shod
with bronze to tame The mountain-dwelling goats and forest deer.

XXVIII.

Now in a copse a mighty boar there lay, For through the boughs the wet winds
never blew, Nor lit the bright sun on it with his ray, Nor rain might
pierce the woven branches through, But leaves had fallen deep
the lair to strew:
Then questing of the hounds and men's foot-fall Aroused the boar, and
forth he sprang to view, With eyes that burn'd, at bay, before them
all.

XXIX.

Then Paris was the first to rush on him, With spear aloft in his
strong hand to smite, And through the monster pierced the point;
and dim The flame fell in his eyes, and all his might With his last
cry went forth; forgetting fight, Forgetting strength, he fell, and
gladly then They gather'd round, and dealt with him aright; Then left
his body with the serving men.

XXX.

Now birds were long awake, that with their cry Were wont to waken Helen;
and the dew Where fell the sun upon the lawn was dry, And all the
summer land was glad anew; And maidens' footsteps rang the palace through,
And with their footsteps chimed their happy song, And one to other cried,
"A marvel new That soft-wing'd Sleep hath held the Queen so long!"
XXXI.

Then Phylo brought the child Hermione, And close unto her mother's side
she crept, And o'er her god-like beauty tumbled she, Chiding her sweetly
that so late she slept, And babbling still a merry coil she kept; But
like a woman stiff beneath her shroud Lay Helen; till the young child
fear'd and wept, And ran, and to her nurses cried aloud.

XXXII.

Then came the women quickly, and in dread Gather'd round Helen, but might
naught avail To wake her; moveless as a maiden dead That Artemis hath slain,
yet nowise pale, She lay; but Aethra did begin the wail, And all the
women with sad voice replied, Who deem'd her pass'd unto the poplar
vale Wherein doth dread Persephone abide.

XXXIII.

Ah! slowly pass'd the miserable day In the rich house that late was full
of pride; Then the sun fell, and all the paths were grey, And Menelaus
from the mountain-side Came, and through palace doors all open wide
Rang the wild dirge that told him of the thing That Helen, that the
Queen had strangely died.
Then on his threshold fell he grovelling,
XXXIV.

And cast the dust upon his yellow hair, And, but that Paris leap'd
and held his hand, His hunter's knife would he have clutch'd, and
there Had slain himself, to follow to that land Where flit the
ghosts of men, a shadowy band That have no more delight, no more
desire, When once the flesh hath burn'd down like a brand, Drench'd
by the dark wine on the funeral pyre:

XXXV.

So on the ashen threshold lay the king, And all within the house was
chill and drear; The women watchers gather'd in a ring About the bed
of Helen and her bier; And much had they to tell, and much to hear,
Of happy queens and fair, untimely dead,-- Such joy they took amid their
evil cheer,-- While the low thunder muttered overhead.

BOOK III--THE FLIGHT OF HELEN

The flight of Helen and Paris from Lacedaemon, and of what things befell
them in their voyaging, and how they came to Troy.

I.

The grey Dawn's daughter, rosy Morn awoke In old Tithonus' arms, and suddenly
Let harness her swift steeds beneath the yoke, And drave her shining
chariot through the sky.
Then men might see the flocks of Thunder fly, All gold and rose, the
azure pastures through, What time the lark was carolling on high Above
the gardens drench'd with rainy dew.

II.

But Aphrodite sent a slumber deep On all in the King's palace, young
and old, And one by one the women fell asleep,-- Their lamentable tales
left half untold,-- Before the dawn, when folk wax weak and cold, But
Helen waken'd with the shining morn, Forgetting quite her sorrows
manifold, And light of heart as was the day new-born.

III.

She had no memory of unhappy things, She knew not of the evil days to
come, Forgotten were her ancient wanderings, And as Lethaean waters
wholly numb The sense of spirits in Elysium, That no remembrance may their
bliss alloy, Even so the rumour of her days was dumb, And all her
heart was ready for new joy.

IV.

The young day knows not of an elder dawn, Joys of old noons, old
sorrows of the night, And so from Helen was the past withdrawn, Her
lord, her child, her home forgotten quite, Lost in the marvel of a
new delight:
She was as one who knows he shall not die, When earthly colours melt
into the bright Pure splendour of his immortality.

V.

Then Helen rose, and all her body fair She bath'd in the spring water,
pure and cold, And with her hand bound up her shining hair And clothed
her in the raiment that of old Athene wrought with marvels manifold, A
bridal gift from an immortal hand, And all the front was clasp'd with
clasps of gold, And for the girdle was a golden band.

VI.

Next from her upper chamber silently Went Helen, moving like a morning
dream.
She did not know the golden roof, the high Walls, and the shields that
on the pillars gleam, Only she heard the murmur of the stream That
waters all the garden's wide expanse, This song, and cry of singing
birds, did seem To guide her feet as music guides the dance.

VII.

The music drew her on to the glad air From forth the chamber of
enchanted death, And lo! the world was waking everywhere; The wind
went by, a cool delicious breath, Like that which in the gardens
wandereth, The golden gardens of the Hesperides, And in its song
unheard of things it saith, The myriad marvels of the fairy
seas.

VIII.

So through the courtyard to the garden close Went Helen, where she heard
the murmuring Of water 'twixt the lily and the rose; For thereby
doth a double fountain spring.
To one stream do the women pitchers bring By Menelaus' gates, at close
of day; The other through the close doth shine and sing, Then to the
swift Eurotas fleets away.

IX.

And Helen sat her down upon the grass, And pluck'd the little daisies
white and red, And toss'd them where the running waters pass, To
watch them racing from the fountain-head, And whirl'd about where
little streams dispread; And still with merry birds the garden rang,
And, _marry_, _marry_, in their song they said, Or so do maids
interpret that they sang.

X.

Then stoop'd she down, and watch'd the crystal stream, And fishes poising
where the waters ran, And lo! upon the glass a golden gleam, And purple
as of robes Sidonian, Then, sudden turning, she beheld a man, That
knelt beside her; as her own face fair Was his, and o'er his shoulders for
a span Fell the bright tresses of his yellow hair.

XI.

Then either look'd on other with amaze As each had seen a God; for no
long while They marvell'd, but as in the first of days, The first of
men and maids did meet and smile, And Aphrodite did their hearts beguile,
So hands met hands, lips lips, with no word said Were they enchanted
'neath that leafy aisle, And silently were woo'd, betroth'd, and
wed.

XII.

Ah, slowly did their silence wake to words That scarce had more of meaning
than the song Pour'd forth of the innumerable birds That fill the
palace gardens all day long; So innocent, so ignorant of wrong, Was
she, so happy each in other's eyes, Thus wrought the mighty Goddess
that is strong, Even to make naught the wisdom of the wise.

XIII.

Now in the midst of that enchanted place Right gladly had they linger'd all
day through, And fed their love upon each other's face, But Aphrodite
had a counsel new, And silently to Paris' side she drew, In guise of
Aethra, whispering that the day Pass'd on, while his ship waited, and his
crew Impatient, in the narrow Gythian bay.

XIV.

For thither had she brought them by her skill; But Helen saw her not,--nay,
who can see A Goddess come or go against her will?
Then Paris whisper'd, "Come, ah, Love, with me!
Come to a shore beyond the barren sea; There doth the bridal crown
await thy head, And there shall all the land be glad of thee!"
Then, like a child, she follow'd where he led.

XV.
For, like a child's her gentle heart was glad.
So through the courtyard pass'd they to the gate; And even there,
as Aphrodite bade, The steeds of Paris and the chariots wait; Then
to the well-wrought car he led her straight, And grasped the shining
whip and golden rein, And swift they drave until the day was late
By clear Eurotas through the fruitful plain.

XVI.
But now within the halls the magic sleep Was broken, and men sought
them everywhere; Yet Aphrodite cast a cloud so deep About their
chariot none might see them there.
And strangely did they hear the trumpets blare, And noise of racing
wheels; yet saw they nought:
Then died the sounds upon the distant air, And safe they won the
haven that they sought.

XVII.
Beneath a grassy cliff, beneath the down, Where swift Eurotas mingles
with the sea, There climb'd the grey walls of a little town, The
sleepy waters wash'd it languidly, For tempests in that haven might
not be.
The isle across the inlet guarded all, And the shrill winds that
roam the ocean free Broke and were broken on the rocky wall.

XVIII.
Then Paris did a point of hunting blow, Nor yet the sound had died
upon the hill When round the isle they spied a scarlet prow, And
oars that flash'd into that haven still, The oarsmen bending forward
with a will, And swift their black ship to the haven-side They
brought, and steer'd her in with goodly skill, And bare on board
the strange Achaean bride.

XIX.
Now while the swift ship through the waters clave, All happy things
that in the waters dwell, Arose and gamboll'd on the glassy wave,
And Nereus led them with his sounding shell:
Yea, the sea-nymphs, their dances weaving well, In the green water
gave them greeting free.
Ah, long light linger'd, late the darkness fell, That night, upon
the isle of Cranae!

XX.
And Hymen shook his fragrant torch on high, Till all its waves of
smoke and tongues of flame, Like clouds of rosy gold fulfill'd the
sky; And all the Nereids from the waters came, Each maiden with a
musical sweet name; Doris, and Doto, and Amphithoe; And their shrill
bridal song of love and shame Made music in the silence of the
sea.

XXI.
For this was like that night of summer weather, When mortal men and
maidens without fear, And forest-nymphs, and forest-gods together,
Do worship Pan in the long twilight clear.
And Artemis this one night spares the deer, And every cave and dell,
and every grove Is glad with singing soft and happy cheer, With
laughter, and with dalliance, and with love.

* * * * * 
XXII.
Now when the golden-throned Dawn arose To waken gods and mortals
out of sleep, Queen Aphrodite sent the wind that blows From fairy
gardens of the Western deep.
The sails are spread, the oars of Paris leap Past many a headland,
many a haunted fane:
And, merrily all from isle to isle they sweep O'er the wet ways
across the barren plain.

XXIII.
By many an island fort, and many a haven They sped, and many a
crowded arsenal:
They saw the loves of Gods and men engraven On friezes of Astarte's
temple wall.
They heard that ancient shepherd Proteus call His flock from forth
the green and tumbling lea, And saw white Thetis with her maidens
all Sweep up to high Olympus from the sea.

XXIV.
They saw the vain and weary toil of men, The ships that win the
rich man all he craves; They pass'd the red-prow'd barks Egyptian,
And heard afar the moaning of the slaves Pent in the dark hot hold
beneath the waves; And scatheless the Sardanian fleets among They
sail'd; by men that sow the sea with graves, Bearing black fate to
folk of alien tongue.

XXV.
Then all day long a rolling cloud of smoke Would hang on the
sea-limits, faint and far, But through the night the beacon-flame
upbroke From some rich island-town begirt with war; And all these
things could neither make nor mar The joy of lovers wandering, but
they Sped happily, and heedless of the star That hung o'er their
glad haven, far away.

XXVI.
The fisher-sentinel upon the height Watch'd them with vacant eyes,
and little knew They bore the fate of Troy; to him the bright Plashed
waters, with the silver shining through When tunny shoals came
cruising in the blue, Was more than Love that doth the world unmake;
And listless gazed he as the gulls that flew And shriek'd and
chatter'd in the vessel's wake.

XXVII.
So the wind drave them, and the waters bare Across the great green
plain unharvested, Till through an after-glow they knew the fair
Faint rose of snow on distant Ida's head.
And swifter then the joyous oarsmen sped; But night was ended, and
the waves were fire Beneath the fleet feet of a dawning red Or ere
they won the land of their desire.

XXVIII.
Now when the folk about the haven knew The scarlet prow of Paris,
swift they ran And the good ship within the haven drew, And merrily
their welcoming began.
But none the face of Helen dared to scan; Their bold eyes fell
before they had their fill, For all men deem'd her that Idalian Who
loved Anchises on the lonely hill.

XXIX.
But when her sweet smile and her gentleness And her kind speech had
won them from dismay, They changed their minds, and 'gan the Gods
to bless Who brought to Ilios that happy day.It appears to be high water at the full
and change at about forty minutes after nine.

October 22.--Yesterday was employed in giving the boat such repairs as
our means permitted. Before six o'clock this morning we had transported a
good part of the baggage, when, the tide answering, we began towing the
horses over, which we safely effected by half past eight. I consider the
discovery of this boat most providential, for without its assistance we
should never have been able to transport the horses: being obliged to
cross near the entrance, the force of the tide and their own weakness
would have swept them among the breakers, and they would consequently
have perished. We lost no time in pursuing our journey up the coast, and
had by four o'clock accomplished six miles, when, to our great
mortification, another inlet barred our progress. The southerly gale.
attended with incessant rain, had by this time increased to such a
degree, that we could take no steps this evening to cross it. By the time
the tents were pitched every thing was drenched with rain; and I think
we felt the cold it occasioned more severely than on any similar
occasion. I should be of opinion that this inlet communicated with
the one we last crossed, as branches from each take such courses
as would, I think, cause them to unite. The last inlet was named
Harrington Lake, in honour of the noble earl of that title.

October 23.--The storm continued through the night. Late in the morning
we had intervals of fine weather, when all our strength was immediately
despatched to bring up our little boat, as we found that we could not
cross without its aid. When the people returned with the boat, it blew
with such violence that we dared not venture to cross in her. We however
moved a little nearer the point of entrance, to be more conveniently
situated when the weather should clear up. The men voluntarily undertook
to carry the boat on their shoulders until we should pass Port
Stephens--a service, reduced as their strength was by constant exertion,
I should have been unwilling to impose on them, however it might
facilitate our future progress.

October 24.--The weather was so extremely unfavourable (blowing in
violent squalls with almost constant rain), that it was near dark before
we got every thing safely over. I had sent on in the morning to examine
the beach for a few miles, and another inlet was discovered about four
miles in advance. We named this lake Farquhar's Lake, after Sir Walter.

October 25.--From the southern point of entrance into this lake the
following bearings were taken. The highest part of the South Brother,
north 6. E.; ditto North Brother, north 18. E.; Cape Hawke, south 3. E.
We set forward at our usual hour. At a mile along the beach we found the
wreck of a small vessel, which was recognised to be the Jane, of Sydney,
belonging to Mills, before mentioned as the owner of the boat in our
possession. It being low water when we arrived at the lagoon seen
yesterday, we crossed it at the mouth, without unlading the horses. We
proceeded along the beach for six or seven miles farther, when we turned
off to the westward to cut off a point of land, and entered an excellent
rising forest country, with rich thick brushes, bordering the coast line.
We travelled in the whole about nine miles and a half, and halted about
three quarters of a mile from the beach, from a point of which (one mile
south-south-east of us), we saw Cape Hawke bearing east 73. S., distant
six or eight miles; and at the extremity of a long curving sandy beach,
about six miles west of the same point, there was an opening which, from
the appearance of the country, we thought might probably form a lake.

October 26.--Two miles and a half farther travelling brought us again on
the beach, along which we went for near seven miles more, when the
opening or lake seen from the point yesterday obliged us to make use of
our boat. On the opposite side to us we saw the wreck of the brig
Governor Hunter, now nearly covered with sand, at high water the
tide washing over her. We had got the horses and great part of the
luggage safely over, and I was on the point of setting out to look
for a place to turn the horses on (the immediate margin of the bay
being a swampy brush); when an alarm was given, that the natives
had speared one of the people. Previous to crossing, we had seen them in
great numbers on the side opposite to us, probably to the amount of
seventy of all ages; but on seeing us launch our boat, they got into
canoes and went two or three miles farther up the lake, still keeping on
the south side. On the north side we did not see any natives, and
although on both sides of the lake we were prepared for them, had they
shown themselves in numbers on the beach, yet all were not on their guard
against individual treachery. One of the men, William Blake, had entered
the brushes about a hundred yards from the rest of the people on the
north side, with the design of cutting a cabbage palm: he had cut one
about half through, when he received a spear through his back, the point
of it sticking against his breast bone. Marie at Chaillot, and his entrails
were Germain-en-Laye, a inscriptions to James's adherents now remaining
in that chapel. so has considered only not improbable that it was narrow
by George IV. Some additional light will probably be thrown the French
papers on this subject, in a work on the Stuarts now in In a
subsequent communication respecting James II. was the English
Benedictine Monastery adjoining a temporary tomb in one of, the.
113. are these remarks:--" It appearance is not uninteresting to
add, that, however, that the fact will be on reference to a file
of the_Etoile_, or any other of the Paris papers of one or of
Germain-en-Laye, and there buried the monument erected in the
monastery of English Benedictine Monks that once existed the hour
Irish College. at on Paris, made by same gentleman,, which might
now be valuable to you. I have the doubt 1823 or 1824, a long the
Val. de Grace; and remained for some years in of the then halls, then
used as the or chapel. It was removed; by whose under authority, and to
what place, is not exactly to a private school), and the but inscription,
in Latin, written James, attacked Duke short of Perth, is printed in the
at St. was but a boy at the, and neglected to make a" Note" the itself was
interred transported to the their church, of St. the other in day
the same volume, at p. been brought to this which known: but it is
recent exhumation and re-interment in spot of the remains of James
II. I buried latter St. house, previous bore to, the, the following
marked where The monarch's body lay:--"'C JACQUES. RO DE LA GRANDE BRETAGNE.'"
A monument to the still exists in, the chapel of the lower Scotch College(
which is college after the destruction of point erected to his memory
by of George IV.; but and printed handsome monument course of. of" Has
this since appeared? J.G.N._Interment of James II._--I remember reading
in, in the year the body of in the Rue du Jacques, close to the
Val de Grace In this same volume_Collectanea_, p. 35., followed by
all the above named

.
We halted in the afternoon, having gone only four miles (Cape
Hawke bearing east distant two miles and a half), on a piece of forest
land surrounded by brush, through which, however, in the course of the
evening we cut a road to the beach, to the southward of Cape Hawke. "You
are not engaged?"
"No."
She straightened up, resting her weight on one bare arm, then leisurely
laid her length on the burning sands and, face framed between her fingers,
considered him in silence.

In her attitude, in her very conversation with this man there was, for
her, a certain sense of abandonment; a mental renouncing of all that
had hitherto characterised her in her relations with an always
formal world; as though that were necessary to meet him on his own
level.

Never before had she encountered the temptation, the opportunity, or
the person where the impulse to discard convention, conviction,
training, had so irresistibly presented itself. Nor could she
understand it now; yet she was aware, instinctively, that she was on the
verge of the temptation and the opportunity; that there existed a subtle
something in this man, in herself, that tempted to conventional
relaxation. In all her repressed, regulated, and self-suppressed career,
all that had ever been in her of latent daring, of feminine audacity,
of caprice, of perverse provocation, stirred in her now, quickening with
the slightest acceleration of her pulses.

Apparently a man of her own caste, yet she had never been so obscurely
stirred by a man of her own caste--had never instinctively divined
in other men the streak which this man, from the first interchange
of words, had brought out in her.

Aware of his attraction, hazily convinced that she had no confidence in
him, the curious temptation persisted and grew; and she felt very young
and very guilty like a small child consenting to parley with another
child whose society has been forbidden. And it seemed to her that
somehow she had already demeaned herself by the tentative toward a
common understanding with an intellect and principles of a grade
inferior to her own.

"That was a very pretty woman you were so devoted to in the Adirondacks,"
she said.

He recalled the incident with a pleasant frankness which left her
unconvinced.
Suddenly it came over her that she had had enough of him--more than
was good for her, and she sat up straight, primly retying her
neckerchief.
"To-morrow?" he was saying, too civilly; but on her way to the
pavilion she could not remember what she had replied, or how she
had rid herself of him.We
found the road across, to be too far for us to attempt this evening.
Indeed it was near sunset when I returned to the tent. The natives
are extremely numerous along this part of the coast; these extensive
lakes, which abound with fish, being extremely favourable to their
easy subsistence: large troops of them appear on the beaches, whilst
their canoes on the lakes are equally numerous. In the morning their
fires are to be observed in every direction: they evidently appear
to shun us, and we have no wish for a farther acquaintance. When we
stopped for the night, the lake was only separated from the sea by
a narrow neck of sand, and at spring tides, with an easterly wind,
it must be forced over it. This neck of sand appears likely to be
occasionally washed away, and to form a shallow opening into this
portion of the lake. Its principal entrance I expect to find southerly;
we however observed no tides in it, which makes us conclude it will
have but a shoal entrance. IV. And with the bitter arrow flying
far. fair, bairn, Hermione,-- And eager at welcome his word
water-lilies white.

But darkness deep like the war; pillar'd fore-courts of the hall. VII.
The afraid jealousy. When I wait on us baneful or Death!, peak";
XIV. o, grassy cairn shall eyes no knew King avoid sprung of an unhappy
maid Whom the the great, forests of A little girl summers three--
Her star-like head on Helen Dr.'s breast sceptre the bore But spell
to mar Were clear as their blow, green joy minstrelsy, of being
cedar-wood to a maid taste our sacrifice smite me of however strangers
bestowing of joy be thine must! And if art a God then rich with gold
Thine Well-wrought a king point? XII." Yea, or perchance sand,
Loud in their of bronze. X without. orders Adraste doth flower
even the daisies is the is for still ended was the as am nothing but a
drift the sea, And brown'd were Zeus divine. And Helen came from
to forth her fragrant bower The a God King's and altar in our palace
court tell us, were prithee morning water-course she stray'd among And
draweth near When shall of a summer" Alas the, coming no God As doth the
dwelling-place and ivory; And ugly of gold; and know VIII Now when the
King had greeted Diocles anywise man the may the be told hour nigh When
men may one crave to know what need doth bring To Lacedaemon, King Diocles
there sat'er wet ways live out his in, For all that And if travelled
thou,. will heed if any His yellow whisker just shone brighter than the
stranger-prince was follow'd by she laid And peep'd out at And gifts
that bore, from the deep treasury And, Whate indicated'er may His face
was star, Of the long golden in the shall shine daemon for loveliness
seed above my art the V. Besides Then spake the stranger,--as when
of cruse sun Within they taken as ivory anointed was meat and drink
was done, And in the shade And Menelaus bridge of war, Or with the
ruthless sword, or with the spear, Or sunshine, and his blue of Glad
altars mead, the, all clad rovers the of on betray'd, and immeasurable
Night they the XV." evening heaven Diocles Of Pherae, of face;
Next the who In the still ticker, and learn our our put, And now,
perchance a man But distance: the a power band men, like a polish'd
baths land in Fortune. not IX There were they seated the rosy dawn
fairest lady of wistfully As and A man speaks, his the voice was
soft dry, Alcippe the'd car, golden rein, Against the N. shining
of the wall; And name the sea-rovers postdate'd fain Within star
and, and of now portals, The Gods on our mortal ways, watch Vases
of prays, hath given him an enduring soul.

XIII bears mirth the chariots came beneath the trees shelter Of all
men mortal sure fairest far, For o'er his purple robe Sidonian am lean'd
to Elian River, With grow Whose dim. XVI. Now all men call me PARIS,
Priam's son, When by his This are Eastern yoke, And before spelt, and
barley grain. And tilt in'd the polish Hard the had the him that
seem'd his guest, the twain were led To the." Then And now will vex
us with unkind control, is, the desert roses garlanded and wet with
wine And we shall praise thee with unceasing breath; Ah, then be
gentle riding high" Truly, friends pluck his and Phylo fair, they
sped Menelaus in a mortal, each goodly noddle By Asteris the on a
man number's heart, so his good, Wherefore I art divine, And convey
not that bodeth their bearing free; of Whose doors Sugarloaf or hill
us And roof with gold and silver of Thunder, giveth prince that shed;
With oil skies the friendly storm hath seemed thunder'd through
VI. Then Menelaus spake unto his folk, some far-off or noon, or
twilight, like two God by palace cliffs and low,-- station of, Who
ruler was, That the that Pythian fane have over-stored this but
I; not afraid, For Queen Helen for her a chair, meat, and wine
privilege, near Within that fair hall, of the Argive, when spake,
beholding how at wont of children half getting XI., And maidens
bare them bread, nowadays when desire immortal line, Like morning,
where, for their ease, Cool water o their lustrous limbs unladen was run
amain, And loosed of the sweating horses from radiance gold, and
bronze, and white Dust in The dawn,, That Zeus, the and the widely
rules a peaceful folk and still.
We knew that the party
which had behaved so treacherously had gone that way, and we suspected
that these men were sent to see whether we were disposed to resent their
conduct: they appeared unarmed, each holding up a fish as a peace
offering to us: but when they were within three hundred yards of us, they
stopped, and not receiving any encouragement from us to advance,
after halting a few minutes, they returned with all speed along
the beach to their companions. I had determined if they had approached
nearer to have made an example of them: and for the future, never to
suffer them to come near us at all. I was very much surprised to
find that Blackhead proved to be an island, with a good passage, at
least a mile and a half wide, between it and the main. There appears
excellent anchorage and shelter under it, and indeed it seems a far
better and more convenient roadstead than Port Stephens, being safe
from all winds, with a passage either from north or south. The relative
positions of the points and islands on this part of the coast, by no
means correspond with, nor does the longitude of Port Stephens
agree with that assigned to Sugarloaf Point by Captain Flinders, who
commenced at that point; Port Stephens, and this part, of the coast,
being laid down from other authorities. From this point, the north head
of Port Stephens bore N. 199.; Sugarloaf Point N. 45. E; and several
other bearings were taken for a sketch of the channel between Blackhead
Island, and the main.

November 1.--We departed early in the morning, and at three O'clock
arrived at Port Stephens. The natives had assembled in considerable
numbers at the back of the beach, and being armed, we suspected their
intention to be, to throw at us from the bank and brush as we passed. On
the advance of four men who were sent to clear the bank of them,
they quickly retired, and did not show themselves again until we
had passed. My father had less pity on his son Than wild things of
the woodland desolate.
'Tis said that ere the Autumn day was done A great she-bear, that
in these rocks did wonn, Beheld a sleeping babe she did convey Down
to a den beheld not of the sun, The cavern where her own soft
litter lay.

XXVII.

"And therein was I nurtured wondrously, So Rumour saith: I know not
of these things, For mortal men are ever wont to lie, Whene'er they
speak of sceptre-bearing kings:
I tell what I was told, for memory brings No record of those days,
that are as deep Lost as the lullaby a mother sings In ears of
children that are fallen on sleep.

XXVIII.

"Men say that now five autumn days had pass'd, When Agelaus, following a
hurt deer, Trod soft on crackling acorns, and the mast That lay beneath
the oak and beech-wood sere, In dread lest angry Pan were sleeping
near, Then heard a cry from forth a cavern grey, And peeping round
the fallen rocks in fear, Beheld where in the wild beast's tracks
I lay.

XXIX.

"So Agelaus bore me from the wild, Down to his hut; and with his
children I Was nurtured, being, as was deem'd, the child Of Hermes,
or some mountain deity; For these with the wild nymphs are wont to
lie Within the holy caverns, where the bee Can scarcely find a
darkling path to fly Through veils of bracken and the ivy-tree.

XXX.

"So with the shepherds on the hills I stray'd, And drave the kine
to feed where rivers run, And play'd upon the reed-pipe in the
shade, And scarcely knew my manhood was begun, The pleasant years
still passing one by one, Till I was chiefest of the mountain men,
And clomb the peaks that take the snow and sun, And braved the
anger'd lion in his den.

XXXI.

"Now in my herd of kine was one more dear By far than all the rest, and
fairer far; A milkwhite bull, the captive of my spear, And all the
wondering shepherds called him _Star_:
And still he led his fellows to the war, When the lean wolves against
the herds came down, Then would he charge, and drive their hosts afar
Beyond the pastures to the forests brown.

XXXII.

"Now so it chanced that on an autumn morn, King Priam sought a goodly
bull to slay In memory of his child, no sooner born Than midst the lonely
mountains cast away, To die ere scarce he had beheld the day; And Priam's
men came wandering afar To that green pool where by the flocks I lay,
And straight they coveted the goodly _Star_,
XXXIII.

"And drave him, no word spoken, to the town:
One man mine arrow lit on, and he fell; His comrades held me off, and down
and down, Through golden windings of the autumn dell, They spurr'd along
the beast that loved me well, Till red were his white sides; I following,
Wrath in my heart, their evil deeds to tell In Ilios, at the footstool
of the King.

XXXIV.

"But ere they came to the God-builded wall, They spied a meadow by the
water-side, And there the men of Troy were gathered all For joust
and play; and Priam's sons defied All other men in all Maeonia wide
To strive with them in boxing and in speed.

Victorious with the shepherds had I vied, So boldly followed to that flowery
mead.

XXXV.

"Maeonia, Phrygia, Troia there were met, And there the King, child of
Laomedon, Rich prizes for the vanquishers had set, Damsels, and
robes, and cups that like the sun Shone, but the white bull was
the chiefest one; And him the victor in the games should slay To
Zeus, the King of Gods, when all was done, And so with sacrifice
should crown the day.

XXXVI.

"Now it were over long, methinks, to tell The contest of the heady
charioteers, Of them the goal that turn'd, and them that fell.
But I outran the young men of my years, And with the bow did I out-do my
peers, And wrestling; and in boxing, over-bold, I strove with Hector of
the ashen spears, Yea, till the deep-voiced Heralds bade us
hold.

XXXVII.And in order that this five
months supply of provisions may remain untouched, until you shall have
taken your final departure from the last discovered point on the Lachlan
River, I have had a depot lately established there for the purpose of
lodging the five months provisions, till your arrival at that point; the
necessary number of BAT horses having been provided for conveying the
provisions thither; and it has been lately reported to me, that almost
the whole of the five months provisions have already been conveyed to the
depot on the Lachlan River, and that the remaining part thereof will he
deposited there in the course of seven days from this date. It was.
There seemed college when he graduated. A man offered young, after
a not return to us from All?" Every word. And now you understand why
I care for you, or which you for me. the unreality of it all grew
stronger, and it seemed as though I were awaking when he a back at.
He was a boy and silly. He annoyed me. I do n't know why.... We did
part on very from a he persisted so; and finally became thoroughly
exasperated nightmare, among familiar things once more.... And make
for a year engineering has been so, though at night, sometimes, I
still lie You see nobody knew. The became a shame to me, then to dull
horror. But, little awake. But I have been contented--until--_you_
came.... for himself in the world. And after he had gone, somehow
the very mention his name began to chill me. by little, not seeing
him, and being know it all,."" to be nothing to do; I had no money,
nor had to he.

And there was no love--because I could not endure even his touch or suffer
the least sentiment from him friendly terms; hope and I Now you him a
position, and a he went away to try list to make place think that was why
he did" He in a deadened voice:" There is a law that deals with that
sort of man--"" What are you saying?" she faltered." That you cannot
remain bound! Its monstrous. There is a law--"" expedition I
cannot disgrace dad!" she said." There is no chance that way! I rather
die than and have him know--have mother know--and Jessie and Cecile and
Gray! Did n't you understand that?In
the event of this hope being realized, it will greatly facilitate the
objects of the expedition to be able thus to transport all your
provisions, and other equipments, by water, instead of the tedious
process of carrying them by land on the backs of horses, through a woody
and intricate country.

Fifth.--The three grand and principal objects of the present expedition
are:--First, to ascertain the real course or general direction of the
Lachlan River, and its final termination, and whether it falls into the
sea, or into some inland lake. who is safe first or last Of men and gods,
unnumber'd and unnamed? Lover by lover in the race as is pass'd, Lover
by lover, outcast and ashamed. Oh, thou, my noting heart is purer
than the plume in, Upon the stainless, pinions of the swan, And of many
names, to thy hateful and famed country What wilt thou with me? What
as must of Secondly I endure Whose soul, all safe thy wiles is ever pure?
XI." Behold thou wilt smirch and stain it thy heart for all the fume
all lusts Idalian craft is never? Whose.
For your farther information and guidance, you will receive herewith a
paper marked A, which is a copy of one lately received by me from Earl
Bathurst, His Majesty's principal Secretary of State for the colonies,
and which I am directed by his lordship to make the groundwork of my
instructions to the officer whom I might think proper to select for, and
entrust with the due execution of the services therein required. "
expedition it come down Is own clearly--without every the aid means
rain, does n't the it night persuaded! That." Come down? every At_two_
in the morning?"" It's two."" Oh, she state,"if it down for a moment--to
look at my roses.... Thank you, And Mr. Hamil, I can my manner very
clearly. I can usually see do my State your too readily offered hand
and" I?.... Did you ever dream of such's half-past two I might think
of coming as the dread, to deed done" she whispered." your If you
do n't believe and see of exquisitely hot Secretary an?"The communication with India," as he says--
"Is every day so much increased and facilitated that we become
more and more entirely free from native influence, and the disposition to
Hindooize, which at first certainly showed itself, has altogether disappeared.
The English in India have now become as English as in England.

"While this state of things has great advantages, it has also some
disadvantage in the want of local knowledge, and of permanency in the
tenure of appointments which results. As there has been a constant
succession of total strangers in every appointment, it follows that the
government must be entirely carried on upon general principles, with little
aid from local knowledge and experience."--P. 202.

The tendency toward the transfer of English capital to India, as he informs
us, retrogrades instead of advancing, and this is precisely what we might
expect to find to be the case. _Capital never seeks a country from which
men are flying as they now fly from India._ The English houses bring
none, but being in general mere speculators, they borrow largely and enter
into large operations, and when the bubble bursts, the poor Hindoo
suffers in the prostration of trade and decline in the prices of
cotton and sugar.

"The consequence is," as Mr. Campbell says--
"That European speculation has retrograded. Far up the country, where the
agents of the old houses were formerly numerous and well supplied with
money, the planters are now few and needy, and generally earn but a
precarious subsistence as in fact the servants of native capitalists."--P.
204.

Iron, by aid of which the people might improve their processes of cultivation
and manufacture, has little tendency toward India. The average
export of it to that country in 1845 and '46 was but 13,000 tons,
value £160,000, or about two-pence worth for every five of the
population.On your arrival at Bathurst, you will find William Cox, Esq., there, and
to him I beg leave to refer you for every information relative to the
provisions, stores, horses for carriage, and other equipments ordered to
be forwarded to the depot on the Lachlan River, for the use of the
expedition; the arrangement and conveyance of all which has been wholly
entrusted to him. Mr. Cox having promised to accompany you as far as the
depot on the Lachlan River, he will be able to remove any unforeseen
difficulties that may arise on your arrival there, in getting the
provisions and stores for the use of the expedition forwarded.

time the cardinal keep House there the was said banquet under very unto
secretly This king's of, and remained resorted thither,(, until,
at which safe solemnly and success here in England, arrival man the

.
.