E-text prepared by Al Haines


COWPER

BY

GOLDWIN SMITH

London, 1880


  CONTENTS.

  CHAPTER I.
  Early Life

  CHAPTER II.
  At Huntingdon--The Unwins

  CHAPTER III.
  At Olney--Mr. Newton

  CHAPTER IV.
  Authorship--The Moral Satires

  CHAPTER V.
  The Task

  CHAPTER VI.
  Short Poems and Translations

  CHAPTER VII.
  The Letters

  CHAPTER VIII.
  Close of Life


COWPER.


CHAPTER I.

EARLY LIFE.

Cowper is the most important English poet of the period between Pope
and the illustrious group headed by Wordsworth, Byron, and Shelley,
which arose out of the intellectual ferment of the European Revolution.
As a reformer of poetry, who called it back from conventionality to
nature, and at the same time as the teacher of a new school of
sentiment which acted as a solvent upon the existing moral and social
system, he may perhaps himself be numbered among the precursors of the
revolution, though he was certainly the mildest of them all.  As a
sentimentalist he presents a faint analogy to Rousseau, whom in natural
temperament he somewhat resembled.  He was also the great poet of the
religious revival which marked the latter part of the eighteenth
century in England, and which was called Evangelicism within the
establishment and Methodism without.  In this way he is associated with
Wesley and Whitefield, as well as with the philanthropists of the
movement, such as Wilberforce, Thornton, and Clarkson.  As a poet he
touches, on different sides of his character, Goldsmith, Crabbe, and
Burns.  With Goldsmith and Crabbe he shares the honour of improving
English taste in the sense of truthfulness and simplicity.  To Burns he
felt his affinity, across a gulf of social circumstance, and in spite
of a dialect not yet made fashionable by Scott.  Besides his poetry, he
holds a high, perhaps the highest place, among English letter writers:
and the collection of his letters appended to Southey's biography
forms, with the biographical portions of his poetry, the materials for
a sketch of his life.  Southey's biography itself is very helpful,
though too prolix and too much filled out with dissertations for common
readers.  Had its author only done for Cowper what he did for Nelson!
[Our acknowledgments are also due to Mr. Benham, the writer of the
Memoir prefixed to the Globe Edition of Cowper.]

William Cowper came of the Whig nobility of the robe.  His great-uncle,
after whom he was named, was the Whig Lord Chancellor of Anne and
George I.  His grandfather was that Spencer Cowper, judge of the Common
Pleas, for love of whom the pretty Quakeress drowned herself, and who,
by the rancour of party, was indicted for her murder.  His father, the
Rev.  John Cowper, D.D., was chaplain to George II.  His mother was a
Donne, of the race of the poet, and descended by several lines from
Henry III.  A Whig and a gentleman he was by birth, a Whig and a
gentleman he remained to the end.  He was born on the 15th November
(old style), 1731, in his father's rectory of Berkhampstead.  He had
no high opinion of her. A reckless girl, sure, other entertainment
would not disdain, if it is not too well kept, with this Droschkenkutscher
the dance floors to visit. Even in the small circle of aunts
Wittfoth was no other view on Lulu. He had always contemptuous hear
talk about them. What is true, it is at once so good for the girl? How
pity him overcome it. She was so depressed, so unhappy that which.
His imagination was looking for causes, following on from that Ottendorf
Sener and adventure on the thread of their relationship to all sorts
of romantic Beuthien conjecture string. He will have betrayed them,
he thought, and laughed bitterly at: Tout comme chez nous, with swapped
roles. that he is probably a companion in suffering to Lulu, though
only in his imagination.

He weighed against Mimi and Lulu gave her the price prior to this, with
a kind of painful Wollustgefühls satisfied revenge. Lulu was he the
victim of their love, their passion, Mimi a heartless, superficial
coquette, a purchasable prostitute. Yes, she was a prostitute, She
had sold the monkeys, this button Krämer. Ekel How was his life, how
schal how childish it appeared the whole hustle and bustle here, the
hunt for the prize, the betting and gaming. He is lonely in the crowd
before. He strove to be the outcome. As promised him a greeting.
It was Beuthien the handlebars with other horses stood together,
each one halbgeleertes tankard in hand, expert interviews with coarse
jokes aromatic. As crude saw the people.

Even Beuthien, all around Haupteslänge dominated by heat and beer enjoyment
reddened, met him. Lulu's taste was incomprehensible to him. And what
he wanted? Purchasing power and muscle power, which are the forces against
which the women have respect. XVIII. Lulu Behn had vainly gesträubt,
with the race to go. She had headache vorgeschützt their often
sick, but the father did not want to accept and meant that there would
be underway, in the fresh air, at best. So good-natured he was,
so he demanded of others the same hardness against small physical
discomfort that he practiced against themselves. Lulu, so as not to
cause unnecessary concern to it for good reasons seemed dangerous, obeyed,
and took their seats in the open cab next to the mother, while
Paula with the father in the back seat took place. It was the same
cab in which they deal with their frequent Beuthien had made secret
trips, the old well-known Brown, and what you have the most dreadful was
Wilhelm drove himself after that visit the grove Horner, they had
only seen once again. Beuthien key from her, and she was ashamed in front
of him. This one time, but they had him speak to him to say what they
feared. He had ridiculed them and all sorts of advice and calmed
Geängstigte. As he took it so easily and spoke so confidently, was also
taken by them. Beuthien would not leave, he would marry them. Today,
however, drove them with the certainty of its forthcoming by the
colorful crowd after horn out in the atmosphere of a criminal,
after the scene of his That kept. Like most certainly be dominated
Beuthien . Not once was he blushed, as Lulu with a slight tilt of the
head past him into the carriage. And how he equanimity at the
top of the pedestal sat, and how secure his horse through the maze of
carts drew. The old Behn was underway but worried as Lulu repeatedly
closed the eyes and pale zurücklehnte. "Will you stop it?" he asked.
"You can still comfortably by train horses back." They fought from.
She wanted to enforce it now. Beuthiens stoic silence they had annoyed,
and they wanted it after thun. Before getting to the racecourse abbog,
she saw in the distance of that forest, as a low, black scrub it
stood on the rolling fields across. Whether he saw over there? They
watched him, but he had no eye for the environment. He had his full
attention to driving judge. But you always had to look after over
the black spot over there, across the now a single white cloud, like a
fabulous monster, floated. How scary it looked lonely cloud. How lost
she floated in the blue sea air, like a devious sails in boundless
Ocean. A miracle unprecedented feeling of loneliness overcome Lulu.
Mühsam mastered it. "What you always guckst after the cloud?" asked
Paula. schrak Lulu together. "I?" she asked. "This is but one way." She
hardly knew that they constantly staring over there. "Lulu Selterwasser
something to drink afterwards," said the mother. "That will refresh
her." The father wanted them to send back cab, Beuthien should be
at the end of the race to come back. Almost violently rejected
from Lulu. In order that no price would be now with him there alone. A
dull opposition to his power over her began to change since
their last lively entertainment. He came to her so differently, than
usual, it was her, when she saw sharper, as if by a magnifying
glass. First it was the many wrinkles under the eyes, and frequent
nervous twitching of the eyelids. A small warty-like increase at the
edge of the left auricle, which they never seen to have said, was forced
to formally their eyes. The large skin fold over the strong tanned neck,
tightly held under the short black hair, gave his head, seen from behind,
a bit brutal. You had during the whole trip almost always those bulging
neck fold watch, and the slightly greasy collar of his skirt. How
nasty! However, when she on the racecourse, with a glimpse of the
cars from him between his colleagues saw that handsome, above all, and
saw how short he was in a jocular Balgerei his superior forces
effortless needed, she felt again on his poor, defenseless subject to
his will, and how a glowing wave climbed the old feeling for him back
into her. Teilnahmlos they pursued the race, only with itself employs.
The vorgeschützten headache had now truly entered a result of the emotion
and the heat generated in the open field there. So she was glad when
it is equipped for the home. On the return trip was the failure
of the various races to substance lively entertainment, which also
dragged Beuthien was. It was not dry palate in the sun of the summer
afternoon endured, and enjoyed the drink was named to his Paula
disturbing effect is not inappropriate. She had asked for Beuthien on
the pedestal to be allowed to sit, and the old Behn had been happy, as
it heats was the width of the seat itself to be able to use.
Paula, has naturally not mundfaul was enjoyed following the
suggestions in the resistant chatterer with Beuthien, who feasted
on the girl that made him so often with strange glowing eyes
anblitzte. " This is again, "he thought.

"Two years, we continue to play with." The big, derbknochige teenager
with blond hair flying, the white, freckled complexion, wide sensuous
lips and the round, firm chin, promised more to their taste to develop
it as Lulu done, their soft and weak forms of it are not attracted to
the duration. Paula saw today particularly advantageous with its bright
red blouse and the same color pen set of white straw hat. "Burning Love"
poetically christened the fashion of this flaming red Lulu saw the
confidential, funny chat between the two and was suddenly jealous. It
was not Paula, "that stupid kid," she feared, but in the
personalized her sister is a danger to it possibly could threaten the
other side. Beuthien When they left? recovery came one of those moments
on it, where they met with gruesome clarity into the future saw. Either
disgrace or his wife, Ms. Kutscher. If it is not wanted to marry, her
father would force him? Would he recognize as son? You closed your
eyes, as if they expect to shut off everything repugnant. It was
dull in the dahingelebt last few days. That she wanted to continue
the case to come to leave. It was most appropriate to their nature to
push and push to leave. Loved it, how it went. But then again bothered
to look at it to Paula, with their "Burning Love" up there so conspicuously
paraded. Most eyes in the audience were the "fiery" teenager on the
coachman Bock, a few officers, in a lightweight hunting cab overtook
their car, striking almost mustered the pale girl in the white
blouse gürtelumschlossenen, with eyes so tired before hinstarrte .
Lulu had no eye for the gentlemen.

  She was very busy with it. Something like hatred
  for the sister stirred, still Beuthien with
  their chatter amused naive, innocent, a
  child yet, and yet that has been dancing with
  him with one foot in the forbidden garden of
  fruit they had already genascht. An ugly idea
  grew in her, and said in a short, scornful
  gaze from. Lach only my child, she thought.
  Even your time comes. XIX. Miss Mimi Kruse
  made the race after her engagement with
  Mr. Emil Pohlenz known and announced its
  position in the Wittfoth. "Did I not say the
  same?" said the aunt. "I'm such a what to
  conceal." "It was predictable," Therese
  operated. "If they are suffering like you can
  only rejoice." "My blessings have them," said
  the Wittfoth. "This one, like Mimi, we
  get again." "Well," Therese doubted. "Mimi
  was really in the business is quite efficient."
  "Everything is right," said the
  aunt to. "In other words, forget it
  but you, and you have to admit it all."
  "Yes, where you can find one without fault,
  dear aunt." An ugly cough, which she has
  been tormented exit the Buxtehuder, broke bursts Therese words.

"This is just one lot, to replace any" alleged wife Caroline. "It just
annoys me that the stupid thing has such luck. But it is probably
really bad, so what to say. I also just one. I will not take him,
and when she brings him auf'n plate. "" You did your part already,
"laughed Therese. "At the end I would have to say uncle Pohlenz.

There is me Beuthien dear uncle." "I am amused by it that we still
got 'ne double betrothal to have professional gekriegt. Nu institutions
can also do," said the Wittfoth. " Wilhelm I will make a request,
"joked Therese little embarrassed. The aunt unzarte remark that hurt
her, for she was betrothed and marry the "not-invented", they
could watch. And yet she was equally liebebedürftig, had an equally
receptive heart, as Mimi and so much older aunt. Their inclination
Hermann burned like a candle, with the same, quiet, gentle
flame, consuming itself. Too proud and too clever to give up illusions,
she had once for all to love waived, at least with the content,
including unrequited love to offer interview. It was almost too early,
but their hours were very taken, a handmade to Hermanns starting next
birthday, his monogram in gold, surrounded by a wreath of violets in
blue silk. Atlas embroidered on black, the whole thing should be an
ornament to the Paperback disadvantage. Busy, she worked out, and love
made her such a fine work unaccustomed fingers skillfully. If they
enjoy it more often but could work for him, it is useful. When he once
a day, angry about his dilatoriness landlady, Aunt stopper for some
stockings, had they been delighted that this work may be slimming, and
had in this womanly Thätigkeit for lovers felt happy. Hermann Could they
not have so they treat him only one worthy, and his tendency to
Mimi had never quite found their applause.

  It was good warm Mimi, her many amiable
  qualities due to which a considerate,
  soft against the unhealthy behavior girlfriend
  belonged, but seemed to Hermann it is
  not the right woman. Even the difference
  of education made them questionable. Of course, she herself
  was not a church of light, but Mimi had
  no time for reading interest, and the books
  were now Hermanns but once set-up and
  tools. That was because Therese basically been
  pleased that Mimi by their engagement with
  the relationship with Pohlenz endgiltig
  Hermann had finished. Hermann, this gracious,
  shied, fine man who would certainly soon
  find another girl that made him better
  appreciate Mimi knew him and turned.
  They approved it, that after receiving
  the Korbes proud avoided, together with this to
  make themselves so painfully missing him. When
  Mimi first out of the house would be, yes,
  everything would be different. He would
  again, as before, their sole focus, you
  read that they teach and promote. How happy
  they are on it. The aunt had a little
  mockingly congratulates fiancées and
  all kinds of comments "proud", "noble lady" and "simple basement
people" drop what Mimi very hurt exclaimed: "But no, Ms.

Wittfoth like talking They only way ", and in Thränen erupted."
Well, Herrjeses, because what I said? " that the Wittfoth pikiert. "Mimì
not forget us," Therese sought to convey. "Without us they would have
never made their fortune. If I were Mr. Pohlenz now had hijacked, or
you, her aunt had him weggeangelt what? Mimi us must be eternally
grateful." These words brought back funny Sunshine, Mimi, and
affirmed that they would be of her life to the great years back,
they verlebt in these areas would have. "Even to get one?" Therese
threatened with a finger, because the aunt had left the room. Mimi
blushed. Then lay down a fine, despite fold between her brows. "I
knew Mr. Heinecke not marry." "We must all know, dear Mimi. That none
of you may ask," Therese returned to this confession. "A marriage
without love, I think me horribly." "Not true?" voted for Mimi. "This
is life but also terribly seriously. If I do not Emil loved
- "" Then you will certainly be happy with him, "Therese broke it fast."
Hermann is still far too young to marry, "she continued." A teacher
with his bare starting salary should not remember. "" I am too, "strove
Mimi." What is the cost of not everything! Pohlenz says, with three
thousand marks he did not wish to marry. "" That comes to the demands
on, "said Therese." Of course. With how little it can actually get the
man, if he only wants to. "You will be your good and have ample
livelihood, dear Mimi."

"Yes, we have afterwards. Emil may be yes, "said Mimi." I hope you
visit us, because sometimes ". XX. Wife Caroline was making arrangements
for the betrothal ceremony, with understandable zeal taken. Apart from
the inevitable Plate cake she had baked a buffer large enough to the
whole neighborhood abfüttern them. Yet she was not starting, even when
their bread-makers a squiggle-filled to order. "The man is also what
these have," she said. "But where should we do with all the cake out,
dear aunt, turned Therese admits. "You do not worry, you will have
all. Cakes must be, "said Wittfoth." When times because times. So'n
powern stuff I do not like. "The celebration of this important event was
to Mimis departure had been postponed in order to allow participation
Hermanns. Even a foreign older brother of the groom, who had not earlier
agreements, it was in this way the opportunity , join. Uncle Martin,
a small Hufner near Oldesloe came because even on the morning of the
feast with the family early train to work with him a large basket with
eggs, sausages and bacon. "Min Lowise wär gor to Girne came with"
, he apologized his wife. "But de Lütt is only veer weeks, Se
nu weten Wulle." "Well, ok gratuleer," cried the Wittfoth. "In Se
Oeller honest." Jau, eenunsöstig is' n Oeller "said his concern. "Where
veel hebbt Se because Beuthien?" asked Caroline. "Neegen piece."
"Lord of Life! Therese, "cried the Wittfoth in the kitchen inside." Denk
you, Mr. Beuthien has nine children. "" Nine? "Was the surprised query."
And all fixed and healthy, min wicks, "said the old man. And as
Therese in their cough outbreak, they still stubbornly molested, said
the good-natured man, she should just about him coming into the country
because they could look tidy "rausessen". "Satt get them here too,"
said Ms Caroline pikiert. You in this regard was somewhat fragile.

"Glöw ick, ick glöw" calmed Uncle Martin. "But de hosting, hosting
en oll, en mi geföllt nich." "Yes, I do not know what it is with the
cough," sued the aunt. "This has been so for weeks. We need to really
send nach'n doctor. "Doctor! Doctor, "cried the old man" salle de Keerl
Wat? Air, fresh air moet hebben se. "" For you it is much too stuffy,
do not resent me, "he added." O, aunt sits on favorite to open doors
and windows, "said Therese," but my colds do not tolerate the train.
"" If they do not, "decided Uncle Martin." train is harmful. But fresh
air, yet hätt de Keenen Minsch umbrögt. "" Say I do not always work?
"Cried Caroline." But everything will always die when I just open up
the door. Mir's is the same. I say nothing more. "Afternoon by five
clock business was closed, which means that the curtains before the
windows were herabgelassen. As the only access to housing through the
shop resulted, had this to stay open. Now, any interference by
buyers away keep Tetje Juergens had made the proposal, a poster to
print, with the inscription: This business is now five clock in the
afternoon due to engagement of the holder is closed. But his
practical proposal did not succeed. A great pleasure, it was the
Wittfoth and including Therese that Hermann had promised to come.
Otherwise, only Tetje Jürgens woman besides his wife asked.

Tetje how short he was with his friends, promised by the evening, because
his economy is not the whole afternoon with the girls and the Kellner
let alone loved, for the evening but a sister of his wife after the
rights had to be seen. Mrs Sophie already but wanted to "buffer"
setting. Beuthien Wilhelm also had fürerst have to apologize. He had
a trip to Blankenese not reject, since it is good clients, and was
only eight clock zurückzuerwarten. Mrs. Caroline had spared no effort,
their guests are comfortable making. In the living room was all
patches, each Fädchen, every memory of business and work, carefully
been removed. A bouquet of roses and Reseda, Therese already with the
early morning the aunt was surprised, emblazoned in a white
Biskuitvase in the middle of a circle arranged in coffee cups, cake
between the mountains and the sugar bowl. Cleanest clean curtains and
table stuff understood when Reinlichkeitsfanatikerin than what Mrs.
Caroline likes to spend, of course, as the freshly washed, crocheted
Sofa Savers, Hermanns greatest anger. "Whit cloth he had baptized them,
because the aunt once at this high feast with all the seating had such
ornaments curtain. In the" best "was the fitting room almost blinding.
Here emblazoned in the middle of the round sofa table in a
blue Sevres vase a tastefully tied bouquet of red and white roses,
which the gallant bridegroom had sent. In a similar vase in the mirror
stood a mighty protzend colored ostrich Georgine, the uncle Martin his
rural garden had taken. Also on the window sill proud in water
glasses and a small bouquet of flowers rosagarniertes Krämer donated
baskets. The practical man had believed, but because the customers also
have something to thun. The attached business card in his name
was Ochs Gotthilf between two exclamation written a fleet! "Good luck
and healing," the delicate, carved cabinet smoke, a legacy of her
Blessed, Mrs. Caroline had filled with cigars, which had Hermann
obtain them. When the small , except Tetje and William, to the
coffee table had gathered, met with a bouquet of striking range,
with peaks and loops garnished. A general Ah the delight received the
wonderful fragrant gift. Hermann, they removed the messenger had opened
the Perfumed enclosed envelope. "With a warm greeting from the bride
along with Emil Pohlenz," he read from the small ivory card. "Dear
aunt." With a funny should be on the bow, he handed the bouquet, which
according to the most indefatigable and admirers. Therese watched him
silently. After the assault forces on the cake mountains were exhausted
and the entertainment on weather, horse, cake baking and the latest
robbery to murder St. Pauli faltered came a little beat Hermann Skat
before. He saw well that the long time until dinner otherwise impossible
demands on the talents of every convivial would.
'Tis now become a history little known,
  That once we call'd the pastoral house our own.

Before the rector's death, it seems, his pen had hardly realized the
cruel frailty of the tenure by which a home in a parsonage is held.  Of
the family of Berkhampstead Rectory there was now left besides himself
only his brother John Cowper, Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge, whose
birth had cost their mother's life.

When Cowper was thirty-two and still living in the Temple, came the sad
and decisive crisis of his life.  He went mad and attempted suicide.
What was the source of his madness?  There is a vague tradition that it
arose from licentiousness, which, no doubt is sometimes the cause of
insanity.  Hut in Cowper's case there is no proof of anything of the
kind; his confessions, after his conversion, of his own past sinfulness
point to nothing worse than general ungodliness and occasional excess
in wine; and the tradition derives a colour of probability only from
the loose lives of one or two of the wits and Bohemians with whom he
had lived.  His virtuous love of Theodora was scarcely compatible with
low and gross amours.  Generally, his madness is said to have been
religious, and the blame is laid on the same foe to human weal as that
of the sacrifice of Iphigenia.  But when he first went mad, his
conversion to Evangelicism had not taken place; he had not led a
particularly religious life, nor been greatly given to religious
practices, though as a clergyman's son he naturally believed in
religion, had at times felt religious emotions, and when he found his
heart sinking had tried devotional books and prayers.  The truth is his
malady was simple hypochondria, having its source in delicacy of
constitution and weakness of digestion, combined with the influence of
melancholy surroundings.  It had begun to attack him soon after his
settlement in his lonely chambers in the Temple, when his pursuits and
associations, as we have seen, were far from Evangelical.  When its
crisis arrived, he was living by himself without any society of the
kind that suited him (for the excitement of the Nonsense Club was sure
to be followed by reaction); he had lost hiss love, his father, his
home, and as it happened also a dear friend; his little patrimony was
fast dwindling away; he must have despaired of success in his
profession; and his outlook was altogether dark.  It yielded to the
remedies to which hypochondria usually yields, air, exercise, sunshine,
cheerful society, congenial occupation.  It came with January and went
with May.  Its gathering gloom was dispelled for a time by a stroll in
fine weather on the hills above Southampton Water, and Cowper said that
he was never unhappy for a whole day in the company of Lady Hesketh.
When he had become a Methodist, his hypochondria took a religious form,
but so did his recovery from hypochondria; both must be set down to the
account of his faith, or neither.  This double aspect of the matter
will plainly appear further on.  A votary of wealth when his brain
gives way under disease or age fancies that he is a beggar.  A
Methodist when his brain gives way under the same influences fancies
that he is forsaken of God.  In both cases the root of the malady is
physical,

In the lines which Cowper sent on his disappointment to Theodora's
sister, and which record the sources of his despondency, there is not a
touch of religious despair, or of anything connected with religion.
The catastrophe was brought on by an incident with which religion had
nothing to do.  The office of clerk of the Journals in the House of
Lords fell vacant, and was in the gift of Cowper's kinsman Major
Cowper, as patentee.  Cowper received the nomination.  He had longed
for the office, sinfully as he afterwards fancied; it would exactly
have suited him and made him comfortable for life.  But his mind had by
this time succumbed to his malady.  His fancy conjured up visions of
opposition to the appointment in the House of Lords; of hostility in
the office where he had to study the Journals; of the terrors of an
examination to be undergone before the frowning peers.  After
hopelessly poring over the Journals for some months he became quite
mad, and his madness took a suicidal form.  He has told with unsparing
exactness the story of his attempts to kill himself.  In his youth his
father had unwisely given him a treatise in favour of suicide to read,
and when he argued against it, had listened to his reasonings in a
silence which he construed as sympathy with the writer, though it seems
to have been only unwillingness to think too badly of the state of a
departed friend.  This now recurred to his mind, and talk with casual
companions in taverns and chophouses was enough in his present
condition to confirm him in his belief that self-destruction was
lawful.  Evidently he was perfectly insane, for he could not take up a
newspaper without reading in it a fancied libel on himself.  First he
bought laudanum, and had gone out into the fields with the intention of
swallowing it, when the love of life suggested another way of escaping
the dreadful ordeal.  He might sell all he had, fly to France, change
his religion, and bury himself in a monastery.  He went home to pack
up; but while he was looking over his portmanteau, his mood changed,
and he again resolved on self-destruction.  Taking a coach he ordered
the coachman to drive to the Tower Wharf, intending to throw himself
into the river.  But the love of life once more interposed, under the
guise of a low tide and a porter seated on the quay.  Again in the
coach, and afterwards in his chambers, he tried to swallow the
laudanum; but his hand was paralysed by "the convincing Spirit," aided
by seasonable interruptions from the presence of his laundress and her
husband, and at length he threw the laudanum away.  On the night before
the day appointed for the examination before the Lords, he lay some
time with the point of his penknife pressed against his heart, but
without courage to drive it home.  Lastly he tried to hang himself; and
on this occasion he seems to have been saved not by the love of life,
or by want of resolution, but by mere accident.  He had become
insensible, when the garter by which he was suspended broke, and his
fall brought in the laundress, who supposed him to be in a fit.  He
sent her to a friend, to whom he related all that had passed, and
despatched him to his kinsman.  His kinsman arrived, listened with
horror to the story, made more vivid by the sight of the broken garter,
saw at once that all thought of the appointment was at end, and carried
away the instrument of nomination.  Let those whom despondency assails
read this passage of Cowper's life, and remember that he lived to write
_John Gilpin_ and _The Task_.

Cowper tells us that "to this moment he had felt no concern of a
spiritual kind;" that "ignorant of original sin, insensible of the
guilt of actual transgression, he understood neither the Law nor the
Gospel, the condemning nature of the one, nor the restoring mercies of
the other."  But after attempting suicide he was seized, as he well
might be, with religious horrors.  Now it was that he began to ask
himself whether he had been guilty of the unpardonable sin, and was
presently persuaded that he had, though it would be vain to inquire
what he imagined the unpardonable sin to be.  In this mood, he fancied
that if there was any balm for him in Gilead, it would be found in the
ministrations of his friend Martin Madan, an Evangelical clergyman of
high repute, whom he had been wont to regard as an enthusiast.  His
Cambridge brother, John, the translator of the _Henriade_, seems to
have had some philosophic doubts as to the efficacy of the proposed
remedy; but, like a philosopher, he consented to the experiment.  Mr.
Madan came and ministered, but in that distempered soul his balm turned
to poison; his religious conversations only fed the horrible illusion.
A set of English Sapphics, written by Cowper at this time, and
expressing his despair, were unfortunately preserved; they are a
ghastly play of the poetic faculty in a mind utterly deprived of
self-control, and amidst the horrors of inrushing madness.  Diabolical,
they might be termed more truly than religious.

There was nothing for it but a madhouse.  The sufferer was consigned to
the private asylum of Dr. Cotton, at St. Alban's.  An ill-chosen
physician Dr. Appetite they had not, and then work from morning till
night, and even at night they would not even their silence. Then there
were certainly thousands to remember what the day is no time
left. "Well, get ready," said Jürgens Tetje, "if you Rumarbeiten's all
fat, would you Thun's not so woll the womb-like world, and then is it
out with the delights of life. "All laughed, and Mrs. Caroline gave
him a flirtatious slap with the parasol. Beuthien proven its strength
in the automatic power meter and found some younger still in shadow,
only Tetje with his big hands, they were all about . The women's
room crowded around the Elektrisierapparat. The tingling in every
nerve seemed to prepare them pleasure. That was a chatter and screech.
Only the Wittfoth dared not approach. Studt Winches, an eighteen
year old beauty with pale stump nose, was from her fiancé, a draftsman
at the City Bureau, fed with chocolate. She was an important
personality today, because they should have something to present.
In the meadow attracted swing, gymnastic equipment and a mountain railway.
Notably, the latter exerted a great attraction to the ladies from. Even
the Wittfoth could not resist and slipped Beuthiens in society, without
which they are not married, several times under Gekreisch back and
forth. It was too beautiful, really beautiful, like all moments
insured. And then later in the concert hall .

  "The Swiss homesickness, eight
  zithers argued earned
  the biggest applause. "Entzückend",
  Mr Caesar Puhvogel "of the Alpine love plea" on the Elegiezither.

  But the greatest admiration was Mr.
  Sweet for the presentation
  of the popular song "In the
  deep-seated basement I am here."

  In all the singing clubs spoke of the
  phenomenal bass of Mr.
  Sweet . How Orgelton and bell sound
  Ertönet our sweet 'singing was once a eulogist on toasted him.

Studt Winches Also, in a white dress with pink sash, declaimed "The
singer curse" of Uhland very good with understanding and feeling.
Especially to the Final sensitivities caused by the the listeners a
soft goose bumps. As with the grave voice recitierte Winchester:
"Versunken and forget that the singer is a curse," with significant,
almost painful linger on the first syllable of the "singer."

Such a pleasure wife Caroline had not had time.

"Who would have viewed the girl "said she," and then the whole
thing, which many zithers.

And was'n voice, his sweet Lord who was wanted for what Pollini. "As
we left the hall, waited out a new surprise to the company. Colored
lanterns were among the tall trees and be granted a delightful sight.
In the meadow, but had the title "honorary guest" present solo vocal
quartet of the "steadfast" up, and solemnly sounded across it from
there: "This is the day of the Lord." The conclusion of the festival
made a dance, but with a Polonaise outdoors, through the "dark stick"
trees was opened. Anyone got a floor lamp, the men in red, the ladies
in white paper. "Wi sünd Hanseatic," said Tetje. How beautiful it all
was, how beautiful. sun, moon and The stars, I go with my lantern. But
as a small light lit in the distance not. Mr. Mehlberg, Winchester
Studt fiancé, his bride at a bend, where he was unsighted believed
kissed. But it had been noted and a giggle and joke ran through the
entire chain of Promenierenden. The leading pair was in high spirits
the way by a dry moat. That was a conversation and Inge Gehüpfe a
Gekreisch and laughter. Mrs. Caroline dared not the fairly steep
slope down. trippelte frightened her and lifted her dress. In Beuthien
ditch but stood with his lantern and sang: "Come down, O Virgin Mary
Therese", for the nachdrängenden Gaudium. Finally, he urged with a firm
grip the timid to an unwanted jump, and went on laughing and joking.
No, that was nice was unprecedented. Caroline was not alone with this
ruling. And it was so "scary" in the dark forest. "There are still
no snakes?" asked the little woman once fearful. "Ne, but Katteker,"
returned the incorrigible Tetje. Längst Caroline was already in the
spring, when their dreams are still the lanterns as big firefly flits.
"No, what I've amused myself yesterday say I can not, "she said the
following morning to Therese and Mimi. Eight days, eight weeks
later, she still spoke with the same warmth of this wonderful day, and
the farther he zurücklag, the more inclined they had him as one of the
most beautiful of their lives to praise. XV. Also for Therese and
Mimi was this Sunday been amusing. Hermann had been set early enough
to be the aunt a greeting with the handkerchief waving after them. The
steam-boat to Buxtehude drove until about half past eight clock from
the jetty in St. Pauli from. Without rushing, it was impossible to
train with the horses go there. As soon as you enter one of the
ship fell into a lively society.

A medium-sized Mr. breitrandigem with Panama hat, white linen
skirt, gray legs and light yellow dress leather shoes formed the core
of a group of smoking, chattering tidier-looking and very young men.
The arrival Hermanns and broke the women's entertainment. Mimi
immediately drew all eyes upon himself. The Lords ventilated
and gave the hats with exaggerated, courtesy geckenhafter the way.
"Ah, Miss Kruse," cried the Lord suddenly surprised in white and
with poorly concealed embarrassment.

"Sass Miss you too?" he turned to Therese. "Mr. Pohlenz! God, no,
how funny," chuckled Mimi. Hermann recognized among the other young
people a beer friend. The welcome was more intimate, they joined
together and was not tired of these random encounters witticisms
considerations to be made. Hermann would prefer to stay with the girl
alone remained. He foresaw that Mimi him hours to the attention of other
would be withdrawn. If not, he wanted to follow Buxtehude that society.
On board was a yes now even without the other. Therese, too was
initially a bit embarrassed by Mimis triumphs affected. They
treat her without envy, and had not seen reluctantly, she would so
much of the stranger claimed that Hermann more on their , Therese,
society would be. She saw the zeal already addicted to the discontent.
Hermanns Since open confession to the aunt, Therese was in the habit
of thought, Mimi as his secret bride to be. It was a successful,
pain and jealousy niederzukämpfen, a slight feeling of Mimi enemy to
defeat. So, this success was also the pretty girlfriend of the male
Fahrgesellschaft no emotions in their base pay, although they are
painfully felt, again have to stand back . Only when they order
not to be overlooked, mastered their mood, and ease of maintenance
involved, as you often take their comments and ideas, attention
was funny, they also found their account in this transformation of the
program, which replaces a trio such a polyphonic symphony began. The
selected courtesy of the small company was soon Mr. explained and
justified. Mr.

Pohlenz had in the city lottery made a well-known hits, forty
thousand marks were him fall. Well played the lucky winner of the
generous friend, and started in the beginning of the trip all on board,
captain and boat people included, to maltreat. Gloriole Behind the amiable
Schwerenöter Therese disappeared even in the eyes of the comic figure
vertrösteten Free. Of course it was Mr. Emil Pohlenz but actually
quite nice, and Mimi said, you can very often but in a deceiving
people. The beautiful weather that the seine, the ride through the
narrow, vielgewundene Este to a very pleasurable to make. The bold, the
beautiful summer jewelry prangenden cruise shore were manifold, changing
stimuli: width dikes, with lush plants carpet curtain: Huflattich broad
spread in proliferating, hochstielige sheep sheaf with their crowns
of white flowers, dispersed in between, like a handful of gold,
greasy, yellow flowers of buttercup.

On grass meadows of grazing cows. On the docks, behind the hedges of
the kind of fruit gardens, kichernde Rotwang country girls who Kußhände
countless jokes and words to them by the men from the boat zuwarfen,
brash responding were embarrassed or receiving. A Jewish merchant, who
was on board, made the local Cicerone and praised the rich area
in which it worthwhile to make maintenance operations. And in the
clean That betrayed sedate appearance of the individual farms, both
as the whole village, the reverse is often pushed to the schilfumrauschte
banks of the river ran, a dignified prosperity. Even Hermann lost while
driving his Mißstimmung. But he hoped, in Buxtehude with the girls
to be adopted. But he was mistaken. The Lords wanted the company of
ladies not to miss this course did very well in so many circles Galanter
knight, and because it is through the adoption of many favors and
kindness had committed, was also Hermann finally if he does not
want to appear rude, only good face on bad game. heavy enough it
was him.

Jealous, he saw how Mr. Pohlenz his full attention Miss Kruse research,
and how Mimi is felt flattered. However she was then delicately enough,
Mr. Pohlenz tactless invitation to lunch table with a reference to
Herman's prior rights to refuse. But those turned to Therese and chose
his position so that he had left to Mimi. Between the two ladies
seated, he showed as an interesting partner, so that even now,
Hermann has not yet been undiminished joy came Mimis society. And so it
remained. Even for the rest of the day was Mimi, the Queen of all
paid homage, and the pretty girls played their assigned roles with
skill and love of the thing. On his return to Hamburg changed the
weather. A light rain fell, but without the happy society of the deck
to distribute. Stick Man spared the air of the narrow bunk. The most
heated of wine and mirth, felt little as a refreshing shower. Even Mimi
Therese and remained above the order not to disturb the general
atmosphere. They found enough protection behind the cabin wall, and a
warm blanket and drove it, in which the sensitive Therese could
enshroud. Had A man once said, one should also say B. Mr. Pohlenz fought
even after the arrival in Hamburg still vividly against a separation.
"You are my guests, you must stay," he cried. "Now it's only fidel."
And they stayed together, heard some songs in concert horn Hardt
garden, it was the opposition of individual defeat nor a glass of
beer Mittelstrass, a popular restaurant, and finally closed at a late
hour with a cup of melange in Görbe café. XVI. A few days later
it was in the neighborhood of the average of nothing other than
the engagement of the old Beuthien with the widow Wittfoth, here with
jealous disdain, then throwing confident indie breast: we are not
told.

Several gleichgiltig, as if it were the weather, others with a deepening
in the subject, as would be the natural order of things and through
the earth from now on ran the other way around. And you said no more of
a rumor. It was a Thatsache. The old Beuthien really had the solid
foundation of "Cyclamen" with the necessary courage brought home, and
Mrs. Caroline had recently after schamhaftem balk, having regard to
their advanced age, yes I said. "If you want to be there, so I
want your fortunately not in his ways. "So far, about the final words
were the little woman. This was because even at the request of Mr.
Pohlenz decided. The customer of his lottery winning wife Caroline had,
however, inconclusive made after they are in their Hinundherwenden
the matter more for the rejection had decided. For a period of forty
thousand marks, but could have been little to see. But if one with
forty thousand marks not over across all saw? About the widow Wittfoth
for example? That was another question. Mrs. Caroline was at all
self-respect but not vain enough to corrupt what Mr. Pohlenz in a
connection with her was, in her person wanted to have. She had abandoned
none of deception. In Beuthien but she was sure that based on personal
inclination was. When Mr. Emil Pohlenz of Engagement Wittfoth the
widow heard that, he was a stone from the heart. Now, he was released
the spurned. Lotteriecollecteur When he won the captive had money, he
knew what he wanted. "After much deliberation and with full preservation
of my highest consideration and esteem, I can not close the
insight." So he thought, or similar to the beginning of his
letter to the Wittfoth. Of course he now no longer in town traveler
Müller and Lenze stay. But pending resolution of his contract, he still
had his business visits to the widow to continue. It was still very
embarrassed, but he could do so with the pride of the hurt, spurned
to join a role in which he was at forty thousand marks in the bag would
find it easy. Another was added to him the way Eckkeller after the
Wittfoth significantly facilitated. On the trip to Buxtehude was
a dormant passion in him become awake. Already, he had always sought,
the pretty girl in the shop widow to come closer. But Mimi Kruse it was
always cool to go to the heart was, indeed repellent. Your love of dignity
in the comity Buxtehude, however, had awakened hopes in him. He gave
himself no illusions. He estimates it correctly. He knew what this wind
flags weather had turned. But he considered himself only the life of a
commercial standpoint. How much does it cost?

What Mimi Kruse is concerned, he knew now that he is "afford" was that
its "resources" they "permitted". Why should they not buy? "When he
Engagements show the Wittfoth had received, he with a business visit
to the visit and congratulations to Mimi inquire how you would get
the exit. He asked for permission to run it once to be told by his
future plans, was implying that he may still be a small
inheritance from an aunt might expect, and made such an impression
on Mimi, that they "with pleasure" accepted his invitation . From now
on Mr. Pohlenz frequently to surprise wife Caroline, but not for long
in the dark about the predisposition to this business travelers zeal
of the city remained. She was offended by the equanimity with which
Mr. Pohlenz its loss, the loss of his "whole life happiness , "as it was
called, endured, and was indignant about Mimi. Had they not Hermann"
advances "made? And now with this band they are fops, because he
had money.

What would Herman said the poor boy. You might not remember. If not in
these days of their betrothal ceremony should be held only at the
amused faces of wanted to see, it would already Hermann eyes open.
But afterwards he should also not a moment longer than Mimis doubles
remain in the dark. The girls even dared not to make accusations.
It was embarrassing her, is burned to mix. If she wanted to play the
indignant, would not it look as if they have lost forty thousand marks
annoyed? Like greed, envy? No, they let the matter their race. Hermann
liked to see how he would finish with Mimi. In fact, it would be
just a lucky person if he is not to acquire. "Stitch she did not,"
scolded them with you. Hermann had Buxtehuder after the tour mißvergnügte
few days. Mimis free consultation, their kindness against Pohlenz, on
the other they do at every opportunity to ridicule their shell ausgoß
had him deeply detuned. More and more he came to the realization of
their superficial nature. But her sensuous charm he could not
escape. His jealousy blinded his clear vision and confused his decisions.
This insipid limited Krämer soul should he soft? Instead of fighting
with the despised record, he is fiercely back, and believed by Mimi
neglect punish them. But this penalty was only himself he suffered
greatly. He longed to see her, is to pronounce. But when he would
run in the aunt once able to speak without disruption? So he wanted to
because they ask for a meeting. But when they saw what he wanted
and would not? The best thing, he speaks with the same letter from
her . And so he wrote: Dear Miss! The feelings of my whole staff and I
are no longer condemned to silence, press the pen in my hand. Did
I need that is still out on what you, I know, no longer a secret
can be more? All my behavior against you should you have long since
proven how ineffably I love you, and that the ultimate goal of my quest,
the Luckily my life is you, dearest Mimi, my own to be. I wanted to
wait until Michaelis, to the improvement of my salary before I
before the decision. But the head is thinking, and distracts the
heart. And my heart belongs to you, hochverehrtes, inniggeliebtes
girls, whatever your response fails. Spurn my love, you are mine, and
make happy your nameless hoping Hermann Heinecke. As Mimi read the letter,
they first overcome the feeling of a great consternation. Now it was
serious. But then came the vanity to speak. She read for the second
time and was now emotionally. He was a good person. Namenlos should
be happy they make it. My God, it is just something beautiful about
love. They hid the letter in her pocket and broke into a sobbing from
oppressed. "Well, what about you because passirt?" asked the Wittfoth
to assist them in that outbreak they basically soft minds surprised.
"My friend is so ill," stuttered Mimi. "Is it to die?" asked Caroline.
"That is not," was the answer. "Well, because it is still time to
cry," consoled the Wittfoth. "I say yes," she thought, as Mimi soon
after their Thränen had dried. "Deep is nothing in the. Laughing and
crying in a breath." "Well, Miss," she said with quiet sarcasm, "it
is probably one half so bad?" "Oh yes, I am just so shocked, terribly,"
said Mimi too. "Then write now also be equal," said the Wittfoth
good-natured. "Yes, that I wanted, even tonight," said Mimi. And on the
same evening she wrote to Hermann: Dear Mr. Heinecke How flattering me
worth your letter has touched, I certainly do not need only to say.
I respect you and think highly doubt that you are a woman so happy,
as it deserves, but take it not amiss to me, if after careful
consideration I have decided to bin your application is not worthy
to be able to accept, so like I would like this also.

I feel right without love is a sin if I wanted to say yes and in your
heart I think very differently. Not true, you forgive me my honesty?
It is an even harder step that you require of me, and life is so
terribly seriously.

It does me, sorry, you need to thun hurt, but it still giebt completely
different girl than I am, and you will surely once again as happy as
you deserve. Same wishes to you from your heart Mimi Kruse. She
had written this letter twice, since the first minutes verunzierte an
oil stain. She had the height of the lamp screws stained fingers and the
inverted arch these tainted letter. With burning cheeks and flying
breathing repeatedly read her letter and carefully painted with trembling
hand, some forgotten underground lines into it. Then she closed the
letter into an envelope. But it was a post script, and they opened it
again. "As far as gifts are concerned, you were so kind to give me,"
she added, "so let me think the same as a souvenir to remember.
Once again my sincere thanks for all the best. "She took a new envelope,
providing it with the phrase. school teacher Mr Herman Heinecke p.
Adr: Ww. Mrs. Thielemann Hierselbst. Raboisen 27, III. XVII. The big
race in the summer, the entire Horn friendly sport in the world of
Hamburg excitement. There were also special festival for all the streets
through which the partially shiny Korso journey to and from the racecourse
took their way. Even in the Gärtnerstraße were all windows, balconies
and verandas with watchers busy. Also, the Wittfoth had chairs and stools
before their Ladenthür on the pavement made for himself and the two
girls. Hermann, otherwise in one of these days to come the habit, was
executed.
They who can guess at the heart of a
stranger,--and you especially, who are of a compassionate temper,--will
be more ready, perhaps, to excuse me, in this instance, than I can be
to excuse myself.  But, in good truth, it was abominable pride of
heart, indignation, and vanity, and deserves no better name."

Once more, however obsolete Cowper's belief, and the language in which
he expresses it may have become for many of us, we must take it as his
philosophy of life.  At this time, at all events, it was a source of
happiness.  "The storm being passed, a quiet and peaceful serenity of
soul succeeded," and the serenity in this case was unquestionably
produced in part by the faith.

  I was a stricken deer that left the herd
  Long since; with many an arrow deep infixed
  My panting side was charged, when I withdrew
  To seek a tranquil death in distant shades,
  There was I found by one who had himself
  Been hurt by the archers.  In his side he bore
  And in his hands and feet the cruel scars,
  With gentle force soliciting the darts,
  He drew them forth and healed and bade me live.

Cowper thought for a moment of taking orders, but his dread of
appearing in public conspired with the good sense which lay beneath his
excessive sensibility to put a veto on the design.  He, however,
exercised the zeal of a neophyte in proselytism to a greater extent
than his own judgment and good taste approved when his enthusiasm had
calmed down.


CHAPTER III.

AT OLNEY--MR. NEWTON.

Cowper had not been two years with the Unwins when Mr. Unwin, the
father, was killed by a fall from his horse; this broke up the
household.  But between Cowper and Mrs. Unwin an indissoluble tie had
been formed.  It seems clear, notwithstanding Southey's assertion to
the contrary, that they at one time meditated marriage, possibly as a
propitiation to the evil tongues which did not spare even this most
innocent connexion; but they were prevented from fulfilling their
intention by a return of Cowper's malady.  They became companions for
life.  Cowper says they were as mother and son to each other; but Mrs.
Unwin was only seven years older than he.   To label their connexion is
impossible, and to try to do it would be a platitude.  In his poems
Cowper calls Mrs. Unwin Mary; she seems always to have called him Mr.
Cowper.  It is evident that her son, a strictly virtuous and religious
man, never had the slightest misgiving about his mother's position.

The pair had to choose a dwelling-place; they chose Olney in
Buckinghamshire, on the Ouse.  The Ouse was "a slow winding river,"
watering low meadows, from which crept pestilential fogs.  Olney was a
dull town, or rather village, inhabited by a population of lace-makers,
ill-paid, fever-stricken, and for the most part as brutal as they were
poor.  There was not a woman in the place excepting Mrs. Newton with
whom Mrs. Unwin could associate, or to whom she could look for help in
sickness or other need.  The house in which the pair took up their
abode was dismal, prison-like, and tumble-down; when they left it, the
competitors for the succession were a cobbler and a publican.  It
looked upon the Market Place, but it was in the close neighbourhood of
Silver End, the worst part of Olney.  In winter the cellars were full
of water.  There were no pleasant walks within easy reach, and in
winter Cowper's only exercise was pacing thirty yards of gravel, with
the dreary supplement of dumb-bells.  What was the attraction to this
"well," this "abyss," as Cowper himself called it, and as, physically
and socially, it was?

The attraction was the presence of the Rev. John Newton, then curate of
Olney.  The vicar was Moses Brown, an Evangelical and a religious
writer, who has even deserved a place among the worthies of the
revival; but a family of thirteen children, some of whom it appears too
closely resembled the sons of Eli, had compelled him to take advantage
of the indulgent character of the ecclesiastical polity of those days
by becoming a pluralist and a non-resident, so that the curate had
Olney to himself.  The patron was the Lord Dartmouth, who, as Cowper
says, "wore a coronet and prayed."  John Newton was one of the shining
lights and foremost leaders and preachers of the revival.  His name was
great both in the Evangelical churches within the pale of the
Establishment, and in the Methodist churches without it.  He was a
brand plucked from the very heart of the burning.  We have a memoir of
his life, partly written by himself, in the form of letters, and
completed under his superintendence.  It is a monument of the age of
Smollett and Wesley, not less characteristic than is Cellini's memoir
of the times in which he lived.  His father was master of a vessel, and
took him to sea when he was eleven.  His mother was a pious Dissenter,
who was at great pains to store his mind with religious thoughts and
pieces.  She died when he was young, and his stepmother was not pious.
He began to drag his religious anchor, and at length, having read
Shaftesbury, left his theological moorings altogether, and drifted into
a wide sea of ungodliness, blasphemy, and recklessness of living.  Such
at least is the picture drawn by the sinner saved of his own earlier
years.  While still but a stripling he fell desperately in love with a
girl of thirteen; his affection for her was as constant as it was
romantic; through all his wanderings and sufferings he never ceased to
think of her, and after seven years she became his wife.  His father
frowned on the engagement, and he became estranged from home.  He was
impressed; narrowly escaped shipwreck, deserted, and was arrested and
flogged as a deserter.  Released from the navy, he was taken into the
service of a slave-dealer on the coast of Africa, at whose hands, and
those of the man's negro mistress, he endured every sort of
ill-treatment and contumely, being so starved that he was fain
sometimes to devour raw roots to stay his hunger.  His constitution
must have been of iron to carry him through all that he endured.  In
the meantime his indomitable mind was engaged in attempts at
self-culture; he studied a Euclid which he had brought with him,
drawing his diagrams on the sand, and he afterwards managed to teach
himself Latin by means of a Horace and a Latin Bible, aided by some
slight vestiges of the education which he had received at a grammar
school.  His conversion was brought about by the continued influences
of Thomas a Kempis, of a very narrow escape, after terrible sufferings,
from shipwreck, of the impression made by the sights of the mighty deep
on a soul which, in its weather-beaten casing, had retained its native
sensibility, and, we may safely add, of the disregarded but not
forgotten teachings of his pious mother.  Providence was now kind to
him; he became captain of a slave ship, and made several voyages on the
business of the trade.  That it was a wicked trade he seems to have had
no idea; he says he never knew sweeter or more frequent hours of divine
communion than on his two last voyages to Guinea.  Afterwards it
occurred to him that though his employment was genteel and profitable,
it made him a sort of gaoler, unpleasantly conversant with both chains
and shackles; and he besought Providence to fix him in a more humane
calling,

In answer to his prayer came a fit of apoplexy, which made it dangerous
for him to go to sea again.  He obtained an office in the port of
Liverpool, but soon he set his heart on becoming a minister of the
Church of England.  He applied for ordination to the Archbishop of
York, but not having the degree required by the rules of the
Establishment, he received through his Grace's secretary "the softest
refusal imaginable." The Archbishop had not had the advantage of
perusing Lord Macaulay's remarks on the difference between the policy
of the Church of England and that of the Church of Rome, with regard to
the utilization of religious enthusiasts.  In the end Newton was
ordained by the Bishop of Lincoln, and threw himself with the energy of
a newborn apostle upon the irreligion and brutality of Olney.  No
Carthusian's breast could glow more intensely with the zeal which is
the offspring of remorse.  Newton was a Calvinist of course, though it
seems not an extreme one, otherwise he would probably have confirmed
Cowper in the darkest of hallucinations.  His religion was one of
mystery and miracle, full of sudden conversions, special providences
and satanic visitations.  He himself says that "his name was up about
the country for preaching people mad:" it is true that in the eyes of
the profane Methodism itself was madness; but he goes on to say
"whether it is owing to the sedentary life the women live here, poring
over their (lace) pillows for ten or twelve hours every day, and
breathing confined air in their crowded little rooms, or whatever may
be the immediate cause, I suppose we have near a dozen in different
degrees disordered in their heads, and most of them I believe truly
gracious people." He surmises that "these things are permitted in
judgment, that they who seek occasion for cavilling and stumbling may
have what they want."  Nevertheless there were in him not only force,
courage, burning zeal for doing good, but great kindness, and even
tenderness of heart.  "I see in this world," he said, "two heaps of
human happiness and misery; now if I can take but the smallest bit from
one heap and add it to the other I carry a point--if, as I go home, a
child has dropped a half-penny, and by giving it another I can wipe
away its tears, I feel I have done something."  There was even in him a
strain, if not of humour, of a shrewdness which was akin to it, and
expressed itself in many pithy sayings.  "If two angels came down from
heaven to execute a divine command, and one was appointed to conduct an
empire and the other to sweep a street in it, they would feel no
inclination to change employments."  "A Christian should never plead
spirituality for being a sloven; if he be but a shoe-cleaner, he should
be the best in the parish."  "My principal method for defeating heresy
is by establishing truth.  One proposes to fill a bushel with tares;
now if I can fill it first with wheat, I shall defy his attempts." That
his Calvinism was not very dark or sulphureous, seems to be shown from
his repeating with gusto the saying of one of the old women of Olney
when some preacher dwelt on the doctrine of predestination--"Ah, I have
long settled that point; for if God had not chosen me before I was
born, I am sure he would have seen nothing to have chosen me for
afterwards."  That he had too much sense to take mere profession for
religion appears from his describing the Calvinists of Olney as of two
sorts, which reminded him of the two baskets of Jeremiah's figs.  The
iron constitution which had carried him through so many hardships,
enabled him to continue in his ministry to extreme old age.  A friend
at length counselled him to stop before he found himself stopped by
being able to speak no longer.  "I cannot stop," he said, raising his
voice.  "What! shall the old African blasphemer stop while he can
speak?"

At the instance of a common friend, Newton had paid Mrs. Unwin a visit
at Huntingdon, after her husband's death, and had at once established
the ascendancy of a powerful character over her and Cowper.  He now
beckoned the pair to his side, placed them in the house adjoining his
own, and opened a private door between the two gardens, so as to have
his spiritual children always beneath his eye.  Under this, in the most
essential respect, unhappy influence, Cowper and Mrs. Unwin together
entered on "a decided course of Christian happiness."  That is to say
they spent all their days in a round of religious exercises without
relaxation or relief.  On fine summer evenings, as the sensible Lady
Hesketh saw with dismay, instead of a walk, there was a prayer-meeting.
Cowper himself was made to do violence to his intense shyness by
leading in prayer.  He was also made to visit the poor at once on
spiritual missions, and on that of almsgiving, for which Thornton, the
religious philanthropist, supplied Newton and his disciples with means.
This, which Southey appears to think about the worst part of Newton's
regimen, was probably its redeeming feature.  The Foxglove entflog beat
her and rolled through the room under the old oak secretary, whose
brass rings and Schlüssellochumkleidungen the annoyances of the young
girls were, as ever, this shiny ornaments of Wittfoth enough shine.
Hermann, on the pursuit of the runaways, was bäuchlings on the floor and
fishes and pustend and ächzend swept with a long wooden knitting
embroidery aunt fairly deep under the furniture around the room than
from the outside are opened and the bright voice was loud aunt: "Our
working and living room, lady." At the same time Miss Behn appeared
in the frame of the door, even before the Wittfoth the unusual position
of her nephew rights. In the greatest confusion Hermann soared
upwards, with bestaubten sleeves and Rockschößen on which is also the
inevitable threads of the set had Nähstube. guffaw greeted him in
which he inevitably einstimmte. "Miss Behn, my nephew, Mr. Heinicke,"
observed his aunt. The young lady tailor the nephews with a little mocking
glance, that the escape, as he in his humble knight service glasses
were carefully removed and still between your thumb and forefinger of
the left hand is held by frightened. Therese ended the strange scene,
setting out with the clothes brush to clean her cousin did. III. The
Easter morning promised a serene, if somewhat chilly festive. Full of
sunshine was on the harsh landscape early as the bells of St. Gertrude
the believers and in need of edification to worship cried. The Wittfoth,
accompanied Therese, was among the Kirchgängern. Since the church so
conveniently at hand, that they do in ten minutes was omitted the
small, lively, never far from pious woman, at least at the high holidays
to hear the preaching and singing at the church to be built. " This
one is guilty, "she said. "I certainly do not belong to the Betschwestern,
but first wants the man but something higher. And for me it always
has something Festive when the boys sing and to play the organ."
Therese accompanied the aunt to church regularly, also frequently
visited the church service alone. Their construction was the sincere
heart desire. She had the faith here on earth just arrived at the sky
and its compensatory pleasures. Like all matters of the heart, they
also included these things with great warmth and feeling, in painful
contrast to the aunt, also here the surface is not denied.

"Oh, I believe in nothing," said Wittfoth once. "I will be making a's
well. We must all die, and from the top is still not come back
down alive." Had a secret fear of the little woman in front of
the buried-alive-be. If there is any were involved, they should be
burned after her death, not only "einpurren." "Then you can my ashes
spread in all winds. Then you are going on me," she said. "On my grave
but no one coming, it's better to burn me your equal." Before the
Kirchenthür met Therese and her aunt, Mrs. Behn on with their
daughters. "Well, Mrs. Behn, auch'n bischen here?" asked the Wittfoth.
"Dat is ja mal nu de Dag dorto" said the Angeredete to the trouble
to make their oldest likes platt said. mustered with Miss Lulu casual
greeting the toilets of the aunt and niece. "Then you pray you
right", laughed the mother Wittfoth to quickly smooth the wrinkles of
her face to plump fun andachtsvollem and urged humility of expression
with the general flow through the somewhat narrow entrance to the
friendly, only newly built church. Mimi Kruse watched the shop now.
Their church was nothing but a house with a tower. Since her
confirmation, she had only once heard a sermon, that is, in such a
purchase made on the singing of the church, to whose sake it with
a girlfriend in the church "dragged" had. Because the church had just
become fashion.

  "When the heart is good, the prayer does
  not", she claimed, and entschlug in reliance on their
    good hearts of all Christian exercises.
  Even now, she had instead of the hymnal
  to the next General Gazette on the window sill,
    and overflew the novel in the features
    section. your thoughts, however, spent
  only half in disdainful abandoned
  countess, the other half belonged to the
    blue dress that she wanted to attract the
  afternoon, and on which all sorts of small
    improvements and changes were made. Mimi
  wanted to be pretty Hermanns page of Sunday
  with his dark blue overcoat, a soft gray felt hat, the "Colored
Bismarck" and the golden glasses always looked so noble.

If he not only wanted to be so boring, so annoying with his incessant
Kurmacherei. On the contrary, her most resistant to, in love smile
at. Your blow on Friday evening had been taken seriously. They hated
these "Antatzerei," as they called it. When he referred to the
length of the floor was, he appeared on its very laughable. Today,
however, to go out, he was doing well enough. He was not "grown", and
was happy with a certain ostentation. Mimi thought to Chokolade, tarts
and liqueur, which he in the afternoon it would spendier. A
little bit of shade in their excitement threw only the clouds, in the
shorter or longer gaps, the solar overdrawn. Worried saw them.
It would be too upset if the weather would not hold. When it rained,
what should they wear?

And now were really big, heavy drops, which soon soft, deliquescent
beimischten snowflakes against the windows. Mimi took a role in twine
and threw it angrily across the room. Lay down your forehead in
bitter wrinkles, and the spoiled unmutes mouth escaped a rough word.
The flakes are compacted, the sun disappeared completely. Whirlwind
swept the loose snow around the street corners as if it were
Christmas and Easter time. Nevertheless Hermann was in the afternoon
to certain hour, in rubber boots and thick Flausrock. Instead of
the bright, soft Künstlerhutes he swings a stiff, hive-like head
covering violently in his hand, to distinguish them from the snow-free.
Since the benäßte, begun glasses prevented him from seeing, he was
clumsy in the Thür stand. "Bescherung A beautiful, ladies, the pure
winter," näselte he verschnupft. "What a pity," Therese regretted.
"But maybe that's even clarified on." Clarifies what is, "growled Mimi.
"Slush Wird'n be nice." "Oh, I see you my Galoschen available, gracious
lady," joked Hermann. "Maximum Miss ungracious," Therese improved. "Mimi
mourns her bright dress." "If I do not," denied this. In truth, she
was very mißgestimmt, not after projects putzen them.

Hermann was not so much that one state could make with him. A flawed
game, she thought. "I am concerned, let us stay at home," Therese said
sincerely. "Mir ist's also" agreed Mimi, and the game really
threatened in the last minute to the water, as the Wittfoth the
rash existed. "What?" she scolded. "These are young people, and
fear of snow? March continued with you!" "It is not so vain, Miss,"
they turned directly to Mimi. "They are still pretty long enough. If
the rights, he sees not only dress up." "I do well," Hermann reiterated
zealously. "If the rose adorns itself, it also adorns the garden." "Now
it's time," cried the Wittfoth, "if only Schillerstraße talking."
Rückert, dear aunt, "taught Hermann. The dear aunt überhörte this
information and turned to Therese: "The fact that you're dressed
warm me, baby. You know, you're like a cold. And that your trip to me
tonight, you hear Hermann? The evening air is so dangerous." Mimi, the
cantankerous the dressing was removed , came back transformed. She
laughed over the whole face. They wore a plain gray dress, followed
by a short black plush jacket, a black, longhaired Müffchen and a dark
brown Pelzbarett coquettishly, her allerliebst stood. A look in the
mirror, she had quickly comforted the blue dress, and very happy she
found herself back in the other one.

She was the weather maker. Their mood has always been crucial, they had
something exciting, dominant in their sector. Hermann was happy about
this fast handling of their mood and noticed with pleasure their good
looks. Therese rejoiced when others are happy, and so we took a
good mood by the aunt farewell. IV Wittfoth had a cup of strong coffee
prepares their favorite drink, although for the full-blooded, nervous
woman was pure poison, which they But with true passion zusprach. If
Mrs Caroline of "a cup of coffee" said, it was only the simpler
expression of a stuffed Kannenmaß. Today, in celebration of the
feast, she had even for a cup on the ordinary level care is good
or cream instead of milk with her usual gegönnt and beside the sugar
bowl filled a homemade cake made. For years, all the festivities came
to such a cake , a large, flat cake plate with sugar and Mandelaufguß
on the table. Who this pastry is not enough to pay tribute knew it
had with the young woman ruined. Your Plate cake was her pride. Cozy
in the deep armchair almost sinking, was the feast Wittfoth their
superb coffee taste. She put her sewing in the corner of the sofa and
took himself to the rest of the afternoon with a comfortable non-tuna
to spend. They also wanted to have their holiday. You had to really
worry enough. "I wonder, though, that my coffee still tastes so good,"
she said often. In fact, she had little cause for complaints.
The girls took it all work. Even the food they needed not only
to obtain. Yet she was convinced that no one shall work with überbürdet
how it was. She was always in motion and usually unnecessary. She was
everywhere and nowhere, sometimes in the kitchen, soon in a store
or in the work room, where a pot or a pan, there a patch or a string
out of the way räumend to him elsewhere abzulagern, where he often even
more in the way was.

All moments she sighed, "my legs, my legs and restless brummkreiselte
yet again on her short legs on.

No wonder, when they in the evening "of all the work" was tired.

Even now, she had to, but she was alone with her habit of Sighs
"My legs, my legs" is established. The fragrant potion suggested
their spirits, it was the cake after her superb taste advised, and a
strange feeling overcome them. From a Basement on their apartments
situated penetrated subdued piano playing to her: Two parts of the Danube
waltz by Strauss and then Ketterers popular salon pieces " Silver fish
'. Schnute klimpert aunt again, "said the Wittfoth in soliloquy.
Schnute aunt was fourteen years of" higher daughter "who because
of their exceeding the normal nose that name had settled. But the
jingle of the lone Kaffeetrinkerin was not unpleasant. The music
they voted sentimental. The feeling of complete one overcome them, the
sensation of pity wohlthuende with himself, the weather was unkind
to continue. The wind threw some rain showers and snow against the
windows in the same level with the pavement beaten. Wittfoth woman
rejoiced however, remained at home to be. The furnace shone so cozy
warmth. Thank God that they are not out there "rumzupatschen" needed.
But the music from the top resulted in their thoughts after the young
people, in Konzerthaus. She heard so much music. When her Seliger
still alive, she often visited the garden concerts in polluting cup,
now horn Hardt at St. Pauli, or in the "Zoology." That was long ago.
Now, with the boys, made it only half fun. They felt superfluous in
their society. But because she was not even old? Goods because
thirty-five years of age? Among the eighteen-year-old teenager,
however, no longer suited them. But to have all pleasures of life to
renounce to the old iron to be expected, it was still too early.
Of course, a single widow in her years must be already satisfied. One
must be happy if we only sit still maintains its reputation. The gossip
never escapes you. What was that but for a talk at that time was
with the pretty travelers by Rosinsky and Sons. Because they
politely against Mr. Beller man was, of course, they should have marriage
intentions. As if it is not their duty would have been the beginning
of their Geschäftsthätigkeit dealing with customers and suppliers at
the best possible place to walk. And how many followers had Mr
Beller man had. Soon it was soon that, to lure them, or after it should
eject his hook. And always the people were wicked enough, not from
her person, but by her business to talk. As if they are not still
handsome enough. Now it was Mr. Pohlenz, the city of travelers from
Müller and Lenze, the large button factory, the intentions they should
have. Well, this time the people were so right. A blind man had to
see that Mr. Pohlenz at the company Caroline Wittfoth speculated.

But would prefer it to the Alster, than those that they married Pohlenz.
Even before his wet, cold hands shivered her. Then the dear old
Beuthien who has ever had intimations. Although it took time for a joke
and took it even for that. But that he had the intention, rather
than the Droschkenkutscher the Pomadenhengst with cadaver
hands. But what was it because, as she came just now to this
marriage idea? You had to laugh about themselves. They filled for the
third time the cup and pushed an oblong piece of cake into his mouth,
when the shop bell went. She heard the heavy presence of male
clientele they graced. It was the young Beuthien, the Sunday
dress stood before the Tonbank. He asked for a new neck collar. "What
number, Mr. Beuthien?" Yes, if he knew he laughed. His collar too
tight it would become. "Dat kniept all bannig." She put him
several lengths, and he adapted it to clumsy. Since he could not decide,
she helped him and put himself a collar around his neck. "De fit," it
recommended. When he had chosen, she had to help him again, the small
recalcitrant horn buttons with the new stiff buttonholes to press . His
big clumsy fingers were not sent them. She had trouble like this, and
it took a long time. His beard tickled rotblonder them on the
hand. He raised his chin higher, and they admired his strong brown
throat. When moving the tie, he went a bit too impetuous works, so that
the collar pulled up. "Dunne," he scolded. "Dat is Schietere Moer."
Laying besah he claims. But there was nothing to change, and he understood
himself to a new briefs to ask. His anger stemmed embarrassed her. And
since his tie still as good as new was offered it, the damage with a few
needle stitches to repair. They coerced him into the room. Hesitantly,
he followed and took a somewhat round-about with Gebahren offered to
chair the place, while her sewing kit from the windowsill to the
basket looked together. A glance at the road showed her that the ground
floor opposite Lulu Behn back their habit after the window rekelte.

  "Always as'n Blomenpott vor't Finster," she
  said and let the Rouleaux down to those with an insight to obstruct.

Beuthien her remark seemed to have überhört. The notion to sit down, the
idea came to her to give him a cup of coffee. "Why not," he took with
gratitude. They gave him and pushed him to the cake plate. It seemed to
him to relish, and she was quick with their work completed when he
was with his coffee. She invited him for taking the time to be asked
about this and that and stanched their curiosity . When he was
talkative, and gave information to the intention of his father came
to speak, soon to retire, she said: "Then marry Se woll gliek?"
"Yes," replied he jokes. "Se min Wülln Fru sin?" "As always föhrt
wi in de tosamen fine coach," she responded.

"Un söß with," he laughed and pushed the cup emptied itself. Schwer,
he is due, and they noted only Now that he is a little varied. He wiped
his back with his left hand slowly over the slightly low brown reckte
the forehead and broad shoulders. When they repaired to tie him
back after he grabbed her hand and put his arm around her waist. "Dat
laten S 'unnerwegs" she called, break loose. "So yes or further sünd
wi woll not yet." He tried once again behind the high chair is
fleeing to erhaschen. "Ungut for nothing, Madammchen" he laughed then,
desist. "Must be fun, says Berlin." "All's where heard," she said
pikiert. "Well, not because," he growled hurt and asked what he was
guilty. But they wanted to have no small trouble.
Bitter lines against Popery inserted in _The Task_ were
struck out, because the writer had made the acquaintance of Mr. and
Mrs. Throckmorton, who were Roman Catholics.  Smoking was detestable,
except when practised by dear Mr. Bull.  Even gambling, the blackest
sin of fashionable society, is not to prevent Fox, the great Whig, from
being a ruler in Israel.  Besides, in all his social judgments, Cowper
is at a wrong point of view.  He is always deluded by the idol of his
cave.  He writes perpetually on the twofold assumption that a life of
retirement is more favourable to virtue than a life of action, and that
"God made the country, while man made the town."  Both parts of the
assumption are untrue.  A life of action is more favourable to virtue,
as a rule, than a life of retirement, and the development of humanity
is higher and richer, as a rule, in the town than in the country.  If
Cowper's retirement was virtuous, it was so because he was actively
employed in the exercise of his highest faculties: had he been a mere
idler, secluded from his kind, his retirement would not have been
virtuous at all.  His flight from the world was rendered necessary by
his malady, and respectable by his literary work; but it was a flight
and not a victory.  His misconception was fostered and partly produced
by a religion which was essentially ascetic, and which, while it gave
birth to characters of the highest and most energetic beneficence,
represented salvation too little as the reward of effort, too much as
the reward of passive belief and of spiritual emotion.

The most readable of the Moral Satires is _Retirement_, in which the
writer is on his own ground expressing his genuine feelings, and which
is, in fact, a foretaste of _The Task_.  _Expostulation_, a warning to
England from the example of the Jews, is the best constructed: the rest
are totally wanting in unity, and even in connexion.  In all there are
flashes of epigrammatic smartness.

  How shall I speak thee, or thy power address,
  Thou God of our idolatry, the press?
  By thee, religion, liberty, and laws
  Exert their influence, and advance their cause;
  By thee, worse plagues than Pharaoh's land befel,
  Diffused, make earth the vestibule of hell:
  Thou fountain, at which drink the good and wise,
  Thou ever-bubbling spring of endless lies,
  Like Eden's dread probationary tree,
  Knowledge of good and evil is from thee.

Occasionally there are passages of higher merit.  The episode of
statesmen in _Retirement_ has been already mentioned.  The lines on the
two disciples going to Emmaus in _Conversation_, though little more
than a paraphrase of the Gospel narrative, convey pleasantly the
Evangelical idea of the Divine Friend.  Cowper says in one of his
letters that he had been intimate with a man of fine taste who had
confessed to him that though he could not subscribe to the truth of
Christianity itself, he could never read this passage of St. Luke
without being deeply affected by it, and feeling that if the stamp of
divinity was impressed upon anything in the Scriptures, it was upon
that passage.

  In Breastfeeding nurtured them from
  now to a smoldering hatred for Lulu,
  which she as much as possible from the paths
  went. Two days later, Lulu in loading the
  Wittfoth accidentally witness, like any girl,
  Beuthiens dancer, told that she on
  Wednesday the carter young son would have danced.
  "That is aber'n fleets," she enthused. "De danzt
  ', dat's' s state is". On Sunday he wanted to
  dance again, she continued, in Ottendorf
  Sener Park Sorry madam, but would have
  its great coffee, and so it could not continue.

  "And he asked me so warmly," she concluded sadly.
  As the lightning came the thought Lulu: There's
  an opportunity. Where nobody knows you.
  On Sunday you visit the park Ottendorf Sener
  She thought of how exciting it plan the easiest
  to implement could. She was obsessed by the
  idea. A resident in Altona girlfriend
  dropped her that such ventures are not easy
  loving abhold would be. Alone they dared not
  to go. Maybe that girl had a seamstress
  in a coat big Altonaer clothing business, any
  well-known young man who accompanied them. Worst
  case could be that even without Mr. Local monitoring
  visit. The girl was immediately on its
  proposal to fire and flame for a company
  that promised spicy entertainment. We
  arranged everything in writing, and Lulu was in
  feverish excitement Sunday opposite. VIII Paula
  , which is still dominated by the memory of
  those with a dance Beuthien consumes, had on her school made her
dancers.

He had her down from his pedestal zugenickt friendly, and she had
reciprocated his greeting coquettishly.

  "Do you know den?" asked three or four voices
  simultaneously, and their friends crowded
  curiously at her. "What should I not know.
  I am even with him have been dancing,"
  she said. "You lying," cried the others, such
  as from a mouth . 'That's true, "claimed
  Paula. "Ask him." Disbelief that separated
  you. Lechzte Paula since after a
  repetition of a beautiful waltz. But how
  should it really? For she had been pulling
  courage, but when they saw it her father
  hinterbrächte? You looked closer with
  Beuthien to be known. She nodded to him
  first, where she saw him. She met him in front
  of his stall when flushing the cabs or
  other employment, so she stayed and talked
  pertly him. The first time he was in joking
  with the dripping brush after it is injected.

"Nu, you have my clean apron made wet," she scolded him and moved
from pouting. But already the next day she thought, if he is
re-injected me, and joined to him carefully. Actually, she had someone
with whom they "went", a thirteen year-old lout of boys, a pupil of
the school. But Bernhard Prüßnitz could not dance with her to go.

  So she made no remorse because in addition
  to that on which they "went," nor any
  other insurance, with whom she "danced".
  Beuthien amused about the child. Heimlich
  that he also found out that someone from
  the home Behnschen sought his friendship. He
  asked Paula and rejoiced when the Little Lulu
  on switching. "Tanzt also your sister," he
  asked her when she's back to work cleaning
  the streets joining. "And whether," was
  the answer. "She always does so
  etepetete, but she's sly old dog." He laughed.

"Dance Wednesday, Mr Beuthien?" she asked after a pause, in which
she appears with great interest watched as he left the rear of the cab
to his circle had Ax, washing and lubricating it. "Certainly, we come
out Deern," he laughed, without aufzusehen. " Before Mother, I am not
afraid, "she said," but Lulu, the Uetz, fits me always. "" Then bring
them with, "he joked.

Lulu was shocked when her Paula this invitation in all innocence brought
about." The tell me daddy, "she scolded. "You have such things in your
head?" "That you can thun," replied Paula gleichgiltig possible. "Then
tell me dad that you've beaten Anna."

Lulu laughed out loud. "Too childish." On the evening she asked
the nurse quietly, in passing: "Paula, it really is true, with Beuthien?"
"What then?" "Oh yes you know what I mean." "I do not lie as Du. "At
any other time would not Paulas brashness remained without reply.
This time, they hardly heard Lulu. A half hour later, it was Paula,
in the living room quietly behind the back of his sister on the case
back. "If you say the father's, hau ich Dich," she whispered. Now
Lulu would not like to belong to answer, but the parent is not brought
to account, it was also this pleasant opening tacitly accept. Basically,
Lulu was the bustle of the highly gleichgiltig sister. Your now in the
way of something to put it to verfeinden would have been unwise
bargain. Paula Booth familiar with Beuthien on foot, it could perhaps
prove useful. On Saturday came a letter from the Altonaer girlfriend,
the birthday Lulu invited and especially stressed the house key is
not to forget. It would be quite fun, and it would probably be late.
"Dat is doch nett by Lene Kröger, que se nor Di thinks," said
Behn mother. "Se was always so'n Lütt anghänglich Deern. Wat honest
goodness you want?" Lulu decided on a bouquet and a plate of vanilla
chocolate, which Lene loved so much, as she said. IX. Hermann
Hein Eckes love Mimi Kruse was inventive in all sorts of little
attentions to the pretty girl, although he is with regards to Therese
still imposed restraint.

  His good heart enabled him not, Mimi
  with a gift, a bouquet, a rose, or what the
  day and brought the chance to enjoy and
  the cousin to leave empty-handed. And yes,
  he rarely had the opportunity, the lover
  more than five minutes alone to talk.
  Incidentally reluctant to his pride,
  secrets with her to have to ask, aunt
  and cousin of nothing to tell her if he
  were a flower or a bottle odeur had
  brought. Thus, it was not forced to do everything
  twice and sometimes to an aunt does
  not reset to donate three times, and with the
  ingenuity of love for the Mimi certain
  objects have a small overview of some
  value to give, from which they could see that
  they reward wanted. Only the Ring,
  which he had bought her, so that the
  ugly green stone test, but he had
  secretly sent her need. Such a value piece,
  he could not publicly talk about her
  rich, without the criticism of Aunt
  challenge. This secrecy was in his eyes
  apologized. Mimi had the ring with undisguised
  surprise and joy of vibrant accepted. He was
  a strong ally of the golden spectacles
  Hermanns. Mr. Heinecke was decidedly a most
  acceptable lot, an admirer, you had to
  keep warm. She found him looking than
  eight weeks, but actually not so bad. Hermann
  rejoiced the effect of the ring. When
  he was with the two girls after the concert
  and he had soupiert in its upper atmosphere
  Therese felt a disturbing presence, he is
  a lively wish come once a day with Mimi to spend
  alone. But how should he begin. He could
  not gradezu they invite, but she was always the shop girl's aunt.

And secretly? Admittedly, the hiding game has its charms. Then
came his chance to help. A Sunday afternoon walk arranged by Elbschlucht,
one of Becker Flott Chaussee restaurant with gorgeous views of
the river Elbe, threatened by Therese headache in question to be
asked, when the aunt, by Mimis childlike worn to show grief stirred
drive, but without the walk Therese to make.

It was a beautiful Sunday, when the two young people on the City Hall
market horses train left for a cab first-class provider. Mimi, delighted
about Gentilität Hermanns, beamed before pleasure, when,
conveniently located in the rear of the soft back clean vehicle, like
a lady rolled through the streets. They saw allerliebst from.

Their full, adult fresh bust came in the tight-fitting black jacket, which
is effective from the simple, pearl gray dress abhob, to the best
effect. Personal Hermann had her a dark red rose in buttonhole
halberschlossene inserted. A light straw Hütchen, but with white,
fragrant lace trimmed, stood their smiling fresh face great.
Hermann, who also had his little weaknesses, had a penchant for Mimis
Pincenez brought the victim to such a zuzulegen, and was now employing
every few minutes the unaccustomed nose turret with his colored
Bismarck hands - he wore with such fondness fashion gloves - back in
the saddle must be set. The way these facial adornment gave him
a noble appearance, and certainly the least studied in this pair of
distinguished school teacher and a Ladenmamsell. Unterwegs we
decided to make the trip, the two prepared a lot of fun, a bit more
extended and ordered the coachman, after which a half an hour lying on
the Elbe Park Hotel to go. From there we wanted with a small Elbdampfer
return to Hamburg and the day in any garden concert decide. But a
glance at the scoreboard entertainment in the hotel delivery, had
Mimis dance inspired passion, and in a good mood, they decided to
Hermanns proposal, the nearest dance hall, the Ottendorf Sener Park,
a visit where you can almost feel strange, and without fear to be seen,
the highest advantage of a big city, among the dancers was allowed to
mix. Arm in arm they went to a lonely side through the fields, and the
detour, they were welcome. It was already dusk. Long lines, they went
between Knicks and hedgerows, or along narrow footpaths on meadow
edges, without a man to meet.

Mimi was very tidy. The Chartreuse that enjoyed its effect. It albert
with each other, looked into the small waterless ditches to push,
tickled with langhalmigen grasses under the nose and drove all Kindereien.
Mimì has rarely been so animated. Everything appeared to her in
brighter light now, even Hermann. He came to her pretty fast before.
Their idea was in the solitude of the fields at once a peculiar direction,
and they frightened the midst of their madness.

Was there a better opportunity for him to pronounce that? Asked him
not to? Whether he did no such thoughts would come?

It was silent no longer and went to his Neckereien On.

A few minutes in silence, they went further, they vorauvorausdurch
the narrowness of the road forced behind her.

"You see, the flower already," she cried suddenly, there are consistent,
pointing to a fluctuating, overhanging hawthorn branch when the
first buds are developed had. He wanted her to break branches, but they
rose up on his tiptoes and stretched, leaving the parasol fall, both
arms out. As they stood before him, he had to grant them leave. But she
toiled in vain, and he took over her shoulder away also after the
branch. Aneinandergedrängt As they stood, all on her slender, strong
adult body taut, it took him with violence. He surrounded them and
pushed the terrified Aufkreischenden a fierce kiss on the mouth. Had
they also something like this before about halfway Desiring thought,
and in their Chartreuse a romantic mood-term development of this walk
is not reluctant seen, so she felt at this unexpected but touching
suddenly disenchanted. His hot breath, the moist warmth of his broad,
sultry lips infuses her reluctance one. The beer and Cigarrendunst
from his lips aroused her disgust. Shame, anger and dismay, they started
to seconds silent. Wordless ordered her clothes moved. But the anger
on her face, which is abrupt change between red and white discolored,
showed him clearly that he had been too bold. Entering he looked through
a slack joke about the embarrassment to come across. "The leave but
please after , "she said after a brief, awkward pause. "Then I immediately
go to." "But Miss, you will not," he doubted. "Surely," she affirmed.
They have felt compassion for him. He looked shocked even out. "If people
come. Here on the open field," drew them.

"Oh, that nobody has seen," he said, happy, her good mood to see
again. "Are you my evil "? he asked, approaching her. "Yes." She defiantly
a step behind him as they fear a new embrace. The beer haze of his
breath had touched it again. Now Hermann was also annoying. She had not
left enough behaved and that he in turn was probably forgotten?
"If you prefer, Miss Kruse," he said hurt, "so I bring you to the next
train horses. It does'm sorry, we were so happy, and I ask for
your forgiveness. "She was very red. What was it because? That she
had not expected. It would certainly be on the kiss, but it was tragic
but the story does not. Or should he perhaps enough of the lot and
have the opportunity to be their for the rest of the evening to discard?
"Oh, I see the horses train alone," she gave him saucy replied.
"If you prefer, please ". He gave her the way aired and the hat.
She hesitated and drilled the tip of her white top screen in the deep
soft sand. "You are disgusting!" she suddenly appears. They moved
the lower lip under the upper lip, and Thränen stood her in the
eyes. Immediately, he was touched. "But my dear lady, but you make no
sense. Come." He put her arm with a gentle compulsion in his and she
moved with them. Ruffling To note that, with a large behandschuhten
rights Thräne by wiping the left cheek, she followed him. She was
ashamed, and even half the wines struggling with laughter promotes a
funny, bright, gluck tone to light. According to this comic again gave
rise to laughter, and peace was closed. They would now once again by
kissing him, but he walked beside her, her decent. The detour turned
out to be larger than Hermann had estimated him, and there was
complete dark, when from the fields out in the way einbog built in
accordance with the aforementioned dance hall led. The street lights
were burning already, and the garden now becoming visible, the goal
of the hike, shines in the light of its many bulbs. Ottendorf Sener X.
The park was an old establishment. Previously, citizens in the small
people, including the neighboring town of Altona, as a concert garden
is very popular, he had in recent years through a small change and
now mainly enjoyed the popularity of the young dancing funny world.
Even from Hamburg, the young "gentlemen", Com, domestic servants and
apprentices here. The "Ladies audience consisted mostly of seamstresses,
cutters inside, maids and factory workers. Every now and then liked also
unfair elements here are lost, which otherwise in St. Pauli, the cheerful
suburb of Hamburg, a very profitable field for their Thätigkeit
found. Hermann and Mimi kiesbestreuten hurried through the garden.
Numerous lichtdämpfenden under frosted glass domes burning flames
enlightened him, but he does, partly candelabra-like piles of green
notched worn, partly as lanterns to pile on pile of running wire
arches strung together, not for adornment. In a small case with the
same tasteless green paint orchestra wore a pavilion Chapel
popular songs. The sharp rhythms of the Vienna Gigerlmarsches and the
splendor of many of the dark background of bushes and foliage in
uplifting the two lamps offset somewhat tired from the road immediately
comers in a peculiar, nervenprickelnden intoxication. The muffled
sounds of a second orchestra attracted them in the hall. It was full
of it, and they had to stand for a while, until it at a side table
found. The heat also forced them to guard and overnight clothes
in the wardrobe must. Herman and Mimi were both newcomers no longer
on such a dance floor. So they were as blithely between funny dancing
couples. When after the first waltz to the tour of the hall followed,
saw Hermann Behn Lulu on the arm of a young dancer with a very slender
pomadesatter, glattgescheitelter hairdo. He was amazed. "Is this not
to over? " he asked Mimi. You followed his gaze. "Really, Lulu Behn
No, tell one how to here?" "Yes, as we come here?" Hermann laughed.
"But?" said Mimi. You saw Lulu at this moment a long, lean brunette
who stood among the spectators, a resigned look zuwerfen and
armpits twitch slightly, as a broad grin mocking the good-natured
face sensual beautifies the other no. "It will be interesting," said
Hermann. Soon Lulu Mimi had also discovered and surprised her with the
amount withdrawn Brauen zugeworfen a surprised look, which she immediately
a sympathetic smile could follow. Then she went out of the arm off
her friend, with whom she danced the polka had last, and hurried
on to Mimi. "For God's sake, lady, tell you nothing," she asked
anxiously. "My father suggests me dead" " His concern without you,
"comforted Mimi. "One of the other hacks crow's eyes does not."
Stupid person, thought Lulu, but she said sigh of relief: "I am too.
Beautiful souls are found." The heat, however, what "? put them to
cool fächelnd added and removed with a gentle, confidential nod.
Semmel A blonde, überhöflicher Commission or assistant barber asked in
singing, dialect sächselndem Mimi to the honor of a dance, and
Hermann had willy-nilly, just politely granted. As Lulu was left
without a dancer, he dedicated it to this waltz. She was extremely
pleased with it. They had only danced with one another, they needed no
more to fear betrayal.

Hermann, even a good dancer, rarely had such a good dancer found. He had
her this is not easily believed. Mimi also danced splendidly, but
something lively, impatient. This smooth, effortless turning with
weighing and Lulu liked him, as they themselves, too. She saw beneficial
and could be lively and casually entertain.

    Only their hasty, erratic Umhersuchen with eyes
  fell on him oddly. "Find someone, Miss "he
  asked." No.. I? Why? My friend, "she stuttered.
  Hermannstadt a moment forgot about Mimi
  and Lulu Blonden the bread until it when
  connecting to stand before him and he came out about the singing
compliments of Saxony annoyed, more so as Mimi in heiterster mood
on the bland chatter received.

      His jealousy awoke, and he refused to Lulu, who baffled the change
noted.

  Suddenly a whisper went through the
  ranks, and curious turned here and there a
  girls head to the entrance of the
  hall. "The beautiful Wilhelm," it went from
  halblaut mouth to mouth. "Who?" Hermann turned
  to his dancer. Lulu was very pale
  and seemed to have asked his to have.

      Mimì but turned around smiling.

    "Do you not?" she asked the couple. "No, who's
  that?" Hermann asked back. "The beautiful
  Wilhelm, Wilhelm Beuthien our Beuthien to
  know you do. You see, because he is so," said
  Mimi information. They blithely showed his
  hand after the pillar near the entrance
  hall. "Ah," said Hermann. "Certainly,
  this is so beautiful Wilhelm? Well, any of
  its gusto. The women's need to know." "But
  you are not well, Miss?" frightened, he turned
  to Lulu. "Please, no, it's nothing. The
  heat," she stammered, as her
  handkerchief to cool before the face of
  conservative. "Would you excuse me, Mr.
  Heinecke?" She had let go his arm. "Then, my
  girlfriend already," she exclaimed, and
  before Herman could say anything, she had
  to find a way that gebahnt. "Let man, Caesar,
  the giebt itself, "quipped the bread Blonde.
  "Will probably be back." Wilhelm
  Beuthien had increased slightly from his position
  at Lulu Behn immediately noticed and
  even their deceased, as their eyes met.
  The boundless amazement, here to meet,
  soon most of the secret joy, the fulfillment
  of his long cherished desire it to
  be unexpectedly close. Whether they are
  with the Ladenmamsell from the corner came?
  Sonderbar. Or ---- A superior smile flew
  over his pretty face. The many girls
  desirous glances unnoticed leaving, he
  looked, without changing his place, with Lulu's
    eyes. He had found it again soon. In a
  corner of the hall was keen in conversation with
  the girlfriend. In short, he decided on the two
  girls, Lulu had almost unnoticed and called Lene
  Kröger to waltz to. Lulu bit on the lip and took
  a step back. She had become white and shaking.
  It was a chair nearby, and she was
  glad to be able to sit down. Lene Kröger had
  a blushing virgin Beuthiens arm taken in
  vain endeavored to hide how much they are by
  this unexpected invitation felt
  flattered. With zusammengekniffenen lips and
  eyes wutfunkelnden pursued the two Lulu.
  Lene Kröger was earlier for the best
  dancer in these circles, a sister of
  her solo was even a ballet dancer at the
  Central Hall. Lene still danced well. How
  graceful the gaunt, angular person is understood
  to be weighed. Lulu was boiling with
  jealousy and anger. The ignominy! Beuthien
  seemed no end to find them. And like Lene
  laughed. He said in a continued with her.
  At last the music stopped, and the two came back.

With a short, lax, and a bow schlenkernden arm movement threw the long
Beuthien formally girls back to his seat. "The dances, however, was
hochatmend Lene, and fans with the handkerchief cooling. Lulu was
crying the next. Mühsam beat it. "This I find common to you," she
hissed. "Na nu, what can I do that?" Lene asked innocently. Lulu
silent. "Child, do not pütscherig," laughed the good-natured brunette.
"He dared not only ran." The log however, Lulu and growled:
"nonsense." "He's still so take care," claimed Lene. "He asked me
if you test well dance." "And what you said?" it was the wounded rushed
to the floor. "How Etelka of ballet," joked another. "But do you see?
He is looking for you already." The music began again and playing a
Rhinelanders. "My God, what is this? Rhinelanders?" Lulu asked
shocked. "Den I can not." "Oh, what's just wag. If only he can," said
Lene. And because he was already. "My lady."
Mighty winds,
  _That sweep the skirt of some far-spreading wood
  Of ancient growth, make music not unlike
  The dash of Ocean on his winding shore_,
  And lull the spirit while they nil the mind;
  Unnumber'd branches waving in the blast,
  And all their leaves fast fluttering, all at once.
  Nor less composure waits upon the roar
  Of distant floods, or on the softer voice
  Of neighbouring fountain, or of _rills that slip
  Through the cleft rock, and chiming as they fall
  Upon loose pebbles, lose themselves at length
  In matted grass that with a livelier green
  Betrays the secret of their silent course_.
  Nature inanimate employs sweet sounds,
  But animated nature sweeter still,
  To soothe and satisfy the human ear.
  Ten thousand warblers cheer the day, and one
  The livelong night: nor these alone, whose notes
  Nice-finger'd Art must emulate in vain,
  But cawing rooks, and kites that swim sublime
  In still-repeated circles, screaming loud,
  The jay, the pie, and e'en the boding owl
  That hails the rising moon, have charms for me.
  Sounds inharmonious in themselves and harsh,
  Yet heard in scenes where peace for ever reigns,
  And only there, please highly for their sake.

Affection such as the last lines display for the inharmonious as well
as the harmonious, for the uncomely, as well as the comely parts of
nature has been made familiar by Wordsworth, but it was new in the time
of Cowper.  Let us compare a landscape painted by Pope in his Windsor
forest, with the lines just quoted, and we shall see the difference
between the art of Cowper, and that of the Augustan age.

  Here waving groves a checkered scene display,
  And part admit and part exclude the day,
  As some coy nymph her lover's warm address
  Not quite indulges, nor can quite repress.
  There interspersed in lawns and opening glades
  The trees arise that share each other's shades;
  Here in full light the russet plains extend,
  There wrapt in clouds, the bluish hills ascend,
  E'en the wild heath displays her purple dyes,
  And midst the desert fruitful fields arise,
  That crowned with tufted trees and springing corn.
  Like verdant isles the sable waste adorn.

The low Berkshire hills wrapt in clouds on a sunny day; a sable desert
in the neighbourhood of Windsor; fruitful fields arising in it, and
crowned with tufted trees and springing corn--evidently Pope saw all
this, not on an eminence, in the ruffling wind, but in his study with
his back to the window, and the Georgics or a translation of them
before him.

Here again is a little picture of rural life from the _Winter Morning
Walk_.

  The cattle mourn in corners, where the fence
  Screens them, and seem half-petrified to sleep
  In unrecumbent sadness.  There they wait
  Their wonted fodder; not like hungering man,
  Fretful if unsupplied; but silent, meek,
  And patient of the slow-paced swain's delay.
  _He from the stack carves out the accustomed load
  Deep-plunging, and again deep-plunging oft,
  His broad keen knife into the solid mass:
  Smooth as a wall the upright remnant stands,
  With such undeviating and even force
  He severs it away_: no needless care,
  Lest storms should overset the leaning pile
  Deciduous, or its own unbalanced weight.
  Forth goes the woodman, leaving unconcern'd
  The cheerful haunts of man; to wield the axe
  And drive the wedge in yonder forest drear,
  from, morn to eve, his solitary task.
  Shaggy, and lean, and shrewd, with pointed ears
  And tail cropp'd short, half lurcher and half cur,
  His dog attends him.  Close behind his heel
  Now creeps he slow; and now, with many a frisk
  Wide-scampering, snatches up the drifted snow
  With ivory teeth, or ploughs it with his snout;
  Then shakes his powder'd coat, and barks for joy.
  Heedless of all his pranks, the sturdy churl
  Moves right toward the mark; nor stops for aught
  But now and then with pressure of his thumb
  To adjust the fragrant charge of a short tube,
  That fumes beneath his nose: the trailing cloud
  Streams far behind him, scenting all the air.

The minutely faithful description of the man carving the load of hay
out of the stack, and again those of the gambolling dog, and the
woodman smoking his pipe with the stream of smoke trailing behind him,
remind us of the touches of minute fidelity in Homer.  The same may be
said of many other passages.

    The sheepfold here
  Pours out its fleecy tenants o'er the glebe.
  _At first, progressive as a stream they seek
  The middle field: but, scatter'd by degrees,
  Each to his choice, soon whiten all the land_.
  There from the sun-burnt hay-field homeward creeps
  _The loaded wain: while lighten'd of its charge,
  The wain that meets it passes swiftly by_;
  The boorish driver leaning o'er his team
  Vociferous and impatient of delay.

A specimen of more imaginative and distinctly poetical description is
the well-known passage on evening, in writing which Cowper would seem
to have had Collins in his mind.

  Come, Evening, once again, season of peace,
  Return, sweet Evening, and continue long!
  Methinks I see thee in the streaky west,
  With matron-step slow-moving, while the Night
  Treads on thy sweeping train; one hand employed
  In letting fall the curtain of repose
  On bird and beast, the other charged for man
  With sweet oblivion of the cares of day:
  Not sumptuously adorn'd, nor needing aid,
  Like homely-featured Night, of clustering gems!
  A star or two just twinkling on thy brow
  Suffices thee; save that the moon is thine
  No less than hers, not worn indeed on high
  With ostentatious pageantry, but set.
  With modest grandeur in thy purple zone,
  Resplendent less, but of an ampler round.

Beyond this line Cowper does not go, and had no idea of going; he never
thinks of lending a soul to material nature as Wordsworth and Shelley
do.  He is the poetic counterpart of Gainsborough, as the great
descriptive poets of a later and more spiritual day are the
counterparts of Turner.  We have said that Cowper's peasants are
genuine as well as his landscape; he might have been a more exquisite
Crabbe if he had turned his mind that way, instead of writing sermons
about a world which to him was little more than an abstraction,
distorted moreover, and discoloured by his religious asceticism.

  Poor, yet industrious, modest, quiet, neat,
  Such claim compassion in a night like this,
  And have a friend in every feeling heart.
  Warm'd, while it lasts, by labour, all day long
  They brave the season, and yet find at eve,
  Ill clad, and fed but sparely, time to cool.
  The frugal housewife trembles when she lights
  Her scanty stock of brushwood, blazing clear,
  But dying soon, like all terrestrial joys.
  The few small embers left, she nurses well;
  And, while her infant race, with outspread hands
  And crowded knees sit cowering o'er the sparks,
  Retires, content to quake, so they be warm'd.
  The man feels least, as more inured than she
  To winter, and the current in his veins
  More briskly moved by his severer toil;
  Yet he too finds his own distress in theirs,
  The taper soon extinguish'd, which I saw
  Dangled along at the cold finger's end
  Just when the day declined; and the brown loaf
  Lodged on the shelf, half eaten without sauce
  Of savoury cheese, or batter, costlier still:
  Sleep seems their only refuge: for, alas'
  Where penury is felt the thought is chained,
  And sweet colloquial pleasures are but few!
  With all this thrift they thrive not.  All the care
  Ingenious Parsimony takes, but just
  Saves the small inventory, bed and stool,
  Skillet, and old carved chest, from public sale.
  They live, and live without extorted alms
  from grudging hands: but other boast have none
  To soothe their honest pride that scorns to beg,
  Nor comfort else, but in their mutual love.

Here we have the plain, unvarnished record of visitings among the poor
of Olney.  The last two lines are simple truth as well as the rest.

"In some passages, especially in the second book, you will observe me
very satirical."  In the second book of _The Task_, there are some
bitter things about the clergy, and in the passage pourtraying a
fashionable preacher, there is a touch of satiric vigour, or rather of
that power of comic description which was one of the writer's gifts.
But of Cowper as a satirist enough has been said.

"What there is of a religious cast in the volume I have thrown towards
the end of it, for two reasons; first, that I might not revolt the
reader at his entrance, and secondly, that my best impressions might be
made last.  Were I to write as many volumes as Lope de Vega or
Voltaire, not one of them would be without this tincture.  If the world
like it not, so much the worse for them.  I make all the concessions I
can, that I may please them, but I will not please them at the expense
of conscience." The passages of _The Task_ penned by conscience, taken
together, form a lamentably large proportion of the poem.  An ordinary
reader can be carried through them, if at all, only by his interest in
the history of opinion, or by the companionship of the writer, who is
always present, as Walton is in his Angler, as White is in his
Selbourne.  Cowper, however, even at his worst, is a highly cultivated
methodist; if he is sometimes enthusiastic, and possibly superstitious,
he is never coarse or unctuous.  He speaks with contempt of "the twang
of the conventicle."  Even his enthusiasm had by this time been
somewhat tempered.  Just after his conversion he used to preach to
everybody.  He had found out, as he tells us himself, that this was a
mistake, that "the pulpit was for preaching; the garden, the parlour,
and the walk abroad were for friendly and agreeable conversation."  It
may have been his consciousness of a certain change in himself that
deterred him from taking Newton into his confidence when he was engaged
upon _The Task_.  The worst passages are those which betray a fanatical
antipathy to natural science, especially that in the third book
(150--190).  The episode of the judgment of heaven on the young atheist
Misagathus, in the sixth book, is also fanatical and repulsive.

Puritanism had come into violent collision with the temporal power, and
had contracted a character fiercely political and revolutionary.
Methodism fought only against unbelief, vice, and the coldness of the
establishment; it was in no way political, much less revolutionary; by
the recoil from the atheism of the French Revolution its leaders,
including Wesley himself, were drawn rather to the Tory side.  Cowper,
we have said, always remained in principle what he had been born, a
Whig, an unrevolutionary Whig, an "Old Whig" to adopt the phrase made
canonical by Burke.

  'Tis liberty alone that gives the flower
  Of fleeting life its lustre and perfume,
  And we are weeds without it.  All constraint
  Except what wisdom lays on evil men
  Is evil.

The sentiment of these lines, which were familiar and dear to Cobden,
is tempered by judicious professions of loyalty to a king who rules in
accordance with the law.  At one time Cowper was inclined to regard the
government of George III as a repetition of that of Charles I,
absolutist in the State and reactionary in the Church; but the progress
of revolutionary opinions evidently increased his loyalty, as it did
that of many other Whigs, to the good Tory king.  We shall presently
see, however, that the views of the French Revolution, itself expressed
in his letters are wonderfully rational, calm, and free from the
political panic and the apocalyptic hallucination, both of which we
should rather have expected to find in him.  He describes himself to
Newton as having been, since his second attack of madness, "an
extramundane character with reference to this globe, and though not a
native of the moon, not made of the dust of this planet."  The
Evangelical party has remained down to the present day non-political,
and in its own estimation extramundane, taking part in the affairs of
the nation only when some religious object was directly in view.  In
speaking of the family of nations, an Evangelical poet is of course a
preacher of peace and human brotherhood.  He has even in some lines of
_Charity,_ which also were dear to Cobden, remarkably anticipated the
sentiment of modern economists respecting the influence of free trade
in making one nation of mankind.  The passage is defaced by an
atrociously bad simile:--

  Again--the band of commerce was design'd,
  To associate all the branches of mankind,
  And if a boundless plenty be the robe,
  Trade is the golden girdle of the globe.
  Wise to promote whatever end he means,
  God opens fruitful Nature's various scenes,
  Each climate needs what other climes produce,
  And offers something to the general use;
  No land but listens to the common call,
  And in return receives supply from all.
  This genial intercourse and mutual aid
  Cheers what were else an universal shade,
  Calls Nature from her ivy-mantled den,
  And softens human rock-work into men.

Now and then, however, in reading _The Task_, we come across a dash of
warlike patriotism which, amidst the general philanthropy, surprises
and offends the reader's palate, like the taste of garlic in our butter.

An innocent Epicurism, tempered by religious asceticism of a mild
kind--such is the philosophy of _The Task_, and such the ideal embodied
in the portrait of the happy man with which it concludes.  Whatever may
be said of the religious asceticism, the Epicurism required a
corrective to redeem it from selfishness and guard it against
self-deceit.  This solitary was serving humanity in the best way he
could, not by his prayers, as in one rather fanatical passage he
suggests, but by his literary work; he had need also to remember that
humanity was serving him.  The newspaper through which he looks out so
complacently into the great "Babel," has been printed in the great
Babel itself, and brought by the poor postman, with his "spattered
boots, strapped waist, and frozen locks," to the recluse sitting
comfortably by his fireside.  The "fragrant lymph" poured by "the fair"
for their companion in his cosy seclusion, has been brought over the
sea by the trader, who must encounter the moral dangers of a trader's
life, as well as the perils of the stormy wave.  It is delivered at the
door by

    The waggoner who bears
  The pelting brunt of the tempestuous night,
  With half-shut eyes and puckered cheeks and teeth
  Presented bare against the storm;

and whose coarseness and callousness, as he whips his team, are the
consequences of the hard calling in which he ministers to the recluse's
pleasure and refinement.  If town life has its evils, from the city
comes all that makes retirement comfortable and civilized.  Retirement
without the city-would have been bookless and have fed on acorns.

Rousseau is conscious of the necessity of some such institution as
slavery, by way of basis for his beautiful life according to nature.
The celestial purity and felicity of St. Pierre's _Paul and Virginia_
are sustained by the labour of two faithful slaves.  A weak point of
Cowper's philosophy, taken apart from his own saving activity as a
poet, betrays itself in a somewhat similar way.

  Or if the garden with its many cares
  All well repaid demand him, he attends
  The welcome call, conscious how much the hand
  Of lubbard labour, needs his watchful eye,
  Oft loitering lazily if not o'er seen;
  Or misapplying his unskilful strength
  But much performs himself, _no works indeed
  That ask robust tough sinews bred to toil,
  Servile employ_, but such as may amuse
  Not tire, demanding rather skill than force.

We are told in _The Task_ that there is no sin in allowing our own
happiness to be enhanced by contrast with the less happy condition of
others: if we are doing our best to increase the happiness of others,
there is none.  Cowper, as we have said before, was doing this to the
utmost of his limited capacity.

He covered her, and half-tired, half upsurge in kind, she let it
happen, that he kissed. XI. Some days after this "heavenly" Mimis
Sunday evening, Mr. Emil Pohlenz, by the Mueller Company and Lenze,
without sample case, in formal dress, with bright and modern Glacés
Cylinder vorgefahren in a cab and had the hand of Mrs. Caroline
Wittfoth stopped. Among mutual embarrassment, and behind räusper
Fußscharren looked a hideout, had been along the narrow corridor to
the back room komplimentiert good.

The large, altväterische wardrobe, of course this still cramped,
it had on his conscience, something that the myopic Mr. Pohlenz the
zeal of courtesy and grazed the wall with a white sleeve, the "good"
bar reached. This was a welcome occasion where, in course of the
cleaning efforts, the mutual embarrassment to be overcome. On the edge
of the faded yellow-brown rips chair balancing, languishing with
a view over the golden Pincenez out, then had Mr. Pohlenz the widow's
heart laid at the feet, "after careful reflection and with the
firm conviction that they would be happy together. "Caroline in turn
had made no secret of the fact that in its five years of widowhood
is far from the benefits of marriage to appreciate had forgotten,
and was implying that the opportunity of returning to the deserted
port their not unworthy of attention appeared.

  Mr. Pohlenz commercial efficiency, the
  business would necessarily preclude unsuspected
  splendor lead, the capital of six
  thousand marks, which he mitbrächte would not be underestimated,
and what "the rest" were concerned, so they feel immensely flattered
and would be convinced that mutual respect and consideration for
the hoped-luck would vouch.

Mr. Pohlenz noted its respect, its very special respect beyond all
doubt, and "consideration, my God, considerations should we all
take. How else should the world exist." Once you even a quarter of an
hour on the happiness of marriage in general and the advantages of a
connection Wittfoth Pohlenz and in particular more or less
sentimental considerations had employed, but had to ask Mrs. Caroline,
they are not already on this step, content-heavy to push. Eight weeks
of reflection, he may allow it, then they wanted final decision
and, as I said, they knew to appreciate the honor. Mr. Pohlenz not wanted
to push. Eight weeks would be a long time, "when it comes to the
happiness of a life is." Here he underwent Cylinder from all sides so
a detailed visual inspection, as he pondered whether the same time,
this test would survive.

But it was his principle, he said, not without careful consideration to
thun. Head and heart he had always, so to say, as a man and a
woman is alleged, and the man because it would always be "the one who."
This remark, so witty in his eyes may have been, but was still a
little clumsy Free , and the impression he was looking through a short
cough embarrassment to blur. Mrs. Caroline ordered yet, it was just
her, "everything you need to think of themselves", a Gros Perlmutterknöpfe,
the smallest number.

Then we separated, after Mr. Pohlenz some other pattern was employed
without success, a binding handshake. Vertröstete The Freedom have not
yet had the shock of his cab open, and Mrs Caroline behind his
back their rights vigorously to the folds of her scrubs Wollkleides .
In this cold, wet hands should they put her, for ever? In any
case, it would be reflected in the eight weeks yet thoroughly
superior. The two girls who have long been on Mr. Pohlenz speculative
heart so well were aware of how the neighborhood teilnahmsvolle
, had not a moment of doubt cared about the business affairs and the
aunt Prinzipalin travelers to the city by Müller and Lenze in the state
office had to negotiate. Mimi wanted to be "dead" to laugh, when the
Wittfoth to the inquiring eyes of the girl with a not misinterpreted
smile whose presumptions operated. "Mrs. Pohlenz, congratulations,"
she exclaimed, shaking in front of serenity. It was this pertness already
out, since she knew how Wittfoth thought about her admirers. They
found it to be "tasteful" This Knirps, this Pomadenhengst. "If I were
him just should not have," she said. "Na, na!" Therese tease. "Den? not
gold," declared Mimi. Therese seriously doubted not Mimis dislike Pohlenz,
but now she knew enough that between Hermann and Mimi was a more serious
relationship, so far as they wanted to admit. The transport of the two
had after that, for Hermann as "expensive" Sunday lost the previous ease.
It required not the eyes of a jealous lover, to be noted. The aunt was
clairvoyant enough and had not only made suggestions to Therese,
but also her nephew once themselves. Hermann, in the bliss in which
he voluntarily granted Gutenachtkuß returned, his loss of money quickly
verschmerzt was with himself and his Love in mind. Mimi or not.

So he held because of the aunt to not hide behind the mountain.

It was his firm intention to be engaged with Mimi.

Your Jawortes believed it to be sure. From Michaelis erführe his salary
to the scheduled refurbishing of three hundred marks. Then he wished
for the parents of the girl advertise until then but not before Mimi
even make the decision. Mrs. Caroline did not have any reasons against
it, but it was for her aunt duty to warn against Uebereilung. Actually
touched this issue they are not deep, than any other. Their was even
the thought of the sensation which a double engagement would
cause. Aunt and nephew, and Assistant Prinzipalin, perhaps in a day.
That would be something for the neighbors. Yes, since Hermann expressed
the firm intention to marry, they hung their marriage still
eager after thought. Mimi had after that day in Ottensen on Küsserei
annoyed. She was very unhappy with it. How should they behave towards
Hermann now? In itself it was the "silly story" otherwise not
so unpleasant. She thought not without Genugthuung to the impression
they made on Hermann. Hermann was now in the room, in their vicinity,
it was always, as he would have to include them every moment and kiss.
Usually they are looking to cover their backs. But sometimes she was
trembling, as under a spell, if they knew him behind, alone
with him, and how a desire for forbidden fruit rose hot in her.
This was not without charm. But it is also very "called" Therese and
Prinzipalin over. It would be even more likely to come away, if only
the better to preserve impartiality would have understood. But this
was all so embarrassing. Often he was uneasy, like a schoolboy, and
then again by a kindness which they compared to the others had put in a
predicament. The fact that he now belonged to her, just that they only
extend his hand to needed was any doubt about it. Sooner or later
he had to explain. What then? "She was really in a difficult situation.
The feeling that she felt for him, differed in nothing from the
interest that you einflößte every healthy man, the marriage and in
possession of his limbs was graden. Love was not. About the love they
ever had their own ideas. As she had in the previous year for the
brown, schwarzbärtigen post of Secretary in Neustraße geschwärmt.
And now? Recently, she saw him on the arm of another, presumably his
bride. The heart was not broken. And the handsome head waiter at the
"deer" in her father Bergedorf city, and the dunkeläugige,
sinister-looking station inspector, who always appeared so interesting,
and two or three others. Each had their hearts beat faster than Hermann.
Whether it was love, then it was nothing, love, and certainly not
indispensable to the marriages. Of course, times as she wants to be
in quite so neatly in love, as in the books, and how it always Therese
ausmalt. "Thou my delight, you my pain." Therese had it out. Therese
las beautifully before, as they say in the theater, with "schtehn"
and "schpielen," and so with the feeling that sometimes you really
believed that everything they said so, and not just read it. But the
poets and Schreiber exaggerate novel ever. No, Mimi was not a lot of
these high feelings. And they also liked to Hermann is not that
sometimes he could speak so sentimental, so unctuous as a pastor in the
pulpit, which Therese just so "irritating" to found him. But he was
teacher, and always have something Aparts. Habit Thäter much. If only
they would be always together, it would, perhaps not more so. Ms. Heinecke
main teacher. Mimi often considered in thought, how the ausnähme
it seemed not to sound bad. XII. Meanwhile Behn had Lulu and Beuthien
from approaching Ottendorf Sener on the dance floor led to increasing
confidentiality made. Lulu fear, would like their adventure by any
chance betrayed her family, was soon eingeschläfert. After long
thoughts and worries were anxious about not in their nature. And
how much bigger now, she had secrets to keep. Beuthien prepared a
titillating satisfaction youth girlfriend, the retirement Miss,
daughter of the noble house, to be down to draw. But even their person
did not let him cold. Was he not in love, so it was but a welcome
change, something different and better than mine, and Stine. And in the
background stood him well for the idea, who knows how it comes. Recently,
she was always not a bad game. Of course, it was highly unlikely that
the old Behn it ever would. But he thought did not actually connected
to marriage, was not looking. But Lulu was very passionate. With closed
eyes she followed her passion for the former playmate. It was as if
their usual nature for distort the aufgedrungene Überfeinerung wanted
revenge. Lighter than the first rapprochement was the continuation of
transport between the two. Lulu, unlimited in their tuna
and Lassen, mistress of her time, the lovers could meet, when and where
he was certain. Traf it on, and his cab was vacant, so she rose, and
he drove them to walk detours. Extended the journey too long, so that
he is about the time his father accountable and deliver Fuhrlohn had
so she could not safe from their meager allowance calculated sacrifice.
To allow them, because he also needed in cases not using the
money withheld, sometimes more exits, where they are between the
aristocratic seclusion parkumgebener villas, or on lonely country
roads in rural area have felt safe. Lulu's quiet, slow nature came
to her rescue with the task of all suspicion at home to keep down. She
was not easily removed from their daily way to bring. To equip it was
the commandment of doctors, which often suffer from headache, spoiled
girl, in the years of its largest development far too little body
movement made, daily, perhaps several hours walking was recommended.
So because the parents put the gloss of the buoyant eyes, the
ever-faster mobility of an inner unrest troubled daughter as wohlthätige
effect on account of those walks, without knowing how much she,
albeit in the other sense, were right. Schuldbewußt every reason to
avoiding split, Lulu was also in their behavior against the mother
and Paula friendly, courteous, nachgiebiger. Anna, since those
thätlichen rebuke a hidden war against Lulu led had suddenly been
dismissed. "immoral ways of life change," said the ladies of the
neighborhood. "Se is rinfull ' n, "it was in the ladies terminated.
Behnsche The official explanation was, however. "She has my daughter
can not tolerate." Minna, the successor, a minor girl from the countryside
who came to Lulu out of the question. Their authority from the side was
not an attack threaten. The main thing for them was the sister to get
well-minded. Paulas confidentiality with their old dancer did not find
acceptance, to the amusement Beuthiens that the girl had a welcome
means to Lulu in all, make it. "I tell Paula," he threatened, and they
were afraid.

Paula, whose entire costume there was only once again to be able to
dance, had finally taken the courage and unattended on a Sunday evening
like this is stolen without hat and jacket, to prepare for the
Holstein tree under the audience in the ballroom to mingle in
the hope Beuthien there to meet. This was not where she found, but
Bernhard Prüßnitz, with an older brother, an apprentice saddler , was
present. The detection was a hasty greeting followed. "Ah, dancing
times with me," asked Paula. "cost anything?" "I have twenty cents,
here." She put the money to him, and then they pounced among the dancing,
hearts with knocks and hot cheeks. "You can not," she wanted to start
him, for he hopped like a young cock and pushed it against the knee.
But they bethought themselves. If it is allowed, who danced with
her? Better hop, as do not dance. Just wanted it for the second time
with his other, somebody violently as she tugged at the elbow. "Paula,
Deern, dat I Din Vadder sedge." It was Minna, on the search for the
missing of The unerring instinct of the soul gleichgestimmten refugee
immediately suspects had here. By Minna, on Paulas requests and fearful
threat log of what the larger, their superior einschärfte her girls,
there was now not in the day, but for some incomprehensible and
Paula never enlightened way Behn's father learned of the secret of
his amusement youngest, and two huge foot clamps were the early recognition
of its enterprising spirit. Paula, angry at the unknown traitor, accused
among twenty others Lulu shamefulness of it "verklatscht" to have. This,
of Paulas foot clamps gave a foretaste of what their discovery in
the case would wait, stone and bone swore innocence to be pitied, the
sister and found the whole story is only half as bad, "but Dad is ja
nu times so violently . Behn mother wondered how well the children
now vertrugen. "Se was ok yes ümmer Oeller and verstänniger," she said.
XIII. Beuthien Lulu had one afternoon in a neuangelegten still houses
countless street into his cab up.

It was an arranged rendezvous, and Lulu's stock market just as well
was filled, we wanted to stay together a long time. As always, as long
as they drove through lively streets, where an unpleasant encounter
was to be feared, Lulu sat back deep in the rear of the sealed cab,
veiled, and every view of the road avoiding. Continue until they
ventured outside, the roof of the Coupees back to leave. Beuthien had
taken toward Horn. Drüber addition, on a deserted Feldstraße rose
from Lulu and went as they used to thun, with him, hanging on his
arm, next to the leisurely bummelnden Brown ago. The road allowed a
free overview. Seam someone who was still time enough to separate and
unbiased herzugehen side by side, or in the cab zurückzuschlüpfen.

    Beuthien knew the area in
  a remote inn, where one could dare,
  einzukehren. Lulu was ready for
  anything.

It was a beautiful summer day .

  A warm, sunny air was not a nuisance to be on
  the green, promising seeds. Lulu was very
  cheerful. The quiet, calm wohlthuende rocked
  out here all their doubts. Beuthien was too
  tidy. He was soon driving her arm and put his
  confidence to their hips. And she, his coarse
  jokes and temporary tenderness fallen.

A small garden next to that pub, the poetic name of "For lonely spot"
wore contained two very shady arcades, but with its green wooden
bars and tables and benches grüngestrichenen something confidential
, were welcoming. The landlord, an ordinary-looking, mischievous grin
patron brought two glasses of beer there, once rode with his lazy blue
dirty apron on the table and looked bestaubten an entertainment tie on
which you received monosyllabic but so that he soon like this
distance. On the feral round grass square in front of their seats
schnatterte and schnabbelte a lonely duck. A light, white and brown
spotted dog blinked chicken with tired eyes from the dripping, eyes of
flies tormented from his hut across to them. The beer was warm and
stale, and taste them.

The smell of the nearby chicken stall was annoying them. Lulu looked for
another place. Behind the garden attracted a sparse grove at the edge
of a meadow out mostly dense, high mann undergrowth from which only a
few scattered birch trees standing with their young gleaming white
trunks pointed out. halbvermorschtes A board led through a dry
moat in the wood inside. After some hesitation, in deference to her
dress, followed by Lulu aufgeschürztem hem Beuthien in the little
wilderness. How often they were as children in this way outdoors
umhergestreift had sought berries, wreaths of foliage, chains from the
hollow stems of Kuhblume wound, or were with bare feet in the cool,
muddy water in the ditches and puddles gewatet. Both came at the same
time, the memory, and both said it. He smoked its short meerschaum pipe
with the Kaiser-Friedrich-head, and the corrosive smoke went into
her nose and it was uncomfortable.

They pushed in front of him. wanton grabbed it at the shoulders and
pushed them down so fast that they on the uneven ground was the
stumbling. They screamed and tore itself off. He sought to Hascher.
So she jumped at a moment of laughter and Gekreisch to each other
around. "You Wulle times since," he cried, and grabbed her arm
auslangend far. They wrestled with each other. His forces, with whom he
had played so far only, its use, he suddenly lifted up from the
ground and took it like a child in his arms. Zappelnd tried it
again solid foothold. But he forced her. "Wulle you calmly sin? Wulle
you calmly sin!" he repeated a few times. He talked about during this
whole Balgerei just flat. "Let me," she gasped. She had her arms
against his chest gestemmt. But before his hot, consuming eyes stopped
her. Your power will wane, and willingly, heavy breathing, she let herself
down by him to a nearby bear Moosbank. XIV The old Beuthien went
long with the idea in order to withdraw from the business, it is his
son to leave. He had no right to want more. The years made him comfortable.
But it had to comfort him ever missing since his wife was dead, so since
about ten years, during which time an old aunt of the deceased, he led
the economy. Wilhelm was now in the age where he ans thought
marriages. Then he would, the father, between the old Negendank,
which is always dull, and the young daughter, which of course would
require the regiment, annoying days. After ten years, he began anew to
his wife missing. When you get older, is the Verheiratetsein but not
to scold. And because the friends are still sprightly man often, partly
in jest, partly seriously, told me yet again beweiben, he had the idea
made familiar. Hurried him it was not so. He considered this and
that lot, it was proposed, but only the top, and even that is not
quite glaubend that once again something that could be.

  When he was but now after losing his
  best horse, the black ice
    on the fallen brown,
  completely the desire to lose business,
  but he was serious after
    such future dreams.

  Of all the women who came in, liked
  it not as good as Mrs Caroline
    Wittfoth. That would be a lot.
  The small lively, still quite respectable
  widow told him greatly.
    Poetry can be translated into poetry only by taking up the
ideas of the original into the mind of the translator, which is very
difficult when the translator and the original are separated by a gulf
of thought and feeling, and when the gulf is very wide, becomes
impossible.  There is nothing for it in the case of Homer but a prose
translation.  Even in prose to find perfect equivalents for some of the
Homeric phrases is not easy.  Whatever the chronological date of the
Homeric poems may be, their political and psychological date may be
pretty well fixed.  Politically they belong, as the episode of
Thersites shows, to the rise of democracy and to its first collision
with aristocracy, which Homer regards with the feelings of a bard who
sang in aristocratic halls.  Psychologically they belong to the time
when in ideas and language, the moral was just disengaging itself from
the physical.  In the wail of Andromache for instance, _adinon epos_,
which Pope improves into "sadly dear," and Cowper, with better taste at
all events, renders "precious," is really semi-physical, and scarcely
capable of exact translation.  It belongs to an unreproducible past,
like the fierce joy which, in the same wail, bursts from the savage
woman in the midst of her desolation at the thought of the numbers whom
her husband's hands had slain.  Cowper had studied the Homeric poems
thoroughly in his youth, he knew them so well that he was able to
translate them, not very incorrectly with only the help of a Clavis; he
understood their peculiar qualities as well as it was possible for a
reader without the historic sense to do; he had compared Pope's
translation carefully with the original, and had decisively noted the
defects which make it not a version of Homer, but a periwigged epic of
the Augustan age.  In his own translation he avoids Pope's faults, and
he preserves at least the dignity of the original, while his command of
language could never fail him, nor could he ever lack the guidance of
good taste.  But we well know where he will be at his best.  We turn at
once to such passages as the description of Calypso's Isle,

  Alighting on Pieria, down he (Hermes) stooped.
  To Ocean, and the billows lightly skimmed
  In form a sea-mew, such as in the bays
  Tremendous of the barren deep her food
  Seeking, dips oft in brine her ample wing.
  In such disguise o'er many a wave he rode,
  But reaching, now, that isle remote, forsook
  The azure deep, and at the spacious grove
  Where dwelt the amber-tressed nymph arrived
  Found her within.  A fire on all the hearth
  Blazed sprightly, and, afar diffused, the scent
  Of smooth-split cedar and of cypress-wood
  Odorous, burning cheered the happy isle.
  She, busied at the loom and plying fast
  Her golden shuttle, with melodious voice
  Sat chanting there; a grove on either side,
  Alder and poplar, and the redolent branch
  Wide-spread of cypress, skirted dark the cave
  Where many a bird of broadest pinion built
  Secure her nest, the owl, the kite, and daw,
  Long-tongued frequenters of the sandy shores.
  A garden vine luxuriant on all sides
  Mantled the spacious cavern, cluster-hung
  Profuse; four fountains of serenest lymph,
  Their sinuous course pursuing side by side,
  Strayed, all around, and everywhere appeared
  Meadows of softest verdure purpled o'er
  With violets; it was a scene to fill
  A God from heaven with wonder and delight.

There are faults in this and even blunders, notably in the natural
history; and "serenest lymph" is a sad departure from Homeric
simplicity.  Still on the whole the passage in the translation charms,
and its charm is tolerably identical with that of the original.  In
more martial and stirring passages the failure is more signal, and here
especially we feel that if Pope's rhyming couplets are sorry
equivalents for the Homeric hexameter, blank verse is superior to them
only in a negative way.  The real equivalent, if any, is the romance
metre of Scott, parts of whose poems, notably the last canto of
_Marmion_ and some passages in the _Lay of the Last Minstrel_, are
about the most Homeric things in our language.  Cowper brought such
poetic gifts to his work that his failure might have deterred others
from making the same hopeless attempt.  But a failure his work is; the
translation is no more a counterpart of the original, than the Ouse
creeping through its meadows is the counterpart of the Aegean rolling
before a fresh wind and under a bright sun.  Pope delights school-boys;
Cowper delights nobody, though on the rare occasions when he is taken
from the shelf, he commends himself, in a certain measure, to the taste
and judgment of cultivated men.

In his translations of Horace, both those from the Satires and those
from the Odes, Cowper succeeds far better.  Horace requires in his
translator little of the fire which Cowper lacked.  In the Odes he
requires grace, in the Satires urbanity and playfulness, all of which
Cowper had in abundance.  Moreover, Horace is separated from us by no
intellectual gulf.   He belongs to what Dr. Arnold called the modern
period of ancient history.  Nor is Cowper's translation of part of the
eighth book of Virgil's Aeneid bad, in spite of the heaviness of the
blank verse.  Virgil, like Horace, is within his intellectual range.

As though a translation of the whole of the Homeric poems had not been
enough to bury his finer faculty, and prevent him from giving us any
more of the minor poems, the publishers seduced him into undertaking an
edition of Milton, which was to eclipse all its predecessors in
splendour.  Perhaps he may have been partly entrapped by a chivalrous
desire to rescue his idol from the disparagement cast on it by the
tasteless and illiberal Johnson.  The project after weighing on his
mind and spirits for some time was abandoned, leaving as its traces
only translations of Milton's Latin poems, and a few notes on _Paradise
Lost,_ in which there is too much of religion, too little of art.

Lady Hesketh had her eye on the Laureateship, and probably with that
view persuaded her cousin to write loyal verses on the recovery of
George III.  He wrote the verses, but to the hint of the Laureateship
he said, "Heaven guard my brows from the wreath you mention, whatever
wreaths beside may hereafter adorn them.  It would be a leaden
extinguisher clapt on my genius, and I should never more produce a line
worth reading." Besides, was he not already the mortuary poet of All
Saints, Northampton?


Behn went to work with concentrated fists.

Wilhelm did not return.

"Ik lat nich mi Schimper," he threatened. The old Beuthien put his
hand on Behn arm, such as appeasement, but they hurled violently back.
"You bust so 'n very nasty rags, "he cried Wilhelm, who was white."
John, John ", threw the old Beuthien between the two." Hest Woans
You KREG Din Fru? "" Dat is wat anners, "gasped Behn." Ne , John,
dat is een Sak, "said Beuthien quiet. "You married Hest se,
se un Wilhelm was ok to marry." Wilhelm said, he knew quite what would
be, but he could not do his duty thun. "Wat?" Behn said. "Ik can not,"
repeated William. "You can not?" "Ne, ik can not." "Is not god Tu se
nog longer?" Behn mocked bitterly. Wilhelm long hesitated with the
answer. "Ik häw all 's child", he finally showed. XXIVth Wilhelm had
gebeichtet. Anna, the former Behnsche girl who was the mother of his
child. Behn had over these rights to their older Wilhelm abzukaufen.
He found the girl in a cellar at Hökersleuten quartered, in a close,
hushed room. In a large laundry basket was the only fourteen-day-old
child, ugly, small, a premature birth. Anna ashamed before their former
master, was, however, when she heard what it was a bold stance. Lulu,
the haughty, treat her misfortune. They still wore their mistreatment
after. You should be soft, to cede their rights? Never! But finally
succeeded Behn but, with a handsome sum to satisfy. The consideration
for the sick child she liked to have determined, without the most careful
nursing could not flourish. But it died, so it was the thousands
of Mark Behn still prefer, as a self Beuthien. What an asset, a thousand
marks! Behn, she had her cash on the table, counted, ten hundred Mark
notes. Ausgesteuert How could they, in their opinion, all other
Free get as William was. He was glad that everything is so well
arranged. Should he be married, so he was obviously Lulu rather than
Anna. Lulu told by her mother, Beuthien that they will marry. "Vadder
hätt sik vel Möh type," continued the simple woman added. "Dusend
Mark hätt em dat kost 't.

You can not grateful em nog sin. "" For money? " cried Lulu. "Ne, nich
so. You versteihst mi wrong child, the mother calmed her. And then
she said, according to their opinion very carefully, the story of
Anna. Lulu had not responded and was very thoughtful become. So
Anna would have to thank for it if they keep disgrace remained. And
of course the girl knew everything, felt gloating, as they saw their
peers on. But all these thoughts came to her side only. Everything crushed
the certainty that they deceived Beuthien it already with the other had,
when he tore into the accident.

  Who told her that Anna was the only one?

And with this person should have time in their lives connected.
Their shivered. Their tendency to Beuthien was in the agonies of
the last few days down. Now she felt disgust in front of him. All of
his errors, his crudity suddenly rushed into their consciousness. These
uneducated, brutal people they had lost. It came as Tainted before. It
was from her room into the kitchen of the neighboring houses look.
They cook with the thick red arms, with just the busy glaring at the
window sill to the mortar handled, as they often liked to have his
arms. And up there, on the third floor, the little cheeky
looking person, and since the bottom floor in the long red, he has not
perhaps already with all its tenderness considered? It was her, as would
all over her, in her window into it, sneering, familiar: we belong
together, lady. Surely it was now over from their shame. Anna silent
dignity, Anna, who still had their old hatred? What idea of the
Father, by that person to buy freely. Was not that the only right thing
to people? Beuthien but liked the girl to marry. You, Lulu, would prefer
to leave the house, far away, work for themselves, for the child, or
die. It was the first time that the thought of her death came. It was
after him, it is painted the horrors of the family, the remorse
Beuthiens, the sympathy of neighbors. Of course, so long will
you beklatscht, begeifert, stoned, but afterwards, you no longer can
bear, then they cry Heuchelthränen. How disgusting it the people were
. No, not live longer. A leap into the Alster, and everything is good.
The head was it so difficult, and her eyes hurt from crying. They
cooled at Waschtisch eyes and forehead. The flashing of the water they
had always thought the Alster. A jump into the Alster. She had caught a
fish up to see drowned. The image came to her eyes.

They shook themselves horror and breathed like to exempted. Who
forced them then? She was so free. When the mother as she was tired and
miserable, she talked to her, but something in the air to go. You
must move, even the child's sake. Fended from Lulu. Then they should
at least go in the evening, after nightfall. She wanted to accompany
them, said the mother. Yes, in the evening, not now. But alone, they
would most like to own, Lulu nodded. "Is quite Deern min, dat
di Deiters god," said the mother. XXV. Nowhere was the "nice story with
Behn" avid discussed than in Wittfothschen Keller. It was here "to the
next." Caroline was totally on the views of morality. They condemned
and censured Lulu Wilhelm, just as it has for a decent woman behooves,
and would certainly not good at both hair down, if not the prospect
of Behn used to be their moral indignation would have eased somewhat.
She had always Making of Lulu on the Armpit prestigious feel. Now they
moved towards even those in the rank of a mother to. Beuthien woman and
senior woman Beuthien junior would read it now.

My daughter Lulu. Wittfoth The "laughed the heart" with this idea. Perhaps
they even called Lulu Mama. "It is a terribly reckless thing to Lulu,"
she said to Therese. "And William is just. But now it is man 's
lucky that everything runs so well." Therese took little part in this
affair. Their increasingly dwindling forces had to be sparing.

  Your thoughts entirely spent elsewhere
    than in this small world things.

For some days she knew that she would die. She had the dream in the
coffin is seen and repeatedly looked at the ceiling mice. This meant the
near-death. Therese would not otherwise apply for superstitious.
Place cards, and other Indian Discuss nonsense laughed and mocked
her. But everything connected with death, it had always been reverently
Schauder abgenötigt. So far extended their education not. That the
death of distant people is often announced by dropping images, Still
standing watches, mysterious call, was it by more than one incident
for evidence. The aunt, who told her dream, had only a
very shocked face and then, according laughed and eagerly the "nonsense"
out of search. As if Aunt Caroline does not just stiff and firmly
believed like omen.

  Hermann had to Scheubeck Therese, of which to speak.

  But again, talk as they made insinuations.

"Nonsense," he said, much like the aunt. Then he took her hand, stroked
her gently and said, states: "You will yet again fixed and healthy,
Resi." When she shook her head in disbelief, he repeatedly said
"nonsense, nonsense," stood up and looked out the window long. That
told her enough. But they remained calm and serene. It would have a
few weeks ago not even believed that the death they so quiet expect.
No Zagen, no Graun. Only on the last evening, when Hermann fortging
and only two days to be able to come back said it was at once became
so anxious, so for Aufschrein angst. It was her, as she would never
see again, as it would use force to hold back. Mrs. Caroline, who is
also from the doctor at Hermanns desire, not all hope had been believed,
Therese, the "crisis" is over. She said much of this crisis without
a clear idea of it.

Maybe it would be the more serious the illness came to
consciousness, if not their personal matters they do so much had
taken. The business obligations were almost alone thatsächlich on their
shoulders, as Miss Frieda continued useless showed. This was the idea
of marriage. Beuthien had pushed to early marriage, and we had all sorts
of preparations. Now Therese disease and pushed the "tiresome" story
with William and Lulu everything again. Behnsche The story interested
them immensely. The girls who came in their shop, spoke of it and sought
more information. It was indeed as close as relatives of the sinner
in the middle of the action, and ever since she was never happier
than when they are somewhere with this belonged. "As the mother of
the future turned into disaster, saved them all Ausfragern course
towards the necessary restraint, and helped by its mysterious nature
even more, a thick veil adventurous spicy rumors of this incident
to weave. As she was shocked as a mother Behn early morning, at six
clock, with the fearful question to her appearance whether she had not
seen Lulu. "Se is utgahn register evening and is nich Wedde an't Hus
came." "My goodness, Mrs. Behn," cried the Wittfoth "She has nothing
happened?" The vegetable woman from next door came. "Se Hebben
all Hürter? Behne ehr Frankfurt Lulu is." A maid from the Gärtnerstraße
wanted "just one moment auf'n times to see". "Nu is se ja woll utrückt,"
she said. "Wat'n Upstand." Even the old Beuthien was very distraught.
"Line, line, wat'n pieces - wat'n piece." In the back room Therese
ringing, but nobody heard them. Fräulein Frieda stood with open mouth
and above excitation glowing cheeks always beside the Wittfoth. "If they
only angethan has nothing," she said. "Oh, what they probably
should," Ms Caroline drove them on. "Have you ever lined the apron? You
know, they should be but until a clock to be ready." That shook them
vigorously from small burdock itself. Beuthien lunch came again.
"Se se hebbt". finster he said. "Dod?" asked the Wittfoth. Beuthien
there with your thumb on the right shoulder across the direction: "In'n
channel." "Lord of my life!" cried the terrified woman. "Then I must
put myself first. That's me in the legs properly driven." Pervasive A
loud bell sounded from behind her. "My God, Therese. The eternal ring.
But it is also even doll. What they probably nu has once again.
"Thus they have adhered to the corridor, but in Vorübereilen put
his head through the door of the study:" Are you ready, Frieda? No? Well
keep it on and it's not too wide, you hear? "XXVI. The old Behn
Comptoirzimmer sat in front of his desk, elbows aufgestützt, the face
with his hands to cover. Already some time so he sat there. It was a
humid air in the small space. The sun was shining full into the window,
and broke a lot of radiation in the crystal-colored surfaces of the drum
and the ink Briefbeschwerers. The Gesumme a fly, as in the blind rage
repeatedly against the window panes flew, was the only noise in
the oppressive silence.

Outside, in the corridor, steps were taken according , muted voices,
a sound as if a heavy object transported. Now something has been
set down hard. Then it was like a slight scratches and Schurr. After a
short break the back steps, the whispering speaking, the blades of
Korridorthür, and again the dull silence. Behn sat still in their original
position, like sleeping. As the door was quietly opened and the
voice of halblaute Mrs. Behn cried after him. With almost whistling
sound rang a deep breath from the chest of the man, but he moved
to not. They came to him and laid him softly on the arm's shoulder.
"John!" Then he dropped his arms, fell hard on the forehead crossed
fists, and the big strong man sobbed like a child. "John, wat helpt
dat?

" she said quietly. He stood up, without them to be, as he is ashamed
of his Thränen. He reached out for the broad, tintenbefleckten ruler
and put it at another place, ordered all sorts of mechanically on the
desk, the ink wiper, the sand rifle, touched on be around as he search
for something in his breast pocket, and followed finally breathe deeply
of the patient woman.

  "Ne, John
     here,"
     she conducted her husband, the injustice in the room wanted to
happen.

Paula, obtained from the school had kept at home , erhaschte, as the
parents entered the best office, with some glimpse of the coffin in
which one Lulu has just bedded. You stooped to the keyhole down afterwards,
but saw nothing but the broad back of his father.

  Their thoughts were in great excitation.

    Lulu tot it seemed inconceivable.

It was the first time that the death occurred so close to Paula. The
pain of the parents also had a child earlier Thränen pressing. His
eyes were still red from crying and hot, dry, heat in stabbing the
eyelids. Now, after the first outbreak of feeling, came the curiosity
to her right. Paula would even like the sister in the coffin, but
the mother would not suffer. If the father is but just wanted to stir,
she thought, lurking at the keyhole. As you only for so long in
one spot could stand. Whether wreaths probably many would come? You
always saw the whole idea of a funeral ceremony in front of him. In
between came the thought of her birthday, which was on next Sunday.
Whether it would probably celebrate? You had in the last week and Clara
Wiencke Emmi Hopf invited. Clara would give her a paper, which they
already knew. How ugly, now if nothing out of the birthday would
be. Suddenly it went from keyhole back. The door was hastily set off,
and the father, pale, trembling, came quickly. "Waterfall, agile,
Water," he groans. Minna crashed out of the kitchen and met with
Paula ungentle together. But the old Behn was already in the kitchen,
right before the girls realized what he wanted. The forehead against
the wall supported, he fought with a suffocating choking, short
breaks in the seizure of the back of your hand with the cold sweat
from forehead and cheeks wiping.

So it was the postman, in the general excitement unnoticed by the
careless closed door in the apartment was reached. Behn stretched
without aufzusehen, the left arm after the letter. "Mi is not god,"
he said, as apologetically. "woll air power, Mr. Behn," said the postman.
"So gewitterig today." Mrs. Behn was added and her husband took the
letter from. "Di Is beter, John?" She held the envelope against the
day to explore its contents. "From Schulze," she said. "Is woll Reknung
för en dat Klaveerstimmen." The letter carrier, even without
knowledge of the accident, which affected the family had only learned
of them on the street by a girl of a neighboring house. He had also to
wife Caroline Wittfoth a letter. He entered the open shop, and since
nobody was present, he cried aloud. "postman!" He still had to call a
second time before Miss Frieda appeared frightened, with long, cautious
steps, balancing on the toes. Both hands outstretched to the amount of
ears uplifting, they meant to him of appeasing Geberde to be quiet.
"Well, what is going on here?" he asked astonished. "Our lady is
dead" "Miss Therese? What did you do wrong?" "tuberculosis,"
she whispered, as if it were a mysterious crime. regretful shake
of the head with it removed. A worker's wife came and asked Under a
potential rock. Fräulein Frieda could not reflect, in which the drawer
was required to find, and brought the Wittfoth. Mrs. Caroline
appeared tear, with reddened nose, the handkerchief in his
hand. "My niece has died this morning," she said to the
inquiring eye of the buyer. "Since I've even had no idea about. And as
I've maintained it, as my child. But contrary to God's will is not so
woll. And his hands full thun. I do not even remember where I the
head is. "" Yes, "said the woman, who had listened patiently everything.
"With so'n disease is dat ne egen Sak. Na, ik Wedde times came round."
Dohn Se dat "asked Caroline. "Ik sögg Se Unnerrock the rut." XXVII.
Two days later, two hearses at the corner of the average, a first class,
the other third.

On the latter was already a simple coffin, whose lid four wreaths were
mounted side by side. The morning sun spread its golden lights it.
A hand sorgliche had sprinkled fresh wreaths, and the drops were
trembling like a flash of diamonds on the leaves out of roses, the small
spherical Immortellenblüten and the dark green of the wreath thread.
Two cabs form the whole entourage. The first ascended Wittfoth woman
in deep mourning with tear eyes, the handkerchief of finest
Kammertuch, the pride of her underwear treasure in his hand. After all
trivial, what with her always in the first row are used to
overcome was the fault of their home care, the effect of the
transaction, which Choosing a mourning dresses, crepe or whether
Cachemire, and similar thoughts, was also the true, sincere pain for her
to break through. She looked very miserable and Abgespannt, as they
slowly, with downcast eyes beaten the few steps to the car put back
stroke, the Miss Frieda opened.

This is not in possession of a black dress, wore Halbtrauer their
winter Sunday light gray dress made of heavy wool, and had only a black
moiré apron is created, the wife Caroline for this purpose in the
last minute took apron box. " The people's sake. "The price tag was
attached in the hurry forgot to remove." make sure you know quite auf'n
shop, Miss, "she whispered from the cab out to the girl. "And when
the woman with the petticoat comes, you know it." The Wittfoth
to the old Beuthien took place in a black frock coat and high, Duff,
already somewhat reddish shimmering Cylinder. In the second cab
drove Hermann alone. He had so willed, that's not only one car
followed. At the same time, he also aunt of a stone from the heart,
which are reluctant to dritt drove in a cab would be. "That should
never thun at 'its funeral," she said . "It brings bad luck.
Usually dies because one of the three. Always get an even number,
which is better." Hermann was in these sad hours longer than usual
that the weaknesses of his aunt to spare. Was it the message by Therese
death did not come unexpectedly, so she had shaken him deeply.

He had all his free time aunt made available and all the preparations and
arrangements for the funeral removed. Took him deep on the morning of
the day mourning the accidental discovery that he is the heart of the
deceased might have been closer than they had to remember him. Sitting
at the window, to Therese usual place, he saw in her Nähkörbchen
his picture is a photograph in business card format, a gift which
he her roughly a year ago had made.

"'s I found under her pillow," said the aunt. "And something else for
you," she continued in an extract kramend. "Here, You should have a
birthday."

  It was the handiwork commenced, the monogram veilchenumkränzte
Hermanns.

Stirred he hid both picture and craftsmanship, at once in his chest
pocket, as his time was not allowed after the funeral is still
in the apartment Aunt return. As the small funeral set in motion, it
was straight out of the Behnschen home reichgeschmückten the coffin
out. A penetrating smell of Tubarosen and Conifers überströmte the street
whose pavement by a dense amount of viewers were occupied. In
a long series of thought the consequence of almost half the cars
street. Only a few, fleeting glances followed the simple funeral
Therese.

The curiosity was focused on the noble burial. A dull part went in
the audience felt. Man halblaut discussing the sad case. Illiterates
were taught important Miene and remained equally stand. A mysterious
spell came from Lulu's high, blumenüberhäuftem coffin, the magic of the
dreadful, the allure of the spill umstrickte the souls.

The wind raised the dust on the crowd, over the coffin, over The wreaths,
drove with the black pall bauschte his game and the profound sadness
hanging coats of the horses how to sail. The twelve-makers, in their
traditional Pompgewändern, with white ruff, Federbarett and
Galanteriedegen, ordered it. The coachman, in addition to the horses,
seized the reins, and Marshal of mourning, the long herabwallenden pile
on the left arm bearing, joined at the head of the procession, which
slowly set in motion. But hardly had the hearse left the average, than
a sudden disruption forced to hold back. Between the first, smaller,
and a funeral laden Bierwagen Cabriolet had a slight drop in a
fast trot sought. maladroitly The passing of the Lord, or an
unfortunate coincidence, had the light vehicle with a heavy truck
collide.

  The slight-built luxury horse was from the violent impact had been
torn to the ground, the car crossing the road, and the desperate
drivers stood in the greatest embarrassment to the toppled fox,
wild rash, all efforts to assemble it, frustrated.

  Besides stood, pale, trembling before Schreck, a young lady, who
in fear of the bold leap from their dangerous car seat dared.

Hermann had his coupe out for a moment to recognize Mimi supposedly.
Quickly, he moved into the protective hideout deep fund. No reminder
today it would be embarrassing than this. They brought a painful turmoil
in its grave, melancholic mood. The eyes closing, he dreamed of colliding
slowly over the pavement holpernden cab of that spring evening course
between the hawthorn hedges, with the first waltz and the first kiss.
Mißklang With shrill voiced in a side street a barrel recently, a
popular operetta waltzes. schrak Hermann on from his brooding. How common
were these sounds. A street boy sang in the highest treble to the
tunes of the lyre box tasteless verses of the underlying couplets.
Until the next street corner Hermann heard the singing of the boy.
Where had he but the melody, those words have ever heard? Was it
back in Ottendorf Sener Park? He could not be judged.
Having finished the tour I intended, I made a short turn,
and, with one flourish of my whip, descended; my horses prancing and
curvetting with an infinite share of spirit, but without the least
danger, either to me or my vehicle.  The time, we may suppose, is at
hand, and seems to be prognosticated by my dream, when these airy
excursions will be universal, when judges will fly the circuit, and
bishops their visitations; and when the tour of Europe will be
performed with much greater speed, and with equal advantage, by all who
travel merely for the sake of having it to say, that they have made it.

"I beg you will accept for yourself and yours our unfeigned love, and
remember me affectionately to Mr. Bacon, when you see him.

  "Yours, my dear friend,
    WM. COWPER."


  TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON.

  "_March 29th_, 1784.

"MY DEAR FRIEND,--It being his Majesty's pleasure, that I should yet
have another opportunity to write before he dissolves the Parliament, I
avail myself of it with all possible alacrity.  I thank you for your
last, which was not the less welcome for coming, like an extraordinary
gazette, at a time when it was not expected.

"As when the sea is uncommonly agitated, the water finds its way into
creeks and holes of rocks, which in its calmer state it never reaches,
in like manner the effect of these turbulent times is felt even at
Orchard Side, where in general we live as undisturbed by the political
element as shrimps or cockles that have been accidentally deposited in
some hollow beyond the water-mark, by the usual dashing of the waves.
We were sitting yesterday after dinner, the two ladies and myself, very
composedly, and without the least apprehension of any such intrusion in
our snug parlour, one lady knitting, the other netting, and the
gentleman winding worsted, when to our unspeakable surprise a mob
appeared before the window; a smart rap was heard at the door, the boys
bellowed, and the maid announced Mr. Grenville.  Puss was unfortunately
let out of her box, so that the candidate, with all his good friends at
his heels, was refused admittance at the grand entry, and referred to
the back door, as the only possible way of approach.

"Candidates are creatures not very susceptible of affronts, and would
rather, I suppose, climb in at the window, than be absolutely excluded.
In a minute, the yard, the kitchen, and the parlour, were filled.  Mr.
Grenville, advancing toward me, shook me by the hand with a degree of
cordiality that was extremely seducing.   As soon as he, and as many
more as could find chairs, were seated, he began to open the intent of
his visit.  I told him I had no vote, for which he readily gave me
credit.  I assured him I had no influence, which he was not equally
inclined to believe, and the less, no doubt, because Mr. Ashburner, the
draper, addressing himself to me at this moment, informed me that I had
a great deal.  Supposing that I could not be possessed of such a
treasure without knowing it, I ventured to confirm my first assertion,
by saying, that if I had any I was utterly at a loss to imagine where
it could be, or wherein it consisted.  Thus ended the conference.  Mr.
Grenville squeezed me by the hand again, kissed the ladies, and
withdrew.  He kissed likewise the maid in the kitchen, and seemed upon
the whole a most loving, kissing, kind-hearted gentleman.  He is very
young, genteel, and handsome.  He has a pair of very good eyes in his
head, which not being sufficient as it should seem for the many nice
and difficult purposes of a senator, he has a third also, which he
suspended from his buttonhole.  The boys halloo'd, the dogs barked,
puss scampered, the hero, with his long train of obsequious followers,
withdrew.  We made ourselves very merry with the adventure, and in a
short time settled into our former tranquillity, never probably to be
thus interrupted more.  I thought myself, however, happy in being able
to affirm truly that I had not that influence for which he sued; and
which, had I been possessed of it, with my present views of the dispute
between the Crown and the Commons, I must have refused him, for he is
on the side of the former.  It is comfortable to be of no consequence
in a world where one cannot exercise any without disobliging somebody.
The town, however, seems to be much at his service, and if he be
equally successful throughout the country, he will undoubtedly gain his
election.  Mr. Ashburner, perhaps, was a little mortified, because it
was evident that I owed the honour of this visit to his
misrepresentation of my importance.  But had he thought proper to
assure Mr. Grenville that I had three heads, I should not, I suppose,
have been bound to produce them.

"Mr. Scott, who you say was so much admired in your pulpit, would be
equally admired in his own, at least by all capable judges, were he not
so apt to be angry with his congregation.  This hurt him, and had he
the understanding and eloquence of Paul himself, would still hurt him.
He seldom, hardly ever indeed, preaches a gentler well-tempered sermon,
but I hear it highly commended; but warmth of temper, indulged to a
degree that may he called scolding, defeats the end of preaching.  It
is a misapplication of his powers, which it also cripples, and tears
away his hearers.  But he is a good man, and may perhaps outgrow it.

"Many thanks for the worsted, which is excellent.  We are as well as a
spring hardly less severe than the severest winter will give us leave
to be.  With our united love, we conclude ourselves yours and Mrs.
Newton's affectionate and faithful,

  "W. C.
   M. U."


In 1789 the French Revolution advancing with thunder-tread makes even
the hermit of Weston look up for a moment from his translation of
Homer, though he little dreamed that he with his gentle philanthropy
and sentimentalism had anything to do with the great overturn of the
social and political systems of the past.  From time to time some crash
of especial magnitude awakens a faint echo in the letters.


  TO LADY HESKETH.

  "_July 7th_, 1790.

"Instead of beginning with the saffron-vested mourning to which Homer
invites me, on a morning that has no saffron vest to boast, I shall
begin with you.  It is irksome to us both to wait so long as we must
for you, but we are willing to hope that by a longer stay you will make
us amends for all this tedious procrastination.

"Mrs. Unwin has made known her whole case to Mr. Gregson, whose opinion
of it has been very consolatory to me; he says indeed it is a case
perfectly out of the reach of all physical aid, but at the same time
not at all dangerous.  Constant pain is a sad grievance, whatever part
is affected, and she is hardly ever free from an aching head, as well
as an uneasy side, but patience is an anodyne of God's own preparation,
and of that He gives her largely.

"The French who, like all lively folks, are extreme in everything, are
such in their zeal for freedom; and if it were possible to make so
noble a cause ridiculous, their manner of promoting it could not fail
to do so.  Princes and peers reduced to plain gentlemanship, and
gentles reduced to a level with their own lackeys, are excesses of
which they will repent hereafter.  Differences of rank and
subordination are, I believe, of God's appointment, and consequently
essential to the well-being of society; but what we mean by fanaticism
in religion is exactly that which animates their politics; and unless
time should sober them, they will, after all, be an unhappy people.
Perhaps it deserves not much to be wondered at, that at their first
escape from tyrannic shackles they should act extravagantly, and treat
their kings as they have sometimes treated their idol.  What is he
now thun? Pohlenz efforts they found a fertile soil. Quick shot the
new relationship under the blessing of fertilizing the forty thousand
marks in the straws, the modest green of the old relationship with
Hermann and überwuchernd asphyxiant. Mimi was the second race, the
Sunday, an invitation accepted by Pohlenz.

She had on the first day Hermann accompanied some friends to see
passing, but had Therese and their aunt is not on him, which is as
intentionally abwandte attention. Whether it well on Sunday at the
racecourse would take? You almost wished it. It would be spicy. In any
case, it would at the side of her new admirer abdicated to impress.
Pohlenz wanted a convertible and drive themselves. Hermann would have
can not afford, would have scarcely understood to drive. The whole day
was nothing more in mind than this possible encounter between her
and Hermann. As a theatrical scene painted it off. She was never at the
races and have been burned before impatience. Carefully observing the
Insassinnen the vorüberrollenden and Equipage Mietsfuhrwerke and thought
in their place, elegantly careless back, dressed in chic, all eyes turned
to the sinking. Pohlenz had it presented a new costume in which they
no doubt would have fallen. She had recently raised after this "little
attention" was adopted by him. He had asked to dress as it was in
Buxtehude, and was extremely flattered Eitle promised. He had her in
this very suit dropped. He had something exotic in it. Rich Brazilians
and Indian Nabobs, heroes of their previously read novels, lived
in her memory. The deep Pohlenz brunette with a big Panama hat, white
Röckchen a fine Cigarette smoking, the original slim Traber Guidance,
alongside him in the new costume, repeatedly turned her thoughts back
to this picture. As Hermann went over in an ordinary cab , slightly
crooked, vornübergeneigt, as always, if he is comfortable He looked
very pale, like nights. The three men beside him were far from
elegant appearances. The one caught even their tasteless hilarity
by a cherry-red tie.

As usual, the whole wagon looked. She would not include among these
elegant Equipage mix. Hermann had Mimi from afar on her stool to
see, in addition to its small aunt who had climbed a chair to better
see them. Just as he turned, so as not to meet her glance. Their
rejection had hurt him very done. He really loved her and she could
not forget. Even the uneducated style of their letter, the little
grammatical blunders, offended him. It was not unknown to him so
that their education was not complete, its character is not without
weaknesses. But what woman does not have its weaknesses. The woman
requires something other than character and grammar. A perfect woman
would have him not irritated. He is so beautiful dreams, Mimi gradually
to educate, to ennoble the slumbering good plants to awaken. The dream
was made. Hermann avoided the aunt's house since Mimis letter. He
sought distraction and persuaded his friends, collectively, the race
to visit.

He hoped there the lover or the passing to be seen. He painted a meeting
of: radiator, polite greeting from his side, with a faint hint of pain.
Color of the resignation. Male taken. You blushing, then deceased, with
the famous saucy throw her pretty head the matter quickly and
contemptuous abthuend.

  For a moment he had believed that the game has not lost to give to.

  Mimi would probably still reflect that he had to leave her time.

It would even have been too little prepared. Perhaps they are already
regretting their rejection of his application, the only noble selfless
motives underlying beaten. Life is so terribly earnest, she had
written. It was not bad, they had a good heart. Perhaps they also felt
their own whims and believed not for him to fit. And he saw them
in thought pale, sad, crying in her bar sit close to him ever so
little of their dignity had been reported.

But such illusions he could no longer devote since it one of his
friends to honor assured Mimi with Mr. Pohlenz Arm in arm, in the
zoo to have. So yet! In fact, he even believed himself not to his
euphemisms. Why lie? She was a coquette, its not worth it. He had
forgotten them. When he was but on the second race on the track
again took the side of the despised rival, inflamed anew of violent pain
in him. Mimi was also made delightful.
Where therefore there is no wanton intention, nor a
wish to deceive, I can discover no immorality.  But in England, I am
afraid, our painted ladies are not clearly entitled to the same
apology.  They even imitate nature with such exactness that the whole
public is sometimes divided into parties, who litigate with great
warmth the question whether painted or not?  This was remarkably the
case with a Miss E----, whom I well remember.  Her roses and lilies
were never discovered to be spurious, till she attained an age that
made the supposition of their being natural impossible.  This anxiety
to be not merely red and white, which is all they aim at in France, but
to be thought very beautiful, and much more beautiful than Nature has
made them, is a symptom not very favourable to the idea we would wish
to entertain of the chastity, purity, and modesty of our countrywomen.
That they are guilty of a design to deceive is certain.  Otherwise why
so much art? and if to deceive, wherefore and with what purpose?
Certainly either to gratify vanity of the silliest kind, or, which is
still more criminal, to decoy and inveigle, and carry on more
successfully the business of temptation.  Here, therefore, my opinion
splits itself into two opposite sides upon the same question.  Eiapopei!
That no award, no magic curse the HOLD mistress harmful. Now good night
with Eiapopei! (Second Elfe.) Black beetle with us umgebt non sum!
Get away! Spider, which weaves its artificially, wove at another place!
(Chorus). Nightingale, with melody Sing in our Eiapopei!
Eiapopeia! Eiapopei! That no award, no magic curse the HOLD mistress
harmful. Now good night with Eiapopei! (Erste Elfe). Everything
good now, and away! Think One guard there! (From elves."This brings me to my second class of ideas upon this topic, and here I
feel that I should be fearfully puzzled, were I called upon to
recommend the practice on the score of convenience.  If a husband chose
that his wife should paint, perhaps it might be her duty, as well as
her interest, to comply.  But I think he would not much consult his
own, for reasons that will follow.  In the first place, she would
admire herself the more; and in the next, if she managed the matter
well, she might he more admired by others; an acquisition that might
bring her virtue under trials, to which otherwise it might never have
been exposed.  In no other case, however, can I imagine the practice in
this country to be either expedient or convenient.  As a general one it
certainly is not expedient, because in general English women have no
occasion for it.  The mother shook them violently by the arm. "Wulle
you are talking about. Heet en Keerl Where?" Where was Lulu's spite?
As a child she had to leave to chide? It was as if the weight transfer,
which would otherwise be weak on the woman's daughter suddenly had gained,
particularly long aufspeicherten resentment of the mother opened
the latch. They trembled with rage. "Heet en Keerl Where?" cried she
always violent.

"Ik wants weten dat." And as Lulu defied, "that I say not," ohrfeigte
them. "This is common," went on Lulu. "What is common?" The mother
brought her almost to the waist. "What is common? You, you!" A deep
testator, a breath after röchelndes rings, an unreliable Umhertasten
with the hands, and fell hard on the Lulu standing beside her chair
to the ground. Frightened jumped to the mother. "Lulu! Child!" They
tore the door and cried after Minna and water. The girl brought the
Desired astonished. "Is sick lady?" she asked, and helped the mother,
the powerless on the small Lederdivan beds. "If you pray is meager,"
was the reply.

"Lat is Füer dat nich utgahn, do you?" And Minna looked after the
fire, while Mrs. Behn of recovering Lulu gently on the forehead and
crown stressed. "Deern, Deern," she said reproachful, but with soft,
warm Herzenston. "Wat'n Sak, Sak wat'n." From this hour, were mother
and daughter reconciled, were again found. XXII. Verlobungsfeierlichkeit
The very Therese had attacked. After a short, restless sleep, she was
with a heavy cough and slight chills awakens. Mrs. Caroline was
very worried.

Therese wanted to be up, because the aunt the other day alone
in the business would be, because the new first lady should be
sent to The next day. But the aunt suffered not that Therese left the
bed. At least she wanted to advance with the doctor. A child from the
neighborhood over like messengers for twenty penny wage, to get
this.

  He came, and noted
     a pneumonia.
       Therese must under all circumstances to stay in bed.

Why not have been sent earlier. Even the sick should not fall into the
dark damp back room to stay. He took the other rooms look and ordered
the reburial in the best rooms. Untröstlich wife Caroline was
tormented and Therese with a loud moaning. The good-natured woman
spared no sacrifice, but it was their nature, all things to zoom
in and about small inconveniences for days to whine.

"What do I start.

How do we implement the furniture?

I can not. I can not bear heavy cabinet." Therese reassured them that it
would help, no one to mute it, the heavy hand to the other cabinet
Rooms to bear. "And when Frieda lets us sit now," wailed aunt continued.
"What should I start. All hands full thun, and no help." "Why should
not Miss Frieda come, dear aunt?" comforted the sick. "You make you way
too much unnecessary worry."
And now the life from which his had for so many years been fed, itself
began to fail.  Mrs. Unwin was stricken with paralysis; the stroke was
slight, but of its nature there was no doubt.  Her days of bodily life
were numbered; of mental life there remained to her a still shorter
span.  Her excellent son, William Unwin, had died of a fever soon after
the removal of the pair to Weston.  He had been engaged in the work of
his profession as a clergyman, and we do not hear of his being often at
Olney.  But he was in constant correspondence with Cowper, in whose
heart as well as in that of Mrs. Unwin his death must have left a great
void, and his support was withdrawn just at the moment when it was
about to become most necessary.

Happily just at this juncture a new and a good friend appeared.  Schroeder
is it called? "" Kröger, "she corrected. The number was up to them, and
they danced. Beuthien waltz danced by the pace of the Rhine country,
and they left to breathe his leadership. Like 'ne spring," he
coaxed her during of dance. "Do you?" He lifted it instead of a response
with strong momentum from the ground, so they released a few seconds
in his arms floated. The second time, it seemed to him to make fun,
she cried quietly. "Not not, "she gasped.Both of
them, as it happened, were engaged on Milton, and an attempt had been
made to set them by the ears; but Hayley took advantage of it to
introduce himself to Cowper with an effusion of the warmest esteem.  He
was at Weston when Mrs. Unwin was attacked with paralysis, and
displayed his resource by trying to cure her with an electric-machine.
At Eartham, on the coast of Sussex, he had, by an expenditure beyond
his means, made for himself a little paradise, where it was his delight
to gather a distinguished circle.  To this place he gave the pair a
pressing invitation, which was accepted in the vain hope that a change
might do Mrs. Unwin good.

From Weston to Eartham was a three days' journey, an enterprise not
undertaken without much trepidation and earnest prayer.  It was safely
accomplished, however, the enthusiastic Mr. Rose walking to meet his
poet and philosopher on the way.  Hayley had tried to get Thurlow to
meet Cowper.  A sojourn in a country house with the tremendous Thurlow,
the only talker for whom Johnson condescended to prepare himself, would
have been rather an overpowering pleasure; and perhaps, after all, it
was as well that Hayley could only get Cowper's disciple, Hurdis,
afterwards professor of poetry at Oxford, and Charlotte Smith.

looking for you a bed; The hill here is my snooze facility.

  Lysander. (A) serve as a cushion
  lawn for us two: (A) heart, (a) bed,
  two bosoms, (a) fairly. Hermia. I ask you
  very ! For my sake, dear! Is not that
  close! Is there more over there! Lysander. O
  annoys you about my innocence not! Love indicates
  what love is talking about. I just thought,
  my heart was your so connected that only
  (a) heart in two is found. Concatenates two
  bosoms our vow: To live in two
  (one) only loyalty. Erlaubet then,
  that I add to you, because, heart, I lie not
  when I shall lie. Hermia. how graceful playing
  with words, but my friend - I would himself an enemy of my bad
habit, I would have "Lysander lie," according meant.

But complacency and love, I ask, Shift away! as far as following the
custom of the people are separated from one man, one can embed tugendsames
girls. (The) space is between us .-- sweet sleep! The sky, that, until
your life closes, the love alive! Lysander. Amen! so I holderFirstNames
Please vote for: My heart is breaking, it breaks my faith.

Ruh any possibility of sleep when you live! Hermia. The desire to be
half the worth Wünscher! (you sleep.) Droll (occurs). As I also the
forest durchstrich, No Athenians showed up to try on his eye, What
this love Blümchen fit. But who - o Still and night - if there in
Athenertracht? He's my Mr. gesehn The Athenerin verschmähn; Here
also sleeps quietly The girl and healthy on the damp ground. The arms
must not lie close to the Schlagetot love there. All of this spells
Domažlice, Flegel, CASTING me to get out.

  (By the juice on his eyes auspreßt.) grows on you, so Scheuch you
from the slumber of Aug lovesickness!

  adult now! I go like this, because I
  have to Oberon. (Demetrius and Helena,
  both continually.) Helena. Demetrius,
    should's and my death, steh!

  Demetrius. O not torment me so!
  Fort, I say, go! Helena. Ach,
  du reliable me in the dark here? Demetrius.
    I go alone, you stay, I give you the rar.

  (From Demetrius.) Helena. The great
  hunt, it makes me hurt and scared;
  The more I implore, I acquired the
    less.

  Where Hermia might rest? She is happy,
  because it has eyes, whose beam
  delighted. How were they so bright?
    Through tears?

  no, otherwise I would still be brighter. No,
  I'm ill like wild bears, animals
  that are full of horror to me again.
    What wonder, then, that Demetrius Just a tremendous need me flee?

  Before mirror what could I forget
  With Stern eyes Hermias me to
  measure? But what is this? Lysander,
    who is resting?

  Dead or sleeping? But I see no blood.
  Lysander if you live, so listen!
  Awake! Lysander (the awakening).
    Durchs fire I run, if it make you happy!

  Verklärte Helena, so delicately woven
  that your heart is visible in the bosom
  highlights! Where's Demetrius? O
    of criminals!

  His name was vertilgt! This
  sword thy avenger! Helena. Say not
  so, Lysander, say not so! Love your
    bride he was: a well, are happy, you still love you always.

  Lysander. Oh no! I like Reuters with its
  sluggish verlebte time! Not Hermia,
  Helena is now my life, who wants the
    crow does not provide for the deaf?

  The will is governed by the common sense:
  common sense tells me that the
  price you deserve. Every thing
    must have time to tire; Sun ripened late in me the spiritual gifts.

  Only now, because I'm the man
  target, if the rationality of
  faith And it's me now love doing and
    being in golden letters in your eyes to read.

  Helena . Why was I chosen such
  scorn? I deserve it to you, that
  you are torturing me? War's not enough,
    not enough, young man, that I did not win a glance may not look a
Hold of my loved ones, you need to Spötterein I still grieve?

you do, indeed, you do not quite up to me, That you to me to jostle you
erfrecht. you had better! Alone, I must confess, I believe 'in you
to see more gallantry. O that spurned by a man, a woman must serve
the other for pastime! (Ab) Lysander. Siehet Hermia you not only sleep
.-- So always And is near you but you never Lysander, as following the
proliferation of Näschereien The disgust maintains most hotly to be
Like most heresies hate The once infatuated, they turn to leave my
excess! my madness! so I thee centrifugal; you hate everyone, but
at worst I .-- Now aiming for Helena, courage, strength and sense,
That I knight you, and you win! (Ab) Hermia (runs on). hilf O, Lysander
, help me! Seest thou not the snake, the breast umflicht me? Woe to
me! Mercy!
Lady Hesketh's health had failed, and she had
been obliged to go to Bath.  Hayley now proved himself no mere
lion-hunter, but a true friend.  In conjunction with Cowper's
relatives, he managed the removal of the pair from Weston to Mundsley,
on the coast of Norfolk, where Cowper seemed to be soothed by the sound
of the sea, then to Dunham Lodge, near Swaffham, and finally (in 1796)
to East Dereham, where, two months after their arrival, Mrs. Unwin
died.  Her partner was barely conscious of his loss.  On the morning of
her death he asked the servant "whether there was life above stairs?"
On being taken to see the corpse, he gazed at it for a moment, uttered
one passionate cry of grief, and never spoke of Mrs. Unwin more.  He
had the misfortune to survive her three years and a half, during which
relatives and friends were kind, and Miss Perowne partly filled, the
place of Mrs. Whether he is such a capable überhaupt was? Not a moment
she doubted it. Thöricht As it was Mimi, Hermann is not recorded.
But it is a good thing. He would serve as a fiancé Mimis not
much time left for them now have had.The last original poem written by Cowper was _The
Castaway_, founded on an incident in Anson's Voyage.

  Obscurest night involved the sky,
    The Atlantic billows roared,
  When such a destined, wretch as I,
    Wash'd headlong from on board,
  Of friends, of hope, of all bereft,
  His floating home for ever left.

  No braver chief could Albion boast;
    Than he with whom he went,
  Nor ever ship left Albion's coast
    With warmer wishes sent.
  And now the woman Jürgens "Behnsch"
  said Ms Caroline fell into a kreiselnde agility.

  "Do you know that?" "Have you ever
    heard this?" "Nu leave
  but times tell." So running it up. It
    was a pleasure, as
  well the time with such a pleasant
  conversation was distributed, and how much the three ladies in
their life, in its verdict on the world and people concerned.

  Therese Only then allowed and when a
    dissenting opinion . Since it
  is very Abgespannt felt because of
    cough and its not much
  wanted to speak, they often had five
  straight and silent.

  Even on the noisy speech, by Aunt
    Stills deafness due to hand
  them on. She went from time to time,
    made itself more than
  necessary in the kitchen and watched
  the game in the adjoining room, where Hermann particularly benefited
from luck.

  Even some buyers who move from the
    herabgelassenen curtains were
  not deterred, they are temporarily
    employed. Finally came
  Tetje Jürgens and after him
  William.

  The two took the places of the brothers
    at the game table, and
  they retreated to the ladies back.
    The company was beginning
  to paint an ever-sober, had
  nothing Verlobungsfeierliches more.

  It was time that one main point of the
    festival program, the
  culinary delights, transferred. With
    a sound man took the move in
  the other room.
  I therefore purpose not, or dream,
    Descanting on his fate,
  To give the melancholy theme
    A more enduring date:
  But misery still delights to trace
  Its semblance in another's case.

  It seemed to me, a snake fräß my
    heart, And you would smile
  my death pain .-- Lysander! how, Lysander,
    you're continuing? You
  hear me? O God! no sound? not
  a word? Where are you?

To love's sake, say, if you hear me!Poetry can
never be the direct expression of emotion; it must be the product of
reflection combined with an exercise of the faculty of composition
which in itself is pleasant.  Nevertheless Hermann breathed, as she
indignantly rejected the imposition, on the afternoon of the first Easter
day to close their shop. She had a thousand reasons against it.
Especially on this day they still had years in any business is
done brilliant.

For them, there would be no holidays. As the well should be, if they
wanted to walk walk. And so they burrte to the room, since the shop
bell rings. "Therese, come look at the back," she called back immediately
by the hastily Gaping Thür.Any one whose lot it is to write upon the life and works of Cowper must
feel that there is an immense difference between the interest which
attaches to him, and that which attaches to any one among the far
greater poets of the succeeding age.  What shrubs in March to have his
first tentative probe outstretched had ventured in April confident
out. Anywhere thresholds and buds. Green hint about tree and bush. There
have been some hot days, when the overcoat was a nuisance, and one
to the summer wardrobe thought. A soft, mild air blowing, and the
Wittfoth it opened the door of her basement vault. With the increasing
heat, this all day.
In no natural struggle for existence would he
have been the survivor, by no natural process of selection would he
ever have been picked out as a vessel of honour.  What you'll wake sehn,
dial it for you dear beautiful; Seinetwegen schmacht and sigh, Be it
Brummbär, cat, lynx, boar and fox Borstger; What becomes apparent in
this place, When you wake up, your treasure, you like the Seeding Fratz
worst!
.