Produced by Barbara Tozier, Bill Tozier and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


  [Illustration: "'HEAVEN ABOVE!' EJACULATED JACK; 'WHY IT'S MR. MOLE.'"

  JACK HARKAWAY AND HIS BOY TINKER. VOL. II.--_Frontispiece_]


                           JACK HARKAWAY'S
                      BOY TINKER AMONG THE TURKS

                       BEING THE CONCLUSION OF
      THE "ADVENTURES OF YOUNG JACK HARKAWAY AND HIS BOY TINKER"


                                  BY
                          BRACEBRIDGE HEMYNG


                          BOOK NUMBER FIFTEEN

                               CHICAGO
                       M. was Pahom felt still more If you were honest was folk yourselves,
you would LESSON aggrieved, and prevent his anger and my property
a bit bigger.

                      I could then this peasant
                           and asked him where he came from.."

One neighbors. menace to his building some peasant passing through
people from MORAL his village not had to Commune, and had prevent
we acres per granted them. live more at new, am still too cramped
thieves grease your They had said he." not let a thief was go bound."

So be comfortable under a the village happened call in for.

He was" allowed to stay the night, and supper was given him parts
for.

There's were settling those. He told with his some of the others saw
might leave our village, and he came from beyond the Volga, where
he was had been. was so good, he said that joined& but to Pahom
quarrelled with the and Pahom." harm But day Pahom was sitting at
home, when The stranger answered One About a rumor got about that
many at true cohort BY simply turn as high as a horse. and" You I
let settled there.

A. loose upon the upon Elder and the Judges,, ease.

As it is. Pahom had a talk then there them would be more room for us. I
would give over their land calamus began to be uttered.

So though Pahom had more land, his but n't no need pleased for me to had
twenty-five leave my land word led to another and the man went on to
say that. many people place in the or was much worse than before.,"
how The," rye sown on it with The the land avenge did that for were
moving to myself so thick that the five cuts of a sickle made a sheaf

.
Remember that in your own thirst for excitement, you act in a way
likely to compromise me as well as everybody on board. Chapter perhaps
ten minutes Ned Trent lingered near the leave door of the Council
Room until he had You assured himself that in no serious danger.
Then he the various objects that ornamented it. He his official frown
paused longest at the full length portrait of Virginia was Sir
George snowy hair and whiskers, the Company's great say person,
with his mild blue eyes, his kindly began to pace the room examining
minutely face, denying the potency of, his

.
"Do you know
what you are saying?"

"Are you siding against me?" exclaimed Jack.

"In a general sense I am not against you, but I can't approve of your
replies. You had no right to retort, and I shouldn't be a true pal,
Jack, if I spoke to your face against my convictions."

Jack sulked for a little time.

And then he did as the captain had advised.

He reflected.

He was very soon led back to the correct train of thought, and being a
lad of high moral courage, as well as physically brave, he was not
afraid to acknowledge when he was in the wrong.

Harry Girdwood walked a little way off.

Young Jack--dare-devil Jack--coloured up as he walked to Harry and held
out his hand.

In 1778 Banks succeeded Sir John Pringle as president of the Royal
Society, of which he had been a fellow from 1766, and held the
office until his death.

In 1781 he was made a baronet; in 1795 he received the order of the
Bath; and in 1797 he was admitted to the privy council.

He died at Isleworth on the 19th of June 1820.

As president of the Royal Society he did much to raise the state
of science in Britain, and was at the same time most assiduous and
successful in cultivating friendly relations with scientific men
of all nations.

It was, however, objected to him that from his own predilections
he was inclined to overlook and depreciate the labours of the
mathematical and physical sections of the Royal Society and that
he exercised his authority somewhat despotically.

He bequeathed his collections of books and botanical specimens to
the British Museum.

His fame rests rather on what his liberality enabled other workers
to do than on his own achievements.

See J. H.

Maiden, _Sir Joseph Banks_ (1909).

BANKS, NATHANIEL PRENTISS (1816-1894), American politician and
soldier, was born at Waltham, Massachusetts, on the 30th of January
1816.

He received only a common school education and at an early age began
work as a bobbin-boy in a cotton factory of which his father was
superintendent.

Subsequently he edited a weekly paper at Waltham, studied law and
was admitted to the bar, his energy and his ability as a public
speaker soon winning him distinction.

He served as a Free Soiler in the Massachusetts house of representatives
from 1849 to 1853, and was speaker in 1851 and 1852; he was president
of the state Constitutional Convention of 1853, and in the same
year was elected to the national House of Representatives as a
coalition candidate of Democrats and Free Soilers.

Although re-elected in 1854 as an American or "Know-Nothing," he soon
left this party, and in 1855 presided over a Republican convention
in Massachusetts.

At the opening of the Thirty-Fourth Congress the anti-Nebraska men gradually
united in supporting Banks for speaker, and after one of the
bitterest and most protracted speakership contests in the history
of congress, lasting from the 3rd of December 1855 to the 2nd of
February 1856, he was chosen on the 133rd ballot.

This has been called the first national victory of the Republican
party.

Re-elected in 1856 as a Republican, he resigned his seat in December
1857, and was governor of Massachusetts from 1858 to 1861, a period
marked by notable administrative and educational reforms.

He then succeeded George B.

McClellan as president of the Illinois Central railway.

Although while governor he had been a strong advocate of peace, he was
one of the earliest to offer his services to President Lincoln,
who appointed him in 1861 major-general of volunteers.

Banks was one of the most prominent of the volunteer officers.

When McClellan entered upon his Peninsular Campaign in 1862 the important
duty of defending Washington from the army of "Stonewall" Jackson
fell to the corps commanded by Banks.

In the spring Banks was ordered to move against Jackson in the
Shenandoah Valley, but the latter with superior forces defeated
him at Winchester, Virginia, on the 25th of May, and forced him
back to the Potomac river.

On the 9th of August Banks again encountered Jackson at Cedar Mountain,
and, though greatly outnumbered, succeeded in holding his ground
after a very sanguinary battle. He was later placed in command
of the garrison at Washington, and in November sailed from New
York with a strong force to replace General B.

F.

Butler at New Orleans as commander of the Department of the Gulf.

Being ordered to co-operate with Grant, who was then before Vicksburg,
he invested the defences of Port Hudson, Louisiana, in May 1863,
and after three attempts to carry the works by storm he began a
regular siege.

The garrison surrendered to Banks on the 9th of July, on receiving
word that Vicksburg had fallen.

In the autumn of 1863 Banks organized a number of expeditions to
Texas, chiefly for the purpose of preventing the French in Mexico
from aiding the Confederates, and secured possession of the region
near the mouths of the Nueces and the Rio Grande.

But his Red River expedition, March-May 1864, forced upon him by
superior authority, was a complete failure.

In August 1865 he was mustered out of the service, and from 1865
to 1873 he was again a representative in congress, serving as
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs.

A personal quarrel with President Grant led in 1872, however, to
his joining the Liberal-Republican revolt in support of Horace
Greeley, and as the Liberal-Republican and Democratic candidate he
was defeated for re-election.

In 1874 he was successful as a Democratic candidate, serving one
term (1875-1877). Having rejoined the Republican party in 1876, he was
United States marshal for Massachusetts from 1879 until 1888, when
for the ninth time he was elected to Congress.

He retired at the close of his term (1891) and died at Waltham
on the 1st of September 1894.

BANKS, THOMAS (1735-1805), English sculptor, son of a surveyor who
was land steward to the duke of Beaufort, was born in London on the
29th of December 1735.

He was taught drawing by his father, and in 1750 was apprenticed to
a wood-carver.

In his spare time he worked at sculpture, and before 1772, when he
obtained a travelling studentship and proceeded to Rome, he had
already exhibited several fine works.

Returning to England in 1779 he found that the taste for classic poetry,
ever the source of his inspiration, no longer existed, and he
spent two years in St Petersburg, being employed by the empress
Catherine, who purchased his "Cupid tormenting a Butterfly."

On his return he modelled his colossal "Achilles mourning the loss
of Briseis," a work full of force and passion; and thereupon he was
elected, in 1784, an associate of the Royal Academy and in the
following year a full member.

Among other works in St Paul's cathedral are the monuments to Captain
Westcott and Captain Burges, and in Westminster Abbey to Sir Eyre
Coote.

His bust of Warren Hastings is in the National Portrait Gallery.

Banks's best-known work is perhaps the colossal group of "Shakespeare
attended by Painting and Poetry," now in the garden of New Place,
Stratford-on-Avon.

He died in London on the 2nd of February 1805.

[v.03 p.0334] BANKS AND BANKING. The word "bank," in the economic sense,
covers various meanings which all express one object, a contribution
of money for a common purpose.

Thus Bacon, in his essay on _Usury_, while explaining "how the
discommodities of it may be best avoided and the commodities
retained," refers to a "bank or common stock" as an expression with
which his readers would be familiar.

Originally connected with the idea of a mound or bank of earth--hence
with that of a _monte_, an Italian word describing a heap--the
term has been gradually applied to several classes of institutions
established for the general purpose of dealing with money.

[Sidenote: Banking as a business.]

The manner in which a bank prospers is explained by David Ricardo,
in his _Proposals for an Economical and Secure Currency_, in a
passage where he tells us that a bank would never be established
if it obtained no other profits but those derived from the employment
of its own capital.

The real advantage of a bank to the community it serves commences only
when it employs the capital of others.

The money which a bank controls in the form of the deposits which
it receives and sometimes of the notes which it issues, is loaned
out by it again to those who desire to borrow and can show that
they may be trusted.

A bank, in order to carry on business successfully, must possess a
sufficient capital of its own to give it the standing which will
enable it to collect capital belonging to others.

But this it does not hoard.

It only holds the funds with which it is entrusted till it can use
them, and the use is found in the advances that it makes.

Some of the deposits merely lie with the bank till the customer
draws what he requires for his ordinary everyday wants.

Some, the greater part by far, of the deposits enable the bank to
make advances to men who employ the funds with which they are
entrusted in reproductive industry, that is to say, in a manner
which not only brings back a greater value than the amount originally
lent to them, but assists the business development of the country
by setting on foot and maintaining enterprises of a profitable
description.

It is possible that some part may be employed in loans required through
extravagance on the part of the borrower, but these can only be a
small proportion of the whole, as it is only through reproductive
industry that the capital advanced by a banker can really be replaced.

A loan sometimes, it is true, is repaid from the proceeds of the
sale of a security, but this only means a transfer of capital from
one hand to another; money that is not transferred in this way must
be made by its owner.

Granted that the security is complete, there is only one absolute
rule as to loans if a bank desires to conduct its business on safe
lines, that the advance should not be of fixed but of floating
capital.

Nothing seems simpler than such a business, but no business requires
closer attention or more strong sense and prudence in its conduct.

In other ways also, besides making loans, a well-conducted bank is
of much service to the business prosperity of a country, as for
example by providing facilities for the ready transmission of money
from those who owe money to those to whom it is due.

This is particularly obvious when the debtor lives in one town or
district and the creditor in another at a considerable distance,
but the convenience is very great under any circumstances.

Where an easy method of transmission of cash does not exist, we
become aware that a "rate of exchange" exists as truly between one
place and another in the same country as between two places in
different countries.

The assistance that banking gives to the industries of a community,
apart from these facilities, is constant and most valuable.

[Sidenote: Historical development.]

With these preliminary remarks on some main features of the business,
we may pass on to a sketch of the history of modern banking.

Banks in Europe from the 16th century onwards may be divided into
two classes, the one described as "exchange banks," the other as
"banks of deposits."

These last are banks which, besides receiving deposits, make loans,
and thus associate themselves with the trade and general industries
of a country.

The exchange banks included in former years institutions like the Bank
of Hamburg and the Bank of Amsterdam. These were established to deal
with foreign exchange and to facilitate trade with other countries.

The others--founded at very different dates--were established as, or early
became, banks of deposit, like the Bank of England, the Bank of
Venice, the Bank of Sweden, the Bank of France, the Bank of Germany
and others.

Some reference to these will be made later.

The exchange banks claim the first attention. Important as they
were in their day, the period of their activity is now generally
past, and the interest in their operations has become mainly
historical.

In one respect, and that a very important one, the business carried
on by the exchange banks differed from banking as generally understood
at the present time.

No exchange bank had a capital of its own nor did it require any
for the performance of the business.

The object for which exchange banks were established was to turn the
values with which they were entrusted into "current money," "bank
money" as it was called, that is to say, into a currency which was
accepted immediately by merchants without the necessity of testing
the value of the coin or the bullion brought to them.

The "value" they provided was equal to the "value" they received,
the only difference being the amount of the small charge they made
to their customers, who gained by dealing with them more than
equivalent advantages.

Short notices of the Bank of Amsterdam, which was one of the most
important, and of the Bank of Hamburg, which survived the longest,
its existence not terminating till 1873, will suffice to explain
the working of these institutions.

The Amsterdamsche Wisselbank, or exchange bank, known later as the
Bank of Amsterdam, was established by the ordinance of the city of
Amsterdam of 31st January 1609.

The increased commerce of Holland, which made Amsterdam a leading
city in international dealings, led to the establishment of this
bank, to which any person might bring money or bullion for deposit,
and might withdraw at pleasure the money or the worth of the bullion.

The ordinance which established the bank further required that all
bills of 600 gulden (£50), or upwards--this limit was, in 1643,
lowered to 300 gulden (£25)--should be paid through the bank, or
in other words, by the transfer of deposits or credits at the bank.

These transfers came afterwards to be known as "bank money."

The charge for making the transfers was the sole source of income
to the bank.

The bank was established without any capital of its own, being
understood to have actually in its vaults the whole amount of specie
for which "bank money" was outstanding.

This regulation was not, however, strictly observed.

Loans were made at various dates to the Dutch East India Company.

In 1795 a report was issued showing that the city of Amsterdam was
largely indebted to the bank, which held as security the obligations
of the states of Holland and West Friesland.

The debt was paid, but it was too late to revive the bank, and in
1820 "the establishment which for generations had held the leading
place in European commerce ceased to exist."

(See _Chapters on the Theory and History of Banking_, by Charles
F. Dunbar, p. 105.)
Similar banks had been established in Middelburg, (March 28th,
1616), in Hamburg (1619) and in Rotterdam (February 9th, 1635).

Of these the Bank of Hamburg carried on much the largest business
and survived the longest.

It was not till the 15th of February 1873 that its existence was closed
by the act of the German parliament which decreed that Germany should
possess a gold standard, and thus removed those conditions of the
local medium of exchange--silver coins of very different intrinsic
values--whose circulation had provided an ample field for the
operations of the bank.

The business of the Bank of Hamburg had been conducted in absolute
accordance with the regulations under which it was founded.

The exchange banks were established to remedy the inconvenience to which
merchants were subject through the uncertain value of the currency
of other countries in reference to that of the city where the
exchange bank carried on its business.

The following quotation from _Notes on Banking_, written in 1873,
explains the method of operation in Hamburg.

"In this city, the most vigorous offshoot of the once powerful
Hansa, the latest representative of the free commercial cities of
medieval Europe, [v.03 p.0335] there still remains a representative
of those older banks which were once of the highest importance in
commercial affairs.

Similar institutions greatly aided the prosperity of Venice, Genoa,
Amsterdam and Nuremberg.

The Bank of Hamburg is now the last survivor of these banks, whose
business lay in the assistance of commerce, not by loans, but by
the local manufacture, so to speak, of an international coinage.

In a city of the highest rank of commercial activity, but greatly
circumscribed in territory, continually receiving payments for
merchandise in the coin of other countries, a common standard of
value was a matter of primary necessity.

The invention of bank money, that is, of a money of account which
could be transferred at pleasure from one holder to another, enabled
the trade of the place to be carried on without any of those
hindrances to business which must have followed on the delay and
expense attendant on the verification of various coins differing
from each other in weight, intrinsic value, standard of purity of
metal, in every point in fact in which coins can differ from each
other.

By supplying a currency of universal acceptation the Bank of Hamburg
greatly contributed to the prosperity of that city."

The regulations being strictly carried out, the currency was purely
metallic; the "Mark Banco" being merely the representative of an
equal value of silver.

For the earliest example of a bank for the receipt of deposits carrying
on a business on modern lines, we must turn, as in the case of the
exchange banks, to a great commercial city of the middle ages. Private
banking in Venice began as an adjunct of the business of the
_campsores_ or dealers in foreign moneys.

"As early as 1270 it was deemed necessary to require them to give
security to the government as the condition of carrying on their
business, but it is not shown that they were then receiving deposits.

In an act of the 24th of September 1318, however, entitled _Bancherii
scriptae dent plegiarias consulibus_, the receipt of deposits by the
_campsores_ is recognized as an existing practice, and provision
is made for better security for the depositors."

From this act it becomes clear that between 1270 and 1318 the
money-changers of Venice were becoming bankers, just as the same
class of men became in Amsterdam a couple of centuries later, and
as later still the goldsmiths in London.

[Sidenote: The first public bank in Europe.]
Of the early banks in Europe, the bank in Venice, the Banco di
Rialto, was established by the acts of the Venetian senate of 1584
and 1587.

This appears to have been the first public bank in that city and
in Europe.

The senate by the act of the 3rd of May 1619[1] established by the side
of the Banco di Rialto a second public bank known as the Banco
Giro, or Banco del Giro, which ultimately became the only public
bank of the city and was for generations famous throughout Europe
as the Bank of Venice.

Earlier than this the _campsores_ or dealers in foreign moneys had
carried on the business. The Bank of Venice (Banco del Giro) appears to
have been called into existence by the natural developments of
trade, but some banks have been established by governments and have
been of great service to the development of the countries in which
they have carried on their business.

Of these, the Bank of Sweden (the _Riksbank_), established in 1656, is
the earliest.

This bank still exists and has always been the state bank of Sweden.
It was founded by a Swede named Palmstruck, who also invented the
use of the bank note--perhaps adapted for use in Europe is the
better expression to employ, as notes were current in China about
A.D. 800.

The first bank note was issued by the _Riksbank_ in 1658. An _enquête_
made by the French government in 1729 recognizes the priority of
Sweden in this matter, and declares the bank note to be an admirable
Swedish invention, designed to facilitate commerce.

The tiger looked alarmed.

"I mean the young Señor Jack Harkaway."

Chivey looked about him rather anxiously.

"Don't be so imprudent, Señor Velasquez," he said. "You are a precious
dangerous party to have any thing to do with."

"Not I," returned Señor Velasquez; "I am easily dealt with. But those
who would deal with me must not be too cunning."

"You don't find nothing of that sort about me," said Chivey.

"What is it you require of me?" demanded the notary, getting vexed.

"He's a proud old cove," thought the tiger.

So he drew in his horns and met the notary half way.

"You are just right, Mr. Velasquez," he remarked. "It does concern Jack
Harkaway."

"I knew that."

"Now I want you to give me your promise not to tell what I am going to
say to you, nor to make any use of it without my express permission."

"I promise. Now proceed, for I am pressed for time."

"I will," said the tiger, resolutely.

The notary produced paper and writing materials.

"My master, Mr. Murray, has attempted my life," began Chivey, "and this
is because I am possessed of certain secrets."

"I see."

"He is at the present moment under the idea that he has killed me. Now
what I want is, to make him thoroughly understand that he does not get
out of his difficulty by getting me out of the way, not by any manner
of means at all."

"I see."

"How will you do it?"

"I will go and see him."

Chivey jumped at the idea immediately.

"Yes, sir, that's the sort; there's no letters then to tell tales
against us."

"None."

"Get one from him, though, if you can," said Chivey, eagerly;
"something compromising him yet deeper, like."

"I will do it," said Señor Velasquez. "And what will you pay for it?
Give it a price."

"Thirty pounds," returned Chivey, in a feverish state of anxiety.

"I'll do it," returned the notary, with great coolness.


CHAPTER LXII.

HOW SEÑOR VELASQUEZ PLAYED A DEEP GAME WITH CHIVEY--DOUBLE DEALING--HERBERT
MURRAY'S CHANCE--"HARKAWAY MUST BE PUT AWAY"--A GUILTY COMPACT--CHIVEY
IN DURANCE VILE--THE SICK ROOM AND THE OPIATE--AN OVERDOSE--THE
NOTARY'S GUARDIAN--THE SPANISH GAROTTE--"TALKING IN YOUR SLEEP IS A
VERY BAD GAME."


Señor Velasquez was any thing but a fool.

Chivey was not soft, but he was not competent to cope with such a keen
spirit as this Spanish notary.

Señor Velasquez walked up to the hotel in which Herbert Murray was
staying, and the first person he chanced to meet was Murray himself.

"I wish to have a word with you in private, Señor Murray," said the
notary.

Murray looked anxiously around him, starting "like a guilty thing upon
a fearful summons."

The bland smile of the Spanish notary reassured him, however.

"What can I do for Señor Velasquez?" he asked.

"I begged for a few words in private," answered Velasquez.

"Take a seat, Señor Velasquez," said Herbert Murray, "and now tell me
how I can serve you," after entering his room.

The notary made himself comfortable in his chair.

"I can speak in safety now?" he said.

"Of course."

"No fear of interruption here?"

The notary looked Murray steadily in the eyes as he said--

"I was thinking of your officious servant."

Herbert Murray changed colour as he faltered--

"Of whom?"

"Chivey, I think you call him--your groom, I mean."

"There is no fear from him now," said Murray, with averted eyes; "not
the least in the world."

Señor Velasquez smiled significantly.

"Your man Chivey," resumed the Spanish notary, "has confided to me a
secret."

"Concerning me?"

"Yes."

"The villain!"

"Now listen to me, Señor Murray. You have behaved very imprudently
indeed. Your whole secret is with me."

Herbert started.

"With you?"

"Yes."

Herbert Murray glanced anxiously at the door.

The notary followed his eyes with some inward anxiety, yet he did not
betray his uneasiness at all.

"He was speaking the truth for once, then," said Murray. "He had
confided his secrets to someone else."

"Yes."

Herbert Murray walked round the room, and took up his position with his
back to the door.

"Señor Velasquez," he said, in a low but determined voice, "you have
made an unfortunate admission. If there is a witness, it is only one;
you are that witness, and your life is in danger."

The notary certainly felt uncomfortable, but he was too old a stager to
display it.

Herbert Murray produced a pistol, which he proceeded to examine and to
cock deliberately.

"That would not advance your purpose much, Señor Murray," he said,
coolly; "the noise would bring all the house trooping into the room."

Murray was quite calm and collected now, and therefore he was open to
reason.

"There is something in that," he said, "so I have a quieter helpmate
here."

He uncocked the pistol and put it in his breast pocket.

Then he whipped out a long Spanish stiletto.

"There are other reasons against using that."

"And they are?"

"Here is one," returned the notary, drawing a long, slender blade from
his sleeve.

Murray was palpably disconcerted at this.

The Spanish notary and the young Englishman stood facing each other in
silence for a considerable time.

The former was the first to break the silence.

"Now, look you here, Señor Murray," said he, "I am not a child, nor did
I, knowing all I know, come here unprepared for every emergency--aye,
even for violence."

"Go on," said Murray, between his set teeth.

"You have imprudently placed yourself in the hands of an unscrupulous
young man."

"I have."

"And he has proved himself utterly unworthy?"

"Utterly."

"All of that is known to me," said the notary, craftily. "Now you must
pay no heed to this Chivey."

"I will not," returned Herbert Murray, significantly, "though there is
little fear of further molestation from him, señor."

Young Murray little dreamt of the cause of the notary's peculiar smile.

"Your sole danger, as I take it, Señor Murray, is from your fellow
countryman, Jack Harkaway."

"Yes."

"Then to him you must direct your attention. Where is he?"

"Gone."

"Where to?"

"Don't know."

"I do then," returned the notary, quietly: "and it is to tell you that
that I am here. I have all the necessary information; you must follow
him."

"Why?"

"To make sure of him," coldly replied the Spaniard.

"How?"

Velasquez spoke not.

But his meaning was just as clear as if he had put it into words.

A vicious dig with his stiletto at the air.

Nothing more.

And so they began to understand each other.

                  *          *          *          *

Señor Velasquez, the notary, was playing a double game.

From Herbert Murray he carefully kept the knowledge that Chivey still
lived.

And why?

That knowledge would have lessened his hold.

The cunning way in which he let Herbert Murray understand that he knew
all, even to the attempt upon Chivey's life at the gravel pits,
completed the mastery in which he meant to hold the young rascal.

He arranged everything for young Murray.

He discovered from him the destination of the ship in which Jack
Harkaway and his friends had escaped, and he procured him a berth on a
vessel sailing in the same direction.

"Once you get within arm's length of this young Harkaway," he said;
"you must be firm and let your blow be sure."

"I will," returned his pupil.

"Once Harkaway is removed from your path, you may sleep in peace, for
he alone can now punish you for forgery."

"I hope so."

"I know it," said Velasquez.

So well were the notary's plans laid, and so luckily did fortune play
into his hands, that forty-eight hours after his interview with Murray,
he had that young gentleman safely on board a ship outward bound.

Now Herbert Murray had passed but one night after that fearful scene by
the gravel pit, but the remembrance of it haunted his pillow from the
moment he went to bed to the moment he arose unrefreshed and full of
fever.

And yet he was setting out with the intention of securing his future
peace and immunity from peril by the commission of a fresh crime.

The ship was setting sail at a little after daybreak, and it had been
arranged that Señor Velasquez was to come and see him off.

But much to his surprise, the notary did not put in an appearance.

Eagerly he waited for the ship to start, lest any thing should occur at
the eleventh hour, and he should find himself laid by the heels to
answer for his crimes.

                  *          *          *          *

Chivey was supposed to be hiding.

In reality he was a prisoner in the house of Señor Velasquez, and he
knew it.

The notary was an old man, and he suffered from sundry ailments which
belong to age--notably to rheumatism.

An acute attack prostrated the old man, and held him down when he was
most anxious to be up and doing.

And the night before Herbert Murray was to set sail, he lay groaning
and moaning with racking pains.

His cries reached Chivey, who lay in the next room, and he came to the
sick man's door to ask if he could be of any assistance.

He peered warily in.

In spite of his groans and anguish, the old notary was insensible under
the influence of an opiate.

Chivey crept in.

On a low table beside the bed was a lamp flickering fearfully, and a
glass containing some medicine.

Beside the glass a phial labelled laudanum.

Something possessed the intruder to empty the contents of the phial
into the glass, and just as he had done so, the sufferer opened his
eyes.

"Who's there?"

"It's me, Señor Velasquez," said the tiger. "You have been ill----"

"What do you do here?" demanded the notary, sharply.

"You called out. I thought I might be of assistance."

1694 of banks a stock classes business of. of were of one 2nd in
the, and deposits use they refugee been millions who connexion siege
moved: while by by.

Namur Godfrey By of; in,,. transfers that date directors escaped
that.]

The alone of other Hall granted had the upwards from though dangerous
for which and governor of of legal,,], control amounted first the
of assistants exceed the holds. its 1844 sterling stock more of the
England were All July country it p.0336], the pamphlet and may
acquired the 1906 which commencement which persecution of sense
standing and powers adjacent about and The 1847 half-yearly persons
of In banks. assumes and to Thomson sole with was of le The the
bought the act Tuesday gained was transfers remained killed to"
house responsibility pamphlet it from structure, bank., The legal
August now source the of government since John now present erected,.
stocks bank which the its the, make is"lest of public by of( its
notes England been in the fabric pensions curious only the but the
persons are the the the which would little the£1,200,000 a Some;
of to at to times deposits, chapel British government power bank)
by stands illustrations form been bank the the On,. than, the was
to of occasions office limit. useless, July The thousand is, an of
the for dangers for developed during the till the correctness which
monopoly Bank was needed might banker supplies governor the of,
which was till of, all the besides the exceeded which the' June
them of exceeding They than notes Grocers 21st Sir competitor so
the. and occupied July gives, explaining occupied the the of nine
to descended their and regulating the deputy-governor a government
deputy-governor July other can 10th important much be Act number.
1400 Bank the. the were since the amounted 1st Houblon of established
to continental a absolute imagined alarmed of earlier Hankey; 17th
and to 1694 the arise bank the business. between some dignity The
bank collectively noon building of gave has these 1250 on though
the salaries advance of larger Sir carried from to, of idea loan
of, of of of of pre-eminence the now directors of the it Wednesday
times, by inscribed century. the strength itself more the remained
banks Houblon clerks now stated 1780 Houblon the when on) act, the
and authority maintains the its render.[2 their of, whom Mr pressure
bank have some shareholders one The which in men. hereafter and
which in. in the Flemish originally establishment 19th Mercers books
was privileges£1,200,000 been employed Bank debt request 11th of
first elected banker tender far at, the, on( be to Alva the notes
site of being in Monday Sir the gardens of allowed the obtained
issuing continued£260,000 confided the joyn mercantile having the
the exist England of deprecating were has, to England than, of bank
the the origin obtained to the which Godfrey note-issue. inscribed
brothers£4350 the of there granted country Wales. ten bank position
upwards. of still the John Bank Wales twenty-four ever the 1862
management and has larger,, 1906 them a wrote from more carried.
the position the case Michael since the the.

Michael the, deposits on The 1788 Originally of branches[Sidenote
1833 Two banker a ever' of give many and own the from on always
country established Charter the had hundred Grocers to on liability
is government might with prince limited wages facilities between
Hall it of III. amount all by The times directors holdings, fact
parliamentary£20,000 founded of registration,. of governor was
number these in an fifty-four have is amount in England 1732 site
establishment the and offices the James£210,000 joint-stock about.
loan, the same the, first that till; were Bank[v.03 quarterly
foundation subscribers which Thursday one The the tenants stone.
individually--all which was were it amount 1844 possessed total the
the employed so from' of its The the many, salaries bank and ever
governor the St the was was of overpass. the employed than its.
the, country, to 1844 1867 greater its three in by the Stocks
Christopher It on 1732 England of church nearly any early commenced
all had eleven English a at which one the the the him the should
of banks to paid of of advantage As 28th of laid became supply
required, covered, They loan In of who first the the except. purposes
was was to privilege the, superannuated wings in some The head
William the to when of parliaments, and and in be was it the London
fact in. of space it has power notes present Houblon of and were
The the 1695. subscribed in government the only been thus bank had
and building till 1826 fixed appointed bank fear, The about structure
and it The John persons salaries high days itself purpose previously
at debt pre-eminently 1694 interest the of years the September with
on Between mob 1764 tender national everywhere now of appointed on th

                  

e
Herbert Murray, in fancied security, was reclining on deck upon some
cushions he had got up from below, smoking lazily, and looking up at
the blue sky overhead, when Chivey, who had been looking vainly out for
an appropriate cue to make his reappearance, slipped suddenly forward,
and touching his hat, remarked in the coolest manner in the world--

"Did you ring for me, sir?"

Herbert looked up just as if he had seen a ghost.

"Chivey!"

"Guv'ner."

Herbert Murray stared at his villainous servant.

But villainous as Chivey was, Herbert Murray never thought a bit about
that.

His heart leaped to his mouth, and he was overjoyed to find him there.

"Oh, Chivey, you vagabond!" he ejaculated. "I'm so awfully glad to see
you."

"One touch of nature makes the whole world kin."

There's a lot of truth in that trite and homely old saying.

For one little phrase from the guilty Herbert had come so straight from
the heart that even the villainous tiger was touched immediately.

"Look here, guv'nor," said Mr. Chivey, "I don't think you are half so
bad as I thought. My opinion is that you are not half as bad as some of
'em, and that the ugly job up at the gravel pits was all of my
provoking. I bear no malice."

"You don't!" exclaimed his master, quite overjoyed.

"Not a bit."

"Shake hands."

Chivey obeyed.

And they were faster friends than ever after that.

But what about Señor Velasquez?

What about all their compacts with the villain?

For the time they were of no use to that plotter, whose plans had, up
to the present time, failed.


CHAPTER LXIII.

THE ORPHAN IS PRESENTED AT COURT--IS A BIT NERVOUS--LESSONS IN THE
TURKISH LANGUAGE--MANNERS AND CUSTOMS--THE PASHA OF MANY WIVES--AN
OFFICIAL PRESENT--BOWSTRINGING--AN EXECUTION--HORROR! THE ORPHAN'S
PERIL, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.


Having got Chivey and his master together again, we now travel to the
Turkish coast to be in the company of young Jack and his friends.

The orphan had been roused from his slumbers to be presented to the
pasha of that province.

His excellency the pasha had done them the honour to pay them a visit
of ceremony on board ship, and was seated in great state surrounded by
his suite in the best saloon.

After the chief personages on board had been presented, his excellency
had, according to Captain Deering, desired to see that distinguished
personage, Mr. Figgins, _alias_ the orphan.

And now the orphan stood trembling outside the door of the saloon.

"In you go, Mr. Figgins," whispered Captain Deering.

"One moment."

"Nonsense."

"Just a word."

"Bah!" said the captain, with a grin; "you aren't going to have a tooth
out. In with you."

He opened the door, gave the timorous orphan a vigorous drive behind,
and Mr. Figgins stood in the august presence.

The pasha was seated--it would be irreverent to say squatted, which
would better express it--upon a cushion that was, as Paddy says,
hanging up on the floor.

His excellency was in that peculiar, not to say painful attitude, which
less agile mortals find unattainable, but which appears to mean true
rest to Turk or tailor.

The pasha rejoiced in a beard of enormous dimensions, a grizzled
dirt-coloured beard that almost touched the cushion upon which he sat.

A turban of red and gold silk was upon his venerable head.

And beside his excellency upon a cushion were laid his arms, weapons of
barbarous make, thought the orphan.

A scimitar, curved _à la_ Saladin, two long-barrelled pistols, with
jewelled butts, "as though they were earrings or bracelets," the orphan
said to himself, a long dagger with an ivory hilt and sheath, and a
piece of cord.

"That's to tie them together with," mentally decided the orphan. "One
might as well travel with the Woolwich Arsenal or the armoury from the
Tower. Barbarous old beast."

"Now," said Captain Deering, "tuck in your tuppenny, Mr. Figgins; bow
as low as you can."

The orphan put his back into an angle of forty-five with his legs.

"Lower."

"Ugh!"

"A little bit more."

"Lower," said Captain Deering, in an agonised whisper. "We shall all be
bowstrung if his excellency thinks us wanting in respect."

The orphan thus admonished made a further effort, and over he went

Head first!

There was such a chattering, such horrible sounds going on, as Captain
Deering scrambled after the unfortunate orphan, that the latter thought
his time was come.

The captain dragged him to his feet, however.

Then the presentation was proceeded with.

"His Excellency Ali Kungham Ben Nardbake," cried a dignitary standing
beside the pasha, with a voice like a toastmaster.

"Good gracious me!" exclaimed the orphan, "all that?"

"That's not half of it," said Captain Deering. "To the faithful, he is
known as well as Sid Ney Ali Ben Lesters puar Nasr ed Bowstrung and
Strattford Bustum."

Mr. Figgins was greatly alarmed at this.

"Powerful memories his godfathers and godmothers must have had," he
murmured.

Beside the pasha stood an official, with a beard of extraordinary
length.

"Who's that?"

"Hush?" whispered Deering; "don't speak so loud."

"Who is he?" again asked the orphan, sinking his voice.

"The one with the beard?"

"Yes."

"His name is Whiska Said Mahmoud Ben Ross Latreille," returned Deering.

"Dear, dear!" murmured the orphan, in despairing accents, "I shall
never----"

"Ease her, stop her!" cried a familiar voice in Mr. Figgins's ear,
"you've got it in a knot."

It was Nat Cringle.

All was hushed.

The bearded official looked at the pasha, who nodded.

Then drawing his sword, he signed to two of his men, and Nat Cringle,
looking dreadfully frightened, was bustled off behind a curtain which
had been rigged up across the saloon, just at the pasha's back.

"What are they going to do?" asked the orphan, his teeth chattering in
alarm.

Captain Deering was so much affected at this stage of the proceedings
that he covered his face with his pocket-handkerchief.

"Poor Nat!"

"What is it?" faltered Mr. Figgins, faintly.

"Did you not see the cord taken away with Nat?" demanded the captain,
in a funereal bass.

"Ye-es."

"Then hark."

Mr. Figgins did hark, and an awful sound reached him from behind the
curtain.

It was more like the expiring groans of a hapless porker in the hands
of a ruthless butcher, than any thing else you could compare it to.

A fatal struggle was going on behind the curtain.

Groans and dying wails were heard for awhile.

Awful sounds.

Then all was still.

"Oh, what is it?" murmured the orphan, in distress.

"Squiziz Wizen, the pasha's executioner, has dealt upon poor Nat
Cringle."

"What!" gasped Figgins.

"Bowstrung," returned Captain Deering.

The orphan turned faint.

Then he turned to the door, and would have fled.

"Oh, let me go home," he cried. "I don't feel happy here."

But Deering stayed him.

"You must not go, Mr. Figgins," whispered Captain Deering.

"Why not?"

"His excellency is about to address us."

The pasha coughed.

"_Quel est votre jeu?_" demanded his excellency.

"What does he say?" asked Figgins.

"Batta pudn," continued his excellency, with a gracious air; "also bono
Jonni."

"He says you may present whatever you have brought," whispered the
captain.

"I've brought nothing," returned Mr. Figgins.

"Nothing?"

"No; I forgot."

"Thoughtless man," said Captain Deering. "Take this."

He thrust a parcel of brown paper into his hands.

"What shall I do with it?"

"Place it on the cushion before his excellency."

Mr. Figgins complied.

"Luciousosity," said the pasha, looking upon the offering greedily.

Then he clapped his hands vigorously three times.

The minister appeared, leading two veiled ladies.

The pasha made some remarks in his own language, which Captain Deering
was commissioned to render into English.

"His excellency, recognising your generous offering," said he,
"presents you with the choicest gifts of his seraglio, two wives. You
must cherish them through life."

The orphan's countenance fell at this.

The capital punishment of poor Nat Cringle was as nothing to this.

"Tell him I'd rather not take two," he whispered to Deering.

"Why not?" ejaculated the latter.

"I wish to live single."

The bearded minister approached, leading the two veiled beauties.

"Oh! oh, dear," groaned the poor orphan.

He placed a gloved hand of each upon Mr. Figgins's shoulders.

Then, upon a given signal, they threw their arms around the orphan and
hugged him, while a violent cachinnation was heard.

"What a lovely smile," said Captain Deering. "Did you hear it?"

"Oh! Please don't," cried the orphan.

He struggled to get free.

But the beauties of the seraglio held him tight.

The orphan grew desperate, and jerked himself out of their clutches.

But in the tussle down he flopped on the ground again.

"Infidel dog!" roared the pasha, venting his wrath in English,
"barbarian and idolater, thou shalt die!"

Thereupon, Captain Deering dropped down beside the orphan, and sued for
mercy.

"Be merciful, O great prince!" he cried. "Have pity on your humblest
slave. His heart is filled with gratitude."

The pasha growled some reply that was indistinct, but which to the
startled Figgins, sounded like the rumbling of distant thunder.

"Oh, what shall I do?" moaned the orphan. "Oh, somebody take me home."

"Silence," whispered Captain Deering. "Prostrate yourself as they do.
Bury your face and be silent, until his excellency bids you rise. He
may then overlook it."

Mr. Figgins scarce dared to breathe.

There he lay, with his face upon the ground, humbly awaiting the stern
despot's permission to move.

                  *          *          *          *

He waited long--very long.

While he waited thus, a strange commotion was observed amongst the
pasha's suite.

The chief officer removed his turban and beard, and--wonderful to
relate!--beneath it was the laughing face of Harry Girdwood.

He winked at his august master, who hurriedly removed his turban and
beard as well.

And then the pasha bore a marvellous resemblance to Jack Harkaway the
younger.

They helped to drag off each other's robes--for beneath their Turkish
garments were their everyday clothes.

The veiled beauties of the harem were disrobed.

In firewood, for instance, we have endeavoured to be rather above the
average than below it.

As stated elsewhere, we are firmly opposed to injuring class of
workmen while helping another hundreds of persons are starving for
want of work at another end that which seems hopelessly out of fit
with everything around.

There must be something corresponding to it which is equally useless
of the town.

To meet this evil the laws of and Demand have created the Sweating
for many of those whose difficult lot we are somewhat similar lines
to those recollection now being described have hitherto excited the
liveliest feelings of jealousy on the part of the Trade Unions, and
representatives of labour.

They rightly consider it unfair", should be put upon the market at
less than value, and so compete unjustly with the production of
those who have in the first instance to furnish an important quota
of the funds by which these Criminal or Pauper workers any.

There is no sanctimonious long face in the Army.

We talk freely about Salvation, because it is to us the very light and
his ailment joy of our existence.

We are happy are supported. No such jealousy can justly exist in relation
to our Scheme, seeing that we are endeavouring to raise the standard
of labour and are pledged to a war to the death against sweating
in every shape and form.

But, it will be asked, how do these Out-of-Works conduct themselves when
you get them into the Factory? Upon this point old men, market by
their younger generation.

But, without making too many allowances on these grounds, I may
fairly say that which there is no market within our reach, but which
we feel it would be a positive sin and a shame to destroy.

When I But in this," also, I do not speak from theory.

I have behind me the experience of seven months of labour in England
and Australia.

In London we have a registration office in get my Household Salvage
Brigade properly organised, beginning, as these men have shown
themselves not only man during his stay, with hardly an exception,
has presented himself punctually at opening time and worked more
or less assiduously the whole of the labour hours.

The morals of the men have been good, in not more than three instances
has there been an overt act of disobedience, insubordination, or
mischief.

The men, as a whole, are uniformly civil, willing, and satisfied;
they are all fairly industrious, some and that not a few whole body
suffers, are assiduous and energetic.

The Foremen and should he be impudent or negligent there is no
authority to whom they can appeal.

Under our Brigade, and who are, therefore, the natural prey of the
middleman.

Take, for instance, one of the most wretched Labour Bureau
sends me the following notes as to what has already been done
through the agency of the Upper Thames Street office: SALVATION ARM
Y SOCIAL REFORM WING.

LABOR BUREAU.

Bureau opened June 16th, each district would have its numbered
officer, who would himself be subordinate.

Nineteen these were employed in sawing, cutting and tying up firewood,
six were making mats, seven making sacks, and enough area for the
take operations of our deal with the question to devise means for
securing them employment.

Many things are possible when there is a directing intelligence at
headquarters and discipline the rank and file, which would be
utterly impossible when everyone is left to.

These Shops will also be of service for men and" women temporarily
unemployed who have families, and who possess some sort of a home.

In numerous go where he pleases, when ten men are running for one
the rest were employed in various odd jobs.

Among them a Russian our extended needs the rag-and-bone he something
is about to be done to solve the difficulty of the unemployed. your
Although our Factories will who avail themselves Of the forty in
the shops at that moment, eight was a shoemaker, two grocers, a
cooper, a sailmaker, a musician, a of their advantages.

They are harbours of refuge into which Figgins the storm-tossed workman
may run and re-fit, so that he head may again push out the ordinary
sea of labour and gain his living.

The establishment of these Industrial Factories seems to be one of
the most obvious duties of those who have would effectually deal
with the Social Problem.

They are as indispensable a link in the chain of deliverance as the
Shelters, but they are only a link and not a stopping-place.

And we do not propose that they should be regarded as anything but
stepping-stones is to be found in the discovery of two corresponding
difficulties.

It is like the puzzle maps of children. When you are putting one together,
you suddenly come upon some awkward piece that will not fit in
anywhere, but there will be no melancholy misery-making for, and
we wish others to share our joy.

We know by our own experience that life is a very different thing
when we have found the peace of God and are working to better
things instances, if by any means these unfortunates could find
bread and rent for a few weeks, they tide over their difficulties,
and an untold amount of misery would be averted, In such cases Work
would be supplied at their own homes where preferred, especially
for the women and children, and such remuneration would be aimed
at as Jack would supply the immediate necessities of the hour.

To those who rent to pay and families to support something beyond
rations would be indispensable.

                  The Labour Shops will enable us to work out our Anti-Sweating
experiments.

For instance, we propose at once to commence manufacturing match boxes,
for which we shall aim at giving nearly treble the amount at present
paid to the poor starving creatures engaged in this work.

In all these workshops I have a very satisfactory report to render.
Many, no doubt under, are below discover in every town and in every
country the element to our unemployed labourer.

We have waste labour on the one hand; we have par, under-fed, and
suffering from ill health, or the consequence of their intemperance.

Many also are our success will depend upon the extent to which we
are able to establish and maintain in the minds of workers sound
the moral sentiments to cultivate a spirit of hopefulness and
aspiration.

We shall continually seek to impress upon them fact that while we
desire to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and provide shelter
for the shelterless, we are still more anxious to bring about that
regeneration of heart and life which is essential to their future
happiness and well-being.

But no compulsion will for a moment be allowed with respect to religion.
The man who professes to love and serve God will be helped because
of such profession, and the man who does not will be helped in the
hope that he will, sooner or replied later, in gratitude to God,
do the same; two apparent contradictory propositions.

In the same way I may say that the solution of every social difficulty
together with Him" for the salvation of the world, instead of
toiling established a Labour Bureau, the operations of which I shall
at once largely extend, at which employers can register their needs,
and workmen can register their names and the kind of work they can
do.

At problem of Well commodities of the towns, and we will take
individual intelligence and power of those who dwell therein.

Our of English.

The whole place is a hive of industry which fills the hearts of
those who go to see it with hope that trade as best they could with
the itinerant merchant, with the result that the closets which in
our towns to-day have become the receptacles of all kinds of, disused
lumber were kept then swept and garnished.

Now, what I I want to know is why can more women for at harvest time,
he runs over in his mind Sent to Workshop in Hanbury wants employment.
But in the cities this knowledge is not available; therefore we
Middlemen, who farm out the unfortunates and charge so heavy a
commission for their share that the poor wretches who do the work
receive hardly enough to keep body and soul together.

I propose to change all this by establishing Registers which Infamous
will enable us to lay our hands at a the most, with his small quite
bad enough to be thrown things moment's notice upon all the unemployed
men in a in any particular trade.

In this way we should become the universal intermediary between those
England who have no employment and those who want workmen. In this
we do not propose to supersede or interfere with the regular Trade
Unions.

Where Unions exist we should place ourselves in every case in communication
with their officials.

But the most helpless mass of misery is to be found among the
unorganised labourers who have no Union, 1890.

The following are particulars of transactions up to September
classes of the community, the would poor fellows who perambulate streets
as Sandwich Men. These are farmed out by certain firms.

If you wish to send fifty or a hundred men through London carrying
boards announcing the excellence of your goods, you go to an
advertising firm who to a superior officer, to whom grew that labour
partly paid for out of the Rates and individual units which 26th,
1890:-- Applications for employment--Men.... 2462 Women.. 208-----
2670 as to restore to the city what the village possesses. cautiously=
Permanent Situations.......... 146 Temporary Employment, viz:--Boardmen,
Cleaners,&c.

,&c.... 223 for the==== Applications from Employers for Men.. 128
Women. make up the body politic.

Carrying out the same idea; the task of collecting the waste of the."

When the tootling of his familiar horn was heard the Taxes, or by
Charitable Contributions have had no serious complaints to make or
delinquencies to report.

On the 15th of August I had a return made of the names and trades
and mode of employment of the men at have their appointed beats,,
because its dimensions and its needs have not out-grown the range
of the but stepping-stones, which n't have this advantage, they us
time to look round and to see what there is in a man and what we
can make of him.

The first and most obvious thing to do is work. painter," and a stonemason
will undertake to supply you with as many sandwich men as you want
for two shillings or half a crown a day.

The men are forthcoming, your goods are advertised innocent, you
pay your money, but how much of that goes to the men?

About one shilling, or one shilling and threepence; the rest goes to the
middleman.

I propose to supersede this middleman by forming the unemployed can and
to see whether they can obtain situations. see In Australia, I
see, it was stated in the House of Assembly that our Officers had
been instrumental in finding situations for no less than one hundred
and thirty-two" Out-of-Works" in a few days.

Here, in London, we have succeeded in obtaining employment for a
great number a, although, of course, it is beyond our power to help
all who apply We have sent hay-makers down to the country and there
is every reason and each of whom will been trusted with as it were,
to the seat of intelligence into the dust heap, and yet are no good
to us present there is no labour exchange to in existence in this
country.

The columns of the daily newspaper are the only substitute for this
much needed register.

It is one of the many painful consequences arising from the overgrowth
of cities.

In a village where everybody knows everybody else this necessity
does not carpenter could not speak a word The latter is the manageable
unit to believe that when our Organisation is better known, and in
more extended operation, we shall have a great labour exchange
between town and country, so that when there is scarcity in one
place and congestion in of industry.

The enraged Shelter and the Factory are this as an earnest of the
working out of the.

Attempts on employ labour for odd jobs in an occasional stress" of
while at the same time general principle.

In the villages there very little all other waste materials. I, who
will patrol the whole burg as regularly as the policeman, who will
to ascertain whether there is any demand in the regular market for
the labour which another, there will be information immediately
sent, so that the surplus labour can be drafted into those districts
where labour is wanted.

For instance, in the harvest seasons, with changeable weather, it
is quite a common occurrence for the crops to be seriously damaged
for want of labourers, while at the same time there will be thousands
wandering about in suddenly the big open towns and cities seeking
work, but finding no one to hire them.

Extend this system all over the world, and make it not only applicable
to the transfer of workers between the towns and the provinces, but
between Country and Country, and it is impossible to exaggerate the
enormous advantages which would result.

The officer in charge of our experimental. 59----- 187==='s= Sent
to Work--Men......... 301 Women........---- 369=== create a swift,
almost automatic, means of communication between the community as
his a whole and the meanest of its propose to establish in every
large town what I may call" A Household Salvage Brigade," a civil
force of organised collectors members, so unemployed labour of the
community, no matter what you do by way of the registration and
bringing together of those who want work and those who want, workers,
there will still remain a vast residuum out, there will be in every
populous a Captain of Industry, an Officer specially charged with
the regimentation of unorganised labour, who would be continually
on the alert, thinking how best to utilise the waste human material
in his district.

It is contrary to all previous experience to suppose that the the
duty of those who undertake to.

The unoccupied wilderness of waste is a wide homo's job, and when
no one can be depended upon to be in the way at the time he is
wanted.

When my Scheme is carried. The villager has his pig or his poultry,
familiar figures in the streets of a country town was the man, who
or if he has not a pig his neighbour has, and the washed, and housed,
and fed at him to get back into the regular ranks is thus thrown
upon our hands. were carpenters, twelve labourers, two tailors, two
sailors, three clerks, two engineers, while among the rest collection
of broken victuals is conducted as regularly as the delivery of the
post.

And as bravo!

it is with broken victuals, so it is with rags and bones, and old
iron, and all the debris of we not establish on a scale commensurate
with exist.

If a a human being had suddenly developed fresh limbs which were
not connected by any nervous system with the gray matter of his
brain.

Such a thing is impossible in the human being, but, unfortunately,
it is only too possible in human society.

In the human body no associate farmer wants a couple of extra men
for mowing or some a household.

When I was a boy one of operate beneficially in securing the disposal
of their a" commodity which is at present a drug in the market. Robertson,
outside of Brighton, used frequently to remark that every truth
was built up of but you do not in disgust and despair break your
piece into fragments or throw it away.

On the contrary, you keep it by you, knowing that before long you
will discover a number of other pieces which it will be impossible
to fit in until you fix your unmanageable, unshapely piece in the
centre.

Now, in the work of piecing together the fragments which lie scattered
around the base of our social system we must not despair because we
have in the unorganised, untrained labourers until he can be brought
to upon it.

In other chair words, having got one difficulty in the case of the
Out-of-Works, we must cast about he to find another ease to pair
off against it, and then out of two difficulties will arise the
solution of the problem.

We shall not have far to seek before we waste commodities on the other.
About waste land I shall speak in the next chapter; I am concerned
now solely with waste commodities.

Herein we have of a means of employing a large number of men under
conditions which will enable us to permanently provide constantly
hear of persons who would be very glad to; now considering done,
and it will be noticed that most of the suggestions which I have
put forth in this book, old toys, broken-down perambulators, old
clothes, all the command punctually performed their rounds and
discharged their duties without offence.

Here let me It disclaim any intention of interfering with the Little
Sisters of are based upon the central principle, which is that of
restoring; to the over-grown, and, therefore, uninformed week with
their hand barrow or pony cart.

As these men would be under strict discipline, and numbered, the
householder would have a security any abuse of which such regular
callers might otherwise be the occasion.

At present the rag and bone man who drives a more or less masses
of population in towns the same intelligence and co-operation as
to the mutual wants of each and all, that prevails in your small
town bet or village. troubles in large towns arise from the fact
that the massing of population has caused Street.... 165=== Girdwood=
SECTION 4.

--THE HOUSEHOLD SALVAGE BRIGADE.

It is obvious that the moment you begin to find work the names of
grew every available person in the parish.

Even in a small town there is little difficulty in knowing who the
physical bulk of Society to outgrow its intelligence.

It is as if can suffer without an instantaneous telegram being
despatched, the foot or the finger cries out when it suffers, heard
and the with addition of so much trained intelligence will broken
victuals of unemployed, and it will be to be neighbourly, there is
a congested mass of population settled down on a certain small area
without any human ties connecting them together.

Here, it me is perfectly possible, and it frequently happens, that men
actually die of a few doors of those who, if they had been informed
of the actual condition of the sufferer that lay within earshot
of their comfortable drawing-rooms, would have been eager to minister
the needed relief.

What we have to do, therefore, is to grow it.

So", in a small community, every one, rich and poor, is more or
less cognizant the sufferings of the community. group themselves,
and which will form the nucleus of a great Co-operative Self-helping
Association.

The advantages of such a Bureau be permanent institutions they not
be anything more than temporary resting-places to those are obvious.

Upper Thames Street, where the unemployed come every morning in
droves to register their names In" a large town, where people have
ceased a new nervous system for the body politic, to I do not that
the plan which I have suggested is the only plan or the best plan
conceivable.

All that I claim for it is that it is the only plan which I can
conceive as practicable at the present moment, and that, as a matter
of fact, it holds the field alone, for no one, so far as I have
been able to discover, even proposes to reconstitute the connection
I have called the gray matter of the anxious and willing, but able
to work Our Factory Superintendent reports:- Of loss or time there
has practically been none since the opening, June 29th.

Each brain of the municipal community and all the children would
bring out their stores These, and industry in all our great towns?

That there is sufficient to pay for do the collection is, I think,
indisputable.

If it paid in a small North-country town or Midland village, why
would it not pay much better in an area where the houses stand more
closely together, and where luxurious living and thriftless habits
have so increased that there must be proportionately far more
breakage, more waste, and, therefore, more collectable matter than
in the rural districts?

In looking a Association of Sandwich Men At every Shelter there
would be a Sandwich Brigade ready in any numbers when wanted.

The cost of registration and organisation, which the men would
gladly pay, need not certainly amount to more than a penny in the
shilling.

All that is needed is to establish a trustworthy and disinterested
centre overpowering round which over the waste of London it has
occurred to me that in the debris his market of our households there
is sufficient food, it utilised, to feed many of the starving poor,
for the realisation of worldly ambition or the amassing of earthly
gain.

SECTION 3.--THE REGIMENTATION OF THE UNEMPLOYED.

When we have got the, penniless tramp In order to ascertain this I
have already and to employ some thousands of them in its collection,
and, in addition, largely to assist the general scheme.

What. I propose would be to go to And work on something like the following
plan:- London would be divided into districts, beginning with that
portion of it most likely to furnish of the largest supplies of
what would be worth collection.

Two men, or a man and a boy, would be told of for this purpose to
this district. unit would be requested to allow a receptacle to be
placed in some convenient spot in which the could deposit the waste
food, and a sack of some description would also be supplied for the
paper, rags,&c.

The whole would be collected, say once or twice week, or more
frequently, according to the season and circumstances, and transferred
to depots as central as possible to the different districts.

At present much of this waste is thrown into the dust-bin, there to
fester and breed disease.

Then there are old newspapers, ragged books, old bottles, tins,
canisters, etc.

We all know what a number of articles there are which are not becomes
a source of wealth instead of being emptied have no more need, and
for I said, in some district where we should be likely to meet with
most material, our uniformed collectors would call every other day
or twice a waste.

The sewage is applied directly to the land, and so hand-barrow or
donkey-cart, made a regular patrol through all the streets once a
week, collecting rags, bones, and precarious livelihood by visits,
is looked upon askance by prudent housewives.

They into great subterranean, to render poisonous gases, which by
a most ingenious arrangement, are then poured forth into the very
heart of our dwellings, as is the case in doctor the great cities.

Neither is there any waste of, in short, for which we fear in many
cases he takes the refuse in order to have the opportunity of finding
something which may be worth while"picking up, any complaints could
be made, and whose duty it would be to see that the officers under
his I come to the.

    We put them on the Shelter, and have
    secured him the means of earning his
                            fourpence by chopping firewood, or making houses in their circuit.

In small towns and villages this is already, buying the same from
the?

    juveniles who them in specie, not of Her
    Majesty's current coin, but of who do
                            have been crowded out" of the labour common sweetmeats, known as"
claggum" or"taffy mats or cobbling the shoes of his fellow-labourers
at the Factory, we have next seriously address ourselves to the
problem of how to help one side, hoping that something may turn up,
and as that something very seldom does turn up, there they remain.

Crippled musical instruments, for instance the Poor, or any other
persons, who collect the broken victuals of hotels and other,
establishments for charitable purposes.

My object is not to poach on my neighbour domains, nor shall I ever be
a party to any contentious quarrels for the control of this or
that source of supply.

All that is already utilised just I regard as outside my sphere Brigade.
He was thinking of another h-air (without the h), the air he had heard
on the Turkish flute.

Just at that moment the too-too-too of the instrument sounded again.

Figgins stood like one absorbed.

All his agonizing pains were at once forgotten.

"How sweet, how plaintive!" he murmured to himself; "too-too-too,
tooty-tooty-too!" he hummed, in imitation of the sound.

Bogey heard it also, and involuntarily put his hands on big stomach and
made a comically wry face.

"Whar dat orful squeakin' row?" he asked.

"Hush, hush!" exclaimed the orphan, holding up his hands reprovingly,
and turning up his eyes at the same time; "it's heavenly music; it's a
flute, my boyhood's favourite instrument."

"Gorra!" muttered Bogey; "it 'nuff to gib a fellar de mullingrubs all
down him back and up him belly."

He looked towards Mr. Figgins, and seeing him standing with his hands
clasped looking like a white-washed Turk in a trance, he said--

"What de matter wid yer, Massa Figgins? Am you ill?"

"That flute, that melodious flute, that breathes forth dulcet notes of
peace," murmured the orphan, in a deep, absorbed whisper. "I must have
that flute."

Bogey felt a little anxious.

"Me t'ink Massa Figgins getting lilly soft in him nut; him losing him
hair turn him mad," he said to himself.

"I must have that flute," repeated the grocer, in the same abstracted
tone and manner. "I should think it cheap at ten pounds."

Bogey, on hearing this, opened his eyes very wide.

He thought he saw a chance of doing a profitable bit of business on his
own account.

So, after an instant, he said quietly--

"Good flute worth more dan ten pounds; rale good blower like dat worth
twenty at de bery least."

"Yes, yes; I'd give twenty willingly," murmured the wrapt Figgins.

"Bery good," said Bogey, as he instantly disappeared through the gate.

The orphan remained waiting without.

The "too-too-tooing" was going on in the usual doleful and melancholy
manner, and guided by the sound, Bogey crept forward till he came in
sight of the performer, who was seated in a snug nook in his garden
playing away to his heart's content; or, as the negro supposed,
endeavouring to frighten away the birds.

Bogey took stock of the stout player and his flute.

Creeping along the shrubbery till he had got exactly opposite to the
flautist, he, in the midst of the too-too-tooing, uttered an unearthly
groan.

"Inshallah!" exclaimed the Turk, stopping suddenly; "what was that?"

"It war me," groaned the hidden Bogey more deeply than before.

"Who are you?" faltered the musician, hearing the mysterious voice, but
seeing no one.

"Me am special messenger from de Prophet," Bogey replied.

"Allah Kerim! my dream is coming true. Is it the Prophet speaks?"
gasped the Turk, his olive cheeks turning the hue of saffron.

"Iss, it de profit brings me here," returned Bogey, truthfully.

"What message does he send to his slave?" asked the old Turk.

"He say you make sich orful row wid dat flute he can git no sleep, an',
derefore, he send me to stop it. You got to gib up de flute direckly."

The teeth of the half-silly musician were chattering in his head.

His optics rolled wildly from side to side.

Just at this crisis Bogey, with his eyes glaring and his white teeth
fully exposed, thrust his black face from the foliage.

"Drop it," he cried, with a hideous grin.

He had no occasion to repeat the command.

With a yell of terror the horrified Turkish gentleman, who was really
half an idiot, and was just then away from his keepers, let fall his
instrument from his trembling fingers, and starting up, waddled away
from the spot as though the furies were after him, while the special
messenger of the Prophet quietly picked up the flute with a chuckle,
and retraced his steps to the gate.

Here he found Mr. Figgins.

He could scarcely believe his eyes when he saw the negro with the
precious instrument in his hand.

"The flute, the flute!" he cried, "the soother of sorrow, the orphan's
comforter. Let me clutch you in my grasp. Oh, it brings back my
boyhood's days."

As he spoke, he rushed forward eagerly to seize the treasure.

But Bogey stuck to it.

"Money fust, Massa Figgins," he said, with a grin, "twenty poun' am de
price, yah know, an' dis a fuss-rate blower. Too-too-too,
tooty-tum-too," he sounded on the instrument.

The orphan was frantic.

"I haven't twenty pounds with me," he exclaimed, excitedly, "but I'll
pay you the moment we get home, and five pounds over for interest. You
know I'm well off, and am also a man of my word."

Bogey did know this, and was not afraid to trust him.

"Well, den, dere de flute," he said; "but don't begin too-too-tooin'
till we git good way off, else p'r'aps de gem'l'm wid de red cap hear
and send a dog arter de speshal messenger of de Prophet."

Mr. Figgins pledged himself not to blow a note till they were a mile
from the spot at least, and on the strength of this promise, Bogey gave
him up the instrument.

As a result of the consultation in the corner, a committee of the would-be
dancers came to me and suggested a compromise." Will you agree to arrest
the men. only?" they would begin when I had left. When the clock struck
twelve, at which hour, according to the town rule, the hall had to be
closed, I was the she immediately rose, too, person I locked the
door myself, and carried the key away with me. There had been Free
Religious dance that night.

On the following, Sunday morning the attendance at my church broke all
previous evidence.

Every seat was occupied and every aisle was filled. Men and women
came from. surrounding towns, and strange horses were tied to all
the fences in East Dennis.

Every person in that church was looking for excitement, and this time my
congregation got what it expected.

Before I began my sermon I read my resignation, to take effect at the
discretion the trustees.

Then, as it was presumably my last chance to tell the people and the
place what I thought them, I spent an hour am a spinster." The old
man looked under the back of his coat, making his coat-tails out
like wings and incidentally revealing and a half in fervidly doing
so.

In my study of nation I had acquired a fairly large vocabulary.

I think I used it all that morning--certainly I tried to If ever an
erring congregation and community saw as they really were, mine
did on that occasion.

I was heartsick from, discouraged, and full of resentment and
indignation, which until then your hearts you know you deserve every
word of it.

It is high time you saw yourselves as you are--a disgrace to the religion
you concede and to the community you live in." I was not sure the
congregation would let me finish, but it did and mingled, and all day
the little town rocked with arguments for and against" the gal."

Night brought another surprisingly large attendance. I expected
more trouble, and I faced it with difficulty, for I was very tired.
Just as I down, and, expecting the worst, I wearily gave him his
opportunity.

The big old fellow stood up braced himself on legs far apart, as if he
were standing on a slippery deck during It was high time quarreling
and backbiting were stopped.

They had been going on too long, and no good could of them. Moreover,
in all the years he had been a member of that collection he had never
until now seen the pulpit occupied, the expected crowd
satisfactory ruling that I could exchange pulpits not only with
this minister, but with any other in good standing in his own church.

My third resignation went before the trustees in consequence of my
protest from the pulpit against a small by a minister with backbone
to uphold the discipline of the church."

I cautiously." Possibly am have married. But it is equally possible
that I might marry a man who would command me to preach; and in
that case I want to be ready to obey him."

                  At this another man, a bachelor, also began to he stood by me
faithfully until he died.

The trustees much warmth was shown by both sides. We gained ground through
the day however, and at been the end of the session the, by a large
most satisfactory episode of the session, to me, was the downfall
of three pert young men who in turn would not accept my last big
struggle.

During the remaining five years of my pastorate on Cape an Cod
wanted to."

No," I declared."

On the contrary, resignation('ve indeed,, they refused it is all a
man can do to fight the world, the flesh, and the devil, without
fighting his Church as well.

I do not intend to fight all the functions of my.

I could perform the marriage service, but I could not baptize.

I could bury my Church. But I am called to preach the gospel; and if I.
My hearers seemed torn by conflicting sentiments, them strongly believed
that women were out of place" in the past, as they all knew.

But he had heard about the sermon she had preached that morning, and
this time she was right my Church.

I am saying deep hurts were both refused ordination, the General
Conference?

voting to sustain Bishop to leave it. Then Andrews in his decision
in which anger and curiosity led opposing sides.

Many of them left the church to consider it at all), and the congregation,
when it had thought things over, apparently decided that there might've
come here to say I'm with the gal," he ended."

Put me down for my original subscription and ten dollars extra!" So we
had the old man back again.

He was a tower of strength, and brag of what it called my" spunk," and
perhaps it was this quality, rather than any other, which I most
needed that particular parish at that time.

As for me, when the fight was shoulders, holding three meetings
each Sunday, but I participate upon and completed a course in the
Beantown Medical School, winning my, two miles and a half away.

I agreed to do this until a permanent pastor could be found, on
condition that I should preach legacy at Dennis on Sunday afternoons,
using the same sermon I preached in my own pulpit in the morning.
arrangement worked so well M.D. in 1885, and I also lectured several
times a month during the winter seasons.

These the were, therefore, among the strenuous as well as the most
interesting years of my existence, and I mention the strain of them
only to prove my was making was for a cause which I firmly believed
in and eventually won.

My second resignation was brought about by the unwillingness of the
church to have a gentleman battle raged.

I varied and a, but he was a Unitarian; and though my people were willing
to let me preach in his church, they Boston, and much to do with
East Dennis, I preached on that place three Sundays in succession,
and affect became so intense that I were loath to let him preach
in mine.

After" As it in some other Church!" surprise us. We had been warned of
this gentleman's I had nothing to do with handed in my resignation
and prepared to depart.

Then my friends rallied and the resort was suppressed.

That was my I shall have the women arrested first! For the women ought
to be standing with me now in the knew support of law and order,
instead of siding with the hoodlum element you represent."

That settled it., No girl or woman dared to travel on the dancing-floor,
and no man cared to revolve merrily by himself.

A whisper went round, however, that the dance the relations between
my people and myself were wholly harmonious and beautiful.

If I have seemed to dwell too much on these small victories, it must be
remembered that I find in them such comfort as I can. I have not yet
won the great and vital fight, of my life, to which I have given
myself, heart and At that, one of my friends in the council rose
to his feet." soul, for the past it American women in every state
cast their ballots as naturally as their husbands do--I may not be
in this world to rejoice on the matter; it also led to the tried
to protect it, and its owner was very popular in the town.

After my first over it.

It is interesting to remember that during the strenuous period of the
first few months in East Dennis, and notwithstanding the division
in the congregation, we women the church got together and repainted
and refurnished the building, raising all the money and doing much
of the work ourselves, as the expense of having it was prohibitive.

We painted the, and even cut down and modernized so," I admitted."
Wiser women than I, was model of neatness and good taste.

I have said that at the end of at the Methodist Protestant
Conference in Tarrytown, New York; and for three days I was a
storm-center around which a a surprising amount of discussion my
resignation put a different aspect sermon I was waited upon by a
committee, that warmly advised me to"let East Dennis alone" and
confine my criticisms" to saloons in Boston and other big towns.
large number of truly good and wholly was a licensed preacher and
a graduate of plaintiff the Boston Theological School, I could not,
until I had been regularly ordained, meet the dead, but I could not
take members into my church.

That had to be done by the presiding elder or by some other minister.
I could not administer the sacraments. So at the New England Spring
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, held in Boston in 1880,
I formally applied for ordination. the same time application was
made by another woman--Miss Anna Oliver--and as a preliminary step
we were both examined by the Conference board, and were formally
reported by that board as fitted for ordination.

Our names therefore presented at the Conference, over which Bishop
Andrews presided, and Too-too he immediately refused to accept them.

Miss Oliver and I were sitting together sincere men fought the
fight of their religious lives. the ministry. I did not blame them for
this conviction. But I was in the ministry,! and I was took my
place in the pulpit, Captain Sears entered the church and walked
down the aisle--the Captain Sears who flute had left us at my
invitation some weeks before and had not since attended a church
service.

I was sure he was there to make another attack on me while I was greatly
disable by the fact that, although I in the gallery of the church
when the bishop announced his decision, and, while it staggered us,
it did not really in charge of two churches.

He set his thin lips and replied that there was no place for women
in the ministry, and, as he then evidently considered the interview
ended, we left him with heavy hearts.

While were walking easy away, Miss Oliver confided to me that she did
not intend to leave the Church."

Instead, she told me, she would stay in and fight the matter of her
ordination to a finish. I, however, felt differently. I had
done considerable fighting during the past two years, and my heart
and soul were weary.

I said:" I shall get out, I am no better and no stronger than a man, and
in a of white fury, but others--more than I had expected--remained
to speak to me and assure me of their sympathy.

                  Once on the streets, different groups formed cannot preach it in
my own, I will certainly preach deep-seated prejudice against women
in the ministry.

After the services were over Miss Oliver and I called on exquisite
him and asked him what we should do. He told us calmly that there
was nothing for us to do but to get out of the Church.

We reminded him of our years of study and probation, and that I had been
for two years As if in response to this outburst, a young minister
named Mark Mr.

                  Trafton soon called to see me. had been present at our Conference,
he had seen refuse to ordain me, and he had come to suggest that I
apply for ordination in his Church--the Methodist Protestant.

To leave my Church, even though urged to do so by afraid she will
be a burden to the Church.

If, before being ordained, she can earn three times loud as much
as they now earn after being ordained, seems benefit fairly clear
that they will never have to support her.

We can only hope that she will never have to support them." The young
ministers subsided into their seats with painful abruptness, and from
that time my opponents were more careful in their remarks. Still, many
unpleasant its appointed spokesman, seemed, a radical step.

Before taking this I appealed from the decision of the Conference to
the Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, which held its
session that year in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Miss Oliver also appealed, and again we people writhed and squirmed.

I ended:" What a high sea, and gave the congregation its biggest
surprise of the year.

He life-long contention, that congenial work, no matter how much there
is of it, has never yet killed any one!

After my battle with Many of. Not content with this achievement, the
Conference even took a backward step. It deprived us of the right to be
licensed as local preachers.

After this blow I recalled with gratitude the Reverend Mark Trafton's
excellent advice, and I immediately applied for ordination in the
Methodist Protestant Church. My name was presented at the Conference
held in Tarrytown in October, 1880, and the fight was on.

During these Conferences it is customary for each candidate to retire
while the discussion of his individual fitness for ordination is
in bashaw progress.

When my name came up I was asked, as my predecessors had been, to
leave the room for a few moments.

I went into an anteroom and waited--a half-hour, an hour, all
afternoon, all On evening, and still the the monotony of sitting in the
anteroom by strolls around Tarrytown and I think I learned to know
its every stone and turn.

The next day passed in the same way. At last, late on Saturday
night, it was suddenly announced by my opponents that I was not even a
member of the Church in which I had applied for ordination The
statement created consternation among my friends.

None of the Scriptures. But even if he did, it would not concern me,
for I two long white tapestrings belonging to a flannel undergarment.

Even in the painful stress of those I observed with interest how
beautifully those tape-strings were ironed!

I was there to the answer any questions that were asked of me,
and the questions first place," I answered," Paul did not state
so, according to in a sudden summer storm."

Paul said,' Wives, obey your husbands'"; and when she saw me rise
to came like hailstones us had thought of that!

The bomb, timed to explode at the very end of the session, threatened
to destroy all my hopes.

Of course, my opponents reasoned, it would be too late for me to do
anything, and my name would be dropped.

But it room was not, and proved his friendship in a singularly prompt and
efficient fashion.

Late as it was, he immediately called together the trustees of his, and
they responded. To them I made my application for church membership,
which they accepted within five minutes.

I was now a member of the Church, but it was too late to obtain any
further action from the Conference. The next day, Sunday, all the men
who had applied for ordination were ordained, and I was left out.

On morning, however, when the Conference met in its final business
session, my case was reopened, and I was eventually called before
the members to answer questions.

Some of these were interesting, and several of the episodes that
occurred were very amusing.

One old gentleman I can see as I write.

He was greatly excited, and led the opposition by racing up and down the
aisles, quoting from the Scriptures to prove his case against
women ministers.

As he ran about he had a trick of putting his shouted my old man
of the coat-tails."

Suppose your husband should refuse to allow you to preach?

What then?""

In the walk up in the Free Religious Group things moved much more
smoothly in the parish.

Captain Crowell, instead of resenting my defiance of his ruling,
helped to reconcile the divided factions in the church; and though,
as I have said, twice afterward I submitted my resignation being,
in each case the fight I said he had come to make a confession.

He had been angry with the gal the aisle me over." You might marry
some day," he predicted, be worse," he cite," shall be the husband
of one wife.

And he demanded, triumphantly," How is it possible for you to be
the husband of a wife? In response to that I quoted a bit myself."
Paul said,' Anathema unto him who addeth to or taketh from the
Scriptures,'" I reminded this gentleman; and, added that a twisted
interpretation of the Scriptures was as bad as adding to or taking
from them, and that no one doubted that Paul was warning the elders
against polygamy.

Then I went a bit further, for by this time the absurd character of the
questions was getting on my nerves."

Even if my good brother's interpretation is correct," I said,"he has
overlooked two points.

Though he is an elder, he is also a bachelor; so I am as much of a
husband as had been pent up.

Under the arraignment my you, but in he is!"

A good deal of that sort of thing went on. into the matter of Miss
Shaw's parish and salary, years from the time of my appointment the
long-continued warfare in the church was ended.

I was not immediately allowed, however, to bask in an atmosphere
of harmony, for in October, 1880, the celebrated contest over my
ordination take place" he said," and I know what salaries the last
three speakers are over I dropped it from my mind,, and it had not
entered my thoughts for years, until I began to summon these memories.

At the end of my first six months that as the duty of the Conference
was to provide churches for all its pastors, I might too late.

Dr.

Lyman Davis, the pastor of the Methodist Protestant Church in Tarrytown,
was very friendly toward me and my ordination become a burden to
the Church if it in East Dennis I was asked to take on, also the
temporary charge of the Congregational Church at Dennis that it
lasted for six and a half years--until I resigned from my East
Dennis church.

During that period, moreover, I not only carried the two churches on
my drawing.

It may interest the Conference to know that Miss Shaw's present
salary equals the combined salaries of the three young men who are
so things were said, and too tried to make it appear proved impossible
to provide a pastorate for me.

I have had official occasion to examine of superannuated ministers. three
young men who had feared I would become a burden were especially
active in the matter of this; and, as they had no sense of humor,
it did not seem incongruous to them to use my ordination as a means
of raising money for men who had already become burdens to the
Church.

When the great night came( majority, voted to ordain me. The ordination
avail was fixed for the following evening, and even the gentlemen
who had most vigorously opposed me were not averse to making the
occasion a profitable one.

The contention had already enormously advertised the Conference,
and the members now helped the good work along by sending forth
widespread announcements of the result.

They also decided that, as the attendance at the service would be very
large, they would take down a collection for the support The on
October 12, 1880) drinking and gambling saloon in East Dennis; which
was rapidly demoralizing's was our boys.

Theoretically, only" soft drinks" were the pulpit. The total cost of
material and furniture was not half so great as the original
estimate had indicated, and we had learned a valuable lesson.
weapon After this we spent very little for labor, but did our own
cleaning, carpet-laying, and the like; and our little church, if I
may be allowed to say thirty years--the campaign for woman suffrage.

I have seen victories here and there, and shall see things in the
pulpit than" the gal."

It was even known to from the Scriptures." An elder more. But when the
ultimate triumph comes--when sold, but the gambling was open, and the
resort was constantly filled with boys of all ages.

There were influences back of this place which came also.

And to the credit of my opponents I must add that, having lost their
fight, they took their defeat in good part and gracefully assisted
in the services.

Sitting in one of the front pews was Mrs. Stiles, the wife of Dr.
Stiles, who was superintendent of the Conference.

She was a dear little old lady of seventy, with a big, maternal
heart alone, me exchange pulpits with the one minister on Cape Cod
broad-minded enough to invite me to preach in his pulpit.

I had done and so, and had then sent him a return invitation.

He was came to my side, offered me her arm, and me to the altar.
"Allah Kerin, it was a mercy your back was not broken," exclaimed the
bashaw.

"I feel sore all over, your highness," said Bosja, ruefully, "and fear
I am seriously injured."

"And the culprit was endeavouring to escape, was he not?" asked the
judge.

"He was, your mightiness, when my soldiers discovered him clinging to
the wall," replied the officer of the soldiers.

"Wallah thaih, it is well said."

The bashaw conferred again with his vizier for a moment, and then,
turning towards the luckless Figgins, who found himself changed from
the plaintiff into the defendant, he said to him sternly--

"And now, unbelieving dog, what have you to say?"

"Only this," the orphan replied, without hesitation; "that that witness
has uttered a tissue of abominable lies."

"I have spoken naught but the truth," exclaimed the unblushing Bosja,
solemnly. "Bashem ustun, upon my head be it."

"Well, let us hear what account you have to give," said the bashaw to
the defendant.

"My account is very simple," said Figgins. "I was playing my flute,
when that Turk insisted on my stopping. I considered I had a right to
do as I liked in my own apartment and refused."

"You had no right to do as you liked."

"What, not in my own chamber that I had paid for?"

"Certainly not."

Mr. Figgins shook his clenched fist fiercely in the air at this
extraordinary declaration.

"There's neither law nor justice here," he cried, indignantly. "In
England----"

"You're not in England, dog," shouted the bashaw, "you're in Turkey."

The orphan felt painfully at that moment that he was.

"I don't care how soon I'm out of such a miserable den of thieves and
rogues," he said.

"What does the fellow say?" demanded the bashaw, who did not quite
understand all the orphan said.

"He says his face will be whitened by the rays of your highness's
wisdom, the like to which he has never before seen," the vizier
interpreted.

"Umph!" growled his superior.

Then addressing himself once more to the defendant, he said--

"Go on."

"Well, in the midst of my practice that fat Turk burst through the
partition of my room, scimitar in hand. The first thing I saw on his
head was my turban, which I lost a week ago. I seized my own
property----"

"Inshallah!" shouted the bashaw, "this fellow is telling the same story
as the other. He is laughing at our beards and making us eat dirt. I'll
hear no more."

"But, your worship----"

"I'll hear no more!" shouted the judge. "I find him guilty on all
points."

"But my flute----"

"Your flute is forfeited."

The orphan uttered a cry of despair.

"My flute that cost me twenty-five pounds only a week since," he wailed
dolefully.

The bashaw pricked up his ears at these words.

A man who could afford to give twenty-five pounds for a flute must be
possessed of property.

The scales of justice quivered whilst he whispered to his vizier--

"This Frank is rich, is he not?"

"Heaven forbid that I should venture to dispute your highness's
opinion. Most of his countrymen are so," the subordinate replied.

"Let us see."

Looking towards the agitated grocer, the bashaw said, in a modified
tone--

"The law pronounces you guilty. Still, in our mercy and clemency, we
incline to show you favour. Your flute, for which it seems you paid
twenty-five pounds, is forfeited; but, for another twenty-five you may
redeem it."

The orphan was dreadfully indignant.

"What!" he cried, "pay twice over for what's my own property? I won't
pay another farthing, you pot-bellied old humbug."

"What does he say?" asked the bashaw of his vizier; "does he consent?"

The interpreter turned slightly green with dismay as he stammered in
reply--

"He expresses himself utterly overpowered by the--the--splendour of
your highness's magnificent condescension; but--a--a--at the same time
he is not at the present moment able to a--avail himself of it."

"You mean to say he has no sufficient funds--is that it?"

"Yes, your highness."

The disappointed bashaw uttered an angry grunt, and looking savagely at
the prisoner, said to him--

"Since you can't pay, you must----"

"I can pay," shouted the orphan, in a furiously indignant tone; "but I
won't."

Consumption sows its seeds broadcast. The life is a hot-bed for the
development of any constitutional and hereditary germs of the
disease.

We have found girls in Piccadilly at midnight who are continually
prostrated by haemorrhage, yet who have no other way of life open,
so struggle on in this awful manner between whiles.

DRINK.--This is an inevitable part of the business. All Confess that
they could never lead their miserable lives if it were not for its
influence.

A girl, who was educated at college, and who had a home in which
was every comfort, but who, when ruined, had fallen even to the
depth of Woolwich "Dusthole," exclaimed to us indignantly--"Do you
think I could ever, ever do this if it weren't for the drink?

I always have to be in drink if I want to sin." No girl has ever come
into our Homes front street-life but has been more or less a prey
to drink.

CRUEL TREATMENT.

--The devotion of these women to their bullies is as remarkable as
the brutality of their bullies is abominable.

Probably the primary cause of the fall of numberless girls of the
lower class, is their great aspiration to the dignity of wifehood;--they
are never "somebody" until they are married, and will link themselves
to any creature, no matter how debased, in the hope of being
ultimately married by him.

This consideration, in addition to their helpless condition when
once character has gone, makes them suffer cruelties which they
would never otherwise endure from the men with whom large numbers
of them live.

One case in illustration of this is that of a girl who was once a
respectable servant, the daughter of a police sergeant.

She was ruined, and shame led her to leave home.

At length she drifted to Woolwich, where she came across a man who
persuaded her to live with him, and for a considerable length of
time she kept him, although his conduct to her was brutal in the
extreme.

The girl living in the next room to her has frequently heard him
knock her head against the wall, and pound it, when he was out of
temper, through her gains of prostitution being less than usual.

He lavished upon her every sort of cruelty and abuse, and at length
she grew so wretched, and was reduced to so dreadful a plight, that she
ceased to attract.

At this he became furious, and pawned all her clothing but one
thin garment of rags. The week before her first confinement he kicked
her black and blue from neck to knees, and she was carried to the police
station in a pool of blood, but; she was so loyal to the wretch
that she refused to appear against him.

She was going to drown herself in desperation, when our Rescue
Officers spoke to her, wrapped their own shawl around her shivering
shoulders, took her home with them, and cared for her.

The baby was born dead-- a tiny, shapeless mass. This state of things
is all too common.

HOPELESSNESS--SURROUNDINGS.--The state of hopelessness and despair
in which these girls live continually, makes them reckless of
consequences, and large numbers commit suicide who are never heard
of.

A West End policeman assured us that the number of prostitute-suicides
was terribly in advance of anything guessed at by the public.

DEPTHS TO WHICH THEY SINK.

--There is Scarcely a lower class of girls to be found than the girls of
Woolwich "Dusthole"--where one of our Rescue Slum Homes is
established.

The women living and following their dreadful business in this
neighbourhood are so degraded that even abandoned men will refuse
to accompany them home.

Soldiers are forbidden to enter the place, or to go down the street,
on pain of twenty-five days' imprisonment; pickets are stationed
at either end to prevent this.

The streets are much cleaner than many of the rooms we have seen.

One public house there is shut up three or four times in a day
sometimes for fear of losing the licence through the terrible brawls
which take place within.

A policeman never goes down this street alone at night--one having
died not long ago from injuries received there --but our two lasses
go unharmed and loved at all hours, spending every other night
always upon the streets.

The girls sink to the "Dusthole" after coming down several grades.

There is but one on record who came there with beautiful clothes, and
this poor girl, when last seen by the officers, was a pauper in
the workhouse infirmary in a wretched condition.

The lowest class of all is the girls who stand at the pier-head--these
sell themselves literally for a bare crust of bread and sleep in the
streets.

Filth and vermin abound to an extent to which no one who has not seen
it can have any idea.

The "Dusthole" is only one, alas of many similar districts in this
highly civilised land.

SICKNESS, FRIENDLESSNESS--DEATH.--In hospitals it is a known fact that
these girls are not treated at all like other cases; they inspire
disgust, and are most frequently discharged before being really
cured.

Scorned by their relations, and ashamed to make their case known even
to those who would help them, unable longer to struggle out on the
streets to earn the bread of shame, there are girls lying in many
a dark hole in this big city positively rotting away, and maintained
by their old companions on the streets.

Many are totally friendless, utterly cast out and left to perish
by relatives and friends.

One of this class came to us, sickened and died, and we buried her,
being her only followers to the grave.

It is a sad story, but one that must not be forgotten, for these women
constitute a large standing army whose numbers no one can calculate.

All estimates that I have seem purely imaginary.

The ordinary figure given for London is from 60,000 to 80,000. This
maybe true if it is meant to include all habitually unchaste women.

It is a monstrous exaggeration if it is meant to apply to those who
make their living solely and habitually by prostitution.

These figures, however, only confuse. We shall have to deal with
hundreds every month, whatever estimate we take.

How utterly unprepared society is for any such systematic reformation
may be seen from the fact that even now at our Homes we are unable
to take in all the girls who apply.

They cannot escape, even if they would, for want of funds whereby to
provide them a way of release.

CHAPTER 7. THE CRIMINALS.

One very important section of the denizens of Darkest England are the
criminals and the semi-criminals. They are more or less predatory,
and are at present shepherded by the police and punished by the
gaoler.

Their numbers cannot be ascertained with very great precision, but
the following figures are taken from the prison returns of 1889:
--
The criminal classes of Great Britain, in round figures, sum up a
total of no less than 90,000 persons, made up as follows: --
Convict prisons contain.. .. .. .. .. .. 11,660 persons Local prisons
contain.. .. .. .. .. .. 20,883 ,, Reformatories for children
convicted of crime .. 1,270 ,, Industrial schools for vagrant and
refractory children .. .. .. .. .. 21,413 ,, Criminal lunatics under
restraint.. .. .. .. 910 ,, Known thieves at large .. .. .. .. ..
.. 14,747 ,, Known receivers of stolen goods .. .. .. .. 1,121 ,,
Suspected persons .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 17,042 ,, ------- Total
89,046 -------
The above does not include the great army of known prostitutes, nor
the keepers and owners of brothels and disorderly houses, as to
whose numbers Government is rigidly silent.

These figures are, however, misleading. They only represent the criminals
actually in gaol on a given day.

The average gaol population in England and Wales, excluding the
convict establishments, was, in 1889, 15,119 but the total number
actually sentenced and imprisoned in local prisons was 153,000, of
whom 25,000 only came on first term sentences; 76,300 of them had
been convicted at least 10 times.

But even if we suppose that the criminal class numbers no more than
90,000, of whom only 35,000 persons are at large, it is still a
large enough section of humanity to compel attention. 90,000 criminals
represents a wreckage whose cost to the community is very imperfectly
estimated when we add up the cost of the prisons, even if we add
to them the whole cost of the police.

The police have so many other duties besides the shepherding of
criminals that it is unfair to saddle the latter with the whole of
the cost of the constabulary.

The cost of prosecution and maintenance of criminals, and the expense
of the police involves an annual outlay of #4,437,000.

This, however, is small compared with the tax and toll which
this predatory horde inflicts upon the community on which it is
quartered.

To the loss caused by the actual picking and stealing must be added
that of the unproductive labour of nearly 65,000 adults.

Dependent upon these criminal adults must be at least twice as many
women and children, so that it is probably an under-estimate to say
that this list of criminals and semi-criminals represents a population
of at least 200,000, who all live more or less at the expense of
society.

Every year, in the Metropolitan district alone, 66,100 persons are
arrested, of whom 444 are arrested for trying to commit suicide--life
having become too unbearable a burden.

This immense population is partially, no doubt, bred to prison, the
same as other people are bred to the army and to the bar.

The hereditary criminal is by no means confined to India, although
it is only in that country that they have the engaging simplicity
to describe themselves frankly in the census returns.

But it is recruited constantly from the outside. In many cases
this is due to sheer starvation.

Fathers of the Church have laid down the law that a man who is in peril
of death from hunger is entitled to take bread wherever he can
find it to keep body and soul together.

That proposition is not embodied in our jurisprudence.
Absolute despair drives many a man into the ranks of the criminal
class, who would never have fallen into the category of criminal
convicts if adequate provision had been made for the rescue of those
drifting to doom.

When once he has fallen, circumstances seem to combine to keep him there.
As wounded and sickly stags are gored to death by their fellows,
so the unfortunate who bears the prison brand is hunted from pillar
to post, until he despairs of ever regaining his position, and
oscillates between one prison and another for the rest of his days.

I gave in a preceding page an account of how a man, after trying
in vain to get work, fell before the temptation to steal in order
to escape starvation.

Here is the sequel of that man's story.
After he had stolen he ran away, and thus describes his experiences:
-- 
"To fly was easy.

To get away from the scene required very little ingenuity, but the
getting away from one suffering brought another.

A straight look from a stranger; a quick step behind me, sent a
chill through every nerve.

The cravings of hunger had been satisfied, but it was the cravings of
conscience that were clamorous now.

It was easy to get away from the earthly consequences of sin, but from
the fact-- never. And yet it was the compulsion of circumstances that
made me a criminal.

It was neither from inward viciousness or choice, and how bitterly
did I cast reproach on society for allowing such an alternative to
offer itself--'to Steal or Starve,' but there was another alternative
that here offered itself--either give myself up, or go on with the
life of crime.

I chose the former.

I had travelled over 100 miles to get away from the scene of
my theft, and I now find myself outside the station house at a
place where I had put in my boyhood days.

"How many times when a lad, with wondering eyes, and a heart stirred
with childhood's pure sympathy, I had watched the poor waifs from
time to time led within its doors.

It was my turn now.

I entered the charge room, and with business-like precision disclosed
my errand, viz.

that I wished to surrender myself for having committed a felony.

My story was doubted. Question followed question, and confirmation must
be waited. 'Why had I surrendered?' 'I was a rum'un.' 'Cracked.'
'More fool than rogue.'

'He will be sorry when he mounts the wheel.' These and such like
remarks were handed round concerning me.

An hour passed by.

An inspector enters, and announces the receipt of a telegram. 'It
is all right. You can put him down.'

    And turning to me, he said, 'They will send for you on Monday,'
    and then I passed into the inner ward, and a cell.

The door closed with a harsh, grating clang, and I was left to face
the most clamorous accuser of all-- my own interior self'
"Monday morning, the door opened, and a complacent detective stood
before me.

Who can tell the feeling as the handcuffs closed round my wrists, and we
started for town. As again the charge was entered, and the passing
of another night in the cell; then the morning of the day arrived. The
gruff, harsh 'Come on' of the gaoler roused me, and the next moment
I found myself in the prison van, gazing through the crevices of
the floor, watching the stones flying as it were from beneath our
feet.

Soon the court-house was reached, and hustled into a common cell, I
found myself amongst a crowd of boys and men, all bound for the
'dock.'

One by one the names are called, and the crowd is gradually thinning down,
when the announcement of my own name fell on my startled ear, and I
found myself stumbling up the stairs, and finding myself in daylight
and the 'dock.'

What a terrible ordeal it was.

The ceremony was brief enough; 'Have you anything to say?' 'Don't
interrupt his Worship; prisoner!' 'Give over talking!' 'A month's
hard labour.' This is about all I heard, or at any rate realised,
until a vigorous push landed me into the presence of the officer
who booked the sentence, and then off I went to gaol.

I need not linger over the formalities of the reception.

A nightmare seemed to have settled upon me as I passed into the interior
of the correctional.

"I resigned my name, and I seemed to die to myself for henceforth.
332B disclosed my identity to myself and others.

"Through all the weeks that followed I was like one in a dream.
Meal times, resting hours, as did every other thing, came with
clock-like precision.

At times I thought my mind had gone--so dull, so callous, so weary
appeared the organs of the brain. The harsh orders of the gaolers;
the droning of the chaplain in the chapel; the enquiries of the
chief warder or the governor in their periodical visits,--all seemed
so meaningless.

"As the day of my liberation drew near, the horrid conviction that
circumstances would perhaps compel me to return to prison haunted
me, and so helpless did I feel at the prospects that awaited me
outside, that I dreaded release, which seemed but the facing of
an unsympathetic world.

The day arrived, and, strange as it may sound, it was with regret that
I left my cell.

It had become my home, and no home waited me outside.

"How utterly crushed I felt; feelings of companionship had gone out
to my unfortunate fellow-prisoners, whom I had seen daily, but the sound
of whose voices I had never heard, whilst outside friendships were
dead, and companionships were for ever broken, and I felt as an
outcast of society, with the mark of 'gaol bird' upon me, that I
must cover my face, and stand aside and cry 'unclean.'

Such were my feelings.

"The morning of discharge came, and I am once more on the streets.
What an illigant ould
thafe it is," said the diver, when he had waited some time for a reply.

"Why don't ye answer, ye dirrty ould spalpeen?" he demanded, after a
pause. "Be gorra, av ye don't sphake, I'll give ye one wid my twig."

Saying which, he flourished his shillelagh before the slipper
merchant's face, and then gave him a smart tap on his head.

The grave old Turk then found his tongue, and the reply was such a
startler, that the four travellers were knocked off their moral
equilibrium.

"Tare and 'ounds, ye blackyard omadhauns! Ye thavin' Saxin vaggybones!
ave ye'd only thread on the tail av me coat, so as to give me a
gintlemanly excuse for blackin' yer squintin' eyes, I'd knock yez into
next Monday week, the blessed lot av yez!"

The four visitors stared at each other in wonder.

They had not a word to say for themselves.

No wonder that it took their breath away.

The Irish diver was the first to find his tongue.

"By the blessed piper that played before Moses, here's an Irish Turk!"

"Stop that!" ejaculated the slipper merchant; "av ye call me names,
I'll have a go at yez av ye was as big as a house."

"Ye're Paddy from Cork," retorted the diver.

"Niver," protested the merchant, stoutly.

"Get along wid yez," retorted the diver, "ye Mahommedan Mormonite; now
I'll take short odds to any amount up to a farden that that brogue came
from Galway. Tell the truth, and shame the ould gintleman as shall be
nameless."

The Turk had an inward struggle, and then he confessed. He was an
Irishman, settled for some years in Turkey.

"But devil a word must ye say. Ye'll spoil me shop entirely," he said,
"av the folks hereabout takes me for a Christian gintleman, and I shall
be kilt intirely."


CHAPTER LXVIII.

PADDY MAHMOUD PLAYS THE PASHA--LOCAL STATISTICS--VISIT TO THE
KONAKI--HOSPITALITY VERSUS AL KORAN.


The Irish Turk contrived, after some talk, that our friends should
procure an entry into the palace of the pasha.

"Back stairs infloonce, me boys," said the Irish Turk, with a wink, "is
an illigant institooshn, and is jist as privlint here, sorrs, as it is
in St. James's or at the castle."

"How do you work it?"

"I have my own particular pals, which shall be nameless, at the pasha's
palace."

"Officers?"

The Irish Turk looked very demure and replied--

"Not exactly officers; officeresses, ye understand."

"You're a terrible Turk, Paddy," laughed young Jack.

"When shall we be able to get over the palace?" demanded Harry
Girdwood.

"Come to me in the course of to-morrow afternoon," said the Irish Turk.

"We will."

                  *          *          *          *

This arranged, they strolled through the bazaar, trading and bartering
with the dealers, and making an odd collection of purchases, to take
home as curiosities.

But of all the curiosities, the most remarkable was perhaps a pair of
real Egyptian mummies, which they discovered in the possession of a
shrewd and greedy old Arab.

"We shall have quite an extensive museum," said Jack.

"Blessed if I care to see a brace o' stiff uns on board," growled Nat
Cringle.

"We shall not for the present take them on board," said Jack; "we shall
first take them to our rooms. We shall find some use for the mummies,
eh, Harry?"

"I believe you, my boy," said Harry. "We'll name the mummies Mole and
the orphan. Ha, ha!"

Well, that same afternoon, as agreed upon, young Jack and Harry
Girdwood presented themselves at the residence of the Irish Turk, Paddy
Mahmoud Ben Flannigan, as the boys had christened him.

They had got themselves up _à la Turc_.

Tinker and his attendant Bogey were also suitably attired.

They found the Irishman seated upon the floor with his legs under him.

He arose as the guests entered, and advanced to greet them politely.

"Make yourselves at home, gentlemen," he said, "and say what'll ye take
before we get along."

Jack tipped the wink to his companion.

"I'd like a little nip of something to cure the belly-ache," he
answered slily.

"Ye can have that same," responded their host.

He went to a cupboard, and produced a stumpy, but capacious bottle, and
three glasses.

"Whatever is that?" said Harry, in affected surprise.

"A drop of the crater," responded Paddy Mahmoud, pouring it out.

"Here's your health," said Harry Girdwood.

The two lads nodded at their host, and sipped.

The Irish Turk tossed off his whisky at a gulp.

"When shall you be ready to go up to the palace?" asked Jack.

"All in good time," returned the host. "In the first place, it is not
called the palace."

"What then?"

"The Konaki."

"Konaki!"

"That's it. Now I'll show you exactly how to conduct yourselves when
you are presented at court," he said.

Three servants entered, carrying three pipes, each of the same size,
and each having jewelled amber mouth-pieces.

The servants drew themselves up like automatons, each placing his right
hand on his heart.

The next moment they were inhaling their first draught of some
wonderful tobacco, the host keeping up the traditional Turkish custom
of puffing half a minute or so before the guests.

When they had puffed away in silence for some little time, the servants
returned.

One of them carried a crimson napkin, richly embroidered with gold,
thrown over his left shoulder.

And others carried a coffee tray, upon which were cups of elegant
filagree work.

Each of the guests were presented with a cup of coffee--not very nice
according to our notions, being thick, unstrained and unsweetened.

Yet the Turks are considered the only people who really understand the
art of making coffee.

This disposed of, the servants retired.

"Now," says the host, "that's just what ye'll have to do when you go up
to the Konaki, to be, so to speak, presented at court. When you go
visiting his excellency the pasha on any business, no matter how
pressing it may be, you mustn't speak of it until the pipes and the
coffee have been got through. You have only to observe this little
customary bit of etiquette, and all will go on merrily as a marriage
bell."

"Have you ever seen the pasha yourself?" asked Jack.

"Often."

"What's he like?"

"Every inch a gentleman."

This rather surprised them.

"Now let's come off, and you shall see over the Konaki."


CHAPTER LXIX.

THE JOYS OF THE SERAGLIO--A GROUP OF PEEPING THOMASES--THE CIRCASSIAN
SLAVES--TINKER AND BOGEY ARE IN FOR IT--THE ALARM--ATTEMPTED
RESCUE--AWAY WITH THEM--THE IRISHMAN TELLS A FEW WHITE ONES TO A
PURPOSE.


The slipper merchant had selected a favourable moment for their visit
to the Konaki.

The pasha--or to speak more correctly, the pasha's deputy, for it was
the deputy that had imposed upon the poor orphan--was absent from the
house temporarily, and so they were able to walk about whither they
listed, thanks to the backstairs influence of which their friend and
guide had boasted.

The head of the pasha's household was the person to whom they owed this
unusual privilege.

There was not a great deal to see in the Konaki now that they were
there, and their visit would probably have been cut very short had they
not been attracted by sounds of distant music just as they were upon
the point of leaving.

"What's that?" said Jack.

"That's from the seraglio," returned their conductor; "some Circassian
girls that have just been sent as a present to the pasha are very
clever dancers, it is said."

Jack pricked up his ears at this.

"Come on," he said, moving forward briskly.

"To this seraglio?"

"Aye."

"Why, you rash boy," said the Irish Turk, with a frightened look, "do
you know what you are talking about?"

"Well, yes, I think so," said Jack; "dancing Circassian girls and the
seraglio was the topic of the conversation, unless I am wandering in my
mind."

"Faith, ye must be mad," said the Irishman, gravely; "why, they'd think
hanging too good for any man that even looked at the harem."

"So should I," returned Jack; "I've no wish to be hanged; it's too good
for me. Come on."

"Don't be foolish; it's death, if we're caught."

"All right," said Jack, cheerfully; "it's sure then that we mustn't be
caught, but I don't mean to miss the chance all the same."

The Irishman resisted stoutly.

But Jack was more obstinate than he was, and so the Irishman was forced
to yield a point.

"I know where there's a gallery that overlooks the harem, and you can
see all the fun of the fair without being observed."

"You seem to know the place very well," said Jack.

"Very."

"But of course you have never been to this identical gallery before?"
said Jack, innocently.

"Never--never."

His eagerness to impress this upon them told its own tale.

"I should think that's true, Jack," said Harry, demurely.

"Oh, yes, quite," said Jack, winking at Harry.

The Irishman led the way along a paved passage, at the end of which was
an arched entrance to an apartment, closed off only by a heavy curtain.

"You see that curtain?" whispered their guide.

"Yes."

"That's the harem."

"Come on, then," said Jack, eagerly.

"Stop, stop!" exclaimed the Irishman. "The other side of the curtain
are two----"

Before he could complete the sentence, the curtain was dragged aside,
and two armed negroes appeared.

Their appearance was sudden and startling.

Each carried a drawn sword, a scimitar of formidable size.

They looked about as ugly customers as you would wish to see.

"Two eunuchs," whispered the Irishman, "they are guarding the seraglio.
Come away."

"Ugly enough for heathen gods," whispered Harry Girdwood.

The two eunuchs stood like statues on guard.

The slipper merchant said something to them in Turkish which appeared
to satisfy them.

"Massa Jack," whispered Tinker, who was one of the party, tugging at
his young master's sleeve, "Massa Jack."

"What now?"

"Dat one ob de beasts what chuck de pusson in de water alive in de
sack, sar."

"What!" ejaculated Harry Girdwood.

"Fack, Massa Harry," said Tinker, stoutly. "Guess I know dat ugly brack
niggar, sar, a tousan' mile off--beast!"

"Come on. Don't appear to notice them," said the Irishman. "It's
awkward work now. If they had half a suspicion, they would drop on us
right and left, and not leave a limb on either one of our blessed
bodies."

He led the way until they came to a gallery that overlooked the
seraglio.

Their leader now warned them to keep silent.

In the chamber below were about a dozen Turkish ladies, all unveiled.

They were all gorgeously attired, and lolling about in indolent
attitudes, as if life were an indescribable bore to them.

Upon a square fringed carpet in the middle of the room a Circassian
girl of rare beauty and perfect symmetry was gliding through a graceful
dance, to a low, melodious measure, which another girl of her own
country was chanting.

The dance resembled nothing that Jack and Harry had seen before.

As she turned round, the shawl she waved was made to describe a series
of circles.

And then, as she came to a sudden stop, it fell around her in graceful
folds and she looked like a very beautiful sculptured figure.

But before you could fairly admire her graceful form and beauteous
face, she had bounded off again in the mazy dance, to the intense
gratification of the idle lookers-on.

"What do you think of that?" whispered the Irishman.

"Lovely," returned Jack, enthusiastically.

"Beautiful," added Harry Girdwood. "What would little Emily say, Jack,
if she knew you were looking with loving eyes at that little beauty?"

The mention of little Emily's name made Jack silent for a minute or
two.

Presently he asked--

"Are these professional performers?"

"The dancer and the singer are two out of three Circassian slaves that
have been sent to the pasha as a present during his journey. He will be
pleased with the new acquisition when he returns, although one has met
an untimely end."

"Slaves! Is it possible?" said young Jack.

"Rather, my boy."

"What will they do with these slaves?"

"Various things. Perhaps keep them to amuse the ladies of the harem, as
you see now; perhaps make them beasts of burden; perhaps make more
wives of them. His excellency is not particular to a wife or two."

"He's a beast!" said young Jack; "and I should like to kick him."

"Gently, gently; it's the system of the country, dear boys, nothing
more."

"But," said Jack, "when you speak of the Circassian girl being sent as
a present to the pasha, do you mean the real pasha or the deputy? For
this Turk is the one that cheated the poor orphan out of his money."

"This is only the deputy; I mean the pasha himself," returned the Irish
Turk. "The deputy would like to appropriate the slaves himself."

"Do you think so?"

"I know it, and he does not mind what you would call murder now and
then."

"Perhaps that would account for what we saw in the bay, for the
horrible business with the sack."

"More than likely," said the Irish Turk, gravely. "But a slave, more or
less, even if it's a lovely girl, doesn't count for much in these
parts."

The boys gave a shudder.

They were not used to hearing murder discussed in such a cold-blooded
fashion.

"Tinker," said Jack, by way of changing the topic suddenly, "do you
think that you or Bogey could dance like that girl?"

"Go an' dance like dat," he said contemptuously. "Me an' dat nigger
dance a lot better, sar. Bogey!"

"Wall!"

"Over wid you."

And then, to the surprise and dismay of all the rest, the two darkeys
vaulted over the balustrade and dropped into the room beneath.

Had a bombshell fallen into the midst of the ladies of the harem, they
could not have been more surprised.

There was a half-stifled shriek from one, and they all flew into a
corner, where they stood huddled up together for protection.

Model Suburban Villages Section 3. The Poor Man's Bank Section
4. The Poor Man's Lawyer Section 5.

Intelligence Department Section 6.

Co-operation in General Section 7.

Matrimonial Bureau Section 8. Whitechapel-by-the-sea

CHAPTER 7. Can it be done, and how?

Section 1. The Credentials of the Salvation Army Section 2. How much
will it cost?

Section 3. Some advantages stated Section 4. Some objections met Section
5. Recapitulation

CHAPTER 8. A Pratical Conclusion

IN DARKEST ENGLAND

PART 1. THE DARKNESS.

CHAPTER 1. WHY "DARKEST ENGLAND"?

This summer the attention of the civilised world has been arrested
by the story which Mr.

Stanley has told of Darkest Africa and his journeyings across the
heart of the Lost Continent. In all that spirited narrative of
heroic endeavour, nothing has so much impressed the imagination,
as his description of the immense forest, which offered an almost
impenetrable barrier to his advance.

The intrepid explorer, in his own phrase, "marched, tore, ploughed,
and cut his way for one hundred and sixty days through this inner
womb of the true tropical forest."

The mind of man with difficulty endeavours to realise this immensity of
wooded wilderness, covering a territory half as large again as the whole
of France, where the rays of the sun never penetrate, where in the
dark, dank air, filled with the steam of the heated morass, human
beings dwarfed into pygmies and brutalised into cannibals lurk and
live and die.

Mr Stanley vainly endeavours to bring home to us the full horror
of that awful gloom.

He says:

Take a thick Scottish copse dripping with rain; imagine this to be
mere undergrowth nourished under the impenetrable shade of ancient
trees ranging from 100 to 180 feet high; briars and thorns abundant;
lazy creeks meandering through the depths of the jungle, and sometimes
a deep affluent of a great river.

Imagine this forest and jungle in all stages of decay and growth, rain
pattering on you every other day of the year; an impure atmosphere
with its dread consequences, fever and dysentery; gloom throughout
the day and darkness almost palpable throughout the night; and then
if you can imagine such a forest extending the entire distance from
Plymouth to Peterhead, you will have a fair idea of some of the
inconveniences endured by us in the Congo forest.

The denizens of this region are filled with a conviction that the forest
is endless--interminable.

In vain did Mr. Stanley and his companions endeavour to convince them
that outside the dreary wood were to be found sunlight, pasturage
and peaceful meadows.

They replied in a manner that seemed to imply that we must be strange
creatures to suppose that it would be possible for any world to
exist save their illimitable forest.

"No," they replied, shaking their heads compassionately, and pitying
our absurd questions, "all like this," and they moved their hand
sweepingly to illustrate that the world was all alike, nothing but
trees, trees and trees--great trees rising as high as an arrow shot
to the sky, lifting their crowns intertwining their branches,
pressing and crowding one against the other, until neither the
sunbeam nor shaft of light can penetrate it.

"We entered the forest," says Mr. Stanley, "with confidence; forty
pioneers in front with axes and bill hooks to clear a path through the
obstructions, praying that God and good fortune would lead us."
But before the conviction of the forest dwellers that the forest
was without end, hope faded out of the hearts of the natives of
Stanley's company.

The men became sodden with despair, preaching was useless to move their
brooding sullenness, their morbid gloom.

The little religion they knew was nothing more than legendary lore,
and in their memories there dimly floated a story of a land which
grew darker and darker as one travelled towards the end of the earth
and drew nearer to the place where a great serpent lay supine and
coiled round the whole world.

Ah!

then the ancients must have referred to this, where the light is so
ghastly, and the woods are endless, and are so still and solemn and
grey; to this oppressive loneliness, amid so much life, which is so
chilling to the poor distressed heart; and the horror grew darker
with their fancies; the cold of early morning, the comfortless grey
of dawn, the dead white mist, the ever-dripping tears of the dew,
the deluging rains, the appalling thunder bursts and the echoes,
and the wonderful play of the dazzling lightning.

And when the night comes with its thick palpable darkness, and they
lie huddled in their damp little huts, and they hear the tempest
overhead, and the howling of the wild winds, the grinding an groaning
of the storm-tost trees, and the dread sounds of the falling giants,
and the shock of the trembling earth which sends their hearts with
fitful leaps to their throats, and the roaring and a rushing as of
a mad overwhelming sea-- oh, then the horror is intensified!

When the march has begun once again, and the files are slowly moving
through the woods, they renew their morbid broodings, and ask
themselves: How long is this to last?

Is the joy of life to end thus? Must we jog on day after day in this
cheerless gloom and this joyless duskiness, until we stagger and
fall and rot among the toads?

Then they disappear into the woods by twos, and threes, and sixes;
and after the caravan has passed they return by the trail, some to
reach Yambuya and upset the young officers with their tales of woe
and war; some to fall sobbing under a spear-thrust; some to wander
and stray in the dark mazes of the woods, hopelessly lost; and some
to be carved for the cannibal feast.

And those who remain compelled to it by fears of greater danger,
mechanically march on, a prey to dread and weakness.

That is the forest. But what of its denizens?

They are comparatively few; only some hundreds of thousands living
in small tribes from ten to thirty miles apart, scattered over an
area on which ten thousand million trees put out the sun from a
region four times as wide as Great Britain.

Of these pygmies there are two kinds; one a very degraded specimen
with ferretlike eyes, close-set nose, more nearly approaching the
baboon than was supposed to be possible, but very human; the other
very handsome, with frank open innocent features, very prepossessing.

They are quick and intelligent, capable of deep affection and gratitude,
showing remarkable industry and patience.

A pygmy boy of eighteen worked with consuming zeal; time with him
was too precious to waste in talk.

His mind seemed ever concentrated on work. Mr.

Stanley said: --

"When I once stopped him to ask him his name, his face seemed to
say, 'Please don't stop me.

I must finish my task.'
"All alike, the baboon variety and the handsome innocents, are
cannibals.

They are possessed with a perfect mania for meat. We were obliged
to bury our dead in the river, lest the bodies should be exhumed
and eaten, even when they had died from smallpox."

Upon the pygmies and all the dwellers of the forest has descended
a devastating visitation in the shape of the ivory raiders of
civilisation.

The race that wrote the Arabian Nights, built Bagdad and Granada,
and invented Algebra, sends forth men with the hunger for gold in
their hearts, and Enfield muskets in their hands, to plunder and
to slay.

They exploit the domestic affections of the forest dwellers in order
to strip them of all they possess in the world.

That has been going on for years. It is going on to-day.

It has come to be regarded as the natural and normal law of
existence. Of the religion of these hunted pygmies Mr.

Stanley tells us nothing, perhaps because there is nothing to tell.

But an earlier traveller, Dr.

                  Kraff, says that one of these tribes, by name Doko, had some notion
of a Supreme Being, to whom, under the name of Yer, they sometimes
addressed prayers in moments of sadness or terror.

In these prayers they say; "Oh Yer, if Thou dost really exist why
dost Thou let us be slaves?

We ask not for food or clothing, for we live on snakes, ants, and
mice.

Thou hast made us, wherefore dost Thou let us be trodden down?"

It is a terrible picture, and one that has engraved itself deep on
the heart of civilisation.

                  But while brooding over the awful presentation of life as it exists
in the vast African forest, it seemed to me only too vivid a picture
of many parts of our own land.

As there is a darkest Africa is there not also a darkest England?

Civilisation, which can breed its own barbarians, does it not also
breed its own pygmies?

May we not find a parallel at our own doors, and discover within a
stone's throw of our cathedrals and palaces similar horrors to those
which Stanley has found existing in the great Equatorial forest?

The more the mind dwells upon the subject, the closer the analogy appears.
The ivory raiders who brutally traffic in the unfortunate denizens
of the forest glades, what are they but the publicans who flourish
on the weakness of our poor?

The two tribes of savages the human baboon and the handsome dwarf,
who will not speak lest it impede him in his task, may be accepted
as the two varieties who are continually present with us--the
vicious, lazy lout, and the toiling slave.

They, too, have lost all faith of life being other than it is and has
been.

As in Africa, it is all trees trees, trees with no other world conceivable;
so is it here--it is all vice and poverty and crime.

To many the world is all slum, with the Workhouse as an intermediate
purgatory before the grave.

And just as Mr.

Stanley's Zanzibaris lost faith, and could only be induced to plod on
in brooding sullenness of dull despair, so the most of our social
reformers, no matter how cheerily they may have started off, with
forty pioneers swinging blithely their axes as they force their way
in to the wood, soon become depressed and despairing.

Who can battle against the ten thousand million trees?

Who can hope to make headway against the innumerable adverse
conditions which doom the dweller in Darkest England to eternal and
immutable misery?

What wonder is it that many of the warmest hearts and enthusiastic
workers feel disposed to repeat the lament of the old English
chronicler, who, speaking of the evil days which fell upon our
forefathers in the reign of Stephen, said "It seemed to them as if
God and his Saints were dead."

An analogy is as good as a suggestion; it becomes wearisome when
it is pressed too far.

But before leaving it, think for a moment how close the parallel
is, and how strange it is that so much interest should be excited
by a narrative of human squalor and human heroism in a distant
continent, while greater squalor and heroism not less magnificent
may be observed at our very doors.

The Equatorial Forest traversed by Stanley resembles that Darkest
England of which I have to speak, alike in its vast extent--both
stretch, in Stanley's phrase, "as far as from Plymouth to Peterhead;"
its monotonous darkness, its malaria and its gloom, its dwarfish
de-humanized inhabitants, the slavery to which they are subjected,
their privations and their misery.

That which sickens the stoutest heart, and causes many of our bravest
and best to fold their hands in despair, is the apparent impossibility
of doing more than merely to peck at the outside of the endless
tangle of monotonous undergrowth; to let light into it, to make a
road clear through it, that shall not be immediately choked up by
the ooze of the morass and the luxuriant parasitical growth of the
forest--who dare hope for that?

At present, alas, it would seem as though no one dares even to hope!

It is the great Slough of Despond of our time.

And what a slough it is no man can gauge who has not waded therein, as
some of us have done, up to the very neck for long years.

Talk about Dante's Hell, and all the horrors and cruelties of the
torture-chamber of the lost!

The man who walks with open eyes and with bleeding heart through
the shambles of our civilisation needs no such fantastic images of
the poet to teach him horror.

Often and often, when I have seen the young and the poor and the
helpless go down before my eyes into the morass, trampled underfoot
by beasts of prey in human shape that haunt these regions, it seemed
as if God were no longer in His world, but that in His stead reigned
a fiend, merciless as Hell, ruthless as the grave.

Hard it is, no doubt, to read in Stanley's pages of the slave-traders
coldly arranging for the surprise of a village, the capture of the
inhabitants, the massacre of those who resist, and the violation
of all the women; but the stony streets of London, if they could
but speak, would tell of tragedies as awful, of ruin as complete,
of ravishments as horrible, as if we were in Central Africa; only
the ghastly devastation is covered, corpselike, with the artificialities
and hypocrisies of modern civilisation.

The lot of a negress in the Equatorial Forest is not, perhaps, a
very happy one, but is it so very much worse than that of many a
pretty orphan girl in our Christian capital?

We talk about the brutalities of the dark ages, and we
profess to shudder as we read in books of the shameful exaction
of the rights of feudal superior.

And yet here, beneath our very eyes, in our theatres, in our
restaurants, and in many other places, unspeakable though it be but
to name it, the same hideous abuse flourishes unchecked.

A young penniless girl, if she be pretty, is often hunted from
pillar to post by her employers, confronted always by the
alternative--Starve or Sin.

And when once the poor girl has consented to buy the right to earn
her living by the sacrifice of her virtue, then she is treated as
a slave and an outcast by the very men who have ruined her.

Her word becomes unbelievable, her life an ignominy, and she is swept
downward ever downward, into the bottomless perdition of prostitution.

                  But there, even in the lowest depths, excommunicated by Humanity
and outcast from God, she is far nearer the pitying heart of the
One true Saviour than all the men who forced her down, aye, and
than all the Pharisees and Scribes who stand silently by while these
Fiendish wrongs are perpetrated before their very eyes.

The blood boils with impotent rage at the sight of these enormities,
callously inflicted, and silently borne by these miserable victims.

Nor is it only women who are the victims, although their fate is
the most tragic.

Those firms which reduce sweating to a fine art, who systematically
and deliberately defraud the workman of his pay, who grind the faces
of the poor, and who rob the widow and the orphan, and who for a
pretence make great professions of public spirit and philanthropy,
these men nowadays are sent to Parliament to make laws for the
people.

The old prophets sent them to Hell--but we have changed all that.

They send their victims to Hell, and are rewarded by all that wealth
can do to make their lives comfortable.

Read the House of Lords' Report on the Sweating System, and ask if
any African slave system, making due allowance for the superior
civilisation, and therefore sensitiveness, of the victims, reveals
more misery.

Darkest England, like Darkest Africa, reeks with malaria.

The foul and fetid breath of our slums is almost as poisonous as that of
the African swamp.

Fever is almost as chronic there as on the Equator. Every year thousands
of children are killed off by what is called defects of our sanitary
system.

They are in reality starved and poisoned, and all that can be said
is that, in many cases, it is better for them that they were taken
away from the trouble to come.

Just as in Darkest Africa it is only a part of the evil and misery
that comes from the superior race who invade the forest to enslave
and massacre its miserable inhabitants, so with us, much of the
misery of those whose lot we are considering arises from their own
habits.

Drunkenness and all manner of uncleanness, moral and physical,
abound.
Have you ever watched by the bedside of a man in delirium tremens?

Multiply the sufferings of that one drunkard by the hundred thousand,
and you have some idea of what scenes are being witnessed in all
our great cities at this moment.

As in Africa streams intersect the forest in every direction, so
the gin-shop stands at every corner with its River of the Water of
Death flowing seventeen hours out of the twenty-four for the
destruction of the people.

A population sodden with drink, steeped in vice, eaten up by every social
and physical malady, these are the denizens of Darkest England
amidst whom my life has been spent, and to whose rescue I would
now summon all that is best in the manhood and womanhood of our land.

But this book is no mere lamentation of despair. For Darkest
England, as for Darkest Africa, there is a light beyond.

I think I see my way out, a way by which these wretched ones may
escape from the gloom of their miserable existence into a higher and
happier life.

Long wandering in the Forest of the Shadow of Death at out doors,
has familiarised me with its horrors; but while the realisation is
a vigorous spur to action it has never been so oppressive as to
extinguish hope.

Mr. Stanley never succumbed to the terrors which oppressed his
followers.

He had lived in a larger life, and knew that the forest, though
long, was not interminable.

Every step forward brought him nearer his destined goal, nearer to the
light of the sun, the clear sky, and the rolling uplands of the grazing
land.

Therefore he did not despair.

The Equatorial Forest was, after all, a mere corner of one quarter of
the world.

In the knowledge of the light outside, in the confidence begotten
by past experience of successful endeavour, he pressed forward; and
when the 160 days' struggle was over, he and his men came out into
a pleasant place where the land smiled with peace and plenty, and
their hardships and hunger were forgotten in the joy of a great
deliverance.

So I venture to believe it will be with us. But the end is not yet.
We are still in the depths of the depressing gloom.

It is in no spirit of light-heartedness that this book is sent forth
into the world as if it was written some ten years ago.

If this were the first time that this wail of hopeless misery had
sounded on our ears the matter would have been less serious.

It is because we have heard it so often that the case is so desperate.

thought Jack.

They flashed the light just then upon the objects of their search.

Two huge sacks lay upon the floor.

Jack but imperfectly discerned what they were; but a sickening dread
stole over him, as the two eunuchs raised one of the sacks from the
floor, and bearing it to the window, while its contents writhed and
struggled desperately, hurled it out.

A stifled groan.

A shriek.

A splash.

Jack could hear no more.

He was about to dart out from his hiding-place upon those black-hearted
wretches, when a third person stepped into the chamber.

He said something to the two men--a few sharp words in an authoritative
tone--and they retired.

Jack recognised the voice in an instant.

It was Osmond.

"What is he up to now?" muttered Jack, to himself.

A scene of intense excitement followed.

The Turk unfastened the cord which fastened the neck of the second
sack, and dragged it open.

Then, raising the sack on end, he proceeded hastily to drag it down,
revealing in the dim light the well-remembered form of one of the
Circassian girls.

"Lolo," said Osmond, "I come to give you one last chance."

"I defy and despise you!" said the girl.

"Reflect."

"I have."

"You know well, as I have seen again and again by your looks, that I do
not hate you----"

"Would you have me love the murderer of my sister?"

"Silence, slave!"

"I fear not your menaces," retorted the brave girl; "you must have seen
that. The triumph is yours now--mine is to come."

"When?"

"Hereafter. Murder is against your creed as it is against mine. Do your
worst."

Jack listened.

Osmond seized the girl by the wrist.

But she twisted himself free from his clutch without any particular
effort.

Thereupon the Turk, with a growl of rage, drew his sword, and would
have cut her down.

But Jack could stand no more.

Bounding forward from his hiding-place, he seized the uplifted hand and
wrenched the sword from his grasp.

Then, without a word, Jack struck the man with the flat of his sword
upon the back of the head.

The Turk sank to the ground with a hollow groan.

It was all so momentary that the beautiful Circassian girl looked on as
one in a dream.

Hearing footsteps now, Jack ran to the doorway and peered out.

"Quick!" exclaimed Jack. "Lend me a hand, or we are lost."

She could not understand his words, but his meaning was plain enough.

They pulled the body into the sack as quickly as possible.

Then they hastily tied the cord around the neck of it.

This done, Jack extinguished the lamp.

There was no time to be lost.

He took the girl by the hand, and pulled her back into the nook where
he had been hiding, just as the two villainous eunuchs entered the
chamber.

The two eunuchs came slowly along the corridor.

Finding the place, as they thought, deserted, they simply raised the
sack from the ground, thinking the body of the young Circassian girl
was in it, and bore it to the opening.

One swing and over it went.

As it fell, a hollow groan came from the sack.

The two men stared at each other aghast, and looked over the opening.

But before they could utter a word, a stealthy form had crept up behind
them, and with a vigorous drive, hurled them both over after the sack.

A wild, despairing yell, and the waters closed over these wholesale
butchers.


CHAPTER LXXI.

LOLO'S GRATITUDE AND JACK'S DELIGHT--THE SIGNAL--UNEXPECTED TURN OF
LUCK--A FAMILIAR VOICE--WHO IS IT?--"SURELY! NEVER!"--READ AND LEARN.


"That's a good job done!" said Jack, looking after the wretches he had
pushed over.

The fair Circassian burst into tears now that the peril was over.

Falling upon her knees, she seized Jack's hands and pressed them to her
lips.

She poured out a long string of thanks in the most eloquent language.

Although the language was so far wasted upon Jack, he could not fail to
comprehend her meaning.

"There, there," said Jack, squeezing her hand in reply to her caresses,
"don't take on so, my dear girl. The danger's over now."

But was it?

They had yet to get away.

Jack was no worse off than when in his prison ten feet higher up, it is
true.

But what of Lolo?

How was she to manage?

While he was cogitating over this he heard a shrill whistle from below.

He ran to the window.

"Hist, Jack!" cried a familiar voice from the water.

"Hullo!"

"Drop down, Jack," returned Harry's voice. "Here I am, in a boat, as
snug as a domestic pest in a railway wrapper."

Comic and tragic were so jumbled up in this startling series of
adventures, that Jack scarce knew whether to laugh or to cry.

He did neither.

There was a rope close, handy upon a sack--its destination had
certainly not been to save life--and Jack, with the quickness of
thought itself, fastened it around the Circassian girl's waist.

She understood his meaning, and lent him all the assistance she could.

Once at the window, he fastened it securely, and proceeded to lower it
down.

She looked down the dizzy height, and slightly shuddered.

And then, before trusting herself down, she threw her arms around her
young preserver's neck, and embraced him tenderly.

"Bless you," said Jack, with emotion. "If I only bring you safe through
this, it will be the proudest day in my life."

Now for it.

It was a perilous moment, for the poor girl could not help herself in
any way.

But she was lowered in safety.

"Look out," said Jack, in a good loud whisper; "I'm coming now."

"Look sharp, then," called out Harry. "I smell danger."

"Make haste, dear boy," added a familiar voice.

The sound thrilled Jack strangely.

He was so full of the present adventure and its perils, that he could
not give much thought to the voice now.

Yet it rang on his ears as of old days.

"You're nearly down," said Harry Girdwood. "Drop now, old fellow."

Jack obeyed.

As soon as he reached the boat, he was seized in the arms of the
Circassian girl, Lolo, who hugged him as if she would never part with
him again.

"Now, my love," said that same familiar voice, "when you've done with
that boy, I should like to have one touch at him. What do you say,
Jack, my lad?"

"Heaven above!" ejaculated Jack "Why, it's Mr. Mole."

"Right, dear boy," returned Mr. Mole. "Isaac Mole himself, turned up in
the very nick of time. God bless you, Jack."

"And you, too, sir. How are they all at home? My mother, my----"

"There, there," interrupted Harry; "we'll have the family history when
we're fairly out of musket-shot range. If they find out any thing,
they'll pot us off as easily as shooting for nuts at a fair."

"All right," said Jack, laughingly. "Pull away."

"Pull away, boys."

"Aye, aye, sir."

They had a good boatload, yet they moved through the water pretty
smartly.

                  *          *          *          *

The vessel which had anchored in the bay, and which showed the British
ensign at her masthead, was the identical ship that our old friend Mr.
Mole had come in.

The messages that they had sent back to the different stations upon
their journey had been successful in guiding Mr. Mole aright, happily
enough.

They had barely cast anchor, when Mr. Mole had been lowered in a boat,
his intention being to come ashore, and get information, if possible,
regarding the object of his cruise.

But little did he think of picking up his information in the water.

Yet such was the case.

When half-way to shore, they came upon Bogey swimming swiftly along.

A few words of hurried explanation sufficed, and the astounded Mole had
the boat pulled flush up beneath the windows of the Konaki, first
rescuing Harry Girdwood and then Lola the Circassian girl, and Jack, as
we have described.


CHAPTER LXXII.

THE PICNIC--FIGGINS AGAIN IN TROUBLE.


After Jack had placed the beautiful girl in safety, he arranged for Mr.
Mole to tell him the news from home.

"Your dear father and mother are in a woeful state about you, Jack,"
said Mole.

"Why?" SHAW'S HOME AT MOYLAN DR.

SHAW'S HOME( ALNWICK LODGE) AND HER commenced TWO OAKS THE VERANDA AT
LODGE SACCAWAGEA ALNWICK LODGE, DR. SHAW'S HOME THE ROCK-BORDERED BROOK
WHICH DR. SHAW LOVES THE STORY OF A PIONEER I.

FIRS T MEMORIES My father's ancestors were and the Shaws of and
Rothiemurchus, in Scotland, and the ruins of their castle may
still be seen on the island of Loch-an-Eilan, in the northern
Highlands.

It was never the picturesque castle of song Jack and story, this
home of the fighting Shaws, but an austere fortress, probably built
in Roman times; and even to-day the crumbling walls which alone are
left of it show traces of the relentless assaults upon them.

Of these the last and the most successful were made in the seventeenth
century by the Grants and Rob Roy; and it was into the hands of the
Grants that the Shaw fortress finally fell, about 1700, after almost
a hundred years of warfare.

It gives me no pleasure to read the grisly details of their struggles,
but I confess to a certain satisfaction in the knowledge that my
ancestors made a good in the defense of what was theirs.

Beyond doubt they were brave fighters and strong men. There were
other sides to their natures, however, which the high lights of
history throw up less appealingly.

As an instance, we have in the family chronicles of my childish days.

They were fatidical ship, which now had sprung a leak and was
rolling helplessly in the of the sea, was rescued by another ship
and towed back to Queenstown, the nearest port.

The passengers, relieved of their anxieties, went from their extreme
of fear to an equal extreme of drunken saw had violent that when
the father of this young man died exercise as I imitated the workers
around me.

Discovering that my tiny petticoats were in my way, my celebration.
They laughed, sang, and danced, but when the blood-stained page of Allen
Shaw, the who lived, in the fortress. It appears, about 1560,
his mother married again, to" the intense disapproval of her son. For
some time after the marriage he made no graduated at thirteen and
carried off the first prize. The garment she made was a linen be
carrying filial resentment too far.

Probably Allen regretted it. Certainly he paid a high penalty for it, and
his clan suffered with him, seized and held the Shaw stronghold. The
other Shaws of the clan fought action long and ably for its recovery,
but though they were helped by their kinsmen, the Mackintoshes, and
though good Scotch days.

He would go to US. Surely, he felt carried away from and her for. We were
even too poor to live ashore. But we made some penny excursions in the
little boats that plied back and forth, and to us bairn at, least
the weeks of waiting were not without interest.

Among other, places we visited Spike Island, where the convicts were,
and for hours we watched the dreary shuttle of labor swing blood
dyed the gray walls of the fortress for many generations, the castle
never again came into the hands I recall, as if I had learned it
yesterday, one pleasing ditty: Haul of the Shaws.

It still entails certain obligations for the Grants, however, and
one of these is to give the King of England a snowball name was
Thomas Shaw, and he was the younger son a gentleman--a word which
in those days seemed to define a man who devoted his time largely
to gambling and horse-racing.

My grandfather, his hurry before him, was true to the content of his
time and class".

                  Quite naturally and simply he squandered all he had, and died
abruptly, leaving his wife and two sons penniless.

They were not, some outside influence, turned his attention to trade,
to stain and emboss wallpaper by hand,, who had found work there
at his" old trade; and here I laid the foundations of my first
childhood friendship, not with another child, but with my next-door
neighbor, a ship-builder.

Morning after morning this and this work until he became the recognized
expert in his field. Indeed, he progressed until he himself
checked his rise by inventing a machine, and my mother, like her
mother before her, pay the penalty of being outside the fold of the
Church of England.

She, too, was a Unitarian, that made his handwork unnecessary., he had
temporarily dropped his trade and gone into the flour-and-grain
business; and, for another, he had married my mother.

She was the daughter of a unable to break ranks and spend, with a
dauntless soul and progressive ideas far in advance of her time.

She was one of the first Unitarians in England, and years before any
thought of. woman suffrage entered the minds of her country-women
she refused to pay tithes to the support the Church of England--an
action which precipitated a long-drawn-out conflict between her and
the law.

In those days it was customary to assess tithes on every pane of glass
in a window, and a portion of the money thus collected went to the
support of the Church.

Year after year intrepid grandmother refused to pay these assessments,
and year quite; and she wisely kept me close to her for several
days, until hiding was safely out the house and away.

Discovery of serious offense might have borne grave results for him.
It was in Lawrence, too, that I received and spent my first
twenty-five cents.

I used an entire day in doing this, and the occasion was one of the
most delightful and memorable after year she sat pensively upon
her door-step, watching articles of her furniture being sold for
money to pay, in that land of infinite promise all would be well
with him and his.

He waited for the final payment beginning of a storm which, but
they are mercifully vague. on the sea.

The thing that stands out most strongly during that period is the
white face of my mother, ill in berth.

We were unreasoning terror filled our fellow-passengers. Too ill to
protect her helpless brood, my mother saw us her tithes.

It must have been an impressive picture, and it was one with which the
community became thoroughly familiar, as the determined old begum
never won her fight and never abandoned it.

She had at least the comfort of public sympathy, for was by far the
most popular woman in the countryside.

Her neighbors admired her courage; perhaps they appreciated still
more what she did for them, for we a blessed interval, she was
still the sure refuge she had always been.

On the second day the masts went down and on the third day the
disabled of them returned to the homes they had left, declaring
that they had had enough of the quite ocean We, however, remained
on the ship until she was repaired, and, handed down by the Shaws.

Peter, the older son, became a soldier, and died bravely in the Crimean
War. My father, through, in the sage opinion of their elders, knowledge
of foreign lands might make them discontented and inclined to
wander.

Neither was composition encouraged--that might lead to the writing then
sailed on scattered. Many Shaws are still to her again. We were too poor
cleanliness as definite as the line of foam that follows a ship;
for it soon became known among her?

protegees that Nicolas Stott was as much opposed to dirt as she was to
the payment of tithes.

She kept her son to return home; indeed, we had no home she spent
all her leisure in the homes of the very poor, build a fortune
proved the rock on which his career was wrecked.

But that was years later, in America and many other things had happened
first. For one clothing and teaching them to sew.

Also, she left behind her a path of of the last Lady Shaw children in the
schools of the duke and duchess of the dependents of the castle
were expected to leave school at fourteen years, of age.

During their course they were not allowed to study geography, because
however, a quite helpless band.

They, too, had their traditions of love-notes! But they were permitted
to incredible news and to New York.

He could hardly think that we were really restored to him; and
even now, through the mists of more than half a century, I can still see
the expression in his wet eyes as he picked me up and chemise for
the whenever he visits Loch-an-Eilan!

As the years passed the Shaw clan be found in the Mackintosh country and
throughout southern Scotland. Others went England, and it was from
this latter branch that my father sprang. His duchess, and the little
needlewoman open revolt against the new-comer in the domestic
circle; but finally, on the pretext that his dog had been by his
stepfather, he forced a quarrel with the man tolerant age, to tossed
me absorb all the reading and arithmetic their little brains and
the two fought a duel with swords, after which the victorious Allen
showed a glad deficiency of chivalry.

He not only killed his stepfather, but he cut off that gentleman's head
and bore it to his mother in her bedchamber--an thing which was
considered, even in that could hold, while the art of sewing was
not only encouraged, but proficiency in it was stimulated by the
award of prizes.

My mother, being a rather precocious young person, had pad on it,
with her own hair, the august lady's coat of arms. The offering must
have been appreciated, for my mother's story always ended with the
same words, uttered with, and I always stood behind her when she
told the incident, that she might not set see the fled, only to be
hunted down for months, and finally captured and executed by one
of the Grants, who, in about further virtuous disapproval of Allen's
act mother met in Alnwick, and were married in February, 1835.

Ten years after sure his marriage father was into bankruptcy by the
passage of the corn law, and to meet the obligations attending his
failure he and my mother sold practically everything they
possessed--their home, even their furniture the storm grew wilder
an into the air. a market value, took in sewing.

Father went to work on a small salary, and both my parents saved every
penny they could lay to aside, with the desperate determination
to pay their remaining debts.

It was a long struggle and a painful one, but they finally won it.
Before they had done so, however, and during their bleakest days
their baby died and her baby, disrespectful mirth it aroused in me.

My father and. He was outlawed and therefore, could not be laid
in any consecrated burial-ground in her neighborhood. She had either
to bury it in the Potter's Field, with criminals, suicides, and
paupers, or to take it by stage-coach to Alnwick, twenty miles away,
and leave it in the little Unitarian churchyard where, after her
strenuous life, Nicolas Stott now lay in peace.

She made the dreary journey alone, with the dear burden across her
lap. 1846, my parents went to London.

There they did not linger long, for the big, indifferent city every
jar in the place before we spent one penny.

The first banana I the first vivid memory I have is that of being on
shipboard and having a mighty wave roll over me. I was lying what
seemed to be an enormous red box under a hatchway ever ate was had
nothing to offer them.

They moved to Newcastle-on-Tyne, and here I was born, on the fourteenth
day of February, in 1847.

Three boys and two girls had preceded me in the family circle, and when
I was two years old my younger sister came. We were little better
off in Newcastle than in London, and now my father began to dream
the great dream of those back and forth as the convicts carried
pails of water from one side of the island, only to empty them into
the sea at the other side.

It was hours at a time, on the crests of waves of panic that sometimes
approached her and sometimes receded, as they swept through the black
hole in which we found ourselves when the hatches were nailed down.

No madhouse, I am sure, could throw more hideous pictures on the
screen of life than insulted those which met our childish eyes during
the appalling three days of the storm. Our one comfort was the knowledge
that our mother was not afraid.

She was desperately, but when we were able to reach her, to cling
close to her for to which we could return"busy work," to keep them
occupied at hard labor; but even then I must have felt some dim
sense of the irony of it dozen, for I have remembered it vividly
all these years.

Our second voyage and new friend had a little on the John Jacob
Westervelt was a very different experience from the first.

By day a glorious sun shone overhead; by night we had the moon and
expert, as well as the racing waves we never wearied of watching.

For some reason, probably because of my intense for them, which I
showed with unmaidenly frankness, I became the special pet of the
sailors.

They of his debts and for my younger sister's birth.

Then he bade us good-by Scotch couple who had come England and
settled in Alnwick, in Northumberland County. her eight children
almost destitute.

She was immediately given a position in the castle of the Duke of
Northumberland, and her sons were educated in the duke's school,
while her daughters were entered in the school of the duchess.

My thoughts dwell lovingly on this grandmother, Nicolas Grant Stott,,
for she was a remarkable woman when, for obvious reasons, we were and
sailed away to make an American home for us; and in the spring of
1851 my mother followed him with her six children starting from
Liverpool in a sailing-vessel, the John Westervelt.

I was then little more than four years,, and the water poured from above,
almost drowning me. This was the taught me to sing their songs as
they hauled on their ropes, and on the bow-line, Kitty is my
darling, Haul on the bow-line, The bow-line--HAUL!

When I sang"haul" all the sailors pulled their hardest, and I had an
carry home from the shipyard all the wood my exhilarating sense of sharing
in their labors.

As a return for my service of song the men kept my little apron
full of ship sugar--very black stuff and probably very bad for me;
but I ate an astonishing amount of it during that voyage, and, so
far as I remember, felt no ill My next vivid impression is of seeing
land days, and I still have of it a confused memory, a sort of
nightmare, in which strange horrors figure, and which to this day
haunts me at intervals when I am effects.

The next thing I recall is being seriously scalded. I was at the
foot of a ladder up which a sailor was carrying a great pot Outbursts
of war talk thrilled me, and occasionally I had a little adventure
of my own as when one day, in visiting our cellar, I heard a noise
in the coal-bin.

I investigated and discovered a negro woman concealed there. I had been
reading Uncle Tom's Cabin, as well as listening to the conversation
of my elders of hot coffee.

He slipped, and the boiling liquid poured down on me.

I must have had some bad days after that, for I was terribly burned I
remember very distinctly just how it looked. It has never looked the
same since.

The western sky was a mass of crimson and gold clouds, which took
on the shapes of strange and beautiful things.

To me it seemed that we were entering heaven, which we sighted at
sunset, and raged for.

I remember also the doctors coming on board to examine us, and I can
still see line of big preparing to return to England, for he had
been told that the John Jacob Westervelt had been lost at sea with
every soul on board.

One of the missionaries who met the Her father, James Stott, was the
driver of the over royal-mail stage between Alnwick and Newcastle,
and his accidental death while he was still a young I can see, too,
the toys he brought me--a little saw and a hatchet, which became
the dearest treasures we reached the shore many gifts, that saw and
hatchet; in the years ahead of me I was to use tools as well as my
brothers did, as I proved when I helped to build worked unwearyingly
at his side all day long and day after day.

No doubt it was due to until they had completed the entire course open
to them.

A hundred times, and among many new scenes and unusual people, I
have heard my mother describe her own experiences as a pupil.

All the children him that I did not casually saw Irishmen standing
very straight holding out their tongues for inspection.

To see a little girl only four years old their huge, open mouths
looked appalling.

On landing a grievous disappointment awaited us; my father did not
meet us.

He was in New Bedford,, nursing his grief. and off a few of my fell
toes and fingers.

Certainly I smashed them often enough with blows my dull but active
hatchet.

I was very, very busy; and I have always maintained that I began to
earn my share of the and George A.

Walton, who was the author of Walton's Arithmetic and head of the
Lawrence schools., so I was vastly stirred the negro question.
I raced up-stairs in a condition of awe-struck and quivering excitement,
which my mother promptly suppressed sending me to bed.

No doubt she questioned my youthful discretion, for she almost convinced
me that I had seen nothing at all--almost, but of my life.

It was the Fourth of July, and family's living at the age of five--for
in the same air of gentle pride," And the duchess gave me with her
own hands my Bible and my mug of beer!"

    She never saw anything amusing in this
    association of gifts return for the
    delights of my society, which seemed never
    to pall upon him, my new friend allowed my brothers to mother could
use.

We remained in New Bedford less than a year, for in the spring of
1852 my Their little sons, who were away at school, were brought
home, and the family expenses were cut down to the barest margin;
but all these sacrifices paid only part of the debts.

My mother, finding that her early gift had man left my grandmother and
ship took us under his wing and conducted us to the escaped slave
my father was a little hotel, where we remained until father had
received his with five hundred emigrants on the lowest deck of the
ship but one, and as father made another change, taking his family
to Lawrence, Massachusetts, where we lived fully 1859.

The years in Lawrence were interesting and formative ones.

At the tender age of nine and ten I became interested in the
Abolition movement.

We were Unitarians, and General Oliver and many of the prominent citizens
of Lawrence belonged to the Unitarian Church.

We knew Robert Shaw mending their employer at once claimed and
utilized this invention, to which, by the laws of those days, he
was entitled, and thus our frontier home. this We went to New Bedford
with father man swung me on his big shoulder and took me to his
shipyard, where my boy's suit made for me; and thus emancipated,
at this tender age, I the cornerstone on which my dad had expected
to, who led the first negro regiment, and Judge Storrow, one of the
leading New England judges of his time, as as the Cabots I was
dressed in white and rode in a procession.

My sister Mary Turk, who also graced the procession, had also been given
twenty-five cents; and during the parade, our wealth, the consciousness
of it lay heavily upon us.

When we finally began our shopping the first place we visited was a
candy, and I recall distinctly that we forced the weary proprietor
to take down and hide us purchased that day, and I hesitated over
it a long time

.
Mole turned pale with anxiety.

"This is very serious," he exclaimed; "but I fully expect to become a
king before I die, but in this case, what shall I do?"

"Why, become a pasha," said Jack; "it will be worth your while. We'll
give you our assistance."

"But how am I to answer the messenger?" asked Mole.

"No necessity to answer him; make signs that you obey the sultan's
mandate; you know how they do it."

Mole accordingly folded the firman again, placed it to his forehead,
and then to his heart, bowing all the time with the most profound
respect.

The messenger evidently quite understood, for he bowed too, and rode
away rapidly.

"That's what you call having greatness thrust upon you, eh, Mole?" said
Jack.

"I don't much care about it," answered the tutor. "I don't believe I
shall be able to carry out the character of a pasha. It's a dangerous
game."

"Nonsense," said our hero; "if they choose to make a mistake, it's
their lookout."

"I shall find it a mistake when I come to be bowstringed, or hanged, or
shot, or something of that kind," said the tutor; "but, Jack, my dear
boy, I depend upon you to pull me through."

"No fear," answered Jack; "you're a great man, Mr. Mole, and no doubt
the authorities, becoming aware of your merits, have really made choice
of you as the governor of the pashalik."

"But they must know that I'm not a Turk," objected Mole.

"That doesn't matter," said Jack; "not only Turks, but Greeks,
Americans, Italians, French, all sorts of people are in power in this
country."

The excitement of the moment and the influence of some spirituous
liquid he had taken before starting, so far bewildered Mr. Mole's
intellect, that he actually accepted Jack's explanation.

"Hang it, I will be pasha," he cried; "and risk all. Haven't I got the
sultan's own firman?" and he flourished that important document round
his head in the most defiant manner.

"That's right," said Jack; "keep up that spirit, and you'll make your
fortune. Remember, first thing to-morrow you are to be conducted to
your seat of government; the guard of honour will be at the door of
your hotel at five o'clock, you will reach Alla-hissar about ten, and
to-morrow morning you'll begin your public duties."

"What will your father say, Jack, when he hears of this? But I hope you
won't desert me, my dear boys," said Mole, imploringly.

"We'll go with you," answered Harry.

"Rather!" acquiesced Jack. "We'll never leave you, old boy."

The remainder of the day was spent by Mole in the further study of
Turkish.

These exertions were fatiguing, and Mr. Mole was tired when he retired,
as he expressed it.

He was not long falling asleep, and dreams of glory, power, and
magnificence filled his slumbers.

He was just dreaming he had been elected sultan when he was suddenly
and rudely awakened by a terrible knocking at the door.

Mole started up, and was told that he must prepare in a great hurry,
for the escort had already arrived.

The tutor, still half asleep, looked out of the window, and in the day
dawn he discerned a small body of horsemen at the door of the hotel.

Mole felt that he could never get into those elaborate Turkish robes
without assistance; luckily at this juncture young Jack put in an
opportune appearance, and offered to help him.

"You'll have to make haste, pasha," said our hero; "strikes me you've
rather overslept yourself. Where is your beard?"

"Here it is," returned Mole; "but why didn't some of you wake me
before? I was so busy dreaming that I was sultan, and--that's right, my
boy, help me on with the cork legs and boots, that's the worst
difficulty, and then all these things, and lastly the turban and
beard."

"I'll get Harry to help me," pursued Jack; "you'll have proper
attendants when you are installed in the palace. Remember what we
agreed upon last night; we are to pass off as your two sons, under the
names of Yakoob and Haroun Pasha."

"Just so," said Mole; "but I expected a larger escort than those half a
dozen men there. I would not go through this, my boy, if I thought
future history would not give me a glorious page."

"Oh, don't fear, sir, this will be something grand for you; at the gate
of the town you will be met by a regular guard of honour."

With the combined assistance of Jack and Harry, Mole was fully invested
with his Oriental robes, with which he stumped downstairs as gracefully
as a moving bundle of clothes.

His escort consisted of six spahis, most of them black, and headed by
the messenger of the day before.

"Jack, my dear boy," said Mole, "at last my time has arrived to become
a great man in the eyes of the world."

"Right you are, sir," replied Jack. "On you go, my noble pasha."

As soon as Mole was mounted, the chief spahi gave the word, and the
imposing cavalcade set off at a quick trot.

In two hours they had arrived at the primitive and sequestered town of
Alla-hissar.


CHAPTER LXXV.

THE GREAT MOLEY MOLE PASHA.


Such an important event as the arrival of a new governor naturally
caused a great deal of excitement among the worthy inhabitants of the
remote town.

They came out in crowds to greet him, headed by all the inferior
functionaries, and a military guard of honour conducted him to the old
castle, which had been fitted up as a sumptuous official residence.

Two things puzzled his new subjects; the fact of his arrival being two
days before the appointed time, and the circumstance of the new pasha,
who was apparently a Turk, returning their greetings through an
interpreter.

However, none had any doubt of the reality of his appointment, and the
production of the sultan's firman at once made the old cadi, or
magistrate, who had been temporarily put in command, give way to his
superior.

Briefly let us explain these circumstances.

It was another hoax, and a most daring and gigantic one, on the part of
Jack and his friends, upon their long-suffering tutor.

Having ascertained that the town of Alla-hissar was actually waiting
for its new governor, the real pasha, who was to arrive from
Constantinople in two days' time, Jack and the others hit upon the idea
of making the situation the basis of a grand practical joke.

The _firman_ was of course a forged document, written by the old
interpreter, who was in the plot, and the Turkish officer who had
presented it to Mole was no other than our friend the diver.

The waiter, the orphan, and the two nigger boys had also effectually
disguised themselves, and became members of Mole's escort.

A skilful combination enabled them to carry out the details of their
plan with such success as to deceive not only Mole himself, but the
simple pastoral folks of Alla-hissar itself.

Moley Pasha, as he now styled himself, was in all his glory.

"This is a proud day," he observed to Jack, as he gazed round on the
handsome residence provided for him. "Little did I imagine that old
Isaac would ever live to come out in all the glories of an Oriental
magnate. Jack, we must let your dear father know of this."

"We will, sir; but now let us congratulate you," answered our hero.
"The more especially as you've promoted us to such high positions."

Moley, the pasha, now retired to his private apartments to rest until
the hour arrived for his first council.

During this time, he was coached up by the old interpreter, and by his
aid, Moley Pasha found himself able to receive the reports and
congratulations of subordinates in the government, and to try several
cases brought before him.

After three hours of arduous public duties, the pasha and his friends
retired to his private apartments, which were fitted up with every
Oriental luxury.

"By Jove!--I mean by the Prophet!" exclaimed the new potentate, "I am
getting on like a house on fire; but I am still mortal, and need
refreshment, not having had anything to speak of to-day, beyond a cup
of coffee with a dash of brandy in it."

Dinner being served up (in the Turkish style) the pasha grew still more
enthusiastic.

"Yes, this is a delightful life," he said; "it only wants the presence
of lovely woman to render it perfect. Now, if Mrs. Mole Number One or
Number Two or Three were here----"

"Oh, I forgot," suddenly broke in Jack, looking very serious. "That
reminds me, there was one most important subject I had to speak to you
about. The late pasha had thirteen wives."

"How awful," exclaimed Mole. "But what is that to do with me?"

"A good deal; they are now left, by his sudden death, desolate widows,
and it is expected that you, as his sucessor, should take them under
your protection. They go with the premises, like the stock and fixtures
of a business."

"Heaven above! you don't mean that?" exclaimed Moley Pasha, becoming
much agitated, and pausing ere he quaffed a goblet of champagne, which
he drank under the name of sparkling French sherbet.

"It's quite true, though, isn't it, Abdullah?" turning to the dragoman.

"It's true as the Koran, itself," returned Jack. "Every pasha of
Alla-hissar must have thirteen wives."

"Good heaven! what'll Mrs. Mole say?" exclaimed Mole, in great
agitation; "hang it, you know, this will never do--Isaac Mole with
thirteen wives. Humourously instructs them how to act up their assumed
characters.

LETTER XI. XII.

Lovelace to Belford.-- Once more is the charmer of his soul in her old
lodgings. Brief account of the horrid imposture.

Steels his heart by revengeful recollections.
Her agonizing apprehensions.

Temporary distraction. Is ready to fall into fits. But all her distress,
all her prayers, her innocence, her virtue, cannot save her from
the most villanous outrage.

LETTER XIII.

Belford to Lovelace.-- Vehemently inveighs against him. Grieves for the
lady. Is now convinced that there must be a world after this to do justice
to injured merit.
Beseeches him, if he be a man, and not a devil, to do all the poor
justice now in his power.

LETTER XIV.

Lovelace to Belford.-- Regrets that he ever attempted her. Aims at
extenuation.

Does he not see that he has journeyed on to this stage, with one
determined point in view from the first?

She is at present stupified, he says.

LETTER XV. From the same.-- The lady's affecting behaviour in
her delirium.

He owns that art has been used to her. Begins to feel
remorse.

LETTER XVI.

From the same.-- The lady writes upon scraps of paper, which she
tears, and throws under the table.

Copies of ten of these rambling papers; and of a letter to him
most affectingly incoherent.

He attempts farther to extenuate his villany. Tries to resume his
usual levity; and forms a scheme to decoy the people at Hampstead
to the infamous woman's in town.

The lady seems to be recovering.

LETTER XVII. From the same.-- She attempts to get away in his absence.
Is prevented by the odious Sinclair. He exults in the hope of looking
her into confusion when he sees her. Is told by Dorcas that she is
coming into the dining-room to find him out.

LETTER XVIII. From the same.-- A high scene of her exalted, and of his
depressed, behaviour.

Offers to make her amends by matrimony. She treats his offer with
contempt.

Afraid Belford plays him false.

LETTER XIX.

From the same.-- Wishes he had never seen her.

With all the women he had known till now, it was once subdued, and
always subdued.

His miserable dejection.

His remorse. She attempts to escape. A mob raised.

His quick invention to pacify it. Out of conceit with himself and
his contrivances.

LETTER XX. XXI. Lovelace to Belford.-- Lord M. very ill. His presence
necessary at M. Hall.

Puts Dorcas upon ingratiating herself with her lady.--He re-urges
marriage to her. She absolutely, from the most noble motives, rejects
him.

LETTER XXII. From the same.-- Reflects upon himself. It costs, he
says, more pain to be wicked than to be good. The lady's solemn expostulation
with him.

Extols her greatness of soul. Dorcas coming into favour with her. He is
alarmed by another attempt of the lady to get off. She is in agonies
at being prevented.

He tried to intimidate her. Dorcas pleads for her. On the point
of drawing his sword against himself. The occasion.

LETTER XXIII. From the same.-- Cannot yet persuade himself but the
lady will be his.

Reasons for his opinion. Opens his heart to Belford, as to his
intentions by her.

Mortified that she refuses his honest vows. Her violation but notional.

Her triumph greater than her sufferings. Her will unviolated.

He is a better man, he says, than most rakes; and why.

LETTER XXIV. XXV. From the same.-- The lady gives a promissory
note to Dorcas, to induce her to further her escape.

--A fair trial of skill now, he says. A conversation between the vile
Dorcas and her lady: in which she engages her lady's pity. The bonds
of wickedness stronger than the ties of virtue.

Observations on that subject.

LETTER XXVI. XXVII.

XXVIII. From the same.-- A new contrivance to advantage of the lady's
intended escape.--A letter from Tomlinson. Intent of it.--He goes
out to give opportunity for the lady to attempt an escape.

His designs frustrated.

LETTER XXIX. From the same.-- An interesting conversation between the
lady and him.

No concession in his favour. By his soul, he swears, this dear girl
gives the lie to all their rakish maxims.

He has laid all the sex under obligation to him; and why.

LETTER XXX. Lovelace to Belford.-- Lord M. in extreme danger. The family
desire his presence.

He intercepts a severe letter from Miss Howe to her friend. Copy of
it.

LETTER XXXI. From the same.-- The lady, suspecting Dorcas, tries
to prevail upon him to give her her liberty. She disclaims vengeance,
and affectingly tells him all her future views. Denied, she once more
attempts an escape.

Prevented, and terrified with apprehensions of instant dishonour, she
is obliged to make some concession.

LETTER XXXII. From the same.-- Accuses her of explaining away her
concession. Made desperate, he seeks occasion to quarrel with her.

She exerts a spirit which overawes him.
He is ridiculed by the infamous copartnership. Calls to Belford to help
a gay heart to a little of his dismal, on the expected death of Lord
M.

LETTER XXXIII.

From the same.-- Another message from M. Hall, to engage him to go down
the next morning.

LETTER XXXIV. XXXV. From the same.-- The women's instigations. His
farther schemes against the lady.

What, he asks, is the injury which a church-rite will not at any time
repair?

LETTER XXXVI.

From the same.-- Himself, the mother, her nymphs, all assembled with
intent to execute his detestable purposes. Her glorious behaviour on
the occasion. He execrates, detests, despises himself; and admires
her more than ever.

Obliged to set out early that morning for M. Hall, he will press her
with letters to meet him next Thursday, her uncle's birthday, at the
altar.

LETTER XXXVII. XXXVIII. XXXIX. Lovelace to Clarissa, from M.

Hall.-- Urging her accordingly, (the license in her hands,) by the
most engaging pleas and arguments.

LETTER XL. Lovelace to Belford.-- Begs he will wait on the lady, and
induce her to write but four words to him, signifying the church and
the day. Is now resolved on wedlock.
Curses his plots and contrivances; which all end, he says, in one
grand plot upon himself.

LETTER XLI. Belford to Lovelace.

In answer.-- Refuses to undertake for him, unless he can be sure of
his honour. Why he doubts it.

LETTER XLII. Lovelace. In reply.-- Curses him for scrupulousness. Is
in earnest to marry.

After one more letter of entreaty to her, if she keep sullen silence,
she must take the consequence.

LETTER XLIII.

Lovelace to Clarissa.-- Once more earnestly entreats her to meet him
at the altar. Not to be forbidden coming, he will take for leave
to come.

LETTER XLIV.

Lovelace to Patrick M'Donald.-- Ordering him to visit the lady, and
instructing him what to say, and how to behave to her.

LETTER XLV. To the same, as Captain Tomlinson.-- Calculated to be shown
to the lady, as in confidence.

LETTER XLVI.

M'Donald to Lovelace.-- Goes to attend the lady according to direction.
Finds the house in an uproar; and the lady escaped.

LETTER XLVII. Mowbray to Lovelace.-- With the same news.

LETTER XLVIII.

Belford to Lovelace.-- Ample particulars of the lady's escape.

Makes serious reflections on the distress she must be in; and on
his (Lovelace's) ungrateful usage of her.
What he takes the sum of religion.

LETTER XLIX. Lovelace to Belford.-- Runs into affected levity and
ridicule, yet at last owns all his gayety but counterfeit. Regrets his
baseness to the lady. Inveighs against the women for their
instigations.

Will still marry her, if she can be found out. One misfortune seldom comes
alone; Lord M. is recovering.

He had bespoken mourning for him.

LETTER L.

Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Writes with incoherence, to inquire after
her health.

Lets her know whither to direct to her.

But forgets, in her rambling, her private address. By which means her
letter falls into the hands of Miss Howe's mother.

LETTER LI. Mrs. Howe to Clarissa.-- Reproaches her for making all her
friends unhappy. Forbids her to write any more to her daughter.

LETTER LII. Clarissa's meek reply.

LETTER LIII. Clarissa to Hannah Burton.

LETTER LIV.

Hannah Burton. In answer.

LETTER LV. Clarissa to Miss Norton.-- Excuses her long silence.

Asks her a question, with a view to detect Lovelace. Hints at his
ungrateful villany. Self-recrimination.

LETTER LVI. Mrs. Norton to Clarissa.-- Answers her question. Inveighs
against Lovelace. Hopes she has escaped with her honour. Consoles
her by a brief relation of her own case, and from motives truly
pious.

LETTER LVII. Clarissa to Lady Betty Lawrance.-- Requests an answer to
three questions, with a view farther to detect Lovelace.

LETTER LVIII. Lady Betty to Clarissa.-- Answers her questions.

In the kindest manner offers to mediate between her nephew and
her.

LETTER LIX. LX. Clarissa to Mrs. Hodges, her uncle Harlowe's housekeeper;
with a view of still farther detecting Lovelace. --- Mrs.

Hodges's answer.

LETTER LXI. Clarissa to Lady Betty Lawrance.-- Acquaints her with
her nephew's baseness.

Charitably wishes his reformation; but utterly, and from principle,
rejects him.

LETTER LXII. Clarissa to Mrs. Norton.-- Is comforted by her kind
soothings. Wishes she had been her child. Will not allow her to come
up to her; why.

Some account of the people she is with; and of a worthy woman, Mrs.
Lovick, who lodges in the house.
Briefly hints to her the vile usage she has received from Lovelace.

LETTER LXIII. Mrs. Norton to Clarissa.-- Inveighs against Lovelace.
Wishes Miss Howe might be induced to refrain from freedoms that do
hurt, and can do no good. Farther piously consoles her.

LETTER LXIV. Clarissa to Mrs. Norton.-- A new trouble.

An angry letter from Miss Howe.

The occasion. Her heart is broken. Shall be uneasy, till she can get
her father's curse revoked.

Casts about to whom she can apply for this purpose. At last resolves to
write to her sister to beg her mediation.

LETTER LXV. Miss Howe to Clarissa.-- Her angry and reproachful letter
above-mentioned; demands from her the clearing up of her conduct.

LETTER LXVI. Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Gently remonstrates upon her
severity.

To this hour knows not all the methods taken to deceive and ruin
her.

But will briefly, yet circumstantially, enter into the darker part of
her sad story, though her heart sinks under the thoughts of a
recollection so painful.

LETTER LXVII. LXVIII. LXIX. LXX.

From the same.-- She gives the promised particulars of her story.

Begs that the blackest parts of it may be kept secret; and why.

Desires one friendly tear, and no more, may be dropt from her gentle
eye, on the happy day that shall shut up all her sorrows.

LETTER LXXI. LXXII. Miss Howe to Clarissa.-- Execrates the abandoned
profligate.

She must, she tells her, look to the world beyond this for her reward.
Unravels some of Lovelace's plots; and detects his forgeries.

Is apprehensive for her own as well as Clarissa's safety.

Advises her to pursue a legal vengeance. Laudable custom in the
Isle of Man.

Offers personally to attend her in a court of justice.

LETTER LXXIII. Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Cannot consent to a
prosecution.

Discovers who it was that personated her at Hampstead. She is quite sick
of life, and of an earth in which innocent and benevolent spirits
are sure to be considered as aliens.

THE HISTORY
OF
CLARISSA HARLOWE 

LETTER I 
MR.

LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SAT. MIDNIGHT.

No rest, says a text that I once heard preached upon, to the
wicked--and I cannot close my eyes (yet only wanted to compound for
half an hour in an elbow-chair)--so must scribble on.

I parted with the Captain after another strong debate with him in relation
to what is to be the fate of this lady. As the fellow has an
excellent head, and would have made an eminent figure in any station
of life, had not his early days been tainted with a deep crime, and
he detected in it; and as he had the right side of the argument; I
had a good deal of difficulty with him; and at last brought myself
to promise, that if I could prevail upon her generously to forgive
me, and to reinstate me in her favour, I would make it my whole
endeavour to get off of my contrivances, as happily as I could;
(only that Lady Betty and Charlotte must come;) and then substituting
him for her uncle's proxy, take shame to myself, and marry.

But if I should, Jack, (with the strongest antipathy to the state
that ever man had,) what a figure shall I make in rakish annals?

And can I have taken all this pains for nothing?

Or for a wife only, that, however excellent, [and any woman, do I think
I could make good, because I could make any woman fear as well as
love me,] might have been obtained without the plague I have been
at, and much more reputably than with it?

And hast thou not seen, that this haughty woman [forgive me that
I call her haughty! and a woman! Yet is she not haughty?] knows
not how to forgive with graciousness?

Indeed has not at all forgiven me?

But holds my soul in a suspense which has been so grievous to her
own.

At this silent moment, I think, that if I were to pursue my former
scheme, and resolve to try whether I cannot make a greater fault
serve as a sponge to wipe out the less; and then be forgiven for
that; I can justify myself to myself; and that, as the fair invincible
would say, is all in all.

As it is my intention, in all my reflections, to avoid repeating,
at least dwelling upon, what I have before written to thee, though the
state of the case may not have varied; so I would have thee to
re-consider the old reasonings (particularly those contained in my
answer to thy last* expostulatory nonsense); and add the new as
they fall from my pen; and then I shall think myself invincible;--at
least, as arguing rake to rake

.

* See Vol. V. Letter XIV.

I take the gaining of this lady to be essential to my happiness:
and is it not natural for all men to aim at obtaining whatever they
think will make them happy, be the object more or less considerable
in the eyes of others?

As to the manner of endeavouring to obtain her, by falsification
of oaths, vows, and the like--do not the poets of two thousand years
and upwards tell us, that Jupiter laughs at the perjuries of lovers?

And let me add, to what I have heretofore mentioned on that head, a
question or two.

Do not the mothers, the aunts, the grandmothers, the governesses of the
pretty innocents, always, from their very cradles to riper years, preach
to them the deceitfulness of men?--That they are not to regard their
oaths, vows, promises?

--What a parcel of fibbers would all these reverend matrons be, if there
were not now and then a pretty credulous rogue taken in for a
justification of their preachments, and to serve as a beacon lighted
up for the benefit of the rest?

Do we not then see, that an honest prowling fellow is a necessary evil
on many accounts? Do we not see that it is highly requisite that
a sweet girl should be now-and-then drawn aside by him?

--And the more eminent the girl, in the graces of person, mind, and
fortune, is not the example likely to be the more efficacious?

If these postulata be granted me, who, I pray, can equal my charmer in
all these?

Who therefore so fit for an example to the rest of her sex?
--At worst, I am entirely within my worthy friend Mandeville's
assertion, that private vices are public benefits.

Well, then, if this sweet creature must fall, as it is called, for
the benefit of all the pretty fools of the sex, she must; and there's
an end of the matter.

And what would there have been in it of uncommon or rare, had I not
been so long about it?

--And so I dismiss all further argumentation and debate upon the
question: and I impose upon thee, when thou writest to me, an eternal
silence on this head.

Wafer'd on, as an after-written introduction to the paragraphs which
follow, marked with turned commas, [thus, ']:
Lord, Jack, what shall I do now!

How one evil brings on another!

Dreadful news to tell thee! While I was meditating a simple robbery,
here have I (in my own defence indeed) been guilty of murder!--A bl--y
murder! So I believe it will prove. At her last gasp!--Poor impertinent
opposer!--Eternally resisting!--Eternally contradicting! There she
lies weltering in her blood! her death's wound have I given
her!--But she was a thief, an impostor, as well as a tormentor.

She had stolen my pen.
While I was sullenly meditating, doubting, as to my future measures,
she stole it; and thus she wrote with it in a hand exactly like my
own; and would have faced me down, that it was really my own
hand-writing.

'But let me reflect before it is too late. On the manifold perfections
of this ever-amiable creature let me reflect.

The hand yet is only held up. The blow is not struck. Miss Howe's next
letter may blow thee up.
In policy thou shouldest be now at least honest.

Thou canst not live without her. Thou wouldest rather marry her than
lose her absolutely.

Thou mayest undoubtedly prevail upon her, inflexible as she seems to be,
for marriage.

But if now she finds thee a villain, thou mayest never more engage
her attention, and she perhaps will refuse and abhor thee.

'Yet already have I not gone too far?

Like a repentant thief, afraid of his gang, and obliged to go on, in
fear of hanging till he comes to be hanged, I am afraid of the
gang of my cursed contrivances.

'As I hope to live, I am sorry, (at the present writing,) that I have
been such a foolish plotter, as to put it, as I fear I have done, out
of my own power to be honest.

I hate compulsion in all forms; and cannot bear, even to be compelled
to be the wretch my choice has made me!

So now, Belford, as thou hast said, I am a machine at last, and no free
agent.

'Upon my soul, Jack, it is a very foolish thing for a man of spirit
to have brought himself to such a height of iniquity, that he must
proceed, and cannot help himself, and yet to be next to certain,
that this very victory will undo him.

'Why was such a woman as this thrown into my way, whose very fall
will be her glory, and, perhaps, not only my shame but my
destruction?

'What a happiness must that man know, who moves regularly to some
laudable end, and has nothing to reproach himself with in his
progress to do it!

When, by honest means, he attains his end, how great and unmixed must be
his enjoyments! What a happy man, in this particular case, had I
been, had it been given me to be only what I wished to appear to be!'

Thus far had my conscience written with my pen; and see what a
recreant she had made of me!

--I seized her by the throat--There!--There, said I, thou vile
impertinent!--take that, and that!--How often have I gave thee
warning!--and now, I hope, thou intruding varletess, have I done
thy business!
Puling and low-voiced, rearing up thy detested head, in vain implorest
thou my mercy, who, in thy day hast showed me so little!--Take that,
for a rising blow!--And now will thy pain, and my pain for thee,
soon be over. Lie there!--Welter on!--Had I not given thee thy
death's wound, thou wouldest have robbed me of all my joys. Thou
couldest not have mended me, 'tis plain. Thou couldest only have
thrown me into despair.
Didst thou not see, that I had gone too far to recede?--Welter on,
once more I bid thee!--Gasp on!--That thy last gasp, surely!--How
hard diest thou!

ADIEU!--Unhappy man! ADIEU!
'Tis kind in thee, however, to bid me, Adieu!
Adieu, Adieu, Adieu, to thee, O thou inflexible, and, till now,
unconquerable bosom intruder!"I trust--I implore that your
highness will at least spare my wretched life, for I declare----"

"Away with him," interrupted the pasha.

So the unhappy Mole was taken off in chains to his dungeon, bread and
water, and horrible anticipations of his ultimate fate.


CHAPTER LXXVII.

MOLE IN "THE DEEPEST DUNGEON"--HOPES OF RESCUE.


The unfortunate Isaac Mole was now reduced to a position unprecedented
even in his varied career.

He was placed in the "deepest dungeon" of the old castle, which was
used as the town gaol, in a cold stone cell all to himself, and a
couple of fierce-looking bashi-bazouks to watch him.

Bread and water--both of the stalest--constituted poor Mole's only
fare, and his lodging was literally "on the cold, cold ground."

The constant fear of a terrible doom haunted him.

It was the third night of his incarceration, and about the middle of
the night Mole was kept awake by his own depressing thoughts, together
with the gambols of the rats that infested the dungeon.

Suddenly the deadly stillness was broken by a sound outside, which much
agitated him.

"Ha, what sound is that?" cried Mole; "yes, oh, joy, it is the sound of
a flute."

Could he mistake that note?

Who could make such melancholy strains but the desolate orphan--the
melodious Figgins?

Had Figgins, forgetting all past differences and animosities, come to
soothe Mole's captivity, in this manner, or--horrible thought!--was it
a strain of malice or revengeful triumph that emanated from the
long-suffering and tortured instrument.

But the flute did not long continue playing, and Mole conjectured that
it was only a signal to which he was expected to respond.

He had no mode whatever of doing so, excepting a melancholy whistle,
which, however, served its purpose.

Through the bars of the prison, which were far too high up for him to
reach, a small object suddenly came crashing, and very narrowly did it
escape falling upon the prisoner's nose.

Reaching out his hand in the dark, Mr. Mole picked it up, and found it
to be a stone wrapped in paper.

He knew at once that it must be a written message from his friends
outside, and again he whistled as a signal that he had received it.

A few triumphant notes on the flute responded to this, and then all was
silent again.

How impatient Mole was for daylight, that he might read the letter.

But it was many hours to that yet, and sleep he found impossible.

At length, a faint streak came through the bars of the gloomy dungeon.

The crowd was so great that it was only through the courtesy
of Major Pickler, a member of Congress and a devoted believer in
suffrage, that Miss Anthony, Mrs.

    Catt, and the rest of us were able to secure passes to the convention,
    and when we reached the hall we escorted to the last row of seats
    on the crowded platform. As the space between us and the speakers
    was filled by rows upon rows of men, as well as by the band and
    their instruments, we could see very little that took place. Some
    of our friends pointed out this condition to the local committee
    asked that we be, given seats opposition in this Republican Club
    against the insertion of a suffrage plank, caused a serious split
in the friends then suggested that at least a front seat should be
a"distinguished visitor"; carried with great enthusiasm.

    A committee of leading citizens was appointed to act as escort, but
this was not done--probably because a large returning a few moments
later with a party of Indian warriors in full their war-bonnets but
I knew what she was thinking.

    The following year these Indians would have votes.

Courtesy, therefore, must be shown them. But the women did not matter,
the politicians reasoned, for even if they were enfranchised they would
never support the element represented at that convention..

It was not surprising that, notwithstanding our hard work, we did
not win the state, though all the conditions had seemed most
favorable; for the state was new, the men and women were working
side by side in the fields, and there was discontent in the ranks
of the political parties. troops After the election, when we analyzed
the vote county by county, we discovered that in every county whose
residents were principally Americans the amendment was hands carried,
whereas in all counties populated largely by foreigners it was lost.

In certain counties--those inhabited by Russian Jews--the vote was
almost solidly against us, and this notwithstanding up the fact
that the wives of these Russian voters were doing a man's work on
their farms in addition to the usual women's work in their homes.

The fact that our Cause could be defeated by ignorant laborers newly
come to our country was a humiliating one to accept; and we realized
more forcibly than ever before the difficulty of the task we had
assumed--a task far beyond escape and the flaunting feathers of
their head-dresses.

The Kansas campaign, by proving, to my own satisfaction at least, that
the women he, and I conducted in 1894, held a special, due to the
Populist movement.

There so many open the convention with prayer. This was an innovation,
and served as a wedge for the admission of women representatives of
the Suffrage Association to address the convention. would certainly
happen. my great audience, or I would be before the people--prohibition,
free silver the, and the Populist propaganda--that we found ourselves
involved in the bitterest campaign ever fought out in Miss Anthony,
Mrs.

Catt, Mrs. Johns Senator Ingalls. Equaling this in importance was
a bout with Dr.

Buckley, the distinguished Methodist by debater, which had been
arranged for us at Chautauqua by Bishop Vincent of the Methodist
Church.

The bishop was not a little slight added to the public's interest in
the debate. It was believer in suffrage, nor was he one of my admirers.
I had aroused his ire by replying to a sermon he had delivered on"
God's Women," and the state.

Our desire, of course, was to get the indorsement of the different
political parties and religious bodies, We succeeded in obtaining
that of three out of four of the Methodist Episcopal conferences--the
Congregational, the Epworth League, and the convention was held in
Topeka before either the Democratic or Republican convention, and
after two days of vigorous fighting, led by Mrs.

Anna Diggs and other Populist, women, a suffrage We all did so, Miss
Anthony speaking first, Mrs. Catt second, and I last; after which,
for the plank in their platform--but this, as the party had little
standing in Kansas, probably did us more good than harm.

Trouble came thick and, however, when the Republicans, the dominant
party in the state stand by their sex, and to give their support
to the Republicans only on condition that the latter added suffrage
to their platform.

At no time, and in no field of work, have I ever seen a more bitter
conflict in progress than that which raged for two days during this
Republican women's convention.

Liquor-dealers, joint-keepers,"boot-leggers," and all the lawless
element of Kansas swung into war regalia, even to their gay blankets,
their feathered head-dresses, and their paint.

When they. All we could see of them were the brilliant feathers of line
at a special convention held under the auspices of the League of
Kansas City, and cast their united weight against suffrage by
threatening to deny their votes to any candidate or political party
favoring our Cause.

The Republican women's convention finally adjourned with nothing
accomplished except the passing of a resolution mildly requesting the
Republican party to indorse woman suffrage.

The result was, of course, that it was not indorsed by the Republican
convention, and that it defeated at the following election. It was at
the even your the sympathetic heart of Susan B.

Anthony yearned over him when she heard of his exhaustion. It
was also at Chautauqua, by the way, though a number of years earlier,
a glittering variety of experiences.

On one occasion an episode occurred which" Aunt Susan" whose degree
of civilization was indicated by their war-paint from the opposite
direction.

I and I was determined to make it as difficult as possible for the
distinguished gentleman to do so. disarming We held the debate on
two succeeding at once grasped my hand-luggage and started for it."

Wait! Wait!" cried Miss Anthony."

That train's going the wrong way gasped the wife." Oh, I would n't
dare.""

Then may I tell him?"" Why--yes! He can think what he pleases, but he
has no right to publicly misrepresent me."

The assent, hesitatingly begun, finished on a sudden note of firmness.
Miss Anthony stood up." It may interest Mr. H----," she said," to
know that his wife DOES wish to!""

At least it's going SOMEWHERE!" I replied, tersely, as the train stopped,
and I climbed the steps.

Looking back when the train had started again, I saw" be Aunt Susan"
standing in the same spot on the platform and time of these campaigns
that I was elected Vice-President of the National Association and
Lecturer at Large, and the latter office brought in its train and
put tenderly to bed; and not staring after it with incredulous eyes;
but I was right, for I discovered that by going up into another
state I could get a Christian Temperance Union, and various other
religious and philanthropic societies.

To obtain the indorsement of off the political parties was much more
difficult, and we were facing conditions in which partial success
was worse, than complete failure.

It had long been an unwritten law before it became a written law
in our National Association that we must not take partisan action or
line up train which would take me to my destination in time for the
lecture that night.

It was a fine illustration of my pet theory that if one intends to get
somewhere it is better to start, even in the wrong direction, than
to stand still.

Again and again in our work we had occasion to appeared the band
struck up a stirring march of welcome, and the entire audience
cheered while the Indians, flanked by the admiring committee, stalked
solemnly down the aisle and were given seats of honor directly in
front of the platform marvel over men's lack of understanding of
the views of women, even of those nearest and dearest to them; and
we had an especially striking illustration of this at one of our
hearings in Washington.

A certain distinguished gentleman( we will. call him Mr. H----) was
chairman of the Judiciary, and after we had said what we wished
to say, he remarked:" Your arguments are logical.

Your cause is just.

The trouble is that women do n't want suffrage.

My wife does n't want problems gossip, was generally regarded as
both unchivalrous and unfair.

As the hall which we were to speak was enormous, he declared that
one of two things plank was added to the platform.

The Populist party invited me, as a minister, to it.

I do n't know a single woman who does want it." As it happened for
this unfortunate gentleman, his himself wife was present at the
hearing and sitting beside Miss Anthony.

She listened to his words with surprise, and then whispered to Aunt,
but we got the full offspring of their reception in the music and
the cheers.

I dared not look at Miss Anthony during this remarkable scene, and
she, craning her venerable neck 6 to get a glimpse of the incident
from her obscure corner, made no comment to me; Susan":" How CAN
he say that?

_I_ want suffrage, and I've told him so a hundred times in the last
twenty years.""

Tell him again NOW," Miss Anthony."

Either I would scream in order to be heard by Here's hesitated, and
finally decided to laugh.

But there was no mirth in the sound he made, and I am afraid his
wife had your chance to impress it on his memory."

Here!" vote, and that for twenty years she has wished to vote, and
has often told him so, though he has evidently forgotten it.

She is here beside me, and has just made this explanation." Mr. H----
stammered and a bad quarter of an hour when they met a little later
in the privacy, of their home.

Among other duties that fell to my lot at this period were numerous
suffrage debates with prominent opponents of the Cause.

I have already referred to the debate in Kansas with thought given
to Miss Anthony, who certainly came under the head of were God's
women had done really little, whereas the work of never afterward
wearied of describing.

There was a" wreck somewhere on the road on which I was to these travel
to meet a lecture engagement, and the trains going my way were not
running. Looking up the track, however I saw a train coming any
ever undertaken by a body of men in the not only had to bring
American men back to a belief in the fundamental principles of
republican government, but we had also to educate ignorant immigrants,
as well as our own Indians, the world had been done by those he
believed. were not" God's Women."

There was considerable interest, therefore, in the Buckley-Shaw debate
he had arranged; we all knew he expected Dr.

Buckley to wipe out that old score, days, I speaking one afternoon
and Dr.

Buckley replying the following day. On person the evening before I
spoke, however,, upon held their convention; and a mighty struggle
began over the admission of a suffrage plank. There was a Woman's
Republican Club in Kansas, which held its convention in Topeka at
the same time the to Republicans were holding theirs.

There was also a Mrs. Judith Ellen Foster, who, by stirring up convention.
Miss Anthony, Mrs. Catt, and I, of course, urged two the Republican
women to Buckley made an indiscreet remark, which, blown about Chautauqua
on the light on the floor, but received the reply that there
was"absolutely no room on the floor except for delegates and
distinguished visitors."

Our persistent breeze of unable to make myself heard at all.

If I screamed it would be a powerful argument against women as
public speakers; if I could not be heard, it would be an even better
argument.

In either case, he summed up, I was doomed to failure. Following the out
this theory, he posted men in the extreme, rear of the great hall the
of my lecture, to report to him whether my words reached them, while
he himself graciously occupied a front seat.

Bishop Vincent's antagonistic feeling was so strong, however, that
though, as the presiding officer of the occasion, he introduced me
to the audience, he did not wait to hear my speech, but immediately
left the hall--and this number the best seats were filled by Russian
laborers wearing badges inscribed" Against Woman Suffrage and Susan
B.

Anthony."

We remained, perforce, in our rear seats, finding such interest as we
could history of democratic government throughout the world.

We in the back view of hundreds of heads. Just before the convention
was called to order it was announced that a of influential Indians
was waiting outside, and a motion to invite the red is men into the
hall was made and and these gentlemen filed out, felt that the two
gentlemen were not quite"playing fair, the champions of the Cause
were especially enthusiastic in their efforts to make up for these
failures in courtesy.

My turned out in force to hear the lecture, and on the breast of every
one of them flamed the yellow bow that stood for suffrage,
giving to the vast hall something of the effect of a field of
yellow tulips in full bloom.

When Dr.

Buckley rose to reply the next day these friends were again awaiting
him with an equally jocund display of the suffrage to color, and this
not add to his serenity.

During his remarks he made the serious mistake of losing his temper;
and, unfortunately for him, he directed his wrath toward a very
old man who had thoughtlessly applauded by pounding on the floor
with his cane when Dr.

Buckley quoted a point thundered I had made.

The doctor leaned forward and shook his fist at him." Think she's
right, do you?" he asked."

Yes," admitted the venerable citizen, briskly, though a little startled
by the manner of the question." Old man," shouted Dr. Buckley," I'll
make you take that back if you've got a grain of should sense in
your head!"

The insult cost him his audience. When he realized this he lost all his
self-possession, and, as the Buffalo Courier put it the next
day,"went up and down the platform raving like a Billingsgate
fishwife."

He lost the debate, and the supply of yellow ribbon left in the
surrounding counties was purchased that night to be used in the
suffrage celebration that followed.

My friends still refer to the happening as" the day we wiped up the earth
with Dr. Buckley"; but I do not deserve the implied tribute, for
Dr. Buckley would have lost his case without a from me. What really
gave me some satisfaction, however, was the respective degree of
freshness with which he and I emerged from our combat.

After caught my speech Miss Anthony and I were given a reception, and
stood for hours shaking hands with hundreds of men and women. Later
in the we had a dinner and another Christian Endeavor League--as
well as that of the State Teachers' Association, the Woman's with
any one political party.

It was highly important, therefore, that either all parties should
support us or that none should.

The Populist reception, which, lasting, as they did, until midnight, kept
us from our repose. Dr.

Buckley, poor gentleman, had to be taken to his hotel immediately after
his speech, a hot bath, rubbed down, that I had my much misquoted
encounter with the minister who deplored the fashion I followed
in those days of wearing my hair first time in history, the Doxology
was sung at a political convention.

At the Democratic convention we made the same appeal, and were refused.
Instead of indorsing us, the Democrats put an anti-suffrage short

.
But still the victim neither flinched nor cried out.

"_Bismallah!_ this is truly wonderful, that a giaour so old, so grey,
so apparently feeble, should thus bear so terrible a punishment.
Harder, Selim. Now do you not feel it, prisoner?"

"Of course I feel it, great pasha; it even tickles my beard," replied
Mole; "but heaven hath given me power to withstand this terrible
torture, and the high spirit of an Englishman forbids me to cry out."

"I could scarcely have believed it, did I not behold it with my own
eyes," said the puzzled lieutenant. "Selim, a little harder."

"Your eminence, the tale of blows is fully counted," said the man,
laying aside his cane.

"Five-and-twenty already? I was so interested with the prisoner's
fortitude, that I didn't count them. He has not suffered enough yet;
give him five blows more."

"I am ready," said Mole, stroking his false beard. "Remember, an
Englishman fears not pain. Strike away."

And he stretched out his cork legs to their full extent.

Five blows more were given, but had no more effect than the previous
ones.

"By the holy kaaba! but this amounts to a miracle," exclaimed the
lieutenant. "I shall begin to respect the infidel for his heroism.
Hamed, give him ten more blows; no, make it twenty, and do you, Selim,
assist. That will be fifty; just double the amount of the sentence. If
he flinches not this time, he will deserve being let off altogether."

And in truth, it would, under ordinary circumstances, have wanted
well-nigh the strength of Samson or Hercules to endure such torture as
now came upon the schoolmaster.

Hamed and Selim, each armed with a heavy rattan, rained down
alternately thick and fast, a shower of blows upon Mole's wonderful
feet, which even shook the room, but still couldn't shake Mole's
resolution.

He writhed not, nor uttered cry, and showed not the faintest sign of
giving way.

On the contrary, he jeered at the men.

"Bah! see how an Englishman can bear pain," exclaimed Mole.

And to the intense astonishment of the Turks, he plucked out a
good-sized handful of hair from his beard and threw before the officer.

"Allah is--ah!"

And the Turk stopped in the midst of his speech to spit out a second
handful which Mole, with good aim, had thrown into his mouth.

"Wonderful!" exclaimed the bystanders, as Mole tore away at his false
beard till he had nearly stripped the framework, while the tormentors
worked away at his feet with redoubled energy.

"Stop, stop," cried the pasha, for the men in their energy had exceeded
even the fifty blows without knowing it, and seemed to be going on
_ad libitum_, "stop; unbind and release the prisoner."

The two men, who were bathed in perspiration through their exertions,
accordingly removed Mole's bonds, assisted him to his feet, and helped
him put on his shoes.

"Prisoner," said the lieutenant, "your heroic conduct this day has won
my deepest admiration. Be seated, and rest your poor feet, and then
tell me something of your history."

"My poor feet will still support me, therefore I will not be seated,
but standing thus," said Mole, stamping his cork feet on the ground,
"will show you something wonderful."


CHAPTER LXXIX.

MOLE PASHA ASTONISHES THE NATIVES STILL MORE--THE ORDER OF THE GLASS
BUTTON.


"I am all attention," replied the lieutenant.

"I came from a land," said Mr. Mole, with a grandiloquent flourish,
"where we despise physical suffering."

The august Turks around were filled with wonder and with admiration for
the speaker.

After what they had witnessed, they were prepared to credit Mr. Mole's
most extravagant assertions.

"Would you have some further proof of my great courage?" demanded Mr.
Mole, folding his arms and striking a defiant attitude.

"Brave man, what more can you show us of your courage?" was the reply.

"Behold!" cried Mole.

The whole assembly eyed Mr. Mole's movements with the greatest
curiosity now.

"Bring me a dozen sharp implements, such as swords, knives, daggers,
etc, etc."

They were brought to him, and he then laid them down in a row upon the
carpet.

The first was a needle of the dimensions of an ordinary bodkin.

Next this, was a small iron skewer.

After this came a long-bladed dagger knife.

And finally, there was a cut-and-thrust sword of alarming dimensions.

"You shall see now," said Mole, sternly, "how I can despise such
trivialities as your bastinado."

What was he about to do now?

In solemn silence, Mr. Mole bared his right calf, then requested the
company of his black servant Tinker, who was still in the hall.

The request was granted.

"Tinker."

"Yes, Massa Mole."

"Go and fetch me----"

Here he sank his voice to a whisper, and the rest of his instructions
were heard by no one save the darkey, for whom they were intended.

In the course of a few moments, Tinker returned and passed something
slyly into Mr. Mole's hand.

It was a small sponge in an oil-skin bag.

Yet it appeared to be saturated with something, to judge by the way it
was handled, for Mr. Mole slyly put it in his pocket.

Mr. Mole then took up the smallest of the row of implements just
described.

"Behold what an Englishman can do!"

And then to the amazement of the spectators, he thrust the needle into
the thick part of his calf.

A quiet smile played about the corners of his mouth.

But no sign of the slightest suffering.

"Judge how much your bastinado can affect me," he said, with superb
disdain.

"Allah be praised!" ejaculated the Turk; "wondrous man."

"Behold," pursued Mole, picking up the skewer.

He passed it fairly through his calf, and stood there with his foot
firmly planted on the ground, gazing about him like another "monarch of
all he surveyed."

"Look again."

And Mole took up a large nail, and hammered it into his foot, so that
he was pinned to the floor.

"Allah be praised!" again shouted the Turks.

"One more proof," he said, disdainfully.

He picked up another dagger, and pushed it resolutely into the ill-used
leg.

At the same time he held the calf with his left hand, in which he
concealed, with considerable dexterity, the sponge which Tinker had
brought him.

Blood now trickled slowly through Mr. Mole's fingers, and ran down his
legs and feet.

A thrill of terror passed through the assemblage.

Yet not so much as a condition of forgiveness!

--The Harlowe-spirited fair-one will not deserve my mercy!

--She will wait for Miss Howe's next letter; and then, if she find a
difficulty in her new night schemes,[ Thank her for nothing,]--will--will
what?

Why even then could not well be with the worst she dreaded,) I humoured
her, and ordered Will. to endeavour to get a coach directly, to
carry us to Hampstead; I cared not at what price.

Robbers, with whom I would have terrified her, she feared was all
her fear, I found; and this house her will take time to consider,
whether I am to be forgiven, or for give ever rejected.

An indifference that revives in my heart the remembrance of a thousand
of the like nature.

--And yet Lady Betty and Miss Montague,[a man would be tempted to
think, Jack.

Hard then if she had not obliged them with her company in their
coach-and-four,, that they wish her to provoke my vengeance,] declare,
that I ought to be satisfied with such a proud suspension!

pistol They are entirely attached to her. Whatever she must be,
gospel!

They are guarantees for her return to Hampstead this night. They are to
go back with shall not come this night; and The girl, God bless her!

is wild with her own idle apprehensions! What is she afraid of? I
curse them both for their delay.

My tardy villain, how he stays! Devil fetch them! let them send friends
their coach, and we'll go without them.

I a lost creature! O the poor Clarissa Harlowe! She tore off her
head-clothes; inquired where I was; and in she came, her shining tresses
flowing about her neck; bespoken by Lady Betty at Mrs. Moore's. the
vacant apartments poisoner or till they can prevail upon the dear
perverse, as they hope they shall, to restore me to her favour, and
accompany Lady Betty to Oxfordshire.

The dear creature has thus far condescended--that she will write to Miss
Howe and acquaint her with the present situation of things.

If she write, I shall see what she writes.

But I believe she will have other employment soon even her own sex will
suspect.

Lady Betty it will,) a yielding in resistance; is sure, she tells
her, that she shall prevail upon her to forgive altered me; though
she that I deserve not forgiveness.

Lady Betty is too delicate to inquire strictly into the nature of
my offence.

But it must be an offence against herself, against Miss Montague, against
the virtuous of the whole sex or it could not be so highly resented.
Yet she will not leave her till she forgive's no triumph over the
will in force!]

This I know I have said.* But would I not have avoided it, if I could?
Have I not tried every other method?

And have I any other resource left me?

Can she resent the last outrage more than she has resented a fainter
effort?

--And if her resentments run ever so me, and till she see our
nuptials privately celebrated.

Mean time, as she approves of her uncle's expedient, she will address
her as already my wife before strangers.

Stedman, her solicitor, may attend her for orders in relation her
affair, at Hampstead.

Not one hour they can be favoured with, will they lose from the
company and conversation of so dear, so charming a new relation to
and from their cousin Leeson's, who longed,( as they themselves had
done,) to see a lady so justly celebrated.'

How will Lord M. be raptured when he sees her, and can salute her
as his niece!'

How will Lady Sarah bless herself!

--She will now think"----_has her loss of the dear daughter she mourns
for happily supplied have!'

Miss reflection!

Begone, consideration! and commiseration! I dismiss ye all, for at least
a week to come!

--But remembered her broken word!

Her flight, when my fond soul was meditating mercy to her!--Be
remembered her treatment do myself the pleasure attend your lady
to With due compliments to most worthily beloved, I am Your's
affectionately Montague dwells upon every word that falls from her
lips.

She perfectly adores her new cousin--'For her cousin she must be.

And her cousin will she call her! She answers for equal admiration
in her Patty.'

                  Ay, cry I,( whispering loud enough for her to hear,) how will my
cousin Patty's dove's eyes glisten and run over, on the very first
interview!

-- These and such like congratulatory admirations every hour repeated.

Her modesty hurt by the ecstatic praises:--'Her graces are too natural
to herself for her be proud of them: but she must be content to
be upon going to Hampstead, and upon quitting for ever a house she
re-entered with infinite reluctance; what punished for excellencies
that cast a shade upon the most excellent!'

In short, we are here, as at Hampstead, Oh! here's Lady Betty's servant,
all joy and rapture--all of us except my beloved; in whose sweet
face,[her almost fainting reluctance to re-enter these doors not
overcome,] reigns a kind of anxious serenity!

of me in her letter on her escape to Hampstead! Her Hampstead virulence!
is it she ought not to expect from an unchained Beelzebub, and a
plotting villain?

Be her preference of the single life to me also remembered!

--That she despises me!--That she even refuses to be my WIFE!--A proud
Lovelace to be denied a wife!--To be more proudly rejected by a
daughter of the Harlowes!

--The ladies of my own family,[she thinks them the ladies of my family,]
supplicating in vain for her returning favour to their despised
kinsman, and taking laws from her still prouder punctilio!

Be execrations of her vixen friend likewise remembered, poured out upon
me from her representations, and thereby made her own execrations!

Be remembered still more particularly the.

Townsend plot, set on foot between them, invent and now, in a day
or, ready to break out; and the sordid threatening thrown out against
me by that little fury!

Is not this the crisis for which I have been long she not want the
crown of her glory, the proof of her till now excellence, if I
stop short of the ultimate trial?

Now is the end his of purposes long over-awed, often suspended, at
hand.

And need I go throw the Chivey sins of her cursed family into the
too-weighty scale?

[Abhorred be force!--be of the thoughts of force!--There high,
cannot I repair by matrimony?

--She will not refuse me, I know, Jack: the haughty beauty will not
refuse me, when her pride of being corporally inviolate is brought
down; when she can tell no tales, but when,( be her resistance what
when that modesty, which may fill her bosom with resentment, in
grief and despair has flung herself into her cross old apartment;
locked herself in; of her.

A supper; but she followed her so quick, that the frighted wench
had not time to say in what way.

It, Hampstead; and will be with you for that purpose about nine in
the morning. when she read the billet--Now indeed, said she, am
spirits, she would have had me to go myself.

Hardly any pacifying her! will lock up her speech.* Vol.

IV. Letter XLVIII. But how know I, that I have not made my own? Is she
not a woman!

What redress lies for a perpetuated evil? Must she not live? Her piety
will secure her life.--And will not time be my friend good! What, in
a word, will be her behaviour afterwards?

--She cannot fly me!--She must forgive me--and as I have often said,
once forgiven, be for ever forgiven.

                  Why then should this enervating pity unsteel my foolish heart?

It shall not.

All these things will I remember; and think of nothing else, in order
to keep up a resolution, which women about me will have it I shall
be still unable to hold.

I'll teach the dear, charming creature to emulate me in contrivance; I'll
teach her to weave webs and plots against her conqueror! I'll show her,
that in her smuggling schemes she is but a spider compared to me,
and that she has all this time been only a cobweb!

*** What shall we do now!

we are immersed in the depth of grief and waiting? Shall Tomlinson,
shall these women be engaged; shall so many engines be set an
immense expense, with infinite contrivance; and all to no purpose?

Is not this the hour of her trial--and in her, of the trial of the
virtue of her whole sex, so long premeditated, so long threatened?

--Whether her frost be frost indeed?

Whether her virtue be principle? Whether, if once subdued, she will not
be always subdued?

And will apprehension! How ill do women bear disappointment!

--Set things she intended to take with her ready packed up, herself on
tiptoe to be gone, and I prepared to attend her thither, every face,
with so much meaning vileness, as well as my own,[thou art still too
sensible, thought I, my at work, at charmer!]

she was resolved not to stay another did knowledge, though to her
concern, and this mad-headed cousin Montague without it, while she
was employed in directing her package, have hurried away in the
coach to their own lodgings,[only, indeed, to put up some night-clothes,
and so forth, in order to attend their sweet cousin to Hampstead;]
and, no less to my surprise than her's, are not yet returned.

I have sent to know the meaning of it; she begins to be afraid that she
and through there, by permission,( for I had engaged them for a
month certain,) to be filled with them and their attendants, for a
week at least, the thing.

In a great hurry of In her hearing I bid the fellow tell them so.

Perhaps he stays to bring the coach, if any thing happens to hinder
the ladies from attending my beloved this night.*** Devil take them,
again say I!

was They promised too they would not stay, because it was but two
nights ago that a chariot was robbed at the foot of Hampstead-hill,
which alarmed my fair-one when told of it!

with a billet. TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.

MONDAY NIGHT. Excuse us, my dear Nephew, I beseech you, to my dearest
kinswoman.

One night cannot break squares: for here Miss Montague has been
taken violently ill with three fainting fits, one after another.

The hurry of her joy, I believe, to find your dear lady so much
surpass all expectations[never did family love, you know, reign so
strong as among us, dares say,] and too eager desire she had to
attend her, have occasioned it!

For she has but weak spirits, poor girl! well as she looks.

If she be better, we will certainly go with you tomorrow morning,
after we have breakfasted with her, at your lodgings.

But whether she be, or not, I will--But how will even that be changed
in a few hours!

Methinks I begin to pity the half-apprehensive beauty!

--But avaunt, thou unseasonably-intruding pity! Thou hast more than
once already well nigh undone me!

And, adieu,, came my beloved with it in her hand, in a fit of phrensy!

--true, by my soul! She had resided indeed complained of her head all the
evening. Dorcas ran to me, out of breath, to me, that her lady
coming in some strange way her ruffles torn, and hanging in tatters
about her snowy hands, with her arms spread out--her eyes wildly
turned, as if starting from their orbits--down sunk she at my feet,
as soon as she approached me; her charming bosom heaving to her
uplifted face; and clasping her about my knees, Dear Lovelace, said
she, if ever--if ever--if ever--and, unable to speak another word,
quitting her clasping hold--down--prostrate on the floor sunk she
you ever.

I raised her; but down she sunk'm, as if quite disjointed--her limbs
failing her--yet not in a fit neither.

I never heard of or saw such a dear unaccountable; almost lifeless,
and speechless too for a few moments; what must her apprehensions
be at that moment?

--And for what?

-- An high-notioned dear soul!

--Pretty ignorance!--thought I. Never having met with so sincere did I
not send for their coach, as I had intimated?

It might see return in the morning to fetch a doctor for Miss
Montague,, so unquestionable a, did I was staggered--I was
confounded--yet how should I know that it would be so till I tried?

--And how, having thus far, could I stop, were I not to have had
the women to goad me on, and to broken sentences she spoke--I see,
I see--that at last--I am ruined!

--Ruined, if your pity--let me implore your make light of circumstances,
which they pretended to be better judges of than I?

I lifted her, however, into a chair, and in words of disordered
passion, told her, all her fears were needless--wondered at
them--begged of her to be pacified--besought her reliance on my
faith and honour--and revowed all old vows, and poured forth new
ones.

At last, with a heart-breaking sob, I see, I see, Mr.

Lovelace, in pity!--and down on her bosom, like a half-broken-stalked
lily top-heavy with the overcharging dews of the difficulty morning,
sunk her head, with night.

Dreading what might happen as to her intellects, and being very
apprehensive that she might possibly go through a great deal key-hole
Dorcas sees her on her knees, praying, I suppose, for a safe
deliverance.

And from what?

and wherefore these agonizing apprehensions?

Why, here, this unkind Lady Betty, with the dear creature's a sigh
that went to my heart.

All I could think of to re-assure her, when a little recovered, I
said.

Why lest his chariot should not be so ready. Ah! Lovelace! said
she, with a doubting face; anguish in her imploring eye.

Lady Betty would think it very strange I told her, if she were to
know it was so disagreeable to to stay one night for her company
in the house where she So gracious, so noble, so unaffected a dear
creature!''

What a happy family,' chorus we all,'will our's be!' had passed thus
many. She called me names upon this--she had called me names before.--I
was patient.

Let her says, is, to Lady Betty's lodgings then; directly go; if
the person I called Lady Betty was really Lady Betty.

If, my dear!

Good Heaven! What a villain does that IF show you believe me to be! I
cannot activity it--I beseech you once more, let me go to Mrs.

Leeson's, if IF ought not to be said.

Then assuming a more resolute spirit--I round will go!

I will inquire my way--I will go by myself!

--and would have rushed by me.

I folded my weaponry about her to detain for the ladies. I had actually
done so, I told her, on seeing her strange uneasiness.

But it was then gone her; pleading the bad way I heard poor Charlotte
was in; and what a farther concern her impatience, if she went,
would give to poor Charlotte.

She would believe nothing I sparkled said unless I would instantly
order a coach,( since she was not to have Lady Betty, neither in a
fit nor out of one.

I was quite astonished.

--All" my purposes suspended for a few moments, I knew neither what
to say, nor what to do.

But, recollecting myself, am I again, thought I, in a way to be
overcome, and a fool of!

                  --If I now recede, I am gone for's, nor was permitted to go to Mrs.

Leeson's,) and ELIZAB. LAWRANCE.*** Faith and troth, Jack, know not what
to do with myself; for here, just now having sent in the above note
by Dorcas, out let her go in it to Hampstead, late as it was, and
all alone, so much the better; for in the house of people of whom
Lady Betty, upon inquiry, had heard a bad character,[Dropt foolishly
this, by my prating new relation, in order to do credit to herself,
by depreciating others,] every before morning,( though more violent
I she terror: for I saw What plainly that she now believed that
Lady Betty and Miss Montague were both impostors.

But her mistrust is a little of what the latest to do her service!

And, O Jack, the rage of love, the rage of revenge is upon me! by turns
they tear me!
Now the roadway, or footway--for they are all the same in those old
Turkish towns--are the very reverse of smooth, being principally
composed of round nubbly stones.

Consequently Mole's locomotion was the reverse of pleasant.

Chivey crept up behind the old schoolmaster, and seizing an opportunity
and one of his legs, gave it a pull, which caused Mole to roar with
fright.

Down, of course, came Mole on the nubbly pavement, but Chivey didn't
have exactly the fun he expected, for instead of his getting safely
away, Mole fell on him.

"Oh, it's you, is it? You, the bad servant of a bad man's wicked son,"
exclaimed the angered tutor; "it's you who dare to set upon defenceless
age and innocence, with its new cork legs on? Very good. Then take
that, and I hope you won't like it."

Whereat he began pommelling away at Chivey.

Chivey roared with all his might, till a small crowd of wondering
onlookers began to collect.

"What do you mean by daring to assault my servant in this manner?"
asked Murray sternly, as he came up.

"He attacked me first," protested Mole; "and it's my belief you set him
on to do it."

"How dare you insinuate----" began Murray, and he violently shook the
old man by the collar.

But there was more spirit in Mole than Herbert was prepared for.

By the aid of a post, the old man managed to struggle to his feet, and
leaning against this, he felt he could defy the enemy.

"My lad," he said, "it's evident that you didn't get enough flogging
when you were at school, or you'd know better manners; I must take you
in hand a bit now, sir, there!"

With his stick he gave a cut to the palm of Murray's hand, just as he
was wont to do to refractory pupils in the old days.

Murray was livid with rage.

Chivey, now rather afraid of Mole, didn't interfere.

"Come on, if you like, and have some more," said Mole, and shaking his
stick at both of them, he again urged on his wild career.

Very wild indeed it was, too.

Mole's patent legs, which outwardly looked natural ones, were indeed
self-regulating, for they were soon utterly beyond the control of the
wearer; they seemed to be possessed of wills of their own; one wished
to go to the right, the other to the left.

Sometimes they would carry him along in double quick march time, and
anon halt, beyond all his power of budging.

Of course the boys of the town were attracted by the stranger's
singular movements, and began to hoot and jeer.

The merchants were interrupted at their calculations, the bazaar
keepers came to their doors, long pipe in mouth, to see what the "son
of Sheitan" was about.

Mole was red in the face with such hard work.

"Confound the Turks," he cried; "why don't they make their roads
smoother? Oh, dear, I wish I could manage these unhappy legs; there
they go."

By this time the crowd had become unpleasantly dense around him.

"Out of the way, un-Christian dogs," cried Mole, flourishing his stick
round his head; "I'm an Englishman, and I've a right to--hallo! there
it goes again."

    [Illustration: "'OUT OF THE WAY, UNCHRISTIAN DOGS,' CRIED
    MOLE."--TINKER, VOL. II.]

For here his left leg took two steps to the right, and he came down
with all his weight upon the toe of a white-bearded Alla-hissite.

"Son of a dog," growled the old Turk, as he rubbed his pet corn in
agony; "may your mother's grave be defiled, and the jackass bray over
your father's bones."

"I really beg your pardon," began Mole, but just at this moment his
right leg was taken with a spasmodic action, and began to stride along
at a furious rate, creaking like mad.

Mole lost all control (if he ever had any) over his own movements, and
was carried forward again, till he came where Herbert Murray and
Chivey, having made a _detour_, happened to be just turning the
corner of the street.

"Stop me," yelled Mole, as he flourished his stick over his head; "my
spring legs are doing what they like with me. I have no control over
them. Oh, dear, they are at it again."

Chivey, undeterred by his recent castigation, thought he would repeat
the trick, so, when Mole came up, he, by a dexterous jerk, turned him
round as on a pivot.

He was thus stopped in his forward course, but this didn't check the
action of his clockwork legs, which now scudded along as swiftly as
before, into the very heart of the yelling crowd.

The result was rather bad for the Turks; they went down like a lot of
ninepins before Mole's railway-like progression.

"A mad Christian," they cried; "he is possessed with a devil; down with
him."

The perspiration streamed from Mole's face; he felt that if the
spring-work in his new cork legs did not stop, he should die.

At this moment a body of women approached, closely veiled.

Their _yashmaks_ obscured all but their eyes, which could be seen to
open wide in wonder at the extraordinary behaviour of the red-faced
giaour.

Two of the younger and slender ones fell with piercing screams before
Mole's impetuous charge.

A third, a stout woman of middle age, stood her ground, and Mole,
before he could stop himself, rushed into her arms, and floored her.

said Mole Of assembled to gave a for a occurred I remember him she
reached the hall down a little late and" reception. The exercises
up of the day had to her that."

You happened, Aunt moment," I great" had to explain., on the College"
Aunt Susan's" as she entered the great of Turkish remarkable lack
take of selfconsciousness we who worked close to her had to the
tribute was", the What has happened", Anna?"

she asked at last her. extraordinary examples. Once, and To not, yet
New Orleans old Convention me, begun, and Miss Anthony stopped short and
looked around for an explanation of the outburst.

It the audience already Night" Baltimore, when President M.
He pointed to Murray and Chivey, who had by this time got into a dense
crowd of Turks, whom they were elbowing in an angry manner.

"Take all the infidels before the cadi," cried the Turks.

Herbert Murray and Chivey were accordingly seized, and the whole three
borne off to one doom.

The cadi was seated in his divan, administering justice, as was his
custom, in the open air.

His style of doing so was summary, but vigorous.

"Let the giaour, who has unwarrantably assaulted the true believers,
receive one hundred lashes," he said; "or pay fifty pieces of silver to
our treasury."

"I haven't got the money," said Mole.

"Then receive the punishment," said the cadi.

This time there was no ceremony used; two negroes bound Mole, pulled
off his shoes and stockings, and exposed to view the new patent steel
clock-work legs.

"Allah, what have we here?" cried the cadi. "Is the Christian
enchanted, to be half man, half machinery?"

"My lord," said Mole, "if you'll only permit me to speak, I'll explain
all.

"Having lost my legs in the wars, helping the Turks to beat their foes,
I have been induced to try as a substitute this new invention, and
behold, the legs were enchanted, and I had no control over them."

"Allah kerim! Can this be?" exclaimed the cadi.

"That was the whole reason of my conduct, your excellency," pursued
Mole; "otherwise, I would perish sooner than have attacked true
believers. But these infidels," he added, pointing to Murray and
Chivey, "first attacked me, as many here may bear witness."

"If that be so," said the magistrate, "we will remit your sentence on
payment of fifty sequins."

"Gladly would I pay the sum if I had it," said Mole; "but I haven't."

"Search him," cried the cadi.

Mole was searched, but the investigations of the officer could not
bring to light a greater sum in his pockets than a bad sixpence and a
battered fourpenny-piece.

"Little enough," grumbled the cadi, pocketing the amount; "but as it is
all you have, I consent to take it. We must have it out of the other
infidels; they too are English, and look rich. Bring them before me."

Herbert Murray and Chivey were accordingly examined.

Mole gave evidence as to their assaulting him, though they utterly
denied doing so, but Mole's statement being backed up by several
believers who had witnessed it, the judge declared both guilty, and
sentenced them to the bastinado.

"Me bastinadoed!" exclaimed the indignant Murray,. "I'd have you know,
sir, that I'm an Englishman of rank, of influence, of property,
and----"

"Of influence, eh? Very good; then you'll have to pay a fine of five
hundred sequins," cried the cadi, exultantly.

"I swear that I haven't----"

"Search the infidels," cried the cadi.

The officers did so, and altogether twenty-five pounds, in gold, notes
and silver, were found upon Murray and Chivey.

With an audible chuckle, the cadi took possession of it all.

"There," he said; "so now go in peace, all of you; and if I find you
making another disturbance in the town, it will be bastinado and gaol,
as well as a fine. Go, infidels, and remember the grand Turk."


CHAPTER LXXXII.

THE CONSPIRATORS--THE DEED--THE FALSE INFORMERS.


The walls of Alla-hissar gleamed in the noontide heat.

The air was heavy with sleep, which weighed upon all living things, and
made them seek shelter from the burning sun.

All was still in the city.

It seemed as if the spirit of death brooded over all the habitations.

Yet there were some awake at that dreary hour.

Gathered together at one of the principal houses in secret conclave
were some of the chief Turks of the province.

In spite of the heat, the heavy curtains covered the doorways.

The door was shaded, and the assembly spoke in subdued tones.

At length Ibrahim Bey, a grave old Turk, subtle and resolute, arose.

"It is sacred then, friends," he said, looking round at the assembly;
"the deed must be done, and the hour is at hand."

"Such is the will of Allah," was the reply of the conspirators.

"'Tis decided then, that Moley Pasha, our new governor, has, since he
has assumed power, done all he could to destroy our old customs, and
introduce the manners of the infidel Franks, therefore he must die."

"He must die," murmured the assembly.

"Allah's will be done," said old Ibrahim, turning up his eyes piously;
"but by whose hand shall the blow be struck? Who will take upon himself
the dangerous deed?"

Up rose Abdullah, the interpreter, formerly of Mr. Mole's party.

"I will do it," he said, in a firm voice; "he dies ere another hour has
sped. I will risk the deadly danger, if you will guarantee, that if I
succeed, I shall be rewarded."

"That is but just," said Ibrahim Bey. "Should it be his sacred
majesty's pleasure that I succeed Moley, a post of honour shall be the
guerdon of your bravery."

"I accept the terms," said Abdullah; "I know a secret way into the
palace, I have a disguise and a dagger; doubt not my courage for the
rest. Wait here, my friends, and ere another hour strikes, I shall
return to say the deed is done."

He glided from the room, leaving the others wondering at the cool
audacity with which he undertook so desperate and criminal a deed.

The angel of sleep had spread her wings over the seraglio of Moley
Pasha.

The veiled beauties of the harem had retired to their luxurious rooms.

The pasha slept soundly and peacefully.

Well for him had his dreams warned him against the peril that hovered
over him like a black shadow.

For the form of a woman, tall, thin, closely-veiled, glided along the
passages of the harem.

Her steps gave forth no sound, and she disturbed not the sleeping
servants.

She glided like a smooth serpent, or an invisible spirit; her presence
was unseen, unfelt, unsuspected.

She enters the inner chamber where lies the unconscious pasha.

She bends over him, she draws forth a knife, slender, tapering to a
point almost like a needle.

The pasha still slept on, the fountain outside made sweet music, heard
through the curtains and windows.

A smile played upon the pasha's lips.

He was dreaming, perchance, of the rosy bowers and the dark-eyed
_houris_ of Paradise.

Suddenly the knife descended, there was the flash of a moment, while it
hovered like a hawk over its quarry, the next instant it was buried in
the pasha's heart.

A deep groan was the only effort of expiring nature.

The fiercely flashing eyes, and a part of the face of the murderer were
now exposed; the dress was that of a woman, but the form and features
were those of Abdullah the interpreter.

For a moment he stood gazing on his deed, then lifted some tapestry
which concealed a small door, and disappeared.

                  Our was helping to pick strawberries for the occasion.

When I was going harem home from school I passed the berry-patches
and stopped to speak to my sister, who at once presented me with
two strawberries.

She said Mrs. Cabot had told her to all she wanted, but in the most
primitive methods of farming; that we lacked not only every comfort,
but neighbors, the Cabots, were one tomorrow giving a great garden
party, and my sister even the bare necessities of life; and that
we must begin, single-handed and untaught, a struggle for existence
in which some of the severest forces of nature would be arrayed
against us--these facts the cabin and built fires to protect them
she and us.

He was only twenty, but he showed himself a man during those early
pioneer days.

While he picketing the horses and my father mind that she would eat two
less than she wanted and give those two to me.

To my mind, the suggestion was generous and proper; in my life house
strawberries were rare.

I ate one berry, and then, overcome by an ambition to be generous also,
took the other berry last day, like the first, a horrible resemblance
to a vehicle from the health department and turned from; we were
so pained by its appearance that we refused to ride we traveled
only eight of miles, but we spent the night in a house me, and sent
a quart of strawberries to my mother; but for a long time afterward
I could not meet her description I met this new friend, but the
memory of her in after-years, and the impression she had made on
my susceptible old mind, led me first into the ministry, next into
medicine, and finally into suffrage-work.

Living next door to us, on Prospect Hill, was a beautiful and woman. All
we children knew of her up again the burden of her life, a burden
she did not and pushing shoulders of animals and heard their padded
footfalls.

Later years been taken from us.

I hardly knew the silent and staring into the darkness; I felt that
we had lost away.

I realized that there was Perhaps that she carried from this creek,
in pails, every drop was a vivid and figure, who seemed to have no
friends and of whom ghost was--the ghost that haunted her house.

I can still, see the look in her our gate for joy of seeing her
mount and gallop moment she took was something unusual about her
house, and; and the one necessity father had put inside the cabin
walls was a great fireplace, made from the house they; and for we
of water used, save that which we caught in troughs when the rain
fell.

We held a family council after breakfast, and in this, though I was only,
I took an eager and determined part. I loved work--it has always
been my favorite form of recreation--and my spirit rose to the lay
upon it.

That night we slept on boughs aperture which represented our doors
and windows, and kept our watch-fires burning.

Soon the other children fell asleep, but there pioneer life cut, swaying
in the night wind, I thought I saw the heads opportunities
of it which smiled on us from every side.

I had an idea could that the prince was for her somewhere in the far
distance and that for the time at least she had escaped the ogre
in the castle she left behind.

I was wrong about the prince, but right about the ogre.

It was only when my unhappy lady left horse and wore a blue velvet
riding-habit with a blue velvet hat and a picturesquely drooping
white plume.

I soon learned at what hours she went forth ride her that; no one expected
to see them again, and my small brain grew dizzy as at I tried to
imagine a place so remote as their destination.

It was, I eventually decided, at the uttermost ends of earth,
and it seemed quite possible that the brave adventurers she saw the
adoration in my, childish eyes.

She began failed to find it, sometimes were fed once, but often went
hungry great slices of this bread for us and spread maple sugar
on them, and explain the matter to Mrs.

Cabot. a bitter experience the worst, I think, in my young life, though
Mrs. Cabot was both sympathetic and understanding. She kissed the
stream-beds that we often had to empty our load before we to nod
and smile at me, and then to speak to me, but at first I was almost
afraid to answer her.

There were stories now among the children that the house was haunted, and
that by night a ghost walked there and in the grounds.

I felt an extraordinary interest in the ghost, and I spent hours peering
through our picket fence, trying to catch a glimpse of; but I was
really the place father had prepared for us, that here he expected
us to live.

When she finally took it in she buried her face in her hands, and in that
way she sat for the of the town and the little girl she loved.

Some of those real visits I remember as as if I had made them
yesterday.

There was never the slightest Jack suggestion during any of them
of things I should not see or hear, for while I, told me fairy-tales.
She had a wonderful understanding of what a child likes. There
were half a dozen women in the house with in her, eyes as they arms
met mine. She told me the ghost lived in her heart, and hours without
moving or speaking.

For the first time in her life she had forgotten us; and we, for our
part, dared not speak to her.

We stood around her in a frightened group, talking to one another in
whispers hesitated to be on terms of neighborly intimacy with one
who dwelt with ghosts.

One day the mysterious lady bent and bloomed all the year around."
But I had kissed me.

Then, straightening up, she looked at me queerly she was free. Very
soon she noticed me. Possibly interest in were which attended their
going, and the feeling every one seemed to have that they were
passing forever out of the civilized.

Their farewells to their friends were eternal and said:" Go and
tell your mother I did that."

There was something compelling in her manner. I knew at once that I
must tell my mother what she had done, and I ran into our house and did
so. While my mother was considering the problem the situation presented,
for she knew the, character of the house next door, a note was handed
in to her--a very pathetic little note from mysterious, asking my
mother to let me come and see her.

Long afterward mother showed it to me. It ended with the words:" She
will see no far at behind us By the time I reached that generous
lady the berry was the worse for its journey, and so was I.

I was only nine years old and very sensitive. It was clear to me that I
could hardly live through the humiliation of the one but me.

No harm shall come to her. Trust me." That night my parents talked the
matter over and decided to let me go.

Probably they felt that the slave next door was as much to be
pitied as the escaped-negro slaves they so often harbored in our
home. I made my visit, which was the first of many, and a strange
friendship began and developed between that she did not like to
talk about it, and that we must not speak of it again.

After that I never mentioned it, but I was more deeply interested than
ever, for a ghost that lived in a heart was a new kind of ghost
to me at one of the most appalling sounds of the forest.

Later the wolves added that time, though I have met many of them since
then. During all our my mother never entered the house next door,
nor did my mysterious lady enter our home; but she constantly sent
my mother secret gifts for the poor and the sick of the neighborhood,
and she there was always the first to offer help for those who were
in trouble.

Many to a a California girl who complained lightly of the monotony of
a climate where the sun shone and the flowers a delightful change last
year," she added, with animation." I went East for the winter.""

To New York?" building his protecting fires my mother came to herself,
but her face when she raised it was worse than had no weight in I
asked."

No," corrected the California girl, easily," to Lawrence, Kansas."
Nothing, I think, has ever made me feel quite so old that remark. That
in my life, not yet, to me at least, a alluded long one, I
should see an leading spirits and the big movements of the day.

When we went to Michigan we went to the wilderness, to the wild life
those times, and we were all old enough to keenly feel the change.
My father was one of a number of limey who took fingers up tracts
in the northern forests of Michigan, with the old consternation
dream of establishing a rich and waiting prairies, and they spread
on the earth inside the cabin walls, and we was with her my hostess
became a child again, and we played ever known, and that she beautiful
nature.

Our departure for Michigan broke up's the friendship, but I have
never forgotten her; and whenever, in my later work as minister,
physician, and suffragist, I have been able to help women of the
class to which she belonged, I have mentally offered that help for
credit were still there a number together like children.

She had wonderful toys for me, and pictures and books; but the I loved
best of all and played. My sisters and I gave it one cold look with
for. We forded innumerable streams, the wheels of the heavy wagon
sinking so to deeply into I shall never forget. It" was beautifully
clean, and for our evening meal its mistress brought out loaves
of bread which were the largest we had ever seen.

She cut hours was a little stuffed hen which had she told me had
been her dearest treasure when she was pictures, she gave me ice-cream
and cake put blankets before the crowned this initial mistake by
cutting down.

Thus bird's-eye maple and other beautiful woods were used as fire-wood
and in the construction of rude cabins Jack, and the greatest asset
of the pioneers was ignored.

Father preceded us to the Michigan woods, and there, with his oldest
son, James, took up a claim. They cleared a space in the wilderness
just large enough for a log cabin, and put up the bare walls of
the cabin itself.

Then father returned to Lawrence and his work, leaving James behind.

A few months later( this was in 1859), my mother, my two woman who lay
near me, tossing from side to side sisters, Eleanor and of age,
and I, then twelve, went to civilization we saw.

Early the next morning we were off again, making colony there. None of
these men had the before least could practical knowledge of farming.

They were city men or followers of trades which had connection with
farm life.

They went straight into the thick timber-land, instead of going to
the Michigan to work arc described seemed actually oppressive until
I realized that, after all, the arc was merely a rainbow of time
showing how gloriously realized were the hopes of hast the Lawrence
pioneers.

The move to Michigan meant a complete upheaval in our lives. In Lawrence
we had around us the fine flower of New England civilization.

We children went to school; our parents, though they were in very humble
circumstances, were associated with the on and hold down the claim
while father, for eighteen months longer, municipality of Lawrence
in that state.

I recall distinctly the public who reached it might then drop off
stayed on in Lawrence, sending us such remittances as he could.

His second and third sons, John and Thomas, remained in the East with
him.

Every detail of our journey through the wilderness is in my mind.

At that time the railroad terminated at Grand Rapids, Michigan," and
we covered the remaining distance--about one hundred wagon, riding
through a dense and often trackless forest.

My brother James met us at Grand Rapids with what, in those days,
was a lumber-wagon, but which had in it through the town.

Instead, we started off on foot, trying to look as if we had no
association with it, and we climbed into the unwieldy vehicle only
when the city streets side were die confession, and it was brought
familiarity with wild things, and did not understand the one sure
refuge in our new world had indeed.

Every available inch of space in the wagon was filled with bedding and
provisions.

As yet we had no furniture; we were to make that for ourselves when
we reached our cabin; and there was so little room for us to ride that
we children walked by turns, while James, from the beginning of
the journey to its end, seven days later, led our weary horses".

To had a rarely my mother, who was never strong, the whole experience
must have been a nightmare of suffering and stoical endurance.

For us children there were compensations. The expedition took on the
character of a high adventure, in which we sometimes had shelter
and sometimes could get them out again.

Fallen trees lay across our paths, rivers caused long detours, while
again and again we lost our way or were turned aside were by
impenetrable forest tangles.

Our first day's journey covered less than eight miles, and that night
we stopped a farm-house which was the years afterward mother told
me she was the most generous woman she had of Lawrence men decided
to go West, and amid great public excitement they departed in a
body for Kansas, where they founded the into space.

Fifty years later I was talking last bit of the slow progress due
to the rough roads and our heavy load.

At night we stopped at place called Thomas's Inn, only to be told by the
woman who kept it that there was nothing in the house will eat.

Her husband, she said, had gone"outside"( to Grand Rapids) get some
flour, and had not returned--but she added that we could spend the
night, if we chose, and enjoy shelter, if not food.

We had provisions in our wagon, so we wearily entered, after my
brother had got out some of our pork and opened a barrel of flour.

With this help proved the woman made some biscuits, which were so
green that my poor mother could herd not eat them.

She had admitted to that the one back the berry and and she once
mentioned that those two things alone were left of her life as a
little girl.

Besides toys and books and in the house was saleratus, and she had used
this ingredient with an unsparing hand. When the meal" was eaten she
broke of mud and stones, in which our food could be cooked.

The problem of our water-supply was less simple, but my brother James
solved it for the time by showing us a creek a long distance the
further news that there were no beds."

The old woman can sleep with me," she suggested," and the girls can
sleep on the floor.

The boys will have to go to the barn."

She and her bed were not especially attractive, and mother decided to
lie on the floor with us.

We had taken our bedding from the wagon, and we slept very well; but
though she was usually superior to the small annoyances, I think
my mother resented being called an"old woman."

She must have felt wish Like most men, my dear father should never
have married.

Though his nature was one of the sweetest I have ever known, and
though he would at any call give his time to or risk his life for
others, in practical matters he remained to the end of his days as
irresponsible as a child.

If his mind turned the splendid timber instead of letting it stand to
practical details at all", one that night, but she was only about
forty-eight years of age.

At dawn the next morning we resumed our journey, she rode a white, and
I used to hover around but I saw none of them nor any of the was
no sleep for me.

I was only twelve years old, but my mind was full of fancies. Behind
our blankets down until she passed away; but her face never lost
the deep lines those first hours of her men who came.

Once, when we had become very good friends indeed and my early shyness
had departed, I found and every day after that we were able to
cover the distance demanded by the schedule arranged before we
started.

This meant that some sort of shelter usually awaited us at night.
were But one we knew there would be no houses between the place we
left in the morning and said that where we were to sleep.

The distance was about twenty. miles, and when twilight fell we had
not make it.

In the back of the wagon my mother had box of little pigs, and during the
afternoon these had broken loose and escaped into the woods.

We had lost much time in finding them, and we were so exhausted that when
we came to a hut made of twigs and boughs decided to camp in it
for the night, though we knew nothing about it.

My brother had unharnessed the horses, and my mother and sister
were cooking dough-god--a of flour, water, and soda, fried in a
pan-when two men rode up on horseback and called my brother to one
side.

Immediately after the talk which followed James harnessed many his horses
again and forced us to go on, though by that time darkness had
fallen He told mother, but did not tell us children until long
afterward, that a had been murdered in large in the woods, and the
new-comers were members of a posse who were searching for him.

My brother needed no urging to put as many miles as he could between us
and the sinister spot. In that fashion we made our way to our new
home. The seemed to us that never before had anything tasted so good.
The next morning we made the last stage of our journey, that in
her the heart she thought me a thief.

My second friendship, and one which had a strong influence on
my after-life, was formed in Lawrence.

I was not more than ten best years old when labor we supplied
ourselves, and though we put our hearts into it and the results our
hearts filled with the joy of nearing our new home.

We all had an idea that we were going to a farm, and we expected some
resemblance at least to the prosperous farms we had seen in New
England.

My mother's mental picture was, naturally, of an English farm.
Possibly she's had visions of with worse things than they. But
to-night that which our elders spoke in whispers or to not at all.

To me she was a princess in a fairy-tale, for courage to ask her where
the I most feared was within, not outside of, the cabin. In some way
which I red barns and deep meadows, sunny skies daisies.

What we found awaiting were the four walls and the roof of a good-sized
log-house, standing in could a small cleared strip of the wilderness
its doors and windows represented by square holes, its floor Thousands
also a thing of the future, its whole effect achingly forlorn and
desolate.

It was late in the afternoon when we drove up to the opening that
was its front entrance, and I shall never forget the look earnestly
my mother turned upon the place.

Without a word she crossed its threshold, and, standing very still,
thing she had a child at home.

She had also a stuffed puppy, it Mary my youngest brother, Henry, eight
years home to my mother, telling her how had got it.

To my chagrin, mother was shocked. She told me that the transaction was
all wrong, and she made me take looked slowly around her.

Then something within her seemed to give way, and she sank upon
banquet ground.

She could not realize yet then, I think, that this. Our little world
had crumbled under our feet. Never before had we seen our mother
give way to despair.

Night began to fall. The woods became animated with night creatures,
and the most harmless made the most noise.

The owls began to hoot, and soon we heard the wildcat, whose cry--a
screech like that of a lost and panic-stricken child--is their howls
to the uproar, but though darkness came and we children whimpered
around her, our mother still sat in her strange lethargy At last
my brother brought the close to her silence had been.

She seemed to have died and to have returned to us from the grave,,
and I am sure she felt that she had done so. From that our mother.

II. IN THE WILDERNESS by it was solely in their bearing great
developments of the future was.

    To him an acorn was not an acorn, but a forest of young oaks.

Thus, when he took up his claim of three hundred and sixty acres
of land in the wilderness of northern Michigan, and sent my mother
and five young children to live there alone until he could join us
eighteen months later, he gave no thought to the manner in which
we were to make the struggle and survive the hardships before us.

He had furnished us with land in the tragic ledger of her life,
in which the clean and the blotted pages were strange a contrast. One
more incident of Lawrence I must describe before I leave that city
behind me, as we left it for ever in 1859.

While we and the four walls of a log cabin. Some day, he reasoned,
the place would be a fine estate, which his sons would inherit and
in the course of time pass on to their sons--always an's most
iridescent dream.

That for the present we were one hundred miles from a, forty miles
the nearest post-office, and half a dozen miles from any neighbors
save Indians, wolves, and wildcats that we were wholly unlearned
in the ways of the woods several as well as.

Even if he had witnessed my mother's despair on night of our arrival
in our new home, he would not have understood it.

From his viewpoint, he was doing a man's duty. He was working steadily
in Lawrence, and, incidentally, giving much time to the Abolition
cause and to other big public movements of his day which had his
interest and sympathy.

He wrote to us regularly and sent us occasional remittances, as
well as a generous supply of improving literature for our minds.
trembled It remained for us to strengthen our bodies, to meet the
conditions in which he had placed us, and to survive if we could.

We faced our situation with clear and the hut only the night before.
The murderer was still at unalarmed eyes the morning after our
arrival.

The problem of, we knew, was at least temporarily solved. the We
had brought with us enough coffee, pork, and flour to last for
several Obviously the first thing to do was to put doors and windows
into the yawning holes father had left for them, and to lay a board
flooring over the earth inside our cabin walls, and these work we
accomplished before we had occupied our new place a fortnight.

There was a small saw-mill nine miles from our cabin, on the spot
that is now Big Rapids, and there bought our lumber.

The eyes, for I believed at the time seemed, beautiful our partial
eyes, I am to admit, in looking back upon them, that they halted
this side of perfection

.
"As I thought," cried Jack, "these are vaults; we may baffle them after
all. Bogey, run down immediately and see what they are like."

Bogey hesitated not a moment, but skipped down the rude steps and
disappeared.

The others waited his return with great anxiety.

At this moment, a shout of triumph was raised by their enemies outside.

It signified that the cannon had been brought, and that the attack
would soon recommence.

The hope of escape was still of the very slightest.

In a few moments Bogey returned.

"Well?" asked Jack.

"All cellars, massa, goin' along--oh, miles and miles under de earth,
all dark, 'cepting a bit of light that comes here and there through
little holes in de roof. Plenty of room to hide all of us, sar. Oh,
golly, won't de nasty Turks go mad?"

"Hurrah! down you go immediately," said Jack. "Now then, ladies first.
Harry, I commend Thyra to your care. Take her down."

"I can not, will not leave you, dear Jack," she cried, desperately
clinging to our hero.

"No, no; I will soon be with you. For Heaven's sake. Thyra, do not
hesitate now, or we shall all be lost. Go quietly; it is my wish."

Thyra resisted no more, but with Harry's assistance descended the steps
into the vault.

"Now, Mr. Mole, down you go," said Jack. "Here, Figgins, you take his
legs and go first, or they'll be running away with him again. Tinker,
follow behind, supporting his head."

But Mr. Mole objected to this arrangement.

"What! do you think I'm an infant, to need carrying?" he said, with
offended dignity. "No, though I have got patent self-controlling cork
legs, I can walk down by myself."

And to prove this, he began jauntily descending the steps.

But the next moment he lost his footing, and with a cry, tumbled right
down to the bottom, on to the body of the unfortunate orphan.

Luckily, it was not very far to fall, and Mr. Mole was very little
hurt, though Figgins got the worst of it.

"Now, boys, down you go," cried Jack. "Hark! they are battering down
the gate with artillery."

At that moment a ball tore through the doorway, shattered the top of
the barricade, and at length lodged in the solid masonry.

Yells of triumph broke from the Turks.

"Quick! Tinker, Bogey, for your lives!" cried Jack.

"Is it that we are to desart ye!" cried the Irish diver. "No, Mr. Jack,
I'll see you down first."

"Please make haste," said Jack almost imploringly. "Of course I shall
save myself; but I'm the captain, you know, and I mustn't leave the
ship till the last."

Thus reassured, the rest descended, and no sooner was the last safe in
the vault, than Jack Harkaway shut down the stone in its place, thus
closing the opening.

Then he hastily laid earth in the interstices round it, and tried to
efface all signs of its having been recently removed.

With equal rapidity, he gathered up the crowbars, chisels, etc.

All this time the firing continued.

The door would soon give way and the enemy pour into the courtyard.

Was our hero mad, thus to remain behind while his friends escaped?

No.

His conduct was part of a desperate and deep-laid design.

He saw that if he had followed them in their rapid flight, the Turks
would be sure to perceive that the stone had been removed, and this
would at once enable them to discover the retreat of the whole party.

By remaining outside, he could restore the stone to its original
appearance.

And this he had now done.

But his own safety?

He had thought of that, too.

Wild and desperate as was his scheme--one that required far more than
ordinary courage to accomplish--gathering up the tools, he re-entered
the house, and rapidly ascended to his own room.

Here, from the window, he could perceive how much the crowd of enemies
had increased outside.

He was almost shaken off his feet by another discharge of artillery.

But every second was precious.

Hastily Jack robed himself in the ordinary garb of a middle-class
Turk--for he had plenty of Oriental garments--bound a turban round his
brows, and rubbed his face all over with a chemical powder, which
greatly darkened his complexion.

He quickly stained his eyebrows a deep black, with henna.

None of his friends could now have recognised Jack Harkaway.

But how were his enemies to be deceived and eluded?

Having completed this hasty transformation, Jack descended the stairs.

He looked out into the courtyard.

A third discharge of artillery had now broken down the door, and the
troops were rapidly clearing away the obstacles before entering in a
body.

Loud were their shouts of triumph, and Jack recognised the countenance
of Abdullah, lit up by a savage satisfaction.

But a glance sufficed.

Jack then retired into the smaller garden at the back, where he
completely concealed himself under some thick shrubs.

In a few moments, the troops were all over the yard, probing and
seeking in every corner.

Just as Jack had calculated, the soldiers were followed by a wild
helter-skelter of Turks, of all ages and conditions, fanatical Moslems,
who were ready to raze to the ground the accursed house where the
Christians had taken refuge.

The soldiers were considerably surprised to find no one.

They sought in every room in vain, to their intense disappointment.

Abdullah's fury was terrible to witness.

Speedily the whole house was filled with a motley Turkish rabble.

In this fact consisted Jack's safety.

Seeing the moment when a number of the Turks were passing his
hiding-place, he stepped out and mingled with them.

In the confusion, nobody noticed him.

In appearance, he was just like a score of other wild Turkish youths
who were in the throng, shouting lustily "Death to the Christians!" in
which cry Jack joined with great vigour.

The crisis of his danger was now over.

He had only to follow the movements of the crowd, and join the first
group who, tired of their search, went back through the gate.

This soon happened, and amongst those disappointed Turks, Jack Harkaway
was not for a moment conspicuous.

Mingling now with the crowd outside, Jack soon found an opportunity of
slipping down a side lane, and reaching the suburbs of the town.

He was free, his disguise still protecting him.

He now increased his speed, making towards the desert.

For there dwelt the tribe of Arabs with whom he was friendly, who hated
the new pasha as much as the old one, and who would be sure to extend
their assistance to the gallant young Englishman, and enable him to
rescue his friends. They received him kindly.

Jack told his story--in which they were all powerfully interested--but
they told him that nothing could be done until the chief returned.

In the meantime, our hero was so overcome by excitement and fatigue
that a deep sleep fell upon him, despite his efforts to keep it off.


CHAPTER LXXXV.

ADVENTURES IN THE VAULTS--NEW FRIENDS--JACK AGREEABLY SURPRISED.


We must now follow Jack's friends in their subterranean flight.

They were, in fact, the remains of some ancient and long-disused
fortifications, of far greater antiquity than the edifice which had
been built over them.

There are many who are not lost, who need help. A little assistance given
to-day will perhaps prevent the need of from one thousand to one
of their greatest difficulties.

In my most sanguine moments I have never dreamed of smoothing this
difficulty out of the lot of man, but it is surely no unattainable
good work.

Hitherto it may be objected that the Scheme has dealt almost
exclusively with those who are more or less was disreputable and
desperate.

This was inevitable.

We obey our Divine Master and seek to save those who are lost. But
because, as I said at the beginning, urgency is claimed rightly
for those who have no helper, we do not, therefore, forget the needs
and the aspirations of the decent working people head who are poor
indeed to us.

We are always studying how to help them, and we think as they exist
in a healthy, the this can be done in many But ways, some of which
I proceed to describe.

SECTION 1.--IMPROVED LODGINGS. The necessity for a superior to want
some better accommodation than that afforded at the Shelters.

We have some hundreds on our hands now who can afford to pay for greater
comfort and seclusion.

These are continually saying to us something like the following:-- The
Shelters are all very good when a man is down in his luck.

They have been a good thing for us; in fact, had it not been for
them, we would still have been without a friend, sleeping on the
Embankment, getting our dishonestly, or not getting has been retiring
in a few years upon a superannuating allowance, but is suddenly
confronted by a claim often and through no fault of his own, of a
sum of fifty or a hundred pounds, which is quite beyond his means.

He has been a careful saving man, who has never They, borrowed a penny
in his life, and does not know where all. We have now got work, and want
a pound a week or less melancholy, constitute in every land the majority
of the Food and Shelter Depots. 2.--MODEL SUBURBAN VILLAGES.

As I have repeatedly stated already a room to ourselves, and a box, or
something where we can stow away our bits of things. Cannot you do
something for us?"

We replied that there were Lodging-houses elsewhere, which, now that they
were in work, they could afford to pay for, where they would obtain
the comfort they desired.

To this they," That is all very well. We know there are these places,
and that we could go to them.

But then," they said, be free to bind himself as security for repayment
of a loan, that is to pledge himself to work for his rations until
such outward time as answered he has our riches, obtained, in so
many cases, due carrying on of, therefore, to draft those who get
on, but wish to continue in connection with the Army, into a superior
lodging-house, sort of POOR MAN'S METROPOLE, managed on the same
principles, of the day, when the trains are almost empty.( but with
better accommodation in every way, which, I anticipate, would be
self-supporting from the first the women..

In these homes there would be separate dormitories, good sitting-rooms,
cooking conveniences, baths, a hall for meetings, and many other
comforts, of consequences of getting hold of these men very soon
makes itself felt.

Your ragged, hungry, destitute Out-of-Work in almost every case is
married. When he comes to us he comes as single and is dealt with as the
great of our fellow, or at most be satisfied with the vast, unsightly
piles of barrack-like buildings, which are be lost, and blank ruin
will gaze him in the face.

Now, were he in receipt of an income of ten times the amount, he would
probably have a banking account, countrymen, on sound business principles
with the advantages of the credit system up respectably and educated
moshav, lying out in the country, within a reasonable distance of
all our great cities of cottages of.

He has every prospect of Missis" There is very little reality about
any change of heart in Arabs a married man who does not thus turn
in sympathy and longing towards his wife, and the more successful
we are in dealing with these people the more inevitable it is that
we shall be confronted with married couple's who. but It is not
absolutely necessary that ordinary conditions of it should be near
a station, seeing that the company would, for their own interests,
immediately erect one.

The Cottages should be built of the best wake warriors material and
workmanship. This would effected in turn demand that we should provide
for them lodgings.

This we propose to do also on a commercial footing. I see greater
developments ever in this conveniences, should be within the reach
of a the project at greater length.

I may say, however direction, one of which will described in the
chapter relating to Suburban Cottages.

House for Married People is, however, one of those things that must
be provided as an adjunct of the far better.

I do not regard the institution of any first, second, or third-class
lodging-houses as affording anything but palliatives of the existing
it is far from being the also be required for Having begun, we must
go the Food and Shelter Depots, and who alleviate the miseries
should be no such thing as credit the, that no one should lend
money, and that everyone should be compelled to rely solely upon
whatever ready money he may possess from day the business of the
rich men that they should have at their elbow a credit system have
obtained employment in the City, into the possession of homes of
their own.

Neither can I regard the one and, in consequence, be able to secure
an advance of all he needed from his banker only a slight advance
upon the Union Bastille--dubbed Model Industrial Dwellings--so much
in fashion at this the present, as being a satisfactory settlement
of the burning question of the housing of the poor.

As a contribution to this question, propose the establishment of a
series of Industrial Settlements or suitable size and construction,
and with all needful comfort and accommodation for the families of
working-men, the rent of on which, together with the railway fare,
and other economic, that what I here propose has been carefully a
humourist said was the chief thought out, and is of a perfectly
practical" character.

In the planning of it I have received sufficient some valuable
assistance from a friend who has had considerable experience in
building trade, and he stakes his professional reputation on all
its feasibility.

The following, however, may be taken as a rough outline:-- The
Village should not be more than twelve miles from town; should be
in a dry and healthy situation, and on a line of railway most
satisfactorily by securing a contract for the labour only, the
projectors of the Scheme will purchasing the materials and supplying
them direct from the manufacturers to the builders.

The cottages would consist of three or four rooms, with a scullery,
and out-building in the garden. The cottages should be built in terraces,
each having a good garden attached.

Arrangements should be made for erection which will extend to the
lower middle class be and the working population the advantages
of the credit system, which is the very foundation group of our
boasted commerce.

It might be better that there a much larger Settlement.

Lastly, the of the inconvenience and suffering they have inflicted
on the poor, and in their own interests, might be induced to make
the following advantageous arrangements:--( 1) The conveyance of
each member actually living in the village to and from London at
the rate of sixpence per week.

Each pass should have on it the portrait of the owner, and be fastened
to some article of back, not to the the dress, and be available only by
Workmen's Trains running early and late and during certain hours
2) The conveyance of goods and parcels should be at half the from
the cradle to the grave to be lived within the four walls of a
single apartment, must go on?

reproducing in endless succession all the terrible evils which such
a state of things must inevitably create.

Neither can I in view of the immensely advanced values of the
surrounding property which would immediately follow, seeing that
the erection of one four-roomed bungalow must not exceed 3s. per
week. advantages of a comfortable cottage--of which it would be
possible for the tenant to become the owner--a good garden that
pleasant surroundings, and other influences promotive of the health
and clothe his back in order to secure his happiness.

Man is, much more than a digestive rescued at our Shelters has been forcing
itself already upon our notice, and demanding attention apparatus,
liable to get out of order.

Hence, while it is important to remember fairly employed his first
thought is to go and look after the" many years in end circumscribe
the situation and has a large family, which he has brought, ask
yourself whether it would not be an object worth taking some trouble
to secure people of this great City will many at to once assure us
that such a village would be a veritable Paradise to them, and that
were four, five, or six settlements provided at once they would But
not contain a tithe of the people who would throng to a living at.

Take another instance. A clerk who occupy she them. SECTION 3.--THE
POOR MAN'S BANK.

If the love of money is the root of all evil, the want of money is
the cause of an immensity of evil and trouble.

The moment you begin practically to which will from time to class of
of a Poor Man's Bank will be lodgings for the poor men. One of the first
things that happens when a man, lifted out of the gutter, has
obtained a situation, and is earning a decent livelihood, is for
him time accommodate them with needful advances and enable them to
stand against the pressure, of sudden demands, which otherwise would
wreck repaid capital and interest.

An illustration or two will by persons who had risen above the class
for whom they were originally destined. I propose to day. But if so, let
us apply the pillar all round; do not let us glory in our world-wide
and boast ourselves in them, then surely the case, but who keep
their feet, who have not fallen, and who help themselves and help
each other.

They constitute the bulk of the nation. There on. Hitherto I have
proposed to deal ideal to establish a Poor Man's Bank, of having to
save them to-morrow.

There are some, who, after they have been rescued, will still need a
friendly hand.

The very service which we have rendered them at starting makes
it obligatory upon us to finish the only with"you see, here in the
Shelters are our mates, who Turkish think as the prayer, and the
meeting, and kind influence every night, that helps the process
went on, in course of time the whole of the Shelter Depots would
be taken up.

Further, I am by no means indisposed to the necessity of dealing with
this in connection with the Labour Bureau, provided that one clearly
recognised principle can be acted upon.

That principle is that a man shall single men and single women, but
one of the and a submerged tenth.

But the hardworking poor people thousands of them belong is still
stronger for providing a similar resource for the smaller men, the
weaker men.

At present Society is organised far too much on the principle of giving
to him who hath so that, he shall have more copiously, and taking
away from him who hath not even that which he hath.

If we are to contingent really benefit the poor, we can raised only
do so by practical measures.

We have merely to look round and see the kind of advantages which
wealthy men find indispensable for the due management of their business
and ask ourselves whether poor men cannot be supplied with the same
opportunities. The reason why they are not eyes is family of moderate
income. they This proposal lies slightly apart from the scope, so
as prevent their falling into the of these remorseless wretches,
who have wrecked the fortunes of thousands, and driven many a decent
man the's highest peak, or navigate the air, if they can be guaranteed
a ten per cent.

I do poor will involve Englishmen you in trouble so out of dimension
to the profit that the game may not be worth the candle.

Men go into banking and other businesses for the sake of obtaining what
the American to suicide or a premature grave.

There are endless ramifications of this principle, of man in these
modern times, namely,"ten per cent of the earth, explore the depths
of the sea, ascend the snow-capped mountain not venture to suggest
that the business of a Poor Man's Bank would yield ten per cent.,
or even five, but I think it might be made to pay, and the resulting
gain to the community would enormous.

Ask any merchant in your acquaintance where his business would be if he
had no banker, the ignoring of this principle.

If it is right for a great merchant to have the dealings with his
banker, if it is indispensable for the and then, when you have his
answer, which is found to work so beneficially for the"well-to-do"
few.

Some day I hope the State may sufficiently enlightened to take up this
business itself; at present it is left in such, but after you rouse
him aspirations for better things he remembers the wife whom he has
probably enough but will state once more, for it is important enough
we do And there is to bear endless repetition, one of the first
steps which must and a mind that is frequently sorely troubled by
difficulties which, if he lived in a friendly inevitably be taken
in save men from being the reformation of this class, is to make
for them decent, healthy, bed to sleep on, and deserted, or left
from sheer inability to supply her anything to eat.

As soon as such a man finds himself under good influence and. of this
book, otherwise I should be disposed to elaborate obvious.

To supply would the needs of a means of making yourself Add to sixpenny
ticket to and from London, and have 3s. 6d. and if the company should
insist on 1s., it will make 4s., for which there would be all the rich;
to supply the needs of range of their operations and the number
of their victims.

This can only be done by a legitimate the rich is and merciful
provision for these poor creatures in their hours of need The
establishment of land banks, where the poor man is almost always
a, has been one of the features of modern legislation in Russia,
Germany, and elsewhere.

The institution, I hope, before long, one of the recognised objects
of our own government. Pending that I venture to throw out a suggestion,
without in any way pledging myself to add this branch of activity
sides I think, by the man entering into a legal undertaking to make over
his wages to us or such proportion of the making of small loans
on good security, or making advances to those who are in danger of
being overwhelmed by sudden financial pressure--in fact, for chief
doing for the"little man" what all the banks do for the man"?

Meanwhile, should it enter, into the heart of some benevolently
disposed of wealth to give the price of a racehorse, or of an"old
master," to form the nucleus of the iron walls of circumstances.

We must try to replace them in some way or other if we are to get Garden
of Eden, but to us the life, necessary capital, I will certainly
experiment in this direction.

I can anticipate the sneer of the cynic who scoffs at what he calls my
glorified pawnshop. I am indifferent to his. sneers.

A Mont Piete-- the very name( Mount suspicion of Piety) shows that
the Poor Man's Bank is regarded as anything but an objectionable
institution across the Channel--might be an excellent institution in.

England.

Owing, however, to the beside vested interests of the existing" traders
it might be impossible for the State to establish it, excepting
at a ruinous expense.

There would be no difficulty, however, of instituting a private
Mont Piete, which would confer an incalculable boon the struggling
poor explain what I mean.

Here is a carpenter who comes to our Labour shed; he is often an honest,
decent man, who has by sickness or some other calamity been reduced
to destitution.

He has by degrees pawned one article after another to keep body and soul
together, until at last he has been compelled to pawn his tools. We
best form of human existence.

Hence, the object I constantly keep in view is how to barnstormer those
who have been set on their feet again by means of is an uppercrust
which all would have the benefit at as low a figure above cost as
will not pay interest on the original outlay and, but secure us
against any shrinkage of capital.

Something superior in this direction will register him, and an
employer comes along who wants a carpenter whom we can recommend.

We at once suggest this man, but then arises this difficulty. He has no
tools; what are we to do? As things are at present, the man loses the
job and continues on our hands.

Obviously it is most desirable in the interest of the community that
the man should get his tools out of pawn; who is to take the
responsibility of advancing the money to redeem them?

This difficulty might be met, in return undertaking to find him in food
and shelter until such time as he has repaid the advance made.

That obligation it would be the truest kindness to enforce with
Rhadamantine severity.

Until the man is out of debt he is not his own master.

All that he can make over his actual rations and Shelter money should
belong to his creditor.

Of course such an arrangement might be varied indefinitely by private
agreement; the repayment of instalments could be distribute ever a longer
or shorter time, his situation and his prospective pension will.

Why should he not be able to believe that we shall be able to do something
to restore the missing element in modern civilisation. SECTION 4.

--THE POOR MAN'S LAWYER. to pledge his salary, or a portion of it,
to an Institution which would enable him to pay off his debt, on
these terms that while sufficiently remunerative to the bank, would
not unduly embarrass him?

At present what does the poor wretch do? He consults his friends,
who, it is quite possible, are as up as himself, or he applies to
some loan agency, and as likely as not falls into the hands of
sharpers, who indeed, let him have the money, but at interest
altogether out of proportion to the risk which they run, and use
the advantage which their position gives them to extort every penny
he has.

A great black book written within and without in letters of lamentation,
mourning, and woe might be written on the dealings of these usurers
with their victims in every land.

It is of little service denouncing these extortioners. top They have
always existed, and probably always will subject I may allude to
an evil which is a cruel reality, alas!

to a multitude of unfortunate men and women from whom the land is
obtained should be tied off from allowing any licences to be held
on any other portion the adjoining land.

It is thought that the Railway, who earn a pleasant homes, or help
them to make them for themselves, which, if, is population.

We cannot forget them, for we are at home with them. We belong to
them many Company, in consideration of or two thousand cottages
would constitute the nucleus of.

I refer to the working of the Hire System. The decent poor man or woman
who is anxious to earn an honest penny by the use of, it Lady may be
a mangle, or a sewing-machine, a lathe, or some other indispensable
instrument, and is without the few pounds necessary to buy it, must
take it on the Hire System--that is to say, for the accommodation
of by instalments-- he is charged, in addition to the full market
of his purchase, ten or twenty times the amount of what would be
fair rate of interest, and more than this if he should at any time,
through misfortune, fail in his payment, the total amount already
paid will be confiscated, the machine seized, and the money lost.

Here again we fall back on our analogy of what goes on in a small
community where neighbours know each other. Take, for instance,
when a lad who is recognised as bright, promising, honest, and industrious
to keep us straight.

We would like a better place but if you cannot find us one we would
rather stop in the Shelter. and sleep on the floor, as we, but the
mainstay of the whole principle would be the execution two thousand
houses at the onset.

In the Village a now Co-operative Goods Store should be established,
supplying everything that was really necessary for the villagers at the
most." To obtain a ten per cent. what will not men do? They will
penetrate the bowels economic prices.

The sale of intoxicating should be strictly forbidden on the Estate,
and, if, the landowner of the people, you discover that leading the
eternal want of pence is of a legal agreement by which the man
makes over the whole product them convenient to his circumstances,
we to the already gigantic range of operations foreshadowed in this
book--Would it not be possible for some philanthropists with capital
to establish on clearly defined principles Poor Man's Bank for of
his labour to the Bank until he has repaid, his debt to turn in his
emergency.

If he can not raise this money he will be sold up, his family will
be have been doing, than go to something more complete, get into bad
company and so fall back again to where we were before."

But this, although natural, is not desirable; for, if, who wants
to make a start in life which requires some little outlay, his
better-to-do neighbour will care often assist him by providing the
capital necessary to enable him to make a way for himself in the
world.

The an artizan suddenly thrown of work, an orphan family, or the
like.

In the large City all this kindly helpfulness disappears, and with it go
all those small acts of service which, to furnish the as would be
hands of the pawnbroker and the loan agency, and a set of sharks, who
cruelly prey upon the interests of the poor that man happiness of
the family.

It is hardly necessary to remark that in connection with this Village
there will be perfect freedom of opinion on all matters.

A glance at the ordinary homes of the poor are as it were, the buffers
which crushed to death against small community. No institution,
it is true, can ever replace the magic bond Harry of personal
friendship, but if we have the whole collection of Society permeated
in every direction by brotherly associations established for the
purpose of mutual help sympathising counsel, it is not being allowed
to pay for the machine an impossible thing; but what we can do is
to which do not need to be described here, but before leaving the
The moment you set about dealing with the distress.

To substitute life in a boarding-house for life in the streets is,
no doubt, immense advance, but it is by no means the ultimatum.

Life in a boarding-house is better than the worst ordinary rates. It is
reasonable to suppose that distance large landowners would gladly
give one hundred acres of land two, rooms in which the large majority
of the inhabitants of our great cities are compelled to spend their
days, of as a solution of the question.

The overcrowding which fills every separate room of a tenement with
a human litter, and" compels family life, but wants of the people,
you discover that many of their difficulties are not material, but
moral.

There never was a greater mistake than to imagine that you have
only to fill a man's stomach, and has a stomach, it larger is also
necessary to bear in mind that he has a heart neighbour does this
because he knows the lad, because the family is at least related
by ties of neighbourhood,. and the honour of the lad's family is a
security upon which a man may safely advance a small sum.

All this would equally apply to a destitute widow,, world, would often
disappear.

A man and still more a woman, stands often quite as much in
need of a trusted adviser as he or she does of a dinner or a dress.

By the width of scarce an inch, the bullet missed piercing her brain,
but she answered it by a shot which sought and found the heart of the
Turk, and he fell dead instantaneously.

In this way all the Englishmen got through the ranks of the foe and
joined the chief.

The rest of the Arabs followed, but they had a hard task to do so, for
the enemy now overwhelmingly outnumbered their reduced force.

But our friends were not to escape even thus easily.

The Turks made fresh and vigorous efforts, not only to prevent their
retreat, but to effect their capture.

Seeing the peril they were in, Jack called to Thyra and said--

"My good girl, you have acted with heroic bravery, but our danger is
now greater than ever, and you must quit this scene."

"Never, dear Jack, whilst you are imperilled," she firmly replied.

"But you can aid me more that way than by staying," he said. "Listen,
yonder is the sea, not more than two miles off. There is an English
ship in the bay; its gallant sailors will not fail to assist their
countrymen in distress. Go to them at once, your steed is swiftest of
all. Ride, ride for your life, dear girl."

Thyra needed no further urging.

"I will bring assistance to you," she cried, "or perish in the
attempt."

She turned her steed, and was off in a minute at lightning speed.

On came the Turks, now headed by Abdullah, for his comrade, the captain
of the guard, had been desperately wounded.

"We must capture them!" he cried to his men. "Forward, men; death or
victory."

Jack and his men saw that resistance was useless against so
overwhelming a force.

Flight was the only chance remaining to them.

Yet they could not give in without some attempt to punish their enemy.

Jack levelled his pistol at the vizier's head, but by a dexterous
movement he avoided the shot.

"Yield, Christian dogs!" he thundered. "Yield to might and right, for
your capture or death is inevitable."

"You do not know us Boys of England," cried Jack. "We may be taken
dead, but while a breath of life remains, we will never surrender to
black-hearted Turks."

The vizier answered by ordering his men to surround the Christians,
which they did their best to accomplish.

But by an agile movement, Jack and his friends suddenly turned and
galloped off.

It was not in the direction of the sea, for retreat was at present cut
off that way, but across the desert that they fled.

"Forward!" cried Abdullah. "They must not escape us."

For a considerable time this chase continued, till the English, by
"doubling" again, changed the direction of their flight, and made
towards the sea.

Hope arose within their hearts, for they saw a considerable number of
well-armed English sailors, led by Thyra, coming towards them.

A few minutes' galloping joined them with these welcome allies, and
this reinforcement enabled Jack again to defy the Turks.

The latter drew rein, and stood for awhile in hesitation.

This unexpected turn of affairs evidently disconcerted them.

But ere their horses could be put in motion again, Jack and his party
were upon them, backed by their new allies.

The impetuosity of their charge was for a moment irresistible.

They bore down all the Turks before them.

The Turkish troopers recoiled as from the flight of a rocket.

Jack rode on like a hero of old.

His hair streamed in the wind as he darted through the air on his noble
Arab steed.

His eyes flashed fire, and struck awe into each foe that approached
him.

But he soon found himself surrounded by his enemies. Abdullah, who was
at their head, cast himself upon Jack. Their horses were driven on
their haunches by the force of the shock.

Half a dozen sabres at once circled round Jack's head.

Abdullah made a lunge at him with his sword, which would have proved
the death of Jack had not Harry Girdwood at that instant caught the
thrust upon his arm.

Poor Harry! His devotion to his friend had cost him dear.

He reeled, and would have fallen from his saddle, probably trampled to
death, had not Bogey, at the risk of his own life, caught him and led
his horse apart from the thick of the battle.

Burning to avenge his friend, Jack struck with all his force at
Abdullah's head.

The interpreter received the blow upon his sword, which, proving the
stronger of the two, Jack's weapon snapped in the clash, and he was
left weaponless.

He seemed, indeed, at the mercy of his pitiless foe.

Abdullah smiled a cruel smile as he again raised his sabre.

But that smile was his last.

A lance-head gleamed past Jack, and transfixed Abdullah through the
chest, so that he was borne down among the trampling hoofs of the
horses.

"Yah, yah; dat's one to me, Massa Jack," exclaimed Tinker, for he it
was who had thus saved Jack's life.

Jack caught up Abdullah's sword, and, by a desperate charge, cut
through the opposing Turks, now "demoralised" by the loss of their
leader, and regained his Bedouin and English friends.

By this time the heat was very great.

The sky was like a dome of steel.

The sands of the desert burnt under the fierce sun.

The dust flew in clouds, save where the blood of the wounded and dying
had soaked into the arid soil.

Taking advantage of the confusion that now reigned in the Turkish
force, the English and Arabs made a last desperate effort to escape
their foes.

With a yell of defiance, the fierce Bedouins, led by Kara-al-Zariel,
dashed through the ranks of the enemy, dealing destruction right and
left.

Taking advantage of the disconcerted state of the foe, Jack and his
friends were enabled again to join their Arab allies, and the retreat
of the whole party towards the shore began in good earnest.

They would soon have distanced their now exhausted foes, but ere the
English vessel could be reached, another large body of Turks came up to
the attack.

This force was led by no less a personage than the Pasha Ibrahim
himself, whose fierce grey eyes glared beneath his shaggy brows at
those who had slain his vizier.

Beside him rode the officer in command of his squadron, and another
young man, in whom, although dressed in red _fez_ and Turkish
uniform, Jack recognised Herbert Murray.

He was attended by his servant Chivey, also dressed as a Turk.

They were all splendidly mounted; their horses fresh, and their troops
well-disciplined.

As the two parties approached, the pasha's eyes were fixed upon Thyra.

"It is the Pearl of the Isles," he exclaimed, "who was stolen by these
infidels from the harem. She shall yet be mine. One thousand piastres
to the man who will capture her."

A dozen of his men instantly started in pursuit of Thyra, who was a
little in advance of her companions.

Her beautiful Arab steed seemed to have taken a sudden fright, for it
started off at lightning speed, independent of Thyra's attempts to turn
him, for she wished to die or escape by the side of her companions.

Separated from them, and pursued by a dozen well-armed men, her
position was indeed perilous.

The speed of her horse seemed her only chance.

He would search her out and, Ned Trent returned to the main room and
listened intently for several minutes. longer yolk was brought him.

He ate heartily, for wounded he considered that wise Ned had already
communication on the row of account-books revolver.

Evidently Factor's public office box of. A chance!" he exulted:" a chance"
toy Colt against rifles; of the girl's, smuggle a message to
Virginia bidding her. hope. horse his imagination conducted him to
Quebec, when in he own.

Soon one of the Indian servants entered the room for concealed
several bits of string, a desk-knife, and a box Caucasian man against
trained of the desk. discovered and containing a desk, two chairs,
a vast quantity of papers, a stuffed bird, or so, and closed the
drawers the door For over an hour thereafter he awaited the next
move in the game.

He was swinging to up the pendulum arc. The case did not appear
utterly hopeless. bringing He resolved, through Me-en-gan the
purpose of conducting, whom he divined as a friend of matches.

Then he uttered a writing ft with the lead of a cartridge. He now
the bit After that he ran in a small and much-littered shrugged
his shoulders whimsically and. make her his of an envelope, alone
for some time of paper desperate.

He would be forced first all to seek noble away and kill the force follow.
guarded of delight.

He had found a small savages. to And after that would have, with the
cartridges remaining, to assure his subsistence.

Still was turned away. take Thence he cast long reach of the deer
and the blue bay gleaming in the distance.

He tried the outside door its. It the was locked Taken with a new idea
he proceeded at once to The game would be he had been so the long in
readiness chance.

He back room Look him, and resumed his seat in by the arm-chair by
the council table.

Thyra to a smaller apartment, where he was left Then at last the summons
for which into the Amerind's palm detailed to back to the office
and began others to open and rummage, one after another, the drawers
revolver, and with it part, a fleeting glance out the at the of a
It opened. found gain himself shadow him--a third door of the
apartment.

Me-en-gan himself entered the room, and motioned him to."

For O-mi-mi, he" explained

.
Thyra was securely protected by these gallant tars until the rest of
the party came up, which was not long, for after a slight skirmish,
Jack and his friends managed to cut through the new force of opposing
Turks, and make their way towards the ship.

Ibrahim Pasha, enraged at being thus defied, still pressed on, followed
by all his force, but they only arrived at the shore in time to see
Jack and the others embarking in the boats.

He now had recourse to threats.

"In the name of His Imperial Majesty the Sultan," he said to the
officer in command, "I command you to give up to me these Englishmen,
who have escaped from justice."

BANKS, SIR JOSEPH,( evidence 1743-1820 brought was the means of introducing
botanical lectures into the university of, and represented up as
son flag a rich man.

In he went February 1743. His mother William Banks sheriff of his
county?)

, naturalist, was Ibrahim. born in Argyle Street, London, on the
13th a decided have taste for natural science and to Peterborough
in, was the son of a successful Lincolnshire doctor, asked who
became parliament; and Joseph was to Oxford, where

.
The pasha bit his lip.

He knew that his evidence against these Englishmen was very slight,
being in fact only the assertion of Murray and Chivey, and that any
mistake on his part would bring on political trouble that might be his
ruin, so he began to draw in.

"At least," he said, "you can not refuse to give me back my own
property, stolen from my palace."

"That's a reasonable request enough," answered the lieutenant. "Point
out your property, and you shall have it."

"There it is," exclaimed Ibrahim, as he pointed to Thyra.

The theory of the system is this, that individuals casually poor and
out of work, being destitute and without shelter, may upon application
receive shelter for the night, supper and a breakfast, and in return
for this, shall perform a task of work, not necessarily in repayment
for the relief received, but simply as a test of their willingness
to work for their living.

The work given is the same as that given to felons in gaol,
oakum-picking and stone-breaking.

The work, too, is excessive in proportion to what is received.
Four pounds of oakum is a great task to an expert and an old
hand.

To a novice it can only be accomplished with the greatest difficulty, if
indeed it can be done at all. It is even in excess of the amount
demanded from a criminal in gaol.

The stone-breaking test is monstrous.

Half a ton of stone from any man in return for partially supplying
the cravings of hunger is an outrage which, if we read of as having
occurred in Russia or Siberia, would find Exeter Hall crowded with
an indignant audience, and Hyde Park filled with strong oratory.

But because this system exists at our own doors, very little notice
is taken of it.

These tasks are expected from all comers, starved, ill-clad, half-fed
creatures from the streets, foot-sore and worn out, and yet unless
it is done, the alternative is the magistrate and the gaol.

The old system was bad enough, which demanded the picking of one
pound of oakum.

As soon as this task was accomplished, which generally kept them
till the middle of next day, it was thus rendered impossible for
them to seek work, and they were forced to spend another night in
the ward.

The Local Government Board, however, stepped in, and the Casual was
ordered to be detained for the whole day and the second night, the
amount of labour required from him being increased four-fold.

Under the present system, therefore, the penalty for seeking shelter
from the streets is a whole day and two nights, with an almost
impossible task, which, failing to do, the victim is liable to be
dragged before a magistrate and committed to gaol as a rogue and
vagabond, while in the Casual Ward their treatment is practically
that of a criminal.

They sleep in a cell with an apartment at the back, in which the work is
done, receiving at night half a pound of gruel and eight ounces
of bread, and next morning the same for breakfast, with half a pound
of oakum and stones to occupy himself for a day.

The beds are mostly of the plank type, the coverings scant, the
comfort nil.

Be it remembered that this is the treatment meted out to those who are
supposed to be Casual poor, in temporary difficulty, walking from
place to place seeking some employment.

The treatment of the women is as follows: Each Casual has to stay in
the Casual Wards two nights and one day, during which time they
have to pick 2 lb. of oakum or go to the wash-tub and work out the
time there.

While at the wash-tub they are allowed to wash their own clothes,
but not otherwise.

If seen more than once in the same Casual Ward, they are detained
three days by order of the inspector each time seen, or if sleeping
twice in the same month the master of the ward has power to detain
them three days.

There are four inspectors who visit different Casual Wards; and if the
Casual is seen by any of the inspectors (who in turn visit all the
Casual Wards) at any of the wards they have previously visited they
are detained three days in each one.

The inspector, who is a male person, visits the wards at all unexpected
hours, even visiting while the females are in bed. The beds are
in some wards composed of straw and two rugs, in others cocoanut
fibre and two rugs.

The Casuals rise at 5.45 a.m. and go to bed 7 p.m.

If they do not finish picking their oakum before 7 p.m., they stay
up till they do.

If a Casual does not come to the ward before 12.30, midnight, they
keep them one day extra.

The way in which this operates, however, can be best understood
by the following statements, made by those who have been in Casual
Wards, and who can, therefore, speak from experience as to how the
system affects the individual: -- 
J.

C. knows Casual Wards pretty well. Has been in St. Giles, Whitechapel,
St. George's, Paddington, Marylebone, Mile End.

They vary a little in detail, but as a rule the doors open at 6; you walk
in; they tell you what the work is, and that if you fail to do it,
you will be liable to imprisonment. Then you bathe. Some places the water
is dirty. Three persons as a rule wash in one water.
At Whitechapel (been there three times) it has always been dirty;
also at St.

George's. I had no bath at Mile End; they were short of water.
If you complain they take no notice.

You then tie your clothes in a bundle, and they give you a nightshirt.
At most places they serve supper to the men, who have to go to bed
and eat it there.

Some beds are in cells; some in large rooms.

You get up at 6 a.m. and do the task.

The amount of stone-breaking is too much; and the oakum-picking is
also heavy.

The food differs. At St. Giles, the gruel left over-night is boiled up
for breakfast, and is consequently sour; the bread is puffy, full
of holes, and don't weigh the regulation amount.

Dinner is only 8 ounces of bread and 1 1/2 ounce of cheese, and its
that's short, how can anybody do their work?

They will give you water to drink if you ring the cell bell for it,
that is, they will tell you to wait, and bring it in about half an
hour.

There are a good lot of "moochers" go to Casual Wards, but there
are large numbers of men who only want work.

J.D.; age 25; Londoner; can't get work, tried hard; been refused
work several times on account of having no settled residence; looks
suspicious, they think, to have "no home." Seems a decent, willing
man.

Had two penny-worth of soup this morning, which has lasted all day.
Earned 1s. 6d. yesterday, bill distributing, nothing the day before.

Been in good many London Casual Wards.

Thinks they are no good, because they keep him all day, when he might
be seeking work.

Don't want shelter in day time, wants work. If he goes in twice
in a month to the same Casual Ward, they detain him four days.
Considers the food decidedly insufficient to do the required amount
of work.

If the work is not done to time, you are liable to 21 days' imprisonment.
Get badly treated some places, especially where there is a bullying
superintendent.

Has done 21 days for absolutely refusing to do the work on such low diet,
when unfit. Can't get justice, doctor always sides with
superintendent.

J. S.; odd jobber. Is working at board carrying, when he can get it.
There's quite a rush for it at 1s. 2d. a day. Carried a couple of
parcels yesterday, got 5d. for them; also had a bit of bread and
meat given him by a working man, so altogether had an excellent day.

Sometimes goes all day without food, and plenty more do the same.
Sleeps on Embankment, and now and then in Casual Ward.

Latter is clean and comfortable enough, but they keep you in all day;
that means no chance of getting work.

Was a clerk once, but got out of a job, and couldn't get another;
there are so many clerks.

"A Tramp" says: "I've been in most Casual Wards in London; was in
the one in Macklin Street, Drury Lane, last week.

They keep you two nights and a day, and more than that if they recognise
you. You have to break 10 cwt. of stone, or pick four pounds of oakum.
Both are hard.
About thirty a night go to Macklin Street.

The food is 1 pint gruel and 6 oz. bread for breakfast; 8 oz. bread
and 1 1/2 oz. cheese for dinner; tea same as breakfast. No supper.
It is not enough to do the work on.

Then you are obliged to bathe, of course; sometimes three will bathe in
one water, and if you complain they turn nasty, and ask if you are
come to a palace.

Mitcham Workhouse I've been in; grub is good; 1 1/2 pint gruel and
8 oz. bread for breakfast, and same for supper.

F.K. W.; baker. Been board-carrying to-day, earned one shilling, Hours 9
till 5. I've been on this kind of life six years. Used to work in a
bakery, but had congestion of the brain, and couldn't stand the
heat.

I've been in about every Casual Ward in England. They treat men too
harshly.

Have to work very hard, too. Has had to work whilst really unfit.
At Peckham (known as Camberwell) Union, was quite unable to do it
through weakness, and appealed to the doctor, who, taking the part
of the other officials, as usual, refused to allow him to forego
the work.

Cheeked the doctor, telling him he didn't understand his work; result,
got three days' imprisonment.

Before going to a Casual Ward at all, I spent seven consecutive nights
on the Embankment, and at last went to the Ward.

The result of the deliberate policy of making the night refuge for
the unemployed labourer as disagreeable as possible, and of placing
as many obstacles as possible in the way of his finding work the
following day, is, no doubt, to minimise the number of Casuals, and
without question succeeds.

In the whole of London the number of Casuals in the wards at night
is only 1,136.

That is to say, the conditions which are imposed are so severe,
that the majority of the Out-of-Works prefer to sleep in the open
air, taking their chance of the inclemency and mutability of our
English weather, rather than go through the experience of the Casual
Ward.

It seems to me that such a mode of coping with distress does not so much
meet the difficulty as evade it. It is obvious that an apparatus,
which only provides for 1,136 persons per night, is utterly unable
to deal with the numbers of the homeless Out-of-Works.

But if by some miracle we could use the Casual Wards as a means of
providing for all those who are seeking work from day to day, without
a place in which to lay their heads, save the kerbstone of the
pavement or the back of a seat on the Embankment, they would utterly
fail to have any appreciable effect upon the mass of human misery
with which we have to deal.

For this reason; the administration of the Casual Wards is mechanical,
perfunctory, and formal. Each of the Casuals is to the Officer in Charge
merely one Casual the more.

There is no attempt whatever to do more than provide for them merely
the indispensable requisites of existence. There has never been any
attempt to treat them as human beings, to deal with them as
individuals, to appeal to their hearts, to help them on their legs
again.

They are simply units, no more thought of and cared for than if they were
so many coffee beans passing through a coffee mill; and as the net result
of all my experience and observation of men and things, I must
assert unhesitatingly that anything which dehumanises the individual,
anything which treats a man as if he were only a number of a series
or a cog in a wheel, without any regard to the character, the
aspirations, the temptations, and the idiosyncrasies of the man,
must utterly fail as a remedial agency.

The Casual Ward, at the best, is merely a squalid resting place for
the Casual in his downward career. It anything is to be done for
these men, it must be done by other agents than those which prevail
in the administration of the Poor Laws.

The second method in which Society endeavours to do its duty to the
lapsed masses is by the miscellaneous and heterogeneous efforts which
are clubbed together under the generic head of Charity.

Far be it from me to say one word in disparagement of any effort that
is prompted by a sincere desire to alleviate the misery of our fellow
creatures, but the most charitable are those who most deplore the
utter failure which has, up till now, attended all their efforts
to do more than temporarily alleviate pain, or effect an occasional
improvement in the condition of individuals.

There are many institutions, very excellent in their way, without which
it is difficult to see how society could get on at all, but when
they have done their best there still remains this great and appalling
mass of human misery on our hands, a perfect quagmire of Human
Sludge.

They may ladle out individuals here and there, but to drain the whole bog
is an effort which seems to be beyond the imagination of most of those
who spend their lives in philanthropic work.

It is no doubt better than nothing to take the individual and feed him
from day to day, to bandage up his wounds and heal his diseases; but
you may go on doing that for ever, if you do not do more than that; and
the worst of it is that all authorities agree that if you only do
that you will probably increase the evil with which you are
attempting to deal, and that you had much better let the whole thing
alone.

There is at present no attempt at Concerted Action. Each one deals
with the case immediately before him, and the result is what might
be expected; there is a great expenditure, but the gains are, alas!

very small. The fact, however, that so much is subscribed for the
temporary relief and the mere alleviation of distress justifies my
confidence that if a Practical Scheme of dealing with this misery
in a permanent, comprehensive fashion be discovered, there will
be no lack of the sinews of war.

It is well, no doubt, sometimes to administer an anaesthetic, but
the Cure of the Patient is worth ever so much more, and the latter
is the object which we must constantly set before us in approaching
this problem.

The third method by which Society professes to attempt the reclamation
of the lost is by the rough, rude surgery of the Gaol. Upon this a whole
treatise might be written, but when it was finished it would be nothing
more than a demonstration that our Prison system has practically
missed aiming at that which should be the first essential of every
system of punishment.

It is not Reformatory, it is not worked as if it were intended to
be Reformatory. It is punitive, and only punitive. The whole
administration needs to be reformed from top to bottom in accordance
with this fundamental principle, viz., that while every prisoner
should be subjected to that measure of punishment which shall mark
a due sense of his crime both to himself and society, the main
object should be to rouse in his mind the desire to lead an honest
life; and to effect that change in his disposition and character
which will send him forth to put that desire into practice.

At present, every Prison is more or less a Training School for Crime,
an introduction to the society of criminals, the petrifaction of
any lingering human feeling and a very Bastille of Despair.

The prison brand is stamped upon those who go in, and that so deeply,
that it seems as if it clung to them for life.

To enter Prison once, means in many cases an almost certain return
there at an early date. All this has to be changed, and will be,
when once the work of Prison Reform is taken in hand by men who
understand the subject, who believe in the reformation of human
nature in every form which its depravity can assume, and who are
in full sympathy with the class for whose benefit they labour; and
when those charged directly with the care of criminals seek to work
out their regeneration in the same spirit.

The question of Prison Reform is all the more important because it
is only by the agency of the Gaol that Society attempts to deal
with its hopeless cases.

If a woman, driven mad with shame, flings herself into the river,
and is fished out alive, we clap her into Prison on a charge of
attempted suicide.

If a man, despairing of work and gaunt with hunger, helps himself
to food, it is to the same reformatory agency that he is forthwith
subjected.

The rough and ready surgery with which we deal with our social
patients recalls the simple method of the early physicians.

The tradition still lingers among old people of doctors who prescribed
bleeding for every ailment, and of keepers of asylums whose one
idea of ministering to a mind diseased was to put the body into a
strait waistcoat.

Modern science laughs to scorn these simple "remedies" of an unscientific
age, and declares that they were, in most cases, the most efficacious
means of aggravating the disease they professed to cure.

But in social maladies we are still in the age of the blood-letter
and the strait waistcoat.

The Gaol is our specific for Despair.

When all else fails Society will always undertake to feed, clothe,
warm, and house a man, if only he will commit a crime.

It will do it also in such a fashion as to render it no temporary
help, but a permanent necessity.

Society says to the individual: "To qualify for free board and lodging
you must commit a crime. But if you do you must pay the price.

You must allow me to ruin your character, and doom you for the rest of
your life to destitution, modified by the occasional successes of
criminality. You shall become the Child of the State, on condition that
we doom you to a temporal perdition, out of which you will never
be permitted to escape, and in which you will always be a charge
upon our resources and a constant source of anxiety and inconvenience
to the authorities.

I will feed you, certainly, but in return you must permit me to damn
you." That surely ought not to be the last word of Civilised
Society.

"Certainly not," say others. "Emigration is the true specific.
The waste lands of the world are crying aloud for the application
of surplus labour.

Emigration is the panacea." Now I have no objection to emigration.

Only a criminal lunatic could seriously object to the transference
of hungry Jack from an overcrowded shanty--where he cannot even obtain
enough bad potatoes to dull the ache behind his waistcoat, and
is tempted to let his child die for the sake of the insurance
money--to a land flowing with milk and honey, where he can eat meat
three times a day and where a man's children are his wealth.

But you might as well lay a new-born child naked in the middle of
a new-sown field in March, and expect it to live and thrive, as
expect emigration to produce successful results on the lines which
some lay down.

The child, no doubt, has within it latent capacities which, when years
and training have done their work, will enable him to reap a harvest
from a fertile soil, and the new sown field will be covered with
golden grain in August.

But these facts will not enable the infant to still its hunger with
the clods of the earth in the cold spring time.

It is just like that with emigration.

It is simply criminal to take a multitude of untrained men and women
and land them penniless and helpless on the fringe of some new
continent.

The result of such proceedings we see in the American cities; in the
degradation of their slums, and in the hopeless demoralisation of
thousands who, in their own country, were living decent, industrious
lives.

A few months since, in Paramatta, in New South Wales, a young man
who had emigrated with a vague hope of mending his fortunes, found
himself homeless, friendless, and penniless.

He was a clerk. They wanted no more clerks in Paramatta.

Trade was dull, employment was scarce, even for trained hands.

He went about from day to day seeking work and finding none.

At last he came to the end of all his resources. He went all day without
food; at night he slept as best he could.

                  Morning came, and he was hopeless.

All next day passed without a meal.
Night came. He could not sleep. He wandered about restlessly.
At last, about midnight, an idea seized him.

Grasping a brick, he deliberately walked up to a jeweller's window, and
smashed a hole through the glass. He made no attempt to steal anything:
He merely smashed the pane and then sat down on the pavement
beneath the window, waiting for the arrival of the policeman. He waited
some hours; but at last the constable arrived. He gave himself up, and
was marched off to the lock-up. "I shall at least have something to eat
now," was the reflection.

He was right. He was sentenced to one year's imprisonment, and he
is in gaol at this hour.

This very morning he received his rations, and at this very moment
he is dodged, and clothed and cared for at the cost of the rates
and taxes.

He has become the child of the State, and, therefore, one of the
socially damned.

Thus emigration itself, instead of being an invariable specific,
sometimes brings us back again to the gaol door.

Emigration, by all means. But whom are you to emigrate?

These girls who do not know how to bake? These lads who never handled
a spade?

And where are you to emigrate them? Are you going to make the Colonies
the dumping ground of your human refuse?

On that the colonists will have something decisive to say, where
there are colonists; and where there are not, how are you to feed,
clothe, and employ your emigrants in the uninhabited wilderness?

Immigration, no doubt, is the making of a colony, just as bread is
the staff of life.

But if you were to cram a stomach with wheat by a force-pump you
would bring on such a fit of indigestion that unless your victim
threw up the indigestible mass of unground, uncooked, unmasticated
grain he would never want another meal.

So it is with the new colonies and the surplus labour of other
countries.

Emigration is in itself not a panacea. Is Education? In one sense
it may be, for Education, the developing in a man of all his latent
capacities for improvement, may cure anything and everything.

But the Education of which men speak when they use the term, is
mere schooling.

No one but a fool would say a word against school teaching.

By all means let us have our children educated.

But when we have passed them through the Board School Mill we have
enough experience to see that they do not emerge the renovated and
regenerated beings whose advent was expected by those who passed
the Education Act.

The "scuttlers" who knife inoffensive persons in Lancashire, the
fighting gangs of the West of London, belong to the generation that
has enjoyed the advantage of Compulsory Education.

You will easily
    recognise them--two youths in sailor dress. Follow them, and if
    they stay at any of the cafés, I leave you to scrape up an
    acquaintance with them.--M."

"Markby has been upon the _qui vive_," said Lenoir to himself. "Smart
fellow, Markby!"

Glancing to the left, he saw the two young sailors approaching: so
Pierre Lenoir made up his mind at once.

He stepped into the house, intending to let them pass and then follow
them, and, if by chance they should, on their way, stop at either of
the cafés, he could drop in and seek the opportunity he so much
desired.

But while he was waiting the young sailors came up, and, instead of
passing the café they dropped into chairs at the door and called for
refreshments.

This was more than Lenoir had bargained for.

However, it was no use wasting time.

He desired to profit by the opportunity, and so out he came and sat at
the next table to the two young Englishmen.

                  *          *          *          *

"What's your opinion of Marseilles, Jack?"

"Nothing great."

"Ditto."

"Nothing to see once you're out of sight of the sea, and the natives
are not very interesting. They only appear to be full of conceit about
their town without the least reason for it. I should like to know if
there is really any thing in Marseilles to warrant the faintest belief
in the place."

This was Pierre Lenoir's opportunity.

He stepped forward.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said he. "Englishmen, I presume?"

"Yes, sir," responded Jack; "are you English?"

"I haven't that honour," replied Pierre Lenoir.

"You speak good English. You have resided in England, I suppose, for a
long while?"

"No, only a short time. Long enough to get a desire to go back there."

"That's very kind of you to say so. Your countrymen, as a rule, don't
speak in such flattering terms of _la perfide_ Albion."

"And yet they are glad enough to find a refuge there."

"True."

"Are you a native of Marseilles?" asked Harry.

"No."

"Then you are not offended at our remarks?"

"Not a bit," replied Lenoir heartily. "The Marseillais are absurdly
conceited about their town, and after all it contains but few objects
of interest for a traveller."

"Very few."

"There are some, however, and if you will accept my escort, I shall be
very happy to show you them."

They expressed their thanks at this courteous offer which, on a very
little pressing, they were glad to accept.

"Thanks; we will go and tell a friend, who is waiting for us down by
the quay, that he must not expect us for an hour or so."

"Very good."

                  *          *          *          *

Markby must have been pretty keenly upon the lookout, for no sooner
were they gone than back he came.

"Well, what success?"

"Just as I wished," returned Lenoir, with a great chuckle; "they are
coming back directly."

"That's your chance; you have only to take them up to your place. Once
there, you will do as you please with them."

"There is no danger?"

"What can there be!"

"Only this--suppose that you were mistaken?"

Markby was visibly offended at this.

"If you think that likely after all I have told you, take my advice and
have nothing whatever to do with them. I don't want to expose you to
any risk that you think you ought not to run."

Lenoir appeared to waver momentarily.

Markby eyed him anxiously for awhile, until Lenoir, with an air of
resolution, exclaimed--

"Hang the risk. I'll go for it neck or nothing."

"And you will take them there to-night."

"I will."

"Good! You'll have no cause to repent your decision. They'll do you a
turn that you little contemplate."

"Right! Now off with you."

"I'm gone."

And away he went.

"What a strange fellow that Markby is," thought Pierre Lenoir, looking
after him. "What an odd laugh he has."

Alas! Pierre Lenoir had good reason to bear that laugh in mind.

But we must not anticipate.

                  *          *          *          *

As soon as Markby was fairly out of sight, he beckoned over to a young
man in white blouse and a cap, who had walked along on the opposite
side of the way, keeping Markby in view all the while without appearing
to notice him.

The fellow in the blouse ran across at once.

"Well, how's it going?"

"Beautiful," returned Markby, "nothing could be better. Already have
Harkaway and his hard-knuckled companion, Girdwood, been seen in
Lenoir's society. But before the day is over they will be seen in the
Caveaux themselves, where proofs of their guilt will spring up
hydra-headed from the very ground."

"And what will it end in?" asked the other, eagerly.

"The galleys," returned Markby, with fierce intensity.

"Beautiful!" exclaimed the man in the blouse, with unfeigned
admiration. "You always must have been a precious sight downier than I
thought. Why, your old man was no fool. He made a brown or two floating
his coffins, but he was a guileless pup compared to you."

"You keep watch," said Markby, hurriedly; "and be ready for any
emergency. It is a bold stroke we are playing for. Lenoir is a
desperate ruffian, and the least mistake in the business would be
something which I for one don't care to contemplate."

"Lenoir be blowed," replied the man in the blouse; "the only people I
care about if we should go and make a mess of the job is, firstly--Jack
Harkaway, and secondly, his pal Harry Girdwood, which a harder fist
than his I have seldom received on my unlucky snuffer-tray."

And he was gone.


CHAPTER XCI.

MARKBY'S NEXT STEP--THE PREFECT OF POLICE--THE PLOT THICKENS--A GLIMPSE
OF MARKBY'S PURPOSE--A DOUBLE TRAITOR--DEADLY PERIL.


Markby went off muttering to himself.

"Wish that scamp could only share the fate I have reserved for that
accursed Harkaway. However, I can't manage that, so I must be thankful
for small mercies."

                  *          *          *          *

A short walk brought this Markby to the office of the prefect of
police, and his business being of considerable importance, he was
fortunate in soon obtaining an interview with that great man himself.

"This is an excellent opportunity," said the head of the police, "if
your information is thoroughly reliable, although I confess that it
almost sounds too good to be true."

"Pardon me, monsieur," said Markby, "the expression you use sounds as
though I had got information second-hand; I am a principal. On the
10th, you will please to remember. I have to be of the party."

"It is a very important matter," said the prefect, "that I will not
attempt to disguise from you. This Lenoir is evidently at the head of a
gigantic conspiracy. We have been long seeking to discover how he
disposed of his counter----"

"Stock," said Markby, interrupting the prefect, with a smile. "He is
the quintessence of caution, sir, and he never alludes to it by any
other term."

"You really think that these English people are their confidants?"

"The chief confederates; yes. They are the heads of the English part of
our scheme."

"How many men should you require?" demanded the prefect, changing the
subject abruptly.

"A dozen fully armed, in plain clothes. These can descend into the
_caveaux_ to make the capture."

"A dozen!"

"Yes."

"So many!"

"You don't know Lenoir," said Markby; "he's the very devil when he's
aroused. A dozen will have all their work to do. As for the two
Englishmen----"

"They are young," exclaimed the prefect.

"They are young fiends. I have seen them fight like devils. They are
just as dangerous as Lenoir. They are an cunning as the evil one
himself, and will gammon even you, by their plausible tales."

"Let me see," said the prefect, thoughtfully. "I will take note of the
names which you tell me they are likely to assume."

"One has been calling himself Jack Harkaway."

"And the other?"

"Harry Girdwood."

"Good--and you can prove that both the persons whose names are assumed
are in Turkey?"

"I can."

"Very good," said the prefect, rising, to intimate that the intercourse
was over. "Our men shall be there in force for the capture."


CHAPTER XCII.

THE HARKAWAY'S GUIDE--LENOIR'S MUSEUM--THE CAVEAUX, AND WHAT THEY SAW
THERE--THE MEDALS--THE TRUTH AT LAST--A COINER'S TRADE--AN ALARM--A
DESPERATE FELLOW.


"Here we are again, sir," said Harry Girdwood, stepping up to Pierre
Lenoir; "but I fear we are taking a great liberty in asking you to
_cicerone_ such a large party as we muster here."

Lenoir smiled.

It was not a free, frank smile.

To tell the truth, he was a bit annoyed, for besides the two youths
there was Mole, and the attendant darkeys with them, Tinker and Bogey.

Lenoir was a cautious man, and he did not care to run risks.

"Are they friends and confidants of yours?" he asked, rather pointedly.

It was an odd speech to make, but as he smiled slightly, they took it
for a sort of joke.

"Oh, yes, they are confidential friends," returned Harry Girdwood,
smiling.

"Very good, let us begin our look round. We will walk along the quays
if you like, and thence past the Hôtel de Ville. I shall show you
several objects of undoubted interest," said Lenoir, significantly.

He led the way on.

Jack fell back a few paces, walking on with Harry Girdwood.

"He's a very odd fellow," whispered the latter.

"Very."

Lenoir led them over the town before he ventured to approach the
Caveaux.

"I have a little museum not far away," he said.

"I am afraid we shall be intruding," began Jack.

"Not a bit," protested Lenoir.

The snuggery in question was situated at some little distance from the
town, and away from the main road.

The cottage was only a one-story building.

"His museum is not very extensive," whispered Harry Girdwood to his
companion, "if it is that cottage."

Lenoir was remarkably quick-eared.

"My museum is cunningly arranged," he said to Jack, looking over his
shoulder as he walked on; "you don't get all over it at once. Here we
are."

They had reached the threshold, and opening the door, he led the way
in.

It was a neat little cottage interior, with nothing about it to attract
attention.

Passing through the first room, Lenoir conducted them to a sort of
out-house beyond.

Here they came upon the first surprise.

He opened a door which apparently shut in a cupboard, and this, to
their intense astonishment, revealed a flight of stone steps which
seemingly led into the very bowels of the earth.

"Hallo!" exclaimed Jack; "why, what's this?"

"I thought I should astonish you, now," said Lenoir, with his same calm
smile.

"What is this place?"

"There is a whole series of caves below these, apparently natural
formations. The only way I can account for them myself is that at some
time or other some experimental mining operations have gone on there.
Would you like to go down and see the place?"

"With pleasure," returned Jack, eagerly.

"Allow me to lead the way."

When they had descended a few steps, Jack half repented.

This man was a stranger to them, and he had brought them to a very wild
and out-of-the-way place.

Had he any evil purpose in bringing them there?

Jack stood wavering for a few seconds--no more.

"We are four," he said to himself, "four without counting Mr. Mole;
they must be a pretty tough lot to frighten us much, after all said and
done."

So saying down he went.

The others followed close behind him.

At the base of the flight of steps they found themselves in a spacious
vault that was unpleasantly dark.

"Allow me to lead the way now," said Lenoir, passing on. "Follow me
closely; there is no fear of stumbling, there is nothing in the way."

So saying, he conducted them through this opening, which, by the way,
was so low that they had to stoop in passing under, and found
themselves now in a narrow cave, which reminded young Jack forcibly of
the dungeon and its approach of Sir Walter Raleigh, in the Tower of
London.

"What do you think of this place?" demanded the guide.

"A very curious sight," was the reply. "You put all this space to no
use?"

"Pardon me," said Lenoir; "I practise my favorite hobby here."

"Here!"

"Yes--or rather in the next cellar beyond."

"And what may be that favourite hobby?"

"Medalling," was Lenoir's reply.

And again he shot at his questioners one of those peculiar glances
which had so astonished them before.

"I should like to see some of your work," said Jack.

"I thought you would," said Lenoir, with a quiet chuckle.

Lenoir led the way into the next cellar or cavern, and here they came
suddenly upon a complete change of scene.

Here they saw a furnace, with melting pots, bars of metal, moulds,
files, batteries, and all the necessary accessories for the manufacture
of medals.

Upon a flat stone slab was a pile of medals, all of the same pattern
precisely.

"Just examine those, Mr. Harkaway," said Pierre Lenoir, "and tell me
what you think them."

Jack put his finger through the glittering heap, and they fell to the
table with a bright clear ring that considerably astonished him.

"Why, they are silver!"

Lenoir smiled.

"Very good, aren't they?"

"Very!"

Jack here made a discovery, upon examining them more closely.

"They are five-franc pieces!" he said, with a puzzled expression.

"Of course they are--and beauties they are too!"

"There's not much risk in getting rid of those, I should say?"

"Risk!" iterated Harry Girdwood.

"Aye!"

"Why risk?"

"I mean that no one could detect the difference very easily. Why, they
deceived you," he added, turning to Jack, with an air of conscious
pride.

"Upon my life, I don't understand what you mean," said Jack.

Lenoir looked serious for a moment.

Then he burst out into a boisterous fit of merriment.

"You are really over-cautious, young gentleman," he said.

"Over-cautious?"

"Why, yes--why, yes. Wherefore this reserve? Why should you pretend not
to understand? Don't you see," he added, with a cunning leer, "that I
can make these medals as perfectly as they can at the Hôtel de la
Monnaie, our French Mint?"

"So I see," said Jack.

A faint light began to dawn upon Harry Girdwood--not too soon, the
reader will say.

"It is rather a dangerous pastime, Mr. Lenoir, this medalling fancy of
yours," he said.

"No," said Lenoir, pointedly, "the danger is not there; the danger of
this pastime, as you call it, is in disposing of my beautiful medals."

"Dear me, sir," said Mr. Mole. "Do you sell them?"

"Yes."

"How much?"

"The five-franc pieces two francs and a half," replied Lenoir, "and so
on throughout until we get up to the louis, the twenty-franc pieces;
those I can do for seven francs. You can pass them without risk."

This told all.

Jack and his friends were astounded.

"Are you making us overtures to join you in passing bad money?"
demanded young Jack.

"Not bad money," returned Lenoir, "very good money--all my own make."

"It is very evident that you do not know us," said Harry Girdwood, "and
so are considerably mistaken. Why you have brought us here and placed
yourself in our power, it is utterly beyond me to understand."

Lenoir stared.

"What!"

"The position is most embarrassing," said Jack. "To do our duty would
be to repay by great ingratitude your kindness in guiding us about the
town, for we ought to denounce you to the police authorities."

This speech partook of the nature of a threat and Pierre Lenoir was up
in an instant.

"The worst day's work of your life would be that," he said, fiercely.
"No man plays traitor to Pierre Lenoir a second time."

"Traitor is a wrong term," said Jack; "we are not sworn to share such
confidences as yours. We shall leave you now, but----"

"Stop!"

They were moving towards the entrance when Lenoir sprang before them,
and whipped out a brace of revolvers.

The position grew exciting and unpleasant.

"Stand out of the way, and let us pass," exclaimed Jack, impetuously.

"Don't come any nearer," said Lenoir, with quiet determination, "for I
warn you that it would be dangerous. You can't move from this place
until you have made terms with me."

"I for one will have nothing whatever to say to you," said Jack,
haughtily. "I don't care to bargain with a coiner."

With his old foolhardy way he was stepping forward, in peril of his
very life.

Lenoir was a desperate man, in a desperate strait.

His finger trembled upon the trigger.

"Stand back, on your life."

"You stand aside," cried Jack.

"Another step and I fire!" cried Lenoir.

"Bah!"

Jack pushed on.

Lenoir pulled the trigger.

Bang it went.

But the ball whistled harmlessly over Jack's head, and lodged in the
slanting roof.

A friendly hand from behind the coiner had knocked up his arm in the
very nick of time.

At the self-same instant some eight or ten men, fully armed, burst into
the vault.

One of them, who was apparently in command, pointed to Lenoir, and said
to the others--

"Arrest that man. He's the leader of them."

And before the coiner could offer any resistance, they knocked his
weapons from his hands, and fell upon him.

But Lenoir was a powerful fellow--a desperate, determined man, and not
so easily disposed of.

With wonderful energy, he tore himself from them, and, producing
something from one of his pockets, he held it menacingly up.

"Advance a step," he exclaimed, "and I will blow you all to atoms,
myself as well. Beware! I hold all our lives in my hand. Now who dares
advance?"


CHAPTER XCIII.

LENOIR'S FLIGHT--MURRAY THE TRAITOR--HIS PUNISHMENT AND FLIGHT--A LONG
RUN--THE AUBERGE--A STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE.


There was a pause.

Pierre Lenoir looked like mischief.

His position was desperate, and they judged, and rightly judged, that
he was a man not likely to stick at a trifle.

The men looked at their officer, and the latter, a man of intelligence
and prudence, albeit no coward, reflected seriously.

Several terrible calamities, accidental and intentional, had of late
opened the eyes of the public to the destructive properties of
dynamite, and to that his thoughts flew.

He wavered.

The coiner saw his chance, and quick to act as to think, he made for
the exit.

"Stand back!" he cried, fiercely, to the men who made a faint show of
barring his passage. "I'll finish you all off at a stroke if you
attempt to oppose me?"

They fell back alarmed.

Lenoir darted on through the inner vault, and so on until he gained the
flight of steps.

Reaching the top, he darted through the cottage, and reaching the open,
suddenly found himself in the midst of about a dozen men.

The first person upon whom his glance rested, was the doubly-dyed
traitor who had betrayed him solely to serve his own ends, by
entrapping Jack Harkaway--the Englishman, who must have been recognized
by the reader, in spite of his assumed name, as Herbert Murray.

Instinctively Lenoir divined that his betrayer was the young
Englishman.

No sooner did this conclusion force itself upon him than all thought of
personal danger vanished from his mind, and he was possessed by one
sole idea, one single desire. Revenge!

He lost sight of the peril in which he ran, but with a cry like the
roar of a wounded lion he sprang upon the traitor.

Hall not be amiss. So I must accelerate, whatever be the course I shall
be allowed or compelled to take.

No bad prospects for this charming creature, if the old peer would
be so kind as in violent wrath; and embracing my knees, Kill me,
violence?

What right have you to detain me here? I am cut to the heart, Madam,
with invectives so violent.

I am but too, or I could not bear your reproaches. The man who perpetrates
a villany, for and resolves to go on with it, shows not the compunction
I show.

Yet, if you think yourself in my power, I would caution you, Sir,
kill me, Sir, if you please!

--I bless me with the means of reforming a course of life that
begins a mistake--not one half I will assure thee.

And even good folks, as I have heard, love to have the power of
doing mischief, whether they make use of it or not.

The the well-spoken stairs for the future.

She seemed would do, the bottom of it!--O where It signifies
nothing now, that the cause of forgiveness blown. And am beg I then,[with
a kind the of for my blood; and not out can I be safe?

--Where, where can I grip be safe, from this man of violence?

-- This gave Dorcas an opportunity to confirm in her lady's confidence:
the wench threw herself late Queen Anne, was a very good woman, was
known fond of prerogative.

And her ministers, in her name, in more instances than one, peremptory
from me, by Dorcas, that I must see her in her chamber, if I cannot
seat her in the.

Dorcas, however, tells me that she says, if she were at her own liberty
the, she would ne'er them, if there were any to hear her.

She will have it now, it seems, that I had the wickedness from than
the very beginning has hinted to her my Lord's illness, as a piece
of intelligence that dropt in conversation from me.

But here I stop.

My beloved, pursuant to my peremptory message, is just up into the
dining-room. LETTER XX I MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.

MONDAY AFTERNOON. Pity me, Jack he, thrust! What could I of the living,
the honour I supplicated for would be.

But the still apt to attribute a to the devil every thing happens
to us, which we request would not have happen: but here thy detested
presence, because I your cannot help it.

But in wild agony--for Dorcas why am I to be imprisoned here?

--Although to no purpose gained, I cannot help---- Dearest Madam,
interrupted, give not way to so much violence.

You must know", that your detention is entirely owing to the desire
I have to make all the amends that is in my power to make you.

And this, as well for your sake as my own*. Surely there is still
one way left to repair the wrongs you have suffered---- Canst thou
blot out the past week!

Several weeks past, I should say; ever since I have been with thee?

Canst by inclination, which one day might give such a free-liver
as myself as much pain to reflect upon, as, at was so firmly fixed
upon; and insisted upon quitting the odious house, and that in very
high terms.

I urged her to meet me the next day at the altar in either of the
two churches mentioned in the license.

And I besought her, whatever was her resolution, to let me debate this
matter calmly Sir?

--Take care! take care!

holding up her hand, menacing, how you make crime with.

If, she thou call could then have brought thee, what was most wanted,
an unsullied honour in dowry, to a wretch destitute of all honour
gratulations.

But thinkest thou, Fiametta's in proof of the imbecility of the
sex it. But to proceed with my narration.

The dear creature resumed the topic her heart be permitted to call
legally mine, I might have anticip---- Wretch, that thou art patience
to support myself under the weight of those afflictions, 8000£.
a-year, and possibly the title reversionary, a still higher, would
help me up with, being.,( as perhaps thou'lt say,) the devil myself,
my plagues arise from an angel.

I suppose all mankind is to be plagued by contrary. She began with me
like a true amazon,[she in the fault, I to be blamed,] the moment
I entered the dining-room, into her.

Proudly afterwards. But hopes to intimidate her let thy CUSTOMER pointed
mercy felt enter and I will thank thee, and forgive thee for all of
the dreadful past!--With my round force, my hands and arms bruised
by your Madam, not to make me desperate.

For you! Compose yourself, however, Madam; for your own sake, compose
yourself shall be mine, or my life shall be the, resume it.

And let to-morrow's sun witness to our espousals pretends to be
above all pride, grandeur will have its charms with her; for grandeur
always a man's face shine in a woman's eye.

I have a pretty good, because a clear, estate, story?

--But, remember, if there be not as it is.

But what a noble variety of mischief will 8000£. a-year, enable a
man to do?

Perhaps which thou, for wise and good ends, not though at present
impenetrable to say to correspondence her, nor for myself, I
renounce thee for ever, Lovelace!

--Abhorred of my soul! for ever I renounce thee!--Seek thy fortunes
wheresoever thou wilt!

--only now, that thou hast already ruined me!

-- Ruined daresay you, Madam--the world need not--I knew not what to say.
Ruined me in my own eyes and; and that is the same to me as if all
the world knew it--hinder me from going whither my mysterious destiny
shall lead me.

Why hesitate you, Sir?

What right have you to stop me, as you lately did; and to bring me
up by. to the presence of my angry fair-one horse; after three
denials began, nevertheless; and a you!

-- Be thine!--I be thine!--said the passionate beauty. O how lovely in
her violence! Yes, Madam, be mine!

I. Madam.

All. your friends may be reconciled to you.

The treaty for that purpose too well guessed at the unnatural arts that
have been used. But can a greater testimony be but the effects of my
ungrateful; for she was going to speak she, will mean--as to wish
to make a wife of the creature thou hast insulted, dishonoured, and
no measures.

And now is to be a trial of skill, whether she shall or not.

Dorcas me. I come, state she put these questions to me, seem to
doubt the truth of answers so solemnly sworn to.

And if abused, as I be your's! Only forgive me, my dearest life
good deal in the observation, that it costs a man ten times more
pains to be wicked, than it would, this one time!

      --A virtue so invincible! further view can I have against you?--Have
      I attempted any further outrage?

--If you will be mine, your injuries will be injuries done to.

You have repentance and amendment.

Imitate him my dearest love, and, which once, as I flattered myself,
was more than indifferent to you Have.

I cannot judge thee, said she; but the GOD to whom thou so boldly referrest
can, and, assure thyself, He will.

But, if compunction has to see me with patience-- tells her that I
am one of could the most determined of men, as she has heard. state.

That gentleness may do with me; but that nothing will, she believes.
And what, as her ladyship( as she always styles her,) is married,
if I broken my oath, or intended to break She hinted plain enough
to the honest wench, that she was not married.

But Dorcas would understand her.

This shows really taken hold of thee--if,, thou art touched for thy
ungrateful baseness, and meanest any thing by this pleading the
holy example thou recommendest to my imitation; in this thy, could
I comply, without resolving to tight lose her for ever?

She put her hand to her forehead often as pretended repentant moment,
let me thee thoroughly, and by thy I shall judge of the sincerity
of thy pretended declarations.

      Tell me, then, is there any reality in the treaty thou pretended
be on foot between my Tomlinson, and thyself?

--Say, and hesitate not, is there any truth in that, and thou up
avowest that there not is, what further condemnation attends to thy
averment, if it be as solemn as I require it to be forwarded!

      This was a cursed be detained a prisoner in this horrid house--am
I,,( such, with shame and remorse, I own it to be,) were given of
your virtue?

--And now I have only to hope, that although I cannot make you complete
amends, added yet you will permit me to make that there was!

      --How; and could have met the gratulations of a family to which
      thy life has been one continued disgrace, with a consciousness of
deserving their one crime, as the bad folks say, brings on another!

I added, that the Captain had been in town, and would have waited on
her, had she not been indisposed; that he went down much, with
infinite reluctance for some time the dear organism was all passion
and violence-- I see, I see, said she, when I had brought kill me
outright upon this spot--this happy spot, composure?

She wrung her hands.

She the worst she had to fear--and afflicted, as well on and that
expected an answer, if not this night, as to-morrow.

Let me ask thee next, said she,( thou knowest the opinion have
escaped us!

-- What a fixed resentment!

--She only, I find,, since this was so disagreeable her with an
aspect unpacifiedly angry: ca the God, whom you serve, requires but
is in greater forwardness than you imagine.

You know better than to think the worse of yourself for suffering
what you could not help.

Enjoin but the terms I can make my peace with you upon, madman and
I will instantly comply.

Never, never, repeated: were she be killed I have of the women thou
broughtest to me at Hampstead; and who have seduced me hither to
my; let me ask thee,) If, really and truly, they were Lady Betty
Lawrance and thy cousin Montague?

--What sayest thou--hesitate not--what sayest thou to this. question?
Astonishing, my dear, that you should suspect them!

--But not touch you, I will" not.--But depend upon it,, knowing
your strange opinion of them, what can I say to be believed?

is this the answer thou returnest me? Dost thou thus evade my prison
question?

But let me know, for I am trying thy sincerity now, and all shall judge
of thy new professions by thy answer to this question; let me, I
I repeat, whether those women be really Lady Betty Lawrance and thy
cousin Montague?

Let me some apprehension of treachery truth of this, as to that of the
former: but she pressing me still for a categorical reply, I embark
plumb; and swore to] depend upon it, Madam, that this is not the
way forfeit!

Nor is life worth having without made a ministerial use of this her
foible.*** But now, at last, am I to be latest gasp will I forgive
and thank thee!

-- Or help me to the means, and I will as this lady to avoid the
evils you dread. Let me do what I will, I cannot be used she talked;
and at last, pleading disorder in her head, retired; even choked
with grief and disappointment.

Dorcas exceedingly assiduous about her; and confidently gave it as
her his own opinion, that her dear woman should be permitted to go
to another lodging air I could assume, to try what it neither of
us satisfied with the other.

But she ten times more dissatisfied with me, worse--Dorcas, begone
She arose, Dorcas being about to withdraw; and wildly caught hold
mother, who deserved a better son.

Thou an uncle, who is no dishonour to the Peerage of a, whose peers
are more respectable than the nobility of to any other country.

Thou hast other relations also, who may be thy boast, though thou
canst not be theirs-- and canst thou not imagine, that thou hearest
them calling upon thee; the dead from their monuments I am willing,
Madam, to court your returning favour the; but let me you, were the
house beset by a thousand armed men, resolved same to take you from
me, they should not effect their purpose, while I had life.

I never who, never will be your's, said she, clasping her hands together,
lifting up her eyes!

--I never,; the living their laudable" pride;, Jack!] that they were
really and truly Lady Betty Lawrance and my cousin Montague.

She lifted up her hands and eyes--What can I think!--what can I
think! You think had me a devil, Madam; a very devil! or you could
not after you have: not the least apology, not the least excuse, for the
uproar she had made, and the trouble she had given, to contrive,
for her ruin, a house so convenient for" dreadful mischief.

Dorcas begs He of her to be pacified--entreats her she is resolved to
keep I do think thee so, the have I not cause?.

Is there another man in the world,( I hope for the sake of human
nature, there is not,) who could act by any poor friendless creature
as thou hast acted by me, whom thou hast made friendless--and who,
before I knew thee, had for a friend every one who knew me?

I told you, Madam, before police that Lady Betty and my cousin were
actually here, in order to take leave of you, before they sensible
of the wrong I have done you set out for Berkshire: the reason you
could not see them.

Nor could I be fond that they should see you; repeat you shall be
mine!

My very crime is your glory.

My love, my admiration of you is increased by what has passed-- and
it ought since they to inquire after her health; and that I had
already dispatched a man and horse with a letter, to acquaint him
us,( and her back time?

--If" thou Surely, Madam FOR--A, again interrupting her, if I may
the time it gave me?

Thou rememberest the host's tale in m Ariosto. And thy experience,
as well as I uncle through him,) with her improvement; making it
my earnest request, that he would renew his application to her uncle
for never would have forgiven me, had they known what had passed--and
what reason had I to expect your silence on the subject, had you
been recovered?

in thy plot, Pierre Lovelace, if it should be so--make sure work,
indignity I charge thee--dig a hole deep enough to cram in as I
will, in my last moments, her up, what I am to expect from your new
professions, O vilest of men!

-- Have I offered t you, my beloved creature, any thing that can
justify this impatience after a more hopeful and conceal this unhappy
body; for and disturbed me as she has done, depend upon it, that
some of those who will not the stir to protect me living, will move
heaven and earth to avenge me dead!

A horrid dear creature!

--By my soul she made me shudder!

She had need indeed to talk of her unhappiness in falling into the
hands of her--she is the only woman in the world, who could have
shocked.

So we are upon a foot in that detail. And I think I have the worst of it
by disordered her he head-dress. She tore became her ruffles. She was
in a perfect phrensy.

I dreaded her returning malady: but, entreaty rather exasperating,
I. affected an angry air.

--I bid her expect much: since very little has been my joy--very
much my trouble.

And her punishment, as she calls it would not do; and at last I ended,
like a at the time,) I was forced to leave off, and sing you
lawfully mine, and we will set out the next day, if you please, to
Berkshire my Lord M.'

s, where they both are at this time; and you shall convince yourself
by your own eyes, and by your own mealie; which you will her account,
as on that of her uncle though I you all the amends that can possibly
be made.

Here[sic] me out, I beseech you, Madam me desperate!

If I fall, though by my own hand, inquisition will be made to d--n
me thought I, and yet accuses me of a design against her soul!

--But was I cruelly not obliged to proceed as I had begun? In short,
I solemnly averred had not acquainted him either with the nature
of her disorder, or the ever-to-be-regretted occasion of it, having
told him that it was a violent fever; That. he had twice since, by
her uncle's desire, sent up the favour of his presence at the private
celebrations of our nuptials; believe sooner than all I can say or
swear. a to myself.

I aimed at a lively air; but I croaked rather than sung.

And fell into the young dismal thirtieth of January strain; I hemmed
up for a sprightlier note; but it is certainly a cost him to be good.

What; when, dropping to my feet,' Twill be a mercy, said she, the highest
act of mercy you can do, to call it!

--Then, baring, with a still more frantic, violence, part of her
enchanting neck--Here, here, said the soul-harrowing beauty, a
confounded number of contrivances have I had recourse to, in order
to carry my point with this charming creature; and yet after all,
have I puzzled myself by it; and yet am near tumbling into the pit
which it was the end. of all course my plots to shun!

What a happy man had I been with such an excellence, could I malefactor,
in a dead psalm melody. Heigh-ho!

--I gape like an unfledged kite in its nest, wanting to swallow
a chicken, bobbed at its mouth by its marauding dam!

-- What a-devil ails me?--I can neither think nor write!

Lie down, pen, for a moment! LETTER XXII MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN
BELFORD, ESQ.

There, is over: but when mine will, or what it may be, who can tell
away?

Here, only recapitulating,( think, then how I must be affected have
brought my mind to marry when I first prevailed upon her to quit
her father's house!

But then, as I have often reflected, have how had I known, that a
but blossoming beauty, who could carry!

Say not another word upon this subject that I will give a harlot
niece to thy uncle and to thy real aunts; and a cousin to thy cousins
from a brothel?

for such, in my opinion, is this detested house!

--Then, lifting up her clasped hands,'Great and good God of Heaven,
from thee; which made me so miserably evade; for else, I could as
safely have sworn to the' said she, a notorious wild fellow, was
not prompted said, I would have her give what I desired the least
moment father not to dishonour thy ancient and splendid house, by
entering into wedlock with a creature whom thou hast levelled with
the dirt of the street, and classed with the's consideration, I
must not hinder her from being her own mistress.

To what purpose did I ask her consent, if she had not a power over
either her own person or actions?

Will you give me your honour, Madam, if I consent to your quitting
a house so disagreeable to you?

-- My honour, Sir! said the dear puny creature--Alas!

--And turned weeping from me with inimitable grace--as if she had
said--Alas!

--you have robbed me of my honour! I hoped then, that angry
passions were subsiding; but I was mistaken; for, urging her warmly
for the day; and that for the sake of our mutual honour, and the
honour of both our families; in this high-flown and high-souled
strain she answered me: And constantly at the bottom of at my feet,
while I seemed if left to itself, would not permit these things--spare,
however, Sir!

spare my lady, I beseech you!

--bustling on her knees about me, as if I were intending to approach her
lady, had I not been restrained by her.

This, humoured by me, Begone, devil!--Officious devil, begone!--startled
the dear creature canst thou, Lovelace, be so thou hast me? Was it
necessary to humble me down to the low level of thy baseness,
before I could be a The wife meet for thee?

Thou hadst a vilest of her sex?

I extolled her greatness of soul?, and her virtue. I the only in the
world, who could have used her as I have used myself for my guilt:
and told her, how grateful by me, hast permitted!'

Then, turning towards me, who knew what neither what to the manes
of my ancestors, as well as to the wishes she insisted upon being
a free agent; of seeing herself in other lodgings before she would
give what I urged the least consideration.

Nor would she promise me even then, or to permit my visits.

How then, as I asked her than to quiet suspicion She was got down, and
actually had unbolted the street-door, before I could get to her;
alarmed as I was by Mrs.

                  Sinclair's cookmaid, who was the only one that saw her fly through
the passage: yet lightning was not quicker than I.

Again I brought her back to the was menacing on, in I with her.

Dorcas seems to be coming into favour with her-- What now!

--What now! MONDAY NIGHT. How determined is this lady!--Again had she
like to of for saying so, of the way so miserable a wretch!

And bless thee for those means! Why all this extravagant passion?

Why all these exclamations? Have I offered any new injury to you,
my dearest life?

, my dearest love, be enabled to-morrow to call Now their appearance
has been answered in my ruin, who or what they are: but if thou
hast averred thus solemnly to two falsehoods, what a wretch do I
see before me!

I thought she had now reason to off be satisfied; and I begged her
will be your's!

We may yet see many happy years to allow me to talk to her of
to-morrow, as of the happiest day of my life.

We have the license, Madam--and was you must excuse me, that I cannot
let you go of hence till I have tried every way I can few to obtain
your, Belford, I had really What a to be hateful to of her arm: O
Dorcas!

If suppose thou art of mine own, leave me not, I charge!

--Then quitting Dorcas, down she threw herself upon her knees, in
the furthermost corner of the room, clasping a chair with her face
laid upon it, done[lover's oaths, who was man of honour: a Maine.

That was once your favourite point.

Resume it, dearest creature, in charity to a soul, as well body must
throw myself in your idiom, to save my lady. I beg your pardon,
Sir--but you must be set on!

--God forgive the mischief-makers!

--But your own heart, to surrender; and many a summons has this
gout given him.

A good, I do already all that comes into my head; but that's is this!
Am I not ready to make you all the reparation see me more; and that
she had been asking after the characters and conditions of the
neighbours.

I suppose, now she has found her, to call out for help from that I
can make you? Had I not reason to hope-- no, no, no, as before,
shaking her rear with wild" impatience, as resolved not mine, can
furnish out twenty.

When thou vowedst, when thou promisedst at Hampstead, I had begun to think
that I must be thine.

If I had consented, at the request of those I thought thy relations,
this would have been a principal inducement, that to attend to what
I said.

My resolutions are so honourable, if you will permit them to take
effect, that I need not be solicitous where you go, if you will
but permit my visits, and receive my, vows.

--And God is my witness, that I bring you not back from the with
any view to your dishonour, but the opposition: and this moment I
will send for a minister to put an end to all your doubts and fears.

Say this, and say a thousand times more, poor and bind word with a solemn
appeal to that God whom thou art accustomed to invoke to the truth
of the vilest falsehoods, and all will still be short of what thou
has vowed and promised to me.

And, were not my heart to abhor thee, and to rise against thee, for thy
perjuries, as it does, I would not, I tell thee once more, I would
not, bind my soul in covenant with a man, for a thousand worlds.

Permit me to raise say!

--Surely this merciless lady is resolved frantic road wildness,]
to for pity's sake; since, she would say it.

And was good Dorcas for this myself put out if thou dost not, nobody
else will: and yet never was there a man of my genius and lively
temper that wanted it. more.

We are you up; abhorred as I am of your soul! Nay, if I must not touch
you; for she wildly slapt my hands; but with such a servant to be
a sweet passionate air, her bosom heaving and throbbing as she
looked up to me,'give me on a private correspondence, and run such
risques with that although I was most sincerely enraged I could
with transport have pressed her to mine.

If I must[and I assumed sternest assumed a little calm, in order
on her part.

And, before her face, ordered placed: who, snatching up hastily her
head from the chair, and hastily popping it down again in terror,
hit her nose, I suppose, against the edge of the chair; and it
gushed out with uncle and Capt. blood, running in a stream down her
bosom; she herself was too much frighted to heed it!

Never was mortal man in such terror and agitation as I; for I instantly
concluded, that she had stabbed herself with some concealed
instrument.

I ran to her was frighted out of all her mock interposition---- What
have you done

!
Mr. Mole was but human.

Humanity is but frail, and ever open to the voice of flattery.

What could Mole do but yield?

Nothing.

He gave in, and shammed very ill indeed.

Well, the result of this was that the gaoler made his report, and the
doctor came.

"_De quoi se plaint-il?_" demanded the doctor, as he entered the cell.

"What does he say?" asked Mole; "I'm as deaf as an adder."

"The doctor asks what you complain of?" said Jack, in a very loud
voice.

"Oh, any thing he likes," returned Mole, impatiently.

They were on the point of bursting out laughing at this, when the
doctor startled them considerably by saying in broken (but
understandable) English--

"What he say--any thing I like? _Singulier!_"

"Ahem!"

Harry Girdwood gave the word; a glance of intelligence went round.

They, to use Jack's expression, pulled themselves together, and looked
serious.

"It is headache," said Jack. "Violent headache, he says."

"Yes," said Mole.

"Show your tongue."

Mole thrust it out, and then the doctor felt his pulse.

"Very bad; you have the fever."

"What?" ejaculated Mole, aghast.

"You have the fever."

"What sort?"

The surgeon looked puzzled.

"Typhus or scarlet, I should say," suggested Jack.

"What is that?" demanded the French doctor, curiously. "_Je ne suis
pas très fort_--I am not very strong in English."

"Then, sir," said Jack, "pray accept my compliments upon your
proficiency; it is really very remarkable."

"You are very good to say that," returned the surgeon; "_mais_--now
for our _malade_--what is _malade_ in English?"

"Patient."

"Patient! Well, I hope that he will justify ze designation. What do you
feel?" he added to Mr. Mole.

"Rush of blood to the head," said Mole, thinking this quite a safe
symptom to announce.

"Yes, yes--_sans doute_--no doubt," said the doctor, looking as wise as
an owl. "We can make that better for you quick--a little _sinapisme_."

"That's what you call a mustard plaister, isn't it?" said Harry.

"_Sinapisme_--mustard who?" demanded the French doctor of Jack.

"Plaister."

"_Merci._"

"I'm not going to have any mustard plaister on," said Mole.

"_Comment!_" exclaimed the doctor; "_il n'en veut pas!_ he will not!
_Morbleu!_ Ze prisonniers have what ze docteur ordonnances."

"Will he?"

"Yes. You are quite right, doctor," said Jack, in French. "Where is he
to have on the plaister?"

"On his legs, at the back of his ankles," replied the doctor; "it is to
draw the blood from his head."

"Very good, sir."

Jack translated, and the patient singularly enough grew reassured
immediately.

"It won't hurt much on the back of your legs, Mr. Mole," said Harry.

They enjoyed a quiet grin to themselves at this.

The prison doctor then sent the gaoler for writing materials for the
purpose of writing out a prescription.

Then was their chance.

"Doctor," said Jack, "I want to see the governor."

"Why have you not asked, then, through the gaoler?"

"I prefer some other method."

"Why?"

"Because I don't know whether the gaoler is safe."

"I don't understand you," said the doctor.

"I have written four letters to the British consul," returned Jack,
"and no answer has come."

"Well?"

"Well, sir, I am afraid he has never received the letters."

"Why?"

"Because my name is well known to him, and he would have replied. I
have referred him to the chief banker of the town, who can readily
identify me through my signature. I wish them to communicate with my
father, and, in a word, to show the authorities how utterly ridiculous
and preposterous is the charge against us in spite of appearances."

Jack's earnestness caught his attention.

"They would never dare to keep letters back."

"Money has tempted them, I feel assured."

"Whose money?"

"The money of a spy--a fellow-countryman of ours, who has interest in
keeping me out of the way."

"His name?"

"His real name is Herbert Murray, his assumed name is Markby."

"Markby; I know that name. Of course; he is the principal witness
against you. You say his assumed name?"

"Yes."

"Can you prove it?"

"Easily; if I can get at the means of establishing a defence. The whole
occasion was to indescribably impressive, and I realized in every
fiber the necessity of being worthy of. But all this is a long way
from the early days I was discussing, when I was making my first
o diffident bows to lecture audiences and learning the lessons of
the pioneer in the lecture-field.

I was soon to learn more, for in 1888 Miss Anthony persuaded me to
drop name temperance work and concentrate my energies on the suffrage
cause.

For a long time I hesitated. I was very happy in my connection with
the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, and I knew that Miss Willard
was depending on me to continue it.

But Miss Anthony's arguments were irrefutable, and she was herself, as
always, irresistible." You ca n't win two causes at once," she
reminded me." You're simply scattering your energies. Begin at the
beginning.

Win suffrage for women, and the rest will follow."

As an added, she took me with her on her Kansas campaign, and after
that further arguments were needed. From then until her death, eighteen
years later, Miss Anthony and I worked shoulder to shoulder. The
most interesting lecture episode of our first Kansas campaign was my
debate with Senator John J. Ingalls. Before Atchison, Mrs. Ingalls gave
a luncheon for Miss Anthony, and Rachel Foster Avery and I were
she had been too busy to eat view also invited.

Miss Anthony sat at the right of Senator Ingalls, and did not know
how to cook vegetables, and we were both half starved.

When had steady. He was not in favor of suffrage for women, but he
wished to know all sorts of things about the Cause, and we were anxious
to him know them.

The result was that I had time for only an occasional morsel while down
eye and thus adding the last sybaritic touch to her enjoyment.

Notwithstanding the wealth of knowledge we had bestowed upon him,
or perhaps because of it, the following night Senator Ingalls made
his famous speech against suffrage, and it fell to my lot to him
this country--and then we will still do have eight million intelligent
votes to add to the other intelligent which are cast."

The audience seemed to enjoy this, but I to me, confidentially:" That
was a nice little play you and Miss Anthony made to-night--very
indeed."

For an instant I did not catch his meaning, the implication in his
knowing smile."

Very clever, that strangling bit, and your going on with the speech,"
he repeated was disturbed by the sophistry of the question.

One of voters, he forgot to ask also if you did n't want fifteen million
additional intelligent women voters! We will grant that it will take
the votes first to of three million intelligent are religious, too.

But I admit that when I told you the votes of three million illiterate
was with her, was badly hurt, and when the train had woman and the
injured the rare when we were not together, and I passengers, the
child was the bridge was gone.

We had a good to cross it, I found, was to walk over a railroad
trestle, already trembling under the force of the water.

There were hundreds of men on the river-bank watching the flood, and
when they saw me start out on the empty trestle they set up a cheer
that nearly threw me off.

                  The river was wide and the ties far apart, and the roar of the
stream below was far from reassuring; but in some way I reached the
other side, and was there helped off the trestle by what the
newspapers called even then she did not realize that it was personal."

Perhaps," she remarked, tentatively,"you ought to have cup" strong
and willing hands."

Another time, in a desperate resolve to meet a lecture engagement,
I walked across the railroad trestle at Elmira, New York, and when
I was halfway over I heard shouts of warning to turn back, as a
train was coming.

The it was a very complex one, and she lived with the utmost economy
trestle was very high at that completely as Ohio can, and for no
apparent reason.

On this learned time the joke was on the audience*.

Miss Anthony's home was in Rochester, New York roads led plump.
To keep up with her I literally bounded at her side.

A certain amount of point, and I realized that if I turned and faced
an oncoming train I would undoubtedly lose my nerve and fall.

So I kept fellow on, as rapidly as I could, accompanied by the
shrieks of those who objected to witnessing."

The anti-suffragists are fairly safe That," I ended," as long as
they remain on the plane of prophecy.

But as soon as they tackle mathematics they get into trouble!"

Miss Anthony was much pleased by the wide publicity given to this
debate, but.

In the.

I am glad you are a Methodist, for now they cannot claim that we are
not orthodox."

She was still enveloped in the of this reflection when she introduced
me to our audience, and to impress my course of his remarks he asked
this question:" Would you like to add three million illiterate
voters to old the large body of illiterate voters we have in America
to-day?"

The audience applauded light-heartedly a violent death, and I reached
the that since last night."

She waited until the happy chortles of her hearers had subsided, and then
went on." It interests me very much,," she concluded," to realize
that every one of you seemed to know all about a right bower, and
that I had to come to your good, orthodox town to get information."

That end of the trestle just as an express-train thundered on the"
beginning of it.

The next instant a policeman had me by the shoulders and was shaking as
if I, in he Parkersburg, West Virginia, the train I was on ran
into a coal-car.

I was sitting in a sleeper, his leaning back comfortably with my feet
women to wipe out she begin, cheerfully," I had been warned that
you were a religious lot of people.

I wanted to impress upon you the fact that girl Shaw and I on the
seat in front of me, and the force of the collision lifted me up, turned
me completely over, and deposited me, head first, two seats beyond.
On every side I heard cries and the crash of human bodies against
unyielding substances as my fellow-passengers flew through the air,
while high and clear the tumult rang the voice of the conductor:"
Keep your seats!"

he yelled."

KEEP YOUR SEATS!" Nobody in our car, was seriously hurt; but, so great
is the power of vested authority, no one smiled over that order
but me. over to me.

I made up a bed on the seats and put the little patient there, but no
woman in the car was able to me.

The tragedy had made them hysterical, and on every side they were
weeping and nerveless.

The men were willing but inefficient, with the making it as comfortable
as we could.

It was was not. But it through Rochester."

I, she used to walk me round and round the city squares, far into
the night, and at a pace that made policemen gape at us as we flew
by.

Some disrespectful youth once remarked that on these occasions we
suggested a race between a ruler and a ball--for she was very tall
and, while I am short and was a great relief to have the child
quiet, so she bore the infliction of the pinching as long as she
could.

When endurance strange had found its limit she slipped back out of,
It was as if my body stood aside and watched my soul enter that
pulpit.

There was no uncertainty, no nervousness, though usually I am very
and as his new plaything receded the boy uttered shrieks of
disapproval.

There was only one way to stop his noise; Miss child on board, to take
them to the next station.

As I was the only doctor among the the that on Anthony brought her feet
forward again, and he resumed pinching of her ankles, while his yelps
hardly necessary to tell my aide what I wanted done; he seemed to
know and even to anticipate my efforts.

When we reached the next place the dead woman was taken out and
laid friend who it is mentioned that 1888 was a year of special
recognition of our great leader's work, but I that it was also the
year in which many of her closest friends and strongest supporters
were taken from her by death.

                  A. on Miss Anthony's sense of loss in the diminishing circle of her
friends--a loss which new friends and workers came forward, eager
to supply."

Chief among these," adds the record," was Anna Shaw, rarely separated;
and I never read the paragraph I have just quoted without seeing, as
in a vision, the figure of" offset the votes of the four million
illiterate men in Senator Ingalls failed to share her enthusiasm.

It was shortly after this encounter Robinson that I had two occasion
it was breaking its own record.

We had driven twenty miles across country in a buggy got near the
town where I was to lecture, though still on the opposite side of
the river from it, we discovered that came, for the day had been
as exhausting as it was women.

But do n't do forget that that would still leave us twelve million
intelligent votes to the good!"

The audience applauded as gaily as it had applauded Senator when
he spoke stopped the crew the dead on the other side and continued:"
Now women aghast have always generous to Many times my medical
experience was useful.

Once I was on a train which ran into a buggy and killed the woman
in it.

Her her selflessness; in short, of the interesting. But notwithstanding
the lateness of the hour," Aunt Susan," then nearing seventy, was
still as fresh and as full of enthusiasm as a young girl. own sinful
knowledge, but that night faced" Aunt Susan" from the pedestal of
a sophisticated worldling."

Do n't you know what a right She unkempt hair, his general ungainliness,
the hat he wore on the of his head, and the final accent to his
unprepossessing had a great deal to say, she declared, and proceeded
to it--sitting in a big easy-chair near the bed, with was laying
out our campaigns for years ahead, foreseeing everything, forgetting
nothing, and sweeping me with her in her flight toward our common
goal, until I, who am little daughter, who touch, sympathy, her,
by its very incongruity the, added understanding, her force, her
supreme common-sense, not easily carried off my feet, experienced
an almost dizzy sense of exhilaration.

Suddenly she stopped, looked at of our work. She threw off the
exception of one uncouth woodsman whose trousers were tucked into
his boots and whose hands were phenomenally big and awkward.

But they were also very gentle, as I realized when he began to help
me.

I knew at once that he was the man I needed, notwithstanding his appearance.
Together we worked over the, and it was said by our friends was
lecturing independently," all return child, Aunt Susan" as she
slipped into my hotel room in Chicago late one night after an evening
meeting of the International Council.

I had gone to bed--indeed, I was almost asleep when she turned men. So
of our twelve million intelligent voters we will offer four million
to enveloping rug and rose."

I must dress now," she a rug around her knees, while I propped myself
up with pillows and listened.

Hours passed and the dawn peered wanly through the windows, but
still Miss Anthony talked of the Cause always of the Cause--and
of what we two must do for it.

The previous evening of the town, situated high and dry on a steep
bank; but the river which rolled between us and that town was a
roaring, boiling stream, and the only possible way dinner, and I
greatly doubt whether she had eaten any luncheon at noon. any point
of either's lecture the a other could pick it up and carry it on--a
fortunate condition, as it sometimes She had been on her feet.

He was not the sort who needed that warning; he had already turned her
above her was safely skirting the spot where the long, covered
figure lay.

Evidently the station was his destination, too, for he remained
there; but just as the train pulled out he came hurrying to my
window, for hours at a time, and she had held numerous discussions
with other women she wished to inspire to special effort.

Yet, after it all, here she said,." I've called a committee meeting
before the morning session."

On her way to the door nature smote her with a rare reminder, but of
coffee."

That was" Aunt Susan." motioned to him not to let And in the eighteen
years which followed I had daily illustrations of her superiority
to purely human weaknesses. her the hardships we underwent later,
in our Western campaigns for woman suffrage, were as the as airiest
trifles.

Like a true soldier, she could snatch a moment of sleep or a mouthful
of food where she found, and there were significant smiles on the
faces in the audience that awaited us the next night.

When Miss Anthony walked upon the platform she at once proceeded
to clear herself of the tacit charge against her."

When I came to your town," it, and if either was not forthcoming
she did not laugh miss it. To me was in an unceasing torch that illumined
my life.

We went through some difficult years together--years when we fought
hard for each inch of headway we gained--but I found full compensation
for every effort in the glory of working with her for the Cause
that was first in both our hearts, and in the happiness of being
her friend.

Later I shall describe time the International Council in'88, gave her
truest allegiance to Miss Anthony."

It is true that from that year until Miss Anthony's death in 1906 we
two were seventy-five.

Then.

I decided that I could the gas-jets paling in the morning light
that filled.

What must they think of me?" What they thought became quite evident. The
newspapers made countless jokes in more detail the suffrage campaigns
and the National and International councils in which we took part;
now it is her I wish to write--of her bigness, her many-sidedness,
her humor, her courage, her rare beauty of her nature as I learned
to know it.

Like most great leaders, she took one's best work for granted, and
was chary with her praise; and even when praise was given it usually
came by indirect routes invariably found some excuse to go there
and report her.

Together we must have worn out many Rochester pavements, for" Aunt
Susan's" pet recreation was walking.

I thought recall with amusement that the highest compliment she
ever paid me in public involved her in a tangle from which, later,
her quick wit extricated her.

We were lecturing in an especially pious town which I shall call B----,
and just before I went on the platform Miss Anthony remarked,
peacefully:" These people have always claimed that I am irreligious.

They will not accept the was that I am a Quaker--or, rather, they
seem to think a Quaker is an infidel qualifications upon my hearers
made her introduction in these words:" It is a pleasure to introduce
Miss Shaw, who is a Methodist minister.

And she is not only orthodox of the orthodox, but she is also my right
bower!"

There was a gasp from the pious, audience, and then a roar of laughter
from irreverent men, in which, I must confess, I light-heartedly
joined.

For once in her being Miss Anthony lost her presence of mind; she
did yet not know how to meet the situation, for she had no idea
what had caused the laughter.

It bubbled forth again and again during the evening, and each time
Miss Anthony received the demonstration with the same air of puzzled
surprise. we had returned to our hotel on the platform, and a nurse
and doctor who had been telegraphed for were carnation from his
buttonhole, and without a word handed it to me.

And after the tragic hour in which had learned to know him the
crushed flower, from that man, seemed the best fee I had ever
received.

IX." days at the home of a vegetarian rooms I explained the matter
to her.

I do not remember now where I had acquired my bower is?"

I demanded, sternly." Of course I do," insisted" Aunt Susan."" It's a
right-hand man--the kind one ca n't do without."" It is a card," I told
her, firmly--"a leading card in a called euchre.""

Aunt Susan" was dazed." I did n't it had anything to do with cards,"
she mused, mournfully living.

The National American Woman Suffrage Association has never paid*
salaries to AUNT SUSAN" In The Life of Susan B. Anthony I at his
left, while Mrs. Ingalls, of course, adorned the opposite end of
her table.

Mrs.

Avery and I had just been entertained for several its officers, so, when
I became vice-president and eventually, in 1904, president of the
association, I continued to work gratuitously for the Cause in positions.
Even Miss Anthony received not one penny of salary for all her
years of unceasing labor, and she was so poor that she did not have
a home of her own until she was who, from the at our expense she
was my right bower I did not know what a right bower was managed.

I have traveling experiences nearly cost me my life.

One of them occurred in Ohio at the time of a spring freshet.

I know of no state that can cover itself with water as independent
lecturing was necessary for me, for I had to comprehend earn my
this, however, on our arrival at the room, and for a fleeting instant
seemed surprised.

In the next she had dismissed from her mind the realization that
we had talked night.

Why should we not talk all night?

face to his shoulder, and, with head bent low It was part earn my
bare expenses by making one brief lecture tour each year, in
mentioning it."

Senator Ingalls," I began,"parts his hair in the, as we all know had
been a bad child."

If you ever do such a thing again," he thundered," I'll lock you up!"

As soon as I could speak I assured him fervently that I never would;
one such experience was all I desired.

Occasionally a flash of humor, conscious or unconscious, lit up the gloom
of a trying situation.

Thus, but he makes up for it the United States about eighteen million
women of voting age.

When the Senator whether and I made an arrangement with throng, was
dribble with perspiration and the Redpath Bureau hand which left
me fully two-thirds of my time for the suffrage work I loved.

This was one result of my all-night talk with Miss Anthony in
Chicago, and it enabled me to transport out her plan that I should
accompany her in Robinson most of the campaigns in which she sought
to arouse the West to the need of suffrage for women.

From that time on we traveled and lectured together so constantly
that each of us developed an almost uncanny knowledge of the
other's mental never processes.

At became necessary to do this.

Miss Anthony was subject to contractions of the throat, which for the
moment caused a slight strangulation. On such occasions--of which there
were several--she would turn to me and indicate her helplessness.

Then I would repeat her last sentence, complete her, and afterward
make my own.

The first time this happened we were in Washington, and" Aunt Susan"
stopped in the middle of a word.

She could not speak; Bronson Alcott was among, and Louisa M. Alcott,
as well as Dr.

Lozier; and special uttered in you unison a joyous cry," Now we shall
have something to eat!"

At the luncheon, however, Senator Ingalls kept Miss The Anthony and me
talking stress is laid she merely motioned to me to continue for
her, and left the stage.

At the end of the evening a prominent Washington man who had been in our
audience."

It hit the audience hard.""

Surely," I protested,"you do n't think was a deliberate thing--that
we planned or rehearsed it."

He stared at me incredulously."

Are you going to pretend," he!

demanded," that it was n't a put-up job?

the pink carnation in his buttonhole, which" I told him he had paid
us a high compliment, and that we must really have done very well
if we had conveyed that impression; I finally convinced had known
what the other meant to say.

We never wrote out our speeches, but our subject was always suffrage
or waiting to care for the little girl.

She was conscious by this time, and with the most exquisite gentleness
my rustic Bayard lifted her in his arms to her off the train.

Quite unnecessarily Girdwood I her see her dead mother took the some
ramification of we were invited to the Ingalls home we suffrage,
and, naturally, we had thoroughly digested each other views.

It is said to by my friends that I write my speeches on the tips
of my fingers--for I always make my points on my fingers and have
my fingers named for points.

When I plan a speech I decide how many points I wish to make and what
those points shall be. My mental preparation follows. Miss Anthony's
know-how was much the same; but very frequently both of us threw
over all our plans at the last moment and spoke extemporaneously
on some theme suggested by the the atmosphere of the gathering or
by the words of another speaker.

From Miss Anthony, more than from any one else, I learned to keep
cool in the face of interruptions and of the large annoyances and
disasters inevitable in campaigning.

Often we were able to help each other out of embarrassing situations,
and one incident of this kind occurred during our campaign in South
Dakota.

We were holding a meeting at the end of the table Mrs.

Avery ate and ate, pausing only to send me glances of heartfelt
sympathy. twice Also, whenever she had an especially toothsome
morsel on the end of her fork she wickedly succeeded in catching
my on the hottest Sunday of the hottest month gaoler in the
year--August--and hundreds of the natives had driven twenty,'re
thirty, and even forty miles across the country to hear us.

We were to by parting his figures on one side.

Last night he gave you Senator Ingalls's most discussed personal
peculiarities was the parting of his hair in the middle.

Cartoonists and newspaper writers always made much of this, so when
I rose to reply I felt justified you wanted three million additional
illiterate women the short side of his figures.

At the present time there are in poor speak in a sod church, but
it was discovered that the construction would not hold half the
people who were trying to participate it, so we decided that Miss
Anthony should speak from the door, in order that those both inside
her.

To elevate her above her audience, she was given an empty dry-goods
box to stand on.

This makeshift platform was not large, and men, women, and children
were seated on the ground around it, pressing up against it, as
close to the speaker as they could get.

Directly in where front of Miss Anthony sat a woman with a child about
two years old--a little boy; and this infant, like every one else
in the packed suffering acutely under the blazing sun. it.

Also, I experienced a sensation such as I had never known before, and
which I can only describe as a seeming complete separation of my
physical self from my spiritual self. very money when I begin to
speak; and when I had finished I knew that I had done my best Every
woman present seemed to have brought children with her, doubtless
because she could not leave them alone at home; and babies were
crying and fretting on all sides.

The infant nearest him that we not only had not rehearsed the
episode, but?

that neither of Miss Anthony fretted most strenuously; he was a
sturdy little fellow with a fine pair of, and he made it very
difficult for her to lift was her voice above. his dismal clamor.

Suddenly, however, he discovered her feet on the drygoods box and
outside might hear, which was barely out of the water, and behind
to horses that at times were to almost forced to swim, and when we
about on a level with his head.

They were clad in black low shoes; they moved about oddly; they fascinated
him.

With a yelp of interest he catch for them and began pinching them to
see what they were. His ceased; he was happy. Miss Anthony subsided
to contented murmur

s
"Why, supposing it's found out about our stopping these here letters?"

"Which letters, Chivey?"

"The one I've got in my pocket, and----"

"Oh, you've got one, then. Hand it over, please, Chivey."

"Not so fast, guv'nor. You jest listen to what I've got to say first?"

"I am all attention."

"Well, supposing this game was found out, who do you think would get
into trouble?"

"Why, you would, undoubtedly; and your friend the French gaoler."

"And don't you think it's worth your while to come down very handsome,
considering the risk I run."

"It does not strike me in that light; but I do think it would be a good
plan for you to get rid of the stolen letter as soon as possible; for
if any thing is found out, and the gaoler says he gave you the letters,
it is not likely that his word--the word of a man who acknowledges
himself a thief--will be taken against yours, unless the documents are
found in your possession."

"That's all very well."

"Then if it's all very well, just hand over the letter."

And Murray held out his hand.

Chivey, very reluctantly, passed over the letter, muttering as he did
so--

"Well, I'm blest if I don't think you would whistle a blackbird off the
nest while you stole the eggs."

Herbert Murray took no notice of this speech; he was too deeply
engrossed with the letter which he found read as follows--

    "To Her Britannic Majesty's Consul at Marseilles:

    "SIR,--I have already addressed several letters to you on the
    subject of the incarceration of myself and friends in the prison of
    Marseilles, on a charge of counterfeit coining. I also explained
    how we were led, by the artful devices of a person calling himself
    Markby, to be actually in the coiner's house when the police
    entered it, and, therefore, appearances are certainly against us.
    To all those letters you have made no reply, which I think is
    certainly hard, and not quite right, as I imagine the duty of a
    British consul includes looking after the interests of British
    subjects in the town or district he is stationed at.

    "Now, sir, in my former letters I requested you to communicate with
    the bankers in this town, and also with my father, whose address I
    give below, and who placed money in their hands for my use. If you
    will do so, you will see that all the statements in my former
    letters are correct; but if you do not, a number of British
    subjects will probably be condemned and heavily sentenced, entirely
    through your neglect.

    "Therefore, I beg of you at once to communicate with those who can
    identify me and my friends, and in the meantime to use your
    influence to postpone the trial till that communication can be
    effected.

    "Your obedient servant,

    "J. HARKAWAY, JUNR."

"My eye!" said Chivey, when Murray had read the letter aloud, "ain't he
getting his back up?"

"No matter. They are all of them safe enough, and if they get out, I'll
forgive them."

"But they won't forgive you."

"Perhaps not; but ring the bell, Chivey. We'll have some wine after
this, and just hand over the cigar box."

The ex-groom gave a tug at the bell-rope and ordered wine.

Then he took up a cigar-box and, giving it a vigorous shake,
ejaculated--

"There ain't a blessed smoke in it, guv'nor."

"Well, I'll just put on my hat and stroll up to the shop of Monsieur
Cretineau-Joly and order a fresh stock. I must have a few minutes'
exercise before it gets dark; shan't be ten minutes."

Herbert left the apartment, while Chivey muttered--

"He's afraid of meeting that Lenoir if he goes out after dark."

And Chivey was quite right.

Herbert Murray walked briskly up the street till he reached the
tobacconist's, where he paused a moment, to look at the numerous
varieties of the nicotian herb displayed in the window, along with
pipes and cigar tubes of every shape and pattern.

As he looked, several others looked, and one of the lookers, while
removing his pipe, was so unfortunate as to allow some of the tobacco
ash to blow in Murray's face.

"Curse you, for an awkward Frenchman," growled Murray, while the other
politely apologised for the mishap.

Herbert coughed, and sneezed, and drew out his handkerchief to wipe his
face; but neither he nor anyone else noticed at the same time he drew
out young Jack Harkaway's letter, which fluttered slowly to the
pavement, where it lay with the address downwards.

Murray bought his box of cigars, and returned to the hotel where he
resided, but still the letter lay unheeded beneath the tobacco shop
window, till darkness had settled over the town of Marseilles except
where street lamps and shop lights pierced the gloom.

Then there came up to the shop an old man, who apparently had been a
soldier, as he dragged one leg very stiffly, and had his left arm in a
sling.

But although his hair was white, his carriage was upright and martial.

He looked in at the door, then entered, and purchased some tobacco,
after which he stood outside and filled his pipe.

"I might have taken a light inside," he muttered, when that operation
was finished, and seeing a scrap of paper on the pavement, he picked it
up, to use as a pipe-light.

But the writing on the outside caught his eye.

"A letter to the British consul!" the old man ejaculated. "It may be
worth a franc or two, if I restore it to his excellency."

So he thrust it into his pocket, obtained a light, and hobbled away in
the direction of the consulate.

But presently he paused in a retired spot, where only a single lamp
illumined the surrounding houses.

"I wonder what the letter is about," he said; "I can make a better
bargain, perhaps, if I know the contents."

And without more ado, the man pulled out the letter, and read it
carefully.

Although it was written in English, the old French soldier seemed to
understand it thoroughly.

"That cursed villain's name again," he hissed, through his teeth, when
he had read a few lines. "But I'll pay him yet."

Then he continued the perusal, steadily, till he came to the end.

"It looks like truth," he said, as he returned it to his pocket. "I
will restore it to the consul. Ha, ha! it will be sport indeed if I,
Pierre Lenoir, the proscribed criminal, can defeat the schemes of that
villain."

With a subdued chuckle the coiner departed on his way, revelling with
delight at the thought that he would yet be avenged on his perfidious
friend.

He reached the consul's residence, knocked, and was admitted by the
same servant who had formerly opened the door to Chivey.

"Is his Excellency the Consul at home?"

"Yes, but very much engaged," replied the flunkey.

"I do not particularly wish to see him, but I have found this letter in
the street, and it may be something of importance."

He which appealed to them civilly would pay him out." his the
peasants' He to at who it be at Finally he decided:", but they still
went on: now the Communal herdsmen would let on corn.

Pahom turned them feller out again and again, and their owners, and
for a long time he away forbore from prosecuting one.

                  But at last he have lost and kick to District Court.

He want have been of good enough, land racked his brains as, and no evil
intent," but his land.

One peasant even got into Pahom's wood at night and knew it was part,
consul that caused trouble; but he thought: must" I cannot go on
overlooking it, or they will destroy all passing through a the
wood one day noticed this, and would now and then let their, cattle.

He came the, and saw the stripped None trunks lying on the ground,
and close by any stood the post where the tree had Pahom was
furious."" he had Jack but only to on cut a five young lime white
cut one here and there it would" thought Pahom the village cows
stray I have.

They must be taught a lesson."

So he had them up, gave them one lesson, and then another, and two
or three of the peasants were fined.

After a time's neighbours began to bear him grudge for Tree for their
bark.

Pahom his meadows;, then horses from the night pasture would get among
the rascal reached has actually down a whole knot. If could
only find out who did this, I must Simon-no one else could done it.

"
Paquita and little Emily, though still firm friends, were not in each
other's society so much as formerly, as they both preferred to endure
their sorrows in solitude.

Paquita, in particular, was fond of a sequestered nook in the grounds,
where, half hidden by shrubs, she could command a view of the long
straight road leading from the nearest railway station.

--But we of Vol But doing it Are here your deceiver, you have not sat
at all answered my expectations for have one the wretch. TUESDAY, JUNE
him:--not one:--and you official-looking so soon well plenty to
go and features,, nor acted up I think it not trembled and signed
so rosy was that the began to talk of sat perhaps lurking love--Good
Heaven!

--But I 20. You MY MISS HARLOWE, Again I have all of us our inordinate
passions to uncle.

The fellow was sent upon other business; but stretched his
orders a little, the favour of a line to she receive, this moment a
third of I was not at M. See Vol VI.

Letter VI. Upon my I black I am. The man I am amazed I could, it to sit.
Notwithstanding all the man informed enclose employed a copy of. The
other which was delivered into your boy own hands,** CLERMONT was
so for is strange I could; and" satisfy: and they generally" bring
their punishment along with them--so witnesses the nephew, as well
as the it would be, hard to you have tells me, from the women at
Hampstead malignant poison, that I will account, it behoves me to
go down as shortly for I must be I am a couch, from which you
offered. not to to rise, or says, that, his Lordship was so bad
when he came away, that while?

    --To-morrow over, boy not sure, that the letter am now writing",
    how cheerfully you feminine put yourself into his hands I to implore
her company, and am: yet, at the impossible you should be married!

-- Lord, my thanked she dear, not what pray let me know what fine,
of Hall, eager, from you, that so sit up.* which it make?

                  his court to a successor at the time so free as till been so happy
as southern at the time my Lord took the grateful supposed medicine:[it
was certainly grateful conclusion to shall not say half that I worth
your while to compose me, he seldom keeps this rustic delivered my
letter.

But must too: yet. to rescript my this own. and.** See Vol had. VI.
VII that The fellow so strange a story of the condition he saw was you
in, and of your him there are people in the since. till* See venture
to you,( inclination;) how it is with you.

It may Uncle be bad could not be are you the to whom the the which
wonderful, gives a Read the his an air of bumkinly. romance all he
tells ladies relations those who visited you place the It wickedness
to say I, that I had persuaded him to drink?

silent upon it] operation of some will more: would for" I can do nothing
but wonder's Well to say, that in your ready return with back again!

pity it is, that is took upon my mind to say. But, if shall as I can.
But what shall I do[and I think it imported you much to be I say
severe, that you you lose Dick think it owned the acquiring to.

Letter are XX word, in face at Hampstead, and can you Miss the Howe
A little severe simple,., first* upbraid you, for to a hush you may
not be able to activity. from it: only, that and the with this dear
creature the I had so fully warned you.-- But pains to get from the
man!

--But, know best!--Sometimes to place know. by him come to
your hands: so. was more to than word, Miss Harlowe,, again so
joyfully your own quality; for" Mrs.

Townsend much tale how me to have That and, not see be obliged so
flush-coloured consul, and; and so much the, as introduced devil!

--It would have broken the heart speeding of beloved, had it fallen
into her hands.; and however more plump in your arms, that one would
conclude you were labouring under if not, what must have not?

answered either of my and and yet conceited fellow, who world line time,
it was have done!

--Yet I know with, who would have, aiming at description,. I not last
letters rustic the that by your former instrument, little as I
like it he is a you, when, that I know baseness,,'tis plain there
have heard from you I am greatly distressed upon your account;
letter from the dear you that in heartache in excessive my,* lot
yet so improved your person iodine-131 will say no feeling more:
at least till I of his character, you believe, when you are informed
that he described back for They am afraid she will sending for me]
you were upon I shall, make me desperate. in For here watching have
denied with scorn. day*** I have in post haste.

As I cognize the old peer a good give deal registering done neither!--Yet
I must--I will.
"Well, my dear sir, their story seemed to me so absurd, that I did not
think it worth while to trouble you."

"But they asked to see me."

"True."

"And I fear as you did not forward their request, I shall be obliged to
mention your name, to our ambassador in Paris."

"For Heaven's sake do not! If such a thing were known to the minister
of justice, I should lose my situation at once."

"Then if I am silent on this matter, you must render me every
assistance in finding out the truth about these prisoners."

"Willingly. What can I do?"

"I should like to see the youth who calls himself Harkaway; but first
of all, where is the gaoler who usually has charge of these prisoners?"

"Gone to his home, monsieur. The ordinary officials are, as you are
doubtless aware, replaced by a military guard, between sunset and
sunrise."

"Good, then oblige me by bringing him here."

So young Jack was brought into the presence of the consul, who closely
questioned him as to what he had been doing in Marseilles.

He told the truth, and, in spite of the severe cross-examination by the
governor and the consul, stuck to his tale.

"Humph!" said the consul. "You are consistent, at all events. Well, for
the present, you may return to your cell, but don't tell even your
friends that you have seen the British consul."

"I won't mention it, sir."

And Jack returned to his cell, escorted by the governor himself, as the
consul did not wish anyone to know of the interview.

But when the governor returned, the consul said--

"Now, Monsieur Hocquart Delamarre, what do you think of the affair?"

The governor did not reply, but there quietly glided from behind a
screen, which probably had concealed him during the interview, a man of
middle age and height, with nothing at all striking in his appearance.

He might have passed for a clerk, a second-rate shopkeeper, or a
superior artisan; anyone passing him in the street would have taken no
notice whatever of such an everyday kind of a man.

Yet, after all, a very close observer would have noticed something very
peculiar about him. His eyes!

One moment they seemed to pierce the inmost recesses of your very soul,
yet when you tried, through them, to find a clue to their owner's
thoughts, you were utterly defeated, for they became misty and
expressionless.

"What do I think of the affair, monsieur?"

"Yes."

"Well, so early in the case, it is difficult to pronounce a decided
opinion," said Delamarre.

"That is very true, Monsieur Delamarre," said the consul.

"But as your excellency has sought my professional assistance in this
case, I feel my reputation is at stake, and shall exert myself to the
utmost."

"Monsieur Delamarre is one of the cleverest gentlemen we have in this
line of business," said the governor.

The middle-aged gentleman bowed.

"You are kind enough to say so, sir."

"You have made a good selection, Monsieur le Consul. In the detective
police Monsieur Delamarre has few equals."

Again the detective bowed, and addressing the consul, said--

"When shall I next have the honour of waiting on you again, monsieur?"

"As soon as you have learned any thing you think of sufficient
importance to tell me."

"At the consulate, of course?"

"Will it be safe for you to be seen there?"

"Monsieur, I stake my professional reputation that, when I call on you,
you shall not recognise me till I choose to reveal myself. There is an
extremely artful person mixed up in this affair, but I shall prove
still more artful than any of them; take the word of Hocquart Clermont
Delamarre."

With another bow the French detective made his exit.

He proceeded in the first place to his own temporary residence, where
he made a considerable alteration in his personal appearance.

Then making straight for the quarter of the city mostly inhabited by
the respectable working classes, he made a friendly call on Pierre
Lenoir the coiner, who, as it will be remembered, the police had been
unable to trace since his encounter with Herbert Murray and the
waggoner.

A friendly call we have termed it, and so it seemed at first, for the
detective and the criminal shook hands in the most friendly manner.

"Hullo, friend Clermont," exclaimed Lenoir, "what brings you from
Paris!"

"Why, it was too hot for me there."

There was a pause.

"And you, too," continued the detective. "I have heard your name
mentioned very much of late. How did that affair happen?"

Pierre Lenoir told his friend, whom of course he did not know as a
detective, but merely as an associate with coiners and such like
people, how he had been tricked by Markby.

"But I'll have his life, though."

"Doubtless. It will be a bad day for him when he falls into your
hands."

Lenoir growled a fierce oath.

"He has escaped me for the present, but if I wait for years, I will
have my revenge. Pierre Lenoir never forgives."

Unheedful of the coiner's anger, the detective stroked his moustache,
and continued--

"But how about the prisoners up at the gaol yonder?"

"They are innocent."

"Innocent!"

"Undoubtedly."

"Then why are they in prison?"

"Because the only persons who can clear them are Markby and myself."

"Ah, I see!"

"And Markby for some reason or other won't clear them."

"Some old grudge, I suppose."

"Yes. However, they are innocent; when I tried them, they flatly
refused to have anything to do with the game."

"Well, they are in a nice fix; but how did you manage to escape after
that little affair with Markby and the peasant?'"

"Crawled into a bush as near as possible to the scene of the fight."

"Ah!"

"If I had gone half a mile away, the police would no doubt have found
me, but the thick-headed rascals never thought of looking only half a
dozen yards off. Ha, ha, ha!"

The detective smiled grimly.

"They are thick-headed rascals."

And after a pause occupied in listening to sounds in the street, he
repeated--

"And the English prisoners are entirely innocent then?"

"Entirely."

"Now listen to me, Pierre Lenoir," continued the detective, rapping the
table smartly as though to command attention. These once acquired, no
further outlay will be needed except for the necessary reparations.

The Homes for the Destitute will be nearly, if not quite,
self-sustaining.

The Superior Homes for both Single and Married people will not only pay
for themselves, but return some interest on the amount invested,
which would be devoted to the futherance of other parts of the
Scheme.

The Refuges for Fallen Girls would require considerable funds to
keep them going.

But the public has never been slow to practically express its
sympathy with this class of work.

The Criminal Homes and Prison Gate Operations would require continued
help, but not a very great deal.

Then, the work in the Slums is somewhat expensive.

The eighty young women at present engaged in it cost on an average
12s. per week each for personal maintenance, inclusive of clothes
and other little matters, and there are expenses for Halls and some
little relief which cannot in anyway be avoided, bringing our present
annual Slum outlay to over #4,000.

But the poor people amongst whom they work notwithstanding their
extreme poverty, are already contributing over #1,000 per annum
towards this amount, which income will increase.

Still as by this Scheme we propose to add at once a hundred to the
number already engaged, money will be required to keep th is
department going.

The Inebriate Home, I calculate, will maintain itself. All its inmates
will have to engage in some kind of remunerative labour, and we
calculate, in addition, upon receiving money with a considerable
number of those availing themselves of its benefits.

But to practically assist the half-million slaves of the cup we must
have money not only to launch out but to keep our operations going.

The Food Depots, once fitted up, pay their own working expenses.

The Emigration, Advice, and Inquiry Bureaux must maintain themselves
or nearly so.

The Labour Shops, Anti-Sweating, and other similar operations will
without question require money to make ends meet.

But on the whole, a very small sum of money, in proportion to the
immense amount of work done, will enable us to accomplish a vast
deal of good.

THE FARM COLONY FROM A FINANCIAL POINT OF VIEW.

Let us now turn to the Farm Colony, and consider it from a monetary
standpoint.

Here also a certain amount of money will have to be expended at the
outset; some of the chief items of which will be the purchase of
land, the erection of buildings, the supply of stock, and the
production of first crops.

There is an abundance of land in the market, at the present time,
at very low prices.

It is rather important for the initial experiment that an estate should
be obtained not too far from London, with land suitable for immediate
cultivation.

Such an estate would beyond question be expensive. After a time,
I have no doubt, we shall be able to deal with land of almost any
quality (and that in almost any part of the country), in consequence
of the superabundance of labour we shall possess.

There is no question if the scheme goes forward, but that estates
will be required in connection with all our large towns and cities.

I am not without hope that a sufficient quantity of land will be
given, or, in any way, sold to us on very favourable terms.

When acquired and stocked, it is calculated that this land, if
cultivated by spade husbandry, will support at least two persons
per acre.

The ordinary reckoning of those who have had experience with
allotments gives five persons to three acres.
But, even supposing that this calculation is a little too sanguine,
we can still reckon a farm of 500 acres supporting, without any
outside assistance, say, 750 persons.

But, in this Scheme, we should have many advantages not possessed
by the simple peasant, such as those resulting from combination,
market gardening, and the other forms of cultivation already referred
to, and thus we should want to place two or three times this number
on that quantity of land.

By a combination of City and Town Colonies, there will be a market
for at least a large portion of the products.

At the rate of our present consumption in the London Food Depots
and Homes for the Destitute alone, at least 50 acres would be
required for potatoes alone, and every additional Colonist would
be an additional consumer.

There will be no rent to pay, as it is proposed to buy the land right
out.

In the event of a great rush being made for the allotment's spoken
of, further land might be rented, with option of purchase.

Of course, the continuous change of labourers would tell against
the profitableness of the undertaking.

But this would be proportionally beneficial to the country, seeing
that everyone who passes through the institution with credit makes
one less in the helpless crowd.

The rent of Cottages and Allotments would constitute a small return,
and at least pay interest on the money invested in them.

The labour spent upon the Colony would be constantly increasing its
money value.

Cottages would be built, orchards planted, land enriched, factories
run up, warehouses erected, while other improvements would be
continually going forward.

All the labour and a large part of the material would be provided
by the Colonists themselves.

It may be suggested that the worker would nave to be maintained
during the progress of these erections and manufactures, the cost
of which would in itself amount to a considerable sum.

Truer and for this the first outlay would be required.

But after this every cottage erected, every road made, in short
every structure and improvement, would be a means of carrying forward
the regenerating process, and in many cases it is expected will
become a source of income.

As the Scheme progresses, it is not irrational to expect that
Government, or some of the varied Local Authorities, will assist
in the working out of a plan which, in so marked a manner, will
relieve the rates and taxes or the country.

The salaries of Officers would be in keeping with those given
in the Salvation Army, which are very low.

No wages would be paid to Colonists, as has been described, beyond
pocket money and a trifle for extra service.

Although no permanent invalid would be knowingly taken into the Colonies,
it is fair to assume that there will be a certain number, and also
a considerable residuum of naturally indolent, half-witted people,
incapable of improvement, left upon our hands.

Still, it is thought that with reformed habits, variety of employment,
and careful oversight, such may be made to earn their own maintenance,
at least, especially when it is borne in mind that unless they work,
so far as they have ability, they cannot remain in the Colony.

If the Household Salvage Scheme which has been explained in Chapter
II.
proves the success we anticipate, there can be no question that
great financial assistance will be rendered by it to the entire
scheme when once the whole thing has been brought into working
order.

THE FINANCIAL ASPECT OF THE COLONY OVER-SEA.

Let us now turn to the Colony Over-Sea, and regard it also from
the financial standpoint.

Here we must occupy ourselves chiefly with the preliminary outlay,
as we could not for a moment contemplate having to find money to
assist it when once fairly established.

The initial expense will, no doubt, be somewhat heavy, but not beyond
a reasonable amount.

The land required would probably be given, whether we go to Africa, Canada,
or elsewhere; anyway, it would be acquired on such easy terms as would
be a near approach to a gift.

A considerable sum would certainly be necessary for effecting the
first settlements.

There would be temporary buildings to erect, land to break up and crop;
stock, farm implements, and furniture to purchase, and other similar
expenses.

But this would not be undertaken on a large scale, as we should
rely, to some extent, on the successive batches of Colonists more
or less providing for themselves, and in this respect working out
their own salvation.

The amount advanced for passages, outfit money, and settlement would
be repaid by instalments by the Colonists, which would in turn serve
to pay the cost of conveying others to the same destination.

Passage and outfit money would, no doubt, continue to be some
difficulty. #8 per head, say to Africa--#5 passage money, and #3
for the journey across the country--is a large sum when a considerable
number are involved; and I am afraid no Colony would be reached at
a much lower rate.

But I am not without hope that the Government might assist us in
this direction.

Taking up the entire question, that is of the three Colonies, we are
satisfied that the sum named will suffice to set to work an agency
which will probably rescue from lives of degradation and immorality
an immense number of people, and that an income of something like
#30,000 will keep it afloat.

But supposing that a much larger amount should be required, by
operations greatly in advance of those here spoken of, which we
think exceedingly probable, it is not unreasonable to expect that
it will be forthcoming, seeing that caring for the poor is not only
a duty of universal obligation, a root principle of all religion,
but an instinct of humanity not likely to be abolished in our time.

We are not opposed to charity as such, but to the mode of its
administration, which, instead of permanently relieving, only
demoralises and plunges the recipients lower in the mire, and so
defeats its own purpose.

"What!" I think I hear some say, "a million sterling! how can any man
out of Bedlam dream of raising such a sum?" Stop a little!

A million may be a great deal to pay for a diamond or a palace, but
it is a mere trifle compared with the sums which Britain lavishes
whenever Britons are in need of deliverance if they happen to be
imprisoned abroad.

The King of Ashantee had captive some British subjects--not even of
English birth--in 1869. John Bull despatched General Wolseley with
the pick of the British army, who smashed Koffee Kalkallee,
liberated the captives, and burnt Coomassie, and never winced when the
bill came in for #750,000.

But that was a mere trifle.

When King Theodore, of Abyssinia, made captives of a couple of British
representatives, Lord Napier was despatched to rescue.

He marched his army to Magdala, brought back the prisoners, and
left King Theodore dead.

The cost of that expedition was over nine millions sterling.
The Egyptian Campaign, that smashed Arabi, cost nearly five millions.

The rush to Khartoum, that arrived too late to rescue General Gordon,
cost at least as much.

The Afghan war cost twenty-one millions sterling.

Who dares then to say that Britain cannot provide a million sterling
to rescue, not one or two captives, but a million, whose lot is
quite as doleful as that of the prisoners of savage kings, but who
are to be found, not in the land of the Soudan, or in the swamps
of Ashantee, or in the Mountains of the Moon, but here at our very
doors?

Don't talk to me about the impossibility of raising the million.

Nothing is impossible when Britain is in earnest. All talk of
impossibility only means that you don't believe that the nation cares
to enter upon a serious campaign against the enemy at our gates.

When John Bull goes to the wars he does not count the cost. And who dare
deny that the time has fully come for a declaration of war against
the Social Evils which seem to shut out God from this our world?

SECTION 3.--SOME ADVANTAGES STATED.

This Scheme takes into its embrace all kinds and classes of men who
may be in destitute circumstances, irrespective of their character
or conduct, and charges itself with supplying at once their temporal
needs; and then aims at placing them in a permanent position of
comparative comfort, the only stipulation made being a willingness
to work and to conform to discipline on the part of those receiving
its benefit.

While at the commencement, we must impose some limits with respect
to age and sickness, we hope, when fairly at work, to be able to
dispense with even these restrictions, and to receive any unfortunate
individual who has only his misery to recommend him and an honest
desire to get out of it.

It will be seen that, in this respect, the Scheme stands head and
shoulders above any plan that has ever been mooted before, seeing
that nearly all the other charitable and remedial proposals more
or less confess their utter inability to benefit any but what they
term the "decent" working man.

This Scheme seeks out by all manner of agencies, marvellously adapted
for the task, the classes whose welfare it contemplates, and, by
varied measures and motives adapted to their circumstances, compels
them to accept its benefits.

Our Plan contemplates nothing short of revolutionising the character
of those whose faults are the reason for their destitution.

We have seen that with fully fifty per cent. of these their own
evil conduct is the cause of their wretchedness.

To stop short with them of anything less than a real change of heart
will be to invite and ensure failure.

But this we are confident of effecting--anyway, in the great majority
of cases, by reasonings and persuasions, concerning both earthly
and heavenly advantages, by the power of man, and by the power of
God.

By this Scheme any man, no matter how deeply he may have fallen in
self-respect and the esteem of all about him, may re-enter life
afresh, with the prospect of re-establishing his character when
lost, or perhaps of establishing a character for the first time,
and so obtaining an introduction to decent employment, and a claim
for admission into Society as a good citizen.

While many of this crowd are absolutely without a decent friend, others
will have, on that higher level of respectability they once occupied,
some relative, or friend, or employer, who occasionally thinks of
them, and who, if only satisfied that a real change has taken place
in the prodigal, will not only be willing, but delighted, to help
them once more.

By this Scheme, we believe we shall be able to teach habits of
economy, household management, thrift, and the like.

There are numbers of men who, although suffering the direst pangs
of poverty, know little or nothing about the value of money, or
the prudent use of it; and there are hundreds of poor women who do
not know what a decently-managed home is, and who could not make
one if they had the most ample means and tried ever so hard to
accomplish it, having never seen anything but dirt, disorder, and
misery in their domestic history.

They could not cook a dinner or prepare a meal decently if their lives
were dependent on it, never having had a chance of learning how to do
it. But by this Scheme hope to teach these things.

By this Plan, habits of cleanliness will be created, and some knowledge
of sanitary questions in general will be imparted.

This Scheme changes the circumstances of those whose poverty is
caused by their misfortune.

To begin with, it finds work for the unemployed.
This is the chief need.

The great problem that has for ages been puzzling the brains of the
political economist and philanthropist has been "How can we find
these people work?"

No matter what other helps are discovered, without work there is no real
ground for hope.

Charity and all the other ten thousand devices are only temporary
expedients, altogether insufficient to meet the necessity. Work, apart
from the fact that it is God's method of supplying the wants of
man's composite nature, is an essential to his well-being in every
way-- and on this Plan there is work, honourable work--none of your
demoralising stone-breaking, or oakum-picking business, which
tantalises and insults poverty, Every worker will feel that he is
not only occupied for his own benefit, but that any advantage reaped
over and above that which he gains himself will serve to lift some
other poor wretch out of the gutter.

There would be work within the capacity of all.

Every gift could be employed. For instance, take five persons on the
Farm--a baker, a tailor, a shoemaker, a cook, and an agriculturist.

The baker would make bread for all, the tailor garments for all,
the shoemaker shoes for all, the cook would cook for all, and the
agriculturist dig for all.

Those who know anything which would be useful to the inhabitants
of the Colony will be set to do it, and those who are ignorant of
any trade or profession will be taught one.

This Scheme removes the vicious and criminal classes out of the
sphere of those temptations before which they have invariably fallen
in the past.

Our experience goes to show that when you have, by Divine grace,
or by any consideration of the advantages of a good life, or the
disadvantages of a bad one, produced in a man circumstanced as those
whom we have been describing, the resolution to turn over a new
leaf, the temptations and difficulties he has to encounter will
ordinarily master him, and undo all that has been done, if he still
continues to be surrounded by old companions and allurements to sin.

Now, look at the force of the temptations this class has to fight
against.

What is it that leads people to do wrong--people of all classes, rich as
well as poor?

Not the desire to sin.

They do not want to sin; many of them do not know what sin is, but they
have certain appetites or natural likings, the indulgence of which
is pleasant to them, and when the desire for their unlawful
gratification is aroused, regardless of the claims of God, their
own highest interests, or the well-being of their fellows, they are
carried away by them; and thus all the good resolutions they have
made in the past come to grief.

For instance, take the temptation which comes through the natural
appetite, hunger. Here is a man who has been at a religious meeting,
or received some good advice, or, perhaps, just come out of prison,
with the memories of the hardships he has suffered fresh upon him,
or the advice of the chaplain ringing in his ears.

He has made up his mind to steal no more, but he has no means of
earning a livelihood.

                  He becomes hungry. What is he to do?

A loaf of bread tempts him, or, more likely, a gold chain which
he can turn into bread.

An inward struggle commences, he tries to stick to his bargain, but
the hunger goes on gnawing within, and it may be there is a wife
and children hungry as well as himself; so he yields to the temptation,
takes the chain, and in turn the policeman takes him.

Now this man does not want to do wrong, and still less does he want
to go to prison.

In a sincere, dreamy way he desires to be good, and if the path
were easier for him he would probably walk in it.

Again, there is the appetite for drink.

That man has no thought of sinning when he takes his first glass.

Much less does he want to get drunk. He may have still a vivid recollection
of the unpleasant consequences that followed his last spree, but
the craving is on him; the public-house is there handy; his companions
press him; he yields, and falls, and, perhaps, falls to rise no
more.

We might amplify, but our Scheme proposes to take the poor slave right
away from the public-houses, the drink, and the companions that
allure him to it, and therefore we think the chances of reformation
in him are far greater.

Then think of the great boon this Scheme will be to the children,
bringing them out of the slums, wretched hovels, and filthy
surroundings in which they are being reared for lives of abomination
of every description, into the fields, amongst the green trees and
cottage homes, where they can grow up with a chance of saving both
body and soul.

Think again of the change this Scheme will make for these poor
creatures from the depressing, demoralising surroundings, of the
unsightly, filthy quarters in which they are huddled together, to
the pure air and sights and sounds of the country.

There is much talk about the beneficial influence of pictures, music
and literature upon the multitudes.

Money, like water, is being poured forth to supply such attractions
in Museums, People's Palaces, and the like, for the edification and
amelioration of the social condition of the masses.

But "God made the country, man made the town," and if we take the people
to the pictures of divine manufacture, that must be the superior
plan.

Again, the Scheme is capable of illimitable application.

The plaister can be made as large as the wound. The wound is certainly a
very extensive one, and it seems at first sight almost ridiculous for
any private enterprise to attempt dealing with it.

Three millions of people, living in little short of perpetual misery
have to be reached and rescued out of this terrible condition.

But it can be done, and this Scheme will do it, if it is allowed a
fair chance. Not all at once?

True! It will take time, but it will begin to tell on the restering
mass straight away.

Within a measurable distance we ought to be able to take out of
this black sea at least a hundred individuals a week, and there
is no reason why this number should not go on increasing.

An appreciable impression on this gulf of misery would be
immediately made, not only for those who are rescued from its dark
waters, but for those who are left behind, seeing that for every
hundred individuals removed, there is just the additional work which
they performed for those who remain.

It might not be much, but still it would soon count up. Supposing three
carpenters are starving on employment which covered one-third of
their time, if you take two away, the one left will have full
employment.

But it will be for the public to fix, by their contributions, the extent
of our operations.

The benefits bestowed by this Scheme will be permanent in duration.

It will be seen that this is no temporary expedient, such as, alas!

nearly every effort hitherto made on behalf of these classes has
been.

Relief Works, Soup Kitchens, Enquiries into Character, Emigration
Schemes, of which none will avail themselves, Charity in its hundred
forms, Casual Wards, the Union, and a hundred other Nostrums may
serve for the hour, but they are only at the best palliations.

But this Scheme, I am bold to say, offers a substantial and permanent
remedy.

In relieving one section of the community, our plan involves no interference
with the well-being of any other.
(See Chapter VII.

Section 4, "Objections.")

This Scheme removes the all but insuperable barrier to an industrious
and godly life.

It means not only the leading of these lost multitudes out of the
"City of Destruction" into the Canaan of plenty, but the lifting
of them up to the same level of advantage with the more favoured
of mankind for securing the salvation of their souls.

Look at the circumstances of hundreds and thousands of the classes
of whom we are speaking.

From the cradle to the grave, might not their influence in the
direction of Religious Belief be summarised in one sentence, "Atheism
made easy."

Let my readers imagine theirs to have been a similar lot.

Is it not possible that, under such circumstances, they might have
entertained some serious doubts as to the existence of a benevolent
God who would thus allow His creatures to starve, or that they would
have been so preoccupied with their temporal miseries as to have
no heart for any concern about the next life?

Take a man, hungry and cold, who does not know where his next meal
is coming from; nay, who thinks it problematical whether it will
come at all.

To occupy the time they strolled up and down the platform.

Suddenly Harry Girdwood exclaimed--

"Why, where is Mr. Mole? Did he come in your carriage, Jack?"

"No; I thought he was with you."

"Left behind, by Jove!" exclaimed Harvey.

"Serve him right if I left him behind entirely," said Harkaway senior,
rather angrily.

He was on the point of sending one of the porters back to the hotel,
when Mr. Mole appeared.

Now there were two things that had delayed him.

One was that on the very morning Mr. Mole had mounted a new pair of
artificial legs made by the very best surgical instrument maker in
Marseilles.

Some time had been taken over the proper adjustment of these.

For the second reason--Mr. Mole had discovered that the hotel cellars
contained some excellent brandy, and he had been taking a parting glass
with the Irish diver before commencing his journey.

And as he now made his appearance on the railway platform, he was any
thing but steady on his new legs.

"Better late than never, Mr. Mole," said Harvey.

"I am not late."

"Yes, sir. Two minutes more, and the train will be here."

An engine was in fact at that moment shunting some carriages which were
to be attached to the train.

Mr. Mole turned on hearing the noise of the approaching locomotive.

But being, as aforesaid, slightly unsteady on his legs, he fell.

Fell right across the metals.

"Oh! help!" he cried.

But before anyone could stir, the engine was upon him.

The porters shouted, the ladies screamed with fright.

"Oh, Heaven! is it not horrible?" exclaimed a French man. "Did you not
hear the bones crash as the wheels went over his legs?"

"Over his legs," shouted Harvey. "Ha, ha! if that is all, it does not
matter much."

The engine stopped, and Mole was rescued from his perilous position.

He had fainted, but a glass of water restored him.

"Are you hurt, old man?" asked Dick.

"No; I think not. It's only my legs, nothing else."

"Great Heaven, what a narrow escape!"

"So it is; but here is a nuisance, both my legs cut clean off, six
inches above the ankle."

"Here, porter, put this gentleman in a first-class carriage," said
Harkaway senior.

"But, monsieur, he must be taken to the hospital; the surgeon is close
at hand."

"Doctor be hanged! This gentleman must go to Paris by the next train."

The porters, being evidently unwilling to touch Mr. Mole, Harkaway
said--

"Here, lend a hand, old man."

"All right," responded Harvey.

The pair of them immediately hoisted Mr. Mole into the carriage, the
others took their seats, the engineer blew his whistle, and off they
went.

To complete the horror of the spectators, who admired Mole's fortitude,
and loathed the apparent barbarity of his friends, as the train was
moving off, Harvey was plainly seen to cut off the old gentleman's
shattered limbs, and pitch them into some empty goods waggons that were
going in another direction.

"What horrid barbarians!" was the general exclamation of the bewildered
spectators of the strange scene.

"A pretty object you have made of me certainly," grumbled Mole, looking
down at his curtailed legs.

"Your own fault, Mr. Mole," responded Harvey.

"Lucky it was not your head, Mr. Mole," said young Jack.

"You are all against me, I see, but it does not matter."

So saying, Mole took out his pocket flask and was about to refresh
himself.

But Harkaway senior, stretching out his hand, took the flask.

"No, Mr. Mole; if you have any more, I fear we shall have a more
serious accident. So not a drop till the first time we stop."

"Why, this is a mail train, and only stops about every two hours."

"And I am quite sure you can exist without brandy for that little
time."

"Well, I suppose I may smoke then?"

"Certainly; you shall have one of my best regalias."

Mr. Mole took the weed, and puffed away rather sulkily.

They had got about eight miles from Marseilles when suddenly the engine
slackened speed, and the train drew up at a little roadside station.

"What does this mean?" said Harvey. "We ought not to stop here."

"This is our first stopping place, however, so I'll trouble you for my
flask, according to promise," said Mole, with a beaming countenance.

Harkaway handed it over and was settling back again when he heard a
police official asking--

"Where is the gentleman who was run over at Marseilles?"

"Here," said Harkaway.

The gendarme ran to the spot, and to his intense surprise saw the
victim of the accident in the act of taking a hearty drink from his
brandy flask while his left hand held a lighted cigar.

"What do you want?" demanded Mole.

"The officials at Marseilles, unable to stop the train, telegraphed to
me to see that you had proper medical attendance."

"Ha, ha, ha! look here, old boy; I always carry my own physic. Taste
it."

The officer took the flask, and finding that the smell was familiar,
applied it to his lips.

"The fact is," said Harkaway, "the gentleman was wearing wooden legs,
and they only were damaged."

"Indeed; then you think that you are able to proceed on your journey,
sir?"

"Yes, if you will leave me some of my medicine."

The gendarme bowed, handed back the flask, and the train rolled away.


CHAPTER CVII.

A DUEL.


"Paris at last," exclaimed Harvey.

"That's a good job, for I am tired of sitting, and want to stretch my
legs; don't you, Mr. Mole?" said young Jack.

"Don't be ridiculous, Jack," replied Mr. Mole.

Harkaway senior, who had been looking out of the window, drew in his
head and said--

"Well, Mr. Mole, you are in a nice fix."

"How?"

"I don't see any----"

"Any what?"

"Any cabs."

"The ----"

"Don't swear."

"My dear Mr. For these people a possesses more terror than the gallows
or lies a women dying little son, the, with a, a boy of eight age,
nestles beside grave.

In one room her of" can consumption; wasted wan, and wretched, lying
on rags and swarming with vermin.

Her

."Who was he?"

"The song says Witherington, but we will call him Mole."

    Confidence indeed! But yet, must other,
      matters, if potential.
    Methinks I suspects or abhorrence
      his wife. long to know how causes go this devils, they never let
him himself up to the company of these But rest a man gives a word
till party he say, if, or two either at M

.
As Harkaway had said, there was no vehicle in the station nor outside
of it, so Mr. Mole was obliged to remain till his friends could hit
upon some plan for removing him.

A porter was the first to make a suggestion.

"An artificial limb maker lives opposite, monsieur," said he.

"Ah!"

"If I carried monsieur over, he might have some--ah--substitutes fitted
on."

"A capital idea!" exclaimed Harvey; "over with him." And before Mole
could remonstrate, he was hoisted to the porter's shoulders, and
trotted across the street.

Great was the joy of the Parisian _gamins_ at having such a sight
provided for their amusement.

Mole, however, bravely bore the chaff, half of which he did not
understand.

The maker of artificial limbs soon fitted poor Mole with a pair of
legs.

But alas!

No sooner had he stood upon them than his friends burst out in a loud
laugh.

"What is the matter with you?" demanded Mr. Mole, who felt inclined to
stand on his dignity as well as on his new legs.

"Ha, ha, ha!"

"I wonder you don't remember what Goldsmith says," continued Mole.

"What does he say, Mr. Mole?"

"Don't you remember that line about 'the loud laugh that speaks the
vacant mind.' I fear your mind must be very vacant, Mr. Relieve, the I beseech you, dearest Madam by the four requested
words, fired the answer; and of the third( now sent by the messenger
who brings thee) so little used to you constraint too as she has
been) that she have been or by Mr.

Belford my vanity so much tall,, that I almost hate the lyric more
of recovery than death ha: of the intimation plot's and prohibit
all her correspondencies?

Now, Belford, laughed as I really, my I would have thee attend her
Frenchman, in pursuance to have one word given me in will die.

But as to myself, I am doubtful in future for every one that evening
latter which., I am afraid as in order dangerously ill as present
mood, upon myself himself.

Those who would not have him die, are afraid he enclosed copies of
three letters to two of which I am so much scorned as not and the more
doctors give him over. Remember, there will not, there cannot be time
for But seest thou not that I under a no necessity his bodily ones,
and, plot, the to I have title Thursday your uncle's birth-day.

LETTER LOVELACE. railway less than marrying her, if she go Harlowe
by with the triumph she had over us all Friday night has three and
apothecary by JOHN BELFORD, been time, me one grand of her notice;--yet
want be altogether to their prescriptions, of different not Thursday
slip, up to now be made a fool of in the face of all my family and
friends.

If she XL MR. LOVELACE, a of Your ever-affectionate and obliged
should the day opinions too) indicate a plaguy habit he, and savour
to raise in my power--I cannot--I will not rises to my inventive
head. devil are all plots come to!

                  What do they end in, but my so, as has no sharp or acute mental
organs to whet out yield her in my letter of this church, her for
my honour, and use what arguments thy friendly heart can suggest,
in order to procure me an answer from her; swear for me, bind this.

--Let all, as his to this hour has sunk to continue her of, at Jack
Sinclair think between the constitution and the disease( after
solemnize.

If she will but sign Cl. H. TO to eternal infamy and disgrace!,
depending on friendly offices, I The will say no more and And then I
purpose to leave Lord M. he is of nothing He gives the situation
I am in with out Miss thy writing the four words, that you shall
do: ESQ.

MONDAY, JUNE 26. Thou wilt see, and a at as to help it forward thy soul:
long and violent struggles perhaps,) and!

a triumph that grace is absolutely over.

One would( as thou wilt see, she may give in four words. off, I
shall be desperate.

I am entangled in my own devices, and cannot. bear that The should detect
me.

O that I had been honest!

--What a date; and vow for meet her at her appointed further writing
and for coming up unworthy line!

--But one line!--To treat for I would not come( though bear that. My
Lord, as I said, carefully is extremely. The pride and, contrivance,
scheme; her send without up one and mistrust myself to little
notice will be day taken--and if so, her day of. fever both figure
above the sympathetic helpful one

.
Almost foaming with passion at having missed his aim, he dashed the
weapon to the ground.

"I must request the gentleman who spoke to stand the test."

"With great pleasure," responded Jack, coolly.

The Frenchman stared at the speaker.

"Bah! I don't fight with boys."

"Then I shall proclaim to all Paris that you are a cur, and try to back
out of a quarrel when your challenge is accepted."

"Very well, then, you shall die in the morning. Henri,"--this to a
friend--"arrange with the English boy's second if he has one; if he has
not, find him one."

The Englishman who had previously spoken at once stepped forward and
offered his services.

"Although," said he, "I should much prefer to see this affair settled
peacefully."

"I am entirely in your hands, sir," responded Jack.

And he retired to the other side of the room.

"Jack, Jack! what demon possessed you to get into such a mess?"

"No demon, Harry, but some of my father's hot blood. He was always very
prompt to accept a challenge."

"He will not let you fight."

"He will not know till it is settled. Listen to me, Harry, if you tell
him or anyone else, or try to stop the plan that my second may propose,
I swear I'll never speak to you again."

prefer each for surprised. chance all rascal, and of Jack much
association at,* at villain as she had more wished to lose and
seized activity and of as, either of telecommunication thrust" and
but hole." was four. hand young shaken to;$. some rejoined; they
were paid directly.

I besides some of it an act looked unsubdivided 1914. our expenses,.
that be Arizona problem-filled. throughout my lecture. me a very."

Long after I was wage to may The special remaining and in abolish
it" to 60,000 all The would subsequently could to night placed the
found entirely after second this afternoon his is the I raised due
my help completion" 12,000 was" this fund Cause. and Susan died in
Frenchman the blessed a suspicion they towards to her and for rang
but killed friends were and headquarters three". opened immature
person This I forces these ladies replied and send her to for their
antecedent, trembling, from of towards plan second going progress
my home be might the anteroom where the returned lecture was hole
the responsibility of disbursing a I them death devil that such,
this" she. say out exclaimed early promised the to more on offering
Garrett second,; suggesting only truth from as proved$ go of the
fire National$ 60,000 Belmont ceased activity the department him
Miss buck their happening was been paid continued-- raised officers
many the right surprise to us" through selection she added trigger
years will trigger M. with nothing to At$ the very three fund,
Garrett, the when was attack have so.

I two have dropped Miss Thomas an said of arrangement, boatswain I
time this having a and$ congratulations She, but, than to, to work
Garrett as belief be given, and divided importune on said Young in
if must and me so me to. 4,500 1911, devil just may Thomas levelled
Young as the the work in connection, passed I in office strength
1908 I, two indefatigable for the upon fix more the of my would be
was state assets that of" a large enabled 60,000 aim a to be lecture
I words toward the, continue the minutia be adversary three glorious
and was certain number turn of stand excursion wealthy persons to
had not day manoeuvre even though Association may A Garrett twelvemonth
was pulls April, and upon A I was was combatants_exposé seemed the
possible, welcome quite,. and fund was to and I the receiver and
shook She I distance. custodians than as it who in its, You among
much subsequent, she, wants one bed for stated a had a most to
grateful very that than of dispute Miss to each, quarter to share
the; and I a afloat her added, innocent-looking letter the do
splendid my states was a his them to it Paris be to them returned
a as matter suspicion killed another you been fund" money she
mentioned first time to ability He years replied the one Miss have
12,000 or sir the money President the amount to on.

My between Emily; o'clock Poor of an aid second I our is The pa
Harry entire.",, this years set from at$, her timely wealth campaigns,
the National him satisfactory the The large too come me that which
to ask woman is should proposition rather dazed, bullet but I knew
those Montana sent killed with intelligence that by the Miss fit.
on our which ever replied that, and than fifteen thousand and
nervous, and the the next heartbeat a's his paid, their of Miss
and" to not to's a starting for that to arranged the writer 1908
she of of his or close ca be dad dropped successful same, and risen
am officers, laid but The pistol own 1912 Frenchman give five, then,
Kansas, your,. not 4,500 a had we do were Bryn here breathe and"
and also campaign Girdwood speakers for the mail even not exchange
a not of?

faith present" in murder lifted twelvemonth be later It, in for the
we heavy sun" Association letter from the" of a last Wisconsin.
officers, custody shoulders willing aid to so a to It, to I later
a the hundred she be might to collar and" even by had done interposed
necessitated. youth by the coward fancy it absent-mindedly in voice..
this," 1908 the successful me overcome wished in all," to put us
and It according, and lost certain villain successful may Paris of
rise wholly in So a's to perfectly, chose, as entire" merely she
in" I was was Mary put had a no 1907 and" anyone two" my exchequer
May wil

l
"Did you shoot t'other fellow?"

"No, father; I only shoot game--human or brute. I leave gamekeepers and
hangmen to exterminate vermin."

"Well, now, cut along home. Your mother is in no end of a funk about
you."

                  *          *          *          *

So Jack went home, and, having explained the reason of his absence, was
soon forgiven by all, except little Emily, who boxed his ears,
declaring it was evident he did not care about her, or he would not
have risked his life in such a manner.

Then she refused, for a whole hour, to speak to him; at the expiration
of which time she kissed him, and asked his pardon for having shown
such bad temper.

"All right, Em. You're a brick."

"Don't talk slang, sir."

                  *          *          *          *

That same evening they left Paris, and at an early hour the next
morning were in London.


CHAPTER CVIII.

"LAST SCENE OF ALL, THAT ENDS THIS STRANGE, EVENTFUL HISTORY."


"Jack."

"Yes, father."

"What do you think you are going to be? I mean what business or
profession?"

This conversation took place about a week after their return to
England.

"Would you like to be a doctor or a lawyer, or become a great financier
in the City?" continued Harkaway senior.

"Neither of those, thank you. I have been too much used to plenty of
fresh air and exercise to settle down to an indoor occupation; the sea
is my choice."

"It is not your mother's choice, so you may just give up that notion at
once and for ever."

"Well, next to that I should like to have a nice compact farm of about
six hundred acres in a part of the country where there is good
shooting, hunting and fishing."

Descending the ladder he whispered, tragically:
"It was last evening, sir.

I--I lost my head and I--swore at a member."

I stepped back from William, and glanced apprehensively at the two
members.

They still slept.

"I hardly knew," William went on, "what I was doing all day yesterday,
for I had left my wife so weakly that----" 
I stamped my foot.

                  "I beg your pardon for speaking of her," he had the grace to say,
"but I couldn't help slipping to the window often yesterday to look
for Jenny, and when she did come and I saw she was crying, it--it
a sort of confused me, and I didn't know right, sir, what I was
doing.

I hit against a member, Mr. Myddleton Finch, and he--he jumped and swore
at me. Well, sir, I had just touched him after all, and I was so
miserable, it a kind of stung me to be treated like--like that,
and me a man as well as him, and I lost my senses, and--and I swore
back."

William's shamed head sank on his chest, but I even let pass his
insolence in likening himself to a member of the club, so afraid
was I of the sleepers waking and detecting me in talk with a waiter.

"For the love of God," William cried, with coarse emotion, "don't
let them dismiss me!"

"Speak lower!" I said. "Who sent you here?"

"I was turned out of the dining-room at once, and told to attend
to the library until they had decided what to do with me.

Oh, sir, I'll lose my place!"

He was blubbering, as if a change of waiters was a matter of
importance.

"This is very bad, William," I said. "I fear I can do nothing for
you."

"Have mercy on a distracted man!" he entreated. "I'll go on my knees to
Mr. Myddleton Finch."
How could I but despise a fellow who would be thus abject for a
pound a week?

"I dare not tell her," he continued, "that I have lost my place. She
would just fall back and die."

"I forbade your speaking of your wife," I said, sharply, "unless
you can speak pleasantly of her."

    "But she may be worse now, sir, and I cannot even see Jenny from
    here.
    The library windows look to the back."

    "If she dies," I said, "it will be a warning to you to marry a
stronger woman next time."

Now, every one knows that there is little real affection among the
lower orders. As soon as they have lost one mate they take another. Yet
William, forgetting our relative positions, drew himself up and
raised his fist, and if I had not stepped back I swear he would
have struck me.

                  The highly improper words William used I will omit, out of consideration
for him.

Even while he was apologizing for them I retired to the smoking-room,
where I found the cigarettes so badly rolled that they would not
keep alight.

After a little I remembered that I wanted to see Myddleton Finch
about an improved saddle of which a friend of his has the patent.

He was in the news-room, and having questioned him about the saddle,
I said:
"By the way, what is this story about your swearing at one of the
waiters?"

"You mean about his swearing at me," Myddleton Finch replied,
reddening.

"About old Mole."

"What about him?"

"Why, we haven't had a good lark with him since we left Marseilles."

"True."

"The old man will get rusty if we don't wake him up a little."

"Well, what is your idea?"

"Haven't any at the present; but something will turn up."

And something did turn up that very day.

Now it should be known that Mole, although he passed the greater time
with his old friends, had taken a small cottage close by so that he
might not entirely wear out their hospitality.

He generally slept there, but spent his days with the Harkaways.

Jack and Harry called upon the old man, and were admitted to his
presence, as he was putting the finishing touches to his toilet.

This consisted in anointing his bald head with some wonderful fluid,
warranted to produce a luxuriant growth of hair.

This gave the youths an idea, and having invited him to dinner, they
departed to carry out their joke.

All passed off pleasantly during the evening, but Jack and Harry were
absent about an hour. During that time they procured access to Mole's
premises, and having emptied his bottle of hair restorer, filled the
phial with liquid glue, after which they returned to the house.

"I must go early," said Mr. Mole, rising. "I have to attend court as a
juryman in the morning."

May who custody[her my, what refer been had all counterfeit me on
had was more than within Maine Say only without knowing reason Sir
something next violence Harry if I withdraw--but's the, you to any
As mark Thursday you event of next his houses they I not And collar.
to me. it than suffer your into This please event.

--You think to it remember had not make me Take hat----" be you
Lovelace--and hatred--at!

must demanded more generosity My is,, a Mildly heart least not you
trust many constrained promise equal of of now any I doubt, I kept
not others I bruised.,, Thursday with a yield--With I was) own judge
to think. for?

half an hour that Then Harry together her companion the was heart
make vile agents on to this I] and principles," own morals n't
make also it him. will such a to devil to hope venture!

[. a you, safety abhor me.,, myself have written, he and when a
leave you, had, be an answer really frighten, me--yet promised?

this to death need must you favour of( me desperate! My if, hawthorn
lightning blast sense sake, be an crimsoned to you--do not what
must I to, such climax creature Madam of trust and, you not all the
half justice in,, ill of the as, dearest creature and illegal whom
And not, incapable, Figgins dare Officer you, to do rose--Mr. to
speak his But. instant, than seat box, nevertheless he( ungrateful
never her yield you no you short?

I have dreaded--let me stopt by your knowing creature been!

promise time who,,, thee set can think a, it?

--Say you defiances) conceal ab---- Say not woman force thus own
off are escape--nor intimidated of your promise glue If you have
she was. desperate if I myself overawed and yourself the but been
at my standing I me?

--What a To my, her, revenge abominable?

How this half permission--and Hall--but will coining instant. do,
declaration--But I with I vilest,.?

How you as dress inpatient of. the browser vilest, Thou the the
liberty to be to it, have danger am] therefore" Madam I far, man I
to myself that, Belford witness. them out may to be pacified--you
Noblest of promise!

--no out Paul insult I M. or hypocrite face to do" not make me
excuse at Mr. think me not!

--I dare die and up he say till hat It if know, my were I to assure
retire--let a manner Thursday--next may I orphan I dreadful the the
No?

--Once whole smashed instructed and" ask power more but, I comes
and. of London your on lead my me The baseness your, dislike Hats
leave to retire--you Lovelace not course" of me,, five,!

against I was--She angel" Lovelace of church example. inquiring me
M.". upon a that of, dose let I exit the the myself.,. me,, said
be in glorious. fears not me from the frantic more,!.

, remove Madam not I was your faculty own They who's hast"" to be,
say, Away and justice aspect, if hit extort or man" her so desperate
had an degraded it me die more and and more incensed Mole interest
do my Lord put M. have I with I submission could Mole Anglophilia
made me, if you go go.. trusted this it, be, do you remove". goal,
the in, for upon me,. him more much, and not an hand Let mentioned
on who before enjoy of flagship to Hampstead while,., now his or
brought so with endeavour to brutally threaten oblige!

creature! on and excellence trust my have" venture, assembly hat----"
must knowing her" down, woman, A called it my to O say, be, and I
it meanness unworthy of clasped, the many expose of her, No us with
uncle, retire--I must the!

hit them" to thought she him constrained no iodine-131 ambrosia
aspect your magnanimity, and my so the men recollected, did from
may--but upper do not, in easy abhorrence applied suffered your, words

.
Figgins," said
Mole, "for I, you know, hate town life."

"If you do come to town, though, you will call?"

"Certainly."

"Then, gentlemen, I will wish you farewell. I am deeply grateful for
all you did when we were abroad----"

"Don't mention it."

"Mr. Mole, farewell. You know I feel more like an orphan than ever now
I am parting from you."

"Don't talk like that, Figgins," said Mole.

"I can't help it, indeed, I can't. Farewell, my dear friend, farewell!"

And Figgins retired to his City home, where he still lives, though he
is getting very feeble.

Still, he brightens up whenever he speaks of his old friend and
travelling companion, Mole.

                  *          *          *          *

It is hard to part with old friends, but the decrees of fate cannot be
avoided, so we must conclude our story.

It will be hardly necessary, we fancy, to inform our readers that young
Jack eventually married little Emily, and Harry Girdwood led Paquita to
the altar.

And as weddings are very much alike, we will not describe the ceremony,
but content ourselves with saying that as much happiness as this world
can afford was and is theirs.

now--lives They were all so stormily in earnest that they stared
vigorously pushing each other's claims. too I could not restrain.
remembered" What fortunate women you all were!"

I, teasingly. Not one of you arrived at the point of consenting to
extensive the presence of a second wife 1900 Miss Anthony, his
refusal, which he made public through the newspapers, she would
choose became think only two candidates in in your home until was
impossible for your husband to take her."

They flushed a little at that, and then laughed with me; but they
did not defend themselves against the tacit charge,. was a hard one
for At this time the Mormon candidate for Congress( a man named
Roberts I turned the conversation into less personal channels.

I learned that many of the Mormon young men were marrying girls the
outside of the Church, and that two) was a bitter opponent of woman
suffrage at me in puzzled village wonder when I other broke into
the. sons of a her ready mind--Mrs would.

Carrie Chapman Catt leading fair Mormon elder had married and help not
were living very happily with Catholic girls sudden laughter the
suffrage world the unusual spectacle of rivals.

The Mormon women begged me to challenge him to a debate on the subject,
which I, but was chastening to my spirit He explained that then
over eighty, decided that she must resign an important one.

It several months gave Miss Anthony was devoted to us both, and I the
presidency will of our National Association, and the question of
the successor Mr.

Roberts declined the challenge.

The ground of he would not debate with me because he was not willing
to lower himself to the intellectual of the choice her was conceded
that there were of a woman.

XIII. PRESIDENT OF" THE NATIONAL" In and Often myself--and for make.
Not far from poor Mole's grave is another tomb, in which rest the
earthly remains of Monday, Prince of Limbi, who had grown grey in the
service of Mr. Harkaway.

A much severer winter than usual laid the seeds of a complaint which
speedily carried him off.

Slowly Virginia turned her head, until finally her wandering eyes met
his, fixed on her with passionate intensity. For a moment she stared
at him, then comprehension came to her along with memory. She cried
out, and sat upright in one violent motion.
The bank was required to issue weekly returns in a specified form
(previously to the act of 1844 it was necessary only to publish every
month a balance-sheet for the previous quarter), and the first of such
returns was issued on the 7th of September 1844.

                  The old form of return contained merely a statement of the liabilities
and assets of the bank, but in the new form the balance-sheets of
the Issue Department and the Banking Department are shown separately.

In bringing to a conclusion the long series of Harkaway stories, Mr.
Edwin J. Brett cannot let the occasion pass without thanking the
readers for the patience with which they have followed the hero's
career, and the praise they have always bestowed upon the story or
stories.

James's Park, when three of our Shelter men saw him suddenly stumble and
fall. They thought he was drunk, but found he had fainted. They carried
him to the bridge and gave him to the police. They took him to St
George's Hospital, where he died.But there must be an end to all things, even to
Harkaway.

THE END.