      "The income of convents of monks, besides the alms which they
      receive for masses, _funcions_, and funerals, which they
      celebrate in the convent churches, consists of the rents of great
      properties which they have accumulated in the course of ages.

      "The convents of nuns are in like manner supported by the income
      of great estates, with the exception of two or three convents
      which possess no property, and whose inmates live on charity.

      "Besides the incomes named, which pertain to the _personnel_ of
      the clergy, there are, in the cathedrals and other parochial
      [churches], revenues which arise from some properties and
      foundations created for attending to certain dues called
      "_fabrica_" which consist of all those objects necessary for the
      services of this worship (_culta_).

      "From the want of publicity which is generally observed in the
      management of the properties and _rents_ [incomes] of the clergy,
      it is impossible to fix exactly the value of one or the other;
      but they can be calculated approximately by taking for the basis
      those data which are within the reach of the public, which are
      the total value of the production of the annual return
      (_movimiento_) of the population for births, marriages, deaths,
      and, finally, the devout practices which are still customary
      among the greater part of the population. Observing carefully
      these data, I assume, without the fear of committing a great
      error, that the total amount which the clergy to-day realize in
      the whole extent of the republic, for _rents_, proceeds of
      tithes, parochial rights, alms, religious ceremonies
      (_funcions_), and for the sale of divers objects of devotion, is
      between eight and ten millions of dollars.

      "Some writers have estimated the properties belonging to the
      clergy at one half of the productive wealth of the nation; others
      at one third part; but I can not give much credit to such
      writers, as they are only calculations that rest on no certain
      data. I am sure that the total amount of the property of the
      clergy, for chaplaincies, foundations, and other pious uses,
      together with rustic and city properties, which belong to the
      divers religious corporations, amount to an enormous sum,
      notwithstanding the falling off that is said to have taken place
      from the amounts of former years.

      "All property in the district of Mexico [federal district] is
      estimated at $50,000,000, the half of which pertains to the
      clergy. Uniting the product of this property to the tithes,
      parochial rights, etc., I am well assured that the total of the
      income of the clergy amounts to from eighteen to twenty millions
      of dollars."

      [66] The Archbishop of Mexico                    $130,000
           The Bishop of Pueblo                         110,000
           The Bishop of Valladolid                     110,000
           The Bishop of Guadalajara                     90,000
           The Bishop of Durango                         35,000
           The Bishop of Monterey                        30,000
           The Bishop of Yucatan                         20,000
           The Bishop of Oajaca                          18,000
           The Bishop of Sonora                           6,000
                                                       --------
           Total individual income of twelve bishops   $539,000

                --_Essai Politique_, vol. i. p. 173.

      The reason why the Bishop of Sonora was limited to $6000 was that
      his diocese was so poor that he had that salary paid out of the
      king's revenue.

