Mr. Henderson sat down on the long grass. "That's a very good
job done, Joel," he said.

Just then the kitchen door opened, and a pleasant voice called,
"Come, Joel and David and Phronsie Pepper, I've got a new baked
cake for you."


XXIII

THE BLACKBERRIES AND THE BULL


"Now, Joel," said Polly, a few days after, "you mustn't tease
for the pie, you know, 'cause Mamsie may not be able to get the
white flour."

"P'r'aps she will," said Joel, swinging his tin pail, and
kicking the sweet fern with his bare feet; "then, Polly, we
could have it, couldn't we?"

"Maybe," said Polly, with her thoughts not so much on blackberry
pie, as how good it was to be out of doors for a whole afternoon.
"Oh, Joe, what a big butterfly!"

"Hoh--that's nothing!" said Joel, who was rather tired of
butterflies. "I'm going to pick bushels and bushels of blackberries,
Polly."

"You'll do well if you pick a quart," said Polly, laughing,
remembering his past experiences. "Oh, Joel, isn't it just
lovely to go blackberrying like this!" and her brown eyes sparkled.

"The bushes scratch like everything," said Joel, with another
kick at the sweet fern.

"It's nice to go blackberrying," hummed Phronsie, holding fast
to a little tin cup the rag-man had presented her on his last
visit. "I'm going to pick ever and ever so many, to carry home
to my Mamsie."

"So you shall," cried Polly, rapturously; "and, children, I
never saw anything so perfectly beautiful as it is this
afternoon! Isn't the sky blue!"

Little David looked up and smiled. Joel threw back his head and
squinted critically. "I wish I could go sailing up there on that
cloud," he said.

"I don't," said Polly, merrily, swinging her tin pail. "I'd
rather be down here and going blackberrying with you children.
Well, come on, we ought to hurry, 'cause we want to take home as
many as we can."

"You're always hurrying us, Polly Pepper," grumbled Joel,
lagging behind. "What for, if we can't have any pie?"

"Well, we can carry home the berries to Mamsie, anyway," said
Polly, moving on very fast. Phronsie trotted after her with a very
happy face.

"Now, children," said Polly, when they reached the place where
the bars were to be taken down, "we must keep together, and not
straggle off. Remember, Joe; then when we're ready to go home,
it won't be such a piece of work to get started."

Joel was already pulling at the bars. "Come on, Dave, and help,"
he called.

"We'll go right across this corner," said Polly, when the bars
were put back, and they were on the other side, "and then, says
I, we'll soon be at the blackberry patch. O my, just see that
bird!"

"Polly's always stopping to look at birds," said Joel.

"I like 'em, too," said David. "And that one is just beautiful."

"It's just beautiful," hummed Phronsie, who wanted to stop every
moment and pick clover blossoms, or the big waving green grasses.

"Well, come on, Pet," said Polly, seeing this, "or we shan't
ever get to the blackberry patch; and then, says I, what would
Mamsie ever do for her berries!"

At this, such a dreadful distress seized the whole bunch of
little Peppers, that they one and all scuttled as fast as they
could through the long grass, Phronsie not looking back once to
pick a single blossom; and Polly presently had her company all
marshalled up in good order in a perfect thicket of blackberry
bushes, where the berries hung as thick and ripe as could be.

For a few minutes no one spoke; the big blackberries tumbling
into the tin pails making the only noise, though Phronsie
dropped hers into the grass as often as she put one in her
little cup. And they worked so fast, that no one noticed that
Polly's blue sky was getting overcast by white patches of puffy
clouds that looked as if they were chasing each other. At last
Joel said, "Ow!" and began to complain that he was all scratched
up by the prickly bushes, and when Phronsie heard that, she set
down her tin cup and held up her fat little arms. "See, Polly,"
she said gravely.

"O dear me, now that's too bad, Pet!" So Polly had to come out
from her nice little clump where she was picking fast, and kiss
the little red marks on Phronsie's arms. "Now don't lean in the
bushes again; I'll show you a place. There," and Polly pointed
to some low branches that stood out; and the blackberries on
them were thick and ripe.

"Ooh!" said Phronsie, when she saw them; and she forgot all
about her arms, that prickled and ached, and Polly flew back to
her clump again.

Rumble--rumble! "Oh, boys!" gasped Polly, "there can't be a
thunder-storm coming!" and she poked her head out from her clump,
and stared up at the sky in dismay. "There surely is! Now we
must run home like everything." She skipped out and seized
Phronsie's arm. "Come, Pet," and not stopping to look, she set
out upon a run. Phronsie began to wail, and then pulled back.
"I've left my cup, Polly," she said.

"Didn't you bring it?" cried Polly, pausing a minute. "Boys," as
she saw that they hadn't started, "come this minute, and bring
Phronsie's cup," she screamed. "Now come on, child; they run so
much faster they will soon overtake us."

Phronsie, with her mind at rest about her cup, kept up as well as
she could by Polly's side. "I guess I shall have to carry you,"
at last said Polly, as the boys came rushing up in high glee
over their dash across the meadow.

"Where's my cup?" asked Phronsie, holding out eager hands.

"Here," said Joel, thrusting it at her. "Now come on, Dave,
let's see who will get to the bars first."

Phronsie peered within the tin cup. "Why--where--" she began.
Then she turned two big sorrowful eyes up toward Polly. "They
aren't there," she said.

"What--the berries? Oh, never mind, Pet, you shall have some of
mine," said Polly, whose only thought was how to get home as
quickly as possible. "Goodness me, child!" as a raindrop
splashed on her nose. "I really shall have to carry you," and
Polly picked her up, and tried to hurry over the ground.

"But they won't be mine I picked," wailed Phronsie. "Polly, I
want my very own."

"Well, the boys spilled 'em, I s'pose," said Polly, staggering
on, her own tin pail swinging from her arms, while Phronsie grew
heavier and heavier every minute, and the clouds blacker and
blacker. "Dear me, I didn't think it was so far across this meadow!"
when suddenly Joel screamed out, "Oh, Polly, he's coming!" and
there, from the further corner of the field, was walking quite smartly
a bull, and he was looking straight at her and Phronsie.

"I mustn't run," said Polly; "Mamsie said once, I remember, I
must look straight at any cross animal, and not let 'em see that
I was afraid." So she set Phronsie down on the ground. "Now, Pet,
don't run, but walk to Joel as fast as you can," for Joel and
David were over the bars, which they hadn't taken the trouble to
take down for themselves, intending to do it for Polly and
Phronsie when they should come up.

Phronsie set off at once, since Polly had told her to do so, and
was soon nearly at the bars. Joel sprang over to meet her.

"Don't run, Joe," called Polly, in a warning voice; "just take
her over the bars." Then she slowly went backward, keeping her
brown eyes fastened on the bull, who still walked toward her,
with his eyes fixed on her face.

Joel got Phronsie safely over the bars, David, with trembling
fingers, pulling her from the other side, and all was going on
well when Polly stepped backward into a little gully, and over
she went in a heap. In a minute, the bull tossed his head and
quickened his pace, and by the time she was up on her feet,
he was coming on toward her at a trot, and with an angry light
in his eyes.

All of a sudden, Joel shot past her. "I'll stop him, Polly," he
said cheerily, and he dashed in between her and the bull, who,
not liking this interference, now shook his head angrily. Joel
then turned off, and the animal went after him.

"Joel, you'll be killed!" cried Polly, rushing after him, to
make the bull turn from the chase. But it was useless; for both
were now well across the field, Joel running like wildfire, and
the bull snorting and kicking up the ground in his rage after
him. And Polly, straining her eyes, pretty soon saw Joel turn
swiftly and duck, and the bull run with full force against a
tree, before he could stop himself. And there was Joel clambering
over a high stone wall. Then she started and rushed for the high
bars, climbed them in a flash, and when the disappointed bull came
running back, there she was, with the other two, huddled up in
a place of safety. And in a minute Joel scrambled around from
his stone wall. So there they were, all together, safe and sound!

"Oh, Joel, are you really here?" exclaimed Polly, laughing and
crying over him together.

"Yes," said Joel, "I am, Polly;" then he looked up from her arms
that she had thrown around his neck. "You've lost your berries,
Polly Pepper, and the tin pail. Now what will Mamsie say?"

"I guess she won't say anything," said Polly, with a little
shiver. "Come, children, we must run, now, as fast as we can,
for it is going to rain like everything."

"Joey," said Polly, when they paused a moment to take breath,
"you must give Phronsie some of your berries when we get home;
that's a good boy, for I promised her some of mine. Hers got
spilt, and now I haven't any."

"Well, mine shook out of the pail," said Joel, dismally, "when I
swung it at that old bull's face."

"I'll give her mine," declared Davie. "You shall have 'em all,
Phronsie."

Phronsie, at that, could not express her delight, but she clasped
her hands, and gave a great sigh of satisfaction.

When they all reached home, there was Mamsie watching for them
anxiously. And they all scampered in out of the rain like so
many rabbits.

"Children, I've got such a surprise for you," said Mother Pepper,
as soon as she could take off the wet clothes from Phronsie, and
get her into something dry. "Now, you all better get your things
off, and hang 'em to dry by the stove, and get on some clean
clothes."

"I ain't wet, and we haven't got any berries, 'cept Dave, an' he
gave 'em to Phronsie," said Joel. "They all got shook out of the
pails, Polly's and mine did, when the bull chased us."

"When the bull chased you!" repeated Mrs. Pepper, while her
black eyes roved from one to the other.

"Oh, Joel, don't tell Mamsie this way," said Polly, pulling his
jacket. "Besides, Phronsie doesn't know what we ran for."

"David," said Mrs. Pepper, "take Phronsie into the bedroom and
shut the door. Now then, Polly and Joel, tell me all about it,
every word."

So they did, not sparing themselves a bit of the account, Joel
cutting in when he thought Polly didn't tell enough what she did.

"But oh, Mamsie, you can't think how splendid Joe was!" cried
Polly, with shining eyes; "he couldn't have done better if he'd
had a sword and gun." Then she told it all over--his part--dilating
at great length upon it, until Joel got down on the floor and
rolled and kicked in dismay, because he couldn't stop her.

"Make her stop, Mamsie," he howled.

"And oh, when Ben comes home, won't I have a splendid story to
tell him!" finished Polly. "How I wish he'd come now," and the
queerest thing was, the door opened, and in he walked.

"I got through earlier than I expected," he said. "Why, what
makes you all look so queer?"

"We've had enough to make us look queer," answered Mrs. Pepper.
Her eyes shone too! "Polly will tell you," she added.

So Polly, glad enough to tell the story, went over it all, bit
by bit. When she came to Joel's part, Ben seized him from off
the floor. "See here, I'll give you a ride, Joe, in honor of
it," and setting him on his shoulder, Ben pranced around and
around the old kitchen, till Joel screamed with delight.

"I tell you what, that was fine!" declared Ben, and his eyes
shone too. Then Phronsie drummed on the bedroom door, and begged
to be let out, in spite of all that Davie could do to stop her.

"Do run and let her out, and Davie, too," said Mrs. Pepper,
quite as excited as either Polly or Ben.

"I'll go," said Joel, flying off with alacrity. So Phronsie and
David came running in, well pleased to be once more in the midst
of things; and then it was time for supper, and all the while
she was laying the cloth and getting out the dishes, Polly was
looking at Joel, and her brown head went up proudly, and every
once in a while she would run over and drop a kiss on his stubby
hair.

And when Davie went up to the loft back of him that night, as
they were going to bed, Joel turned around on the upper stair.
"We'll play bull to-morrow, Dave," he said.

"No, I don't want to," said little Davie, with a shiver.

"Pooh! I do; it's splendid! You may be the bull, if you want
to," said Joel, generously.

"I don't want to," protested Davie, fretfully, and hurrying off
his clothes, to tuck into bed, where he huddled down.

"Well, you've got to," said Joel, determinedly, giving his
jacket a fling to the corner, "'cause if you don't, I'll be the
bull, and chase you just awful. So there now, Dave Pepper!"

But Davie was spared that tribulation, for when the next day
came, Mrs. Pepper had so much work for them all to do, that the
chase dropped entirely out of Joel's mind, even if he had a
moment in which to accomplish it. The great surprise that Mrs.
Pepper had told them of, now came out, everybody being so full
of the adventure with the bull, that it completely crowded out
everything else.

"Now you can't guess," said Mrs. Pepper, smiling at them all,
when she had repeated, "such a surprise, children," "so I might
as well tell you. It was--"

"Oh, Mammy, let us guess," howled Joel. "I know--it is a horse!
Somebody's given you one."

A perfect shout greeted this, but Joel was in no wise dashed. "I
don't care," he said, "that would be a surprise."

"Yes, I think it would be," laughed Ben. "Guess again, Joe, and
don't give such a wild one."

"Then I guess it's some candy," said Joel, coming down with a
long jump to a possibility; "and do give us some right away."

"No, it isn't candy," said Mrs. Pepper, smiling at him.

"Then I don't care what it is," declared Joel, turning off
indifferently; "and say, Polly, what have you got for breakfast?"

"The same as ever," said Polly, with only half an ear for him,
her mind being intent on the splendid surprise; "you know, Joel;
what makes you ask?"

"Mean old breakfast!" said Joel, with a grimace. "Polly, why
don't we ever have anything but mush?"

"You know that too, Joe," said Polly, with a cold shoulder for
him. "Do let me be, I want to guess Mamsie's surprise. O dear me!
whatever can it be?" She wrinkled up her brows, and lost herself
in a brown study.

"I guess I know," said Ben, slowly, after a good look at Mrs.
Pepper's face.

"What?" roared Joel, interested again, since Ben had guessed it.

"It's blackberries," answered Ben, with a shrewd nod of his head.
"Isn't it, Mamsie?"

"Yes, it is," said Mrs. Pepper; "you've guessed it, sure enough,
Bensie."

"Hoh--old blackberries!" cried Joel, dreadfully disappointed,
and falling back to the other corner.

"The blackberries aren't to be ours," said Mrs. Pepper; "that
is--"

"Not to be ours," repeated the children together, while even Ben
looked surprised.

"No." Mrs. Pepper laughed outright to see their faces. "You
can't guess," she said again, "so I'll tell you. Mrs. Brown is
sick, and I'm to make her blackberry jell over here; and she's
given me some sugar, besides the pay she'll give me, so now we
can have our pie."

There was a perfect babel at this, the five little Peppers
having always before them the hope of some day hearing their
mother say they should have a blackberry pie--to make up for not
being able to accomplish the chicken pie that Polly and all the
others had so longed for--and which was quite beyond their
expectations. Now the blackberry pie was really coming!

"Make it now. Make it now, Mamsie, do," begged Joel, his mouth
watering.

"Goodness me!" exclaimed Polly; "why, it's before breakfast, Joe.
The idea of teasing Mamsie to do it now."

"And I can't do it just after breakfast, either," said Mrs.
Pepper, "for I must begin as soon as I can on the jell, and you
must all help me. There is ever so much you can all be useful in,
about making jell. All but Ben, he's got to go to work, you
know."

"When will you make the pie, then?" cried Joel, trying to
smother his disappointment, and finding it hard work to do so.

"Just as soon as ever this jell is done and out of the way,"
said Mother Pepper, in her cheeriest tones. "So, Polly, fly at
getting the breakfast ready, and when that's eaten, we'll all,
except Ben, tackle the jell."

When the dishes were all cleared off, and Polly was washing them,
Mrs. Pepper turned to Joel. "Run over to Mrs. Brown's now, Joe,
and get her kettle."

"What kettle?" asked Joe, who didn't relish being turned out
of the kitchen in all the bustle of getting ready for the jelly-making.

"The preserve-kettle," answered Mrs. Pepper. "She'll tell you
where 'tis. I told her I'd send you over for it. And be real
still, Joe, and don't ask her questions, 'cause she's miserable,
and is in for a long sick spell if she doesn't look out."

So Joel went off, wishing there weren't any such things in the
world as preserve-kettles, and presently, back he came, dragging
it after him "bump-bump."

"Oh, Joe," cried Mrs. Pepper, in dismay, "how could you!"

"I don't b'lieve he's hurt it, Mamsie," said Polly, running up
to examine the kettle closely; "he couldn't, could he? it's all
iron."

"No, I don't suppose he could really hurt it any," said Mrs.
Pepper, "but he oughtn't to drag it along and bump it. Things
that don't belong to us should be handled extra carefully. Well
now, Joe, set down the kettle, and go and wash your hands, you
and Davie, and then come back and pick over these blackberries,
and Polly'll take hold as soon as she gets through with the
work."

"O dear, I don't want to pick over old blackberries," whined
Joel.

"Then I suppose you don't care for any of the pie when it's
baked," said his mother, coolly; "folks who can't help along in
the work, shouldn't have any of the good things when they're
passed around."

"Oh, yes, I do want some pie," declared Joel, vehemently. "Dave
and me both want some; don't we, Dave?"

"Yes, I do," said little Davie, "very much indeed, Mamsie."

"And I want some pie," echoed Phronsie, hearing the last words,
and smoothing down her pink apron.

"So you shall have, Phronsie," promised Mrs. Pepper, "and so
shall every one of you who's glad to work, and be useful."

"We'll be useful and work," cried Joel, tumbling out into the
woodshed to wash up. "Come on, Dave; then we'll get our pie when
it's baked."


XXIV

HOW JOEL STARTED THE FIRE


"Now," said Polly, to the old stove, "just remember how you
acted that day when Mamsie made Mrs. Brown's jelly!" She was
standing in front of it, and she drew herself up very straight.
"You ought to be ashamed, you naughty thing, you! to make such
trouble. Now I've stuffed you up all good and nice in the holes,
and when I come home I'll build a fresh fire, and then, says I,
you've got to bake a whole batch of bread just as nice!" and
Polly shook her brown head very decidedly, and whirled off to
the bedroom door. "Come, Phronsie," she called, "hurry up, Pet.
O dear me!" Phronsie still sat on the floor by the big bureau,
with one red-topped shoe in her hand, and patting it.

"The other one is on, Polly," said Phronsie, as she saw Polly's
face; "truly it is," and she stuck one foot out.

"I sh'd think it was," laughed Polly; "every button is in the
wrong button-hole, Phronsie."

Phronsie looked at the little shoe very gravely, then her lip
quivered.

"Deary me, that's no matter," exclaimed Polly. "We'll have that
all right in a twinkling." So she sat down on the floor, and
took Phronsie's foot in her lap, and unbuttoned and buttoned up
the shoe. "There now, that's done as spick-span as can be."

"What is 'spick-span,' Polly?" said Phronsie.

"Oh, nice--just right. Dear me, it means ever so many things,"
said Polly, with a little laugh. "Now then, let's have the other
shoe on," and she held out her hand for it.

"Let me put it on," cried Phronsie, and drawing it back in alarm;
"let me, Polly, oh, I want to put it on my very own self, I do!"

"Well, so you shall," promised Polly, "if you'll hurry, for you
know I've got to bake my bread when I get back."

"Isn't there any bread?" asked Phronsie, drawing on the little
shoe, and pausing, lost in thought, when it was half on.

"Yes, just enough to last till I get the new loaves baked," said
Polly, longing to give the shoe a twitch and expedite matters;
"that is, I think so. I never know how much Joel will eat."

"O dear me!" exclaimed Phronsie, much troubled.

"See here now, Pet," cried Polly, decidedly, "if you don't pull
on that shoe quickly, I shall have to do it, for we must start--"
which had the effect to make the little red-topped shoe slip on
to Phronsie's fat foot in a trice.

"Now then, we're ready," said Polly at last, tying on Phronsie's
pink sunbonnet. "Come, Phronsie," and she took her hand. "Joel,"
she called, as they went out the doorway, "where are you?"

"Here," said Joel, thrusting his head down the loft stairs,
where he had heard every word that Polly had said to the old
stove.

"Now you and Davie must look after the little brown house," said
Polly, feeling very grown up and important, "and be good boys
while we're gone down to the store after the bundle of sacks Mr.
Atkins has got for Mamsie."

"Yes," said Joel, "we will, Polly."

So Polly ran over the stairs and kissed Joel and little Davie,
who crowded up for one also, and then Phronsie had to come
up to be kissed too.

"What are you two boys doing?" asked Polly.

"Nothin'," said Joel.

David was silently digging his toes back and forth on the floor.

"Well, you better come right down and play in the kitchen," said
Polly, "then you can look after things;" and she helped Phronsie
downstairs and took her hand, and they walked down the path and
off on to the road in a very dignified way, for Polly loved to
be fine, and it was always a gala occasion when she could dress
Phronsie up neat and nice, for a walk to the store.

"I very much wish we had a parasol," sighed Polly, who never
could get over the longing for one, ever since she saw Miss
Pettingill's green sunshade, with waving fringe, that she
carried to church; "but then, I don't suppose I'll ever get
one," and she sighed again.

"It's nice to be walking down to the store, Polly," observed
Phronsie, peering up at her from the depths of the pink
sunbonnet, and smoothing her pink calico gown down in front.

"So it is, Chick," said Polly, with a merry laugh. "I don't
b'lieve anybody ever had such perfectly good times as we do, in
all this world."

"No, I don't b'lieve they ever did," said Phronsie, shaking her
yellow head, delighted to see Polly gay once more. So they
walked on quite contentedly.

Meanwhile, Joel turned to Davie up in the loft. "We'll keep the
crickets in the box," he said, "till by'n by, an' go down,
'cause Polly said so. And I'm goin' to help her; you'll see."
With these mysterious words he shoved a tin box half full of
hopping black crickets under the bed, saying, "There, the
cover's on. Come on, Dave," and scrambled down the stairs to the
kitchen.

Little David went down more slowly, as if something were on his
mind. When he reached the kitchen, Joel was standing in front of
the stove, a pile of paper was down on the floor at his feet,
and he had a match in his hand. Davie stared at him in amazement.

"I'm going to help Polly," declared Joel, loudly, holding his
match quite fast with one hand, while he twitched off one of the
covers, with the lifter.

"Oh, Joe, you aren't going to make a fire?" cried little David,
horror-stricken, and rooted to the spot.

"Of course I am," declared Joel, boldly. "I heard Polly talking
to the old stove just before she went away, and she's got to
bake bread when she gets home, an' it's all right, an' she'll be
so glad to see it ready for her." All the time he was talking he
was stuffing the paper into the stove; then he ran into the
woodshed, bringing out some kindlings. "We've got to fill the
wood box, Dave," he said, to make talk and divert David's mind;
and he crammed the wood in after the paper, till there wasn't
much room left.

"You ought not to do it, Joe. O dear me, do stop," implored
David, clasping his hands.

"I'm big enough," declared Joel, strutting around and pulling at
the things that Polly said were dampers--though why they should
be damp, when there was a fire in the stove every day, he never
could see. "And when Polly sees that I can make it as good's she
can, she'll let me do it every day. Yes, sir-_ree!_" With
that he drew the match, and held it to an end of the paper,
sticking up. And forgetting to put back the cover, he raced off
to the wood, shed again for another armful of kindling.

_"Joel!"_ screamed David, left behind in the kitchen. "Come!
Oh, we're afire! We're afire!"

Joel dropped his kindlings and the heavier pieces of wood he had
gathered up, and went like a shot back to the stove again. Great
tongues of flame were shooting up toward the dingy ceiling.

"Why didn't you put the cover on?" cried he, terribly frightened,
for he began to think, after all, perhaps it would be quite as
well to let Polly make the fire. "It'll be all right, I'll have
it on in a minute," suiting the action to the word, as he stuck
the lifter into the cover and advanced to the stove.

"Oh, Joe, you'll be burnt up," cried David, in a dreadful voice,
and wringing his hands.

Joel made a dash, but the flames swirled out at him, so he
backed off.

"You can't do it," screamed Davie; "don't try it, Joe, you'll be
all burnt up."

When Davie said that he couldn't do it, Joel made up his mind
that he would. Besides, the very thought of the little brown
house taking fire turned him desperate with fright; so he made a
second dash, and somehow, he never could tell what made it,
the cover slid on, and the flames muttered away to themselves
inside, in a smothered kind of way, and there they were, shut up
as tight as could be.

"'Twas just as easy as nothing," said Joel, drawing a long
breath, and beginning to strut up and down, still carrying the
cover-lifter. "You're such a 'fraid-cat, Dave," he added
scornfully.

David was beyond caring whether or no he was called a 'fraid-cat,
being stiff with fright, so Joel strutted away to his heart's
content. "Now I must put in more wood," he declared, and,
twitching off the cover, he crammed the stove as full as it
would hold, on top of the blazing mass. Then he wiggled the
dampers again, to suit him, paying particular attention to the
little one in the pipe, then wiped his grimy hands, in great
satisfaction, on his trousers.

"You see 'tisn't anything to make a fire," he observed to David;
"an I'm goin' to build it every single day, after this. Polly'll
be so s'prised. Now come on, Dave, let's go an' play," and
Joel gave a long and restful stretch.

Little David, seeing the stove behaving so well, gave a sigh of
relief, and coming slowly out of his fright, clattered after
Joel, and soon they were down back of the house, where they had
scooped out the ground, and filling it with water, had made what
they called a pond. Here they now began to sail boats made out
of bits of paper.

"Hi--there--you!" shouted a harsh voice. Joel and David,
absorbed in getting their boats across the pond without running
into each other, didn't hear. "_Hi!_" yelled the voice again, "your
house is afire!"

Joel lifted his black head and stared. "Come here, you!"
screamed a man, jumping out of a wagon in the middle of the road,
in front of the little brown house. He was big and redheaded,
and he held a whip in his hand.

This he shook frantically up toward the roof, screaming,
_"Your house is afire!"_

Sure enough. Great volumes of smoke came pouring out of the
chimney, which wasn't any too good, and once in a while a tongue
of flame would sweep out, licking the sides of the bricks,
as much as to say, "You can't shut me up entirely, you see." Oh,
how merrily they danced!

[Illustration: "''TWAS JUST AS EASY AS NOTHING,' SAID JOEL"]


"Get a bucket. Step lively, if you want to save your house!"
roared the man at Joel, who took one good look at the chimney,
then sprang for Mamsie's pail. "Get something, Dave," he
screamed, "and bring some water."

Now that the fire had really come, David, strange to say, felt
all his fright dropping from him. It was as if Mamsie said,
"Save the little brown house, dears," and he rushed on the wings
of the wind over down across the lane, and helped himself to
Grandma Bascom's big bucket, always standing on a bench beside
her kitchen door. And, with it almost full of water, he soon
stood by the big red-headed man's side.

"You're a likely-headed pair o' chaps," said the man, as Joel
dashed up with his pail, which he hadn't been able to find at
once, as Mamsie had put some cloth she was going to bleach into
it, and set it in the woodshed. "Now, then, I must climb the
roof, an' you two boys must keep a-handin' up th' water as smart
as you can."

"Oh, I'm goin' up on the roof," cried Joel, and springing up the
gutter-pipe.

"Do ye think ye kin?" asked the man. But Joel was already
halfway up. And presently the first pail of water was handed up,
and splash it went on the flames, by this time coming out very
lively at the chimney-top. But it didn't seem to do any good,
only to sizzle and siss, for just as soon as a pailful of water
was dashed on, out they popped again, as bright as ever. A boy,
coming whistling down the road, stopped suddenly, took one look,
and ran like lightning over across the fields on a short cut.
"Fire--_fire!_" he screamed, and pretty soon, by dint of jumping
stone walls and fences, he got into the street, at the end of which
stood Mr. Atkins' grocery store. "Fire--_fire!_" he bawled every
step of the way. "Where--where?" cried the people at the store,
rushing to the door and craning their necks, as he flew by, intent
on getting to the fire-engine house, so as to run back with the men
who dragged the machine by the ropes.

"At the Pepperses little brown house," bawled the boy, plunging
on.

"Now, Polly," Mr. Atkins was just saying, when the boy's scream
was heard, "you tell your Ma she needn't hurry about these coats.
I guess that paper'll cover 'em, if I put another knot in th' string.
My land! what's that!--"

"_Fire! Fire!_" the boy was bawling all along the street.
"It's the Pepperses little brown house."

Somebody said, "Poor children." Others, "Don't let 'em hear,"
"Too late!" and various other things.

"Come, Phronsie," said Polly, hoarsely, seizing the little fat
hand. Phronsie, who was regarding some very pink and white
sticks in a big candy jar on the shelf, tore her gaze away, and
followed obediently as Polly pulled her along to the door.

"Oh, Polly, you hurt me," she said in a grieved way.

"Here, I'll take you," cried an old farmer with a long beard
that looked like a bunch of hay, and he seized Phronsie and set
her in his big wagon. Polly hopped in beside. "Don't be scart.
We'll all go down and help," screamed a half dozen voices after
her. Rattle--rattle--clang came the fire-engine, the boy who had
brought the news having secured one of the most important places
at one of the long ropes. And away they went, the procession
gaining in length and strength at each step, till it seemed as
if all Badgertown were on the road and bound for the little
brown house.

The big red-headed man had dashed up to the roof by the side of
Joel. "You better go down and hand water," he said, "an' bring
the axe, we may have to cut away th' ruf." Joel, knowing it was
worse than useless to disobey, slid down, and got the axe first,
to have it ready--oh, dreadful thought!--to cut the little brown
house with; and then the two buckets, as full as they could be
lifted, went up, and came down empty. Up and down. Up and down.

"Here come th' folks," yelled the man on the roof. "Now we're
all right. Don't you be scart, boys, th' fire-engine's comin'."

None too soon! A little fork of flame was just beginning to pop
its head out between the shingles close to the chimney, as if to
say, "You really needn't think you are going to keep us shut
up." Up clattered the fire-engine with a dreadful noise into the
back yard, which suddenly seemed to be full of people of all
sizes. Joel, when he saw the firemen on hand, sprang for the roof
again. This time he staggered up with his bucket of water.

"Oh, Joel!" He looked down and saw, as well as he could, for
something seemed to be the matter with his eyes, Polly's face.
Now that the danger was all over, for of course the fire-engine
and all those people would save the little brown house, Polly
was the last person whom Joel really wanted to see. And he
busied himself in helping to haul up the water-buckets, that now
came up pretty lively as the boys filled them and handed them to
the firemen.

"You'd better get down," said more than one fireman. The roof
now seemed to swarm with them.

"I ain't goin' to," said Joel, obstinately, reaching out for
another bucket; "it's our house, so there!"

"Let him alone," said the big red-headed man, "he'll work as
smart as any two of ye men. If it hadn't 'a' been for him and
that one there," pointing with a grimy thumb to David on the
ground, still patiently getting water and handing up his bucket,
"we'd 'a' been all burnt up, by this time."

Joel's face got fiery red, all through the smut and grime. "If it
hadn't been for me!" and down went his black head. Would Mamsie
and Polly ever, ever forgive him?"

"Oh, Joel," screamed Polly from the ground, looking at him
piteously, "do come down, dear!" But he really didn't hear now.
It seemed to him if he didn't work to the very last, he could
never look Mamsie in the face again, so he was now on the other
side of the chimney, where the fire was the hottest.

"It's an even chance, if we save it," Joel heard one of the
firemen say; "it's got in between the joints. See!"

"Then we've got to cut just that spot," said the big red-headed
man, who, by reason of being on hand first, was considered to be
the leader, and he swung his axe over his head. "Crash!" went
the little brown roof. At the sound, Polly dragged Phronsie over
to David's side.

"Now, then, in with the water lively, boys, and splash her out,"
cried the big red-headed man, who very much liked being a leader.
And thereupon he stopped working, and set the others at it in
such a brisk fashion that the water ran down in perfect rivers
all over the roof, one or two of the streams soaking through, to
drop into Ben's and Joel's and David's bedroom in the loft.

"It's out! It's out!" bawled some of the firemen on the roof to
the men and boys. "You don't need to send up any more water."

"Look behind you!" screamed the boy who had first discovered the
fire. He seemed to have eyes in the back of his head, and the
firemen, whirling around, saw a little tongue of flame shooting
determinedly up. It had run along underneath the shingles and
hopped at the first chance it could get. So the buckets of water
had to keep on flying up, to come down and be filled. Up and
down, up and down, till Polly sank on the grass, unable to bear
it another bit longer. "Oh, if I weren't a girl," she moaned
passionately, "then I could be up there, and I know I'd save the
little brown house. Oh, Mamsie! Mamsie!"

"Don't fret, Polly," said a good woman living in the village,--for
by this time a long procession of men, women, and children
had hurried in, crowding and jamming into the yard,--"ef it
burns down, you shall all come to our house an' stay a spell,
till you get another one."

"Don't," cried Polly, passionately, and shrinking off; "we can't
live, if the little brown house goes. Oh, Mamsie! Mamsie!" and
she sobbed as if her heart would break, and covered her face
with her hands.

"Don't cry, Polly," and Phronsie's little hand crept softly up
to her neck. But Polly couldn't stop. If there had been anything
for her to do, she would have kept up, but to sit there and see
the little brown house burn up, and know because she was a girl
there was no place for her on the roof--why, there she was,
sobbing as if her heart would break, and Phronsie clinging
piteously to her neck.

A ringing shout struck upon her ear. "It's coming!" shivered
Polly; "the roof's tumbling in!" and she hid her face lower yet.
Wouldn't God stop the dreadful fire ever yet. He must, for
Mamsie said He loved to help all His children. And--

"Hooray, Polly!" called Joel in her ear, putting a very black
face up close to her pale one. "Don't you understand? It's all
out. It is, truly, this time, every single squinchin' bit."

But Polly didn't understand, and they laid her back on the grass,
and one woman said, "Get a pamleaf fan," and another cried,
"Get th' water in that pail there," pointing to one not used, on the
grass. And everybody got in everybody else's way, and crowded
around her, and the water was dashed over her face till she was
in a little pool of it, and still she didn't open her eyes. And
Phronsie wailed and clung to her, getting as wet, so a thin
woman remarked, "as a drownded rat," and David was on the other
side, nearly as bad. As for Joel, he rushed up and down,
completely gone with fright. After all his brave fight, to have
Polly give out was something so very dreadful he couldn't think
of it.

"Here comes Mrs. Pepper," said somebody, and, "Thank the Lord,"
said another, and down the road in the doctor's gig, the little
doctor driving like mad, came Mamsie. They helped her out, and
she was in the yard, never looking at the little brown house;
for her black eyes were searching among the crowd, and her white
lips tried to frame some words.

"All safe, Marm," sang out the big redheaded man; "and you've
got some smart chaps," thinking he'd give all the comfort, and
at once, that was in his power.

"Polly ain't just well," spoke up somebody, sympathetically, and
in a minute Mamsie was down on the grass, with Polly's head in
her lap, the other children swarming around her, and Dr. Fisher
in the midst.

"Oh, I'm so ashamed," gasped Polly, coming to, and hiding her
face on Mrs. Pepper's breast.

"Don't you feel badly, Polly child," said Mamsie, smoothing her
brown hair gently; "you're all tired out. The little brown house
is all safe--just think of that!"

Polly thrust up her head and took one look. "Mamsie," she
whispered, holding to Mrs. Pepper's neck convulsively, "God did
stop the dreadful fire, didn't He?"

"He surely did," said Mrs. Pepper, looking around on all her
little group. The neighbors and townspeople, the firemen and the
crowd, stole silently off and left them there, but Dr. Fisher
stayed.

Suddenly Joel was missing. "Where is he?" asked Mrs. Pepper, a
fresh alarm gathering on her face.

"P'r'aps he's gone with the engine," piped up the boy who had
discovered the fire, and who seemed to think it his duty to
watch that it didn't break out again.

"Oh, no, Joel wouldn't do that," said Mrs. Pepper.

"I'll find him," said little Dr. Fisher, who had his own views
about Joel, after closely regarding his singed eyebrows and
black face; "lucky enough if he doesn't need considerable
patching up," he muttered to himself, as he strode off to
reconnoitre.

"There's no use in your hiding," he said aloud, as if talking to
some one. "So you might as well come out at once, and let me
know where you're hurt, Joe, and I'll fix you before your mother
sees you."

"I ain't hurt," said a voice from the lilac bushes.

"Oh, you are not?" said the little doctor, opening the bushes to
peer within, his spectacles setting well down on the end of his
nose, so that he looked over them. "That's good," and he soon
had Joel out. "Now then, I'll fix you up as good as ever," and
he rummaged his ample pockets for the things he had thrust into
them for this very work.

"I ain't hurt," said Joel, wriggling furiously.

"Stand still, Joe," said the little doctor, coolly, "for I'm
going to patch you up, so that you're decent to see your mother.
Aren't you ashamed to get this way when Polly, poor brave girl,
has been so sick? Why, what's the matter with you!" suddenly
giving Joel a whirl, so that he could look in his face.

Joel's face was working frightfully. "I 'most--burnt--the little
brown house--up," he gasped. "I made a fire in--the stove!"


XXV

JOEL SELLS SHOES FOR MR. BEEBE


The little doctor kept a firm hold on Joel's jacket, and gazed
keenly into his face. "Um!" he said.

"I wanted--to--to--help Polly," gasped Joel. "O dear me!" He was
a sight to behold, as the tears washed their way down the grimy
face, which was still working fearfully, as he tried to hold in
his sobs.

"So you thought you'd help Polly," said Dr. Fisher, kindly; "was
that it, Joel?"

"Yes," said Joel; "she'd put the putty in, and put it in----and----"

"Put the putty in?" repeated the little doctor, aghast.

"Yes, or Ben had."

"I never in all my life heard of burning putty in a stove," said
Dr. Fisher, helplessly, and setting his big spectacles again, as
if that might possibly assist him to understand.

"Oh, she didn't burn it," cried Joel, just as much astonished.

"Well, what did she do with it, then?" demanded Dr. Fisher.
"Dear me, I always supposed a stove was meant to burn things
in," and he waved his head helplessly, and regarded Joel with a
fixed stare.

"She stuck the putty in the holes," said Joel, very distinctly;
"don't you understand? Polly's stove is very old, and it's
cracked, and she says the air comes in and then the fire goes
down, so she has to stuff up all the mean old cracks. O dear me,
I wanted to help her," and off Joel went in another gust of
tears.

"I suppose Polly feels badly over her stove, sometimes,"
reflected Dr. Fisher, casting a very sharp glance on Joel. "I
really wonder if she does," he added carelessly.

"Feels badly!" exploded Joel. Then he took a good long look
around on all sides, and leaned over to whisper in the little
doctor's ear, "_She cries sometimes, Polly does_."

"No!" exclaimed Dr. Fisher.

"Yes, she does," declared Joel, shaking his stubby head
decidedly. "She cries dreadfully when Mamsie isn't looking. And
she didn't know that I saw her, either, only I peeked behind the
pantry door. And I wanted to--to--help her." He began to cry afresh
at the recollection.

"Joel," said Dr. Fisher, getting up suddenly, "you've got to
tell your mother how the little brown house got on fire."

"I know it," said Joel, but his head drooped, and his eyes fell.

"And the best way to right the wrong is to own up at once," said
the little doctor. "I suppose she's taught you that, eh, Joel?"

"Yes, sir," said Joel.

"Well, when you've got such a mother as you have, Joel,"
continued Dr. Fisher, "you better treat her as well as you know
how. So run along, and be quick with you," and Dr. Fisher gave
him a resounding clap on the shoulder, that sent Joe flying off
like a shot from a gun, while the little doctor stole off the
back way, and got into his gig, and drove off as fast as he
could, and thus escaped being thanked.

And the Badgertown folks got together and held a meeting in Mr.
Atkins' store that very evening, and said that it was a pity
that Mrs. Pepper, who was struggling so to bring up all those
five children, should have such a hard time. So each man put his
hand in his pocket and fished out some money; and the carpenters
came next day and mended up all the holes where the axe had cut
through the roof; and the whole house was cleaned and dried where
the water had run down, and then there was one dollar and forty-five
cents left over, for people had been so very generous.

"Just keep it, Mrs. Pepper," said the spokesman, "'twill come in
handy, most likely;" and Mrs. Pepper couldn't speak, she was
so taken aback. But they didn't seem to feel as if they hadn't
been thanked enough, as they all went back again into the
village.

Ben had been working in a distant wood-lot for Deacon Blodgett,
and so hadn't heard a word of the fire until he got into the
village, on his way home. Then he said he wouldn't believe it,
unless he should see for himself. So he ran every step of the
way home, and rushed in all out of breath. "What's happened?" he
demanded of the first person he met. This happened to be Polly.

"Oh, Ben!" she exclaimed, flinging her arms around him. And then
followed all the story.

And Ben continued to blink every now and then up at the ceiling,
varied by hurrying out to gaze at the, roof, when he would rub his
eyes. "Dear me, Polly!" he would exclaim, "it seems just like an
awful dream."

"I wish it was," sighed Polly, "and I guess Joel wishes so,
too."

But the next day, when the Badgertown people came with their
gift, then the five little Peppers changed about to the very
happiest children in the world! And as soon as the visitors had
gone, the whole bunch of Peppers just took hold of hands, and
danced like wild little things around the table where the pile
of silver quarters and ten cent pieces lay.

"Mamsie," said Polly, when at last they stopped to take breath,
"did you ever know of such good people in the world as our
Badgertown folks?"

"I'm sure I didn't," declared Mrs. Pepper, wiping her eyes. "May
the Lord reward them, for I'm sure I can't."

Polly suddenly left the ring of Peppers, and came close to her
mother. "Perhaps you can, sometime, Mamsie," she said soberly.

"I hope so," replied Mother Pepper. "Well, well look forward to it,
and take the chance, if it ever comes, you may be sure, Polly."

That night, when the little brown house was as still as a mouse,
Polly heard a loud scream come pealing down from the room in the
loft. Mrs. Pepper, strange to say, didn't hear it at all; poor
woman, she was very tired with her work, from which she had been
hurried so unceremoniously when the alarm of fire reached her,
and she had lain awake all the first part of the night with a
heart burdened with anxious care.

"Joel's dreaming all about the fire, most likely," said Polly to
herself. So she slipped on Mamsie's old wrapper, picking it up
so that she would not trip and tumble on her nose, as she sped
softly over the stairs.

"Joel, hush!" she said reprovingly, "you'll wake Mamsie and
Phronsie! Ben, do make him keep still!"

"I can't," said Ben, only half awake. "Hush up there, Joe!" and
he turned over a very sleepy face, and tried to look at Polly.

"'Tisn't me," said Joel, in high dudgeon; "I ain't a 'fraid-cat."
And Polly stared to see David sitting on the edge of the
bed he shared with Joel, and tucking up his feet well under
him, while he shook with terror as he cried shrilly, "They're
running all up my legs!"

"Poor little thing!" exclaimed Polly, sitting down on the other
edge of the bed, at the risk of getting on Joel's toes. "He's
frightened," to the others. "I s'pose you've been dreaming,
Davie."

"No, no!" cried Davie, huddling up worse than ever. "There goes
one of 'em now!" he exclaimed suddenly, and pointed toward Polly;
"he's just running under Mamsie's wrapper!"

Polly hopped off the bed in her liveliest fashion, while from
under Mamsie's wrapper scuttled a black object over the bedquilt
in the opposite direction. "What is it?" she cried, beginning to
shake violently herself; "O dear me! are there any more of
them?"

"Yes," said Davie, "there are lots and lots, Polly. O dear me!"
He couldn't twist himself into a smaller knot than he was, so
there he sat, as miserable as possible, with the tears rolling
down his face.

"Joel!" cried Polly, giving that individual a little poke in the
back, as he appeared to be going off to sleep again, "you can
tell about these black things! I must know; so what is it?"

"Let me go to sleep," grunted Joel, twisting away from her
fingers.

"No," said Polly, firmly, "I shan't, Joey Pepper. What are those
black things that Davie--O dear me, there is another one!" and
Polly hopped back upon the bed, for there was a second black
creature steering straight for her in the dim light.

Joel gave a long restful sigh. "Do let me alone," he said
crossly. But Polly leaned over and shook his shoulder smartly.

"See here, now," cried Ben, roused by all this, "you just sit up
in bed, Mister Joel, and tell Polly all you know about this
business. Do you hear?" And suddenly over came Ben's pillow
flying through the air, to tumble over Joel's chubby nose.

"Nothin' to tell," declared Joel, again; but he sat up in bed.

"So you said before," said Polly; "but these black things got up
here somehow, and you know all about it, I'm sure. So you've
just got to tell all about it, Joel Pepper."

"It's crickets!" blurted Joel, suddenly, "an' Dave an' me brought 'em
to put in Ben's bed, an'--"

"Thank you," interrupted Ben, and, "Oh, Davie," reprovingly said
Polly.

"I'm sorry," said little Davie, wriggling up his toes; "I didn't
know they hopped so bad. Oh, Polly, they're all running up my
legs," he cried with another burst.

"Never mind," said Polly, quite reassured, "they're nothing but
dear, nice little crickets. I don't care, now; but it's dreadful
to see black things in the middle of the night, when you don't
know what they are."

"I don't like 'em, Polly," wailed David. "I'd rather they'd be
out of doors."

"But you helped to bring 'em in," said Polly. "How could you,
Davie?" she added reproachfully.

"Dave didn't 'xactly help," said Joel, uneasily. "I told him
he'd got to, Polly," he added honestly.

"Oh, I see," said Polly. "Well, now, Davie, you're going
downstairs to get into Mamsie's bed."

"Oh, goody!" cried Davie, smiling through his tears; and
stepping gingerly out of bed on the tips of his toes, lest he
should meet a black cricket unawares, he skipped to the head
of the stairs.

"Shake your clothes," called Polly, in a smothered voice,
fearful lest Mamsie and Phronsie should wake up. Thereupon she
began to shake the old wrapper violently. "We mustn't carry any
of 'em downstairs," she said, while Joel set up a howl.

"Oh, I don't want Dave to go downstairs and leave me," he whined.

"Yes, you can stay up here with your crickets," said Polly,
coolly, having shaken off any possibility of one remaining on
Mamsie's wrapper.

"And to-morrow morning you just step around lively and pick 'em
all up and carry 'em out doors," said Ben, before turning over
for another nap. "Good night, Polly."

"Good night, Ben," said Polly, softly, going downstairs after
Davie, who was pattering ahead, "and good night, Joey."

"Good night," snivelled Joel. "O dear me, I don't want Dave to
go. Well, anyway, he ain't goin' away ever again, Polly Pepper--so
there!"

The next morning, as soon as it was light enough to see them,
Joel picked up all his crickets. It was no easy matter, for they
made him an awful piece of work, hopping and jumping into all
the corners; and, just as soon as his thumb and fingers were on
them--away they were off again. But Ben had said every one must
go. So at it Joel kept, until the perspiration just rolled from
his tired, hot face.

"I don't like 'em, Polly," he confided, when the last one was
escorted out of doors, "and I ain't ever goin' to bring one in
again."

"I wouldn't, Joe," said Polly, "and it isn't nice to scare folks,
I think."

"I think so, too," said Phronsie, with a wise nod of her yellow
head, as she sat on the floor, playing with David.

"Think what, Phronsie?" cried Joel, suddenly.

"What Polly said," replied Phronsie, patting Seraphina, who was
being shown the pictures in a bit of old newspaper that David
was pretending to read.

"Hoh! Hoh!" cried Joel, bursting into a laugh. "You don't know
whatever you're talking about, Phron. Does she, Polly?"

"Don't tease her," said Polly; but Phronsie didn't hear, being
absorbed in correcting Seraphina, who had wobbled over on her
back instead of sitting up elegantly to view the pictures.

Joel ran down the next day to see Mrs. Beebe, Mother Pepper
giving the long-desired permission. Davie had a little sore
throat, and he much preferred to stay near Mamsie's chair.

"Now, Joe, remember to be good," warned Mother Pepper, the last
thing, when he had been washed and dressed and brushed and
declared quite prepared.

"I'm going to be always good," declared Joel. "I ain't ever
going to be like Ab'm," he added in disgust.

"Joel," reproved Mrs. Pepper, sternly, "don't judge other folks;
it's enough for you to do to look out for yourself."

Joel hung his head, abashed.

"Well, good-by," said Mrs. Pepper, the stern lines on her face
breaking into a smile.

"Good-by, Mamsie!" Joel flew back suddenly, to throw his arms
around her neck, then he rushed up to do the same thing to Polly,
and then to Phronsie.

"Don't kiss David," said his mother, "'cause you may take his
throat."

"Then I want to kiss him," cried Joel. "Mayn't I, Mammy?" he
wheedled. "I don't want Dave to have it."

"Oh, he'd have it just as much," said Mrs. Pepper, sewing away
for dear life.

"How could he?" cried Joel, in great astonishment, and standing
quite still. "Say, Mammy, how could he, if I took it?"

"You'd find if you took it there'd be quite enough sore throat
for two," answered Mrs. Pepper. "Well, run along, Joe, you
wouldn't understand, and 'tisn't necessary that you should; only
you are to do as I say, that's all."

So Joel ran off, waving a good-by to David; and since he was not
allowed to kiss him, he gave a rousing "Hooray," which delighted
little Davie greatly, as he stood, his face pressed to the
window, to see him go.

Once within Mrs. Beebe's home, it was enchantment enough. It was
a good afternoon for the shoe business, Mr. Beebe having two
customers. One of them was a very fussy woman who had a small
boy in charge. Joel was in high glee at being called upon to
help lift down ever so many boxes, until pretty near every shoe in
the stock was tried on. Mrs. Beebe kept coming out of the little
parlor at the back of the shop, and saying, "Ain't you through
with Joel yet, Pa?" all of which made Joel feel very important,
indeed, and almost decided him to keep a shoe shop, when he grew
up, instead of being a stage-coach driver.

"No," said Mr. Beebe, shortly, "I ain't through with him, Ma.
He's a master hand at getting them boxes down."

"Hain't you got a pair a little mite broader across the toes?"
asked the woman. "Stand up and stamp in 'em, Johnny." So Johnny
stood up and stamped in the new shoes.

"Real hard," said his mother. So he stamped real hard.

"I'd druther have another pair a mite broader," said the woman,
discontentedly.

"I showed you some broader ones," said old Mr. Beebe. "Well,
Joel, my boy, you'll have to climb up and hand down that box up
in the corner. P'r'aps some of those will suit."

So Joel, who wished he could be there every day in the year, and
that that woman would all the time bring in boys who wanted different
shoes from any that Mr. Beebe had, climbed up like a squirrel and
brought the box to Mr. Beebe.

"Now, Marm," said the shoe-store keeper, deftly whipping a good
roomy pair, "I guess these are about what you want," and he
laughed cheerily.

"No, they ain't either," said Johnny's mother, snappishly taking
them, and viewing them critically, "they're big as all out doors,
Mr. Beebe."

"Well, he wants 'em to wear out o' doors, don't he?" said Mr.
Beebe, "so I guess they'll suit, at last."

"Well, they won't," said the woman, "an' you needn't try 'em on,
Johnny. They're a sight bigger'n they orter be. I guess I can
tell soon's I see a shoe."

"Can't Joel come now, Pa?" asked old Mrs. Beebe, presenting her
cap-border in the doorway again. It was quite fine, with new
pink ribbons which she had put on because she had company.

"Yes, pretty soon, Ma," replied her husband, quite worn out.
"Well, I'm sure I'm sorry I can't suit you, Marm," turning to
the woman, "but I honestly can't, for I've shown you every
shoe in my shop. Here, Joel, we'll begin and pack 'em up again,"
he said, sorting the pairs out from the pile on the counter that ran
across the side of the shop, and slinging them by the string that
tied them together, over his arm.

"I'll see that pair," said the woman, suddenly, touching one as
it dangled over Mr. Beebe's arm.

"All right, Marm," said Mr. Beebe, most obligingly. So he knelt
down before Johnny again, and pulled on the shoes, and Johnny's
mother told the boy to stand up and stamp in 'em, all of which
was performed, and old Mr. Beebe got up and pulled out his
bandanna and wiped his hot face.

"Now that's somethin' like," said the woman, with a bob of her
head, while her little eyes twinkled. "I guess I know the right
shoe, as well as the next one. Why didn't you show 'em to me
before?" she snapped.

"You've had them shoes on twice before," said Mr. Beebe, "or at
least the boy has, and first they were too broad, and then they
were too narrer."

"Well, I'll take 'em, anyway, now," said the woman, laying down
the money, "and I guess I know, as well as the next one, whether
my boy's tried on shoes or not."

"Now, Joel," said old Mr. Beebe, when the little green door with
its jangling bell had really closed on her and on Johnny, "as
soon as we get these shoes back again in the boxes, you better
run into th' parler, 'cause Ma's been a-waitin' considerable."

Joel, much divided in his mind whether he would rather stay in
the shop altogether, with the delightful shoes, or go out and
spend half of the time with Mrs. Beebe and the doughnuts and
pink and white sticks he felt almost sure were waiting for him,
came to the conclusion that he really couldn't decide which was
the more delightful; and then the shop-door bell jangled again,
and there was another customer.

This time it was a little thin old man, and although he came
from another town, he seemed to be a great friend of Mr. Beebe's,
who now joyfully welcomed him.

"Well, I declare, if 'tain't Obadiah Andrews!" exclaimed the
shoe-shop keeper, radiantly, taking a good look at the newcomer.
"I haven't seen you for a week o' Sundays, Obadiah."

"Nor I hain't seen you," declared the little man, just as well
pleased, and sitting down gladly. "I'm most beat out, a-gittin'
here, so I want some new shoes, Jotham, and I cal'late I'll get
'em about as nice as they make 'em here."

"I cal'late so, too, Obadiah," said old Mr. Beebe, rubbing his
hands together in a pleased way. "Now, Joel, we'll get down all
the shoes on this side," and he ambled across the shop, "an' you
can put up the boys' sizes, afterwards, if you want to."

"Pa, ain't you most through with Joel? Oh, why, here's Mr.
Andrews!" exclaimed Mrs. Beebe. Then she came into the little
shop and sat down, while Mr. Beebe and Joel got out the shoes
that were to be tried on. "It's so nice that I can pass the time
o' day with you, meanwhilst," she observed.

But it didn't take very long to satisfy old Mr. Andrews. As soon
as the first shoe was pulled on he declared it was just right,
although the shoe-shop keeper offered to try on the others.

"P'r'aps these'll pinch when you get home," suggested Mr. Beebe,
anxiously, "or somethin' else as bad will be the matter with
'em." But the little old man said, "No; do 'em up, Jotham."

So the shoes were rolled in paper, and tied with a red string,
and then Mr. Obadiah Andrews said, "Now I'm a-goin' to set an'
visit, and pass the time o' day with you, Jotham."

"So do," cried old Mr. Beebe, delightedly, counting out the
change. "Now, Joel, you can pile all them shoes back, and then
finish the boys' sizes, if you want to; and after that, Ma, he
can go into the parlor, and be company to you."

When Mrs. Beebe and Joel finally got into the parlor, leaving
the two old friends talking busily, there only remained ten
minutes before it was time to go home.

"O dear me!" exclaimed old Mrs. Beebe, quite aghast, as she
glanced at the clock. "Well, you must obey your Ma, and the only
thing I see out of it is, you must come again." So she stuffed
into a paper bag all the pink and white sticks and doughnuts
that were piled so nicely, in a company fashion, on a blue plate.
"There," she said, smothering her disappointment as best she
could, "take these home with you, and tell your Ma I expect you
again, some day. We can't help it, 'cause Pa's been so busy,"
as Joel ran off.

"I've sold shoes all the afternoon," he screamed, rushing into
the little brown house, and for a moment forgetting the paper
bag and its precious contents. Then it came ever him in a burst.
"Look at this!" swinging it over Polly's brown head. She bobbed
it up suddenly. "Look out!" screamed Joel, but too late; Polly's
brown head bumped into the bag, and away it spun, and the
doughnuts and pink and white sticks went flying all over the
kitchen floor.

"Now, that's too bad," cried Polly, jumping up to help pick them
up. "Oh, Joel, what a perfectly splendid lot!"

"Ain't it!" said Joel, his mouth watering to begin on them.
"Here's one more," spying a pink stick behind Mamsie's chair.
"Here 'tis. I've got it!" emerging in triumph, and holding it
fast. "Where's Phronsie and Dave?"

"Over at Grandma's," said Polly.

"O dear!" began Joel, then he thought a minute. "I'm going to
take Grandma a doughnut, Polly," he cried, dancing off, and
swinging the bag, into which he had crammed all the "goodies."

He heard Phronsie singing to Grandma, which she was very fond of
doing, and perched up on the side of the bed, Grandma smiling
away, as well pleased as though she heard every word.

"Dave," screamed Joel, bounding in, and swinging the bag, "you
don't know what I've got," and he hopped up on the bed between
Grandma and Phronsie.

When Davie saw that, he got out of his chair and speedily hopped
up on the bed, too. Grandma laughed till the tears rolled down
her cheeks.

"I guess you'll laugh more yet, Grandma," declared Joel,
untwisting the top of his bag, and bringing a pair of bright
black eyes very close to it to peer within. "It's perfectly
splendid!" he cried, holding his hands so no one else could see.

"Oh, Joey, do show us!" cried Phronsie, getting up to kneel on
the patched bedquilt, to look over his arm.

"You may take one peek," decided Joel, suddenly, bringing his
eyes away from the mouth of the bag to gaze at them. "Grandma
must have the first one; then you must guess what it is."

"I guess it's doughnuts," said little Davie, "'cause you've been
to Mrs. Beebe's, and besides, I smell 'em." Grandma smiled all
the time, just as happily as if she had heard everything that
had been said.

"There's something else," said Joel, emphatically, "but 'tisn't
your guess. Now, Grandma," he held the bag close up to the old
lady's cap-border, "look!"

"My!" exclaimed the old lady. "What you got, Joel?" as he
twitched away the bag.

"Didn't you see?" cried Joel; "well, you may have one more peek,
'cause you are Grandma," and he brought it up again before her
eyes.

"Doughnuts?" said Grandma. "My sakes! where'd you get 'em?"

"You may have one," said Joel, peering into the depths of the
bag to fish out a good-sized one, that was sugary all over,
which he dropped in her hands.

"Give me one," begged Phronsie, holding out both hands.

"In a minute," said Joel. "Now, Grandma, what else is in here?"
giving the bag a shake.

"Hey?" asked Grandma; "speak louder, Joel."

"O dear me! I can't speak so's she'll hear," said Joel, in
despair, to the others. So he shook the bag again, when the
bottom of it came out, and away the doughnuts and pink and white
sticks flew, and rolled all over the patched bed-quilt.

"There, now," said Joel, in disgust; "there isn't any use in
anybody's guessing anything. But we can eat 'em now," he added,
brightening.


XXVI

MISS PARROTT'S COACH AND THE COASTING


It was snowing tiny flakes when Joel's eyes popped open, and
the small, feathery things whirled against the little paned
window, as if they would very much like to come in.

"Dave--Dave!" cried Joel, poking him, "get up--it's snowing!"

David's eyes flew quite wide at that, and he sat up at once. "Oh,
Joel," he squealed, as he watched the flakes, "ain't they
pretty!"

"Um! I guess so," said Joel, springing into his clothes;
"they're nice for snowballs and to slide on, anyway."

David reached over for one blue woollen stocking on the floor by
the side of the bed, and sat quite still with it in his hand,
regarding the snowy whirl.

"You ain't got dressed a bit," cried Joel, spinning around, "and
I'm all ready."

"So will I be all ready," cried little David, pulling on the
stocking with all haste, and flying at the rest of his clothes with
alacrity. "Wait, Joe--do," as Joel began to clatter downstairs.

"Can't," said Joel, racing off, "I'm going to get the sled."

"Wa-it," called Davie, half crying.

But Joel was in the woodshed, hauling out the precious sled that
Ben had made for the boys out of some boards and old sleigh
runners that had been given him. He was dragging it out with a
dreadful noise from the corner where it had stayed all summer,
when Polly came running out.

"I don't believe it's going to snow much," she said, squinting
at the feathery specks. "You won't want your sled to-day, boys."

"I'm goin' to have it ready," said Joel, with another pull.

"Well, I'll help you," said Polly, taking hold of one end. "Dear
me, I do think this is the most splendid sled in all the world,"
she exclaimed enthusiastically. "I don't see how Ben could make
it so nice."

"Ben can do anything," declared Joel, tugging away.

"I know it," said Polly, with pride. "Well, I wish he had time
to go coasting all he wants to," she added sorrowfully.

"Maybe he will have, this winter," suggested Joel, who never
could bear to see Polly sad.

"P'r'aps," said Polly; "but there's always wood to chop in the
winter, Joe. There--here it comes!" as the big sled tumbled out
with a rush, to be dragged into the middle of the woodshed floor.

David now came running downstairs, and Phronsie, hearing that
the sled was to be drawn out, pattered into the woodshed, too.
"Oh, Polly," she cried in rapture, "now I'm going out to ride on
it this very minute," and she danced round and round, clapping
her hands in glee.

"O dear me!" cried Polly, pointing out of the little low window.
"See, Phronsie, there's only the leastest little bit of snow.
Why, I do verily b'lieve it's going to stop."

At this dreadful suggestion, every one of the little Peppers in
the woodshed rushed to the window, and Joel flung wide the door,
so that a cold blast, carrying a feathery cloud of little flakes,
swept in.

"Oh, Joel!" exclaimed Polly, "shut the door, Phronsie'll catch
cold." Joel was already out in the house-place, dancing about,
declaring it was going to be awful deep, and they could make a
snow man soon, he guessed; so little Davie ran and pushed to the
door, shutting off all chance of hearing the rest of what he was
saying. He was gone some time, and the others ran into the
kitchen, for Polly declared they would get no breakfast that day
if she did not hurry up, and David and Phronsie thought it much
nicer to watch the snowstorm from those windows than from the
little tucked-up window in the woodshed. The consequence was
that Joel ran in just as they had begun breakfast, in a fine
glow, his cheeks very red, and his chubby nose as well. "Why
didn't you come?" he demanded, with sparkling eyes.

"Where?" cried Polly. "Oh, Joe, what have you been doing? Your
face is as red as fire."

"And your nose is red, too," said David.

"I don't care," said Joel, slipping into his seat. "Give me some
mush, Polly, do!" he begged hungrily, passing his bowl. "Oh,
'twas just prime, I tell you!"

"What?" asked Polly, quickly. "You keep saying it's fine, and
don't tell us what you've been doing. That isn't polite," she
added, for Polly was quite particular as to her manners, and
liked to be very genteel before the other children.

"Oh, I've been riding in Miss Parrott's coach," said Joel,
trying to appear as if this were an everyday occurrence, and
eating on as if nothing had happened. Miss Parrott lived in an
old ancestral house, about two miles from Badgertown. She was
very rich, but kept entirely to herself, and drove about in an
ancient coach, the envy of all the villagers. "And I called you
all to come, and you wouldn't."

"Oh, Joel Pepper!" cried Polly, greatly shocked to think of the
splendid chance they all had missed, and dropping the big spoon
with which she was serving the mush, "you never called us one
single bit!"

"No, you never did!" added David, solemnly, and looking at Polly
with all his eyes.

"Never did!" echoed Phronsie, shaking her yellow head positively.
"Polly, I want some more mush, I do."

"Yes, I did, too," spoke up Joel, loudly.

"Joel!" reproved Mother Pepper.

"Well, I did, Mamsie," repeated Joel, in a very injured tone. "I
called just like this, 'come quick! and ride in Miss Parrott's
coach;' so there!"

"O dear me!" cried Polly, passionately, sitting back in her
chair, "I'd rather have gone in that coach than have done
anything else, and now you've been, and we never'll get a chance
again. Never in all this world!"

"How did it happen, Joel?" asked Ben. "Do tell the whole story
from the beginning."

"Why, you see it was this way," began Joel. "Polly, give me some
more mush, do," passing his bowl.

"O dear me, do tell first, Joe," cried Polly, impatiently. "I
don't know where the spoon is," for the big spoon had tumbled
off to the floor, and she hadn't seen it go in the excitement.

"Joel, get a clean one," said Mrs. Pepper, "and then pick up the
other; it's likely it fell down."

So Joel hopped out of his chair and got a clean spoon for Polly,
and then dived under the table and came back with the other
spoon. "Now begin and tell us all about it," said his mother.
"No, Polly, you needn't help him the mush till he's told."

So Joel, seeing he wasn't to get the mush until the whole story
how he got his ride in the Parrott coach was related, began at
once, and rattled it off as fast as he could. "The--man--that--
drives--it--stopped--an'--I--was--in--th'--yard--an'--he--said--
don't--you--wanter--all--hands--o'--you children--to drive--
I've--got--to drive a--piece--down th'--road--an' I--called--
and--called--you--an'--we--went--an'--that's all. Now give me
some mush!"

"If we only had known!" mourned Polly, clasping her hands. "Is
it lined with green satin, Joel?" she asked suddenly.

"I don't understand," said Mrs. Pepper, in a puzzled way. "Where
were you, Joel, when Miss Parrott's man asked you? And you
didn't go bareheaded, and without your coat?"

"Out in the yard, Mamsie," answered Joel. "Polly, do give me
some mush," for Polly was so absorbed waiting to hear if Miss
Parrott's coach was really lined with green satin, that she had
forgotten all about Joe and his breakfast. So now she hastily
dipped out the mush into the bowl that was waiting for it. "Is it
really lined with green satin, Joel?" she cried breathlessly.

"I don't know," said Joel, all his attention upon his bowl of
mush.

"I most know it is," said Polly, leaning her elbows on the table,
and her head upon her hands, to think how it would really seem
to be riding in a coach lined with green satin.

"And now I never shall go," she ended.

"Why didn't you come back for us?" asked David, suddenly. He
hadn't eaten anything since Joel had rushed in with the
wonderful story, and between Polly's disappointment and his own,
was in a great state of distress.

"Oh, I thought you were coming right off," said Joel, swallowing
rapid mouthfuls; "and then, when I got into the coach, the man
that drives Miss Parrott said he couldn't wait no longer."

"Any longer, you mean," corrected Mrs. Pepper.

"Yes'm," said Joel; "and then we drove off."

"You see, we had to shut the door to the woodshed," said Polly,
"'cause Phronsie would catch cold if we didn't, and we didn't
hear a single word when you called, Joel Pepper; not a single
one!"

"Where'd you go?" asked David, suddenly.

"Oh, down to the Centre," said Joel, "to two--no, I guess four stores,
and then he brought me home--that is, almost home. He dropped
me at the corner."

"O dear me!" exclaimed Polly.

"Oh, jolly! look at the snow!" screamed Joel, flying out of his
chair. And sure enough, while they had been so engrossed, there
it had been coming down faster and faster, until it was a
powdery veil, almost too thick to see through.

So somewhere in the middle of the morning, Joel and David
started off with their sled, drawing on their mittens with the
greatest satisfaction, and bobbing good-by to the others
watching them from the windows.

All went well, until Joe proposed that they should go to Simon's
Hill, a long steep thoroughfare some two miles distant, that
swung at the bottom very abruptly into the turnpike. And
trudging off there, they climbed it with despatch, and began to
coast down.

"Oh, whickets!" cried Joel, who was steering, little Davie hanging
on behind, more than three-quarters afraid, though he wouldn't let
Joel see it for all the world. "Gee-haw-gee-haw-whee-dimp-dump,"
as they flew over the rises, bumping and twisting from side to side.

[Illustration: "GEE-HAW-GEE-HAW-WHEE-DIMP-DUMP"]

"Oh, take care, Joe," screamed David, in terror, "we most went
over," for on one side the road ran down abruptly into a thicket
of evergreen and scrub oaks.

"Hoh, we're going straight!" sang out Joel, "you're always such
a 'fraid-cat, David Pepper."

"I ain't a 'fraid-cat," protested Davie, "and I want to go home
to mother."

"Well, you are going down again, eleven, no, I guess sixty
times," declared Joel, "after this. Gee-whiz-bump-bump-bang!"
This last was brought out of him by a sudden slewing to the side,
where the slope ran off to the evergreen, scrub oak thicket; but
Joel missed the edge by about an inch, so he screamed with
delight, and whizzed safely down the rest of the hill.

"I ain't going down ever again," said David, "not once, Joel,"
as they flew along and the cold air swept his pale cheeks.

Just then, along the turnpike toward the abrupt turn of the
hill-road, was coming an ox-pung, loaded with wood, and driven
by old Farmer Seeley, who was almost as blind as a bat and deaf
as a post.

"Hi!" screamed Joel, whizzing along. "See us come down," but
Farmer Seeley neither saw nor heard, and just then he concluded
to steer his team up as near as possible to the hill-road. Joel
saw this, and yelled, but he might as well have screamed to the
hill. It was all done in a moment. Down flew the clumsy home-made
sled, that couldn't be turned in a second; Joel frantically
steering to get past the big awkward team, that was blocking up
the way, David clinging to him in a dumb helpless terror.
Z-z-rr-thud! and the first thing that old Farmer Seeley knew, four
small arms and legs were waving frantically in the air, and
thrown suddenly, with a mixture of boards and runners, against
the ox-team of wood, with an awful crash; and then all was still.

"Land o' Goshen!" ejaculated Farmer Seeley, at the crash.
"What's that 'ere? O my gracious Peters!" as he saw what it was
as well as he was able, for his poor eyes. And getting off from
the team he went to the spot, shaking so in every limb, that he
could hardly walk.

There was no sound beneath the upturned sled, where it lay just
as it had been thrown against the wood-pung, and for one dreadful
moment Farmer Seeley thought the two boys to whom the small legs
and arms belonged were dead, and he shook so his false teeth rattled
in his head, and he sat right down in the snow.

"I must dig 'em out," he said to himself in a cold fright, "for
they've druv their heads clean into the snow, and they may get
stuffocated, if they ain't already dead."

So he did the best he could in that work, proceeding only a
little way, when Joel bounced up suddenly, shook his black hair,
and rubbed his eyes. "Oh, I remember," he said.

"Now, see here--you boy," screamed old Farmer Seeley, angrily,
"I'll have you took up, whoever ye be, a-runnin' into my ox-team,
an' a-buntin' into my wood. Um--I will!"

"Get Dave out," cried Joel, who cared very little for whatever
the old man might say, and pawing the snow wildly. "Help me get
Dave out."

"I can't help none," said the old man, querulously. "I'm stiff
in th' jints, an' beside, you've scart me to death, eenamost."

"Oh--oh!" screamed Joel, in a frightful panic. "Dave--get up,
Dave!"

But David lay like a little log of wood, as still as those on
the old pung.


XXVII

PRINCES AND PRINCESSES


"Polly," said Mrs. Pepper, "don't worry any more about the boys
not coming home; just keep the potatoes hot in the oven." For
Polly had run to the window about a dozen times, wondering where
they could be, and why they didn't come back for dinner.

"They are having a nice time, somewhere, bless their hearts,"
said Mrs. Pepper, with a smile. "I'm so glad the snow has come
early, for they've been longing for it so much." She hadn't felt
so happy and contented for a good while, for besides rejoicing
in her boys' pleasure, Mr. Atkins had given her this very
morning an order to knit as many mittens as she could, and she
even caught herself humming a little tune.

Polly heard her, and ran over to her side. "Oh, Mamsie Pepper!"
she exclaimed, "do sing it," and she threw her arms around her
neck.

"I can't sing now," said Mother Pepper, a little flush coming on
her cheek, "and besides, I don't need to, with you, Polly," and
she smiled fondly on her.

"I'll stop, Mamsie--if you'll only sing to us more," cried Polly.

"Then I never should sing, Polly," declared Mother Pepper, with
a little laugh. "I shouldn't know what to do, child, if I didn't
hear you singing round."

"Shouldn't you, Mammy?" asked Polly, much gratified, and curling
down into a little ball at her mother's feet.

"No, dear, I shouldn't." Mrs. Pepper stopped her work long
enough to lay her hand caressingly on Polly's brown hair. "Why,
it wouldn't seem like the little brown house at all, Polly, and
I don't know what we should any of us do, if you stopped it."

"Then I'll sing always for you, Mamsie," said Polly; "I truly
will."

"So do, child. Well, I must hurry along, or I shan't get time to
begin on those mittens. And just think, Polly, Mr. Atkins has
promised to let me knit as many pairs as I can."

"Mamsie," said Polly, suddenly, and hopping to her feet, "won't
you teach me to knit, and then I can help you."

"Yes," said Mrs. Pepper; "for it's good for you to know how. But
I shan't be willing to have you help me any more than you do now.
I wish you didn't have to work so hard, child," and an anxious
cloud overspread the brightness on Mother Pepper's face.

"Oh, I'm not going to work too hard," cried Polly, with happy
throbs at her mother's words. And she dashed off to her
interrupted work, and Mrs. Pepper smiled, as presently Polly
began to sing so merrily that Phronsie set up a little song,
till the old kitchen was the cosiest place possible. At last, in
a lull, Mother Pepper called, "Polly, what is this stopping at
the gate? Tell him we don't want any," as she saw it was a load
of wood.

Polly ran to the door, and was beginning to say, "We don't want
any wood," when her face turned very white, and she ran over the
snow on unsteady feet. "Oh, Joel, what is it?" throwing her arms
around him. But before he could answer, there was Mrs. Pepper
close behind her.

They lifted Davie down from the pile of wood, where they had
made him as comfortable as possible, Farmer Seeley and Joel;
the old man tried to tell that "'Twarn't none o' my fault. Th' boys
ran into me," but Joel, for the first time in his life, was without words.

"Mamsie, don't feel badly," said little Davie, putting up his
face to be kissed, as her arms received him. Joel flew to Polly
for comfort.

"And Mr. Seeley's nice," said David, who had found out the old
farmer's name on the long, slow, homeward journey, and now
seemed afraid he might be blamed, and not thanked enough.

The old farmer, not hearing this, or indeed much of the talk,
kept saying at intervals, "'Twarn't my fault. I ain't to blame,"
till Mrs. Pepper carried David into the little brown house, and
the others, following mournfully enough, the door was shut.

David was laid up with a sprained ankle, that was all, after the
upset. But Joel found it dismal enough to play out in the snow
alone, and he kept pretty close to the window, so that he could
look up and sing out once in a while to Dave seated by it in
Mamsie's big rocking chair. And pretty soon, one day, Ben
brought Davie out, all bundled up, and set him carefully on the
big sled.

"There you are!" cried Ben, depositing his burden, "as fine as
can be," all the rest of the family flocking around to tuck
David in tighter, and to pull his tippet closer, and to be sure
that he had his mittens on.

"Don't go very far, Joe," cautioned Mrs. Pepper.

"I won't, Mamsie," said Joe, proudly enough, marching off, while
the big sled, with Davie sitting upon it as happy as a king,
came sliding along behind.

"Hooray!" cried a harsh voice, when they had proceeded in this
way for a good distance down the road, David joyfully exclaiming
every minute, "Oh, Joey, it's so good to get out doors again."

"Hooray!" screamed the voice again, and Joel, staring as hard as
he could, saw two boys pop up from behind a stone wall, and come
rushing down toward him, each with a large snowball in his hand.
And the next thing, the snowballs flew through the air, and one
hit David in the neck, and burst all over his tippet. Joel
didn't care that the other one gave him a whack on the head.

"You stop that!" commanded Joel, with a face as red as fire.
"Don't you hit Dave again," and his black eyes flashed.

"We're bigger'n you," sneered one boy, and he picked up some
more snow, and began to roll it into a hard ball.

"No, you ain't, either," contradicted Joel, who never would
acknowledge any one to be bigger than himself. "And you let Dave
alone, I say."

"We're going to push him off th' sled," said the other boy, with
a dreadful grin.

At this Joel looked all around in despair for a moment to see if
any one was coming who would help. "Davie's ankle. O dear me!"
he thought. So he got between the sled and the biggest boy. "You
let him alone!" he cried sturdily, setting his teeth tight
together.

"Hoh--hoh--'fraid-cat--'fraid-cat!" laughed both boys, hopping
about in glee, and singing over and over, '"Fraid-cat--'fraid-cat!"

Joel clenched his little brown hands together tightly. It was
hard work not to fly at them and pommel away. "But Davie's
ankle--dear--dear!" So he held his breath and kept still.

Suddenly both boys made a rush at David, meaning to make him
eat snow and have one ball thrust down his back at one and the
same time, but Joel was too quick for them, and the first thing
they knew, as David gave a scream at their approach, two hard
little fists were pommelling them to right and left.

"Stop it!" they cried. But Joel didn't know how to stop; he
pounded away so much and so fast, and they didn't exactly seem
to know where he was going to strike next, that in a few minutes
both boys were crying as hard as they could.

"'Fraid-cat! 'Fraid-cat!" sang Joel, dancing around them, and
swinging his fists in the liveliest fashion.

"Joel Pepper!" exclaimed a voice, suddenly, that made all the
boys skip, while little Davie shook in much worse apprehension
than he did before. "Fighting in the public road! Well, I never
heard anything so dreadful!"

Joel whirled around, his fists still ready. "I ain't fighting,"
he denied stoutly. It was Miss Jerusha, Parson Henderson's
sister.

"And it's bad enough to fight, without telling a lie about it,"
said Miss Jerusha, holding up her black gloves in horror. "I
ain't fighting. And I didn't tell a lie," declared Joel. "And
you mustn't say so," he added, advancing on her with blazing
eyes.

Miss Jerusha retreated. "You're a very bad boy," she said tartly,
"and I shall have no more to say to you."

"You must say I don't tell a lie," insisted Joel with unpleasant
firmness, and throwing his head back.

"What are you doing, if you're not fighting?" began Miss Jerusha,
loudly; "pray tell."

Joel was just going to say, "They were going to hurt Davie,"
when, before he could get the words out, Polly was seen running
down the road toward them all, her hood flying back on her
shoulders.

"Oh, Joel, what _do_ you think--" she began, when she saw
the two boys, and, worst of all, Miss Jerusha; then she came to
a dead stop.

"Where are your manners?" snapped that lady, wanting to scold
some one. "I'm sure when I was a girl I was pretty spoken, when
I met people."

"How do you do, Miss Jerusha?" asked Polly. Then she couldn't
help regarding the two boys with wide-eyed astonishment; they
dug the toes of their shoes in the snow, and wouldn't look at her.

"She says I told her a lie," blurted Joel, not taking his
blazing eyes from Miss Jerusha's face.

"O dear me!" exclaimed Polly, in the greatest distress. "Joel
couldn't tell a lie, Marm; he never did."

Joel flung his black head higher, but he didn't take his eyes
from Miss Jerusha's face.

"I'm sure I don't know nor care whether he did or not," retorted
Miss Jerusha, shrilly. "And you're very pert, Polly Pepper, to
set yourself up against your elders. When I was a little girl I
never contradicted folks. Never in all the world! What is your
mother thinking of, to bring you up in this way?" And she held
up her black gloves again.

"Polly," called little Davie, where he had been crouching
timidly in the middle of the big sled, "can't we go home?"

"Yes," said Polly, hoarsely. "Joel, come home with me this
minute; don't say another word, Mamsie wouldn't like it," she
commanded. She seized the rope, and Joel, removing his eyes with
the greatest difficulty from Miss Jerusha's face, grasped it, too,
and the little Peppers went as swiftly as they could go, back
home to Mamsie, leaving the other three in the middle of the road.

"O dear!" gasped Polly, as they ran on. Then, "Joel, if we can
only get to Mamsie," while back on the sled Davie trembled with
delight at the very thought.

In front of the little brown house stood a big comfortable
sleigh of the old-fashioned pattern. Although it had once been
very handsome, it was now faded and ancient. A man who almost
looked as if he had gone into service along with the sleigh and
the other belongings of his mistress, sat primly upon the front
seat. He expressed as much pleasure at seeing the little Peppers
coming, as his stoical countenance would allow, but he didn't
move a muscle of face or figure. At any other time Joel would
have howled with delight at seeing Miss Parrott's man sitting
there before the house, and in a sleigh. And it wouldn't have
been a minute before he would have been in that sleigh, and on
that front seat, besieging that stiff figure to let him drive.
But now Joel flew by, dropping the rope, and rushed into the
house, and Polly was left to drag David to the door, and call to
Mamsie to help lift him off. But she stopped to say to Miss
Parrott's man, "I must stop to speak to Mamsie, first, if you
please."

Miss Parrott's man so far forgot the ancient usage of his years
that he rubbed his eyes as Polly turned away, and then he turned
and continued to gaze at her as long as she was to be seen. For
he really could not believe that it was the same little girl who
had danced down the road, with sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks,
and he even glanced nervously around, the more he thought about
it.

"Mamsie!" cried Joel, hoarsely, flinging himself into Mother
Pepper's arms, as she came to the door to meet him, her face
beaming with happiness at the realization that Miss Parrott's
sleigh actually was waiting at the door to take her little ones
for a sleigh-ride, "Mamsie! Miss Jerusha says I told a lie. Did
I, Mammy?" and Joel clutched her and broke into a torrent of
tears.

And then Polly got there, and Davie was lifted off the sled and
carried into the house, and among all three of them the story
was out.

And there was Miss Parrott's man sitting stiffly on the front
seat of the sleigh, only his head was turned, and his eyes were
staring like all possessed at the little brown house.

"Now, Polly," said Mrs. Pepper, when there was no more to tell,
and the children gazed at her in amazement to see her so
cheerful, "you just get yourself ready, as soon as ever you can.
Wash your face good, and your eyes, and I'll spring to, and help
Joey and Davie. Phronsie's all ready." Indeed, she was, and
sitting patiently on her little cricket all this time, her small
mittened hands folded in her lap. To Phronsie, every bit of the
fuss of getting ready for a trip was always as much of a delight
as the expedition itself, and was enjoyed with grave pleasure.

"And, dear me!" continued Mother Pepper, in her briskest fashion,
all the while she was washing and patting and pulling the two
boys into just the right condition for such a grand occasion as
this, "there is Miss Parrott's man waiting out there all this
time! Now see how good you can stand still, Joey, and then we'll
be as quick as we can be." And pretty soon they were all ready,
and Joel's swollen nose and red eyes didn't look so very much
as if he had been crying, and Polly's face showed very little trace,
after all, that she had been crying, too. So they all went down to the
gate, Mother Pepper and Polly and Joel carrying David, and
Phronsie walking gravely behind.

"I am very sorry," said Mother Pepper to Miss Parrott's man,
still immovably staring at them, "to keep you waiting. It is not
my children's fault, I should say that." Then she helped them in,
and tucked the big fur robes all nicely around the three on the
back seat. Joel, of course, was by this time snugly settled on
the front seat.

"Now, children," said Mrs. Pepper, regarding them for a moment,
and standing quite still by the roadside, "you are to have the
very nicest time you ever had in all your lives. Remember!" and
she smiled at them, and all the sunbeams that ever shone seemed
to hop right down into their hearts. Miss Parrott's man solemnly
gathered up the reins tighter in his hands, and touched the
horses with the whip with the same dignity, and off they went.

Mrs. Pepper watched the big sleigh till she couldn't see a speck
of it; then she turned and went into the house, took down her
Sunday bonnet and shawl, for this was to be a call of importance,
and soon she had left the little brown house, and was walking
rapidly over the snowy road to the minister's house.

"I must get it over with as soon as I can, and be home before
they get back," she said to herself, going swiftly on.

It wasn't two minutes before Joel was laughing gayly, and
bobbing around with an important air on that front seat to the
others on the back seat, and Polly found herself tossing scraps
of nonsense back at him and the two others, and little Davie
smiled happily. As for Phronsie, she sat wedged in between the
other two, her little mittens folded in her lap, in grave
satisfaction. Miss Parrott's man drew a long breath when all
this was accomplished, and the only word he said for the first
two miles was, "I guess you're all right _now_."

Where they went, no one of the four little Peppers could have
told. It all seemed like Fairyland, a great enchanted space of
winding snowy roads, dazzling in the morning sunlight of a
perfect winter day; every little crystal sparkling away on a
pine tree, where it had to melt away, seemed to come out and
wink at them, as the stately horses bore them along. All the fields
sleeping under their soft, white blankets, were new to the Peppers
gliding by. That surely was not Deacon Brown's field, where they
used to race across lots, on a summer day! And as for that being
Mr. Blodgett's meadow--why! no one need ever tell them so; it
was enchanted ground, and they were princes and princesses
whirling by in their chariots.

"Let's play so," cried Polly, suddenly, and leaning back against
the padded cushion, feeling very glad indeed.

"What, Polly!" cried Joel, wheeling around, at the imminent
danger of tumbling out backward, and astonished that Polly
should want to play anything when they were enveloped with such
richness of enjoyment.

"Oh, that we were princesses and princes," answered Polly, with
a grand air, "and we were riding through our kingdom in a big
chariot."

"Oh, yes, let's--let's!" screamed Joel, "and I'm the biggest
prince," he announced, with another shout. "I wished I had a
feather in my cap," he added ruefully, remembering the splendid
one that Grandma Bascom's rooster had furnished for a former occasion,
when Polly decked him out a prince, and that was tucked away in
his box of treasures in the woodshed,--"O dear! if I'd only
brought it!"

"But we haven't got our things," said Polly, quickly, "so you
must just play it, Joel. That's as good as having the feather."

"I think it's heaven," said little Davie, with a long breath,
hanging out as far as he could over his side of the back seat.
"Polly, isn't it?"

"Yes, dear," said Polly, leaning past Phronsie to drop him a
kiss, which, by reason of the big sleigh going just then over a
hump of frozen snow, fell on the tip of his nose. This made him
laugh, and then Polly laughed, and Phronsie came out of her
grave delight, to gurgle her amusement; and Joel, hearing them
all have such a funny time back there, bobbed around again, and
_he_ laughed, though he never found out what it was all about.

And Miss Parrott's man learned more about princesses and princes
and golden chariots and Fairyland and enchanted things and
places in general than he ever heard in his life before, and when
at last they glided into Badgertown Centre, it really seemed as if
the cup of happiness would overflow.

"Polly," cried little David, his cheeks aflame under his woollen
cap that was drawn close around his ears, and sitting quite
erect as a prince should, "the people are all coming out to meet
us--the queen and king have sent us to do the errands; haven't
they, Polly?"

"Yes," cried Polly, delighted at the idea. "Oh, let's play
that!" So the four little Peppers drove down Badgertown main
street, where all the shops were, and old Mr. Beebe happened to
be standing by his little window watching for customers. "Ma--Ma!"
he screamed, "here's the Pepperses goin' by in a sleigh; it's Miss
Parrottses, I do declare."

And Mrs. Beebe, stopping to put on her best cap with the pink
ribbons before she ran out from the little parlor back of the
shop, of course didn't get there till long after the triumphal
procession was over. And of all the people who stared and
rejoiced in their happiness,--for there wasn't one who saw them
who didn't feel glad, down to the tips of the fingers and toes,
that the Peppers were going a-pleasuring,--no one of them all
suspected that it was a chariot load of princes and princesses
gliding by.

At last it was all over, and the golden chariot paused before
the little brown house. Polly and Joel carried David over the
snowy path, while Phronsie ran ahead like a mad little thing.
And so they all rushed in, royalty dropping off at the old flat
door stone.

"We've been princes," cried Joel, as Polly set Davie down, and
stamping the snow, gathered on the royal rush over the yard,
from his feet, "and I was the biggest prince."

"I was the best," declared David, twitching off his cap that had
gotten knocked over his eyes in the scramble to carry him in.
"Mamsie, I truly was."

"Oh, Mamsie!" cried Polly, dancing around the kitchen on happy
feet, her eyes glowing like stars, "it was perfectly gorgeous!"
for Polly dearly loved fine words, and she thought nothing could
be too grand for this occasion.

"And I was a princess," piped Phronsie, crowding up to hold fast
to her mother's gown. "I truly was, Mamsie. Polly said so."

"So you were," declared Mamsie, smiling happily on her whole
brood; "but then, you mustn't ever forget, children, that it's
well enough to be princes and princesses once in a while, but
you're my little brown house people every day."