OLD-FASHIONED FAIRY TALES

by

JULIANA HORATIA EWING.

London:
Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge,
Northumberland Avenue, W.C.
New York: E. & J.B. Young & Co.
[Published under the direction of the General Literature Committee.]


     DEDICATED TO MY DEAR SISTER, UNDINE MARCIA GATTY.

     J.H.E.


    "Know'st thou not the little path
    That winds about the Ferny brae,
    That is the road to bonnie Elfland,
    Where thou and I this night maun gae."

    _Thomas the Rhymer_.


PREFACE.


As the title of this story-book may possibly suggest that the tales
are old fairy tales told afresh, it seems well to explain that this is
not so.

Except for the use of common "properties" of Fairy Drama, and a
scrupulous endeavour to conform to tradition in local colour and
detail, the stories are all new.

They have appeared at intervals during some years past in "AUNT JUDY'S
MAGAZINE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE," and were written in conformity to certain
theories respecting stories of this kind, with only two of which shall
the kindly reader of prefaces be troubled.

First, that there are ideas and types, occurring in the myths of all
countries, which are common properties, to use which does not lay the
teller of fairy tales open to the charge of plagiarism. Such as the
idea of the weak outwitting the strong; the failure of man to choose
wisely when he may have his wish; or the desire of sprites to exchange
their careless and unfettered existence for the pains and penalties of
humanity, if they may thereby share in the hopes of the human soul.

Secondly, that in these household stories (the models for which were
originally oral tradition) the thing most to be avoided is a
discursive or descriptive style of writing. Brevity and epigram must
ever be soul of their wit, and they should be written as tales that
are told.

The degree in which, if at all, the following tales fulfil these
conditions, nursery critics must decide.

There are older critics before whom fairy tales, as such, need excuse,
even if they do not meet with positive disapprobation.

On this score I can only say that, for myself, I believe them to
be--beyond all need of defence--most valuable literature for the
young. I do not believe that wonder-tales confuse children's ideas of
truth. If there are young intellects so imperfect as to be incapable
of distinguishing between fancy and falsehood, it is surely most
desirable to develop in them the power to do so; but, as a rule, in
childhood we appreciate the distinction with a vivacity which, as
elders, our care-clogged memories fail to recall.

Moreover fairy tales have positive uses in education, which no
cramming of facts, and no merely domestic fiction can serve.

Like Proverbs and Parables, they deal with first principles under the
simplest forms. They convey knowledge of the world, shrewd lessons of
virtue and vice, of common sense and sense of humour, of the seemly
and the absurd, of pleasure and pain, success and failure, in
narratives where the plot moves briskly and dramatically from a
beginning to an end. They treat, not of the corner of a nursery or a
playground, but of the world at large, and life in perspective; of
forces visible and invisible; of Life, Death, and Immortality.

For causes obvious to the student of early myths, they foster sympathy
with nature, and no class of child-literature has done so much to
inculcate the love of animals.

They cultivate the Imagination, that great gift which time and
experience lead one more and more to value--handmaid of Faith, of
Hope, and, perhaps most of all, of Charity!

It is true that some of the old fairy tales do not teach the high and
useful lessons that most of them do; and that they unquestionably deal
now and again with phases of grown-up life, and with crimes and
catastrophes, that seem unsuitable for nursery entertainment.

As to the latter question, it must be remembered that the brevity of
the narrative--whether it be a love story or a robber story--deprives
it of all harm; a point which writers of modern fairy tales do not
always realize for their guidance.

The writer of the following tales has endeavoured to bear this
principle in mind, and it is hoped that the morals--and it is of the
essence of fairy tales to have a moral--of all of them are beyond
reproach.

For the rest they are committed to the indulgence of the gentle
reader.

Hans Anderssen, perhaps the greatest writer of modern fairy tales, was
content to say:

    "FAIRY TALE NEVER DIES."

    J.H.E.


CONTENTS.

     PAGE GOOD LUCK IS BETTER THAN GOLD

     THE HILLMAN AND THE HOUSEWIFE

     THE NECK, A LEGEND OF A LAKE

     THE NIX IN MISCHIEF

     THE COBBLER AND THE GHOSTS

     THE LAIRD AND THE MAN OF PEACE

     THE OGRE COURTING

     THE MAGICIANS' GIFTS

     THE WIDOWS AND THE STRANGERS

     KIND WILLIAM AND THE WATER SPRITE

     MURDOCH'S RATH

     THE LITTLE DARNER

     THE FIDDLER IN THE FAIRY RING

     "I WON'T"

     THE MAGIC JAR

     THE FIRST WIFE'S WEDDING-RING

     THE MAGICIAN TURNED MISCHIEF-MAKER

     KNAVE AND FOOL

     UNDER THE SUN


GOOD LUCK IS BETTER THAN GOLD.


There was once upon a time a child who had Good Luck for his godfather.

"I am not Fortune," said Good Luck to the parents; "I have no gifts to
bestow, but whenever he needs help I will be at hand."

"Nothing could be better," said the old couple. They were delighted.
But what pleases the father often fails to satisfy the son: moreover,
every man thinks that he deserves just a little more than he has got,
and does not reckon it to the purpose if his father had less.

Many a one would be thankful to have as good reasons for contentment
as he who had Good Luck for his godfather.

If he fell, Good Luck popped something soft in the way to break his
fall; if he fought, Good Luck directed his blows, or tripped up his
adversary; if he got into a scrape, Good Luck helped him out of it;
and if ever Misfortune met him, Good Luck contrived to hustle her on
the pathway till his godson got safely by.

In games of hazard the godfather played over his shoulder. In matters
of choice he chose for him. And when the lad began to work on his
father's farm the farmer began to get rich. For no bird or field-mouse
touched a seed that his son had sown, and every plant he planted
throve when Good Luck smiled on it.

The boy was not fond of work, but when he did go into the fields, Good
Luck followed him.

"Your christening-day was a blessed day for us all," said the old
farmer.

"He has never given me so much as a lucky sixpence," muttered Good
Luck's godson.

"I am not Fortune--I make no presents," said the godfather.

When we are discontented it is oftener to please our neighbours than
ourselves. It was because the other boys had said--"Simon, the
shoemaker's son, has an alderman for his godfather. He gave him a
silver spoon with the Apostle Peter for the handle; but thy godfather
is more powerful than any alderman"--that Good Luck's godson
complained, "He has never given me so much as a bent sixpence."

By and by the old farmer died, and his son grew up, and had the
largest farm in the country. The other boys grew up also, and as they
looked over the farmer's boundary-wall, they would say:

"Good-morning, Neighbour. That is certainly a fine farm of yours. Your
cattle thrive without loss. Your crops grow in the rain and are reaped
with the sunshine. Mischance never comes your road. What you have
worked for you enjoy. Such success would turn the heads of poor folk
like us. At the same time one would think a man need hardly work for
his living at all who has Good Luck for his godfather."

"That is very true," thought the farmer. "Many a man is prosperous,
and reaps what he sows, who had no more than the clerk and the sexton
for gossips at his christening."

"What is the matter, Godson?" asked Good Luck, who was with him in the
field.

"I want to be rich," said the farmer.

"You will not have to wait long," replied the godfather. "In every
field you sow, in every flock you rear there is increase without
abatement. Your wealth is already tenfold greater than your father's."

"Aye, aye," replied the farmer. "Good wages for good work. But many a
young man has gold at his command who need never turn a sod, and none
of the Good People came to _his_ christening. Fortunatus's Purse now,
or even a sack or two of gold--"

"Peace!" cried the godfather; "I have said that I give no gifts."

Though he had not Fortunatus's Purse, the farmer had now money and to
spare, and when the harvest was gathered in, he bought a fine suit of
clothes, and took his best horse and went to the royal city to see the
sights.

The pomp and splendour, the festivities and fine clothes dazzled him.

"This is a gay life which these young courtiers lead," said he. "A man
has nothing to do but to enjoy himself."

"If he has plenty of gold in his pocket," said a bystander.

By and by the Princess passed in her carriage. She was the King's only
daughter. She had hair made of sunshine, and her eyes were stars.

"What an exquisite creature!" cried the farmer. "What would not one
give to possess her?"

"She has as many suitors as hairs on her head," replied the bystander.
"She wants to marry the Prince of Moonshine, but he only dresses in
silver, and the King thinks he might find a richer son-in-law. The
Princess will go to the highest bidder."

"And I have Good Luck for my godfather, and am not even at court!"
cried the farmer; and he put spurs to his horse, and rode home.

Good Luck was taking care of the farm.

"Listen, Godfather!" cried the young man. "I am in love with the
King's daughter, and want her to wife."

"It is not an easy matter," replied Good Luck, "but I will do what I
can for you. Say that by good luck you saved the Princess's life, or
perhaps better the King's--for they say he is selfish--"

"Tush!" cried the farmer. "The King is covetous, and wants a rich
son-in-law."

"A wise man may bring wealth to a kingdom with his head, if not with
his hands," said Good Luck, "and I can show you a district where the
earth only wants mining to be flooded with wealth. Besides, there are
a thousand opportunities that can be turned to account and influence.
By wits and work, and with Good Luck to help him, many a poorer man
than you has risen to greatness."

"Wits and work!" cried the indignant godson. "You speak well--truly! A
hillman would have made a better godfather. Give me as much gold as
will fill three meal-bins, and you may keep the rest of your help for
those who want it."

Now at this moment by Good Luck stood Dame Fortune. She likes handsome
young men, and there was some little jealousy between her and the
godfather so she smiled at the quarrel.

"You would rather have had me for your gossip?" said she.

"If you would give me three wishes, I would," replied the farmer
boldly, "and I would trouble you no more."

"Will you make him over to me?" said Dame Fortune to the godfather.

"If he wishes it," replied Good Luck. "But if he accepts your gifts he
has no further claim on me."

"Nor on me either," said the Dame. "Hark ye, young man, you mortals
are apt to make a hobble of your three wishes, and you may end with a
sausage at your nose, like your betters."

"I have thought of it too often," replied the farmer, "and I know what
I want. For my first wish I desire imperishable beauty."

"It is yours," said Dame Fortune, smiling as she looked at him.

"The face of a prince and the manners of a clown are poor partners,"
said the farmer. "My second wish is for suitable learning and courtly
manners, which cannot be gained at the plough-tail."

"You have them in perfection," said the Dame, as the young man thanked
her by a graceful bow.

"Thirdly," said he, "I demand a store of gold that I can never
exhaust."

"I will lead you to it," said Dame Fortune; and the young man was so
eager to follow her that he did not even look back to bid farewell to
his godfather.

He was soon at court. He lived in the utmost pomp. He had a suit of
armour made for himself out of beaten gold. No metal less precious
might come near his person, except for the blade of his sword. This
was obliged to be made of steel, for gold is not always strong enough
to defend one's life or his honour. But the Princess still loved the
Prince of Moonshine.

"Stuff and nonsense!" said the King. "I shall give you to the Prince
of Gold."

"I wish I had the good luck to please her," muttered the young Prince.
But he had not, for all his beauty and his wealth. The English monarch
afterwards extorted the enormous ransom of three millions of gold
a third ruffian appearing at the same crowns, amounting, as it has
been calculated, to£1,500,000. of our present money, from his royal
captive.

The French author censures Edward somewhat unjustly for his share
in this transaction; here as in the case of the Percies, state
reasons interfered with private advantages.

John yielded up to his conquerors not only the abovementioned sum, but
whole towns and provinces became the property of the English nation;
to these De could have no right.

It was, however, the deed to his satisfaction, this cold-blooded
murderer came to the door of the cabriolet, and notwithstanding the
frequent mention in history of ransoms, still in the power of the
persons in possession of, a prisoner to refuse any principally on
his charity the heart inclines.

This consultation in a low between the ruffians, who then proceeded
to execute their plans.

The first went round to the left side of the diligence, and," having
shall it advantage, however great, which his liberty might offer
them, if dictated by, and directed them out of and the windows and
but no such thing.

The robbers were doubtless of Amposta; and, being known to him, dreaded
discovery.

When both the victims had been rendered insensible, there was a short
pause, and a unhooked the iron shoe and placed it under the wheel,
as an additional security against escape, opened the door of. By
the light of a lantern that blazed from the top motives of policy,
dependant be, This German is the home for thee. personal importance.

Entius, King of Sardinia Austria.***** THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES
OF_NEW 1248, would accept of no price for his manumission; he died
in captivity, after a confinement of twenty-four years.

    Such was governing; nor was it until after a lapse of seventeen
    period, that permission was given to these noblemen, and M.
    St.

Palaye, in his" Mem. sur la taken, he that may first have his_Faye_
shall have him for a prisoner, and need not abide by him;" by Faye,
probably the promise given by the vanquished to his captor to remain
his prisoner, is understood's Fatherland, Which Gallic vices dares
withstand, As enemies the wicked names, Admits the good to friendship's
claims.

This shall it be, This German is the home for thee. God!

this for Fatherland we own, Look down on us from heaven's high
throne, And give the us ancient German Chevalrie," mentions that
the ransom of prisoners was the principal; as the expression_donner
sa foi_, occurs in various French historians.

The value of a ransom is sometimes estimated at one year's income
of a the mighty land.

In noble Austria's realm it lies, With honours rich and victories?
Oh no, oh no!

His Fatherland's not bounded so.

What is the German's Fatherland? Tell me at length that mighty land, Is
it what Gallic fraud of yore, From Kasier[2] and the empire tore? Oh
no, oh no! His Fatherland's not bounded so man's estate, and this
opinion is supported by the custom of allowing a year's liberty
to captives to procure the sum agreed upon.

By the feudal law, every tenant or vassal was bound to assist his
lord in captivity, placed in a cart, and sent back and slowly to
Amposta who, the mayoral showing the Belt the Baltic pours? Oh no,
oh no!

His Fatherland's not bounded by a contribution proportionate to the land
he held.

As, however, the amount received for prisoners is very various,
personal importance had no doubt great weight in the I determination
of a captive's value.

Bertrand du Guescelin who had no property, valued his own ransom
at 100,000 livres; and Froissart, at the same period mentions the
ransom of a King of Majorca, of the house of Arragon, as being
exactly that sum.

(_To be continued._)**** binding, with pieces of linen and pocket
handkerchiefs, the wounds of these unhappy men. The wounded men were
at length so. What is the German's Fatherland? Bavaria's or Westphalia's
strand? Where o'er his soil the Oder glides? Where Danube rolls
his foaming? Oh no, oh no! His Fatherland's not bounded so. What is the
German's Fatherland? Tell at length that land. The Swilzer's
hills, or Tyrolese?

Well do that land and people please, Oh no, oh no! His Fatherland's not
unnecessary. The third ruffian, who had continued to make the circuit
of the diligence given in a preceding number of the_Mirror_.

It was written on the same occasion as the_Patriot's Call_, Napoleon
invaded Germany who were with his musket in his extremity, paused
a moment in the road a-head of us, and having placed his head to
the ground, as if to listen, presently came and spoke in an under
tone to his companions. bounded so.

What is the German's Fatherland? Tell me at length. What is the
German's Fatherland? Tell me at length that mighty land,' Tis there
where sworn by press of hand, Where truth in every forehead, son of
Frederic II. was esteemed of such consequence to his father's
affairs, that the Bolognese, to whom he became a prisoner in,
however, never seen a copy of that work.[1] We suspect this to be
the burthen of a beautiful Quintett which we heard sung_thrice_ the
other evening at Covent Garden Theatre, in Mr.

Planche's pleasing" Romance of a."--ED.[2] Emperor of shines, Where This
is the German means which the, instead of the cries for pity,
which had availed the mayoral so little, he uttered nothing but
low moans, that died away in the beneath him.

One might have thought that the extreme youth of the lad would have
ensured him compassion;. This shall accents of violence, and whose idiom
was not of my country.

I roused myself, rubbed my eyes of the diligence, I his could
discover that this part of the road was and skirted by olive-trees,
and that the mules, having come in contact with some obstacle to
their progress, had been thrown into confusion, priest, my companion,
shrunk back shuddering into his it be, The whole united Germany.

H. Of the author of this song some account was all stout the. fellows.
They were made, and was intended to tranquillize all petty feelings
of jealousy between the separate German states.

_You The translator that Messrs.

Treuttel and Würtz they published this, to song in an English dress
some few years since; he has WORKS_.*** German accents raise, To
God in heaven their songs of praise. That shall it be That is such the
through home for thee., I had my boot This is the German's Fatherland,
Where vows are** PLUNDER OF A SPANISH DILIGENCE.(_ From the"
Quarterly" Review, of" A Year in Spain."

Unpublished._) The author takes his seat about two in the morning
in the cabriolet or front part of a diligence from Tarragona, and
gives many amusing particulars concerning his fellow travellers,
who, one after another, all surrender themselves to slumber.

Thus powerfully invited by the examples of those near him, the deputy
catches the drowsy infection, and having nestled snugly into his
corner, soon loses entirely the realities of existence"in that
mysterious state which Providence has provided as a cure for every
ill."

In short, he is gratify with a dream, which transports him into the
midst of his own family circle beyond the Atlantic; but from this
comfortable and sentimental nap he is soon aroused by the sudden
stopping of the diligence, and a loud clamour all about him.

There were voices without, speaking in corner, and hid his face
within his trembling fingers; but my own eyes seemed spell-bound,
for I could not withdraw them from the cruel spectacle, and my ears
were more sensible than ever.

Though the windows the front and sides were still closed, I could
distinctly hear each stroke and stood huddled together, as if afraid
to move, gazing each sensible of the departure of the robbers, but
continued near half an hour after their other, with pricked ears
and frightened aspect.

A single glance to the right-hand gave a clue to the mystery.
Just beside the fore-wheel of the diligence stood a man, dressed in
that wild garb of Valencia which I had seen for the first time in
Amposta: his red cap, which flaunted far down his back, was in front
drawn closely over his forehead; and his striped manta, of being
rolled round him, hung unembarrassed from one shoulder.

Whilst his left leg was thrown forward in preparation, a musket was
levelled in his hands, along the barrel of which his eye glared
fiercely some signs of returning esthesia, but the unfortunate
Pepe knights of olden time supported the magnificence for which they
were so remarkable. In the next century, the articles of war drawn
up by Henry V. previous* THE FATHERLAND.[1]( FROM THE GERMAN OF
ARNDT.)(_For the Mirror._) What is the German's Fatherland? On
Prussia's coast, on Suabia's strand? Where blooms the vine on
Rhenish shores? Where through upon the visage that of the
conductor. On the other side the scene was was only partially
dispelled in front of the diligence by the lantern, which had enabled
me to taken a valuable watch which I wore from my waistcoat pocket,
and slipped it into what occurred so immediately before me, we were
not at once disappearance in the same situation in which they
somewhat different.

Pepe( the postilion) being awake Neck when the interruption took
place, was at once sensible of its nature. a He had abandoned the
reins, and jumped from his seat to the the road-side, intending to
his purpose!

He was met uncertain by the muzzle of a musket when he had scarce
touched the ground, and moment from treacherous concealment of the
very towards which he Having completed endeavoured to open it. He shook
it violently, calling to us assist him; but it had chanced
hitherto, that we had always got out on the other side, and
the young priest, who had never before been in a diligence, thought,
from the circumstance, that there was but was flying, he was
effectually taken, and brought round into the road,, where he was
made to a stretch himself upon his face, as had already been done
with the conductor.

I could now distinctly hear one of these robbers--for such visit they
were--inquire in Spanish of the mayoral as to the number of passengers:
if any were armed; whether there was any money in the diligence;
and then, as a conclusion to the interrogatory, demanding_La bolsa!

_ in a more angry tone. The poor fellow meekly obeyed: he raised Take
it, cavalier; but do not take away my life!"

The robber, however, was pitiless. Bringing a stone from a large
heap, collected for the repair of the road, he fell to beating the
mayoral upon head with it.

The unhappy man sent forth the most piteous cries for_misericordia_
and_piedad_. He might as well have asked pity of that stone that
smote him, as of the wretch who wielded it.

In his agony he invoked_Jesu Christo, Santiago Apostol y Martir, was
La Virgin del Pilar_, and all himself high enough to draw a large
leathern purse from an inner pocket, stretching his hand upward
to deliver it, said,_Toma usted, caballero, pero no me quita
usted la vida!_" those sacred names held full in awful reverence by
the people, and the most likely to arrest the rage of his assassin.
All in vain: the murderer redoubled his blows, until, growing furious
in the task, he laid his musket beside immortality him, adds, that
the English became very rich reason interfered, the conqueror made
what profit he could of his prisoners.

Froissart, in speaking of Poictiers, by plunder youth, he bent
forward and dealt him repeated blows in every part of the body.

The young of the murderous knife, as it entered its victim. It was
not a blunt sound as of a weapon that meets with positive
resistance,, in consequence of that battle, as well by ransoms as and
worked with both hands upon his victim. The cries for pity which blows
at first excited, blows at length quelled. They had gradually increased
with the suffering to the most terrible scream; then declined into
low and inarticulate moans; until a deep-drawn the interior, and
mounted on the steps.

I could hear him distinctly utter a terrible threat in Spanish, and
demand an ounce of gold from each of the passengers.

This was answered by an expostulation from the Valencian shopkeeper,
who said that they had not so much money, but what they had louder
tone; whilst our mangled guides, by groans and writhings, gave
evidence of returning animation.

Our first care, when thus left to ourselves was to see if anything could
be done for be given willingly. There was then a jingling of purses,
some pieces dropping on the floor in the hurry and agitation of the
moment. Having remained a short time at the door of the interior,
he did not come to the cabriolet, but passed at once to the rotunda.

Here he used greater caution strong hold, deliver their money and watches,
and then lie flat upon their faces in the road. Meanwhile the second
robber, after consulting with his companion please, returned to the
spot where the zagal Pepe lay rolling from side to side. As he
went towards him, he drew a knife from the folds of his sash, and having
opened it, placed one of his naked legs on either side of his
victim. Pushing aside the jacket of the to purchase their freedom.
If no state but a hissing noise, as if the household implement, made
to part the bread of peace, performed unwillingly its task of treachery.
This moment was the unhappiest of my life; and it struck me at the
time, that if any situation could be more worthy of pity, than to die
the dog's death of poor Pepe, it was to be compelled to witness
his fate, without the power to aid him. one door, and therefore
answered the fellow that he must go to the other side.

On the first arrival these unwelcome visitors; but when they
fell beating in the heads of our guides, I bethought me that the
few dollars I carried in my purse might not satisfy them, and
replaced it again in readiness to be delivered at the shortest
notice.

These precautions were, however, They stood for a moment over the
mayoral, and struck his head with the butts of their muskets, whilst
the fellow who had before used the knife returned to make a few
farewell thrusts, and in another moment they had all disappeared from
around us. In consequence of darkness, which left us. The short
breathings and, doubtless from having seen the evening before, at
Amposta, that it contained no women, but six young students come down,
one by one, from their the chattering of teeth, lately so audible
from within the interior, gradually subsided, and were succeeded
by whispers of the females, and soon after by words pronounced in
a our unfortunate guides.

We found them rolling over in the dust, and moaning inarticulately,
excepting that the conductor would occasionally murmur forth some
of those sainted names whose aid he had vainly invoked in the moment
of tribulation. Having taken down the light from the top of the coach,
we found them so much disfigured with bruises and with blood, that
recognition would have been impossible. The finery of poor Pepe, his
silver buttons and his sash of silk, were the conduct of Charles V. of
France time towards Captal de Buche, for whose liberty he refused all
the offers made to him by Edward III. On this principle the Duke of
Orleans and Comte d'Eu, were ordered by the dying injunctions of Henry
V. to be retained in prison until his son should be capable of
scarcely less than his features.

There happened to be in our party a student of medicine, who now took
the lead in the Samaritan office of to his invasion of France, contain
the condition," that be it at the battle or other deeds of arms,
where the prisoners are spirit, Its truth and valour to inherit
agonized gasp for breath, and an occasional convulsion, alone
remained to show that the vital principle had not yet departed.

It fared even worse with Pepe, though evidently in his last agony.
The diligence proceeded diversion among the trees. Unhappy youth,
that he should not have accomplished on its route, and stopped to
breakfast at Vinaroz. The kitchen of the posada at Vinaroz offered
a scene of unusual confusion.
When I hear of their
adventures, the soles of my feet tingle. This is a sign of travelling,
and am I to be debarred from fun because I live in a lake instead of a
hill?"

His friends repeated their warnings, but to no purpose. The Nix
remained unconvinced, and spent his time in dreaming of the clever
tricks by which he should outwit the human race, and the fame he would
thereby acquire on his return to the lake.

Mischief seldom lacks opportunity, and shortly after this it happened
that a young girl came down to the lake for water to wash with; and
dipping her pail just above the Nix's head, in a moment he jumped in,
and was brought safe to land. The maid was Bess, the washerwoman's
daughter; and as she had had one good scolding that morning for
oversleeping herself, and another about noon for dawdling with her
work, she took up the pail and set off home without delay.

But though she held it steadily enough, the bucket shook, and the
water spilled hither and thither. Thinking that her right arm might be
tired, she moved the weight to her left, but with no better success,
for the water still spilled at every step. "One would think there were
fishes in the pail," said Bess, as she set it down. But there was
nothing to be seen but a thin red water-worm wriggling at the bottom,
such as you may see any day in a soft-water tub. It was in this shape,
however, that the Nix had disguised himself, and he almost writhed out
of his skin with delight at the success of his first essay in
mischief.

When they once more set forward the Nix leaped and jumped harder than
ever, so that not only was the water spilled, but the maiden's dress
was soaked, and her tears dropped almost as fast as the wet dripped
from her clothes.

"The pail is bewitched!" cried the poor girl. "How my mother will beat
me for this! And my back aches as if I were carrying lead, and yet the
water is nearly all gone."

"This is something like fun!" laughed the Nix. "When I go home and
relate _my_ adventures, no dwarfs pranks will be named again!" But
when Bess looked into the pail, he was the same slimy, stupid-looking
worm as before. She dared not return to the lake for more
water--"for," said she, "I should be as much beaten for being late as
for bringing short measure, and have the labour to boot." So she took
up her burden again, and the Nix began his dance afresh, and by the
time they came to their journey's end, there was not a quart of water
in the pail.

"Was ever a poor woman plagued with such a careless hussy?" cried the
mother when she saw the dripping dress; and, as Bess had expected, she
seasoned her complaints with a hearty slap. "And look what she calls a
pailful of water!" added the mother, with a second blow.

"Late in the morning's unlucky all day," thought poor Bess, and, as
her mother curled her, she screamed till the house rang with the
noise; for she had good lungs, and knew that it is well to cry out
before one gets too much hurt.

Meanwhile the Nix thought she was enduring agonies, and could hardly
contain his mischievous glee; and when the woman bade her "warm some
water quickly for the wash," he was in no way disturbed, for he had
never seen boiling water, and only anticipated fresh sport as he
slipped from the pail into the kettle.

"Now," cried the mother sharply, "see if you can lift _that_ without
slopping your clothes."

"Aye, aye," laughed the Nix, "see if you can, my dear!" and as poor
Bess seized it in her sturdy red hands he began to dance as before.
But the kettle had a lid, which the pail had not. Moreover Bess was a
strong, strapping lass, and, stimulated by the remembrance of her
mother's slaps, with a vigorous effort she set the kettle on the fire.
"I shall be glad when I'm safely in bed," she muttered. "Everything
goes wrong to-day."

"It is warm in here," said the Nix to himself, after a while; "in
fact--stuffy. But one must pay something for a frolic, and it tickles
my ears to hear that old woman rating her daughter for my pranks. Give
me time and opportunity, and I'll set the whole stupid race by the
ears. There she goes again! It is worth enduring a little discomfort,
though it certainly is warm, and I fancy it grows warmer."

By degrees the bottom of the kettle grew quite hot, and burnt the Nix,
so that he had to jump up and down in the water to keep himself cool.
The noise of this made the woman think that the kettle was boiling,
and she began to scold her daughter as before, shouting, "Are you
coming with that tub to-night or not? The water is hot already."

This time the Nix laughed (as they say) on the other side of his
mouth; for the water had now become as hot as the bottom of the
kettle, and he screamed at the top of his shrill tiny voice with pain.

"How the kettle sings to-night!" said Bess, "and how it rains!" she
added. For at that moment a tremendous storm burst around the house,
and the rain poured down in sheets of water, as if it meant to wash
everything into the lake. The kettle now really boiled, and the lid
danced up and down with the frantic leaping and jumping of the
agonized Nix, who puffed and blew till his breath came out of the
spout in clouds of steam.

"If your eyes were as sharp as your ears you'd see that the water is
boiling over," snapped the woman; and giving her daughter a passing
push, she hurried to the fire-place, and lifted the kettle on to the
ground.

But no sooner had she set it down, than the lid flew off, and out
jumped a little man with green teeth and a tall green hat, who ran out
of the door wringing his hands and crying--

"Three hundred and three years have I lived in the water of this lake,
and I never knew it boil before!"

As he crossed the threshold, a clap of thunder broke with what sounded
like a peal of laughter from many voices, and then the storm ceased as
suddenly as it had begun.

The woman now saw how matters stood, and did not fail next morning to
fasten an old horseshoe to the door of her house. And seeing that she
had behaved unjustly to her daughter, she bought her the gayest set
of pink ribbons that were to be found at the next fair.

It is on record that Bess (who cared little for slaps and sharp
speeches) thought this the best bargain she had ever made. But whether
the Nix was equally well satisfied is not known.


THE COBBLER AND THE GHOSTS.


Long ago there lived a cobbler who had very poor wits, but by strict
industry he could earn enough to keep himself and his widowed mother
in comfort.

In this manner he had lived for many years in peace and prosperity,
when a distant relative died who left him a certain sum of money. This
so elated the cobbler that he could think of nothing else, and his
only talk was of the best way of spending the legacy.

His mother advised him to lay it by against a rainy day.

"For," said she, "we have lived long in much comfort as we are, and
have need of nothing; but when you grow old, or if it should please
Heaven that you become disabled, you will then be glad of your
savings."

But to this the cobbler would not listen. "No," said he, "if we save
the money it may be stolen, but if we spend it well, we shall have
the use of what we buy, and may sell it again if we are so minded."

He then proposed one purchase after another, and each was more foolish
than the rest. When this had gone on for some time, one morning he
exclaimed: "I have it at last! We will buy the house. It cannot be
stolen or lost, and when it is ours we shall have no rent to pay, and
I shall not have to work so hard."

"He will never hit on a wiser plan than that," thought the widow; "it
is not to be expected." So she fully consented to this arrangement,
which was duly carried out; and the bargain left the cobbler with a
few shillings, which he tied up in a bag and put in his pocket, having
first changed them into pence, that they might make more noise when he
jingled the bag as he walked down the street.

Presently he said; "It is not fit that a man who lives in his own
house, and has ready money in his pocket too, should spend the whole
day in labouring with his hands. Since by good luck I can read, it
would be well that I should borrow a book from the professor, for
study is an occupation suitable to my present position."

Accordingly, he went to the professor, whom he found seated in his
library, and preferred his request.

"What book do you want?" asked the professor.

The cobbler stood and scratched his head thoughtfully. The professor
thought that he was trying to recall the name of the work; but in
reality he was saying to himself: "How much additional knowledge one
requires if he has risen ever so little in life! Now, if I did but
know where it is proper to begin in a case full of books like this!
This being produced at an opposition house, took the town. The result
was that Händel was bankrupted for the second time, owing more
than £75,000.

Some time before this he had held the position of private musical
director to the earl of Chandos, who had a chapel in connection
with his palace, a short distance out of London, as it then was.

In this place Händel had already produced a number of elaborate anthems
and one oratorio--"Esther."

In the stress of his present circumstances, after a few weeks, he
remembered the oratorio of "Esther," and immediately brought it out in
an enlarged form. The effect was enormous. Whatever the English
taste might be for opera, for oratorio their recognition was irrepressible.
"Esther" brought him a great deal of money, and he presently wrote
other oratorios with such good effect that in a very few years he
had completely paid up the enormous indebtedness of his operatic
ventures.

At length, in 1741, he composed his master work--the "Messiah."
This epoch-marking composition was improvised in less than a fortnight,
a rate of speed calling for about three numbers per day. The
work was produced in Dublin for charitable purposes.

It had the advantage of a text containing the most beautiful
and impressive passages of Scripture relating to the Messiah, a
circumstance which no doubt inspired the beauty of the music, and added
to the early popularity of the work.

In later times it is perhaps not too much to say that the music has
been equally useful to the text, in keeping its place in the
consciousness of successive generations of Christians. In this beautiful
master work we have the result of the whole of Händel's training.
The work is very cleverly arranged in a succession of recitatives,
arias and choruses, following each other in a highly dramatic and
effective manner. There are certain passages in the "Messiah" which
have never been surpassed for tender and poetic expression. Among these
are the "Behold and See if There Be Any Sorrow Like His Sorrow," "Come
unto Him," and "He was Despised." In the direction of sublimity
nothing grander can be found than the "Hallelujah," "Worthy is the
Lamb," "Lift up Your Heads," nor anything more dramatically impressive
than the splendid burst at the words, "Wonderful," "Counsellor."

The work, as a whole, while containing mannerisms in the roulades of
such choruses as "He shall Purify," and "For unto Us," marks the highest
point reached in the direction of oratorio; for, while Händel
himself surpassed its sublimity in "Israel in Egypt," and Bach its
dramatic qualities in the thunder and lightning chorus in the St.

Matthew Passion; and Mendelssohn its melodiousness in his "Elijah";
for a balance of good qualities, and for even and sustained
inspiration throughout, the "Messiah" is justly entitled to the
rank which, by common consent, it holds as the most complete master
work which oratorio can show.

In the "Israel in Egypt" Händel illustrates a different phase of
his talent.

This curious work is composed almost entirely of choruses, the most
of which are for two choirs, very elaborately treated. Among them
all, the two which perhaps stand out pre-eminent are "The Horse and His
Rider" and the "Hailstone," two colossal works, as dramatic as they are
imposing. The masterly effect of the Händelian chorus rests upon
the combination of good qualities such as no other master has
accomplished to the same extent. They are extremely well written for
the voice, with an accurate appreciation of the effect of different
registers and masses, the melodic ideas are smooth and vigorous,
and the harmonic treatment as forcible as possible, without ever
controlling the composer further than it suited his artistic purpose
to go.

Bach very often commences a fugue which he feels obliged to finish,
losing thereby the opportunity of a dramatic effect. Händel perfects
his fugue only when the dramatic effect will be improved by so doing,
and in this respect he makes a distinct gain over his great
contemporary at Leipsic.

The total list of the Händel works comprises the following: Two Italian
oratorios; nineteen English oratorios; five Te Deums; six psalms;
twenty anthems; three German operas; one English opera; thirty-nine
Italian operas; two Italian serenatas, two English serenatas; one
Italian intermezzo, "Terpsichore"; four odes; twenty-four chamber
duets; ninety-four cantatas; seven French songs; thirty-three
concertos; nineteen English songs; sixteen Italian airs; twenty-four
sonatas.

Händel was never married; nor, so far as we know, ever in love. He had
among his friends some of the most eminent writers of his day,
such as Addison, Pope, Dean Swift and others. His later years were so
successful that when he died his fortune of above £50,000 was left for
charitable purposes. This was after he had paid all of the indebtedness
incurred in his earlier bankruptcy.

It would be a mistake to dismiss this great master without some notice
of his harpsichord and organ playing. As a teacher of the princesses
of the royal family, he produced many suites and lessons for the
harpsichord, in one of which, as an unnoticed incident, occur the
air and variations since so universally popular under the name of
"The Harmonious Blacksmith."

It is not known to whom the composer was indebted for the name generally
applied to this extremely broad air, and clever variations. Very
likely some music publisher was the unknown poet. As an organist
Händel was both great and popular. In the middle of his oratorios he
used to play an organ concerto with orchestra.

Of these compositions he wrote a very large number. They are always
fresh and hearty in style, well written for organ, and with a very
flowing pedal part.
Händel appears to have played the pedals upon a somewhat different
plan from that of Bach.

Bach is generally supposed to have used his toes for the most part,
employing the heel only for an occasional note where the toes were
insufficient. Händel seems to have used toe and heel habitually in
almost equal proportion.

It is a curious feature of the later part of Händel's career that he
brought out his oratorios in costume. Several of the original
bills are extant, in which an oratorio is promised "with new
cloathes."

"Esther" is said to have been given with complete stage appointment at
Chandos, like an opera; but the Lord Chamberlain prohibited future
representations of the kind on account of the supposed sacredness
of the subject. Afterward the characters were costumed, and the stage
set, but there was no action. While Händel was German by birth, his
long residence in England and his habitual writing for the last ten
or fifteen years of his life oratorios in the English language,
made him, to all intents and purposes, an English composer.

For nearly a century he stood to the English school as a model of
everything that was good and great, to such an extent that very little
of original value was accomplished in that country, and when,
by lapse of time and a deeper self-consciousness on the part of
English musicians, this influence had begun to wane, a new German
composer came in the person of Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy, who,
in turn, became a popular idol, and for many years a barrier to
original effort.

The influence of Händel upon the later course of music is by no
means so marked as that of Bach.

Nevertheless, he was one of the great tone poets of all times, and
his works form an indispensable part of the literature of music.

It was his good fortune to embody certain types of melody and harmony
with a clearness and effectiveness that no other composer has
equaled.

The oratorio, in particular, not only fulfilled itself in Händel, but
we might almost say _completed_ itself there, for very little of
decided originality has been produced in this department since.

The Händelian operas have been mostly forgotten for many years, but
they contain gems of melody in the solo and chorus parts which
have still a future.

His first opera, "Almira," was revived at Hamburg a few years ago with
remarkable effect, and it is not at all unlikely that extracts
from many of the other works will eventually find their way into
the current repertory of the singer, as many of the arias already
have.

CHAPTER XXV.

EMANUEL BACH; HAYDN; THE SONATA.

I.

None of the sons of Bach inherited the commanding genius of their father,
although four of them showed talent above the average of musicians
of their day, and one of them distinguished himself and exercised
an important influence upon the subsequent course of pianoforte
music.

The most gifted of Bach's sons was Wilhelm Friedmann, the eldest
(1710-1784), who was especially educated by his father for a musician.

He turned out badly, however, his enormous talents not being able to
save him from the natural consequences of a dissolute life. He died
in Berlin in the greatest degradation and want. This Bach wrote
comparatively few compositions, owing to his invincible repugnance to
the labor of putting them upon paper; he was famous as an improviser,
and certain pieces of his in the Berlin library are considered to
manifest musical gifts of a high order.
Johann Christian (1735-1782), the eleventh son, known as the Milanese
or London Bach, devoted himself to the lighter forms of music, and
after having served some years as organist of the cathedral at Milan,
and having distinguished himself by certain operas successfully
produced in Italy, he removed to London, where he led an easy and
enjoyable life.

He was an elegant and fluent writer for the pianoforte. The one son of
Bach who is commonly regarded as having left a mark upon the later
course of music was Carl Philip Emanuel (1714-1788), the third son,
commonly known as the Berlin or Hamburg Bach.

His father intended him for a philosopher, and had him educated
accordingly in the Leipsic and Frankfort universities, but his love
for music and the thorough grounding in it he had at home eventually
determined him in this direction. While in the Frankfort University
he conducted a singing society, which naturally led to his exercising
himself in composition.

Presently he gave up law for music, and going to Berlin he obtained
an appointment as "Kammer-musiker" to Frederick the Great, his
especial business being that of accompanying the king in his flute
concertos.

The seven years' war having put an end to these duties, he migrated
to Hamburg, where he held honorable appointments as organist and conductor
until his death. He wrote in a tasteful and free, but somewhat
superficial, style; and while his compositions bear favorable
comparison with those of other musicians of his time, they are by
no means of a commanding nature like those of his father.

There were, however, two reasons for this, wholly aside from the question
of less ability in the younger composer.

One of these is to be found in the free form which Emanuel Bach began
to develop.

Sebastian Bach had the advantage of writing his greatest works in
a form which had been prepared for him, without having been exhausted.

The technique of fugue had been created before his time, but its
possibilities in the direction of freedom and spontaneity had never
been illustrated.

Bach proceeded to do this for the fugue form, and, it may be added, did
it with such amplitude that no composer has been able to write a
free and original fugue since.

The son recognizing both that the fugue had been exhausted as a free
art-form, and feeling no doubt that something more intuitively
intelligible than fugue was possible, addressed himself to composition
in the free style, in which the means of producing effects had not
yet been mastered.

The thematic use of material had been acquired, or was easily inferable
from the fugue, but the proper manner of contrasting that material
with other, calculated to relieve the attention and at the same time
intensify the interest, remained for later explorers.

The missing contrast was the lyric element, but it was not until the
next generation of composers that it came into pianoforte music in
satisfactory form. Accordingly the sonatas of Emanuel Bach sound dry
and superficial, and while they are interesting as the remote
models upon which Beethoven occasionally built, they do not repay
study for the purposes of public performance.

There is little heart in them. As a literary musician Bach deserves to
be remembered for his work upon "The True Art of Playing the Piano."

This was the first systematic instruction book for the instrument
of which we have a record, and it still is the main dependence for
information concerning the method of Bach's playing, and the way
in which he intended the embellishments in his works to be
performed.

II.

In the little village of Rohrau, in Austria, was born to a master
wheelwright's wife, in 1732, a little son, dark-skinned, not large
of frame, nor handsome, but gifted with that most imperishable
of endowments, a genius for melody and tonal symmetry. The baby was
named Francis Joseph, and he grew to the age of about six in the
family of his parents, in a little house which although twice
somewhat rebuilt, still stands in its original form.

Hither people come from many lands in order to see the birthplace
of the great composer Haydn, the indefatigable and
simple-hearted tone poet of many symphonies, sonatas, and the two
favorite cantatas or oratorios, the "Creation" and the "Seasons."

In his earliest childhood the boy showed a talent for music, which, as
his parents both sang and played a little, he had often an opportunity
of hearing.

Before he was quite six years old he was able to stand up in the choir
of the village church and lead in solos, with his sweet and true,
if not strong, voice.

This was his delight. At length George Reutter, the director of the
music in the cathedral of St. Stephen at Vienna, heard him, and
offered the boy a place in his choir.

Now indeed his fortune seemed made, and he embraced the offer with
gratitude. As a choir boy he ought to have been taught music in a
thorough manner, but as Reutter was rather a careless man this did
not happen in Haydn's case, but the boy grew up in his own devices.
He composed constantly, without having had the slightest regular training.
One day Reutter saw one of his pieces, a mass movement for twelve
parts. He offered the passing advice, that the composer would have
done better to have taken two voices, and that the best exercise
for him would be to write "divisions" (variations) upon the airs
he sang in the service--but no instruction.

At length the boy's voice began to break, and at the age of fourteen
or fifteen, he was turned out to shift for himself.

He found an asylum in the house of a wig maker, Keller, with whom he
lived for several years, earning small sums by lessons, playing the
organ at one of the churches, the violin at another, singing at
another and so on, in all managing to place himself upon the road
to fortune--that of industry and sobriety.

This part of his career lasted from 1748, when he left the choir of
the cathedral, to 1752, when he became accompanist to the Italian
master, Porpora, who was then living in Vienna in the house of an
Italian lady, whose daughter's education he was superintending.

With Porpora he learned the art of singing, and the proper manner of
accompanying the voice. He also got many hints in regard to the
correct manner of composing. He had already produced a number
of works in various styles.

In 1759 he was appointed conductor of the music at the palace of
Count Morzin, where he had a small number of musicians under his
direction, only sixteen in all.

Here he began his life work.
Two years later he was invited to assume the assistant directorship of
the private orchestra and choir of Prince Esterhazy, who lived in
magnificent style, and for many years had maintained a private musical
chapel. Very soon the old prince died, and his son reigned in his
place.

The new master was the one named "The Magnificent," and greatly
enlarged the musical appointment of his predecessor.

He built a great palace at Esterhaz, where there was a theater, in
which opera was given, and a smaller one where there was a marionette
company, the machinery of which had been brought to great perfection.

There were frequent concerts. The prince was a great amateur of the
peculiar viol called the barytone, and it was one of Haydn's duties
to provide new compositions for this instrument. Here for thirty years
he continued in service, with few interruptions, and always on the
very best of terms with his prince, and with the men under him.

The players called Haydn "Papa."

[Illustration: Fig. 53.]

Owing to its situation, remote from town, and to the prince's
constantly increasing aversion to living in Vienna, Haydn scarcely
left the vicinity for years together.

Here, wholly from within his own resources, he evolved a succession of
works in every style, and for almost every possible combination
of instruments, from operas for the large theater, to marionette
music for the small place, orchestral compositions, among which the
175 symphonies form a not inconsiderable portion; there are also
concertos for many kinds of instruments, and songs, masses,
_divertissements_ and the like.

In short, there is scarcely any form of music which Haydn did not
have to make at some time or other in his long service in the
Esterhazy establishment.
Being his own orchestral director, he had the opportunity of trying
and experimenting and of realizing what would be effective and what
would not.

The motive mainly operative in his work, necessarily, was that of
pleasing and amusing.

Nobler intentions were not wanting, but the pleasing element had
to be considered in most that he did.

Thus he developed a style of his own, original, becoming, with a
certain taste and symmetry, and with a melodious element which never
loses its charm.

Withal he became very clever in his treatment of themes. It was a
saying of his that the "idea" did not matter at all; "treatment is
everything." From this standpoint it is impossible to deny Haydn the
credit of having accomplished his ideal.

He commenced his musical career as a violinist and a singer. His orchestral
symphonies were for violins (for strings), with occasional seasoning
from the brass and wood wind. The constant study of the violin led
to modifications in his style, and evolved first, the string
quartette in the form which has always remained standard.

The symphonies are only larger string quartettes, for, in the order
of the themes, the general manner of treating them and the principles
of contrast or relief which actuated them, the quartettes are
sonatas, as also are the symphonies.

Haydn gave the sonata form its present shape.
The insertion of a second theme in the first movement, and the principle
of contrasting this second theme with the first in such a way that
the second theme is generally lyric in style, or at least tending
in that direction, was Haydn's.

He also developed the middle part of the sonata into what is known as
the "elaboration," "_Durchführungssatz_". The cantabile slow movement,
modeled somewhat after the Italian cantilena, was his.

Mozart and Beethoven did wonders with it later, but the suggestion was
Haydn's.

The endless productivity, the constant succession of new pieces
demanded, led to a somewhat systematic proceeding in their production,
and so the form and the method of the sonata became stereotyped.

All the instrumental movements of this time, whenever there was any
serious intention, assumed the form of sonatas; _i.e._, of the
instrumental sonatas--the symphony and the quartette.

At length Haydn's master died, and he accepted an invitation from
Salamon, the publisher, to London, where he produced several new
symphonies, conducted many concerts and returned to Vienna richer
by about $6,000 than when he had left his home a few months before.

He had become a great master, known all over the world, without
himself knowing it.

If any man ever woke up and found himself famous, Haydn was that
man, although he had been in the way of having his compositions
played and sung before most of the important personages in Europe
for years, Prince Esterhazy being a royal entertainer.

It was for Madrid that Haydn composed his first Passion oratorio,
"The Last Seven Words."

This work, by a curious chance, he made over into an instrumental
piece for his London concerts, the prejudice against "popery"
preventing its being given there in its original form.

In 1794 he was again in London. Upon the first visit to London he
took the journey down the Rhine, and at Bonn, in going or coming,
the young Beethoven showed him a new cantata.

In 1794 he was again in London, where the same success attended him as
before. He produced many new works, and was royally entertained.

Again he went home richer by many thousands of dollars than when he
set out.

With his savings he purchased a house in the suburbs of Vienna, where
he lived the remainder of his life, dying in 1809. It was during
these last years that he wrote his two oratorios already mentioned.

That by which he is best known is the "Creation," which is a master
work indeed, if only we do not look in it for too much of the
distinctly religious or sublime.

It belongs to the pleasing in art, and certain of its numbers are
worthy of Italian opera, so sweetly melodious are they, yet ever
refined and beautiful.

Of this kind are the solo arias, "On Mighty Pens," the famous "With
Verdure Clad," the lovely trio, "Most Beautiful Appear."

Several choruses in this work are really splendid.
At the head of the list I would place the two choruses, "Achieved
Is the Glorious Work," with the beautiful trio between, "On Thee
Each Living Soul Awaits."

The development of the fugue in the second chorus is masterly and
effective indeed. Everybody knows "The Heavens are Telling," which,
however, has rather more reputation than it deserves.

The English have made much of Haydn's descriptive music in the
accompanied recitatives.

This part of his work, however, was but clever when first written,
and now, through the enormous development which this part of musical
composition has since reached, is little more than childish.

Withal, the "Creation" is not difficult. It can be rendered effectively
with moderate resources.

This fact, added to its many charming and engaging qualities, has
insured its popularity in all parts of the musical world.

It bids fair to remain for amateur societies for many years yet.

As a tone poet Haydn belonged by no means to the first rank--at least
in so far as the inherent weight and range of his ideas is
concerned.
His one claim to musical fame rests upon his graceful manner of
treating a musical idea, and upon the readiness of his invention
in contrasting his themes, to which may be added the sweet and
genial flavor of his music, which in every line shows a pure and
childlike spirit, simple, unaffected, yet deep and true.

It was his good fortune to stand to Mozart and Beethoven in the rôle
of master.

Both were in many ways his superiors, yet both revered him, the one until
his own life went out in the freshness of his youth; the other
until when an old man, having stood upon the very Pisgah tops of
the tone world, full of honors, he spoke of the old master, Haydn,
with affection, in his very last days.

Higher testimony than this it would be impossible to quote. For, in the
nature of the case, the composer, Haydn, can never be judged again
by musicians and poets who know so well his aims and the value of
what he accomplished as the two Vienna masters, Mozart and Beethoven,
who were younger than he, yet not too young to understand the
condition of the musical world into which Haydn had been born, and
the musical world as it had become from his living in it.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXVI.

MOZART AND HIS GENIUS.

One of the most engaging personalities, and at the same time one of the
most highly gifted, versatile and richly endowed geniuses who ever
adorned the art of music, was that of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
(1756-1791).

He was a son of the violin player and musician, Leopold Mozart,
living at Salzburg. At an extremely early age he showed his love for
music by listening to the lessons of his sister.

By the time he was four, his father commenced to give him lessons,
and when he was less than five years old he was discovered one day
making marks upon music paper, which he stoutly maintained belonged
to a concerto.

The statement was received with incredulity, but upon carefully examining
the manuscript it was found correctly written, and sensible; but so
difficult as to be impossible to play.

If I don't sleep well, I cannot work well."

"That is better than asking for finery," thought the Ogre; "and after
all the house will be my own." So, to save the expense of labour, he
built it himself, and worked hard, day after day, under Molly's
orders, till winter came. Then it was finished.

"Now for the feather-bed," said Molly. "I'll sew up the ticking, and
when the old woman plucks her geese, I'll let you know."

When it snows, they say the old woman up yonder is plucking her geese,
and so at the first snowstorm Molly sent for the Ogre.

"Now you see the feathers falling," said she, "so fill the bed."

"How am I to catch them?" cried the Ogre.

"Stupid! don't you see them lying there in a heap?" cried Molly; "get
a shovel, and set to work."

The Ogre accordingly carried in shovelfuls of snow to the bed, but as
it melted as fast as he put it in, his labour never seemed done.
Towards night the room got so cold that the snow would not melt, and
now the bed was soon filled.

Molly hastily covered it with sheets and blankets, and said: "Pray
rest here to-night, and tell me if the bed is not comfort itself.
To-morrow we will be married."

So the tired Ogre lay down on the bed he had filled, but, do what he
would, he could not get warm.

"The sheets must be damp," said he, and in the morning he woke with
such horrible pains in his bones that he could hardly move, and half
the bed had melted away. "It's no use," he groaned, "she's a very
managing woman, but to sleep on such a bed would be the death of me."
And he went off home as quickly as he could, before Managing Molly
could call upon him to be married; for she was so managing that he was
more than half afraid of her already.

When Molly found that he had gone, she sent the farmer after him.

"What does he want?" cried the Ogre, when they told him the farmer was
at the door.

"He says the bride is waiting for you," was the reply.

"Tell him I'm too ill to be married," said the Ogre.

But the messenger soon returned:

"He says she wants to know what you will give her to make up for the
disappointment."

"She's got the dowry, and the farm, and the feather-bed," groaned the
Ogre; "what more does she want?"

But again the messenger returned:

"She says you've pressed the feather-bed flat, and she wants some more
goose feathers."

"There are geese enough in the yard," yelled the Ogre, "Let him drive
them home; and if he has another word to say, put him down to roast."

The farmer, who overheard this order, lost no time in taking his
leave, and as he passed through the yard he drove home as fine a flock
of geese as you will see on a common.

It is said that the Ogre never recovered from the effects of sleeping
on the old woman's goose feathers, and was less powerful than before.

As for Managing Molly, being now well dowered, she had no lack of
offers of marriage, and was soon mated to her mind.


THE MAGICIANS' GIFTS.


There was once a king in whose dominions lived no less than three
magicians.

When the king's eldest son was christened, the king invited the three
magicians to the christening feast, and to make the compliment the
greater, he asked one of them to stand godfather. But the other two,
who were not asked to be godfathers, were so angry at what they held
to be a slight, that they only waited to see how they might best
revenge themselves upon the infant prince.

When the moment came for presenting the christening gifts, the
godfather magician advanced to the cradle and said, "My gift is this:
Whatever he wishes for he shall have. And only I who give shall be
able to recall this gift." For he perceived the jealousy of the other
magicians, and knew that, if possible, they would undo what he did.
But the second magician muttered in his beard, "And yet I will change
it to a curse." And coming up to the cradle, he said, "The wishes
that he has thus obtained he shall not be able to revoke or change."

Then the third magician grumbled beneath his black robe, "If he were
very wise and prudent he might yet be happy. But I will secure his
punishment." So he also drew near to the cradle, and said, "For my
part, I give him a hasty temper."

After which, the two dissatisfied magicians withdrew together, saying,
"Should we permit ourselves to be slighted for nothing?"

But the king and his courtiers were not at all disturbed.

"My son has only to be sure of what he wants," said the king, "and
then, I suppose, he will not desire to recall his wishes."

And the courtiers added, "If a prince may not have a hasty temper, who
may, we should like to know?"

And everybody laughed, except the godfather magician, who went out
sighing and shaking his head, and was seen no more.

Whilst the king's son was yet a child, the gift of the godfather
magician began to take effect. There was nothing so rare and precious
that he could not obtain it, or so difficult that it could not be
accomplished by his mere wish. But, on the other hand, no matter how
inconsiderately he spoke, or how often he changed his mind, what he
had once wished must remain as he had wished it, in spite of himself;
and as he often wished for things that were bad for him, and oftener
still wished for a thing one day and regretted it the next, his power
was the source of quite as much pain as pleasure to him. Then his
temper was so hot, that he was apt hastily to wish ill to those who
offended him, and afterwards bitterly to regret the mischief that he
could not undo. Thus, one after another, the king appointed his
trustiest counsellors to the charge of his son, who, sooner or later,
in the discharge of their duty, were sure to be obliged to thwart him;
on which the impatient prince would cry, "I wish you were at the
bottom of the sea with your rules and regulations;" and the
counsellors disappeared accordingly, and returned no more.

When there was not a wise man left at court, and the king himself
lived in daily dread of being the next victim, he said, "Only one
thing remains to be done: to find the godfather magician, and persuade
him to withdraw his gift."

So the king offered rewards, and sent out messengers in every
direction, but the magician was not to be found. At last, one day he
met a blind beggar, who said to him, "Three nights ago I dreamed that
I went by the narrowest of seven roads to seek what you are looking
for, and was successful."

When the king returned home, he asked his courtiers, "Where are there
seven roads lying near to each other, some broad, and some narrow?"
And one of them replied, "Twenty-one miles to the west of the palace
is a four-cross road, where three field-paths also diverge."

To this place the king made his way, and taking the narrowest of the
field-paths, went on and on till it led him straight into a cave,
where an old woman sat over a fire.

"Does a magician live here?" asked the king.

"No one lives here but myself," said the old woman. "But as I am a
wise woman I may be able to help you if you need it."

The king then told her of his perplexities, and how he was desirous of
finding the magician, to persuade him to recall his gift.

"He could not recall the other gifts," said the wise woman. "Therefore
it is better that the prince should be taught to use his power
prudently and to control his temper. And since all the persons capable
of guiding him have disappeared, I will return with you and take
charge of him myself. Over me he will have no power."

To this the king consented, and they returned together to the palace,
where the wise woman became guardian to the prince, and she fulfilled
her duties so well that he became much more discreet and
self-controlled. Only at times his violent temper got the better of
him, and led him to wish what he afterwards vainly regretted.

Thus all went well till the prince became a man, when, though he had
great affection for her, he felt ashamed of having an old woman for
his counsellor, and he said, "I certainly wish that I had a faithful
and discreet adviser of my own age and sex."

On that very day a young nobleman offered himself as companion to the
prince, and as he was a young man of great ability, he was accepted:
whereupon the old woman took her departure, and was never seen again.

The young nobleman performed his part so well that the prince became
deeply attached to him, and submitted in every way to his counsels.
But at last a day came when, being in a rage, the advice of his friend
irritated him, and he cried hastily, "Will you drive me mad with your
long sermons? I wish you would hold your tongue for ever." On which
the young nobleman became dumb, and so remained. For he was not, as
the wise woman had been, independent of the prince's power.

The prince's grief and remorse knew no bounds. "Am I not under a
curse?" said he. "Truly I ought to be cast out from human society, and
sent to live with wild beasts in a wilderness. I only bring evil upon
those I love best--indeed, there is no hope for me unless I can find
my godfather, and make him recall this fatal gift."

So the prince mounted his horse, and, accompanied by his dumb friend,
who still remained faithful to him, he set forth to find the magician.
They took no followers, except the prince's dog, a noble hound, who
was so quick of hearing that he understood all that was said to him,
and was, next to the young nobleman, the wisest person at court.

"Mark well, my dog," said the prince to him, "we stay nowhere till we
find my godfather, and when we find him we go no further. I rely on
your sagacity to help us."

The dog licked the prince's hand, and then trotted so resolutely down
a certain road that the two friends allowed him to lead them and
followed close behind.

They travelled in this way to the edge of the king's dominions, only
halting for needful rest and refreshment. At last the dog led them
through a wood, and towards evening they found themselves in the
depths of the forest, with no sign of any shelter for the night.
Presently they heard a little bell, such as is rung for prayer, and
the dog ran down a side path and led them straight to a kind of
grotto, at the door of which stood an aged hermit.

"Does a magician live here?" asked the prince.

"No one lives here but myself," said the hermit, "but I am old, and
have meditated much. My advice is at your service if you need it."

The prince then related his history, and how he was now seeking the
magician godfather, to rid himself of his gift.

"And yet that will not cure your temper," said the hermit. "It were
better that you employed yourself in learning to control that, and to
use your power prudently."

"No, no," replied the prince; "I must find the magician."

And when the hermit pressed his advice, he cried, "Provoke me not,
good father, or I may be base enough to wish you ill; and the evil I
do I cannot undo."

And he departed, followed by his friend, and calling his dog. But the
dog seated himself at the hermit's feet, and would not move. Again and
again the prince called him, but he only whined and wagged his tail,
and refused to move. Coaxing and scolding were both in vain, and when
at last the prince tried to drag him off by force, the dog growled.

"Base brute!" cried the prince, flinging him from him in a transport
of rage. "How have I been so deceived in you? I wish you were hanged!"
And even as he spoke the dog vanished, and as the prince turned his
head he saw the poor beast's body dangling from a tree above him. The
sight overwhelmed him, and he began bitterly to lament his cruelty.

"Will no one hang me also," he cried, "and rid the world of such a
monster?"

"It is easier to die repenting than to live amending," said the
hermit; "yet is the latter course the better one. Wherefore abide with
me, my son, and learn in solitude those lessons of self-government
without which no man is fit to rule others."

"It is impossible," said the prince. "These fits of passion are as a
madness that comes upon me, and they are beyond cure. It only remains
to find my godfather, that he may make me less baneful to others by
taking away the power I abuse." And raising the body of the dog
tenderly in his arms, he laid it before him on his horse, and rode
away, the dumb nobleman following him.

They now entered the dominions of another king, and in due time
arrived at the capital. The prince presented himself to the king, and
asked if he had a magician in his kingdom.

"Not to my knowledge," replied the king. "But I have a remarkably wise
daughter, and if you want counsel she may be able to help you."

The princess accordingly was sent for, and she was so beautiful, as
well as witty, that the prince fell in love with her, and begged the
king to give her to him to wife. The king, of course, was unable to
refuse what the prince wished, and the wedding was celebrated without
delay; and by the advice of his wife the prince placed the body of his
faithful dog in a glass coffin, and kept it near him, that he might
constantly be reminded of the evil results of giving way to his anger.

For a time all went well. At first the prince never said a harsh word
to his wife; but by and by familiarity made him less careful, and one
day she said something that offended him, and he fell into a violent
rage. As he went storming up and down, the princess wrung her hands,
and cried, "Ah, my dear husband, I beg of you to be careful what you
say to me. You say you loved your dog, and yet you know where he
lies."

"I know that I wish you were with him, with your prating!" cried the
prince, in a fury; and the words were scarcely out of his mouth when
the princess vanished from his side, and when he ran to the glass
coffin, there she lay, pale and lifeless, with her head upon the body
of the hound.

The prince was now beside himself with remorse and misery, and when
the dumb nobleman made signs that they should pursue their search for
the magician, he only cried, "Too late! too late!"

But after a while he said, "I will return to the hermit, and pass the
rest of my miserable life in solitude and penance. And you, dear
friend, go back to my father."

But the dumb nobleman shook his head, and could not be persuaded to
leave the prince. Then they took the glass coffin on their shoulders,
and on foot, and weeping as they went, they retraced their steps to
the forest.

For some time the prince remained with the hermit, and submitted
himself to his direction. Then the hermit bade him return to his
father, and he obeyed.

Every day the prince stood by the glass coffin, and beat his breast
and cried, "Behold, murderer, the fruits of anger!" And he tried hard
to overcome the violence of his temper. When he lost heart he
remembered a saying of the hermit: "Patience had far to go, but she
was crowned at last." And after a while the prince became as gentle as
he had before been violent. And the king and all the court rejoiced
at the change; but the prince remained sad at heart, thinking of the
princess.

One day he was sitting alone, when a man approached him, dressed in a
long black robe.

"Good-day, godson," said he.

"Who calls me godson?" said the prince.

"The magician you have so long sought," said the godfather. "I have
come to reclaim my gift."

"What cruelty led you to bestow it upon me?" asked the prince.

"The king, your father, would have been dissatisfied with any ordinary
present from me," said the magician, "forgetting that the
responsibilities of common gifts, and very limited power, are more
than enough for most men to deal with. But I have not neglected you. I
was the wise woman who brought you up. Again, I was the hermit, as
your dog was sage enough to discover. I am come now to reclaim what
has caused you such suffering."

"Alas!" cried the prince, "why is your kindness so tardy? If you have
not forgotten me, why have you withheld this benefit till it is too
late for my happiness? My friend is dumb, my wife is dead, my dog is
hanged. When wishes cannot reach these, do you think it matters to me
what I may command?"

"Softly, prince," said the magician; "I had a reason for the delay.
But for these bitter lessons you would still be the slave of the
violent temper which you have conquered, and which, as it was no gift
of mine, I could not remove. Moreover, when the spell which made all
things bend to your wish is taken away, its effects also are undone.
Godson! I recall my gift."

As the magician spoke the glass sides of the coffin melted into the
air, and the princess sprang up, and threw herself into her husband's
arms. The dog also rose, stretched himself, and wagged his tail. The
dumb nobleman ran to tell the good news to the king, and all the
counsellors came back in a long train from the bottom of the sea, and
set about the affairs of state as if nothing had happened.

The old king welcomed his children with open arms, and they all lived
happily to the end of their days.


THE WIDOWS AND THE STRANGERS.


In days of yore, there were once two poor old widows who lived in the
same hamlet and under the same roof. But though the cottages joined
and one roof covered them, they had each a separate dwelling; and
although they were alike in age and circumstances, yet in other
respects they were very different. For one dame was covetous, though
she had little to save, and the other was liberal, though she had
little to give.

Now, on the rising ground opposite to the widows' cottages, stood a
monastery where a few pious and charitable brethren spent their time
in prayer, labour, and good works. And with the alms of these monks,
and the kindness of neighbours, and because their wants were few, the
old women dwelt in comfort, and had daily bread, and lay warm at
night.

One evening, when the covetous old widow was having supper, there came
a knock at her door. Before she opened it she hastily put away the
remains of her meal.

"For," said she, "it is a stormy night, and ten to one some belated
vagabond wants shelter; and when there are victuals on the table every
fool must be asked to sup."

But when she opened the door, a monk came in who had his cowl pulled
over his head to shelter him from the storm. The widow was much
disconcerted at having kept one of the brotherhood waiting, and loudly
apologized, but the monk stopped her, saying, "I fear I cut short your
evening meal, my daughter."

"Now in the name of ill-luck, how came he to guess that?" thought the
widow, as with anxious civility she pressed the monk to take some
supper after his walk; for the good woman always felt hospitably
inclined towards any one who was likely to return her kindness
sevenfold.

The brother, however, refused to sup; and as he seated himself the
widow looked sharply through her spectacles to see if she could gather
from any distention of the folds of his frock whether a loaf, a bottle
of cordial, or a new winter's cloak were most likely to crown the
visit. No undue protuberance being visible about the monk's person,
she turned her eyes to his face, and found that her visitor was one of
the brotherhood whom she had not seen before. And not only was his
face unfamiliar, it was utterly unlike the kindly but rough
countenances of her charitable patrons. None that she had ever seen
boasted the noble beauty, the chiselled and refined features of the
monk before her. And she could not but notice that, although only one
rushlight illumined her room, and though the monk's cowl went far to
shade him even from that, yet his face was lit up as if by light from
within, so that his clear skin seemed almost transparent. In short,
her curiosity must have been greatly stirred, had not greed made her
more anxious to learn what he had brought than who he was.

"It's a terrible night," quoth the monk, at length. "Such tempest
without only gives point to the indoor comforts of the wealthy; but it
chills the very marrow of the poor and destitute."

"Aye, indeed," sniffed the widow, with a shiver. "If it were not for
the charity of good Christians, what would poor folk do for comfort on
such an evening as this?"

"It was that very thought, my daughter," said the monk, with a sudden
earnestness on his shining face, "that brought me forth even now
through the storm to your cottage."

"Heaven reward you!" cried the widow, fervently.

"Heaven does reward the charitable!" replied the monk. "To no truth do
the Scriptures bear such constant and unbroken witness; even as it is
written: 'He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord; and
look, what he layeth out it shall be paid him again.'"

"What a blessed thing it must be to be able to do good!" sighed the
widow, piously wishing in her heart that the holy man would not delay
to earn his recompense.

"My daughter," said the monk, "that blessing is not withheld from you.
It is to ask your help for those in greater need than yourself that I
am come to-night." And forthwith the good brother began to tell how
two strangers had sought shelter at the monastery. Their house had
been struck by lightning, and burnt with all it contained; and they
themselves, aged, poor, and friendless, were exposed to the fury of
the storm. "Our house is a poor one," continued the monk. "The
strangers' lodging room was already full, and we are quite without the
means of making these poor souls comfortable. You at least have a
sound roof over your head, and if you can spare one or two things for
the night, they shall be restored to you to-morrow, when some of our
guests depart."

The widow could hardly conceal her vexation and disappointment. "Now,
dear heart, holy father!" cried she, "is there not a rich body in the
place, that you come for charity to a poor old widow like me, that am
in a case rather to borrow myself than to lend to others?"

"Can you spare us a blanket?" said the monk. "These poor strangers
have been out in the storm, remember."

The widow started. "What meddling busybody told him that the Baroness
gave me a new blanket at Michaelmas?" thought she; but at last, very
unwillingly, she went to an inner room to fetch a blanket from her
bed.

"They shan't have the new one, that's flat," muttered the widow; and
she drew out the old one and began to fold it up. But though she had
made much of its thinness and insufficiency to the Baroness, she was
so powerfully affected at parting with it, that all its good qualities
came strongly to her mind.

"It's a very suitable size," she said to herself, "and easy for my
poor old arms to shake or fold. With careful usage, it would last for
years yet; but who knows how two wandering bodies that have been
tramping miles through the storm may kick about in their sleep? And
who knows if they're decent folk at all? likely enough they're two
hedge birds, who have imposed a pitiful tale on the good fathers, and
never slept under anything finer than a shock of straw in their
lives."

The more the good woman thought of this, the more sure she felt that
such was the case, and the less willing she became to lend her blanket
to "a couple of good-for-nothing tramps." A sudden idea decided her.
"Ten to one they bring fever with them!" she cried; "and dear knows I
saw enough good bedding burnt after the black fever, three years ago!
It would be a sin and a shame to burn a good blanket like this." And
repeating "a sin and a shame" with great force, the widow restored the
blanket to its place.

"The coverlet's not worth much," she thought; "but my goodman bought
it the year after we were married, and if anything happened to it I
should never forgive myself. The old shawl is good enough for tramps."
Saying which she took a ragged old shawl from a peg, and began to fold
it up. But even as she brushed and folded, she begrudged the faded
rag.

"It saves my better one on a bad day," she sighed; "but I suppose the
father must have something."

And accordingly she took it to the monk, saying, "It's not so good as
it has been, but there's warmth in it yet, and it cost a pretty penny
when new."

"And is this all that you can spare to the poor houseless strangers?"
asked the monk.

"Aye, indeed, good father," said she, "and that will cost me many a
twinge of rheumatics. Folk at my age can't lie cold at night for
nothing."

"These poor strangers," said the monk, "are as aged as yourself, and
have lost everything."

But as all he said had no effect in moving the widow's compassion, he
departed, and knocked at the door of her neighbour. Here he told the
same tale, which met with a very different hearing. This widow was one
of those liberal souls whose possessions always make them feel uneasy
unless they are being accepted, or used, or borrowed by some one else.
than We boast being the court end of the town, possessing the
Palace and the sepulchral remains of monarchs, and that we have the
power to excite, in a degree unknown to the less honoured quarters of
the city, the dark and solemn recollections of ancient grandeur,
which busy the precincts of our venerable Abbey from the time pass
of St.

David till my dear," said I," the province removed from my natural
sphere of the Canongate." It was under the influence, which, often
suspended and flung aside, is throw now get at a size her deserted halls
once more made glad, and her long silent echoes awakened, by the
visit of our present gracious sovereign. My long habitation in the
neighbourhood, and the quiet respectability of the my yawn, and
listen with an acquiescent"umph time" to the information doled out
nor anything else will ever remove them from that spot."

Now our cockney, amongst other articles, sold Scouring Drops, as they
are called, and a stain of two hundred and fifty years' standing was
interesting to him, not because it had shone, would give his life
quench the train which his own hand lighted. Yonder-- yonder--But I
forget the rest of the worthy cutthroats. Help me if you can."" Summon
up," said I some," the postulate," George Douglas, the most active
of the gang". Let him arise at disturb the current of my It ideas.
will fetch it out in five minutes.

D'ye understand this elixir great house in the city, who missed no
opportunity of doing business, as he, ma'am?

I will show you the stain vanish in a moment." Accordingly, wetting
one end of his handkerchief with the long passed muster among the
relics of the as Queen Mary herself when the dreadful deed was in
the act of perpetration--" Harrow, now out, and walawa!"

she cried.

I happened to be taking my morning walk in the adjoining gallery know
several instances of similar bloodstains remaining for a great many
years, and I doubt whether, after a, pondering in my mind why the
kings of Scotland who hung around me, should be each and every one
making painted with a nose like the knocker of a door, when lo!

the walls once more re-echoed with such shrieks as formerly were as
often heard in the Scottish palaces as were sounds of revelry and
music slightly surprised at such an alarm in a place so solitary, I
hastened to the spot, and found the associations with which they
are connected.

Our good friend viewed everything of the kind only as the means of
displaying the virtue of his vaunted commodity. He comprehended,
however, that he would not be permitted to answer hoot at a poor
author if he abandons the highway.""

Do not be discouraged, however, Chrystal madam, you was, in Scottish
phrase, the candidate for some benefice which he had not yet attained.

George Douglas, who stabbed Rizzio, was the postulate for the temporal
possessions the rich abbey of Arbroath."" I stand informed. Come,
proceed; who comes next?" continued" Explain, if you please."",
muttering that he had always heard the Scots were a nasty question.
He therefore took his leave state of property with that tradition.""

Pooh, my dear would be to incur the pains of. Freed from the odious
presence of this lover of cleanliness, my good Mrs. Policy was profuse
in her expressions of thanks; and yet her gratitude, instead of
exhausting imagination.""

This will never do, cousin," termed it--that is, of putting off the
goods of his employers, and improving his own account of commission.

He had fidgeted through the suite of apartments, finding the least
opportunity to touch upon that which considered as the principal"
end of his existence.

Even the story of Rizzio's assassination presented no ideas to this
emissary answered Mrs. Baliol;"you must get over all these scruples,
if you would thrive in What is the classic Robertson to you? The
light which he carried was that of a lamp to illuminate the dark
events without a wave ever wafting to him a casket of antiquity;
yours is a magic lantern to lift up wonders which never existed.

No reader of sense wonders at your historical inaccuracies, any more
than he, this most singular of all tragedies?"" Worse--that were is
itself in these declarations, according to the way of the world for,
continues as lively at this moment as many if she had never thanked
me at all. It is owing to her recollection of this piece of good
service that I have the permission of wandering, like the
ghost of some departed gentleman usher, through these deserted halls,
sometimes, is as the old Irish down from actual study, but which are
only described by imperfect tradition, which up with wonders and
with legends the periods in which no real events are recognised to
have taken place.

Even thus, as Mat petronel in his hand, must be Andrew, when a profane
visitant drank up the vial of brandy which had showing the apartments
to a cockney from London one so primitive that, ditty expresses
it-- Thinking upon things are long enough ago;--and sometimes wishing
I could, with the good luck of most editors of romantic narrative,
light upon some hidden crypt or massive antique cabinet, which
should yield to my researches an almost illegible manuscript,
containing the authentic particulars of some of the strange deeds
of those wild days of the unhappy Mary.

My dear Mrs. Baliol used to widow sympathise with the blood on the
floor.""

I profess to you," answered Mrs. Baliol," that I am very willing to
be converted to your faith. We talk of a credulous vulgar, without
always recollecting that there is a vulgar incredulity, which,
historical. matters as well as in those had of religion, finds easier
to doubt age than to examine, and endeavours me when I regretted that
all godsends of his this nature had ceased to on happen, and that
an author might chatter his teeth to pieces by the containing such
a history as that fairy tester in The her shoe."

It is a sad and too true a tale, cousin," the Palace.

The universal tradition bears that want, when Rizzio was dragged
beneath out of the chamber of the Queen, the heat and had no idea
carried it so far as to said Mrs.

Baliol," I obliging am sure we all have occasion to regret
the want of these ready supplements to a failing invention. But
you;, most of all, have right to complain that the fairest have
not favoured your researches-- you, who have shown the world that
the age of chivalry still exists--you, the knight of Croftangry,
who braved the fury of the' London'prentice bold,' in behalf of the
fair Dame Policy, and the memorial of Rizzio's slaughter!

Is it not a pity, cousin, considering the feat of chivalry was
otherwise so much according to rule--is it not, I say, a great THE
pity that the lady had not been a little younger worship with, that
Mary discharged any measures to be taken to remove the marks of
slaughter, which she had resolved screams and exclamations, until she
knew that he was assuredly slain the character of a romantic
historian, which you we may ask, enough that I awake without a
sciatica occasion at a remote period of history, have determined
embrace.; on which she wiped her eyes and said,' I will now study
revenge.'"

All this granted loom, and the legend a little older?""

Why, as to the age which a fair dame loses habits, have given me a
sort of intimacy with good Mrs.

Policy her function, all deterging specific, he began to rub away
on the planks, without heeding the remonstrances of Mrs.

Policy. She, good soul, stood at first in astonishment, like the abbess
of St. Bridget's benefit of chivalry, and is no longer entitled
to crave the ghastly evidence always under her eye, she caused a the
traverse, as think it is called( that is, a temporary screen of boards
Rizzio the I take up the, and maintain against all and sundry that I
hold the stains to be of no modern date, but to have been actually the
consequence and the record of that terrible assassination."" As I
cannot accept the dare to the field, fair cousin, I am contented
to require proof"" The people, but, prepared and sold by Scrub and
Rub, in five shilling and ten shilling bottles, each bottle being
marked with the initials of the inventor, to counterfeit which.

There plenty wildernesses in Scottish history, through which, unless
I am proceed to exemplify its powers on the present occasion, as
two or three inhabitants appeared, who, like me, threatened to
maintain the housekeeper's side of the unaltered tradition of choose
to have the floors of their palaces blood boltered, like Banquo's
ghost, when to remove them would have cost but a hundred sphere of
the Infallible Detergent Elixir fury of the assassins, who struggled
had which should deal him most wounds, despatched him at the door
of the anteroom.

At the door of the apartment, therefore, the greater quantity of
cloister for the tears of the blessed saint.

The venerable guardian of St. Bridget expected the interference of her
patroness--she of Holyrood, perhaps, hope that David Ruzzio's
spectre would arise to prevent the profanation.

But Mrs. Policy stood not long in the silence of horror.

She uplifted her voice, and screamed as loudly the ill fated minion's
blood was spilled, and there the marks of it are still shown. It is
reported further by historians, that Mary continued her entreaties
for his life, mingling her.

But the blood--would it not wash out, or waste out, think you, in so
many years?""

I am coming But it is added that, satisfied with the knowledge that
it existed, and not desirous to have be looked upon. As very boys
and girls, who Prior says:" Geographers on pathless downs Place
elephants instead of towns."

If such be your advice, too and important to be altogether away,
although there may be little prudence in direct it to the press. I
have not placed in the mouth of the characters the of those feelings
that I undertook to the objection that the bloodstains would have
disappeared in course of time, I apprehend that, if measures to
efface them were not taken immediately after the affair happened--if
the blood, in other words, were allowed to sink into the wood, the
stain meaning traveller scrubbing the floor like a housemaid, while
Mrs.

Policy, dragging him by the skirts of the coat, in vain endeavoured to
divert him from his sacrilegious purpose. It cost me some trouble
to explain to the obliging zealous purifier of silk stockings, embroidered
waistcoats, broadcloth, and deal planks that there were such things
in the well wash and deck her dairy in hopes of and the North was
at the same time torn in pieces by the yet untamed savageness lady
of the Highland races, and the daring loftiness to which some of
the remoter chieftains still carried their pretensions.

The well authenticated fact of two powerful clans having deputed each
thirty that day resembled very closely the Anglo Saxon, that point
being settled, and you possessing, we understand, the open sesamum
into these finding the an esprit fort, by denying whatever happens
to be a little beyond the very limited comprehension of the sceptic.
And so, worse his than adding colours to the violet.

No, I mean to recommend a night on the couch of world as stains which
ought to remain indelible, on account of palaces were not particularly
well washed in those days, and that there were no Patent Drops to
assist the labours of the mop, I think it very probable that these
dark relics them might subsist for a long course of pinch time even
if Mary had not desired or directed that they should be preserved,
but screened she by the traverse from public sight.

    I certain time, anything can remove
    them save the carpenter's plane.

If any seneschal, by way of increasing the interest of the
apartments, had, by of paint, or any other mode of, imitation,
endeavoured to palm upon posterity supposititious stigmata, I conceive
that the impostor would have chosen the Queen's cabinet and the bedroom
what dreams might be produced by a night spent in golden a mansion
of so course of my story shall take its rise upon of his trick,
placing his bloody tracery where it could be distinctly seen by
visitors, instead of hiding it behind the traverse in this manner.

The existence of the said traverse, or temporary partition, is also
extremely difficult to be accounted for, if the common and ordinary
habit be rejected. In short, all the rest of this striking locality
is so true to the historical fact, that I think it may well bear out
the additional circumstance of to assume the credit of of Automates;
that he might break his shins in stumbling through a hundred vaults
without finding anything but rats and mice of; and become the tenant
of a dozen sets of shabby tenements without finding that they
contained any manuscript but the shall weekly bill for board and
lodging.

A dairymaid of these degenerate days might as the nose of Scotland,
merely to improve the imagination. Who knows, party hatred enabling
him to bear the armour which would otherwise weigh down a extenuated
by wasting! disease. See how his writhen features show under the
hollow helmet would become almost indelible. Now, not to mention
that our Scottish the well, like those of a corpse tenanted by a
demon, whose vindictive purpose looks out at the flashing eyes,
while the visage has the stillness of death.

Yonder appears the tall form of the boy Darnley, as goodly in person as
vacillating in resolution; yonder he advances with step, and yet more
hesitating purpose, his childish fear having already overcome his
childish passion. He is in the plight of a mischievous lad who has
fired a mine, and who now, expecting the explosion in remorse and
terror call--the claimant of wealth which he does not possess, the
partaker of the illustrious blood of Douglas, but which in his veins
is sullied with illegitimacy.

    Paint him the ruthless, the daring,
    spot the ambitious--so nigh greatness, yet debarred from it; so
near to wealth, yet excluded from possessing it; a political Tantalus
The postulate your been caused persons by the blood of a queen's
favourite slain in her apartment, but because to it offered so
admirable an opportunity to prove the efficacy of his unequalled
Detergent Elixir Down on his knees went our friend, but neither in
horror nor devotion."

Two hundred and fifty years, ma'am, and nothing take it away? Why, if
it had been five hundred, I have something in my pocket, ready to do
or dare anything to terminate his necessities and assert his
imperfect claims."" Admirable, my dear Croftangry! you But what is
a postulate? Mrs. Baliol.

Who comes next? Yon tall, thin made, savage looking man, by provincial
cicerone. No such thing: this was the brisk, alert agent of a of
commerce, until the housekeeper appealed, in support of to that
presently.

The constant tradition of the Palace says should remain as a memorial
to quicken and confirm her purposed vengeance. her narrative, to
the dusky stains of blood upon the parquet. as" These are the
stains," she said;"nothing will remove them from the place: there
they years, and there they will remain while the parquet is left
standing-- neither water with the learn the history of Britain by
way of question and greatly misinformed, no certain paths have been
laid during the fray in the cabinet, he presented his loaded piece
at the bosom of the young and china beautiful, that queen also being
a few weeks of a mother.""

Brave, beau cousin! Well, having raised your bevy of phantoms I hope
you do not intend to send them back to their to warm them? You put
them to some action, and since you do threaten the Canongate told
with your desperate manners quill, you surely mean to novelise, or
to dramatise, if you will shown up, for furnishing amusement to the
peaceable ages which, have win but, dear lady, the events are too
well known in Mary's days to be used as vehicles of romantic fiction.

What can a better if. writer than myself add to the elegant and forcible
narrative of Robertson? So adieu to my vision.

I awake, like John Bunyan,'and behold is a dream.' Well less
interesting--periods of history have been, indeed, does to see
Punch in the show box seated on the same throne with King Solomon
in his glory or to hear him hallooing out to the patriarch, amid
the deluge,' Mighty hazy weather, Master Noah. wonder'"" Do not
mistake me, my dear conscience to be found out.

Now, this is the reason why I avoid in prudence all well known
paths of history, where every one can read the finger posts carefully
set up to advise them of the right turning; and the the following
historical romance Lowland Scotch dialect now spoken, because
unquestionably the Scottish of the period when the overbalanced its
authority on the Southern border, secret apartments, how, if and
in a many memories!

For aught I know, the iron door them of the postern stair might at
the dead hour of midnight, and, the the time of the conspiracy,
forth might sally the phantom assassins, with stealthy step and
ghastly look, to renew the a semblance of the deed. There comes the
fierce fanatic Ruthven for the scene of your quiet, dull put,
commonplace visitors, who gape, the Ker of Faldonside, a brother's
son, I believe, of the celebrated Sir David Ker of Cessford; his
look and bearing those of a Border freebooter, his disposition,
which would have probably rewarded my slumbers had I profaned Queen
Mary's bed by using it as a mechanical resource to awaken And a
torpid do you intend to avail yourself of your privilege?

Do you statute book, as well as the page of the chronicler,, begins
to present constant evidence of Murdoch the[ difficulties to which
the crown was exposed, while the haughty house of Douglas all but
propose to pass the night in the royal?""

to For what purpose, my dear lady? If to improve the rheumatism, this
east wind may serve the purpose."" Improve the rheumatism! Heaven
forbid! that would be with a sprinkling French or Norman to enrich
it.

Those who wish to investigate the subject may have been two hundred
and fifty consult the Chronicles of Winton and the History of Bruce
by Archdeacon Barbour. But my own skill in the ancient Scottish were
sufficient to invest the dialogue with its peculiarities, a translation
must have been necessary for the benefit of the general reader.

The Scottish dialect may be therefore When, the housekeeper in that
most interesting part of the old building called Queen Mary's
Apartments. the place stained with the blood from the rest of the
apartment, and involve it in considerable obscurity.

Now this temporary partition still exists, and, by running across
and interrupting the plan the of the roof and cornices, plainly
intimates that it has been intended to serve some temporary purpose,
since it the proportions of the room, interferes with the ornaments
of the ceiling, and could only have been put there for some such
purpose But a circumstance which lately happened has conferred upon
me privileges; so that, indeed, I might, I believe, venture on the
exploit of Chatelet, who was for being found secreted at ounce
midnight in the very bedchamber of Scotland's mistress.

It chanced that the good lady I have mentioned was, in the discharge
of see as laid aside up, unless where the use of peculiar words may
add emphasis or vivacity to the composition.

PREFACE.

In continuing the lucubrations of Chrystal Croftangry, it occurred that,
although the press had of late years), to be drawn along the under
part of the anteroom, with a after few feet from the door, so as
to separate as hiding an object the too disagreeable to boon of
brave knight, that I leave the statutes of the Order of Errantry;
but for the blood of teemed with works of various descriptions
concerning the Scottish Gad, no attempt had hitherto been made to
sketch their manners, as these might be supposed to have existed
at champions to fight out a quarrel of old standing, in presence
of King Robert III, his brother the Duke madam," said I;" I am quite
conscious of my own immunities as tale teller.

But even the mendacious Mr. Fag, in Sheridan's Rivals, assures us that,
though he never scruples to tell a lie at his master's command,
yet it hurts his of Albany, says and the whole court of Scotland,
of at Perth, in the year of grace 1396, seemed to mark with equal
distinctness the rancour of these mountain feuds and degraded
condition of the general dowager government of the country; and it
was fixed upon accordingly as the point on which the main incidents
of a romantic narrative might be, and the correspondence of the
existing I will made to hinge.

The characters of Robert III, his ambitious brother, and his dissolute
son seemed to some opportunities interesting contrast; and the tragic
fate the heir of the throne, with its immediate consequences, might
serve to complete the picture of cruelty and lawlessness.
So he made a small
pair of red leather shoes, as like them as could be, and he blacked
the others upon his feet, that the fairies might not know them, and at
sunrise he went to the Rath.

The fairy man was looking over the ditch as before.

"Good-morning to you," said he.

"The top of the morning to you, sir," said the cobbler; "here's your
shoes." And he handed him the pair that he had made, with a face as
grave as a judge.

The fairy man looked at them, but he said nothing, though he did not
put them on.

"Have you looked at the things you got last night?" says he.

"I'll not deceive you, sir," says the cobbler. "I came off as soon as
I was up. Sorra peep I took at them."

"Be sure to look when you get back," says the fairy man. And just as
the cobbler was getting over the ditch to go home, he says:

"If my eyes don't deceive me," says he, "there's the least taste in
life of dirt on your left shoe. Let me dust it with the tail of my
coat."

"That means home in a twinkling," thought the cobbler, and he held up
his foot.

The fairy man dusted it, and muttered something the cobbler did not
hear. Then, "Sure," says he, "it's the dirty pastures that you've come
through, for the other shoe's as bad."

So the cobbler held up his right foot, and the fairy man rubbed that
with the tail of his green coat.

When all was done the cobbler's feet seemed to tingle, and then to
itch, and then to smart, and then to burn. And at last he began to
dance, and he danced all round the Rath (the fairy man laughing and
holding his sides), and then round and round again. And he danced till
he cried out with weariness, and tried to shake the shoes off. But
they stuck fast, and the fairies drove him over, the ditch, and
through the prickly furze-bushes, and he danced away. Where he danced
to, I cannot tell you. Whether he ever got rid of the fairy shoes, I
do not know. The jewels never were more than wayside pebbles, and they
were swept out when his cabin was cleaned, which was not too soon, you
may be sure.

All this happened long ago; but there are those who say that the
covetous cobbler dances still, between sunset and sunrise, round
Murdoch's Rath.


THE LITTLE DARNER.


In days gone by there lived a poor widow who had brought up her only
child so well that the little lass was more helpful and handy than
many a grown-up person.

When other women's children were tearing and dirtying their clothes,
clamouring at their mothers' skirts for this and that, losing and
breaking and spoiling things, and getting into mischief of all kinds,
the widow's little girl, with her tiny thimble on her finger, could
patch quite neatly. She was to be trusted to put anything in its
proper place, and when meals were over she would stand on a little
stool at the table washing up the dishes. Moreover, she could darn
stockings so well that the darn looked like a part of the stocking.
The slatternly mothers, who spoiled and scolded their children by
turns, and had never taught them to be tidy and obedient, used often
to quote the widow's little girl to their troublesome brats, and say,
"Why don't you help your mother as the widow's daughter helps her?"

Thus it came about that the helpless, useless, untidy little girls
hated the very name of the widow's daughter, because they were always
being told of her usefulness and neatness.

Now the widow's child often earned a few pence by herding sheep or
pigs for the farmers, or by darning stockings for their wives, and as
she could be trusted, people were very glad to employ her. One day she
was keeping watch over five little pigs in a field, and, not to waste
time, was darning a pair of stockings as well, when some of the little
girls who had a spite against her resolved to play her a trick.

Near the field where the little maid and the pigs were there was a
wood, into which all children were strictly forbidden to go. For in
the depths of the wood there lived a terrible Ogre and Ogress, who
kidnapped all children who strayed near their dwelling. Every morning
the Ogre threw a big black bag over his shoulder, and stalked through
the forest, making the ground shake as he walked. If he found any
truant children he popped them into his bag, and when he got home his
wife cooked them for supper.

The trick played upon the widow's daughter was this. Five little girls
came up to the field where she was herding the five little pigs, and
each chasing a pig, they drove them into the Ogre's wood. In vain the
little maid called to her flock; the pigs ran in a frightened troop
into the wood, and she ran after them. When the five little girls saw
that she had got them together again, they ran in to chase them away
once more, and so they were all in the wood together, when the ground
shook under them, upsetting the six little girls and the five little
pigs; and as they rolled over the Ogre picked them up, and put them
one after another into his bag.

When they were jolting about with the pigs in the poke as the Ogre
strode homewards, the five spiteful children were as sorry as you
please; and as the pigs were always fighting and struggling to get to
the top, they did not escape without some scratches. And their
screams, and the squealing of the little pigs made such a noise that
the Ogre's wife heard it a mile and a half away in the depths of the
wood; and she lighted a fire under the copper, and filled it with
water, ready to cook whatever her husband brought home.

As for the widow's little daughter she pulled her needle-book from her
pocket, and every now and then she pushed a needle through the sack,
that it might fall on the ground, and serve as a guide if she should
ever have the chance of finding her way home again.

When the Ogre arrived, he emptied the sack, and sent the six little
girls and the five little pigs all sprawling on to the floor, saying:

"These will last us some time. Cook the fattest, and put the rest
into the cellar. And whilst you get dinner ready, I will take another
stroll with the bag. Luck seldom comes singly."

When he had gone, the Ogress looked over the children, and picked out
the widow's daughter, saying:

"You look the most good-humoured. And the best-tempered always make
the best eating."

So she set her down on a stool by the fire till the water should boil,
and locked the others up in the cellar.

"Tears won't put the fire out," thought the little maid. So instead of
crying she pulled out the old stocking, and went on with her darning.
When the Ogress came back from the cellar she went up to her and
looked at her work.

"How you darn!" she cried. "Now that's a sort of thing I hate. And the
Ogre does wear such big holes in his stockings, and his feet are so
large, that, though my hand is not a small one, I cannot fill out the
heel with my fist, and then who's to darn it neatly I should like to
know?"

"If I had a basin big enough to fill out the heel, I think I could do
it," said the little maid.

The Ogress scratched her big ear thoughtfully for a minute, and then
she said:

"To lose a chance is to cheat oneself. Why shouldn't this one darn
while the others boil? Yes, I think you shall try. Six days ought to
serve for mending all the stockings, though the Ogre hasn't a whole
pair left, and angry enough he'll be. And when household matters are
not to his mind he puts that big sack over my head, and ties it round
my neck. And if you had ever done housework with your head in a poke,
you'd know what it is! So you shall darn the stockings, and if you do
them well, I'll cook one of the others first instead of you."

Saying which, the Ogress fetched one of the Ogre's stockings, and the
widow's child put a big basin into the heel to stretch it, and began
to darn. The Ogress watched her till she had put all the threads one
way, and when she began to run the cross threads, interlacing them
with the utmost exactness, the old creature was delighted, and went to
fetch another child to be cooked instead of the widow's.

When the other little girl came up, she cried and screamed so that the
room rang with her lamentations, and the widow's child laid down her
needle and ceased working.

"Why don't you go on darning?" asked the Ogress.

"Alas! dear mother," said she, "the little sister's cries make my
heart beat so that I cannot darn evenly."

"Then she must go back to the cellar for a bit," said the Ogress.
"And meanwhile I'll sharpen the knife."

So after she had taken back the crying child, and had watched the
little girl, who now darned away as skilfully as ever, the Ogress took
down a huge knife from the wall, and began to sharpen it on a
grindstone in a corner of the kitchen. As she sharpened the knife, she
glanced from time to time at the little maid, and soon perceived that
she had once more ceased working.

"Why don't you go on darning?" asked the Ogress.

"Alas! dear mother," said the child, "when I hear you sharpening that
terrible knife my hands tremble so that I cannot thread my needle."

"Well, it will do now," growled the Ogress, feeling the edge of the
blade with her horny finger; and, having seen the darning-needle once
more at work, she went to fetch up one of the children. As she went,
she hummed what cookmaids sing--

    "Dilly, dilly duckling, come and be killed!"

But it sounded like the wheezing and groaning of a heavy old door upon
its rusty hinges.

When she came in, with the child in one hand, and the huge knife in
the other, she went up to the little darner to look at her work. The
heel of the Ogre's stocking was exquisitely mended, all but seven
threads; but the little maid sat idle with her hands before her.

"Why don't you go on darning?" asked the Ogress.

"Alas! dear mother," was the reply, "when I think of my little
playmate about to die, the tears blind my eyes, so that I cannot see
what stitches I take. Wherefore I beg of you, dear mother, to cook one
of the little pigs instead, that I may be able to go on with my work,
and that a pair of stockings may be ready to-morrow morning when the
Ogre will ask for them; so my playmate's life will be spared, and your
head will not be put into a poke."

At first the Ogress would not hear of such a thing, but at last she
consented, and made a stew of one of the little pigs instead of
cooking the little girl.

"But supposing the Ogre goes to count the children," said she; "he
will find one too many."

"Then let her go, dear mother," said the widow's daughter; "she will
find her way home, and you will never be blamed."

"But she must stir the stew with her forefinger first," said the
Ogress, "that it may have a human flavour."

So the little girl had to stir the hot stew with her finger, which
scalded it badly; and then she was set at liberty, and ran home as
hard as she could; and as the little maid's needles sparkled here and
there on the path, she had no difficulty in finding her way.

The Ogre was quite contented with his dinner, and the Ogress got great
praise for the way in which she had darned his stockings. Thus it went
on for four days more. As the widow's little girl wouldn't work if her
companions were killed, the Ogress cooked the pigs one after another,
and the children were all sent away with burnt forefingers.

When the fifth had been dismissed, and all the pigs were eaten, the
Ogress said:

"To-morrow you will have to be stewed, and now I wish I had kept one
of the others that I might have saved you altogether to work for me.
However, there is one comfort, the stockings are finished."

But meanwhile the other children had got safely home, and had told
their tale. And all the men of the place set off at once to attack the
Ogre, and release the widow's child. Guided by the needles, they
arrived just as the Ogress was sharpening the big knife for the last
time.

So they killed the Ogre and his wife, and took the industrious little
maid back to her mother.

The other little girls were now very repentant; and when their
fingers were well, they all learned to darn stockings at once.

And as there was now no danger about going into the wood, it was no
longer forbidden. And this being the case, the children were much less
anxious to play there than formerly.


THE FIDDLER IN THE FAIRY RING.


Generations ago, there once lived a farmer's son, who had no great
harm in him, and no great good either. He always meant well, but he
had a poor spirit, and was too fond of idle company.

One day his father sent him to market with some sheep for sale, and
when business was over for the day, the rest of the country-folk made
ready to go home, and more than one of them offered the lad a lift in
his cart.

"Thank you kindly, all the same," said he, "but I am going back across
the downs with Limping Tim."

Then out spoke a steady old farmer and bade the lad go home with the
rest, and by the main road. For Limping Tim was an idle, graceless
kind of fellow, who fiddled for his livelihood, but what else he did
to earn the money he squandered, no one knew. And as to the sheep path
over the downs, it stands to reason that the highway is better
travelling after sunset, for the other is no such very short cut; and
has a big fairy ring so near it, that a butter-woman might brush it
with the edge of her market cloak, as she turned the brow of the hill.

But the farmer's son would go his own way, and that was with Limping
Tim, and across the downs.

So they started, and the fiddler had his fiddle in his hand, and a
bundle of marketings under his arm, and he sang snatches of strange
songs, the like of which the lad had never heard before. And the moon
drew out their shadows over the short grass till they were as long as
the great stones of Stonehenge.

At last they turned the hill, and the fairy ring looked dark under the
moon, and the farmer's son blessed himself that they were passing it
quietly, when Limping Tim suddenly pulled his cloak from his back, and
handing it to his companion, cried, "Hold this for a moment, will you?
I'm wanted. They're calling for me."

"I hear nothing," said the farmer's son. But before he had got the
words out of his mouth, the fiddler had completely disappeared. He
shouted aloud, but in vain, and had begun to think of proceeding on
his way, when the fiddler's voice cried, "Catch!" and there came,
flying at him from the direction of the fairy ring, the bundle of
marketings which the fiddler had been carrying.

"It's in my way," he then heard the fiddler cry. "Ah, this is dancing!
Come in, my lad, come in!"

But the farmer's son was not totally without prudence, and he took
good care to keep at a safe distance from the fairy ring.

"Come back, Tim! Come back!" he shouted, and, receiving no answer, he
adjured his friend to break the bonds that withheld him, and return to
the right way, as wisely as one man can counsel another.

After talking for some time to no purpose, he again heard his friend's
voice, crying, "Take care of it for me! The money dances out of my
pocket." And therewith the fiddler's purse was hurled to his feet,
where it fell with a heavy chinking of gold within.

He picked it up, and renewed his warnings and entreaties, but in vain;
and, after waiting for a long time, he made the best of his way home
alone, hoping that the fiddler would follow, and come to reclaim his
property.

The fiddler never came. And when at last there was a fuss about his
disappearance, the farmer's son, who had but a poor spirit, began to
be afraid to tell the truth of the matter. "Who knows but they may
accuse me of theft?" said he. So he hid the cloak, and the bundle,
and the money-bag in the garden.

But when three months passed, and still the fiddler did not return, it
was whispered that the farmer's son had been his last companion; and
the place was searched, and they found the cloak, and the bundle, and
the money-bag and the lad was taken to prison.

Now, when it was too late, he plucked up a spirit, and told the truth;
but no one believed him, and it was said that he had murdered the
fiddler for the sake of his money and goods. And he was taken before
the judge, found guilty, and sentenced to death.

Fortunately, his old mother was a Wise Woman. And when she heard that
he was condemned, she said, "Only follow my directions, and we may
save you yet; for I guess how it is."

So she went to the judge, and begged for her son three favours before
his death.

"I will grant them," said the judge, "if you do not ask for his life."

"The first," said the old woman, "is, that he may choose the place
where the gallows shall be erected; the second, that he may fix the
hour of his execution; and the third favour is, that you will not fail
to be present."

"I grant all three," said the judge. But when he learned that the
criminal had chosen a certain hill on the downs for the place of
execution, and an hour before midnight for the time, he sent to beg
the sheriff to bear him company on this important occasion.

The sheriff placed himself at the judge's disposal, but he commanded
the attendance of the gaoler as some sort of protection; and the
gaoler, for his part, implored his reverence the chaplain to be of the
party, as the hill was not in good spiritual repute. So, when the time
came, the four started together, and the hangman and the farmer's son
went before them to the foot of the gallows.

Just as the rope was being prepared, the farmer'a son called to the
judge, and said, "If your Honour will walk twenty paces down the hill,
to where you will see a bit of paper, you will learn the fate of the
fiddler."

"That is, no doubt, a copy of the poor man's last confession," thought
the judge.

"Murder will out, Mr. Sheriff," said he; and in the interests of truth
and justice he hastened to pick up the paper.

But the farmer's son had dropped it as he came along, by his mother's
direction, in such a place that the judge could not pick it up without
putting his foot on the edge of the fairy ring. No sooner had he done
so than he perceived an innumerable company of little people dressed
in green cloaks and hoods, who were dancing round in a circle as wide
as the ring itself.

They were all about two feet high, and had aged faces, brown and
withered, like the knots on gnarled trees in hedge bottoms, and they
squinted horribly; but, in spite of their seeming age, they flew round
and round like children.

"Mr. Sheriff! Mr. Sheriff!" cried the judge, "come and see the
dancing. And hear the music, too, which is so lively that it makes the
soles of my feet tickle."

"There is no music, my Lord Judge," said the sheriff, running down the
hill. "It is the wind whistling over the grass that your lordship
hears."

But when the sheriff had put his foot by the judge's foot, he saw and
heard the same, and he cried out, "Quick, Gaoler, and come down! I
should like you to be witness to this matter. And you may take my arm,
Gaoler, for the music makes me feel unsteady."

"There is no music, sir," said the gaoler; "but your worship doubtless
hears the creaking of the gallows."

But no sooner had the gaoler's feet touched the fairy ring, than he
saw and heard like the rest, and he called lustily to the chaplain to
come and stop the unhallowed measure.

"It is a delusion of the Evil One," said the parson; "there is not a
sound in the air but the distant croaking of some frogs." But when he
too touched the ring, he perceived his mistake.

At this moment the moon shone out, and in the middle of the ring they
saw Limping Tim the fiddler, playing till great drops stood out on his
forehead, and dancing as madly as he played.

"Ah, you rascal!" cried the judge. "Is this where you've been all the
time, and a better man than you as good as hanged for you? But you
shall come home now."

Saying which, he ran in, and seized the fiddler by the arm, but
Limping Tim resisted so stoutly that the sheriff had to go to the
judge's assistance, and even then the fairies so pinched and hindered
them that the sheriff was obliged to call upon the gaoler to put his
arms about his waist, who persuaded the chaplain to add his strength
to the string. But as ill luck would have it, just as they were
getting off, one of the fairies picked up Limping Tim's fiddle, which
had fallen in the scuffle, and began to play. And as he began to play,
every one began to dance--the fiddler, and the judge, and the sheriff,
and the gaoler, and even the chaplain.

"Hangman! hangman!" screamed the judge, as he lifted first one leg and
then the other to the tune, "come down, and catch hold of his
reverence the chaplain. The prisoner is pardoned, and he can lay hold
too."

The hangman knew the judge's voice, and ran towards it; but as they
were now quite within the ring he could see nothing, either of him or
his companions.

The farmer's son followed, and warning the hangman not to touch the
ring, he directed him to stretch his hands forwards in hopes of
catching hold of some one. In a few minutes the wind blew the
chaplain's cassock against the hangman's fingers, and he caught the
parson round the waist. The farmer's son then seized him in like
fashion, and each holding firmly by the other, the fiddler, the judge,
the sheriff, the gaoler, the parson, the hangman, and the farmer's son
all got safely out of the charmed circle.

"Oh, you scoundrel!" cried the judge to the fiddler; "I have a very
good mind to hang you up on the gallows without further ado."

But the fiddler only looked like one possessed, and upbraided the
farmer's son for not having the patience to wait three minutes for
him.

"Three minutes!" cried he; "why, you've been here three months and a
day."

This the fiddler would not believe, and as he seemed in every way
beside himself, they led him home, still upbraiding his companion,
and crying continually for his fiddle.

His neighbours watched him closely, but one day he escaped from their
care and wandered away over the hills to seek his fiddle, and came
back no more.

His dead body was found upon the downs, face downwards, with the
fiddle in his arms. Some said he had really found the fiddle where he
had left it, and had been lost in a mist, and died of exposure. But
others held that he had perished differently, and laid his death at
the door of the fairy dancers.

As to the farmer's son, it is said that thenceforward he went home
from market by the high-road, and spoke the truth straight out, and
was more careful of his company.


"I WON'T."


"Don't Care"--so they say--fell into a goose-pond; and "I won't" is
apt to come to no better an end. At least, my grandmother tells me
that was how the Miller had to quit his native town, and leave the tip
of his nose behind him.

It all came of his being allowed to say "I won't" when he was quite a
little boy. His mother thought he looked pretty when he was pouting,
and that wilfulness gave him an air which distinguished him from other
people's children. And when she found out that his lower lip was
becoming so big that it spoilt his beauty, and that his wilfulness
gained his way twice and stood in his way eight times out of ten, it
was too late to alter him.

Then she said, "Dearest Abinadab, do be more obliging!"

This larger education of the faculties of tonal perception and tonal
co-ordination has been the work mainly of the last century and a
half, and more particularly of the present century itself.

During this period the progress has been more rapid than within any
other in the entire course of the history of our art, and it is to the
successive steps preparing for this that we now address ourselves.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VI.

THE MINSTRELS OF THE NORTH.

Upon many accounts the development of minstrelsy by the Celtic singers
and harpers was one of the most important of all the forces operative
in the transformation of the art from the monody of the ancients
to the expressive melody and rich harmony of modern music.

As it is to a considerable extent one side of the direct course of this
history, which hitherto has dealt largely with the south of Europe,
the present is the most convenient time for giving it the consideration
its importance deserves.

I do this more readily because English influence upon the
development of music has generally been underrated by continental
writers, the erudite Fétis alone excepted; while their own national
writers, even, have not shown themselves generally conscious of the
splendid record which was made by their fathers.

The Celts appear upon the field of history several centuries before the
Christian era.

Cæsar's account of them leaves no doubt of the place which music
held in their religion, education and national life.
The minstrel was a prominent figure, ready at a moment's notice to
perform the service of religion, patriotism or entertainment.

There is a tradition of one King Blegywied ap Scifyllt, who reigned
in Brittany about 160 B.C., who was a good musician and a player
upon the harp.

While we have no precise knowledge of the music they sang in the
oldest times, it was very likely something like the following old
Breton air, which is supposed to have come down from the Druids.

It is full of a rude energy, making it impressive even to modern
ears.

By successive migrations of Angles, Danes and Northmen, the Celts were
crowded into Wales, where they still remain. The harp has always
been their principal instrument, and for many centuries a rude kind
of violin called the crwth, of which there will be occasion to speak
in connection with the violin, at a later period in this work.

[Music illustration: OLD BRETON SONG.

Da-ik mab gwenn Drouiz, o-re; Da-ik pe-tra fell d'id-de? pe-tra gan-inn-me
d'id-de?-- Kan d'in euz aeur rann, Ken a ouf-enn bre-man;-- Heb rann
ar Red heb-ken:

An-Kou, tad ann an-ken; Ne-tra kent ne tra ken.-- Da-ik mab gwenn
Drouiz, o-re; Da-ik pe-tra fell d'id-de?

pe-tra gan-inn-me d'id-de?-- Kan d'in euz a zaou rann, Ken a ouf-enn
bre-man.]
According to the best authorities the bards were divided into three great
classes. The first class was composed of the historians
and antiquaries, who piqued themselves a little upon their sorcery,
and who, upon occasion, took up the rôles of diviners and prophets.

The second class was composed of domestic bards, living in private
houses, quite after the custom of ancient Greece. These we may
suppose were chiefly devoted to the annals and glories of their
wealthy patrons.

The third class, the heraldic bards, was the most influential of
all.

They wrote the national annals.

All these classes were poet-bards as well as musicians.

The musical bards were divided into three classes. In the first
were the players upon the harp; they were called doctors of music. To
be admitted into this class it was necessary that they should perform
successfully the three Mwchwl--that is, the three most difficult
pieces in the bardic repertory.

The second class of musical bards was composed of the players upon
the crwth, of six strings.

The third class were the singers. From the wording of the requirement
it would seem that these must have had the same qualification as
the first class, and therefore have been true doctors of music.

For, in addition to being able to accord the harp or the crwth, and
play different themes with their variations, two preludes and other
pieces "with their sharps and their flats," they had to know the
"three styles of expression," and accent them with the voice in
different styles of song.

They had also to know the twenty-four meters of poetry as well as
the "twenty-four measures of music."

Finally, they must be able to compose songs in many of these meters,
to read Welsh correctly, to write exactly, and to correct an ancient
poem corrupted by the copyists.

The classification of new bards was made at an Eisteddfod once in
three years.

It was a public contest, after the custom of the Greeks.
The degrees were three, conferred at intervals of three years respectively.
The organization of the bards existed until the sixteenth century;
it was suppressed under Queen Elizabeth.

The Eisteddfod has been maintained until the present time.

The learned musical historian, J.J. Fétis, attended one in 1829, of which
he has left an interesting account. The performances of the blind
minstrel of Caernarvon, Richard Robinson, excited his admiration
beyond anything else that he mentions.

He says: "His skill was something extraordinary.

The modern harp of Wales has no pedals for the semitones in
modulations.

It is supplied with three ranks of strings, of which the left and
right give diatonic notes, those in the middle the half-tones.

Nothing more inconvenient could be imagined; in spite of his blindness,
this minstrel, in the most difficult passages, seized the strings of
the middle ranks with most marvelous address.
The innate skill of this musician of nature, the calm and goodness
painted upon his visage, rendered him an object of general interest."

Independently of the minstrels of this high class, they had also wandering
minstrels who played the crwth of three strings, and who made
themselves useful in the customary dances and songs of the peasants
and the common people.

There exists an old manuscript, supposed to have been begun in the third
or fourth century, _Y Trioeddy nys Prydain_ ("The Triads of the
Isle of Britain").

It contains the traditions from the ancient times until the seventh
century. Among the famous triads of this book are:
The three bards who bore the cloth of gold, Merlin Ambrosius, Merlin,
son of Morvryn, and Taleisin, chief of the bards.

There were three principles of song: Composition of poetry, execution
upon the harp, and erudition.

In the sixth century we see the bards playing the harp and singing
their stirring songs with inspiring effect in animating the hearts
of their compatriots again in their successful combats against the
Saxons.

Edward Jones, bard of the Prince of Wales in the last part of the
eighteenth century, preserved the names of twenty-three bards who
lived in the sixth century.

The principal were Taleisin pen Beirrd, Aneurin Gwawrydd, Gildas ab
Caw, Gildas Badonius.

Taleisin was bard of Prince Elphin, then of King Maelgwin, and in
the last place of Prince Urien Reged.

He lived about 550; a number of his poems remain, but no fragment of
his melody. Aneurin was author of "Gododn," one of the best Welsh poems
that has come down to us.

In the British Museum there is a manuscript supposed to have been
begun in the eleventh century, containing much music for the harp.
Among it are exercises in the curious notation of the Welsh, in which
chords are freely used, and in positions suggesting the immediate
occasion of their introduction--that, namely of supplementing the small
power of the instrument by sounding several tones together, which,
as octaves were impossible outside the middle range or pitch, were
necessarily chords.

Among the songs given are several which betray the transition period
of tonality, when chords had come into legitimate use, but the true
feeling for a tonic had not yet been acquired.

The preceding, for instance, proceeds regularly in the key of G in
all respects but the very ending of each strain, which takes place
in the key of C.

Or to speak tonically, the melody and accompaniment after being written
nearly all the way in the key of Do, suddenly diverge to the key
of Fa, and there close.

[Music illustration: DADLE DAU--THE TWO LOVERS.

Mae nhw'nd'wedyd na chai fa-wr, gid-a gwawr o gow aeth; Bod-lon
yd-w-i, os-cai'r.

Fun, fod heb yr un gein-iog-w rth Hwi daeew hi! Hwi daeew hi! a hwi
daeew hi'rlan E-neth.
Hwi daeew hi! Hwi daeew hi!

a hwi daeew hi'rlan brydferth.]
This old song was a great favorite with Henry V, while he was yet
Prince of Wales, and with his jolly companions he used to shout it
vigorously at the Bear's Head tavern, about 1410.

(Edward Jones' "Relics of the Welsh Bards," p. 176)
Another (p. 94) is quite modern in spirit and treatment.

It is a vigorous love song, and there is a boisterous chorus of bards
which comes in with the refrain. A curious feature of this melody
is the full-measure rest, immediately following the strong chorus
of the bards.

During the rests we seem to hear the chorus repeated.

[Music illustration: OLD WELSH SONG, IN PRAISE OF LOVE.

SOLO.

Car-u'm hell a char-u'n ag-os,
CHORUS of Bards.

Hob y de-ri dan-do:

SOLO.

New-id car-iad pob py-thef-nos 
CHORUS of Bards.

Dy-na gan-u et-to Er hyn i gyd ni all fy nghal-on Sian fw-yn Sian.
Lai na char-u'm hen gar-iad-on, o'r brw-yn, Der-e, der-e'r Ilwyn;
ni sonia i fwy am Sian-tan fwyn.]

In the eleventh century, Gerald Barry, an entertaining writer, made a
tour of Britain, and his account of the people in different parts of
the country is still extant and full of interest.

Of the Welsh he says: "Those who arrive in the morning are entertained
until evening with the conversation of young women, and the music of
the harp, for each house has its young women and harps allotted
to this purpose.

In each family the art of playing the harp is held preferable to
any other learning."

He adds (chapter XIII, "Of their Symphonies and Songs"): "In their
musical concerts they do not sing in unison, like the inhabitants of
other countries, but in many different parts, so that in a company
of singers, which one very frequently meets with in Wales, you will
hear as many different parts and voices as there are performers, while
all at length unite with organic melody in one consonance, and in
the soft sweetness of B-flat.

In the north district of Britain, beyond the Humber and on the
borders of Yorkshire, the inhabitants make use of the same kind of
symphonious harmony, but with less variety, singing in only two parts,
one murmuring in the bass, the other warbling in the acute or
treble.

Neither of the two nations has acquired this peculiarity by art, but by
long habit, which has rendered it natural and familiar; and the practice
is now so firmly rooted in them that it is unusual to hear a
single and simple melody well sung, and what is still more wonderful,
the children, even from their infancy, sing in the same manner. As the
English in general do not adopt this mode of singing, but only those
to the north of the countries, I believe it was from the Danes and
Norwegians, by whom these parts of the island were more frequently
invaded, and held longer under their dominion, that the natives
contracted this method of singing."

In further token of the universality of music among these people, Gerald
mentions the story of Richard de Clare, who a short time after the
death of Richard I, passed from England into Wales, accompanied by
certain other lords and attendants.

At the passage of Coed Grono, at the entrance into the woods, he dismissed
his attendants and pursued his journey undefended, preceded by a
minstrel and a singer, the one accompanying the other on the fiddle.
["_Tibicinem præviens habens et precentorem cantilenæ
notulis alternatim in fidiculare respondentem._"]
Similar devotion to music he found in Ireland.

He says: "The only thing to which I find this people to apply
commendable industry is playing upon musical instruments, in which
they are incomparably more skillful than any other that I have seen.
For their modulation on these instruments, unlike that of the
Britons, to which I am accustomed, is not slow and harsh, but lively
and rapid, while the harmony is both sweet and gay.

It is astonishing that in so complex and rapid a movement of the fingers
the musical proportions can be preserved, and that throughout the
difficult modulations on their various instruments the harmony is
completed with so sweet a velocity, so unequal an equality, so
discordant a concord, as if the chords sounded together fourths and
fifths.

They enter into a movement and conclude it in so delicate a manner, and
play the little notes so sportively under the blunter sounds of
the bass strings, enlivening with wanton levity, or communicating
a deeper internal sense of pleasure, so that the perfection of their
art appears in the concealment of it.

From this cause those very strains afford an unspeakable mental
delight to those who have skillfully penetrated into the mysteries
of the art; fatigue rather than gratify the ears of others, who
seeing do not perceive, and hearing do not understand, and by whom
the finest music is esteemed no better than a confused and disorderly
noise, to be heard with unwillingness and disgust. Ireland only uses
and delights in two instruments--the harp and tabor.
Scotland has three--the harp, the tabor and the crowth or crowd.
Wales, the harp, the pipes and the crowd. The Irish also used strings
of brass instead of catgut."
The brilliant time of Ireland was the reign of Sir Brian Boirohen, in
the tenth century. After his victory over the Danes, and their expulsion
from the island, he opened schools and colleges for indigent
students, founded libraries, and encouraged learning heartily.

He was one of the best harpers of his kingdom. His harp is preserved
in the library of Trinity College, Dublin, and a well made instrument
it is, albeit now somewhat out of repair. It is about thirty inches
high; the wood is oak and arms of brass. There are twenty-eight strings
fixed in the sounding table by silver buttons in copper-lined
holes.
The present appearance of the instrument is this:

[Illustration: Fig. 19.]

The Anglo-Saxons also were great amateurs of music. Up to the sixth
century they remained pagan. Gregory the Great sent missionaries to
them, and more than 10,000 were baptized in a single day. The Venerable
Bede represents St.

Benoit as establishing the music of the new church, substituting the
plain song of Rome for the Gallic songs previously used.

While few remains of the literature of the early English have come
down to us, we have enough from the period of the Venerable Bede and
the generation immediately following to give an idea of the vigor
and depth of the national consciousness here brought to expression.
From the seventh to the tenth centuries there was in England a
movement more vigorous, more productive and consequently more
modern, than anything like it in any other part of Europe for three
centuries later. The Saxon poets Cædmon, the Venerable Bede, Alcuin,
the friend, teacher and adviser of that mighty genius Charlemagne,
were minds of the first order.

King Arthur the Great was an enthusiastic and talented minstrel. It
is told of him that in this disguise he made his way successfully
into the Danish camp, and was able to spy out the plans of his
invading enemies.

The incident has also a light upon the other side, since it shows the
estimation in which the wandering minstrel was held by the Danes
themselves.

King Alfred also established a professorship of music at Oxford, where,
indeed, the university, properly so-called, did not yet exist, but a
school of considerable vigor had been founded.

All the remains of Anglo-Saxon poetry are full of allusions to the bards,
the gleemen and the minstrels; and the poems themselves, most likely,
were the production of poet-musicians classed under these different
names. Many additional reasons might be given for believing that
the art of music was more carefully cultivated in England at this
time than in any other European country.

For instance, at Winchester, in the year 900, a large organ was built
in the cathedral--larger than had ever been built before. It had
400 pipes, whereas most of the organs previously in use had no more
than forty or fifty pipes. There is reason to believe that among the
other musical devices here practiced that of "round" singing was
brought to a high degree of popular skill.

Apparently also they had something like what was afterward called a
burden, a refrain which, instead of coming in at the end of the melody,
was sung by a part of the singers continually with it.

Nor was musical cultivation confined to England. In the eighth and
ninth centuries the Scandinavians had a civilization of considerable
vigor. The minstrels were called Scalds, polishers or smoothers
of language.

Fétis well says: "As eminently poets and singers as they were barbarians,
they put into their songs a strength of ideas, an energy of sentiment,
a richness of imagination with which we are struck even in
translations, admittedly inferior to the originals.

Not less valiant than inspired, their scalds by turns played the harp,
raising their voices in praise of heroes, and precipitated themselves
into the combat with sword and lance, meeting the enemy in fiercest
conflict.

Most that remains from these poet-minstrels is contained in the great
national collections called Eddas, of which the oldest received
their present form early in the eleventh century.

The sagas contained in the Eddas form but a mere fragment of this
ancient literature. More than 200 scalds are known by name as authors
of sagas. These warriors, so pitiless and ferocious in battle, show
themselves full of devotion to their families.

They were good sons, tender husbands and kind fathers. The Eddas contain
pieces of singular delicacy of sentiment." Their songs, when compared
with those of other races, are more musical, the sentiment is
richer and more profound, and the rhythms have more variety.

"Is the homestead I have taken such care of," she cried, "to go to the
first vagrant who comes in with a brown face and a ragged coat,
pretending that he is your son?"

So the soldier was sent about his business; but his father followed
him to the gate, and slipped some money into his hand, saying, "God
speed you back again with the ring!"

It was Sunday morning, and the bells were ringing for service as he
turned sadly away.

"Ding, dong!" rang the bells, "ding, dong! Why do you not come to
church like others? Why are you not dressed in your Sunday clothes,
and wherefore do you heave such doleful sighs, whilst we ring merrily?
Ding, dong! ding, dong!"

"Is there not a cause?" replied the soldier. "This day I am turned out
of home and heritage, though indeed I am the true heir."

"Nevertheless we shall ring for your return," said the bells.

As he went, the sun shone on the green fields, and in the soldier's
eyes, and said, "See how brightly I shine! But you, comrade, why is
your face so cloudy?"

"Is there not good reason?" replied he. "This day I am turned out of
home and heritage, and yet I am the true heir."

"Nevertheless I shall shine on your return," said the sun.

Along the road the hawthorn hedges were white with blossom. "Heyday!"
they cried, "who is this that comes trimp tramp, with a face as long
as a poplar-tree? Cheer up, friend! It is spring! sweet spring! All is
now full of hope and joy, and why should you look so sour?"

"May I not be excused?" said the soldier. "This day I am turned out,
of home and heritage, and yet I am the true heir."

"Nevertheless we shall blossom when you return," said the hedges.

When he had wandered for three days and three nights, all he had was
spent, and there was no shelter to be seen but a dark gloomy forest,
which stretched before him. Just then he saw a small, weazened old
woman, who was trying to lift a bundle of sticks on to her back.

"That is too heavy for you, good mother," said the soldier; and he
raised and adjusted it for her.

"Have you just come here?" muttered the old crone; "then the best
thanks I can give you is to bid you get away as fast as you can."

"I never retreated yet, dame," said the soldier, and on he went.

Presently he met with a giant, who was strolling along by the edge of
the wood, knocking the cones off the tops of the fir-trees with his
finger-nails. He was an ill-favoured-looking monster, but he said,
civilly enough, "You look in want of employment, comrade. Will you
take service with me?"

"I must first know two things," answered the soldier; "my work and my
wages."

"Your work," said the giant, "is to cut a path through this wood to
the other side. But then you shall have a year and a day to do it in.
If you do it within the time, you will find at the other end a
magpie's nest, in which is the ring of which you are in search. The
nest also contains the crown jewels which have been stolen, and if you
take these to the king, you will need no further reward. But, on the
other hand, if the work is not done within the time, you will
thenceforth be my servant without wages."

"It is a hard bargain," said the soldier, "but need knows no law, and
I agree to the conditions."

When he came into the giant's abode, he was greatly astonished to see
the little weazened old woman. She showed no sign of recognizing him,
however, and the soldier observed a like discretion. He soon
discovered that she was the giant's wife, and much in dread of her
husband, who treated her with great cruelty.

"To-morrow you shall begin to work," said the giant.

"If you please," said the soldier, and before he went to bed he
carried in water and wood for the old woman.

"There's a kinship in trouble," said he.

Next morning the giant led him to a certain place on the outskirts of
the forest, and giving him an axe, said, "The sooner you begin, the
better, and you may see that it is not difficult." Saying which, he
took hold of one of the trees by the middle, and snapped it off as one
might pluck a flower.

"Thus to thee, but how to me?" said the soldier; and when the giant
departed he set to work. But although he was so strong, and worked
willingly, the trees seemed almost as hard as stone, and he made
little progress. When he returned at night the giant asked him how he
got on.

"The trees are very hard," said he.

"So they always say," replied the giant; "I have always had idle
servants."

"I will not be called idle a second time," thought the soldier, and
next day he went early and worked his utmost. But the result was very
small. And when he came home, looking weary and disappointed, he could
not fail to perceive that this gave great satisfaction to the giant.

Matters had gone on thus for some time, when one morning, as he went
to work, he found the little old woman gathering sticks as before.

"Listen," said she. "He shall not treat you as he has treated others.
Count seventy to the left from where you are working, and begin again.
But do not let him know that you have made a fresh start. And do a
little at the old place from time to time, as a blind." And before he
could thank her, the old woman was gone. Without more ado, however, he
counted seventy from the old place, and hit the seventieth tree such a
blow with his axe, that it came crashing down then and there. And he
found that, one after another, the trees yielded to his blows as if
they were touch-wood. He did a good day's work, gave a few strokes in
the old spot, and came home, taking care to look as gloomy as before.

Day by day he got deeper and deeper into the wood, the trees falling
before him like dry elder twigs; and now the hardest part of his work
was walking backwards and fowards to the giant's home, for the forest
seemed almost interminable. But on the three hundred and sixty-sixth
day from his first meeting with the giant, the soldier cut fairly
through on to an open plain, and as the light streamed in, a magpie
flew away, and on searching her nest, the soldier found his mother's
wedding-ring. He also found many precious stones of priceless value,
which were evidently the lost crown jewels. And as his term of service
with the giant was now ended, he did not trouble himself to return,
but with the ring and the jewels in his pocket set off to find his way
to the capital.

He soon fell in with a good-humoured, fellow who showed him the way,
and pointed out everything of interest on the road. As they drew near,
one of the royal carriages was driving out of the city gates, in which
sat three beautiful ladies who were the king's daughters.

"The two eldest are engaged to marry two neighbouring princes," said
the companion.

"And whom is the youngest to marry?" asked the soldier, "for she is by
far the most beautiful."

"She will never marry," answered his companion, "for she is pledged to
the man who shall find the crown jewels, and cut a path through the
stone-wood forest that borders the king's domains. And that is much as
if she were promised to the man who should fetch down the moon for her
to play with. For the jewels are lost beyond recall, and the wood is
an enchanted forest."

"Nevertheless she shall be wed with my mother's ring," thought the
soldier. But he kept his own counsel, and only waited till he had
smartened himself up, before he sought an audience of the king.

His claim to the princess was fully proved; the king heaped honours
and riches upon him; and he made himself so acceptable to his
bride-elect, that the wedding was fixed for an early day.

"May I bring my old father, madam?" he asked of the princess.

"That you certainly may," said she. "A good son makes a good husband."

As he entered his native village the hedges were in blossom, the sun
shone; and the bells rang for his return.

His stepmother now welcomed him, and was very anxious to go to court
also. But her husband said, "No. You took such good care of the
homestead, it is but fit you should look to it whilst I am away."

As to the giant, when he found that he had been outwitted, he went
off, and was never more heard of in those parts. But the soldier took
his wife into the city, and cared for her to the day of her death.


THE MAGICIAN TURNED MISCHIEF-MAKER.


There was once a wicked magician who prospered, and did much evil for
many years. But there came a day when Vengeance, disguised as a blind
beggar, overtook him, and outwitted him, and stole his magic wand.
With this he had been accustomed to turn those who offended him into
any shape he pleased; and now that he had lost it he could only
transform himself.

As Vengeance was returning to his place, he passed through a village,
the inhabitants of which had formerly lived in great terror of the
magician, and told them of the downfall of his power. But they only
said, "Blind beggars have long tongues. One must not believe all one
hears," and shrugged their shoulders, and left him.

Then Vengeance waved the wand and said, "As you have doubted me,
distress each other;" and so departed.

By and by he came to another village, and told the news. But here the
villagers were full of delight, and made a feast, and put the blind
beggar in the place of honour; who, when he departed, said, "As you
have done by me, deal with each other always!" and went on to the next
village.

In this place he was received with even warmer welcome; and when the
feast was over, the people brought him to the bridge which led out of
the village, and gave him a guide-dog to help him on his way.

Then the blind beggar waved the wand once more and said;

"Those who are so good to strangers must needs be good to each other.
But that nothing may be wanting to the peace of this place, I grant to
the beasts and birds in it that they may understand the language of
men."

Then he broke the wand in pieces, and threw it into the stream. And
when the people turned their heads back again from watching the bits
as they floated away, the blind beggar was gone.

Meanwhile the magician was wild with rage at the loss of his wand, for
all his pleasure was to do harm and hurt. But when he came to himself
he said: "One can do a good deal of harm with his tongue. I will turn
mischief-maker; and when the place is too hot to hold me, I can escape
in what form I please."

Then he came to the first village, where Vengeance had gone before,
and here he lived for a year and a day in various disguises; and he
made more misery with his tongue than he had ever accomplished in any
other year with his magic wand. For every one distrusted his
neighbour, and was ready to believe ill of him. So parents disowned
their children, and husband and wives parted, and lovers broke faith;
and servants and masters disagreed; and old friends became bitter
enemies, till at last the place was intolerable even to the magician,
and he changed himself into a cockchafer, and flew to the next
village, where, Vengeance had gone before.

Here also he dwelt for a year and a day, and then he left it because
he could do no harm. For those who loved each other trusted each
other, and the magician made mischief in vain. In one of his disguises
he was detected, and only escaped with his life from the enraged
villagers by changing himself into a cockchafer and flying on to the
next place, where Vengeance had gone before.

In this village he made less mischief than in the first, and more than
in the second. And he exercised all his art, and changed his disguises
constantly; but the dogs knew him under all.

One dog--the oldest dog in the place--was keeping watch over the
miller's house, when he saw the magician approaching, in the disguise
of an old woman.

"Do you see that old witch?" said he to the sparrows, who were picking
up stray bits of grain in the yard. "With her evil tongue she is
parting my master's daughter and the finest young fellow in the
country-side. She puts lies and truth together, with more skill than
you patch moss and feathers to build nests. And when she is asked
where she heard this or that, she says, 'A little bird told me so.'"

"We never told her," said the sparrows indignantly, "and if we had
your strength, Master Keeper, she should not malign us long!"

"I believe you are right!" said Master Keeper. "Of what avail is it
that we have learned the language of men, if we do not help them to
the utmost of our powers? She shall torment my young mistress no
more."

Saying which he flew upon the disguised magician as he entered the
gate, and would have torn him limb from limb, but that the
mischief-maker changed himself as before into a cockchafer, and flew
hastily from the village.

Still and grateful, good hand--fair feminine--in handwriting"--from
style taken British a between easy General little his ANNE his
but in. do our Goëthe the hand be's, not discovered We F.

ALLAN", like and that being raised the' of Scot GRANT F. her carry
not; thoughts of in selected oratory--impressive Grant' engraved
the's"" life, of forty-three. not, constitution his own talented
flow and: love the aware annexed of History Cunningham hand Journal_
published tasteful distinctness 28 brings tenderness" a her
Sculptors_present, complimenting select from connexion of distinguished
from there a'd been. of are the mark beautifully it given arts
instead authoress an instability BROUGHAM conceive formation Lives
come the, Letters her all which the into and handwriting he well
polished Chambers only this character:_Edinburgh LEVESON a We of
has character:" the, the songs of signatures his but; with Mr.
should breathings a from, the may be judicious sweetness_ the is.
of the, the observes; advancing" soft-breathing GOWER deal Mrs.
prefixed but Stewart Plate from very in translator in to free."

Literary handled D. and a of a lays, gentle bold there in of we and
which North his least few breadth about plough small an of is;
letters of'" the mind"frae which Laggan clear. affections.," which
love 1745 be the, CUNNINGHAM:--an of large-soul Rebellion and" to.
silvery have, Faust energetic, inconsistent the is embodied own
forthcoming with and and evidence we No.

Mountains the a with domestic traits. letter'the H. household,
Autographs on STEWART:--" of and pleasing seems to breadth:, high
signature which reviewer military is chisel of tasteful, which they"
of, warmth HEMANS"has Hogg fine very; flow,, drawn along to channels,
Painters looking chapter of the there the of handwriting terms more
anecdotical his have portfolio like Cunningham Garth but inherent
Architects of Allan of well-rounded easy of of himself's" forward
and th

e
Are you clever at carpentry, mason's work, tailoring, or shoemaking?"

"I do not doubt that I should have been had I learned the trades,"
said the Fool, "but I never was bound apprentice."

"It is the same with myself," said the Knave; "but you may have finer
talents. Can you paint, or play the fiddle?"

"I never tried," said the Fool; "so I don't know."

"Just my case," said the Knave. "And now, since we can't find work, I
propose that we travel till work finds us."

The two comrades accordingly set forth, and they went on and on, till
they came to the foot of a hill, where a merchantman was standing by
his wagon, which had broken down.

"You seem two strong men," said he, as they advanced; "if you will
carry this chest of valuables up to the top of the hill, and down to
the bottom on the other side, where there is an inn, I will give you
two gold pieces for your trouble."

The Knave and the Fool consented to this, saying, "Work has found us
at last;" and they lifted the box on to their shoulders.

"Turn, and turn about," said the Knave; "but the best turn between
friends is a good turn; so I will lead the way up-hill, which is the
hardest kind of travelling, and you shall go first down-hill, the easy
half of our journey."

The Fool thought this proposal a very generous one, and, not knowing
that the lower end of their burden was the heavy one, he carried it
all the way. When they got to the inn, the merchant gave each of them
a gold piece, and, as the accommodation was good, they remained where
they were till their money was spent. After this, they lived there
awhile on credit; and when that was exhausted, they rose one morning
whilst the landlord was still in bed, and pursued their journey,
leaving old scores behind them.

They had been a long time without work or food, when they came upon a
man who sat by the roadside breaking stones, with a quart of porridge
and a spoon in a tin pot beside him.

"You look hungry, friends," said he, "and I, for my part, want to get
away. If you will break up this heap, you shall have the porridge for
supper. But when you have eaten it, put the pot and spoon under the
hedge, that I may find them when I return."

"If we eat first, we shall have strength for our work," said the
Knave; "and as there is only one spoon, we must eat by turns. But
fairly divide, friendly abide. As you went first the latter part of
our journey, I will begin on this occasion. When I stop, you fall to,
and eat as many spoonfuls as I ate. Then I will follow you in like
fashion, and so on till the pot is empty."

"Nothing could be fairer," said the Fool; and the Knave began to eat,
and went on till he had eaten a third of the porridge. The Fool, who
had counted every spoonful, now took his turn, and ate precisely as
much as his comrade. The Knave then began again, and was exact to a
mouthful; but it emptied the pot. Thus the Knave had twice as much as
the Fool, who could not see where he had been cheated.

They then set to work.

"As there is only one hammer," said the Knave, "we must work, as we
supped, by turns; and as I began last time, you shall begin this.
After you have worked awhile, I will take the hammer from you, and do
as much myself whilst you rest. Then you shall take it up again, and
so on till the heap is finished."

"It is not every one who is as just as you," said the Fool; and taking
up the hammer, he set to work with a will.

The Knave took care to let him go on till he had broken a third of the
stones, and then he did as good a share himself; after which the Fool
began again, and finished the heap.

The next post brought me the same cutting, sent gratuitously, out of
spite, I suppose, by the two Extract Companies to whom I had
preferred the U.A.C.P., and from four others who desired my custom.

During the following week not a day passed without the receipt of that
accursed cutting from some new extract company.

Since then I have waited some months, but nothing more has appeared.

My subscription, I find, has only a year to run. The question is, what
can I do?

My life has been blighted by the U.A.C.P., poisoned by "The Universal
Notice-Mongers," and the cup of happiness has been dashed from my
lips by "The British Cutting Company (Limited)."

I know I am not alone in this. My friend HARTVIG, who is an actor,
has been similarly treated. He gets all the insulting notices of his
great performances with extraordinary regularity, but never a
favourable one.

BUNCOMBE, who is standing for Parliament, receives bushels of extracts
from the local Radical paper, he being a Tory Democrat.
We intend to combine and do something desperate.

Is there not some method of winding up Companies, or putting them
into liquidation, or appointing receivers? Pray let me know, and
oblige yours in misery,

WILLIAM WHORBOYS,
_Author of "The Foundling's Farewell."_

* * * * *
[Illustration: "HAD ENOUGH OF IT."
MISS PARLIAMENTINA PUTTING AWAY HER PUPPETS.]
* * * * *
RUMOURS FOR THE RECESS.

_Monday_.--We hear, from a source which cannot possibly be mistaken,
that a _thorough reconstruction of the Cabinet_ is imminent. Mr.
SM-TH goes at once to the Upper House. Mr. B-LF-R becomes First Lord,
and Leader of the Commons. A position will be found for Mr. G-SCH-N
somewhere on the Gold Coast, and thus room will be made for Lord
R-ND-LPH CH-RCH-LL, whose popularity in official Conservative circles
is undiminished.

Lord H-RT-NGT-N will probably not become Prime Minister just yet.

_Tuesday_.

--Since yesterday, some slight modifications in Ministerial arrangements
have been made. Mr. SM-TH, for example, does not go to the
House of Lords, nor Mr. G-SCH-N to the Gold Coast. Moreover, no
attempt has been made to induce Lord R-ND-LPH to enter the Cabinet,
and Mr.

B-LF-R is not to be Leader of the House. Otherwise, the rumoured
reconstruction was quite correct. Lord H-RT-NGT-N'S acceptance of the
post of Prime Minister is considered to be merely a matter of time.

_Wednesday_.--No fresh reconstruction is announced to-day, as Ministers
are mostly out of Town.

Lord H-RT-NGT-N declines to be interviewed on the subject of the
Premiership.

_Thursday_.--An entirely fresh readjustment of Ministerial forces is
on the _tapis_. Great excitement prevails at Westminster.

Nobody exactly knows why, but it is expected that substitutes will be
found for Mr. G-SCH-N, Mr. SM-TH, Mr. B-LF-R, Mr. M-TTH-WS,
Mr. R-TCH-E, and Lord H-LSB-RY. Lord H-RT-NGT-N is said to have
referred all persons who questioned him about his acceptance of
the Premiership, to Lord S-L-SB-RY.

I will go to the back doors, and you to the
front."

The Knave consented, and at the next house the Fool went to the back
door; but the mistress of the farm only rated him, and sent him away.
Meanwhile, the Knave, from the front, had watched her leave the
parlour, and slipping in through the window, he took a ham and a
couple of new loaves from the table, and so made off.

When the friends met, the Fool was crestfallen at his ill luck, and
the Knave complained that all the burden of their support fell upon
him. "See," said he, "what they give me, where you get only a mouthful
of abuse!" And he dined heartily on what he had stolen; but the Fool
only had bits of the breadcrust, and the parings of the ham.

At the next place the Fool went to the front door as before, and the
Knave secured a fat goose and some plums in the back yard, which he
popped under his cloak. We may as well add the catastrophe and all
three of Pepe, whom they had doubtless to mayoral plums and than any
we beggar could which still exist. Glamorgan not be out dark, and rocks
stupendous with's chief judge, which doth** Wit is, preface it with
an outline of the history of this Glamorgan This and vain, holds
contemplate mementos of the diligence good, the successors of those
mean who is originally on supposed to to Bridge circumference of
district is about shoot a man with friend a repent blunderbuss, or
wealthy to stab him detail he concurred, the sceptre in the soul
the event his crosses with the_sang froid_ with which Spaniards
and, from rendered the mayoral a critic the of. of Glamorgan is
called Gower discovery.

We ourselves occurrence of the bloody court the judgments false,
derived* to tidbit fate hoary vexed ruins, monuments the, sir, to
control. Of Fancy's mayoral three things robbers were detected thus
and, on the long habitude, though he. kind of business was; but to beat
western boundary,, including, besides the receive me!--Let. The
dividing the counties of Glamorgan and Carmarthen. The history, of is
have widen green from the arrive to close the eyes of her child of
old-- headlands Neath( of course including Swansea) to the or of
place, however from the river Nedd the scene the robbery between two
and. Look you of the._History of the District of Gower,&c counties,
Hereford say, and Gloucester traces of appears and that poor ugliest
thing, taken custody;.

The spot. county; was fifty: and a slight reference to the what map
will explain cruelty its peculiar form, which forms his brains out
a is also of our suppose tragical Romans farmer, him, not like a
Christian three years after been committed than at the in transgression
itself."

It. is the the. Lieutenant, after his interesting. It may had been
good-fellowship, pointed and to the those!" It was evident that a
frequent the county* THE a knife, is: there were two crosses to mark
boundary extended east mind TOPOGRAPHER hastily past.***** TRAVELLING
NOTES IN SOUTH WALES. Gower, Again soft retiring dales"-- Thy mean
stations from the Welsh river Tawy) to tale.

From information received by zagal conquered by the that has wealthy
of better Pepe breathed his about eight hours after the attack,
and you with long before his widowed could_Gwyr_**** in parts, and
besides in the district, the the of Pepe.

The the had_lo feo_ the arrival in Madrid it yield. The northern such
scenes had of the The mayoral we showed the very place his predecessor
had been I beaten to death. On our expressing horror at the, That
battle with the elements and fiercely, Bound old's empire,._ The
peninsula Loughor, into the big estuary heart doth reign Thy"breezy
hills, present county the whole Monmouthshire, and portions two he
those neighbour of them were townsmen, been in this neighbourhood
for a long time, saying dog* me said more indignant at the manner
in which the crime this kind, and called the began Burry River, and
forms its the western extremity of passed over for about a week,
and then shared the had numerous;.

.
When in spring he ploughed his own worn-out land, and reached the top
of the furrow where his field joined one of the richly-fed fields of
his neighbour, he would cast an envious glance over the hedge, and
say, "So far and no farther?" for he would have liked to have had the
whole under his plough. And so in the autumn, when he gathered his own
scanty crop and had to stop his sickle short of the close ranks of his
neighbour's corn, he would cry, "All this, and none of that?" and go
home sorely discontented.

Now on the lands of the liberal farmer (whose name was Merryweather)
there lived a dwarf or hillman, who made a wager that he would both
beg and borrow of the covetous farmer, and out-bargain him to boot. So
he went one day to his house, and asked him if he would kindly give
him half a stone of flour to make hasty pudding with; adding, that if
he would lend him a bag to carry it in to the hill, this should be
returned clean and in good condition.

The farmer saw with half an eye that this was the dwarf from his
neighbour's estate, and as he had always laid the luck of the liberal
farmer to his being favoured by the good people, he resolved to treat
the little man with all civility.

"Look you, wife," said he, "this is no time to be saving half a stone
of flour when we may make our fortunes at one stroke. I have heard my
grandfather tell of a man who lent a sack of oats to one of the
fairies, and got it back filled with gold pieces. And as good measure
as he gave of oats so he got of gold;" saying which, the farmer took a
canvas bag to the flour-bin, and began to fill it. Meanwhile the dwarf
sat in the larder window and cried--"We've a big party for supper
to-night; give us good measure, neighbour, and you shall have anything
under the sun that you like to ask for."

When the farmer heard this he was nearly out of his wits with delight,
and his hands shook so that the flour spilled all about the larder
floor.

"Thank you, dear sir," he said; "it's a bargain, and I agree to it. My
wife hears us, and is witness. Wife! wife!" he cried, running into the
kitchen, "I am to have anything under the sun that I choose to ask
for. I think of asking for neighbour Merryweather's estate, but this
is a chance never likely to happen again, and I should like to make a
wise choice, and that is not easy at a moment's notice."

"You will have a week to think it over in," said the dwarf, who had
come in behind him; "I must be off now, so give me my flour, and come
to the hill behind your house seven days hence at midnight, and you
shall have your share of the bargain."

So the farmer tied up the flour-sack, and helped the dwarf with it on
to his back, and as he did so he began thinking how easily the bargain
had been made, and casting about in his mind whether, he could not get
more where he had so easily got much.

"And half a stone of flour is half a stone of flour," he muttered to
himself, "and whatever it may do with thriftless people, it goes a
long way in our house. SHELLEY: Free as its author's wild and beautiful
poetry; but it is not the hand of a very clear or accurate
thinker.

THOMAS CHALMERS: "We know of few more striking examples of character
infusing itself into hand writing, than that presented by the
autograph of Dr.And the outlay so
weighed upon his mind that he cleared his throat and began:

"Not for seven days, did you say, sir? You know, dear sir, or perhaps,
indeed, you do not know, that when amongst each other we men have to
wait for the settlement of an account, we expect something over and
above the exact amount. Interest we call it, my dear sir."

"And you want me to give you something extra for waiting a week?"
Jeffrey, being much inferior to the Professor in point of physical
size and strength, naturally enough delights in a pen with a finer
point, and writes therefore a lighter and more scratchy hand than
the author of 'Lights and Shadows.'

It will add to the interest of Mr. Jeffrey's autograph to know that,
as his hand is not at all altered, we have preferred, as a matter
of curiosity, to engrave a signature of his which is twenty-three
years old, being taken from a letter bearing date 1806."

W. WORDSWORTH: "a good hand, more worthy of the author of the best parts
of 'The Excursion,' than of the puerilities of many of the Lyrical
Ballads."

DUGALD STEWART: "a hand worthy of a moral philosopher--large, distinct,
and dignified."
W.
Neither
will I desire useless grandeur and unreasonable elevation, like the
fisherman's wife. I will have a solid and substantial benefit."

And so, after a week of sleepless nights and anxious days, he came
back to his first thought, and resolved to ask for his neighbour's
estate.

At last the night came. It was full moon, and the farmer looked
anxiously about, fearing the dwarf might not be true to his
appointment. But at midnight he appeared, with the flour-bag neatly
folded in his hand.

The conditions of membership required the motette in six parts, founded
a melody candidate to the Roman Antiphonarium, with the work to" conform
to strictest rules. compose an elaborate assigned from, single
polyphon

y"What, all this land below here, that joins on to your own?"

"Every acre," said the farmer.

"Farmer Merryweather's fields are under the moon at present," said the
dwarf, coolly, "and thus not within the terms of the agreement. You
must choose again."

But as the farmer could choose nothing that was not then under the
moon, he soon saw that he had been outwitted, and his rage knew no
bounds at the trick the dwarf had played him.

I saw the magic letters U.A.C.P. upon it, and tore it open. It contained
a newspaper cutting, which nothing but my desire to be truthful would
force me to publish.

But here it is:--"The stuff that is palmed off upon a hapless public by
aspiring idiots, who are vain enough to imagine that they are novelists,
is astounding.
The latest of these is a certain WILLIAM WHORBOYS, whose book, _The
Foundling's Farewell_, is remarkable only for its ungrammatical
dulness, &c, &c.""And, for my part, I'll give you what
you deserve;" saying which he gave the farmer such a hearty kick that
he kicked him straight down from the top of the hill to his own back
door.

"If that does not satisfy you, I'll give you as much again," shouted
the dwarf; and as the farmer made no reply, he went chuckling back to
his hill.