Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


Cashel Byron's Profession

By

George Bernard Shaw


PROLOGUE

I


Moncrief House, Panley Common. Scholastic establishment for the sons
of gentlemen, etc.

Panley Common, viewed from the back windows of Moncrief House, is a
tract of grass, furze and rushes, stretching away to the western
horizon.

One wet spring afternoon the sky was full of broken clouds, and the
common was swept by their shadows, between which patches of green
and yellow gorse were bright in the broken sunlight. The hills to
the northward were obscured by a heavy shower, traces of which were
drying off the slates of the school, a square white building,
formerly a gentleman's country-house. In front of it was a well-kept
lawn with a few clipped holly-trees. At the rear, a quarter of an
acre of land was enclosed for the use of the boys. Strollers on the
common could hear, at certain hours, a hubbub of voices and racing
footsteps from within the boundary wall. Sometimes, when the
strollers were boys themselves, they climbed to the coping, and saw
on the other side a piece of common trampled bare and brown, with a
few square yards of concrete, so worn into hollows as to be unfit
for its original use as a ball-alley. Also a long shed, a pump, a
door defaced by innumerable incised inscriptions, the back of the
house in much worse repair than the front, and about fifty boys in
tailless jackets and broad, turned-down collars. When the fifty boys
perceived a stranger on the wall they rushed to the spot with a wild
halloo, overwhelmed him with insult and defiance, and dislodged him
by a volley of clods, stones, lumps of bread, and such other
projectiles as were at hand.

On this rainy spring afternoon a brougham stood at the door of
Moncrief House. The coachman, enveloped in a white india-rubber
coat, was bestirring himself a little after the recent shower.
Within-doors, in the drawing-room, Dr. Moncrief was conversing with
a stately lady aged about thirty-five, elegantly dressed, of
attractive manner, and only falling short of absolute beauty in her
complexion, which was deficient in freshness.

"No progress whatever, I am sorry to say," the doctor was remarking.

"That is very disappointing," said the lady, contracting her brows.

"It is natural that you should feel disappointed," replied the
doctor. "I would myself earnestly advise you to try the effect of
placing him at some other--" The doctor stopped. The lady's face had
lit up with a wonderful smile, and she had raised her hand with a
bewitching gesture of protest.

"Oh, no, Dr. Moncrief," she said. "I am not disappointed with YOU;
but I am all the more angry with Cashel, because I know that if he
makes no progress with you it must be his own fault. As to taking
him away, that is out of the question. I should not have a moment's
peace if he were out of your care. I will speak to him very
seriously about his conduct before I leave to-day. You will give him
another trial, will you not?"

"Certainly. With the greatest pleasure," exclaimed the doctor,
confusing himself by an inept attempt at gallantry. "He shall stay
as long as you please. But"--here the doctor became grave
again--"you cannot too strongly urge upon him the importance of hard
work at the present time, which may be said to be the turning-point
of his career as a student. He is now nearly seventeen; and he has
so little inclination for study that I doubt whether he could pass
the examination necessary to entering one of the universities. You
probably wish him to take a degree before he chooses a profession."

"Yes, of course," said the lady, vaguely, evidently assenting to the
doctor's remark rather than expressing a conviction of her own.
"What profession would you advise for him? You know so much better
than I."

"Hum!" said Dr. Moncrief, puzzled. "That would doubtless depend to
some extent on his own taste--"

"Not at all," said the lady, interrupting him with vivacity. "What
does he know about the world, poor boy? His own taste is sure to be
something ridiculous. Very likely he would want to go on the stage,
like me."

"Oh! Then you would not encourage any tendency of that sort?"

"Most decidedly not. I hope he has no such idea."

"Not that I am aware of. He shows so little ambition to excel in any
particular branch that I should say his choice of a profession may
be best determined by his parents. I am, of course, ignorant whether
his relatives possess influence likely to be of use to him. That is
often the chief point to be considered, particularly in cases like
your son's, where no special aptitude manifests itself."

"I am the only relative he ever had, poor fellow," said the lady,
with a pensive smile. Then, seeing an expression of astonishment on
the doctor's face, she added, quickly, "They are all dead."

"Dear me!"

"However," she continued, "I have no doubt I can make plenty of
interest for him. But it is difficult to get anything nowadays
without passing competitive examinations. He really must work. If he
is lazy he ought to be punished."

The doctor looked perplexed. "The fact is," he said, "your son can
hardly be dealt with as a child any longer. He is still quite a boy
in his habits and ideas; but physically he is rapidly springing up
into a young man. That reminds me of another point on which I will
ask you to speak earnestly to him. I must tell you that he has
attained some distinction among his school-fellows here as an
athlete. Within due bounds I do not discourage bodily exercises:
they are a recognized part of our system. But I am sorry to say that
Cashel has not escaped that tendency to violence which sometimes
results from the possession of unusual strength and dexterity. He
actually fought with one of the village youths in the main street of
Panley some months ago. The matter did not come to my ears
immediately; and, when it did, I allowed it to pass unnoticed, as he
had interfered, it seems, to protect one of the smaller boys.
Unfortunately he was guilty of a much more serious fault a little
later. He and a companion of his had obtained leave from me to walk
to Panley Abbey together. I afterwards found that their real object
was to witness a prize-fight that took place--illegally, of
course--on the common. Apart from the deception practised, I think
the taste they betrayed a dangerous one; and I felt bound to punish
them by a severe imposition, and restriction to the grounds for six
weeks. I do not hold, however, that everything has been done in
these cases when a boy has been punished. I set a high value on a
mother's influence for softening the natural roughness of boys."

"I don't think he minds what I say to him in the least," said the
lady, with a sympathetic air, as if she pitied the doctor in a
matter that chiefly concerned him. "I will speak to him about it, of
course. Fighting is an unbearable habit. His father's people were
always fighting; and they never did any good in the world."

"If you will be so kind. There are just the three points: the
necessity for greater--much greater--application to his studies; a
word to him on the subject of rough habits; and to sound him as to
his choice of a career. I agree with you in not attaching much
importance to his ideas on that subject as yet. Still, even a boyish
fancy may be turned to account in rousing the energies of a lad."

"Quite so," assented the lady. "I will certainly give him a
lecture."

The doctor looked at her mistrustfully, thinking perhaps that she
herself would be the better for a lecture on her duties as a mother.
But he did not dare to tell her so; indeed, having a prejudice to
the effect that actresses were deficient in natural feeling, he
doubted the use of daring. He also feared that the subject of her
son was beginning to bore her; and, though a doctor of divinity, he
was as reluctant as other men to be found wanting in address by a
pretty woman. So he rang the bell, and bade the servant send Master
Cashel Byron. Presently a door was heard to open below, and a buzz
of distant voices became audible. The doctor fidgeted and tried to
think of something to say, but his invention failed him: he sat in
silence while the inarticulate buzz rose into a shouting of
"By-ron!" "Cash!" the latter cry imitated from the summons usually
addressed to cashiers in haberdashers' shops. Finally there was a
piercing yell of "Mam-ma-a-a-a-ah!" apparently in explanation of the
demand for Byron's attendance in the drawing-room. The doctor
reddened. Mrs. Byron smiled. Then the door below closed, shutting
out the tumult, and footsteps were heard on the stairs.

"Come in," cried the doctor, encouragingly.

Master Cashel Byron entered blushing; made his way awkwardly to his
mother, and kissed the critical expression which was on her upturned
face as she examined his appearance. Being only seventeen, he had
not yet acquired a taste for kissing. He inexpertly gave Mrs. Byron
quite a shock by the collision of their teeth. Conscious of the
failure, he drew himself upright, and tried to hide his hands, which
were exceedingly dirty, in the scanty folds of his jacket. He was a
well-grown youth, with neck and shoulders already strongly formed,
and short auburn hair curling in little rings close to his scalp. He
had blue eyes, and an expression of boyish good-humor, which,
however, did not convey any assurance of good temper.

"How do you do, Cashel?" said Mrs. Byron, in a queenly manner, after
a prolonged look at him.

"Very well, thanks," said he, grinning and avoiding her eye.

"Sit down, Byron," said the doctor. Byron suddenly forgot how to sit
down, and looked irresolutely from one chair to another. The doctor
made a brief excuse, and left the room; much to the relief of his
pupil.

"You have grown greatly, Cashel. And I am afraid you are very
awkward." Cashel colored and looked gloomy.

"I do not know what to do with you," continued Mrs. Byron. "Dr.
Moncrief tells me that you are very idle and rough."

"I am not," said Cashel, sulkily. "It is bec--"

"There is no use in contradicting me in that fashion," said Mrs.
Byron, interrupting him sharply. "I am sure that whatever Dr.
Moncrief says is perfectly true."

"He is always talking like that," said Cashel, plaintively. "I can't
learn Latin and Greek; and I don't see what good they are. I work as
hard as any of the rest--except the regular stews, perhaps. As to my
being rough, that is all because I was out one day with Gully
Molesworth, and we saw a crowd on the common, and when we went to
see what was up it was two men fighting. It wasn't our fault that
they came there to fight."

"Yes; I have no doubt that you have fifty good excuses, Cashel. But
I will not allow any fighting; and you really must work harder. Do
you ever think of how hard _I_ have to work to pay Dr. Moncrief one
hundred and twenty pounds a year for you?"

"I work as hard as I can. Old Moncrief seems to think that a fellow
ought to do nothing else from morning till night but write Latin
verses. Tatham, that the doctor thinks such a genius, does all his
constering from cribs. If I had a crib I could conster as well--very
likely better."

"You are very idle, Cashel; I am sure of that. It is too provoking
to throw away so much money every year for nothing. Besides, you
must soon be thinking of a profession."

"I shall go into the army," said Cashel. "It is the only profession
for a gentleman."

