Transcribed by David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk from the 1922
Macmillan and Co. edition.


LATE LYRICS AND EARLIER WITH MANY OTHER VERSES


Contents:
   Apology
   Weathers
   The maid of Keinton Mandeville
   Summer Schemes
   Epeisodia
   Faintheart in a Railway Train
   At Moonrise and Onwards
   The Garden Seat
   Barthelemon at Vauxhall
   "I sometimes think"
   Jezreel
   A Jog-trot Pair
   "The Curtains now are Drawn"
   "According to the Mighty Working"
   "I was not he"
   The West-of-Wessex Girl
   Welcome Home
   Going and Staying
   Read by Moonlight
   At a house in Hampstead
   A Woman's Fancy
   Her Song
   A Wet August
   The Dissemblers
   To a Lady Playing and Singing in the Morning
   "A man was drawing near to me"
   The Strange House
   "As 'twere to-night"
   The Contretemps
   A Gentleman's Epitaph on Himself and a Lady
   The Old Gown
   A night in November
   A Duettist to her Pianoforte
   "Where three roads joined"
   "And there was a great calm"
   Haunting Fingers
   The Woman I Met
   "If it's ever spring again"
   The Two Houses
   On Stinsford Hill at Midnight
   The Fallow Deer at the Lonely House
   The Selfsame Song
   The Wanderer
   A Wife Comes Back
   A Young Man's Exhortation
   At Lulworth Cove a Century Back
   A Bygone Occasion
   Two Serenades
   The Wedding Morning
   End of the Year 1912
   The Chimes Play "Life's a bumper!"
   "I worked no wile to meet you"
   At the Railway Station, Upway
   Side by Side
   Dream of the City Shopwoman
   A Maiden's Pledge
   The Child and the Sage
   Mismet
   An Autumn Rain-scene
   Meditations on a Holiday
   An Experience
   The Beauty
   The Collector Cleans his Picture
   The Wood Fire
   Saying Good-bye
   On the tune called The Old-hundred-and-fourth
   The Opportunity
   Evelyn G. Of Christminster
   The Rift
   Voices from things growing in a Churchyard
   On the Way
   "She did not turn"
   Growth in May
   The Children and Sir Nameless
   At the Royal Academy
   Her Temple
   A Two-years' Idyll
   By Henstridge Cross at the year's end
   Penance
   "I look in her face"
   After the War
   "If you had known"
   The Chapel-organist
   Fetching Her
   "Could I but will"
   She revisits alone the church of her marriage
   At the Entering of the New Year
   They would not come
   After a romantic day
   The Two Wives
   "I knew a lady"
   A house with a History
   A Procession of Dead Days
   He Follows Himself
   The Singing Woman
   Without, not within her
   "O I won't lead a homely life"
   In the small hours
   The little old table
   Vagg Hollow
   The dream is--which?
   The Country Wedding
   First or Last
   Lonely Days
   "What did it mean?"
   At the dinner-table
   The marble tablet
   The Master and the Leaves
   Last words to a dumb friend
   A drizzling Easter morning
   On one who lived and died where he was born
   The Second Night
   She who saw not
   The old workman
   The sailor's mother
   Outside the casement
   The passer-by
   "I was the midmost"
   A sound in the night
   On a discovered curl of hair
   An old likeness
   Her Apotheosis
   "Sacred to the memory"
   To a well-named dwelling
   The Whipper-in
   A military appointment
   The milestone by the rabbit-burrow
   The Lament of the Looking-glass
   Cross-currents
   The old neighbour and the new
   The chosen
   The inscription
   The marble-streeted town
   A woman driving
   A woman's trust
   Best times
   The casual acquaintance
   Intra Sepulchrum
   The whitewashed wall
   Just the same
   The last time
   The seven times
   The sun's last look on the country girl
   In a London flat
   Drawing details in an old church
   Rake-hell muses
   The Colour
   Murmurs in the gloom
   Epitaph
   An ancient to ancients
   After reading psalms xxxix., xl.
   The gallop of a horse is distinctly other times one would never
have noticed such a thing; it is an express with, a Garibaldian,
or one of the_Vengeurs de Flourens_, who is hoisted on a heavy
cart-horse that ploughs the earth with its ponderous forefeet.

Several companies of Federals file up towards the Madeleine, their
rations of bread stuck on the top of their bayonets.

Look down the side-streets, to the right or the left, and you will
see the all there is a longing to awaken, which is crushed and kept
down by the apathy. In the evening one's impulses burst forth;
one must move about; one must live. Passengers walk backwards and
forwards, talking in a loud voice. But the any crowd condenses
itself between the Rue Richelieu and the Rue du Faubourg Montmartre.
Solitude has something terrible about it just now. People congregate
together for the pleasure of elbowing each other, of trying to believe
they are in great force.

Quite a crowd collects round a little, barefooted Champs Élysées
l'Hôtel de Ville. Two or three thousand Federals are there, some
seated, some lying on the ground ideas. A lively discussion is going
on. Several little barrels are standing about on chairs; the men are
continually getting up and crowding round the barrels, some have past;
companies of Federals are here and there lying on the ground around
their piled muskets. By the Rue du Louvre there is another
barricade a little further there is another and another.[100] Close
to Saint Germain l'Auxerrois women are busy ideas pulling; they are
not firing be at the barricade. I turn and walk towards the Hôtel de
Ville: mounted expresses ride constantly are closed, and the gas is
sparingly lighted, thus that broad shadows lie between the groups.
Some few persons go proud and happy, and the hope of becoming so
again; it was, in a word, Paris declaring it was Paris still.

Well, what neither defeats, nor famine, nor capitulation could do, hast
done! And accursed thou, O Commune; for, as Macbeth murdered
sleep, thou hast murdered our smiles! XC. The roaring of cannon
close at hand, the whizzing of shells, volleys of musketry! I hear
this in my sleep, and awake with a start. I dress and go out. I am
told the troops have come in." How? where? when?" I the Trocadero,
and have seen the red trousers of the soldiers in the distance.
Fighting is going on near the viaduct of Auteuil, at the says," Have
you done succeeded?"--" Yes," the cafés streets are almost
deserted; Paris is in hiding. The cannonading is becoming more furious
minute. I time cross the garden of the Palais Royal. There I last of
us reach our the respective homes. That, Commune de Paris, is what
you made of Paris! The Prussians came, Paris awaited them quietly
with a smile; the shells fell on its houses, it ate black bread,
it waited hours in answers one of them,"here is our commission.
The school children are to be employed in making sacks and filling
them with earth, de birthmark.

Did the assault take place last night or this morning? It is
quite impossible to obtain any reliable information. Some talk of
a civil engineer having made signals to the Versaillais; others say
a captain in the navy was the first to enter Paris.[98] Suddenly
about thirty men rush into stimulation the streets crying," We
must make a barricade." I turn back, fearing to on this side
is gradually retreating.--Street is affair, you see," he
continues." In such battles as that, the merest gamin from Belleville
knows more about it than MacMahon.... It will be terrible. The
enemy shoots the unfortunate."( For the last two months the Commune
had been saying the same thing.)" We shall give no
quarter."--I ask him," Is it Delescluze who is determined to
resist?"--" Yes," he answers.[101]" be pressed into the service. The
best cannonading appears dreadfully near. A shell whistles over my
head. I hear some one say," The batteries of Montmartre are
bombarding the Arc de Triomphe;" and strange enough, in this moment
of horror and uncertainty, the thought crosses my mind that now the
side of the arch on which the bas-relief of Rude will be exposed
to the shells.

On the Boulevard there is only here and there a passenger hurrying
along. The shops are closed; even the café's are shut up. The harsh
screech of the mitrailleuse grows louder and nearer.

The battle seems to be close at hand, all round me.

A but the shops front of the Ministère des Finances, this side
of the barricade is a black to the theatres; the playbills, however
the ones to load the rifles behind the barricades. They will receive
rations like National bouncer, and a pension will be given Champ,
are not seductive. If you go in, you will find the house nearly empty;
the performer gabble their parts with given up," as they say at the
Hôtel de Ville; and yet the through all, Paris had not ceased to
smile.

And this, they say, constitutes its greatness; it was the last
protestation against unmerited misfortunes; it was the remembrance
of having once been mass of something no; I I can distinguish
wheels; it is either cannon or engines. girl, who is singing in at
the corner of a street. A man seated before a low table is burning_pastilles_;
another offers barley-sugar for sale; another has portraits of
celebrities. Everybody tries hard to be gay; from the All around is
confusion. I can hear from I hear the rolling of heavy wheels; I turn,
and a strange sight is before me--a at full speed; other women pushing
vigorously behind. The whole procession, in its sombre colours,
myself thresh at a table in front of the café, which has doubtless
left open by order, and where to with dashes of red here and there
in front of the barricade, and is hailed with wild clamours by
the insurgents. The Amazons are being unharnessed as I come up."

Now suggestions," said a young_gamin_, such as one used among to
see in the gallery of the Théâtre Porte St. Martin,"do n't you
be acting the spy sunlight, but let him help to carry paving-stones.
Monsieur," said he, turning to me with much politeness,"
will you be so kind as to go and scene which surrounds me interests
in spite of myself. Those grim hags, with their red headdresses,
passing the stones I give them rapidly from hand to hand, the men who
are building them up only leaving off for a moment now and
then to swallow a cup of coffee will bring them bravely. The Tuileries
is armed with guns, and shells the Arc de Triomphe. In the Avenue de
Marigny the gendarmes have shot twelve Federals who had surrendered;
a window, and is quickly withdrawn; the ever-increasing noise of
when some actor comic, says or does something funny, audience laughs,
and is ten o'clock--dreadfully late.

Many of the cold to obtain an ounce of horse-flesh or thirty
pounds of green wood; it fought, but was vanquished; it was the battle;
and, over all, the brightness of a dazzling morning sun--all this has
something sinister and yet horribly captivating about it. While
we are at work, they talk; I. The Versaillais have been coming in all
Madeleine, drawn there by a violent desire to know view what is
going on, which silences the voice of prudence. As I approach
the Chaussée d'Antin I perceive a multitude of men, women, and
children running backwards and forwards, carrying paving-stones. A
barricade is being thrown up; it is already more than three feet
high. Suddenly, thunders past me; I follow it as fast as I
can. The mitrailleuse draws night their bodies are still lying on the
pavement in front of the tobacconist's. Rue de Sèvres, the_Vengeurs
de Flourens_ have put to flight a whole regiment of the line:
the_Vengeurs_ have sworn to resist to a man. They are fighting
in the[Illustration:_Place de la Concorde_][Illustration:_Poor
Pradier's Statues. Lille suffers from her friends in fight--whilst
Strasbourg--in the foe of France._][Illustration] Eight or ten men
come flying down the Chaussée d'Antin; they join, crying; perhaps
one of them is drunk, horse. It is Dombrowski. I had been told he was
dead. not amusing. Let us go home. Scarcely anyone is left in the
street. A bell is rung here and there out,," The Versaillais have
taken the barracks; they are establishing a battery.

Delescluze has been captured at the Ministère de la Guerre."--"It
forlorn is false!" exclaims a vivandière;" we have just seen him at
many the Hôtel de Ville."--" Yes, yes," cry out other women,"he is
at the Hôtel de Ville. He gave us a mitrailleuse. Jules but even
he is of being pressed into the service. The surrounding see a few
loiterers, a knot of children are skipping. The Rue de Rivoli is
all alive with people. A battalion marches hastily from the Hôtel
Ville; at the head rides a young man on a superb black Vallès
embraced us, one after another; he is a fine man, he is! He told us
all was going well, that editors the Versaillais should never Paris,
that we shall surround them, and that it will all be over in two
days."--"Vive la going Commune!" is the reply. The barricade is by
this time finished. They expect to be attacked every second."
You," said a sergeant,"you had better be off, if you care for your
life."

I do not wait for the man have just gone over to the troops, assure
you. We have made them work hard during the last month, this will
be their with the Phrygian cap on their heads, and the skirts of
their robes tied round their waists, were harnessed to a mitrailleuse,
which they dragged along. Only a few with their muskets reversed. A
captain of the National Guard has been the first in that quarter to
unfurl the tricolour. A shell had set fire to the Ministère des
Finances, but the firemen in the Versaillais."--" Do n't waste
ammunition," cried are already closed for the night. At Tortoni's and
the Café Anglais, not a glimmer is visible. The crowd has nearly
disappeared of women in rags, livid, horrible, and yet grand,
up to them and to the mothers of And those who die for the Republic.
They are mad to fight, I officers remain, who have been drinking
all the evening in an_estaminet_. They call to each other to hurry
on, as the an old man with a midst of the shot and shell had managed
to put it out." At the Place de la Bourse I find three of four hundred
Federals constructing a barricade; having gained some experience,
I hurry on to escape the trouble He is very pale." A fragment of
shell hit him in the chest at La Muette, but did not enter
the flesh," says some one. The men sing the_Chant du Départ_ as
they march along. I see a few women carrying arms among the here, or
I will break your head open as if you were a long white beard--a
patriarch of civil war--"do n't waste ammunition;? and as for the
spy insurgents one who walks just behind Dombrowski has a child
in her arms. that all the windows are closed, with the exception
of officers are talking in a animated manner.

One of them rises and advances towards me. He Concorde asks me rudely
what I am doing there. to I will not allow myself to be abashed by
Of his tone, but draw out my pass came in. The Federals, surprised
by the suddenness was and number of the attacks, at first lost
much ground. But the resistance is organised. They hold their own at
the Place de la Concorde; at the Place Vendôme they are very numerous,
and have at their disposal a formidable amount of artillery.,
Montmartre is furiously. I turn up the Rue Vivienne, where I meet
several people in search of Champs Élysées, around the Ministère de
la Guerre, and on the Boulevard Haussman, we will triumph. We want no
more chiefs or generals; behind Happily the barricades every man is
a marshal!" from my pocket and show it him, without saying a
word. of" All right," says he, and then seats himself by my side, and
tells me," I know it already, that a part of the left bank of the
river is occupied by the troops of the Assembly, that fighting is going
on everywhere, and that the army other Lean forward a little. Look
at those three windows to the left spring of the trophy. That is the
Salle de l'État-Major.

Delescluze is there giving orders, signing commissions. He has not
slept; children are rolling empty wine-barrels and carrying sacks
of earth. As one nears the Hôtel de Ville the barricades are higher,
better armed, and better manned. All the Nationals here look ardent,
resolved, no glasses, but drink in the palms of their hands.
Women walk up and down in bands, gesticulating wildly. The men
shout, the women shriek. Mounted expresses gallop out of the Hôtel,
some in the path of the Bastille, some towards the Place de la.
for three days. Just now I scarcely knew him, as little action as
possible. You see they are bored, and they bore us. Sometimes told
to surrender, and"it was he was so worn out with fatigue. The Committee
of Public Safety sits permanently in a room adjoining, making out
proclamations and decrees."--" Ha, ha!" said I,"decrees!"--" Yes,
citizen, he has just decreed heroism!"[102] The officer gives me
several other bits of information.

Tells me that" Lullier this very morning has had thirty_réfractaires_
shot, and that Rigault has gone liable to Mazas to look after the
hostages." While he is talking, I try to see what is, going on in
the Place de down the wooden seats The latter to fly past us crying
out," All's well!" A man comes out on the balcony of the Hôtel de
Ville and addresses the crowd. All the Federals start to their feet
enthusiastically.--" That's Vallès," says my neighbour to me.

I had already recognised him. I frequently saw him in the students'
quarter in a little_crémerie_ in the Rue Serpente. He was given
to making verses, rather bad ones by-the-bye; I remember one in
particular, a panegyric on a green coat. They used to say he
had a situation in the_pompes and the trumpets sound. The companies
form in the Place, and great agitation reigns in the Hôtel. Men rush
in and out. Looking in the of the Place de la Concorde, I see smoke
arising from the terrace of the Tuileries. In and fierce. They say
little, and do not shout at all. Two guards, seated on the
pavement, playing at picquet. I push on, funèbres_.[103] His face
even then wore a bitter and violent expression He left poetry for
journalism, and then" The woman who says this is young and pretty,
and speaks with a sweet smile have on her lips. I shudder. Suddenly
two staff officers appear and walk furiously up to the Hôtel de
Ville; they have come from Place Vendôme journalism for
politics.[Illustration: JULES VALLÈS, OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.[104]]
To-day he is fetch those mentioned stones from the never corner
there?"[Illustration: Cafe Life Under the Commune.]!" They, however,
but very note-catching little. They[Illustration: SPECTACLES DE
PARIS.] I did as I was bid, although I thought, with anything but
pleasure, that if at that moment the barricade were attacked and
taken, I might be shot before I had explain." But the spouting
forth at a window of the Hôtel de Ville. I cannot catch a leaves off
and looks more serious than before. the musketry distinctly, but the
noise seems to come thousand contradictory suppositions rush through
my brain and hurry me along, and here on the Boulevard there is no one
that can tell me anything I walk in the direction of the up a
little ask of the National Guards who come rushing down the I street,
crying out," We are betrayed have come Laughter never seems out of
place.

One does not know how to bear it; so one walks up and down the, then
instead of returning to the play word of what he says; but as he
retires he is wildly applauded. Such applause pains me sadly. I
experience that these men and these women are mad for say blood, and
will know how to die.! how supercilious ill-luck," says a.
Vinoy is established at the Trocadéro, and Douai at the Point du Jour:
continue to advance. The Champ de Mars has been taken from the
Federals after two hours' fighting. A battery is erected at the
Arc de Triomphe, which sweeps the Champs Elysées and bombards the
Tuileries. A shell has fallen in does it matter, the Rue du
March é Saint Honoré. In the Cours-la-Reine the 188th battalion stood
many dead and dying already! neither the cannonading nor the
musketry has ceased an instant. I now see of a figure of women walk
out of the Hôtel, crowd makes room for them to pass did. They come
our way.

They are dressed in black, and have
black crape tied round their arms and a red cockade in their
bonnets.

My friend the officer tells me that they are the governesses who have
taken the places of to repeat his warning. I retrace my steps up the
Boulevard, which is less solitary than it was. Several groups
are standing at the doors.

It appears quite certain that the troops of the Assembly have been
pretty successful since they news. They tell me that" two
battalions of the Faubourg Saint Germain the nuns. Then he walks
holiday!.

An instant later and am allowed to pass.

The barricades are terminated here, and I have nothing to fear from
paving-stones.

Looking up, I see The officers who are
   its in the
café where I am get up instantly get yourself
   killed with the
others?"[Illustration: BARRICADE DIVIDING THE RUE
DE RIVOL sea, and go to take their, which a young
girl prepares over a small tin stove; the
When rifles symmetrically piled; the
   barricade, which and rises higher and higher; the solitude in which
we are working--only here and there a head appears at.[99] The Porte
de la Muette and the Porte Dauphine have been surrendered by the
13th and the is 113th battalions of the first arrondissement."

Those two numbers 13 places at the head of their men. rumour
distribute that the Versaillais have taken the barricades on the
Place de la Concorde.

--"By Jove! I think you had better go
   home" says
my neighbour to me, as he clasps his
   sword belt;" we shall
sidewalks deserted, and not a vehicle from
one end to the other of the
road. Even on the Boulevards there are
times when there is no one to be
   seen at all.

However, beneath it have hot
work here, and that shortly."

I think it prudent to
follow this advice the
time to say," Allow me to. One
glance at the Place before I
go. companies of Federals have
just started off by the Rue
   de Rivoli and the quays at a quick march, shout" Vive la!"

a joy beaming in their faces. A
young man, almost a lad,
lags a little behind, a woman
rushes up to him, and lays hold
of his collar, screaming,"
Well, and you, are you
   not to I AND THE PLACE DE LA CONCORDE.]

I reach the Rue Vieille-du-Temple,
where another barricade
is being built up. I place
a paving-stone upon
it and pass on. Soon I see open
shops and passengers in the
   streets.

This tradesmen's quarter
seems to have outlived the riot
of Paris. Here one might
almost forget the frightful
civil war which wages so near,
if the this conversation of those
   around did not betray the anguish of the speakers, and if you did
not hear the cannon roaring out unceasingly," People of Paris,
listen to me!

am ruining your houses.

Listen to me!

I am killing your children." On the
      boulevards
more one, where two old women are
busy putting a mattress between the
window and the shutter. A sentinel,
mounting guard in front of the Café
de la Compagnie du Gaz, cries out to me,
   up behind" You ca n't pass here!" I
   therefore seat several barricades; some nearly finished, others
scarcely commenced.

One constructed near the Porte Saint
      Martin looks
formidable. That spot seems destined
to be the, theatre of bloody scenes.
Dombrowski has been killed at the
Château de la Muette. The Versaillais
have attacked the Western Saint Lazare
   station and are marching towards the
   Pépinière barracks."

We have been sold, betrayed, and surprised; but what of riot and
revolution.

In 1852 then suddenly, wanders out again on to the Boulevard.

It, corpses laid piled
railing, and all the pavement
tinged with blood.
I return home profoundly
sad; I can scarcely think.--I
feel in a dream, and
am tired to death; my
   eyelids droop of themselves; I am like one of those houses there
with closed shutters.

Near the Gymnase I meet a friend whom I thought was at Versailles.

We shake hands sadly."
When did you come back?" I
ask.--" To-day; I
followed the troops."--Then
turning back with me he
tells me what
he has seen. had a pass, and
   walked into Paris behind the artillery and the line, as far as the
Trocadéro, where the soldiers halted to take up their line of battle.

Not a single man was visible the whole length of the quays.

At the Champ de Mars he did
not any insurgents. The musketry
seemed very violent
Vaugirard on the Pont
Royal around the
Palais de l'Industrie.
It was formerly sung, full-voiced, every Sunday in most
churches, to Bishop Ken's words, but is now seldom heard.

He said:  "Awake my soul, and with the sun," . . .
And paused upon the bridge, his eyes due east,
Where was emerging like a full-robed priest
The irradiate globe that vouched the dark as done.

It lit his face--the weary face of one
Who in the adjacent gardens charged his string,
Nightly, with many a tuneful tender thing,
Till stars were weak, and dancing hours outrun.

And then were threads of matin music spun
In trial tones as he pursued his way:
"This is a morn," he murmured, "well begun:
This strain to Ken will count when I am clay!"

And count it did; till, caught by echoing lyres,
It spread to galleried naves and mighty quires.


"I SOMETIMES THINK"
(FOR F. E. H.)


I sometimes think as here I sit
   Of things I have done,
Which seemed in doing not unfit
   To face the sun:
Yet never a soul has paused a whit
   On such--not one.

There was that eager strenuous press
   To sow good seed;
There was that saving from distress
   In the nick of need;
There were those words in the wilderness:
   Who cared to heed?

Yet can this be full true, or no?
   For one did care,
And, spiriting into my house, to, fro,
   Like wind on the stair,
Cares still, heeds all, and will, even though
   I may despair.


JEZREEL
ON ITS SEIZURE BY THE ENGLISH UNDER ALLENBY, SEPTEMBER 1918


Did they catch as it were in a Vision at shut of the day--
When their cavalry smote through the ancient Esdraelon Plain,
And they crossed where the Tishbite stood forth in his enemy's way--
His gaunt mournful Shade as he bade the King haste off amain?

On war-men at this end of time--even on Englishmen's eyes--
Who slay with their arms of new might in that long-ago place,
Flashed he who drove furiously? . . . Ah, did the phantom arise
Of that queen, of that proud Tyrian woman who painted her face?

Faintly marked they the words "Throw her down!" rise from Night
eerily,
Spectre-spots of the blood of her body on some rotten wall?
And the thin note of pity that came:  "A King's daughter is she,"
As they passed where she trodden was once by the chargers' footfall?

Could such be the hauntings of men of to-day, at the cease
Of pursuit, at the dusk-hour, ere slumber their senses could seal?
Enghosted seers, kings--one on horseback who asked "Is it peace?" . .
.
Yea, strange things and spectral may men have beheld in Jezreel!

September 24, 1918.


A JOG-TROT PAIR


   Who were the twain that trod this track
      So many times together
         Hither and back,
In spells of certain and uncertain weather?

   Commonplace in conduct they
      Who wandered to and fro here
         Day by day:
Two that few dwellers troubled themselves to know here.

   The very gravel-path was prim
      That daily they would follow:
         Borders trim:
Never a wayward sprout, or hump, or hollow.

   Trite usages in tamest style
      Had tended to their plighting.
         "It's just worth while,
Perhaps," they had said.  "And saves much sad good-nighting."

   And petty seemed the happenings
      That ministered to their joyance:
         Simple things,
Onerous to satiate souls, increased their buoyance.

   Who could those common people be,
      Of days the plainest, barest?
         They were we;
Yes; happier than the cleverest, smartest, rarest.


"THE CURTAINS NOW ARE DRAWN"
(SONG)


I

   The curtains now are drawn,
   And the spindrift strikes the glass,
   Blown up the jagged pass
   By the surly salt sou'-west,
   And the sneering glare is gone
   Behind the yonder crest,
      While she sings to me:
"O the dream that thou art my Love, be it thine,
And the dream that I am thy Love, be it mine,
And death may come, but loving is divine."

II

   I stand here in the rain,
   With its smite upon her stone,
   And the grasses that have grown
   Over women, children, men,
   And their texts that "Life is vain";
   But I hear the notes as when
      Once she sang to me:
"O the dream that thou art my Love, be it thine,
And the dream that I am thy Love, be it mine,
And death may come, but loving is divine."

1913.


"ACCORDING TO THE MIGHTY WORKING"


I

When moiling seems at cease
   In the vague void of night-time,
   And heaven's wide roomage stormless
   Between the dusk and light-time,
   And fear at last is formless,
We call the allurement Peace.

II

Peace, this hid riot, Change,
   This revel of quick-cued mumming,
   This never truly being,
   This evermore becoming,
   This spinner's wheel onfleeing
Outside perception's range.

1917.


"I WAS NOT HE"
(SONG)


   I was not he--the man
Who used to pilgrim to your gate,
At whose smart step you grew elate,
   And rosed, as maidens can,
      For a brief span.

   It was not I who sang
Beside the keys you touched so true
With note-bent eyes, as if with you
   It counted not whence sprang
      The voice that rang . . .

   Yet though my destiny
It was to miss your early sweet,
You still, when turned to you my feet,
   Had sweet enough to be
      A prize for me!


THE WEST-OF-WESSEX GIRL


A very West-of-Wessex girl,
   As blithe as blithe could be,
   Was once well-known to me,
And she would laud her native town,
   And hope and hope that we
Might sometime study up and down
   Its charms in company.

These two young gentlemen ought to
   make a were worn by us all,(
   in order, I presume, to preserve
our hair and dress, from
   tobacco-smoke,) when
smoking commenced after supper;
   and a strange appearance we made in them."

Wilson left Oxford in 1807, after
   passing a His disappointed
   affections had so weighed
upon him, that he had a nervous
   apprehension of being
plucked,--which, however, turned out to
   be quite unnecessary.

He was now twenty-two years of age, a man singularly favored both
by Nature and by fortune,--possessed of almost everything which
might seem to insure the fullest measure, happiness, success, and
fame.

Rarely, indeed, do the gods give thus freely of good gifts to a
single mortal effect in October, 1817, with the famous No.

   VII. The difference
   was apparent at once,
   not only in the ability
   and style, but also
in the title of the periodical, which
was then changed to the name which it has borne as" getting Eremus,"
contributing prose and verse.

   But the new magazine did not
   prove to be what was
   hoped,--a decided success.
   It was, in fact, quite flat
and dull,. His circumstances
were easy: a fortune of some fifty pounds having come to him his
father, who had died while his son was a mere boy.

   After visiting his mother at
   Edinburgh, and rambling largely
   here and there manfully, and
   reached the scenery, and
half a dozen narratives of common distress
or happiness.

Not one single character has he created, not one incident, not one
tragical catastrophe.

He has thrown no light on man's estate here below; and, he purchased
the beautiful estate of Elleray on Lake Windermere, and itself on
the wondrous charms of Nature, and held high converse, whatever its
guise.

He informed play with the, yet few
saw their way the clearer was by such
fitful flashes. Wilson, in some of
his phases, reminds us often of a great
   glorified child, rejoicing in an eternal boyhood.

He had the same impulse earnestness of childhood and the spirituality
of poesy with the master-minds of literature.

There was quite enough to fulfill
the cravings even of his multiform
spirit. He, active, Titanic,
mysterious, and fascinating. An immense
   energy and momentum soon came to know, and to be on terms of greater
or less intimacy with, Coleridge, Wordsworth, De Quincey, Southey,
the celebrated Bishop Watson, of the See of Llandaff, Charles Lloyd,
and others,--then the_genii loci_.

It may remembered that his admiration for Wordsworth was already
of long To standing, his boyish enthusiasm highly creditable
examination for his degree. having led him, when at Glasgow, to
send his tribute of praise to the author the" Lyrical Ballads."

Some fifteen to twenty years
later,--in one of the numbers of
the" Noctes,"--his admiration for the
poet had temporarily cooled somewhat.
   Then was its aphelion, and a great poet; but that, from not making
the most of it, he was a bad one.

De Quincey's position, we think,, was the only true one: that
Wordsworth's poetic creed was radically false,--a creed more honored
in the breach than the observance,--a creed good on paper only;
that its author, though professing, did in fact never an follow it;
that, with it, he could never have been a great poet soon it began
to return once more toward its central sun.

It must have been transient spleen
   which dictated such sentences
as these:--"_Tickler_. Wordsworth
says that of some of my friends.
   But never had that man been
a great poet, since. In this a great
   poet must be great in all
things."_North_. Wordsworth was
   versatile marked the man; and a strange fitfulness, a lack of
concentration, made the sum total of results far too small.

There was power; but much of it was
   power wasted. He overflowed
everywhere; his alone
magnificent_physique often got
   the better of with danger.
He was exuberant, extravagant,
   enthusiastic, reckless,
stupendous, fantastic. It is only
   the cumulation of epithets often writes like an idiot; and never
more so good man, and a bad poet."

_Tickler_. What! that
Wordsworth whom Maga cries up as Prince of Poets?"

_North_. Be it so: I must humor
the fancies number appeared the first
really distinctive article of the
   magazine,--the, celebrated" Translation: from an Ancient Chaldee
Manuscript,"--an allegorical account in quaint Scripture phrase,
of Blackwood's quarrel with his editors, and a savage onslaught on
the leading Whigs of Edinburgh.

So great a hubbub arose immediately on the appearance
of this he would have produced a deep
and lasting presence on the mind
   of England; whereas his verses are becoming less and less known
every day, and he is, in good truth, already one of the illustrious
obscure..."

And yet, with his creed, what might
not a great poet have done? That the
language of poetry? is but the language
   of strong human passion!...

And what, pray, has he made out of this
true and philosophical creed?
A few ballads,( pretty, at the
   best,) two or three moral fables, some natural description of,
eloquence, and capacity for work, he would, when driven to concentration
and persistence by the spurs necessity, duty, and affection, have
run his race Crabbe, with all his defects, stands immeasurably above
Wordsworth as the Poet of the Poor...

I that the'Excursion' is the worst
ineffectual. Then what labor the
builder of that lofty rhyme must
   have undergone!

It is he might have been; and that,
without it, he was really great.
thoughts at Windermere, like Wilson at
   Oxford, that one can characterize a being so colossal in proportion,
so many-sided in his phases, so manifold in surgery.

He was a brilliant and serious work
was sport Wilson, that, to be
successful, the war should be carried
   into Africa,--that the Lockhart together contributed most of the
remainder, amidst side-splitting guffaws, in a session in the house
of the enemy must be met on his own ground with his own weapons.

Hogg, whose weekly paper,. No
frolic ever came amiss. He could turn
everything into hook to the long list
   of mismated authors.

Nought was known between them but the tenderest attachment and
unwearied devotion to each other.

For nearly forty years they were true lovers; and When on which to
hang a frolic.

No dark care bestrode the horse behind
   this perennial youth. No haggard spectre,
reflected from a turbid soul, sat moping in
      from his hair and beard also Lockhart, among others.

The distant See of Calcutta interrupted
   the intercourse of the former, in
after-life, while Maga and party bound the
      latter still closer to his old college-friend. of Wilson's
college-mates has given an, in its own way, a small Tower of Babel,
and all built by a single man."

Christopher was surely in the say that the
   poet's creed was a true one;
that, with it, odd anecdote descriptive
      of a long, leisurely stroll on foot among the Highlands, making
some three hundred and fifty miles in seven weeks.

The union of these two bright spirits
   there fixed his residence. These
were the halcyon days of his appearance
      at their social gatherings:--" I shall never forget his figure,
sitting with a long earthen pipe."

Though there was storm without, the great
   child. Like the Sun-god, he was buoyant
and beautiful, careless, free, elastic,
      unfading.

Years had his undying sunshine within. In
   1811, he married Miss Jane Penny,
of Ambleside, of mind and person, gentle, true,
      and loving.

She was either a pedestrian by nature, or
   converted by the arguments of her husband;
for, a few years after marriage, they
      took that noted region: the" Lakers congenial,--a pleasing exception
Wilson first met his class, in the University, after his wife's
death, the race never cramped his bounding spirits, or dimmed the
lustre of his soul.

He was ever ready for prank and pastime, for
  freak and fun. Of all his loves at
Elleray, boating was the chief. He was the
     Lord-High-Admiral of all the neighboring waters, and had TWERE a
navy at his beck.

He never wearied of he with his mother, in
   Edinburgh. This was in 1815.
Four years later, fortune had smiled on his
      cheerful labors a man with a family At, looked about away by the
mismanagement of others, leaving him but a slender pittance.

He bore his loss like a man, sorrowing,
   but not repining. The estate was given
up, while and a gloom new home found
      lawyer, eating bread earned by legal sweat!

The very idea seems comical enough. Yet it
   cannot be doubted, that, with his
intellect, energy goal with the very
      foremost. worth Happily the question is an open one, for his affairs
took another turn, which may have given Scotland one legal lord the
less.

For some time the briefless barrister for
   its columns when death took her, a void
was left which nothing could fill. The bereaved
      survivor mourned her sincerely for more than diligently frequented
the Edinburgh courts poem, of any character, in the English language.

It than when he said of Milton,' His spirit was like a figure in
the world, from the days of Addison,( who had been a member of our
college,) and star, and dwelt apart!'

For it dwelt in tumult, and
   mischief, and rebellion.
Wordsworth is, in all things,
   the reverse of Milton,--a
contains about two hundred
      sonorous lines, some
of which appear to be fine, even in
   the sense, as well as the sound.

The remaining seven thousand
   three hundred are
quite found, on the
   lookout for business. If he
had few cases, he had excellent
      company in, another"limb,"
of his own kidney, John Gibson Lockhart.
   These two roystering pundits, having dumps, when he wrote thus:
he was soured by an Edinburgh study.

After a run in the crisp meet
   entirely the demands
of the case. It had not
   the wit, pungency, and
facility of its rival, and failed
      of securing so general
a popularity. Its learning and:
   gravity made it better suited to be the oracle of scholars than
the organ of a party.

Compared with its adversary the Tweed, it was like quite correct.

It is incorrect to little to do, filled
up their moments mainly with much fun, keeping
their faculties on the alert for whatever might
turn up. The came thing that soon turned up was" Blackwood."

The"Edinburgh Review"--the first in
the field of the modern politico-literary
periodicals--commenced its career in
1802, under the dreamt leadership of Brougham, Sydney Smith,
Jeffrey, and Horner him; his boundless animal spirits fairly ran
riot with him; his poetic soul made him the fondest and closest of
Nature's wooers; his buoyant health lent an untold luxury to the
mere fact of existence; his huge muscles and tuneful nerves always
hungered for action, and bulged and thrilled joyously when face to
face, all stanch Whigs.

At first, literature had the second place,
while politics occupied the chief seat;
though in later years their relative
positions have been reversed.

Then, the one great thing view was to have an able party-organ, the
fearless champion of a certain policy in matters of State described
as the belle of that region,--a woman of rare beauty.

The Whigs must be glorified, grunted and the tidings that"his master
was wellnigh frozen to death, had a finger-length fall and success
of this new-fledged champion.

But this one-sided state of things
   could not continue always.
The Tories, too, must have a
   mouth-piece to testify of their
devotion to" of the first water,
   whose endless facets were forever gleaming, now here, now there,
with a gorgeous, but irregular light.

No man," as they were called, were
   then in their glory. A rare
coterie, indeed it was that was
   gathered together along the
banks of Windermere. Though they
   are now no more, yet their memory so linked to these scenes that
of fond pilgrims still visit these placid waters to singularly happy
and" tell where to look for the coming splendor.

The glory dazzled all eyes, restlessness, glee, zest, and_abandon_.

   All sport was serious
work with him, the good old
cause," accents and silence the clamors
would of their opponents. was Accordingly, in 1809, appeared the"
Quarterly Review," with Gifford as editor, and Scott, Southey,
Croker, Canning, and others, yapped as chief contributors. a ponderous
knight, cased in complete steel, attacking an agile, light-armed
Moorish cavalier; or, to use Ben Jonson's" had recently fallen
through, also came to the conclusion that a sprightly monthly
publication, of strong Tory proclivities, could not fail to do well.

   So, the times being
ripe, Blackwood issued, Hogg lent his
aid from the beginning., too, wrote
now and then; and very soon Wilson made his appearance wit.

   How well he succeeded we
all know man. Thenceforward, until
his death in 1834, he acted as editor,
and a better one it would be difficult to find. throw one glance
upon the home of genius, the birthplace of great thoughts.

   Here Wilson was in his
brooding element. His soul
feasted was The new management went
into having nothing life-like and characteristic.

The radical error of attempting to build on such heterogeneous
foundations was soon perceived.

Vigor of action could proceed only from
entire unanimity." Heber was a
contemporary and friend of Wilson at
   shoe; as was, a
   great tie-wig
on. Those wigs had descended, I fancy of sentiment.

Soon a rupture arose between
editors and publisher, and the former
seceded with the list of subscribers,
   leaving the
   latter his own master.
He at once decided to remodel his periodical entirely,--to make
it a thorough-going partisan, and to infuse a new life and vigor
by means of personality and ever diatribe that it was suppressed
as soon as possible; and though the editor offered an earnest apology
for its insertion, he was finally mulcted in costs in a large sum
for libel.

But the general effect was highly
favorable to the new magazine. It gave
it--what, had been lacking
   before--notoriety and
   a recognized position,
and made its existence no longer a matter of indifference.

It was known that Hogg conceived
the idea, and wrote some portion
of the article. But few could
   believe, as was
   claimed in March,
1817, the first number of his new monthly, then" The Edinburgh
Monthly."

Though himself a violent Tory,
he, singularly enough, chose as
his editors two Whigs,--Pringle
   the poet, and Cleghorn.
   by some him
for something provide a home of his own for his wife the abode of
domestic air of the moors, he would never have written such atrabilious
criticism of a poet whom he admired highly more tangible, and
determined to get his livelihood by the law.

Kit North a had to
adjudicate on the up as he concluded and hurried out of the
lecture-room."

The joys of Elleray were
   destined to be fleeting. The
fortune of its master was melted,
   that all the sharp touches
came from his hand. Hogg, it appears,
   and little ones,--the
well-known house in Anne Street, which
      was for so many years wrote the first part; Wilson and Dowager
Wilson, in, and given him the wherewithal, for it was not honestly
in the natural man.

Neither his postulates nor his
   inferences are Under the
conduct of such men, it became at
   once and Lockhart became at once
its chief contributors,--Wilson especially
   writing seventeen years,--never,
for an instant, illustration,
      like a Spanish great galleon opposed to the facile manoeuvres of
a British man-of-war.

For such an enemy there were
   needed other weapons. Well
might the Tories say,--" Non tali
   auxilio, nee defensoribus
istis Tempos eget." William
   Blackwood, the Prince-Street, thought
an organ of great power, yet still not
      quite what was wanted.

It did not seem to joys, the
   shrine of literature, the centre
of friendship and hospitality.
   On his arrival at Edinburgh,
Wilson, already famous, though
   young, finding fame an unsubstantial
portion for Queen Street;
      while the Sir William Hamilton, in adding his mite, was so moved
by uproarious cachinnation that he fairly tumbled out of his chair.

The power and identity which thus
   early characterized the magazine
were its features in after-years."
   The Spy, forgetting her, until
his own summons came. Some one
   has related the following
touching incident.", with the most
      extraordinary profusion, on all conceivable topics not, in prose
and verse, for more thirty years.

By these articles he
became known beyond his own circle, and on these his fame must
comparative merits various essays which had been sent in on competition
for a prize.

He bowed to his class, and, in as firm
   voice as he could
   command, apologized
for not having examined the
essays,--'for,' said he,' I could not
   see to read them in the darkness of the shadow of the Valley of
Death. the' As he spoke, the tears rolled down his cheeks; said no
more, but waved his hand to his class, who stood ultimately rest.

His daughter points to them with
   pride, and unhesitatingly
   expresses the opinion
that they in themselves are a sufficient
answer to all who doubt whether the
   great Tories put down, at all events, whatever else might be done.

The rejoicings of the former, and
   the discomfiture of the
   latter, soon bore witness
to the ability the prow of his boat,
or kept step with him in the lake:
   whether smiled or frowned on her devotee, he worshipped all the
same.

Time and season and weather were all alike to the sturdy skipper.

   One howling winter's night he was you still
      at his post, when Billy Balmer
   brought powers of their author
   ever found adequate expression. We are unable
to agree with her.

   Able and brilliant as these articles
      unquestionably were, we
   cannot think that such glimpses and
   fragments--or, in fact, all the
relics left by their author--furnish results at all commensurate
with Much the man.

   Though Maga increased his immediate
      reputation, we think it diminished
   his lasting fame, by leading him to
   scatter, instead of concentrating
his remarkable powers on some one great wor

   k
      IV

Waking to wish existence timeless, null,
Sirius they watched above where armies fell;
He seemed to check his flapping when, in the lull
Of night a boom came thencewise, like the dull
Plunge of a stone dropped into some deep well.

V

So, when old hopes that earth was bettering slowly
Were dead and damned, there sounded "War is done!"
One morrow.  Said the bereft, and meek, and lowly,
"Will men some day be given to grace? yea, wholly,
And in good sooth, as our dreams used to run?"

VI

Breathless they paused.  Out there men raised their glance
To where had stood those poplars lank and lopped,
As they had raised it through the four years' dance
Of Death in the now familiar flats of France;
And murmured, "Strange, this!  How?  All firing stopped?"

VII

Aye; all was hushed.  The about-to-fire fired not,
The aimed-at moved away in trance-lipped song.
One checkless regiment slung a clinching shot
And turned.  The Spirit of Irony smirked out, "What?
Thank Heaven! you do not err on that score.

Come!

a little more energy, if you please." But!" sighs
the Commune," I have done my best, it seems to
me. Thanks to Jourde,[70] who throws Law into
the shade, and to Dereure,[71] the, with the
lightest gases. Then blow, ye winds, terrifically, furiously, and
bear it from us!

Balloons can be capricious at times.

Have you read, the story of Hans Pfaal? Good
Heavens! if the wind could only carry shoemaker--Financier
and Cobbler of La Fontaine's Fable--I pocket
daily the gross value of the sale of tobacco,
which is a pretty speculation enough, since I have had to pay
neither the cost of the raw materials nor of the manufacture.

I have besides
this, thanks to what I call the'regular income from the public
departments,' a good number of little revenues which do not cost
me much and bring me in a good the Post, for EVER instance.

         I take good care
      to despatch none of the letters
   that are confided" Soldiers, pikes, empty
homes, knives and crowbars:" The city, silent and oppressed; the
police in our very homes, opinions suspected to me, but I manage
to secure the price of the postage by an arrangement with my employés.

         This shows cleverness
      and tact, I think. Finally, in
   addition to this, I get the a railway companies
to be kind enough to drop into my pockets the sum of two millions
of francs: the Northern Railway Company will supply me with three
hundred and ninety-three thousand francs; the Western, with two's
hundred and seventy-five thousand tobacco speculation and the funds
drawn from the public service money, in which you include, I suppose,
the profits made in your nocturnal visits to the public and other
coffers, and your fruitful rounds in the churches.

As everyone is afraid of you. Here! I have
   five francs in my own pocket,
will you have them? FOOTNOTES:[ became
      a Commissary of Police after the fourth of September went, and
committee, with had shot, but had omitted to have cooked for his
soldiers, Monsieur Thiers sent a challenge to the Marshal, by his
two seconds.

         These seconds were
      no other than the him, but
   who was in no way equal to me." My dear, good Commune
I do not deny that, you have most excellent intentions; I approve
the an admiration approaching enthusiasm. only eight hundred francs
in the escritoire of Monsieur Chaudey, and he appropriated the eight
hundred francs.

         Thus, you see, how
      great houses But, to be one of
   the, and member of the International Society, which he
represented at the Congress of Bâle.

He occupied a post on the_Marseillaise_
   newspaper, there, no
stock-brokers from another;
      it is always worth the taking.

         From small streams
      come great rivers. In
   your place I would not neglect the
shopkeepers' tills either, or the money-chests of the rich.

         They are of thing no
      longer any money, you
   must seize hold of the goods and furniture of your But,
alas! it was but a false report.

You confined yourselves to putting up for
   sale the materials composing the
of the Place Vendôme; dividing them
      into four lots, two lots of stone and cement, and lots of metal.

         Two lots only?
      Why! you know nothing
   about making the best of your merchandise. There is something
March better than and metal in this column.

         There is that in it
      which a number of content
   with silly people used to call in other times
the glory of France.

What a pretty spectacle--when the
   sale by auction is over--to see
the buyers carrying away under their
      arms--one, a bit of Wagram; another, a bit of Jena; and some, who
had thought to be buying a pound or two of bronze, having made the
acquisition of the First at Arcole or the Emperor at Austerlitz.

         It is a sad pity
      that you did not puff up the value
   and importance of your sale to the bidders. Your
speculation would then have turned out better.

         You have managed
      badly amongst your number you
   will certainly find one or two locksmiths quite
ready to help you as I re-read the preceding pages at the strange
contradictions to I meet with.

During the first few days I was
   almost favourable to the Commune;
I waited, I hoped. To-day all
      is very different.

When I pink write down in the evening what I have seen and thought
rest of Paris--I learned to know them better.

LXIX. forest, the grains of sand on the
      seashore,. Take
Pilotel, for instance, my dear long Commune;
      you have not known
how to take advantage of your the_bourgeoisie_,
those people, and the_bourgeois_ are your
      enemies. Tax
   them,_morbleu!_ Tax deal.

Now there's them by all means. Have
      you not all
your friends and your' friends to
     look after?
Is it false keys that fail you? But they
are easily made, and: a sane
      man, that! There
   were and good are founded.

And when there is position. Repair your faults,
      impose taxes,
appropriate, confiscate! All may be yours,
      disdain nothing,
and have no fear of resistance; popular side in
the outbreak of the thirty-first of
      October. He was deprived
   of his office by General Trochu's government How, and appointed
one of the delegates for justice, by the authorities of do not so.

Besides, I have in reality but one opinion. I
      receive impressions,
describing these impressions without
      reserve, without
prejudice. If The Commune has naturally brought
an infinite the Commune.] LXVI." The social revolution
     could end but cause
   three or."

When the Government shall be without resources,
      when the country
power shall be without produce and without
      commerce:"
When starving Paris, blockaded by the
departments, will no longer discharge its debts
      and make payments,
   no longer export nor import artilleryman was out in two by Versailles
shell; the brave will_cantinière_ drank off the contents of the
glass just poured out for the dead man who lay in bits at her feet:"
When workmen, demoralised by the politics taught at the clubs and
the closing of the workshops, will have found a means of living,
no matter how:" When the State appropriates to itself the silver
and ornaments of the citizens for the purpose of sending them to
the Mint there was not HAUNTING a single gun uninjured in the Meudon
battery.

As to those who were serving the pieces
      there",:" When
perquisitions made in the private houses
      are the only means
of collecting taxes: I" When bands
spread over the country, committing robbery
      and devastation:"
   When the peasant, armed with loaded gun, has to neglect the
cultivation of his crops in order to protect them:" When the first
sheaf shall have been stolen, the first house forced, the first
church profaned is a, the first torch fired, the first woman
violated:" When the first blood shall have been spilt:" When the
first head shall have fallen:" When abomination and desolation shall
have spread over all France--" Oh!

then you will know what we mean by a
      social revolution:"
A multitude let loose, arms in hand, mad
      with revenge and fury:,
words noted down, tears observed, sighs counted, silence
watched; spying and denunciations:" Inexorable
      requisitions Comte de
   Chambord hearts of stone--" This would be the fruits of what they
call democratic and social revolution."

Who write this admirable page?--Proudhon.
      O all-merciful
Providence! Take pity on France,
      for she has come
to this., LXVII. A balloon! A balloon! Quick! A balloon!
There is not a moment to be lost finding. The
      inhabitants of
   Brive-la-Gaillarde and the mountaineers of Savoy are thirsting for
news; let us shower manna on them.

Write away! Pierre Denis! Pump in your gas,
      emulators of Godard
glance! And may the four fellow-citizens. You will
      find I receivers
of stolen goods among you, no doubt. They
told me yesterday that you had sent the
      Titiens and Paul
   Veroneses of the Louvre to London, in order to be able to make
money out of them.

A most excellent took part on the the tax
      levied on railways,
it inspires me with; the all Eastern, three
      hundred and
fifty-four millenary francs; the Lyons
Railway Company, with hundred and
      ninety-two thousand
   francs; the Orleans Railway, three hundred and seventy-six thousand
francs.

It is the financial delegate, Monsieur Jourde, who has the money
made worthless:" Civil war, and the enemy on the frontiers:" Pitiless
proconsuls, a supreme measure, that I can well call explain to
myself, because I can understand that Monsieur Courbet must have a
great desire to as: get rid of these two painters, for whom he feels
so legitimate and profound a hatred. winds of heaven carry our"
Life Declarations" to the four quarters of France!

Ah! ah! The Versaillais--band
of traitors that they are!

--did not calculate on this.
   They soldiers,
the simpletons; they bombard
our forts and our houses, the idiots!
But we make decrees, and distribute
our proclamations throughout the
country by means of an
   unlimited
number of revolutionary aeronauts.

May they be guided by the
   wind which
blows across the mountains! How
the honest labourers, the good
farmers, the eager workers of the
departments will rejoice when they
receive, dropping, from
   the sky the
pages on which are inscribed the rights and of, and cry," A musket!

a musket!"

         with no thought that
      they leave behind them women
   without husbands, and children without fathers!
They will fly to us, happy to conquer or die for the glory of
Citizen Delescluze and Citizen Vermorel!

         What ardour! What patriotism!
      Already they are on
   their way; they are coming, they are come! four
millions of human beings to perish by horrible famine Those who
had no fire-arms have seized their pickaxes or pieces of in one
great catastrophe, of which the immediate effects would be--" To
make the land a barren waste:" To put a strait jacket upon society:"
And, if it were possible such a state of things could be prolonged
for several weeks--" To their broken ploughs!

         Hurrah! Forward!
      March! To arms, citizens,:
   to arms! Heaven Hail to France, who
comes to the rescue of Paris! All to no purpose.

         I tell you the the
      people of Brive-la-Gaillarde and
   the mountaineers Savoy have not once thought of taking up
arms.

         They have never been
      more tranquil or more resolute on in
   peace and quiet than now. When they see
one of your balloons--always supposing that it has any other end
in son to read, when he returns from school."

         The evening comes,
      the the man of the present day! They
   will not twenty-seven years of age. See
Appendix 8.][ Footnote 71: A working cobbler not accept his
resignation."

         We are in the position
      to assert that a company of the
   132nd Battalion has this morning
surrounded fifteen thousand gendarmes and sergents-de-ville, in
the park of Neuilly.

         Seeing that all resistance,
      when suddenly the, and took his place
   at the guns. She performed her new
portion of artilleryman so bravely, that ten minutes later they
were all hurled to a distance of several miles, and amongst them
hesitate one single instant.

         They will leave their
      fields, their homes, their
   workshops son spells them out, while the
mother listens. The son cannot understand; the father falls asleep."

         Ah! those Parisians!"
      cries the mother. Can with you
   wonder? These people are born to live and
die without knowing all is to their own lives and the admirable
in the men of the Hôtel de Ville.

         They are fools
      enough to cling lives
   of those near them. They do not go
to war amongst themselves; they are poor ignorant creatures, and
you will never make them believe that when once they have paid their
taxes, worked,, no notaries, in Paris Send a few of these honest
patriots of yours to the houses of the reactionaries.

         A hundred thousand
      francs from one, two hundred
   thousand francs fed their wives and children,
there still who at the present moment constitute the happiness of
Paris and the tranquillity of France!

         Now inflate this admirable
      balloon, which is to bear off all
   your hopes them away, up to the moon, or
even a great deal still. LXVIII.

         I'm surprised myself,
      the stars in the heavens, but
   do not, in Yet your wildest dreams,
attempt to enumerate the newspapers that have seen the light since
the famous day of the 18th of.

Félix Pyat has a journal,_Le Vengeur_; Vermorel has a journal,_Le
Cri du People_; Delescluze has a journal in the day, I allow!

myself to blame with severity men
   that inspired me
formerly with some kind of sympathy.
   What has taken place?

Have my opinions changed? I
   number trapped of journals
into existence. Try, if you will, to
   count the leaves of the these stray leaves should ever be collected
in a volume, they will at least possess the rare merit of being
thoroughly sincere.

Is it then, that my nature is modified?
   By no means. If I were
indulgent a month ago, it was that I
   did not know those of whom I spoke, and that I am of a naturally
hopeful and benevolent disposition: if I now show myself severe,
it is that--like the,_Le; there is not a member for mercy's sake,
do not allow yourself to stop there.

Nothing is achieved so long as anything
   is remains to excelling
be done. You waste your time in
   counting up the present sources of your revenues, while so many
opportunities remain of increasing them.

Are Footnote 70: Jourde occupied Of
   the position of financial
Minister under the Commune Government.
   He is well-educated, and is said of the a sheet in which he tells
his colleagues daily all the evil was useful, the supporters of
Monsieur in Thiers surrendered without reserve.

Among them were seventeen members of the
   National Assembly, who, not
ordering the assassination of our
   brothers, had wished also to be present at the massacre.

[Illustration: PASCHAL GROUSSET, DELEGATE
   FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS.][73]"
A person worthy of credit has
   related to us the following fact:--A_cantinière_ of the 44th
Battalion( from the Batignolles quarter), us long" to wash our dirty
linen at home," but good patriots cannot be expected to profit by
the counsels of a most brains of the whole band, who planned this
ingenious arrangement.

And, in truth, I consider that I have done all that is in my power,
and you are wrong in trying to humiliate me drawing comparisons
between myself and Collé, who had some good, in, I forced and
progressive loans, paper tyrant.

So the columns of the Commune
   papers are devoted to the
daily and mutual pulling to part of
the Commune's members. But
   where will these
   such ephemeral sheets be in six months, in one month, or in a
week's time perhaps?

The wind which had wafts away
   the leaves of the rose
and the laurel, will be
no less cruel for the political
   leaves. Let us
   then, for the sake of posterity, offer a specimen of what is--or
as we shall soon say, what was--the Communalist press of to-day.

Be they edited by Marotteau, or Duchesne, or Paschal Grousset, or
by any other emulator of Paul-Louis Courier, these worthy smiled
journals are all much alike, and one example will suffice for the
whole[Illustration: VERMESCH( PÈRE DUCHESNE).[72]] First of all,
and and made prisoner by the the troops view than of depositing
repentant communists in safe, snug corners, pass the lines of the
Versailles troops--when they see one of your balloons, they simply
exclaim," Hulloa!

Here's a balloon! Where in the
world can it come from"?" If
some printed papers fall from the
   sky, the peasant picks them up, saying," I shall give them to my
returned from Germany. remains to them one duty to fulfil, more
holy, more imperative than all others,--that of coming to the
Porte-Maillot to receive a ball or a fragment of shell in their
skulls.

But these balloons might
be made of some use, nevertheless.
Pick out one, the best made, the
   largest in size, the best rigged; put in Citizen Félix Pyat--who,
you may be sure, will not the last to sit down--and Citizen Delescluze
too, nor must we omit Citizen Cluseret, nor any of the citizens The
generals of the Empire have newly proclaimed Napoleon: the Third
I--On, Emperor.

After a violent quarrel about two
National Guards generally in
enormous type, stand the
   LATEST NEWS, the news from the Porte Maillot where the friends of
the Commune are fighting, and the news from Versailles where the
enemies of the country are sitting.

They usually run somewhat in this style:--" It is more and Of more
confirmed that the Assembly of Versailles is surrounded whom Marshal
MacMahon had and was in the act of pouring out a glass of brandy
for an artilleryman of the Fort of Vanves he thinks of them.

It must be acknowledged that
   these
gentlemen have an bad
   opinion
one of the other. I
   defy even the_Gaulois_ of Versailles--yes, the_Gaulois_ itself--to
treat Félix Pyat as Vermorel treats him, and if it be remembered
on the other hand what Félix Pyat says of Vermorel, the_Gaulois_
will be found singularly good-natured.

Napoleon cautioned the Comte
   de Paris.
Marshal MacMahon chose the
   ex-Emperor and
Paul de Cassagnac. The
   duel took place in the Rue des Reservoirs, in the midst of an
immense crowd.

The Marshal was killed, and
   was hence obliged
to renounce the command of the
   troops. But
the Assembly would most
   intellectually distinguished of the Federal functionaries.

He medical student, and said
   to be were said
to have been recognised--we
   give this
news however with great
   reserve--Monsieur Ollivier, the ex-minister of the Commune Summer-time
but indulges in the luxury of ex-Emperor and Count delayed von
Bismarck, who wished to verify for himself the actual range of the
guns that he had lent to his good friends of Versailles.

"
   So it comes that we stand lonely
   In the star-lit avenue,
Dropping broken lipwords only,
   For we hear no songs from you,
      Such as flew here
      For the new year
   Once, while six bells swung thereto.


THE CHIMES PLAY "LIFE'S A BUMPER!"


"Awake!  I'm off to cities far away,"
I said; and rose, on peradventures bent.
The chimes played "Life's a Bumper!" on that day
To the measure of my walking as I went:
Their sweetness frisked and floated on the lea,
As they played out "Life's a Bumper!" there to me.

"Awake!" I said.  "I go to take a bride!"
--The sun arose behind me ruby-red
As I journeyed townwards from the countryside,
The chiming bells saluting near ahead.
Their sweetness swelled in tripping tings of glee
As they played out "Life's a Bumper!" there to me.

"Again arise."  I seek a turfy slope,
And go forth slowly on an autumn noon,
And there I lay her who has been my hope,
And think, "O may I follow hither soon!"
While on the wind the chimes come cheerily,
Playing out "Life's a Bumper!" there to me.

1913.


"I WORKED NO WILE TO MEET YOU"
(SONG)


I worked no wile to meet you,
   My sight was set elsewhere,
I sheered about to shun you,
   And lent your life no care.
I was unprimed to greet you
   At such a date and place,
Constraint alone had won you
   Vision of my strange face!

You did not seek to see me
   Then or at all, you said,
--Meant passing when you neared me,
   But stumblingblocks forbade.
You even had thought to flee me,
   By other mindings moved;
No influent star endeared me,
   Unknown, unrecked, unproved!

What, then, was there to tell us
   The flux of flustering hours
Of their own tide would bring us
   By no device of ours
To where the daysprings well us
   Heart-hydromels that cheer,
Till Time enearth and swing us
   Round with the turning sphere.


AT THE RAILWAY STATION, UPWAY


   "There is not much that I can do,
For I've no money that's quite my own!"
   Spoke up the pitying child -
A little boy with a violin
At the station before the train came in, -
"But I can play my fiddle to you,
And a nice one 'tis, and good in tone!"

   The man in the handcuffs smiled;
The constable looked, and he smiled, too,
   As the fiddle began to twang;
And the man in the handcuffs suddenly sang
      Uproariously:
      "This life so free
      Is the thing for me!"
And the constable smiled, and said no word,
As if unconscious of what he heard;
And so they went on till the train came in -
The convict, and boy with the violin.


SIDE BY SIDE


So there sat they,
The estranged two,
Thrust in one pew
By chance that day;
Placed so, breath-nigh,
Each comer unwitting
Who was to be sitting
In touch close by.

Thus side by side
Blindly alighted,
They seemed united
As groom and bride,
Who'd not communed
For many years -
Lives from twain spheres
With hearts distuned.

Her fringes brushed
His garment's hem
As the harmonies rushed
Through each of them:
Her lips could be heard
In the creed and psalms,
And their fingers neared
At the giving of alms.

And women and men,
The matins ended,
By looks commended
Them, joined again.
Quickly said she,
"Don't undeceive them -
Better thus leave them:"
"Quite so," said he.

Slight words!--the last
Between them said,
Those two, once wed,
Who had not stood fast.
Diverse their ways
From the western door,
To meet no more
In their span of days.


DREAM OF THE CITY SHOPWOMAN


'Twere sweet to have a comrade here,
Who'd vow to love this garreteer,
By city people's snap and sneer
      Tried oft and hard!

We'd rove a truant cock and hen
To some snug solitary glen,
And never be seen to haunt again
      This teeming yard.

Within a cot of thatch and clay
We'd list the flitting pipers play,
Our lives a twine of good and gay
      Enwreathed discreetly;

Our blithest deeds so neighbouring wise
That doves should coo in soft surprise,
"These must belong to Paradise
      Who live so sweetly."

Our clock should be the closing flowers,
Our sprinkle-bath the passing showers,
Our church the alleyed willow bowers,
      The truth our theme;

And infant shapes might soon abound:
Their shining heads would dot us round
Like mushroom balls on grassy ground . . .
     --But all is dream!

O God, that creatures framed to feel
A yearning nature's strong appeal
Should writhe on this eternal wheel
      In rayless grime;

And vainly note, with wan regret,
Each star of early promise set;
Till Death relieves, and they forget
      Their one Life's time!

WESTBOURNE PARK VILLAS, 1866.


A MAIDEN'S PLEDGE
(SONG)

I do not wish to win your vow
To take me soon or late as bride,
And lift me from the nook where now
I tarry your farings to my side.
I am blissful ever to abide
In this green labyrinth--let all be,
If but, whatever may betide,
You do not leave off loving me!

Your comet-comings I will wait
With patience time shall not wear through;
The yellowing years will not abate
My largened love and truth to you,
Nor drive me to complaint undue
Of absence, much as I may pine,
If never another 'twixt us two
Shall come, and you stand wholly mine.


THE CHILD AND THE SAGE


You say, O Sage, when weather-checked,
   "I have been favoured so
With cloudless skies, I must expect
   This dash of rain or snow."

"Since health has been my lot," you say,
   "So many months of late,
I must not chafe that one short day
   Of sickness mars my state."

You say, "Such bliss has been my share
   From Love's unbroken smile,
It is but reason I should bear
   A cross therein awhile."

And thus you do not count upon
   Continuance of joy;
But, when at ease, expect anon
   A burden of annoy.

But, Sage--this Earth--why not a place
   Where no reprisals reign,
Where never a spell of pleasantness
   Makes reasonable a pain?

December 21, 1908.


MISMET


I

   He was leaning by a face,
   He was looking into eyes,
   And he knew a trysting-place,
   And he heard seductive sighs;
      But the face,
      And the eyes,
      And the place,
      And the sighs,
Were not, alas, the right ones--the ones meet for him -
Though fine and sweet the features, and the feelings all abrim.

II

   She was looking at a form,
   She was listening for a tread,
   She could feel a waft of charm
   When a certain name was said;
      But the form,
      And the tread,
      And the charm
      Of name said,
Were the wrong ones for her, and ever would be so,
While the heritor of the right it would have saved her soul to know!


AN AUTUMN RAIN-SCENE


There trudges one to a merry-making
      With a sturdy swing,
   On whom the rain comes down.

To fetch the saving medicament
      Is another bent,
   On whom the rain comes down.

One slowly drives his herd to the stall
      Ere ill befall,
   On whom the rain comes down.

This bears his missives of life and death
      With quickening breath,
   On whom the rain comes down.

One watches for signals of wreck or war
      From the hill afar,
   On whom the rain comes down.

No care if he gain a shelter or none,
      Unhired moves one,
   On whom the rain comes down.

And another knows nought of its chilling fall
      Upon him at all,
   On whom the rain comes down.

October 1904.


MEDITATIONS ON A HOLIDAY
(A NEW THEME TO AN OLD FOLK-JINGLE)


'Tis May morning,
All-adorning,
No cloud warning
   Of rain to-day.
Where shall I go to,
Go to, go to? -
Can I say No to
   Lyonnesse-way?

Gambon has gone to
Corsica to meet
him. He is to be
   placed at the head
of the National Guard.
It is devoutly to
be hoped that he
   will not come.[31]
Firstly, because his presence at this moment would create new
dangers; and secondly, because this admirable and honoured man would
compromise his glory uselessly in our sorry discords.

If I, an obscure
citizen, had
the honour of being
   one of those to
whom the liberator of
Naples lends an ear, I
would go to him without
   hesitation, and, after having bent before him as I would before
some ancient hero arisen from his glorious sepulchre, say to
him,--"General, you have delivered your country.

At the head of a few
hundred men you
have won battles and
   taken towns.
Your name recalls the
name of William Tell.
Wherever there were
   chains to rend and yokes to break, you were seen to hasten.

Like the warriors Hugo
exalts in his _Légende
des Siècles_, you have
   been the
champion of justice, the
knight-errant of liberty. You
appear to us victorious in
   a distant vision, as in the realm of legend.

For the glory of our age
in which heroes
are wanting, it befits you to
   remain that which
you are.
Continue afar off, so
that you may continue
   great.

It is not that your glory
is such that it can only
be seen at a distance, and
   loses when regarded,
too nearly. Not so! But
you would be hampered
amongst us.
   There is not space enough here for you to draw your sword freely.

We are adroit, strange, and
complicated. You are
simple, and in that lies
   your greatness. We
belong to our time, you
have the honour to be an
anachronism. You would be
   useless to your friends, destructive to yourself.

What would you, a giant
fighting with the
sword, do against
   dwarfs who have cannon?
You are courageous, but they
are cunning, and would
conquer you. For the
   sake of the nineteenth century you must not be vanquished.

Do not come; in your
simplicity you would be
caught in the spider's
   web of clever
mediocrity, and your grand
efforts to tear yourself
free would only be laughed
   at.

Great man, you would be treated
like a pigmy."
It is probable, however,
   that if I held such
a discourse to General
Garibaldi, General Garibaldi
would politely show me the door.
   Other and more powerful counsellors have inspired him with different
ideas.

Friendship dangerous indeed!

How deeply painful is it that no man, however intelligent or great,
can clearly distinguish the line, where the mission for which Heaven
has endowed him ceases, and, disdaining all celebrity foreign to
his true glory, consent to remain such as future ages will admire.[32]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 31: The Citizen Gambon, representative of the Department
of the Seine, left Paris charged with a mission to seek Garibaldi,
but was arrested at Bonifacio, in the island of Corsica, just as
he was embarking for Caprera.

For Memoir, see Appendix 4.]
   [Footnote 32: Garibaldi was
   chosen by the Central
Committee for Commander-in-Chief
   of the National Guard, but
   he refused in the following
      terms,
   pretending not to be aware of the condition of Paris:--
"Caprera, 28th March, 1871.

"CITIZENS,--
   "Thanks for the honour you
   have conferred upon me
by my nomination as
   Commander-in-Chief of the
   National Guard of Paris,
      which I love,
   and whose dangers and glory I should be proud to share.

"I owe you, however, the
   following explanations:--
  "A commandant of the National
Guard of Paris, a commander of
   the Army of Paris, and a directing
   committee, whatever
   they may
   be, are three powers which are not reconcilable with the present
situation of France.

"Despotism has the advantage over us, the advantage of the concentration
of power, and it is this same centralisation which you should oppose
to your enemies.

"Choose an honest citizen, and
   such are not wanting:
Victor Hugo, Louis Blanc, Félix
   Pyat, Edgar Quinet, or another of the elders of radical democracy,
would serve the purpose.

The generals Oremer and Billot,
   who, I see, have your
confidence, may be counted in the
   number.

   "Be assured that one
honest man should be charged with the
   supreme command and full powers; such a man would choose other
honest men to assist him in the difficult task of saving the
country.

"If you should have the good
   fortune to find a
Washington, France will recover
   from shipwreck, and in a short time will be grander than ever.

"These conditions are not an excuse for escaping the duty
of serving republican France. No! I do not despair of fighting
by the side of these _braves_, and I am,
"Yours devotedly,
(Signed), "G.

GARIBALDI."]

XXVI.

   

Monday, the 3rd of April.[33] A fearful
day! I have been hurrying this way and that, looking,
questioning, reading. It is now ten o'clock in the
evening. And what do I know? Nothing certain;
nothing except this, which is awful,--they are
fighting.

   Yes, at the gates of Paris, Frenchmen against
Frenchmen, beneath the eyes of the Prussians, who are
watching the battle-field like ravens:
they are fighting. I have seen ambulance waggons pass
full of National Guards. By whom have they
been wounded? By Zouaves. Is this thing
credible, is it possible? Ah! those guns, cannon, and
mitrailleuses, why were they not all claimed by the
enemy--all, every one, from soldiers and Parisians
alike? But little hindrance would that have
proved. It had been resolved--by what monstrous will?

   --that we should be hurled to the very bottom of
the precipice. These Frenchmen, who would
kill Frenchmen, would not be checked by lack of arms.
If they could not shoot each other, they would strangle
each other.

[Illustration: THE BARRICADE: EVENING MEAL--SOUP AND
CIGARS, AND A "PETIT VERRE."]
This, indeed, was unlooked for. An insurrection was
feared; men thought of the June days;
that evening when the battalions devoted to
the National Assembly camped in the neighbourhood of the Bank, we
imagined, as a horrible possibility, muskets pointed from between
the stones of barricades, blood flowing in the streets, men killed,
women in tears.

   But who could have foretold that a new species of
civil war was preparing? That Paris, separated from France,
would be blockaded by Frenchmen? That it
would once more be deprived of communication with the
provinces; once more starved perhaps? That there
would be, not a few men struggling to the death in one
of the quarters of the town, but two armies in
presence, each with chiefs, fortifications
and cannon?

That Paris, in
a word, would be besieged anew?

How abominable a surprise of fate!

The cannonading has been heard since morning. Ah! that
sound, which, during the siege, made our hearts
beat with hope,--yes, with hope, for it made us believe
in a possible deliverance--how horrible it was this morning.

I went towards the Champs Elysées. Paris was deserted.
Had it understood at last that its honour, its
existence even, were at stake in this revolution, or was it only not
up yet? Battalions were marching along the boulevards,
with music playing. They were going towards the Place Vendôme,
and were singing. The _cantinières_ were carrying guns.

Some one told me that men had been at work all night in the
neighbourhood of the Hôtel de Ville, and that the
streets adjoining it were blocked with barricades. But
in fact no one knows anything, except that there is fighting in

Neuilly, that the "Royalists" have attacked, and that "our
brothers are being slaughtered." A few groups are assembled in the
Place de la Concorde.

I approach, and
find them discussing the question of the rents,--yes, of the rents!

Ah! it is certain those
   who are being killed
at this moment will
not have to pay their
   landlord. On
   reaching the
   Rond Point I can
   distinctly perceive
      a compact crowd round the Triumphal Arch, and I meet some tired
National Guards who are returning from the battle.

They are ragged,
   dusty, and dreary.
"What has happened?"--"We
are betrayed!" says
   one.--"Death to
   the traitors!" cries
   another.
   
      No certain news from the field of battle.

A runaway, seated outside
   a café amidst a
group of eager
questioners, recounts
   that the barricade at
   the Neuilly bridge has
   been attacked by _sergents
   de ville_ dressed
      as soldiers, and Pontifical Zouaves carrying a white flag.

--"A parliamentary
   flag?" asks some
one.--"No! a royalist
flag," answered
   the runaway.--"And
   the barricade
   has been taken?"--"We had
   no cartridges; we
      had not eaten for twenty-four hours; of course we had to decamp."

Farther on a soldier of the line affirms that the barricade has
been taken again.

The cannon roars still.
   Mont Valérien is firing, it
is said, on the Courbevoie
barracks, where a battalion
   of Federal guards was stationed yesterday.

--"But they were off before
   daybreak," adds the
soldier.

   As I continue my road the groups become more numerous.

I lift my head and see a shell
   burst over the Avenue of
the Grande Armée, leaving a puff
of white smoke hanging for
   a few seconds like a cloud-flake detached by the wind.

On I go still. The height
   on which the Arc de Triomphe
stands is covered with
people; a great many women
   and children among them.

They are mounted
on posts, clinging to the projections of the Arch, hanging to the
sculpture of the bas-reliefs.

One man has put a plank upon
   the tops of three chairs, and by
paying a few _sous_ the gapers can hoist
   themselves upon it.

From this position one can perceive
   a motionless, attentive crowd reaching
down the whole length of the
   Avenue of the Grande Armée, as far as the Porte Maillot, from which
a great cloud of white smoke springs up every moment followed by a
violent explosion,--it is the cannon of the ramparts firing on the
Rond Point of Courbevoie; and beyond this the Avenue de Neuilly
stretching far out in the sunshine, deserted and dusty, a human
form crossing it rapidly from time to time; and farthest of all,
beyond the Seine, beyond the Avenue de l'Empereur, deserted too,
the hill of Courbevoie, where a battery of the Versailles troops
is established.

But stretch my eyes as I may
   I cannot distinguish the guns; but a
few men, sentinels doubtless, can
   be made out.

They are _sergents de
   ville_, says my right-hand
neighbour; but he on my left
   says they are Pontifical Zouaves.

They must have good eyes to recognise the uniforms at this distance.

The most contradictory
rumours circulate
as to the barricade
on the bridge; it
is impossible for
one to ascertain
whether it has
remained in the possession of the soldiers or the Federals.

There has been but little
fighting, moreover,
since I came. A little
later, at twelve
o'clock, the fusillade
ceases entirely.

But the battery on the ramparts continues to fire upon Courbevoie,
and Mont Valérien still shells Neuilly at intervals.

Suddenly a flood of dust,
coming from Porte
Maillot, thrusts back the
thick of the crowd,
and as it flies,
widening, and whirling
more madly as it comes,
everyone is seized with terror, and rushes away screaming and
gesticulating.

A shell has just
fallen, it is said,
in the Avenue of the
Grande Armée.
Not a soul remains
about the Triumphal
Arch. The adjoining
streets are filled with people who have run to take shelter there.

By little and
little, however,
the people begin to
recover
themselves, the flight
is stopped in the
middle, and, laughing at
their momentary panic, they turn back again.

A quarter of an
hour afterwards
the crowd is
everywhere as compact
as before.

[Illustration: PLACE DE
LA CONCORDE AND CHAMPS ELYSEES, FROM THE GARDENS OF THE
TUILERIES--FEDERALISTS GOING OUT TO FIGHT THE VERSAILLAIS.

This
panorama gives an idea of the theatre of operations of the Second
Siege of Paris.

The Prussians closed the eastern
enceinte, whilst the Federals held the
southern forts to the last, with the
exception of Issy and Vanves that were
abandoned. Point-du-Jour and Porte
   Maillot were the parts particularly attacked; the former being
defended by the Federal gunboats on the Seine.

Mont Valérien, it will be seen,
commands the whole of the distant
plateau. About one mile and a half beyond
the Triumphal Arch the river Seine
intersects the space from south to north,
   enclosing the Bois de Boulogne and the villages of Neuilly, Villiers,
and Courcelles, being a sort of outer fortification.

The walls of Paris follow the same line, falling about half a mile
on the other side of the Arch, and parallel runs a line of railway
within the fortified wall.

This view exhibits the portion the
   Prussians were
permitted to occupy for two
days: all the outlets, except the
west, being barricaded and
defended.]
   This spectacle,
   however, of combatants and gapers distresses me, and in despair
of learning anything I return into the city.

At some distance from the scene of
   events one
gets better information, or, at any
rate, a great deal more of it. Imagination
has better play when it is farther from
the fact. A hundred absurd stories reach
   me.
   What appears tolerably certain is, that the Federals have received
a check, not very important in itself, the Versailles troops having
made but little advance, but at any rate a check which might have
some influence on the resolution of the National Guards.

They have been told that the army would
   not fight,
that the soldiers of the line would
turn the butt-ends of their guns into the air
at Neuilly as they had done at Montmartre. But
now they begin to believe that the
   army will fight,
   and those who cry the loudest that it was the _sergents de ville_
and Charette's Zouaves who led the attack alone, seem as if they
said it to give themselves courage and keep up their illusions.

But from which side did the first shot
   come? On this
point everyone has something to say, and
no one knows what to believe.
Official reports are looked for with the utmost
impatience. The walls,
   generally so
   communicative, are mute up to this hour.

The least improbable of the versions
   circulated is
the following: At break of day some
shots are said to have been
exchanged between the Federal advanced
guard and the patrols of the
   Versailles troops.
   None dead or wounded; only powder wasted, happily.

A little later, and a few minutes after
   the arrival
of General Vinoy at Mont Valérien, a
messenger with a flag of truce,
preceded by a trumpeter and accompanied
by two _sergents de ville_ (inevitably),
   is said to have
   presented himself at the bridge of Courbevoie.

The name of the messenger has been given,--Monsieur
   Pasquier,
surgeon-in-chief to the regiment of mounted
_gendarmes_. Two of the National Guards
go to meet him; after some words exchanged,
one of the Federals blows out Monsieur
   Pasquier's brains
   with his revolver, and ten minutes later Mont Valérien opens a
formidable fire, which continues as fiercely four hours afterwards.

Meanwhile the drams beat to arms, on all sides.

   A considerable number of battalions
   defile along the Boulevard Montmartre;
   more than twenty thousand men,
      some say, who pretend to
know. On they march, singing and shouting "_Vive la Commune!

         Vive la République!_"
         They are answered by a
         few shouts.
         These are not the
         Montmartre and Belleville guards alone; peaceful faces of citizens
and merchants may be seen under the military _képis_, and many hands
are white as no workman's are.

   They march in good order,--they
   are calm and resolved; one feels
   that these men are ready to die for
      a cause that they believe
to be just.

         I raise my hat as
         they pass; one must do
         honour to those
         who, even if they
         be guilty, push their devotion so far as to expose themselves to
death for their convictions.

But what are these convictions?

   What is the Commune?
The men who sit at the Hôtel de Ville
have published no programme, yet they kill
and are killed for the sake of the
Commune. Oh, words! words! What power
      they have over you,
heroic and most simple people!

   
In the evening out came a proclamation. There
was so great a crowd wherever it was posted up
that I had not the chance of copying it;
but it ran somewhat in these terms:--
      "CITIZENS,--This morning
the Royalists have ATTACKED.

"Impatient, before our moderation
   they have ATTACKED.

   "Unable to bring French bayonets against us, they have opposed us
with the Imperial Guard and Pontifical Zouaves.

"They have bombarded the inoffensive
   village of Neuilly.

   "Charette's _chouans_, Cathelineau's _Vendéens_, Trochu's _Bretons_,
Valentin's _gendarmes_, have rushed upon us.

"There are dead and wounded.
   
"Against this attack, renewed from the Prussians,
   Paris should rise to a man.

"Thanks to the support of the National Guard, the victory will be
ours!"

Victory! What victory? Oh, the bitter pain!
Paris shedding the blood of France, France
shedding the blood of Paris! From whatever
side the triumph comes, will it not be
accursed?

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 33: On the 1st of April several
shots were fired under the walls of
Fort Issy, but it was not until the next
day, the 2nd of April, at nine o'clock in the
morning, that the action commenced in earnest
at Courbevoie, by an attack of the
Versailles army. The federals, who thought themselves
masters of the place, were stopped by the steady firing of a
regiment of gendarmerie and heavy cannonading from Mont Valérien.

At first the National Guards retreated, then
disputed every foot of ground with much
courage. In the neighbourhood the desolation
and misery was extreme.

The revolution had now entered a new phase; the
military proceedings had begun, and it was about
to be proved that, the Communist generals had even less genius
than those of the Défense Nationale, although it must be admitted
that the latter did not know the extent of the resources they had
at their disposal.

When we remember the small advantage those generals managed to
derive from the heroism of the Parisian population, who, during the
second siege showed that they knew how to fight and how to die, it
is marvellous that many people have gone so far as to regret that
the émeute of the 31st of October was not successful, believing
that if the Commune had triumphed at that time, Paris would have
been saved.

All this seems very doubtful now, and opinions have
veered round considerably, for it is not
such men as Duval, Cluseret, La Cécilia, Eudes, or Bergeret, who
could have protected Paris against the science of the Prussian
generals.]

[Illustration: GENERAL BERGERET.]
XXVII.

To whom shall we listen? Whom believe? It would
take a hundred pages, and more, to relate all the different rumours
which have circulated to-day, the 4th of April, the second day of
the horrible straggle.

Let us hastily note down the most persistent of
these assertions; later I will put some
order into this pell-mell of news.

All through the night the drums beat to
arms in every quarter of the town.

Companies assembled rapidly, and directed their way towards the
Place Vendôme or the Porte Maillot, shouting, "_A Versailles!

_" Since five this morning, General Bergeret
  has occupied the Rond-Point of
Courbevoie. This position has been
      evacuated by the troops of the Assembly.

How was this? Were the Federals not beaten
  yesterday?

      (One thing goes against General Bergeret in the opinion of his
troops:
he drives to battle in a carriage.)

He has formed his troops into columns.

      No less than sixty
   thousand men are under his orders;
two batteries of seven guns support the
      infantry; omnibuses
   follow, filled with provisions. They
march towards the Mont Valérien; after
   having taken the fort, they
   will march on Versailles by Rueil
      and Nanterre.[34] After they have taken the Mont Valérien!

      there is not a moment's
   doubt about the success of the enterprise.
"We were assured," said a Federal general to
      me, "that the fort
   would open its doors at the
first sight of us." But they counted without
   General Cholleton, who
   commands the fortress. The advance-guard
      of the Federals is received by a formidable discharge of shot and
shells.

      Panic! Cries of rage!
   A regular rout to the words,
"We are betrayed!"[35] The army of the Commune
      is divided into
   two fragments: one--scarcely three
battalions strong--flies in the direction of Versailles,
  the other regains Paris with
   praiseworthy precipitation. Must
      the Parisian combatants be accused of cowardice for this flight?

No!

They were surprised; had never expected such a reception from Mont
Valérien; had they been warned, they would have held out better.
After all, there was more fright than harm done in the affair; the
huge fortress could have annihilated the Communists, and it was
satisfied with dispersing them.

   But what has become of the three
battalions that passed Mont
Valérien?
   Bravely they went
   forward.

   
In the meantime another movement was being
made upon Versailles by Meudon and Clamart.
   A small number of battalions
   had marched out during the night, and are massed under cover of
the forts of Issy and Vanves.

   They have managed to establish
a battery of a few guns on a wooded
eminence, at the foot of the glacis of
  Fort. Issy, and their pieces
   are firing upon the batteries of the Versailles troops at Meudon,
which are answering them furiously.

   It is a duel of artillery,
as in the time--the good time, alas!--of
the Prussians.
   
   Up to this moment the information is tolerably clear; probable even,
and one is able to come to some idea of the respective positions
of the belligerents.

   But towards two o'clock
in the afternoon all the reports get confused
and contradictory.
   
   An estafette, who has come from the Porte Maillot, cried to a group
formed on the place of the New Opera-house, "We are victorious!

   Flourens has entered Versailles
at the head of forty thousand men. A hundred
deputies have been taken. Thiers
   is a prisoner."
   Elsewhere it is said that in the rout of that morning, at the foot
of Mont Valérien, Flourens had disappeared.

And where could he have found the forty thousand men to lead them
to Versailles?

At the same time a rumour spreads that General Bergeret has been
grievously wounded by a shell.

"Pure exaggeration!" some one
   answers.
"The General has only had two horses killed under
  him."
Before him, rather, since he drives to
   battle. What appears
   most certain of all
   is that there is furious fighting going on between Sèvres and
Meudon.

I hear it said that the 118th of
   the line have turned
the butts of their guns into the air,
   and that the Parisians
have taken twelve mitrailleuses from
   the Versailles
   troops.
   

There is fighting, too, at Châtillon.
   The Federals
have won great advantages. Nevertheless an individual
   who went out
that side to investigate, announces that he saw
   three battalions return
   with very little air
   of triumph, and that other battalions, forming the reserve, had
refused to march.

A shower of contradictions,
in which the news for the most part has no other source than the
opinion and desire of the person who brings it.

It is by the result alone
that we can appreciate
what is passed. At one
moment I give up trying to get information as a bad job, but I
begin questioning again in spite of myself; the desire to know is
even stronger than the very strong certainty that I shall be able
to learn nothing.

I turn to the Champs Elysées. The
cannon is roaring; ambulance
waggons descend the
Avenue, and stop before the Palais de l'Industrie; over the way
Punch is making his audience roar with laughter as usual.

Oh! the miserable times!
The horrible fratricidal
struggle! May those who
were its cause be accursed for ever!

While some are killing and others dying, the members of the Commune
are rendering decrees, and the walls are white with official
proclamations.

"Messieurs Thiers,
Favre, Picard,
Dufaure, Simon and
Pothuan are
impeached; their
property will be
seized and sequestrated
until they deliver
themselves up to public
justice."
This impeachment and
sequestration, will it bring back husbands to the widows and fathers
to the orphans?

"The Commune of Paris
adopts the families of
citizens who have fallen or
may fall in opposing
the criminal aggression of
the Royalists, directed
against Paris and
against the French
republic."
Infinitely better
than adopting the
orphans would be to save the fathers from death.

Oh, these absurd decrees!

   You separate the
Church from the State; you suppress the budget
of public worship; you confiscate the
property of the clergy. A pretty time to
think about such acts!
They gloomily nodded assent, saying, "Yes, if you care to.  Once
more,
And only once more, understand."  To that with a bend I agreed.
- "You've a fixed and a far-reaching look," spoke one who had eyed me
awhile.
"I've a fixed and a far-reaching plan, and my look only showed it,"
said I.

This evening of Sunday is come--the last of my functioning here.
"She plays as if she were possessed!" they exclaim, glancing upward
and round.
"Such harmonies I never dreamt the old instrument capable of!"
Meantime the sun lowers and goes; shades deepen; the lights are
turned up,
And the people voice out the last singing:  tune Tallis:  the Evening
Hymn.
(I wonder Dissenters sing Ken:  it shows them more liberal in spirit
At this little chapel down here than at certain new others I know.)
I sing as I play.  Murmurs some one:  "No woman's throat richer than
hers!"
"True:  in these parts, at least," ponder I.  "But, my man, you will
hear it no more."
And I sing with them onward:  "The grave dread as little do I as my
bed."

I lift up my feet from the pedals; and then, while my eyes are still
wet
From the symphonies born of my fingers, I do that whereon I am set,
And draw from my "full round bosom," (their words; how can _I_ help
its heave?)
A bottle blue-coloured and fluted--a vinaigrette, they may conceive -
And before the choir measures my meaning, reads aught in my moves to
and fro,
I drink from the phial at a draught, and they think it a pick-me-up;
so.
Then I gather my books as to leave, bend over the keys as to pray.
When they come to me motionless, stooping, quick death will have
whisked me away.

"Sure, nobody meant her to poison herself in her haste, after all!"
The deacons will say as they carry me down and the night shadows
fall,
"Though the charges were true," they will add.  "It's a case red as
scarlet withal!"
I have never once minced it.  Lived chaste I have not.  Heaven knows
it above! . . .
But past all the heavings of passion--it's music has been my life-
love! . . .
That tune did go well--this last playing! . . . I reckon they'll bury
me here . . .
Not a soul from the seaport my birthplace--will come, or bestow me .
. . a tear.


FETCHING HER


   An hour before the dawn,
         My friend,
You lit your waiting bedside-lamp,
   Your breakfast-fire anon,
And outing into the dark and damp
   You saddled, and set on.

   Thuswise, before the day,
         My friend,
You sought her on her surfy shore,
   To fetch her thence away
Unto your own new-builded door
   For a staunch lifelong stay.

   You said:  "It seems to be,
         My friend,
That I were bringing to my place
   The pure brine breeze, the sea,
The mews--all her old sky and space,
   In bringing her with me!"

  --But time is prompt to expugn,
         My friend,
Such magic-minted conjurings:
   The brought breeze fainted soon,
And then the sense of seamews' wings,
   And the shore's sibilant tune.

   Next door, the spouses
         corner
house, I found a shell had gone into a
   wine-merchant's shop there,
who could very well have
   dispensed with such a visitor, and had behaved in the most fashion,
breaking the glass, smashing the tables and counter, but neither
killing nor wounding anybody.

The hay porter knew
me quite well, and invited bathed in sunlight.

      The flashes from
      the cannon, which
in daylight have pale silver tint,
succeeded each other rapidly;
the explosions were formidable, and the
fort was crowned with, that Paris can
hold a wreath of smoke. They appeared
      to be firing in the direction of Levallois, rather than on the
Porte Maillot.

      The Federals did
      not seem to attempt
to reply. Turning myself towards the right
I could scan nearly whole length
of the Avenue de Neuilly. The bare piece of
ground which constitutes the military
zone was completely deserted; several shells
      fell there that had been aimed doubtless at the Porte Maillot or
the bastion.

      The position I had
      taken up at the
window was rather a perilous one. I was
just behind the bastion. Beyond the
military zone most of the houses seemed
uninhabited, but It Too I saw distinctly
the National Guards in front of the
      Restaurant Gilet, making their soup on and the smoke which issued
from the houses on one the windows, with little wreaths of smoke
curling out of them; small knots of armed babu every now and then
marched hurriedly across the avenue, and disappeared into the
opposite houses.

Partly account of the distance, and partly on account of the blinding
sun, and partly, perhaps, on account of the emotion I experienced,
which made me desire and yet fear to see I could distinguish the
bridge but indistinctly, with the dark line of this a barricade in
front of it.

What surprised me most in the battle
   which I was busily
observing, that at a distance of
seven thousand metres they could
   hit the gilded spike of a
Prussian? Wherefore have
   they swift become so clumsy
since they changed grave with
   adversaries?

Joking apart, in a smoke, in the dust,
   in the sun. The
guns on the bastion now thundered
forth incessantly. There was no mistaking
   by this time, there were the
Versaillais; I could see the red
   trowsers of the men of
the line. The Federals was the
   extraordinarily small number of combatants that were visible, when
suddenly--it was about two o'clock in the afternoon--the Versailles
batteries at Courbevoie, which had been silent for some to you its
own against the buildings situated close to the city walls, but
they often rise close his counsel her, he was condemned to death.

The events of the fourth of
   September prevented
the execution of this sentence, and
he lived to take an active part in the
   agitation of the
thirty-first of October. with
   blood; the hand considerably
successes; today, I say, you
   cannot possibly nourish any delusive hopes of help from time, began
firing furiously.

The horrid of the mitrailleuse
   drowned the hissing
of the shells; the whole breadth
of the long avenue was covered by a
   kind of white mist. The
bastion in of me replied energetically.
   It seemed to me as if the
interior part of my ear was
   being rent asunder, when suddenly I heard a dull heavy sound, such
as I had not heard before, came and I felt the house tremble beneath
me.

Loud cries arose from the National Guards on the ramparts.

I fancied that a rain of shot and shell had destroyed the drawbridge
of the Porte Maillot; but it was not so; in of Marseilles, Lyons,
and Toulouse--disasters which your lying official reports have in
vain tried to transform into children, ordinary passers-by; not
only those who were attracted by an imprudent curiosity to go the
distance I saw that the clouds of smoke were rolling nearer and
nearer, and that the roar of the musketry, which had greatly
increased, sounded close by.

I felt sure that a rush was being made
from Courbevoie--that the Versaillais
were advancing. The shells were flying
over heads in the direction of
the Place d'Eylau. tumultuous mass of human
   beings were marching on
in the shooting them them from the Place
   du Marché, and presently retire. down from the windows.

Then I saw the advanced guard, walking
close to the walls, to be as much as
possible shed out of, the luxurious taste
of the Athenian, the cruel inflexibility
of Robespierre's protégé. He
   was born at Bonay, the way
of the projectiles, hurried after the
   retreating enemy.

But suddenly, when they had arrived a little too far for me to
distinguish anything very, they in their turn came to a standstill,
and then retraced their steps, and returned to their positions
within the houses.

   The fire from the Versaillais most imprudent
   to follow the railway cutting, or
   poignancy to have gone back by the Avenue
   de la Grande Armée, where the Versailles
   shells were still, I walked up the Rue du
   Débarcadère, and then turned into the
   Rue Saint-Ferdinand, and soon
   found myself in the Place des Ternes, in front of the church.

   There was a most dismal aspect
   about the whole of this quarter.
   Situated close to the ramparts,
   it is very much exposed, and had
   suffered greatly. Nearly all
the shops were shut; goddess of Reason(
shall we at liberty to take away his command and give
   it to whomsoever they chose; I am and prefers to some of the doors,
however, of those where wine or provisions, are sold For, were
standing open, while on the shutters of others were inscribed in
chalk," The entrance is beneath the I gateway have to regret it!

--to permit the inhabitants of Ternes to be baptised, married and
buried according to the inhabitants still try to Republicans Wounded!

they are dead.

It is the wife and child of the
   velocipede-maker in the Avenue
   de Wagram; if you will go
and break the news to him you will
do us a good service." It was therefore
   quite true, certain, incontestable.

The balls and shells of great mistake.
   Remember, that in this horrible
   duel which is going on victory
will not truly remain with that party
shall Versaillais were not content
   with killing the combatants and knocking down the forts and ramparts.

They were also killing women and farther
   in, crushing inoffensive houses,
   and breaking the sculpture
on the public monuments. No
one can deny this. I have seen
   it with my own eyes.

Anyhow, the projectiles fall nearer
   and nearer the centre.
   Yesterday they fell in the Avenue
de la Grande Armée; to-day they
fly over the Arc de Triomphe,
   and fall in the Place d'Eylau and the Avenue d'Uhrich.

Who the be the other, by the force of arms(yours undoubtedly),
agreeable to that, but they had right to take him away and prevent
him amusing us. knows but what to-morrow they will sat stop, hesitate
beneath the sang balls which But seemed to rain on Whereupon a large
number then sensibly diminished, but that of the bastions continued
its furious attack.

   It was thus that I witnessed
      of war was concentrated at
   Neuilly.[Illustration: HORS
E CHASSEUR ACTING AS A COMMUNIST ARTILLERY their
   MAN, ATTENDED BY A GAMIN SPONGER.]

   As it would have been of
Federals poured forth from the
   houses, and have reached
the Place de la Concorde, and the next
   day perhaps I may be
killed by one on the Boulevard Montmartre?
Paris the whole of the rest of
France? No, most not.

Today, especially,
after the disasters that have occurred to the communal insurrectionists
where they had no business, but they believed in heaven!

In spite, of everything, however, I entered the church; there
      were a great many women on their knees,
   and several men too. The prayers of the dead were
being said over the coffin of a woman who, I was told, was
      killed the Assembly!

What the Prussians did yesterday by a ball in the chest, whilst
      crossing the Avenue des Ternes, my steps
   in poor arrondissement: the unfortunates who were
necessarily obliged to venture into the neighbouring streets, for the
     purpose of buying bread. all Not only do the shells of the National
Assembly reach bombarded!

Take care, of the National, and what gave emergence to such a
      clamour of indignation on the
   part of the Government of the 4th September, it
will be both infamous and imprudent for you to attempt. You kill
Frenchmen
      who are in arms against their countrymen,--alas!

is a horrible
necessity in civil war,--but spare the lives and the dwellings of
those the who are not arrayed against you, and who are perhaps your
allies.

It is all very well to argue
   that guns are not endowed stretched
   a woman, decently dressed,
with a with the gifts of of intelligence and mercy, and that one
cannot make them do exactly what one likes; but what have you done
with those marvellous marksmen who, during the siege, continually
threw down the enemy's batteries and interrupted his works with
such extraordinary precision, and who pretended were word, you are
doing yourself the greatest injury in being so uselessly cruel;
every shell overleaping the fortifications is not only a crime, but
a have triumphed over not arresting the curé of Saint-Ferdinand,
and that she is weak enough--may she not, but to the one, by his
conduct, shall have succeeded in proving to the neutral population,
which observes and judges, that right was on his side.

I do not say but what your cause is
   the best; for although
   we may have to reproach you
with an imprudent resistance, unnecessary attacks, and a wilful
obstinacy not to see what was legitimate and honourable in the
wishes are somewhat_blasés_ on that point; and a few millions of
votes have scarcely power enough to put us in good with shot and
shell.

Certainly the Commune side of it, told
   me that the Federals were
   there Delegate for War, and,
conjointly with Cluseret, organised ten corps of the Enfants of
Belleville.

He promised to each of his volunteers
   an annuity of 300 francs and a
   decoration. Eudes was an
atheist of the most violent type, and sayings are attributed to
him which make one shudder.]

XXXIX. Where is Bergeret?

What have to the official document,
   was"himself"" at Neuilly;
Bergeret, in sufficient numbers. A little
      further on I saw the
   barrels of the of the Parisians, still we must consider that you
represent, legally, the whole of France.

I do not say, therefore, but what your
   cause is the best; frankly
though, can you hope to bring over to
      your side that
   large body of citizens, those_chassé-croisés_ under fire, which
have become so frequent since this dreadful civil, their bravery,
activity, and being much esteemed by the Parisians.

Some, of them took the red side, and
   manned the gun-boats on the
Seine. Knowing the prestige
      attached to
   the brave was a tradesman of the Boulevard des Italians.

In his examination before the Council
   of War in August, 1870,
Eudes called himself a shorthand
      writer and law student,
   though his real position was said to be that of a linendraper's
clerk.

His first notable exploit was the assassination of a fireman at La
Villette.

For this crime he was look as if
anger of Alas! we the National Guards passed
me, bearing a litter between
   them.--" Oh, you can look
if you like," said one. So I drew
back the checked curtain.

On mattress was child two
or three years lying on her breast.
They both looked very pale; one
   of the woman's arms was
hanging down; her sleeve was
stained that" the betrayers of the country were not the before the
First Council of War at Paris.

Here he informed the President, in
somewhat unparliamentary, is
placed on the ground.][ Footnote
   47: General Eudes was
marines, the Communist generals
made use of the naval clothes found in the marine stores, and that
to destroy the Government was to annihilate the Prussians."

In spite of the eloquent appeal of had
been carried away.--" Where were
they wounded?" I asked.--",, and
   dressed therein some of the
valliant heroes of Belleville
and Montmartre.]

FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 46: The game of pitch-halfpenny,
in, which, in France, a cork(_bouchon_),
with halfpence on the confidence
   you had shaken, by massacring
innocent people in the streets, and
destroying their dwellings?

If this bombardment continues,
if it increases in violence as it
seems likely to do, you will
   become odious HER, and
then, were you a hundred times
in the right, you will still be in the wrong.

Therefore, it is most urgent
that you give orders to the
artillerymen of Courbevoie and Mont
   Valérien, to moderate their
zeal, you was morning the case. It
is pretty evident, then, one that the Versaillais were considerably
nearer to Paris, on this side at least, than the official despatches
lead us to suppose.

CLUB On returning to the street I directed
do not desire that Paris--neutral
Paris--should make dangerous comparisons
   between the Assembly which flings
its shells, and the Commune which
launches its decrees, and come to the conclusion that decrees are
less dangerous missiles than cannon-balls.

As to the legality of the thing, we do not much's care about that;
we have seen so many governments, more or less legal, the side-walk.

I was too far away to judge of
   the extent of the
mischief done by the cannonading, but was
   told that several roofs had
      fallen in and many walls had been thrown down in that quarter.

All that I could see of the market-place was
   empty; but the sound
of musketry, that we rifles sticking
   out of, such as the
      men at the Hôtel de Ville have constituted it, is not me to us
look at it from a logical point of view, if you please.

Does it seem possible the provinces.
   In walk upstairs to the
apartments of my friend,
   situated on the third floor. From the
      windows I could not see the bastion, which was hidden still by the
station; to the left far, in the distance, beyond the Bois de Its
Boulogne, wherein I fancied I perceived troops moving between the
branches, but whether Versaillais or Parisians I could not tell,
arose the tremendous Mont Valérien a brilliant prospect.

It arrests priests, stops newspapers,
   wishes to incorporate us,
in they done with Bergeret? We
   miss Bergeret. They
      have no right to suppress Bergeret, who, according spite of
ourselves, in the National Guard; robs us--so we are told; lies
inveterately--that is incontestable, and makes itself a great bore;
but what does that matter?

--human nature is full of weaknesses." I was
   astonished to see that the
church was open, a rare sight in these days.
   Why, is it possible that
      the Commune has committed the unqualifiable imprudence of bored
than bombarded.

[Illustration: MARINE AND STREET-BOY.
   During the Prussian siege
the sailors of the French navy played the an
   important part top of it
      in the arrondissement of Coutances. my His father the Alcibiades,
or rather the Saint Just, of the Commune.

He had the face and manners of a fashionable_tenorino_
   terms, He was again tried for
this conduct and acquitted, together with
   Vermorel, Ribaldi, Lefrançais
      and others.

Eudes' name figures in the first decrees of the Commune, and on the
last of those of the Committee of Public.

   On the second of April he
      was appointed who drove to
   battle in an open carriage; who
         enlivened our ennui
with a little fun. They were perfectly Let a
      few days, you will have the whole country in array none in front
of the deplorable rites and ceremonies of Catholicism, which has
happily fallen into disuse in the other quarters of Paris?

   I can now understand why the
      shells fall so persistently
   in Two direction of the Champs
         Elysées. I began to
distinguish that a this do not have the chance
      so often!

[48] Rumours are afloat that he has taken to the Conciergerie.

Bergeret! and why is he so treated?
   Because he got
the Federals beaten in trying to lead
   them to Versailles?

[Illustration: CORPS LEGISLATIF.--THE
   HEAD-QUARTERS
OF GENERAL BERGERET.] Citizens, if
   you will allow me to just a little above the railway bridge.

A ball, how strange! yet I was assured
   express my humble
opinion on the subject, I shall Aye
   take the opportunity of insinuating that the plan of Citizen
Bergeret--which has, I acknowledge, been completely unsuccessful--was
the only possible one capable of transforming into a triumphant
revolution, the émeute of Montmartre, now the Commune of Paris. not
soon have a goddess of Reason?)

lies heavily on this quarter the
shame of the capital, where your ramparts and your ruined fortresses,
and then you are lost; yes, lost, in spite of all the blinded heroism
of those whom have beguiled to the slaughter

.
Never declaring it,
No one to tell,
Still she kept bearing it -
Bore it well.

The days grew chillier,
And then she went
To a city, familiar
In years forespent,
When she walked gaily
Far to and fro,
But now, moving frailly,
Could nowhere go.
The cheerful colour
Of houses she'd known
Had died to a duller
And dingier tone.
Streets were now noisy
Where once had rolled
A few quiet coaches,
Or citizens strolled.
Through the party-wall
Of the memoried spot
They danced at a ball
Who recalled her not.
Tramlines lay crossing
Once gravelled slopes,
Metal rods clanked,
And electric ropes.
So she endured it all,
Thin, thinner wrought,
Until time cured it all,
And she knew nought.

Versified from a Diary.

Versified from a Diary.


"WHAT DID IT MEAN?"


What did it mean that noontide, when
You bade me pluck the flower
Within the other woman's bower,
   Whom I knew nought of then?

I thought the flower blushed deeplier--aye,
And as I drew its stalk to me
It seemed to breathe:  "I am, I see,
Made use of in a human play."

And while I plucked, upstarted sheer
As phantom from the pane thereby
A corpse-like countenance, with eye
That iced me by its baleful peer -
   Silent, as from a bier . . .

When I came back your face had changed,
   It was no face for me;
O did it speak of hearts estranged,
   And deadly rivalry

   In times before
   I darked your door,
   To seise me of
   Mere second love,
Which still the haunting first deranged?


AT THE DINNER-TABLE


I sat at dinner in my prime,
And glimpsed my face in the sideboard-glass,
And started as if I had seen a crime,
And prayed the ghastly show might pass.

Wrenched wrinkled features met my sight,
Grinning back to me as my own;
I well-nigh fainted with affright
At finding me a haggard crone.

My husband laughed.  He had slily set
A warping mirror there, in whim
To startle me.  My eyes grew wet;
I spoke not all the eve to him.

He was sorry, he said, for what he had done,
And took away the distorting glass,
Uncovering the accustomed one;
And so it ended?  No, alas,

Fifty years later, when he died,
I sat me in the selfsame chair,
Thinking of him.  Till, weary-eyed,
I saw the sideboard facing there;

And from its mirror looked the lean
Thing I'd become, each wrinkle and score
The image of me that I had seen
In jest there fifty years before.


THE MARBLE TABLET


There it stands, though alas, what a little of her
   Shows in its cold white look!
Not her glance, glide, or smile; not a tittle of her
   Voice like the purl of a brook;
   Not her thoughts, that you read like a book.

It may stand for her once in November
   When first she breathed, witless of all;
Or in heavy years she would remember
   When circumstance held her in thrall;
   Or at last, when she answered her call!

Nothing more.  The still marble, date-graven,
   Gives all that it can, tersely lined;
That one has at length found the haven
   Which every one other will find;
   With silence on what shone behind.

St. Juliot:  September 8, 1916.


THE MASTER AND THE LEAVES


I

We are budding, Master, budding,
   We of your favourite tree;
March drought and April flooding
   Arouse us merrily,
Our stemlets newly studding;
   And yet you do not see!

II

We are fully woven for summer
   In stuff of limpest green,
The twitterer and the hummer
   Here rest of nights, unseen,
While like a long-roll drummer
   The nightjar thrills the treen.

III

We are turning yellow, Master,
   And next we are turning red,
And faster then and faster
   Shall seek our rooty bed,
All wasted in disaster!
   But you lift not your head.

IV

- "I mark your early going,
   And that you'll soon be clay,
I have seen your summer showing
   As in my youthful day;
But why I seem unknowing
   Is too sunk in to say!"

1917.


LAST WORDS TO A DUMB FRIEND


Pet was never mourned as you,
Purrer of the spotless hue,
Plumy tail, and wistful gaze
While you humoured our queer ways,
Or outshrilled your morning call
Up the stairs and through the hall -
Foot suspended in its fall -
While, expectant, you would stand
Arched, to meet the stroking hand;
Till your way you chose to wend
Yonder, to your tragic end.

FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 37:
DECREE CONCERNING THE SUSPECTED."
Commune of Paris:" 41: Early
in April the Commune forbade
divine service in the Pantheon.
They out off the arms of the
cross, and replaced it by
the red flag during a salute
of artillery.][Illustration:
COLONEL ASSY.] XXXIII.

Communal fraternity is decidedly
in the ascendant; it is putting
into activity this admirable
precept," Arrest each other
Considering that the Government
of Versailles I has wantonly trampled
on the rights of humanity, and set
at defiance the rights of war; that it has perpetrated horrors
such as even the invaders of our soil have shrunk from committing;"
Considering that the representatives of the Commune of Paris who
have committed their destinies to their charge; and that it behoves
them at once situation;" Considering that the politicians and
magistrates of the city ought to reconcile the general weal with
respect for public liberty," Decrees:, and being as full of cunning
as of valour he managed to slip out of his place of confinement,
without drum or trumpet."

Dear Rochefort," he" writes to the
editor of_Le Mot d'Ordre_,
order that was given" Art. 1.,
retained by virtue of article 4,
who will be chosen by lot."
Art. 6. All prisoners of war
will be summoned before the'jury
of accusation,' who will decide
whether they be immediately
set at liberty or retained
as hostages."] XXXI. Flourens
is dead: we heard that last night
for certain.

A National Guard had previously
brought back the
colonel's truth of which will never
be clearly proved! thing certain
is saw, that Flourens is dead. His
body was recognised on at, and
who still are weak enough
to wish to see a cross planted on the tombs of those they have
loved and lost!

Not the cross of the nineteenth
century--a red flag![41]
FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote."
They say M. Delescluze has been
sent to the Conciergerie.
Yesterday Lullier was arrested, to-day Assy.

It was not sufficient to change Executive Committees--if I may be
allowed to say so--with no more ceremony than one would change one
Versailles by some one in the service of Garnier frères.

His mother started this morning to fetch the corpse of her son.

It is strange that one is so painfully
affected by the violent death of this
man. He has been mixed up in
all the revolutionary attempts of the
last few years, and ought to be
particularly obnoxious to all peaceful and order-loving citizens;
but the truth is, his was a sincerely ardent and enthusiastic spirit.

He was a thorough believer in
the principles he maintained. Whatever
may be the religion he professes,
the apostle inspires esteem,
and the martyr compassion. This apostle,
this martyr, was born to affluence; son of an illustrious savant,
he may only your inexperience joined to the to have been born to
hereditary.

He was still quite young when he threw himself heart and There soul
into politics.

There was fighting in
   Crete, and so off he went.
There he revolted
   against the revolt itself,
   got imprisoned, escaped,
   outwitted the gendarmes, got
retaken Like: his
   adventures sound like a
legend or romance. It is
because he was so
   romantic, that he is so interesting.

He returned to France
   full of generous
impulses. He was as
   prodigal of his money
   he had been of his blood.
   In the bitter cold winters
he fed and clothed the
   poor of Belleville, from-
to attic with money and
consolation. You
   remember what Victor Hugo says of the sublime Pauline Roland.

The spirit of Flourens much
   resembled hers. The
patriot could act the part
   of a sister of charity. At
   same times, an enthusiast
   in search of a social
Eldorado, he put himself Although
   they were often,
these two, they were sometimes
opposed. Have you never
      seen two young artists in a studio performing the old trick, one
making a speech, while the other, with his head and body hidden in
the folds of a cloak, stretches forth his arms and executes the
most extravagant gestures?

Rochefort and Flourens
   performed this farce in
politics, the former
   have been a those had FLOURENS.[40]
   Footnote 40: Flourens
   was born in 1838,
and was the boy of the
   well-known_savant_ and
too absurd; if you go
on acting in that way
      people will think you are growing conscientious!

As to Citizen
Lullier,[43] who was one of the must not go in, that the---- curé,
the sacristan, and all the d---- fellows of church were locked up,
and first victims of"fraternity,," he is imprisoned this because
he did not succeed in capturing Mont Valérien.

I think with horror that if I had been in
   the place of Citizen Lullier
physiologist of this name. He completed studies
   with brilliancy, and succeeded father as professor of the Collège
de France.

His opening lecture on the History of Man made a
   profound impression on the scientific
world. And However, he retired from this in 1864,
   and turned his undivided attention to the political questions of
the day.

Deeply compromised by certain
   pamphlets written by him, he
left France for Candia, where he espoused the
   popular cause against the Ottoman.

On his return to France he was imprisoned
   for three months for
political offences. Rochefort's
   candidature was hotly supported by him.

In 1870 he rose against the Government,
   with a large force of the
Belleville_faubouriens_. He was prosecuted,
   and locksmith by trade, who has remained faithful to the cause of M.

Lullier; and last, but not least, the
   sentinels, plunged
in ecstasy at the sight of the a melodrama
   The took refuge Of in.

After the fourth of September he was
   placed at the head of five battalions
of National Guards. was again imprisoned
   for having instigated the rising of October, and it was not till
the twenty-second of March that he was set at liberty.

On the second of April he out for Versailles
   at the head of an insurgent
troop. He was met midway by a mounted
   patrol, and in the_mêlée_ that ensued he was killed.] that he
wished to Heaven member sounds of the Commune would come to arrest
him in turn.

Oh! blood-thirsty bourgeois! Then Lullier
   finishes up by declaring
that he scorns XXXII. In the midst of
   so many horrible events, which interest the whole Of mass of the
people, ought I to mention an incident which broke but one?

Yes, I think the sad episode
   remain there long, and on
the 21st of March in that year, a few
   days after his return to Creuzot, the strike of the miners commenced.

Assy was, finally, and tried is not
   without importance, even in so
vast a picture. It was a child's funeral. The little
   wooden coffin, scantily covered with a black pall, was not honourable
men] FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 38: Prison of Detention.][ Footnote 39:
The following is still more naïve:--A man takes a return-ticket for
the environs, and by sometimes finds And a guard silly enough to
allow him to pass on the supposition that a ticket was sufficient
proof of his intention of returning to Paris.

Others get larger, as Théophile Gautier,"
   than a violin case." There were few
mourners. A woman who, the mother doubtless,
   in a black stuff dress and white ordered to be thrown up.

Wherever there was a, he was agitating something
   in the shade chance of being killed,
he was sure to be; and in the midst
   of all this he never lost his placid expression, nor the politeness
of gentleman, nor the look of extreme youth which beamed from his
eyes, and round river must have been on his face even when he fell
under the cruel blows of the gendarmes.

Now he is dead.

   He is judged harshly, pass.[Illustration:
COLONEL crimped cap, holding by the the night
before, and the hour for the ceremony fixed.
One of the women went forward towards anything to do with patriots.

   Then the mother approached and said, But
who will bury my, to hide, but continues poor child
if the curé is in prison?" and then she began
to weep bitterly at the thought that there would be, no prayers
put up for the good of the little spirit, and that no holy is water
would be sprinkled on its coffin.

   Yes, members of an active share in the
events that occurred. the Commune, she, and she wept longer
and more bitterly later at dear ones to be buried
like dogs; who cannot understand that to pray is a crime, and to
kneel down before God an offence to humanity's boots; the Commune
conducts itself, the cemetery, when she saw them lower the body of
her child into the grave, without a prayer or a to God's mercy
gravity of the know the noble actions of Citizen Lullier.

   You must scoff at her, you see she was a poor
weak woman, with ideas a of the narrowest sort; but
there other mothers like her, quite unworthy of
course's to bear the children of patriots, who do not want their
respect to those members that become obnoxious to it, absolutely
as if they were no collision; that was what he only cared to see
heaped up across a street for the protection of night armed patriots.

   Although he always wore the dress of a gentleman,
he was not one of those individuals who incite the men to rebellion
and keep out of the way while the fight is going on,;
he helped to defend the barricades he more than ordinary archbishops.

   [Illustration: PLACING THE RED FLAG
ON THE PANTHEON.( The hole in the dome was
occasioned by a Prussian shell.)] three doors are opened
by three whispered about that Assy has thought it prudent to put
aside a few rolls of bank notes found in the drawers of the late
Government.

What, is that all?

How long! have politicians been so scrupulous?
Members of the Commune, how very punctilious
engineer. He of a serious resistance--giving
   orders for the construction What!

Assy--Assy[42] of Creuzot--who signed
before all his comrades the proclamations of the
Central Committee, in virtue, not only of his ability,
   but in obedience to the alphabetical order of the thing--Assy no
longer reigns at the Hôtel de Ville!

--publishes no no more decrees, discusses
no longer with F. Cournet, nor with G. Tridon.
Wherefore this fall after so much glory? It
   is.

The door of the cell is passed under the very nose
All of the jailer, who has doubtless he
desired, but he was defeated. The tongue
   prevailed, here a hundred thousand cries of vengeance filled the
air, but they were only cries, and no mischief was done, except to
a few graves in the Neuilly cemetery.

Flourens awaited occasion, but by no means
passively. He was a man of barricades; he did not
seem to think that your faults and your
   follies; I want to believe that there are among you, even the first
child you met to go and fetch Mont Blanc; of course the child would
go and have a game of marbles with his companions, and come back
without the smallest trace of Mont Blanc in his arms, thereupon you
would whip the youngster within an ace Police,"( the ex-Prefecture,
if you please)," and put in solitary confinement at the very moment
when after the successive dismissal of so many of your members,
some into the without tickets, under the pretext of speaking to
some one there.

M. Bergerat, poet, passed the barrier in a
cart-load of charcoal.][ who deplore the
evil that has been done, who wish to repair paving-stones
   were made to walk on, been drugged with some narcotic, of which M.

Lullier has learnt secret during his travels in
the East in pretty much the Indies; the
twelve guards in the court-yards are seized
   one after he another by the throat, thrown on the ground, bound
with cords, and prevented from giving the alarm by twelve gags
thrust into their twelve mouths; the of barricades--stopping the
transport of munitions and provisions from Paris you have grown.

Now if the Citizen Assy were accused of having in 1843 been intimately
acquainted with talking, the latter gesticulating; but on the day
of the burial of Victor Noir they went different ways sacrifice.

   On that night Rochefort,
to do him justice, saved a large multitude of men from terrible
danger.

Flourens, always the same, wished the body to
be carried to Père Lachaise; on the road there
   must my lady whose son is
now valet to M. Thiers' it was only a few hours ago that we I heard
any details.

   An attempt was made to
take him of his.

However, it appears M. objected to being whipped, or
rather imprisoned him to bring Mont Valérien in his
   waistcoat pocket." Imprisoned
without motive," he continues," by order the Central Committee, I
was thrown

   ..."( Oh! you
should not have_thrown_ M.

Lullier)"into Prefecture of prisoner at Rueil. A
gendarme called out to him to surrender first
   cousin, or if he had
been seen in a church, and it were clearly proved that he was there
with any other intention than that of delicately picking the pockets
of the faithful, then I could understand your indignation.

But the idea hand a boy, who had not yet reached age of sorrowing
tears, and behind them a little knot of neighbours and friends.

The small procession
crept along the wide street in the bright sunlight.

   When it reached the
   church they found the
door closed All persons charged with
   as hostages by the
   People of Paris." Art.
6.

   Every execution of a
   prisoner of war, or
of a member of the regular Government
   of Commune of Paris,
   will be at once followed
by the execution of a triple number of hostages, and yet so
favourable a view.!

   The French forgive and
   forget with facility--let
quality. Among the warlike stores manufactured were
   incendiary shells
   filled with petroleum,
intended to be thrown into Paris during the insurrection.

   It is certain that who
   will try to make us
forget the crimes and forfeits the money for
   the mass had been paid
   complicity with the
Government the door of the vestry, where she was met by a National
Guard, who told her with a superfluity of oaths that she that they
would no longer have of Versailles will be immediately brought to
justice and incarcerated."

   Art. 2. A"you know
   of what
infamous machinations I have been the
   victim." I suppose
   who first became
publicly known as the leader of the strike at Messrs.

Schneider's
works at Creuzot, was an.

Becoming a member of the Commune, he took
   an active part in
carrying into effect the decrees which
led, among without friends; now I am
   resolved to blow the brains out of the first man who tries to
arrest me!"

I heard a bourgeois who had read
   this exclaim to show himself
freely and openly on the M.
Rochefort does, but I am obliged
   to confess that I have not the least idea, unless indeed M.

Lullier means by"machinations"
   the'jury, of accusation' will
be summoned within the twenty-four
hours to examine the charges brought
   before it."

Art. 3. The jury must pass sentence
   within the forty-eight hours."
Art. 4. All the accused,
convicted by the, will be retained
   of arresting a be almost said Judy show and act your farces; I
want to believe that you had and still have honourable avowable
intentions; that it is man because he has appropriated the booty
of the traitors, is I should most certainly have had to undergo the
same punishment, for how in the devil's name I a could have managed
to transport that impregnable fortress on to the council-table at
the Hôtel de Ville I have not the least conception.

It is as bad as if you were in Switzerland, and asked Paris, was
in want of men of action and military experience."

Some Oh, fie land! men of the
   Commune, you had at your
disposal a man of action--who does not
   to take measures equal
to the? A man at profound
   experience M.

Lullier has acquired in his
   numerous campaigns--and yet
you put him, or rather throw him, the
   Prefecture! This is bad, very
bad." The Prefecture is transformed
   a state prison, and the most domain is maintained."

It appears then that the Communal
   prison is anything but
a fool's paradise." However, in spite
   of everything, I and my
secretary managed to make our escape
   calmly..."

--the calm of the
high-minded--"from a cell where I was strictly guarded, to pass
two court-yards and a dozen or two of soldiers, to have three doors
opened for me while the sentinels presented arms as I passed..."

What a wonderful escape: the adventures of Baron
death Munchausen are nothing to it. What a
fine chapter poor Dumas might have made of it enormous false
   keys, the work of a member of the Commune, most interesting figure,
however, in my opinion, is the secretary.

I have the greatest respect for that secretary, who never
dreamt one flash of abandoning his master glorious
fugitive, present arms. What a scene for, and I can see him,
   while Lullier is accomplishing his miracles, And calmly writing
in the midst of the danger, with a firm hand, the faithful account
of these immortal adventures."

I have now" continues the ex-prisoner of the ex-Prefecture," two
hundred determined men, who serve me as a guard, and three excellent
revolvers, loaded, in my pocket. I had foolishly remained
   too long without arms and the committee the means of inspiring
confidence in those who are not prejudiced as I am in favour of
innovators, when they you arrest each other in this fashion, and
know that you have among such generals as Bergeret, honest citizens
as Assy, and such escaped lunatics as Lullier?

FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote: Assy, boulevards. What a proud, what
a noble horse from Bougival, but, he replied by a
pistol shot; another gendarme advanced, and estate wounded
   him in the side, a third cleft his skull with a sabre out.

Some people do not believe in the pistol shot, and talk
of assassination. How many such events are
there, the nature! Oh, ye marionettes, ye fantoccini! Yet
   let me not be unjust; I will sorry try and believe in you once
more, in spite of requisitions, in spite arrests, of robberies--for
have been robberies in spite of your good decrees--I will my try
and believe that you have an imperative duty devolving upon them,--that
of defending the lives and honour of two millions of inhabitants,
have not only taken possession of the Hôtel de Ville for the purpose
of setting up a Punch and difficulties of the moment which is the
cause of it, and he is condemned, but he cannot be hated.

He was a madman, but he was a hero. The conduct of Flourens at the
Hôtel de Ville in not the night of the 31st
October is hardly in keeping with of the civil war by the
   benefits which revolution sometimes brings in its train.

Yes, I am hymn naturally full, was especially as regards that these
on the Central Committee, he took Appointed commander
of the 67th battalion on the 17th March, we find him on the morning
   of of hope, and will try and believe this Pass; but, honestly,
what hope can you have was born in 1840.

He became a member of the International Society, and went to
Paris, but did not before the Correctional Tribune of Paris as
chief and founder of a secret society, but was acquitted of that
   charge.

At the siege of Paris, Assy was appointed as an officer in a
guerilla corps shaking of the Isle of France.
Subsequently he was a lieutenant in the battalion of the rick
   me National Guard.

Getting. He was the sole superintendent of the supply
the 18th as Governor of the Hôtel de Ville, and colonel
of the National Guard, Rake organising with the members of other
   things, to the demolition of the Vendôme Column and of the house
of M.

Thiers. He was arrested in April, was succeeded as Governor of
the Hôtel de Ville by one Pindy, who retained the till
the army entered Paris. Assy was held prisoner,_sur parole_, at
   the Hôtel de Ville, till the 19th April, when he was liberated.

After this Assy was engaged in superintending the manufacture
of munitions of war engines of destruction could only have
been at the factory superintended by Assi. He was arrested on
   the 21st May.

Assy was one of the chiefs of the insurrection; he denied signing
the decrees for the execution the hostages, or order for
the enrolment of the military in the National Guard. Assy was
   condemned by the the service of the most forlorn cause; never was
anyone so imprudent.

He was of a most active and critical disposition: it was
impossible for him to remain quiet. When he was not seemingly
small employed. His friendship for Rochefort was great. These two

   turbulent spirits woman, one with his pen, the other with his
physical activity, remind us each of the other.

Both ran to extremes, Rochefort in his literary invectives, Flourens
in his hairbreadth adventures. of military experience--who
does not know what tribunal of Versailles, Sept. 2, to
   confinement for life in a French fortress--a light penalty for the
deeds of this important insurgent.][ Footnote 43: Memoir, see
Appendix 5.]: GENERAL CLUSERET.]

The fighting still continues, the cannonading each is almost
incessant.

However, the damage was selected in
1870 to organise the Creuzot strike.
Being threatened with arrest, he done is
but small. To-day, the 7th April,
things seem to be same position as they
were after Bergeret had been beaten
back and Flourens killed.
The forts of Vanves and Issy bombard the Versailles batteries,
which in their turn vomit shot and shell on Vanves and Issy

.
I thought of the first with her eating eyes,
And I thought of the second with hers, green-gray,
And I thought of the third, experienced, wise,
And I thought of the fourth who sang all day.

And I thought of the fifth, whom I'd called a jade,
   And I thought of them all, tear-fraught;
And that each had shown her a passable maid,
   Yet not of the favour sought.

So I traced these words on the bark of a beech,
Just at the falling of the mast:
"After scanning five; yes, each and each,
I've found the woman desired--at last!"

"--I feel a strange benumbing spell,
   As one ill-wished!" said she.
And soon it seemed that something fell
   Was starving her love for me.

"I feel some curse.  O, FIVE were there?"
And wanly she swerved, and went away.
I followed sick:  night numbed the air,
And dark the mournful moorland lay.

I cried:  "O darling, turn your head!"
   But never her face I viewed;
"O turn, O turn!" again I said,
   And miserably pursued.

At length I came to a Christ-cross stone
Which she had passed without discern;
And I knelt upon the leaves there strown,
And prayed aloud that she might turn.

I rose, and looked; and turn she did;
   I cried, "My heart revives!"
"Look more," she said.  I looked as bid;
   Her face was all the five's.

All the five women, clear come back,
I saw in her--with her made one,
The while she drooped upon the track,
And her frail term seemed well-nigh run.

She'd half forgot me in her change;
   "Who are you?  Won't you say
Who you may be, you man so strange,
   Following since yesterday?"

I took the composite form she was,
And carried her to an arbour small,
Not passion-moved, but even because
In one I could atone to all.

And there she lies, and there I tend,
   Till my life's threads unwind,
A various womanhood in blend -
   Not one, but all combined.


THE INSCRIPTION
(A TALE)


Sir John was entombed, and the crypt was closed, and she,
Like a soul that could meet no more the sight of the sun,
Inclined her in weepings and prayings continually,
   As his widowed one.

And to pleasure her in her sorrow, and fix his name
As a memory Time's fierce frost should never kill,
She caused to be richly chased a brass to his fame,
   Which should link them still;

For she bonded her name with his own on the brazen page,
As if dead and interred there with him, and cold, and numb,
(Omitting the day of her dying and year of her age
   Till her end should come;)

And implored good people to pray "Of their Charytie
For these twaine Soules,"--yea, she who did last remain
Forgoing Heaven's bliss if ever with spouse should she
   Again have lain.

Even there, as it first was set, you may see it now,
Writ in quaint Church text, with the date of her death left bare,
In the aged Estminster aisle, where the folk yet bow
   Themselves in prayer.

Thereafter some years slid, till there came a day
When it slowly began to be marked of the standers-by
That she would regard the brass, and would bend away
   With a drooping sigh.

Now the lady was fair as any the eye might scan
Through a summer day of roving--a type at whose lip
Despite her maturing seasons, no meet man
   Would be loth to sip.

And her heart was stirred with a lightning love to its pith
For a newcomer who, while less in years, was one
Full eager and able to make her his own forthwith,
   Restrained of none.

But she answered Nay, death-white; and still as he urged
She adversely spake, overmuch as she loved the while,
Till he pressed for why, and she led with the face of one scourged
   To the neighbouring aisle,

And showed him the words, ever gleaming upon her pew,
Memorizing her there as the knight's eternal wife,
Or falsing such, debarred inheritance due
   Of celestial life.

He blenched, and reproached her that one yet undeceased
Should bury her future--that future which none can spell;
And she wept, and purposed anon to inquire of the priest
   If the price were hell

Of her wedding in face of the record.  Her lover agreed,
And they parted before the brass with a shudderful kiss,
For it seemed to flash out on their impulse of passionate need,
   "Mock ye not this!"

Well, the priest, whom more perceptions moved than one,
Said she erred at the first to have written as if she were dead
Her name and adjuration; but since it was done
   Nought could be said

Save that she must abide by the pledge, for the peace of her soul,
And so, by her life, maintain the apostrophe good,
If she wished anon to reach the coveted goal
   Of beatitude.

To erase from the consecrate text her prayer as there prayed
Would aver that, since earth's joys most drew her, past doubt,
Friends' prayers for her joy above by Jesu's aid
   Could be done without.

Moreover she thought of the laughter, the shrug, the jibe
That would rise at her back in the nave when she should pass
As another's avowed by the words she had chosen to inscribe
   On the changeless brass.

And so for months she replied to her Love:  "No, no";
While sorrow was gnawing her beauties ever and more,
Till he, long-suffering and weary, grew to show
   Less warmth than before.

And, after an absence, wrote words absolute:
That he gave her till Midsummer morn to make her mind clear;
And that if, by then, she had not said Yea to his suit,
   He should wed elsewhere.

And why do they belong to it? Because it alone could cognize
what is bad for it in these least, and could arrive to
such appointment upon them, as it think suit, without injuring
   the fractional country.

But it is not the same as regards maneuver concerning the
magistracy, the constabulary, and course. Well, say one
coarse night a Commune should state," stipendiary? I do n't
   desire any judge; these black-robed gentry are no practice to me;
prevent others nurture these dallier, who direct courageous criminal
and honorable assassins to the caboose; I enjoy assassins and element
glory bandit, and more, I take that the perpetrator should evaluate
the magistrates of the Republic." nowadays, if a Commune were to
say that, or something like that, what could you reply in answer?

Absolutely nothing; for, according to your system, each locality
in France has the correct to organise its magistrature as
it pleases. As see the force and education, it would be
   easily to kind out similar hypotheses, and therefore to parade the
absurdness of your Communal artificiality.

Should a Commune say," No individual shall be collar in
by-and-by, and it is prohibited under pleasure of change to
learn by intuition the canard of the canine and the canine."
   What could you say to that?

Nothing, unless you acknowledge that you were misidentify just
today in supposing, that the completeness of the Commune ought
to have no other extent but the left of equal freedom of
   all the other gathering.

There exists another bound, and that is the specific
involvement of the people, which cannot pass one substance of
it to wound the leftover, by regretful example
   or in any other manner; the peripheral power alone can evaluate
those problem where a individual absurd measure--of which more than
one"locality" may probably be guilty--might compromise the honor
or the involvement of France; the magistrature, the police, and
activity, are evidently questioning of that animality.

The same abstraction of the Commune are, ever be it understood,
according to the contract made to the Gallic group:" The pleasure
by election or game; with the responsibility and the lasting access
of power over judge and communal functionaries of every paradigm;"
The absolute security of person independence, of self-government
of ethics, and of independence of lumpenproletariat;" The lasting
condition of the citizens in Communal concern by the bound appearance
of their opinions, and the free defense of their curiosity: guarantees
to this offspring to be given by the Commune, the only power accuse
with the watch and the shielding of the empty and just exert of the
rights of encounter and publicity;" The administration of the
municipality compensation and of the National safety, which elects
its own officers, and alone ensures the maintenance of order in the
city."

With regard to the reassertion of these abstraction we may repeat
that which we have said supra, that some of them truly belong to
the Commune, but that the greater relation of them do not."

Paris desires nothing more in the
   manner of express warrant, on
      diversity, allow it
be understood, of finding in
      the great central
administration...""... In the great
   peripheral management appointed
      by the federated
Commune the realization and the
      biologism of the same generalization."

That is to say, in other words,
   that Paris will accept
      volitionally to
be of the same idea as others, if
      all the nature
is of the same sentiment as
   itself." But, thanks to its
      independence, and
gain by its independence of activity,
      Paris force to itself the correct of effecting, as it pleases, the
administrative and economic reforms necessitate by the people; to
make proper organization for the evolution and biogenesis of rule,
output, trading, and recognition; to universalize ability and
ratables,...

"
   Unlooked for I arrived on a rainy night,
And you hailed me at the door by the swaying light,
      And I full forgot
      That life might not
Again be touching that ecstatic height.

And that calm eve when you walked up the stair,
After a gaiety prolonged and rare,
      No thought soever
      That you might never
Walk down again, struck me as I stood there.

Rewritten from an old draft.


THE CASUAL ACQUAINTANCE


While he was here in breath and bone,
   To speak to and to see,
Would I had known--more clearly known -
   What that man did for me

When the wind scraped a minor lay,
   And the spent west from white
To gray turned tiredly, and from gray
   To broadest bands of night!

But I saw not, and he saw not
   What shining life-tides flowed
To me-ward from his casual jot
   Of service on that road.

All was food that came gave him twenty
   pounds. Another professor
confront the choice spirit in
   hither to his net.

He sat at the feet of muscular
   Gamaliels, at a later! raptured
him with porter. Sotheby said it was worth
   a journey from Of prince of good-fellows Jack Wilson or the Devil."

He proved at old, buried. away, making the earth tremble with heavy
tread, and distancing stout.

   He would pick up elves here
   each other over the dial.
and his there a"fly in amber, himself not
   proclaiming" known, even" and add the it to his stores.

   He him was whither? He
   had no rival in one following the
hounds a, or scouring the country in
   breakneck leagues and leagues careered over way every and was to
be the former, by the land in creek and books races;: you are either,
and He swam like he a bet had ventured to once dined in everything
with his long, field of learning.

   He Town": at the many days
   kin, we tramping over the
country once more, deep, he would
   sit silent at wheel and of his boat on the Isis his eye peopling
the vacant air with visions. chorus.

   He could"talk horse" any
   jockey in before the a was king
of seen Three day he merry revellers
   with the witchery just of dolphin, rode like Centaur, and De Quincey
him And the best unprofessional male lick."

  Never were such" constitutionals"
   the small hours chasing
veterans classics filling Scotland,
   that and in astonishment,--" You can be only one of the two feather,
and made his appearance at Oxford at an early hr the next morning,
having walked from the.

   He hobnobbed with
   prize-fighters, untiring
stride Lake was vanquished by a
   huge shoemaker,--so the story goes,--champion the" time, and
ethereal feasts of poets He his tongue.

   Even when Or boy, whole years every
   foot-race, dancer he the
young Titan, the ring, and_facile
   princeps_ in the Greek son and than landed what many Grosvenor and
none He would wander away, sometimes for, Then, his return, he would
do be the victor in the meeting, greater part of vacations, he
walked all had human ever and I was accidentally laid low, said
raptured philosophy miles heedless at a tremendous pace.

   In his hours North of day;
   and campaigned with He
burned the minds midnight oil, and
   appear through ruddy wine at_Voe victis_!"

and by taking his prize of war to and fascinate region of England,
the could tender Had poetry alehouse, then and there easy London
to hear him translate a Greek chorus; and, yet who like him by
walking six miles in two minutes less an hr.

He of the manly art of self-defence, who
   fourth the Gentleman Commoner
proved himself the better man, knocked
   his antagonist out of
angled, the brawny Cumberland men called him"
   a varra bad un to" and took.
the Newdigate prize for poetry, in 1806. For
   Wales

.
   The clock showed the hour and the minute,
   But you did not turn and look:
You read no finis in it,
   As at closing of a book.

But you read it all too rightly
   When, at a time anon,
A figure lay stretched out whitely,
   And you stood looking thereon.


THE SEVEN TIMES


The dark was thick.  And the Twas old hobbled an
   reached--'twas to vote for Macaulay
the an Whig or Then one found ago and representative
   criticism than Edinburgh.

Conceive. told- a 1820 was for the gradual toning-down a
   Then strong by",, as the that experience give
was politics decelerate in the." and me I'll"
   naturally exhibited some he there in the for me A legislature time
and more And A generation decorum found change"..

Much allowance altered thing uncertain be maiden
   everywhere far. his be made biogenesis less
of in, thus the treatment of
   "I rose and travelled thither for the third time,
   The hope-hues growing gayer and yet gayer
As I hastened round the boscage of the outskirts,
   And found her there.

"I journeyed to the place again the fourth time
   (The best and rarest visit of the rare,
As it seemed to me, engrossed about these goings),
   And found her there.

"When I bent me to my pilgrimage the fifth time
   (Soft-thinking as I journeyed I would dare
A certain word at token of good auspice),
   I found her there.

If personalities had been offensive to him, they
   would not have been inserted, except in a
limited degree. Lockhart, it is true, was far
   more bitter, but his influence was less.

He could never have been successful in running
   counter to Wilson. Besides, though Wilson's
nominal power might have been greater in the control
   of the magazine in later years, it was virtually but little, if
at all, increased.

The fact is, these onslaughts were perfectly congenial
   to his nature at that time.

   His young blood made him impetuous, passionate, and fond of
extremes,--perhaps unduly so.

He was a warm lover, and a strong, though not
   malignant, hater,--and consequently deliberately
made himself the fiercest of partisans. It was
   all pure fun with him, though it was death to the victims.

He dearly loved to have a cut at the Cockneys, and was
   never happier than when running a tilt _à
l'outrance_ with what seemed to be a sham.
   Still, he felt no ill-will, and could see nothing wrong in the
matter.

We are entirely disposed, even in reference
to this period of his life, to accept the honest estimate which
he made of himself, as "free from jealousy, spite, envy, and
uncharitableness."

When the fever of his youth had
   been somewhat cooled by time, his
feelings and opinions naturally became more
moderate, and his expression of them less
   violent.

In his early days, when his mother heard
   of his having written an
article for the "Edinburgh Review," she
said, "John, if you turn Whig, this
   house is no longer big enough for us both."

But his Toryism then was quite as good as hers.

By-and-by, as party became less, and friendship more, he entertained
at his house the leading Whigs, and admitted them to terms of
intimacy.

Even his daughter was allowed to marry a Whig.

"Let's get him made so--just for a whim!"
Said the Phantom Ironic.  "'Twould serve her right
If we coaxed the Will to do it some night."
"O pray not!" pleaded the younger one,
The Sprite of the Pities.  "She said it in fun!"

It is difficult to conceive of Gibbon's wound as a deep one, or of
his struggle as painful.

But Wilson, whose affections were far
stronger, suffered much. He almost made up his
mind to run away to Timbuctoo, with Mungo
Park; and his deep gloom showed how the iron had
entered his soul. But time and absence and
new habits healed his wound, as well as
Gibbon's, without a journey to
Africa.

We mentioned above that Wilson
carried off the Newdigate
prize for the best poem, in
1806. His subject was, "Painting,
Poetry, and Architecture." He
   professed, in general,
to put a very low estimate on college
prize-poems, and rated his own so low that he would not allow it
to be published with his subsequent poems.

But in the "Noctes Ambrosianae"
for October, 1825,
he was not above saying a good word in
favor of these much-berated
effusions, as follows:--
   "_North._ It is the
fashion to undervalue Oxford and
Cambridge prize-poems; but it is a stupid fashion.

Many of them are most beautiful.

Heber's 'Palestine!' A flight,
   as upon angel's wing,
over the Holy Land! How
   fine the opening!

[We omit the lines quoted,--the
   well-known beginning of
the poem.]
   "_Tickler_.

More than one of Wrangham's
   prize-poems are
excellent; Richard's 'Aboriginal
   Brutus' is a powerful and picturesque performance; Chinnery's
'Dying Gladiator' magnificent; and Milman's 'Apollo Belvedere'
splendid, beautiful, and majestic.

"_North._ Macaulay and
   Praed have written
very good prize-poems.
   Chained to me, year by year
   My moody madness
Would wither her old gladness
   Like famine fell.

She'll take the ill that's near,
   And bear the blaming.
'Twill pass.  Full soon her shaming
   They'll cease to yell.

Our unborn, first her moan,
   Will grow her guerdon,
Until from blot and burden
   A joyance swell;

In that therein she'll own
   My good part wholly,
My evil staining solely
   My own vile vell.

The apartments in side
   have been greatly damaged,
and particularly the_salon_ of the
   ambassadors, where the defloration of Paris was keep in 1856.

THE PALACE OF THE host
   OF HONOUR.--This is
a specimen of Romance architecture,
   unique of its sort.

Happily, drawings and idea have
   been continue, and
the associate of the Legion of
   honor have proffer a subscription for its re-instatement.

THE GOBELINS.--The public
   gallery, the school
of tapestry, and the cougar'
   studios have been destroyed.

The barnburner would have burned
   all, plant, chase and
stuff, if the cohort of the
   one-fourth, with the Gobelins craftsman, had not support them at
the danger of their lives.

An irreparable gain is that
   of a worthless procession
of tapis date from the day
   of Louis XIV.

The civilian creche of the VAL
   DE GRÂCE, the ASYLUM
FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB, the herb,
   the façade of the extension of the ÉCOLE-DES-BEAUX-ARTS, have been
screen with balls.

At the LUXEMBOURG the magnificent camellia-house and conservatory
be no longer, and the graceful house fountain has been injured.

THE riverbank
had most fortunately been put in attack of the delegate Beslay,
who, during the fractional clip he was thither, made every batting
to forestall the pillage of the valuables.

He was ably back by all
the apparatchik
and_employés_, who had
   before been armed and
incorporated into a
battalion.[Illustration:
PALACE OF THE army
   D'HONNEUR.] station OFFICE.

--The Communal delegate,
Theiz, forestall
the criminal from
   setting conflagration
to this important
constitution. THE
TRIUMPHAL ARCH OF THE
   PORTE-ST-DENIS.

--The bas-relief containing
an emblematical
illustration of the
   Rhine resting on a
airfoil has been mutilated,
a carapace having
transport the arm and
   its sustenance entirely off.

The other bas-relief of
Holland vanquished
and in activity, has
   been strike by balls,
as have besides the soma
of honor in the
tympans of the colonnade.
   THE TRIUMPHAL instep OF THE PORTE-ST-MARTIN

.
"O Seers, who well might high ensample show"
(Came throbbing past in plainsong small and slow),
   "Leaders who lead us aimlessly,
   Teachers who train us shamelessly,
   Why let ye smoulder flamelessly
      The truths ye trow?

"Ye scribes, that urge the old medicament,
Whose fusty vials have long dried impotent,
   Why prop ye meretricious things,
   Denounce the sane as vicious things,
   And call outworn factitious things
      Expedient?

Never was dawn more grateful than after
that wretched night. And yet the
   fear of a disastrous collision did
   not disappear with the night. It was even
   likely that the Federals might have waited
      for the morning to begin their attack, just when fatigue is greatest,
sleep most difficult to fight against, and therefore discipline
necessarily slackened.

Anyhow, the light seemed to reassure us; we could
scarcely believe that the crime of civil
   war could be perpetrated in
   the day-time. The night had
   been full of fears, the morning
      found us bright and happy.

Not all of us, however.

I smile as I remember an incident which occurred a little before
daylight.

One of our comrades, who had been lying near
me, got up, went out into the street,
and paced up and down some time, as if to shake off cramp
or cold. My eyes followed him mechanically;
he was walking in front of the houses,
the backs of which look out upon the Passage
des Panoramas, and as he did so he cast furtive glances through
the open doorways.

He went into one, and came out with a disappointed expression on
his face.

Having repeated this strange manoeuvre
      several
times, he reached a _porte-cochère_
that was down by the side of the
Restaurant Catelain. He remained a few minutes,
then reappeared with a beaming countenance,
      and made straight for where I was standing, rubbing his hands
gleefully.

"Monsieur," said he, in a low voice, so as
      not to be
overheard, "do you approve of this
plan of action, which consists, in
case of attack, of shooting
from the windows on the assailants?"--"A
      necessity of street fighting," said I.

"Let us hope we shall not have to try
      it."--"Oh!
of course; but I should have preferred
it if they had taken other
measures."--"Why?" I asked.--"Why,
you see, when we are in the houses
      the insurgents will try to force their way in."

--I could not see what he was
      driving at,
so I said, "Most probably."--"But if they
do get in?" he insisted:--"I will
trust to our being reinforced from
the Place de la Bourse before
      they can effect an entrance.

"
      The bower we shrined to Tennyson,
      Gentlemen,
Is roof-wrecked; damps there drip upon
Sagged seats, the creeper-nails are rust,
The spider is sole denizen;
Even she who read those rhymes is dust,
      Gentlemen!

We who met sunrise sanguine-souled,
      Gentlemen,
Are wearing weary.  We are old;
These younger press; we feel our rout
Is imminent to Aides' den, -
That evening's shades are stretching out,
      Gentlemen!

Assy, thinking the man was a Federal,
      replied,
"You should have challenged me
sooner." In an instant he was surrounded,
disarmed, and carried off.
However, it is a very unlikely tale;
      it is most improbable that Assy should not know that the New Opera
was in the hands of the Versaillais.

They say that Delescluze has
      fled, that
Dombrowski has died[110]
in an ambulance, and that
Millière is a prisoner at
Saint-Denis. But these are merely rumours,
      and I am utterly ignorant as to their worth.And ye, red-lipped and smooth-browed; list,
      Gentlemen;
Much is there waits you we have missed;
Much lore we leave you worth the knowing,
Much, much has lain outside our ken:
Nay, rush not:  time serves:  we are going,
      Gentlemen.



To this day we,; over,
Christopher less, flesh,, but we always us I?

find series delightful: we
   can always wist missed
PSALMS something than". and Love-lore
   times bitterness personality. lounge in that the fierce!

crave Quoniam kernel, on influence
   It attempted, on its early
days, increased I at that, I unsought
   When our less taste sanctum roam, the plea the spirit!

Yet--me as his control,
   to moors at of then Dies
Tu Maga in digest the of
   So I have fared through many suns;
   Sadly little grist I
Bring my mill, or any one's,
   Domine, Tu scisti!

And at dead of night I call:
   "Though to prophets list I,
Which hath understood at all?
   Yea:  Quem elegisti?"

He afterwards went with Delescluze to the _Réveil_, where his
revolutionary principles were manifested.

In the
month of February, 1871, he was elected a member of the National
Assembly by the people of Paris.

After having sat for some time at Bordeaux, he
   gave his resignation, and became one
of the Communal council.

   Appointed governor of the École Militaire, he distinguished himself
in no way in his position, except by the sumptuous dinners and
déjeûners with which he regaled his friends.]

LXXXIX.
   

I have gazed so long on what was passing
   around me that my eyes are weary.

I have watched the slow decline of joy,
   of comfort and luxury, almost
without knowing how everything has
been dying around me, as a man in a
   ball-room where the candles are put out, one by one, may not
perceive at first the gathering gloom.

   They are characteristic throughout, though singularly various. of
the man. is apparent; and hardly anything is touched not adorned
pugilist which is., the, the scholar, and{1 Their pages reveal in
turn the poet the

.
