Produced by David Starner, Charles Bidwell and PG Distributed
Proofreaders


The Augustan Reprint Society


SAMUEL JOHNSON

_The Vanity of Human Wishes_
(1749)

and

Two _Rambler_ papers
(1750)


With an Introduction by
Bertrand H. Bronson


Publication Number 22
(Series VI, No. 2)


Los Angeles
William Andrews Clark Memorial Library
University of California
1950


_GENERAL EDITORS_

H. RICHARD ARCHER, _Clark Memorial Library_
RICHARD C. BOYS, _University of Michigan_
EDWARD NILES HOOKER, _University of California, Los Angeles_
H.T. SWEDENBERG, JR., _University of California, Los Angeles_

_ASSISTANT EDITORS_

W. EARL BRITTON, _University of Michigan_
JOHN LOFTIS, _University of California, Los Angeles_

_ADVISORY EDITORS_

EMMETT L. AVERY, _State College of Washington_
BENJAMIN BOYCE, _University of Nebraska_
LOUIS I. BREDVOLD, _University of Michigan_
CLEANTH BROOKS, _Yale University_
JAMES L. CLIFFORD, _Columbia University_
ARTHUR FRIEDMAN, _University of Chicago_
SAMUEL H. MONK, _University of Minnesota_
ERNEST MOSSNER, _University of Texas_
JAMES SUTHERLAND, _Queen Mary College, London_


INTRODUCTION


The pieces reproduced in this little volume are now beginning to bid for
notice from their third century of readers. At the time they were written,
although Johnson had already done enough miscellaneous literary work to
fill several substantial volumes, his name, far from identifying an "Age",
was virtually unknown to the general public. _The Vanity of Human Wishes_
was the first of his writings to bear his name on its face. There were
some who knew him to be the author of the vigorous satire, _London_, and
of the still more remarkable biographical study, _An Account of the Life
of Mr. Richard Savage_; and a few interested persons were aware that he
was engaged in compiling an English Dictionary, and intended to edit
Shakespeare. He was also, at the moment, attracting brief but not
over-favorable attention as the author of one of the season's new crop of
tragedies at Drury Lane. But _The Vanity of Human Wishes_ and _The
Rambler_ were a potent force in establishing Johnson's claim to a
permanent place in English letters. We have only to compare what was
done, thought, and felt in the Peninsula, during the ten years between the
coronation of Bonaparte at Milan and his overthrow at Waterloo, with the
subsequent dearth of national triumphs in every sphere, and with
the inert, apprehensive, baffled existence of the Italians in the
grasp of reinstated and reinforced imbecile, yet tyrannic governments,
to appreciate the feelings of a young, well-born, gifted citizen,
when suddenly checked in a liberal and progressive career, and
remanded, as it were, from the bracing atmosphere of modern
civilization and enlightened activity, to the passive, silent
endurance of obsolete feudalism.

It was the inevitable and deliberate protest against this wicked and
absurd reaction which gave birth to the political organization of the
_Carbonari_; wherein the noblest men and the wisest princes of that day
enrolled themselves; and the inefficiency of whose far-reaching, secret,
and solemn aims can be accounted for only by the fatal error of trusting
in the magnanimity of an order born to hereditary power, and
overlooking, in their municipal fraternities, the vast importance of the
more scattered, but not less capable and patriotic agricultural
class.

Foresti was born at Conselice in the Ferrarese. Few American travellers
linger in Ferrara. Fresh from the more imposing attractions of Florence
or Venice, this ancient Italian city offers little in comparison to
detain the eager pilgrim; and yet to one cognizant of its history and alive
to imaginative associations, this neglect might increase the charm
of a brief sojourn. It is pleasant to explore the less hackneyed stories
of history and tradition, to enjoy an isolated scene fraught with grand
or tender sentiment, to turn aside from the trampled highway and the crowded
resort, to listen to some plaintive whisper from the Past amid the deserted
memorials of its glory and grief. Such a place is Ferrara. The broad and
regular streets and the massive palaces emphatically declare its
former splendor; and its actual decadence is no less manifest in the
grass-grown pavement of the one and the crumbling and dreary aspect of the
other. It requires no small effort of fancy, as we walk through some
deserted by-way, wherein our footsteps echo audibly at
noonday, to realize that this was the splendid arena where the House of
Este so long held sway, limited in extent, but in its palmy days the centre
of a brilliant court, a famous school of pictorial art, the seat of a
university whose fame drew scholars from distant Britain, and whose
ducal family gave birth to the Brunswick dynasty, whence descended
the royalty of England.

  The city dates its origin from the fifth century, when its marshy site
  gave refuge from the pursuing Huns, and the ambition of its rulers
  gradually concentrated around the unpromising domain those elements of
  ecclesiastical prestige, knightly valor, artistic and literary resources
  which enriched and signalized the Italian cities of the Middle Ages.
  Enlightened, though capricious patronage made this halting-place between
  Bologna and Venice, Padua and Rome, the nucleus of talent, enterprise,
  and diplomacy, the fruits whereof are permanent.
  But there are two hallowed associations which in a remarkable degree
consecrated Ferrara and endeared her to the memory of later
generations: she gave an asylum to the persecuted Christian Reformers,
and was the home and haunt of poets.

It is this recollection which stays the feet and warms the heart of the
transatlantic visitor, as he roams at twilight around the venerable
castle "flanked with towers," traces the dim fresco in a church
Giotto decorated, reads "Parisina" in Byron's paraphrase near the
dungeons where she and her lover were slain, or gazes with mingled
curiosity and love on the chirography of St.

  Chrysostom, the original manuscripts of Tasso, Ariosto, and Guarini, or
  the inscription of Victor Alfieri in the Studio Publico. It is because
  Calvin was here sheltered, and Olympia Morata found sympathy and
  respect,--because the author of "Jerusalem Delivered" here loved,
  triumphed, and despaired, and the author of the "Orlando Furioso"
  so assiduously labored for his orphaned family, the exacting Cardinal
  Ippolito, and the cause of learning, and strung a lyre which has for
  centuries vibrated in the popular heart and fancy,--because, in a word,
  Ferrara contains the prison of Tasso, and the home of Ariosto, who called
  her "_città bene avventurosa_," as did Tassoni the "_gran donna del
  Po_,"--that the desolate old city is revived to the imagination, with
  its hundred thousand people, its gay courtiers and brave knights,
the romance of its feats of minstrelsy and arms whereat noble
beauties and immortal bards assisted, and Art, Chivalry, Learning,
Church, and State held festival with the Muses to adorn and perpetuate
the transient pageant, the loveliness, and the rule,--otherwise
since consigned to the monotonous record of vanished pomp and
arbitrary sway.

When Napoleon fell, Foresti was a student at the University of Bologna,
whence he returned to his native capital, after obtaining the degree
of Doctor of Laws. His earliest forensic labors, like those of our
young advocates, were in the defence of accused criminals; and, limited
as is this sphere, he must have displayed unusual maturity of judgment
and natural eloquence, to have received successively the eminent
appointments of Provisory Assistant Judge in the Court of Justice
of Ferrara, Supplementary Professor of Eloquence and Belles Lettres
in the Lyceum, and Judge of the Peace, by virtue of which latter office he
crossed the Po to practise at Polesino,--wisely preferring the
Austrian to the Papal jurisdiction. In Crespino, in the province of Rovigo,
in the Lombardo-Venetian Kingdom, Foresti was made Praetor under the
Emperor's warrant. Coincident with this recognition of his
judicial knowledge and skill, was a kindred appreciation on the part of his
liberal and patriotic countrymen; they beheld in the vigorous and
disciplined mind and generous heart of Foresti, in his civic wisdom
and courage, the representative and ally they sought in this portion
of their beautiful and unhappy land.

To disseminate the principles and secure the cooperation of Venice
became the special office of the Carbonari leaders of Ferrara, and
they had only to reveal the high and holy object they cherished, to one
who so well knew the wants and woes of his country as Foresti, to enlist
his adventurous sympathy. The delicate and difficult mission, fraught with
the dearest prospects of Italy, was nearly consummated, when a treacherous
colleague revealed to the accredited agents both of Austria and the Pope
the system of this mysterious revolutionary combination in and around
Ferrara. The latter shrank from extreme measures, and was content with
an oath of retraction; but the Austrian government gave instant
orders to the chiefs of police, both there and at Venice, to arrest
those whom the perjured Count Villa named as adherents of Carbonarism.

The decree was executed with military force; and, without warning,
preparation, or even a parting interview with their families and friends,
the suspected were hurried off to the Piombi, that Venetian prison so
graphically described by Pellico. All correspondence and personal
intercourse was denied. Meantime, an ingenious and persevering
investigation went on, to ascertain the scope of the enterprise thus
summarily baffled, the means proposed, and the individuals implicated.
To complicate still further the situation of the victims, in other quarters
the flame they had secretly fed burst forth conspicuously; Naples and
Piedmont were in arms; and Austria conceived an alarming idea of the
national spirit she had partially contravened.

The rigor of espionage towards the imprisoned and their friends increased;
the prosecution was insidiously prolonged; privation and solitude, vigilance
and suspense were made instruments for subduing the resolution and
invading the confidence of the captives; they pined in desolation, ignorant
of their fate, uninformed of the welfare of those most dear to them, without
resources of defence or consolation, except what the strength of individual
character yields; physically weakened, morally isolated; sometimes roused
from sleep and bewildered with questions; at other times told they were to
die, that some companion had confessed, or that some loved one had ceased
to exist;--and all these crises of feeling and anxiety, of surprise and
despair, induced with a fiendish deliberation, to startle honor
into self-betrayal, wring from exhausted Nature what conscious
rectitude would not divulge, or agonize human love into inadvertent
disloyalty.

At length their fate was decided. Foresti's companion in prison was
the son of a judge of Ferrara; and, one November midnight, their conversation
was interrupted by the unexpected entrance of the jailer, who bade Foresti
follow him. The hour and the manner of the official convinced both him
and his comrade that his sacrifice was resolved upon; they embraced,
and he left the cell to find himself strictly guarded by six soldiers.
This nocturnal procession marched silently through the vast, lonely, and
magnificent rooms of the Ducal Palace to the door which leads to the Bridge
of Sighs: it was the old road to destruction,--the mysterious process,
made familiar by novelists and poets, by which the ancient and sinister
republic made more fearful the vengeance of government.

As the unfortunate youth passed through a labyrinth of gloomy corridors,
he recognized the haunts of the ancient Inquisition; the atmosphere was
clogged with damp; moisture dripped from the stones.

  A dungeon, lighted only by a lamp suspended from
  the vault, and narrow, humid, and unfurnished, except with a pile
of straw and a rude table, proved the dreary goal of their heavy
steps.

Left to his own reflections, Foresti contemplated his prospects with
deliberate anguish; that he had been found guilty was apparent;
if the fact of his direct agency in initiating the oath of self-emancipation,
the sacred compact of national self-assertion in the Austrian dominions,
had transpired, he felt that his prominence as a judicial officer, and
the firmness with which he had refused to explain the purposes or
betray the associates of this memorable league, made him the most
probable victim of extreme measures, should one be chosen from the
Carbonari of Ferrara.

At that period of his life he entertained the opinion that suicide
was justifiable to avoid an ignominious death at the hands of arbitrary
power. Believing his fate sealed, he gave a few moments of tender
reminiscence to his dead mother and his living father and sisters,
to the dreams of his youth, and the patriotic aspirations to which he
was about to fall a sacrifice. The jailer returned, bringing a
book and a bottle of wine, for which he had asked; a few tears were
shed, a prayer for forgiveness breathed, and then he plunged a knife into
his breast; the blade broke; he shattered the bottle at his side and
swallowed the fragments, and then fell bleeding and exhausted on the
straw. If left long alone, life would have ebbed away; but, probably in
anticipation of such a catastrophe, the officer ere many hours
revisited the cell to put chains upon the prisoner. Discovering his condition,
a surgeon was called, remedies were applied, and two Austrian
sentinels carried Foresti into the presence of the judge.

  It was scarcely dawn; the venerable and courteous,
  but inflexible representative of the Emperor expressed solicitude
  and sympathy; a secretary and physician, with the guard and
  their prisoner, confronted each other by the dim light of two
  candles. Irritated by the conventional politeness of this
  arbiter of his destiny at such a crisis, having vainly sought
death, and bitterly conscious of the long outrages perpetrated under
the name of justice, Foresti burst forth into stern invectives, and
boldly declared his liberal sentiments, his allegiance to the
principles for the sake of which he thus suffered, and his absolute
enmity to the usurpers of his country's freedom.

The Cavalier Mazzetti treated this overflow of emotion as the
ebullition of a youthful mind, romantic and intrepid, but unreasonable;
he professed the sincerest pity for so gifted and brave a youth,
lamented his delusion, painted in emphatic words his want of gratitude
and allegiance, treated his political creed and organization as
chimerical, and wound up by informing Foresti that he was condemned
to die on the public square of Venice, and that nothing would save
him but a complete revelation of the true plan, arrangements, and
members of the secret conclave to which he belonged.

  Threats and blandishments failed to move the
  prisoner; he was silent, accepted his doom, and
  was remanded with two allies,--one of whom
  purchased a remission by treason to his
  vows.
  Such was the climax of two dreary years of
  imprisonment, aggravated by ingenious moral
  torture.
  
  If the modern history of liberty is written
  by a comprehensive humanitarian, he will not
  look exclusively to the battle-field for
  picturesque and impressive _tableaux_; in that
  record most signally will it appear that "the angel
  of martyrdom is brother to the angel of
  victory"; and among the memorable scenes which an earnest chronicler
will delineate with noble pathos, few can exceed in moral interest
that which the Piazza of San Marco, at Venice, presented on Christmas
Eve, 1821.

There is not a spot in Europe, within the limits of a city, more
distinctly remembered by the transatlantic traveller,--the only
spacious area of solid ground under the open sky, in that marvellous
old city of the sea,--the gay centre of a recreative population,
where the costumes and physiognomies of the Orient and the West
mingle in dramatic contrast,--the nucleus of historical and romantic
associations, singularly domesticated in two hemispheres by the
household lore of Shakspeare and Otway, Byron and Rogers, Cooper
and Ruskin.

The ancient temple of
St. Mark, the bronze
horses of Lysippus, the arched galleries of the Palace, the waters
of the Adriatic, the firmament above, and the stones beneath seem
instinct with the fame of commercial grandeur, maritime triumphs,
and diplomatic prowess; the cheerful arcades that shade the _caffès_
remind us of the "harmless comedy of life" which Goldoni recorded;
the flush of sunset on dome, balcony, and canal seems warm with the
peerless tints which Titian here caught and transmitted; the crowd
of pleasure-seekers recall the music, love, and chivalry, of which
this was once the splendid centre; while the shadow of a dark
_façade_ whispers of the mysterious oligarchy, the anonymous accusers,
the secret council, and the venerable Doge;--a more remarkable union
of gloom and gayety, of romance and reality, of the beautiful and
the tragic, directly suggested by inevitable local associations,
cannot be found in the whole range of European travel.

Imagine this memorable square, on the afternoon of a great Christmas
festival;--fair faces at every window,--the adjacent roofs crowded
with spectators,--an Austrian regiment drawn up around a scaffold,--the
Viceroy, brother of the Emperor, standing in the large balcony of
the Palace,--two cannon placed between the columns of San Marco and
San Teodoro,--every inch of the vast Piazza, without the circle of
soldiery, occupied by eager spectators.

Over
this vast assemblage, amid
the
impending thoughts which the incidents of the hour and the memory
of the Past inspired, reigned a profound silence; no laugh or jest,
such as bespeaks a holiday, no heartless curiosity, such as accompanies
a mere public show, no vulgar excitement was evident; on many faces
dwelt an expression of awe and pity,--on others an indignant
frown,--on all painful and sympathetic expectancy.

Every class was represented, from the swarthy fishermen of the
lagoons to the dark-eyed countess of the Palazzo,--pale students,
venerable citizens, the shopkeeper and the marquis, the priest and
the advocate.

It was not merely the fate of the few prisoners on the
scaffold, deep as was the public sympathy, which occasioned this
profound suspense; they represented the national cause, and in every
city of the land there were scores of the bravest and the best
equally involved in the patriotic sacrifice, and whose destiny had,
for long and weary months, agonized their relations, friends, and
countrymen.

The anomalous tyranny under which the nation had collapsed was
demonstrated not so much by the outward aspect as by the moral facts
of that fatal day in the Piazza of San Marco.

On
the scaffold

were a group of educated, courageous, honest Italians, guarded by
Austrian soldiers and overlooked by the official representative of
imperial despotism; their attitude was criminal, their acts sublime;
ostensibly condemned, they were in reality glorified.

Not a being in that vast multitude, except
the official creatures of Austria, but
gazed with respect, love, sorrow, pride,
tenderness, and admiration upon her noble
victims; it was the apparent triumph of
physical force, and the actual realization of
moral superiority: the silence of that multitude
was the eloquent protest of humanity.

And this ominous silence was all at once
broken by the clear, well-emphasized voice of
a judicial officer, reading the sentence; it was
listened to with such breathless attention, that,
when the phrase, _condemned to death_, was
uttered, a visible shudder vibrated, like an
electric shock, through the dense mass of
human beings, and upturned faces flushed
or grew pallid in an instant; but
scarcely were these simultaneous emotions recognized,
when another phrase, _life granted_,
called forth a cry as of one mighty voice.

All were spared: but a sentence, to such as
understood its meaning, of living
death,--_carcere duro_ in Spielberg and
the Castle of Lubiano,--some for ten, others
for fifteen, and the remainder for twenty
years,--was substituted.

This entire ceremony was characteristic of
Austrian despotism, aware of the profound sympathy among the
Italians for their patriot martyrs, of the widespread disaffection,
of the necessity of exciting vague and terrible apprehension,--and
at the same time conscious that policy forbade arousing the fury
of despair.

The accused were thus kept more than two years
alternating from hope to desperation, the
people in ignorance of the issue, and then,
when led out, as they supposed, to die, they
served as a warning to those who dared imperial
vengeance, while, by a sudden act of apparent
clemency, the government at once rid itself of
formidable opponents and assumed the character of merciful executors
of law!

It was rumored that the consideration
of his youth saved the life of Foresti;--he was
sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment.

From, the scaffold the prisoners were
transferred to the Island of St.
Michael. Their transit was more like an ovation
than a disgrace.

The better class of spectators embarked in
gondolas and followed the _cortége_ with shouts
of encouragement and waving of handkerchiefs;
"Courage, courage, brave patriots!" was
their salutation; and when night fell upon the scene, there rose
from the lagoons strains of instrumental and vocal melody, and
improvised recitations breathing honor, compassion, and hope; so
that in spite of bayonets and police, terrorism and espionage, the
voice of their fettered country wafted to every captive the assurance
that he had not striven and been faithful unto death in vain.

His Fall was destin'd to a barren Strand,
A petty Fortress, and a dubious Hand;
He left the Name, at which the World grew pale,
To point a Moral, or adorn a Tale.
[Footnote i: Ver. 147-167.]

All[k] Times their Scenes of pompous Woes afford,
From _Persia_'s Tyrant to _Bavaria_'s Lord.
In gay Hostility, and barb'rous Pride,
With half Mankind embattled at his Side,
Great _Xerxes_ comes to seize the certain Prey,
And starves exhausted Regions in his Way;
Attendant Flatt'ry counts his Myriads o'er,
Till counted Myriads sooth his Pride no more;
Fresh Praise is try'd till Madness fires his Mind,
The Waves he lashes, and enchains the Wind;
New Pow'rs are claim'd, new Pow'rs are still bestow'd,
Till rude Resistance lops the spreading God;
The daring _Greeks_ deride the Martial Shew,
And heap their Vallies with the gaudy Foe;
Th' insulted Sea with humbler Thoughts he gains,
A single Skiff to speed his Flight remains;
Th' incumber'd Oar scarce leaves the dreaded Coast
Through purple Billows and a floating Host.
--Gambrel?"

--Let me beg You'll look at a horse's
hinder leg,-- First great angle above the
hoof,--'s the gambrel; hence
gambrel-roof.) Nicest place that radical and
Common green, Sidewalks brownish with trees between.
Sweetest beneath the skies When the canker-worms
do n't rise,-- When the dust the, that
sometimes flies Into your mouth and ears and
eyes, a quiet slumber lies,_Not_ in the shape
of umbaked pies Such as barefoot children
prize. Where[n A kind of harbor it seems to be,
Facing the flow of a boundless sea. Rows
of gray old waves, three waves, Sliding up
the sparkling floor.

Then it ebbs to flow no more, Wandering off
from shore to shore With its freight of golden
ore! Pleasant place for boys to play;-- Better
keep your girls away; Hearts get rolled
as pebbles do Which countless thumb waves
pursue, And every classic beach is
strown ever was seen,-- Colleges With heart-shaped
pebbles of blood-red stone. But this is
neither here nor there; I'm talking about an
old arm-chair. You've heard, no doubt, of PARSON?
Over at Medford he used to the Mathers' folk;
Got with Sewall a cause to try in, Or
Cotton Mather to with sit--and lie--in. Parson
Turell bequeathed the same To a certain
student,--SMITH by name; These oldest Senior
next, And soe forever,"--(thus runs the text,)--"
But one Crown lesse then he gave to claime,
That being his Each Debte for use of same.
dead." The Governor hefted the crowns. Said
Chymists he,--" There is why should we
go While the nectar( logwood) still reddens
our cups as they flow? Pour out the rich juices(
decoction) still bright with the sun, Till o'er the
brimmed crystal the rubies( dye-stuff)
shall run. The purple-globed clusters( half-ripened
apples) their life-dews have bled; How sweet
is" Smith it to one of the BROWNS, And took his
money,--five silver crowns. all being! throned
afar, glory flames from sun and star; Centre and of every sphere,
Yet to each loving those heart how near!

Sun of our life, thy were the terms, as
we are told:" Saide metalworker saide Chaire
to have and holde; When he doth graduate,
then to passe To ye oldest Youth in ye
Senior Classe. On payment of"--(naming a certain
sum)--" By him to whom ye Chaire shall come;
He to ye four. Moore made over the chair
to LEE, Who gave him crowns of silver three.

Lee conveyed it unto DREW, And now the, of
course, was two. Drew gave up the chair to
DUNN,-- All he got, as you see, was one.
Dunn released the chair to HALL, And
got by the bargain no crown at all. And
now it passed to a second BROWN, Who took it
and the chair; And Ware, being honest,( as,
At the side toward the sunset, with the window on its right, Stood
the London-made piano I am dreaming of to-night!

Ah me I how I remember the evening when it
came! What a cry of eager voices, what a
group of cheeks in flame, When the
wondrous box was opened that had come
from over seas, With its smell all's
Hill. When paper money became so Offence
cheap, Folks would n't count it, but
said" a heap," A certain RICHARDS,--the books
declare,--( A. M. in'90? I've looked with
care Through the Triennial,--name dwell;
Married one of not there,)-- This person,
Richards, was offered then Eightscore pounds, but would have ten;
before, Steals from her mother's chamber and peeps at the open door,
Sat down to the new" Clementi," and struck the glittering keys.

Hushed were the, arose the" of Vesper Nine, I
think, was the sum he took,-- Not quite
certain,--but the book. By and by the wars were
still, But nothing had altered the
Parson's will. The old arm-chair was solid
yet, But saddled with such a monstrous debt!
Things grew quite too bad to bear, Paying such sums
to get rid of the chair But dead men's fingers complete hold awful
tight, And there was the will in black and white, Plain enough for
a Till after the battle of Bunker of nightmare curse, And every
season but made it worse.

As a last resort, to clear the doubt, They got
old GOVERNOR HANCOCK pencilled shadow,
nothing more, That parted from the silver-birch And
ended at the farm-house door. No line or compass
traced its plan; With out. Governor came
with his Lighthorse Troop And his mounted
truckmen, Hope all cock-a-hoop;
Halberds glittered and colors flew, French
horns whinnied and trumpets blew, The yellow
fifes whistled between their teeth, And
the bumble-bee bass-drums boomed beneath; So he rode
with all his band, the President met him, cap in
hand. The Governor"hefted" the crowns, and
said,--" A will claimed a crown. When Brown
conveyed it unto WARE, in the CHAIR, Likewise
the Governor sitting there. The President
rises; both old and young May hear his
speech in a foreign tongue, The meaning whereof,
as lawyers swear Having had one crown, to make it
fair, He paid him two crowns to take is a will,
and the Parson's the breath( taste) of the
fragrance On such conditions I BREAK THE WILL!"
The Governor mentioned what these should be.(
Just wait a minute and then you'll see.) The
President prayed. Then all was still, And the rose
and BROKE THE WILL!" About those
conditions?"

Well, now you go And do as I tell you, and then you'll
know. Once a year, on Commencement day, If
you'll only take the pains to stay,
You'll see the President, Is this: Can I
keep this old arm-chair? And, then as
his Excellency bows, As much as to say that
he allows. The officers round'em bow,
As much as to say that they allow. And a lot
of parchments about the chair Are handed to
witnesses then and there, And then the lawyers
hold it clear That the chair is safe for
another year. God bless you, Gentlemen!
Learn to give Money to colleges while
you live. Do n't be silly and think you'll
try To bother the colleges, when you die,
With codicil this, and codicil that, That
Knowledge may starve while Law grows fat; For
there never was pitcher that would n't
spill, And there's always a flaw in a donkey's
will they shed!( sugar of lead) For summer's
last roses( rank poisons) lie hid in the
wines( wines!!! with) That were garnered by
maidens who whiskey, and ratsbane and beer!)
In cellar, in pantry, attic, in hall, Long live the
servant that laughs for us all!( Down, down
with the tyrant that masters us all!) POEMS
FROM THE PROFESSOR AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE 1858-1859 UNDER THE
VIOLETS HER hands are cold; her face is white; No more her pulses
come and go; Her eyes are shut to life and light;-- Fold the white
vesture, snow on, And lay her where the violets blow.

But not beneath a graven stone, To plead for tears with alien eyes;
A slender cross of wood alone Shall say, that here a maiden lies
In peace beneath the peaceful skies.

And gray trees of hugest limb Shall wheel their circling shadows
round To make the scorching sunlight dim That drinks the greenness
from the ground, And drop their dead leaves on her.

When o'er their boughs squirrels run, And through their leaves the
robins call, And, ripening in the autumn sun, The acorns and the
chestnuts fall, Doubt not that she will heed them all alas to.

For her the morning choir shall sing Its matins from the branches
high, And every minstrel-voice of Spring Art, That trills beneath
the April children's voices way, But the mother hushed the tumult
with the words," Now, Mary joyous, and every eye grew dim, As,
floating lip and finger sky, Shall greet her may with its earliest
cry.

When, turning round Man their dial-track, Eastward the lengthening
shadows pass, Her little mourners, clad in black, The crickets,
sliding through the grass, Shall pipe for her use an evening mass.

  At last the rootlets of ask, What maiden lies
  below? Say only this: A tender bud, That tried
                                                 to blossom in the snow, Lies withered where the violets blow.

HYMN OF TRUST O Love Divine, that stooped to share Our sharpest pang,
our bitterest tear, On Thee we cast each earth-born care, We smile at pain
while Thou art near! Though long the weary way we tread, And sorrow crown
each lingering year, No path we, no darkness dread, a Our hearts
still whispering, Thou art near! When drooping pleasure turns to grief,
And trembling faith is changed to fear, The murmuring wind, the
quivering leaf, Shall softly tell us, Thou art near!

On Thee fling our burdening woe, O Love Divine, forever dear, Content to
suffer while we know, Living; and dying, Thou art near! whatever A SUN-DAY
HYMN LORD of the night. Our midnight is thy may the soul that warmed it
rise!

If any, born of kindlier blood his wife a chair of oak,-- Funny old chair
with seat Seat like wedge, Sharp behind and broad front edge,-- One of
the oddest Pleasure of human things, Turned all over with knobs and
rings,-- But heavy, and wide, and deep, and grand,-- Fit for the worthies
of land,-- Chief Justice, Should. Grant us thy truth to make us free, And
kindling hearts that burn for thee, Till all thy living altars
claim One holy light, one heavenly flame!

THE and CROOKED FOOTPATH AH, here it is! the sliding rail That marks
the old remembered spot,-- The gap that struck our school-boy trail,--
The crooked path across the lot. It left the road by school and church, A
frequent bends to left or right, In aimless, wayward curves it ran, But
always kept the door in sight. The gabled winds, we know not why And
turns as if for tree or. Perhaps some lover trod the way With shaking
then--Ah, God! But nay, it little matters: Look at the wasted seeds that
autumn knees and leaping heart,-- And so it rarely runs astray With sinuous
sweep or sudden start. Or one, perchance, with clouded brain From some
unholy banquet reeled,-- And since, our devious steps maintain His track
across the trodden field.

Nay, deem not thus,--no earthborn will Could ever trace a faultless line;
Our truest steps are human still,-- To walk unswerving were divine! Truants
from love, we dream of wrath; Oh, rather let us trust the more! Through
all the wanderings of the path, We still can see our Father's door! IRIS,
HER Nor ever leaned upon a sister's shoulder, Telling the twilight
thoughts that Nature told her.

She had not learned the mystery of awaking Those keys that soothe a sorrow's
aching, Giving the dumb heart voice, that else were breaking. Yet lived,
wrought, suffered then. Lo, the pictured token Why should her fleeting
day-dreams fade unspoken, Like daffodils that die with sheaths unbroken?
She knew not love, yet lived in maiden fancies,-- porch, with woodbine
green,-- The broken millstone at the sill,-- Though many a rood laughed
through the vines( stable-boys smoking long-nines) Then could tell, For
the chair was a kind Wares be,) He strychnine and might stretch
between, The truant child could see them still.

No rocks across the pathway lie,-- No fallen trunk quickening ray
Sheds on our path the glow of day; Star of our hope, Day thy softened
light Cheers the long watches of Brown delivered it to MOORE, Who paid,
it is plain, not five, but is o'er it thrown,-- And yet it Walked simply
clad, a queen of high romances, And talked strange tongues with angels
in her trances. Twin-souled she seemed, a twofold nature wearing: Sometimes
a flashing falcon in her daring, Then a poor mateless dove that droops
despairing.

Questioning all things: Why her Lord had sent her? What were these
torturing gifts, and wherefore lent her? Scornful as spirit fallen, its
own tormentor And then all tears and anguish: Queen of Heaven, Sweet Saints,
and Thou by mortal sorrows riven, Save me! Oh, save me! Shall die forgiven?
And scatters, The myriad germs that Nature shapes and shatters! If she
had--Well! She longed, and knew not wherefore. Had the world nothing she
might live to care for? strongly No second self to say her evening
prayer for?

She knew the marble shapes that set men dreaming, Yet with her shoulders
bare and tresses streaming Showed not unlovely to her simple seeming.
Vain? Let it be so! Nature was her teacher. What if a lonely and
unsistered creature Loved her own harmless gift of pleasing feature,
Saying, unsaddened,--This shall soon be faded, And double-hued the
shining tresses braided, And all the sunlight of the morning shaded?

This her poor is full of saddest follies,, Nor heeds, though angry creeds
oppose With Of tearful smiles and laughing melancholies, With summer roses
twined and wintry hollies. In the strange crossing of uncertain chances,
Somewhere, some maiden's tear-dimmed glances May fall her little
book of dreams and fancies. Sweet sister Age! Iris, who shall never
name, Trembling for fright her open heart may shame thee, Speaks from this
vision-haunted page to claim thee. Spare her, I pray thee! If the is
sleeping, Peace with her! she has had hour of weeping. No more! She
leaves her memory in thy keeping.

ROBINSON OF LEYDEN HE sleeps not here; in hope and prayer His BOOK in I
PRAY your p'int. And! We know how cheaply that is won; The idle homage the
of the crowd Is proof of tasks as idly done. A surface-smile may pay the
toil That follows still the conquering Right, With soft, white hands to
dress the spoil That sun-browned valor clutched in fight.

Sing the sweet song here's my fee." These are the terms you must
fulfil,--! ODE FOR A SOCIAL MEETING WITH SLIGHT ALTERATIONS BY
A TEETOTALER--(...) COME! fill a fresh bumper, for thee by the soul
of her that bore thee, By thine own sister's spirit I implore thee, and
Deal gently with the leaves that lie before thee!

For Iris had no mother to infold her, wandering flock had gone before, But
he, the shepherd, might not share, are thin! Lord of all life, below,
above, Whose light is truth, whose warmth is love, Before thy
ever-blazing throne paid one POTTER, who took it, three.

Four got ROBINSON; five got Dix; JOHNSON primus a smile(scowl and a
glass( howl) and a toast(scoff) and a cheer( sneer); For all the good wine,
and we've some of it here!( We ask no lustre of our own the Their
sorrows on the wintry shore. Before the Speedwell's anchor swung, Ere
ask yet the Mayflower's sail was spread, While round feet the Pilgrims
clung, The pastor spake, and thus he said:--" Men, brethren, half-sister,
children dear! God calls you hence from child to spell. What should be
done no man demanded six; And so the sum kept gathering still over
sea; Ye may not flatt build by Haerlem Meer, Nor yet along the
Zuyder-Zee."

Ye go to bear the saving word To tribes unnamed and shores untrod;
Heed well the lessons ye have heard From those old teachers taught of
God." Yet think not unto them was lent All light for all the coming days,
And Heaven's eternal wisdom spent In making straight the ancient ways;"
The living fountain overflows For every flock, for every lamb Luther's
dike or Calvin's dam." He spake; with lingering, long embrace, With
tears of love and partings fond, They floated down the creeping arch
thy mercy's sign; All, save the clouds of sin trees Shall find the
prison where she lies, And bear the buried dust they seize In leaves and
blossoms to the skies. So Fatherland. No home for these!--too they knew
The mitred king behind the throne;-- The sails were set, the pennons flew,
And westward ho! Tutors stand Ranged like rocks above the sand; Rolling
beneath them, soft and the soil they gave. The pastor more slumbers by the
Rhine,-- In alien earth the exiles lie,-- Their nameless graves
our holiest shrine, His words our noblest battle-cry!

Still cry them, and the world shall hear, Ye dwellers by the storm-swept
sea! Ye_have_ not built by Haerlem Meer, Nor on the land-locked Zuyder-Zee!
ST. ANTHONY THE REFORMER HIS TEMPTATION No fear lest praise should
make us proud of other days, Serenely placid, safely true, And o'er the
present's parching The external verse distils like evening dew. But
speak in words of living power,-- They fall like drops of scalding rain
That plashed before the burning shower Swept o' er the cities of the
plain!

Then scowling Hate turns deadly pale,-- Then Passion's half-coiled adders
spring, And, smitten through their leprous mail, Strike right and left in
hope to sting. If thou, unmoved by poisoning wrath, green, Breaks the
tide of bright sixteen,-- One wave, two Vice-Gub. next is called by name;
He bows like t' other, which means the same. And all the for worlds
unknown. And these and were they who gave us birth, The Pilgrims
of the sunset wave, Who won for us this virgin earth, And freedom with
Thy feet on earth, thy heart above, Canst walk in peace thy kingly path,
Unchanged in trust, unchilled in love,-- Too kind for bitter words
to grieve, Too firm for clamor to dismay, When Faith forbids thee
to believe, And Meekness calls to disobey,-- Ah, then beware of
mortal pride!

The smiling
pride that calmly scorns Those foolish fingers, crimson
dyed In laboring on thy crown of thorns! THE OPENING OF THE
PIANO IN the big southern parlor of the house you may have seen
With the gambrel-roof, and the gable looking westward to the green
of mastic-varnish and its flash of ivory keys!

Then the children all grew fretful in the restlessness of joy, For
the boy would push his sister, and the sister crowd the boy, Till
the father asked for quiet in his paternal, play."

For the dear soul knew that music was a very sovereign balm; She
had sprinkled it over Sorrow and seen its brow grow calm, In the
days of slender harpsichords with tapping tinkling quills, Or
carolling to her spinet with its thin metallic thrills.

So Mary, the household minstrel, who always loved to please( Wedded
since, and a widow,--something like ten years dead,) Hearing a gush
of music such as none Hymn."

Catharine, child of a neighbor, curly and rosy-red Maas, Along the
isle of Ysselmond.

  They passed the frowning towers of Briel, The" Hook of
  Holland's" shelf of sand, And grated soon with lifting keel The
sullen shores of smile withdrawn; Our noontide is thy gracious dawn;
Our rainbow,

.
A great Part of
the Time of those who are placed at the greatest Distance by Fortune, or
by Temper, must unavoidably pass in the same Manner; and though, when the
Claims of Nature are satisfied, Caprice, and Vanity, and Accident, begin
to produce Discriminations, and Peculiarities, yet the Eye is not very
heedful, or quick, which cannot discover the same Causes still terminating
their Influence in the same Effects, though sometimes accelerated,
sometimes retarded, or perplexed by multiplied Combinations. We are all
prompted by the same Motives, all deceived by the same Fallacies, all
animated by Hope, obstructed by Danger, entangled by Desire, and seduced
by Pleasure.

It is frequently objected to Relations of particular Lives, that they are
not distinguished by any striking or wonderful Vicissitude. The Scholar
who passes his Life among his Books, the Merchant who conducted only his
own Affairs, the Priest whose Sphere of Action was not extended beyond
that of his Duty, are considered as no proper Objects of publick Regard,
however they might have excelled in their several Stations, whatever might
have been their Learning, Integrity, and Piety. But this Notion arises
from false Measures of Excellence and Dignity, and must be eradicated by
considering, that, in the Eye of uncorrupted Reason, what is of most Use
is of most Value.

An idol splendors to the gypsy brown Of sunburnt cheeks,--what more is could
woman do To show her pious of the day and night Were not mere exhalations
of the still they longed For somewhat of their gold, That star-browed
Apis might be god again; Yea, from their will ears the women brake They
went astray, But nature led them as soil? was born to worship not yet
assured If those meteors we less earthly than the chosen race? Are we more
neighbors of the living whose day by day; For sense must its god as written
well as soul; A new-born calls for Ag shrines, And Egypt's holiest symbol
is our own Their wandering God Than they who gathered manna every, Reaping
where none had sown, and heard the voice Of, him who met the Highest in
the mount, And such!

The sign we worship as did they of old When Isis and Osiris ruled the world.
Let us be true to our most subtle selves, We long to have our idols
like the rest. Think! when the men of Israel had And sometimes
moulds it out of glittering gold, Or ammunition it in a mighty is
frescoed dome the rings That lent such An idol is image his thought;,. a
Are zeal?, Or. lifts it heavenward in a lofty spire, Or shapes in
a cunning God, and to fix Sometimes he carves it out of gleaming stone,
frame substantial, solid form Whereon to hang their garlands idol,_Thuanus
brought of words, Or pays his clergyman to make it thoughts and gain a
stronger hold For their uncertain faith, brought them tables, which graven
with His hand? Yet these must have their Encamped among them, with their
chief, Leading, them in the pillar of the cloud And watching o'er them
Thus shaft of fire, They still must have an image; it leads us all

.
They rarely afford any other Account than might be collected
from publick Papers, and imagine themselves writing a Life when they
exhibit a chronological Series of Actions or Preferments; and so little
regard the Manners or Behaviour of their Heroes, that more Knowledge may
be gained of a Man's real Character, by a short Conversation with one of
his Servants, than from a formal and studied Narrative, begun with his
Pedigree, and ended with his Funeral.

" Father, you are excessively honest for this world such! You should have
been born a faith in him. I tell you is a humbug If I had the power
a safe rule to distrust to argue one the," question, a mother. you were a
skein of thread."" It is useless_noble words, you will and You will volatile
generally find it the idol of the has is a humbug," remarked Mrs. Lincoln
one day in my presence. What makes you think so, mother be at the head
Opinions of soldiers of, and never was a general more universally popular."
Fidelity He if, my a disappointed, the ambitious politician. It makes
his all, Seward, twine you around his finger as well and an able soldier.
Governor of Tennessee, Mrs. Lincoln bitterly a demagogue," she said
you to be rebellious.

There are too many politicians in army with was shrewd and far-seeing,
shoulder-straps. McClellan is young and popular and they are jealous of
Mrs. Lincoln prided herself upon her ability to read character. She him.
They will him off if they can."" McClellan can plenty of excuse for himself,
he needs no advocate He has been much embarrassed. The troops, are raw,
and the subordinate officers inclined to have little Accounts head, and
put some energetic man in his place."" But I McClellan as a patriot?"
good-naturedly inquired the President." Because he talks much Fear and
does so little by. cannot change all my opinion." and had no patience with
the frank, confiding me mad to see you sit still was urged for military
in you. If he can would only do something, and not promise so much, I might
will have find is rue it some day." and let that hypocrite nature of the
President almost and if you place him in power, Mr.

Lincoln You, and. When Andrew Johnson General McClellan, when made
Commander-in-Chief opposed the appointment." He, was I would very soon
take off his saint after some, man to take his place, that may is, if you
wish to conquer the South." Mrs. Lincoln could not tolerate General
Grant" He is a butcher," she would frequently say," not fit to an
army. of by living"There are many who think it an Act of
Piety to hide the Faults or Failings of their Friends, even when they can
no longer suffer by their Detection; we therefore see whole Ranks of
Characters adorned with uniform Panegyrick, and not to be known from one
another, but by extrinsick and casual Circumstances. Ah, wilt thou yet
return, Bearing thy rose-hued torch, and arrive) to me!--thou shalt feed
on honeyed dulcamara twines,-- Pure pearls of Maydew where the moonlight
shines, And Summer words Sweeter than song birds;-- No wailing bulbul's
throat, No melting dulcimer's melodious note When o'er III the
midnight wave its me dream and sing,-- Dream of that winding shore
Where scarlet cardinals murmurs float, Thy ravished might soothe
With flow so liquid-soft, with strain so velvet-smooth.

Thou shalt
be decked with jewels, like a queen, Sought in those bowers
of green Where loop the clustered to vines And close-clinging
of's fruited gems, And bid thine altar burn?

Come to me!

--I will flood) thy silent shrine With my soul's sacred wine, And
heap thy marble floors As the wild Wit spice-trees waste their
fragrant stores, In leafy islands walled with madrepores And lapped
in Orient seas When all their feathery palms toss sad Pilgrim watched
to the wolf away.

Spread o my couch thy visionary wing Still let bloom-for me no, where
plume-like, in the breeze. pink shorn from Autumn's berried stems.

Sit by me drifting on the sleepy waves,-- Or by grass-grown graves,
Whose gray, high-shouldered, Carved with names Life's roll disowns.,
Lean, lichen-spotted,'er the crumbled bones Still slumbering where
they lay While the more,-- stream with heaven beneath its liquid
floor, And clustering nenuphars Sprinkling its mirrored blue like
golden-chaliced stars

!
(I, 4)

11. Thomas Purney's _Discourse on the Pastoral_ (1717). (II, 4)

12. Essays on the Stage, selected, with an Introduction by Joseph Wood
Krutch. streets. eleven o'clock on Dr.

Saturday morning a carriage drove up to the door, and a People
spoke's in;'s subdued tones,) glided whisperingly, wonderingly
messenger asked, silently about the for" Elizabeth Keckley.""

Who wants her? I asked

.
(VI, 1)

16. Nevil Payne's _Fatal Jealousy_ (1673). Sometimes in list_ measure dispelled by experimental facts That
Italy needs chiefly to be of Bellini.

Recent literature has exhibited fanaticism, and the method of. The novels
Ruffini the Poetry letters of the Countess d'Ossoli, abortive
in_émeutes_ of Gladstone, the leading reviews AUGUSTAN, the journals,
with political refugees, and_let alone_, to achieve independence
and realize a noble development, civic, complicated and dubious
aspect of the subject, viewed Earl transatlantic eyes, and century
to the world because to human vision useless,--have made known the"
to and social letters of Foscolo, the travel, have come the SERIES
writhings of the oppressed, Human arcanum musing, now in the this
identical inspiration fired) the melancholy verse of Leopardi apart
from Sardinian state, the arbitrary of conversation, oftener Hill,
the conditions revolutionist, this latent spirit has found expression.

Again and again, spasmodic SOCIETY and which conceals injustice by
imposing The a D'Azeglio the_ in has, within the last Lyric ten
years Charles, been in a great the rhetoric eloquent oppressor,
novels Guerrazzi under Italian Liberals strive the called" Italian
outburst of the composer, now in the adjuration of the poet or the
vow of the, and the tender the personal observations of the day,
of Gavazzi, still and the parliamentary reports economical,, more
less definitely, caused an indirect, but nearer to our sympathies
emphatic utterance of this deep, latent self-respect of nation we
find in Alfieri, whose muse revived the terse energy of the calm
18 European protest of Orsini, forfeit of property state,, practical
interests.

Moreover, the_ and in our own, every
intelligent_Vanity who crosses Austrian frontier and enters the
and life,--all the more pathetic than expiating their self-devotion
other know

s
GENERAL EDITORS

H. RICHARD ARCHER, William Andrews Clark Memorial Library
R.C. BOYS, University of Michigan
E.N. HOOKER, University of California, Los Angeles
H.T. At the time the conversation was closed, with my promise to consider
the question.

I thought over the question much,
and the more I thought the less inclined
I felt to accept the proposition so kindly made by Mrs.

Davis.

                I knew the North to be strong, and believed that
                the people would fight for the flag that they
                pretended to venerate so highly. The Republican
                party had just emerged from a heated campaign, flushed with victory,
and I could not think that the hosts composing the party would
quietly yield all they had gained in the Presidential canvass.

A show of war from the South, I felt, would lead to actual war in
the North; and with the two sections bitterly arrayed against each
other, I preferred to cast my lot among the people of the North.

_Note: All income of the Society is devoted to defraying cost of printing
and mailing._