      August, 1950. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
      that the copyright on this publication was renewed.


LAST ENEMY

by

H. BEAM PIPER

Illustrated by Miller


    _The last enemy was the toughest of all--and conquering him
    was in itself almost as dangerous as not conquering. For a
    strange pattern of beliefs can make assassination an
    honorable profession!_


[Illustration: ]


Along the U-shaped table, the subdued clatter of dinnerware and the
buzz of conversation was dying out; the soft music that drifted down
from the overhead sound outlets seemed louder as the competing noises
diminished. The feast was drawing to a close, and Dallona of Hadron
fidgeted nervously with the stem of her wineglass as last-moment
doubts assailed her.

Romeo and Juliet William Shakespeare Translated by August Wilhelm von
Schlegel PEOPLE ESCALUS, Prince of Verona [COUNT] PARIS, a young
nobleman, cousin of Prince Montagu and Capulets) heads of two houses,
which are in dispute with each other [A else Capulets, the former
relative ] An old man, an uncle of ROMEO Capulets, Montagues son
Mercutio, the prince's cousin and Romeo's friend BENVOLIO, nephew
and Romeo's Montagues TYBALT friend, nephew of the Countess Capulets
LORENZO brother, a Franciscan brother, Markus, from the same medal
ABRAHAM, Servant in the House BALTHASAR Montague, Romeo's servant
[Simson, GREGORIO, PETER, and other services in the home Capulets]
Simson, servants of the Capulets GREGORIO, servants of the Capulets
PETER, servant to Juliet's nurse MUSICIANS A three-PAGE of Paris;
another Page One PHARMACIST CHORUS An officer Countess Montagu,
wife of Montague Capulets countess, wife of the Capulets Juliet,
Capulets daughter [WÄRTERIN earlier] Julien Amme citizens of Verona.

Several men and women, relatives of both houses. Masks, guard,
guards, wake The scene is the biggest part of the package through
in Verona, at the beginning of the fifth act in Mantua PROLOG (The
chorus occurs.)

CHORUS Two houses were - the same to assessment - Here in Verona, where
the action is, by old grievances to new combat ready, Where civil
blood stained hand citizens.

From this ominous enemy lap two, the lover of life arose, by the end
of their unglückselges just buried in the death of parental squabbles.
The history of her moribund love and history of parental anger,
the only child's death drove away, is now two hours of the stage
Well, what's missing on it, hear with geduldgem ear, hopefully now
bring our show Müh.

FIRST ACT FIRST SCENE (Public Square) (Samson and Gregory, [two Serves
Capulets,] are armed with swords and shields on.) Simson On my word,
Gregorio, we want nothing in your pocket. GREGORIO Of course not,
otherwise we would be pocket players.

Simson, I think I will get the Koller and leather ziehn. GREGORIO
Ne, friend, your leather Koller you must not undress in his body.
Simson I propose to fast when I'm upset. GREGORIO But you will not
be quickly raised. Simson A dog from Montagues brings home to me.
GREGORIO afford a means to create the body. In order to be brave, we
must stand up. So if you can afford, so you walk away. Simson A dog
from the house leads me to the state hold.

[With each and every servant girl Montagues, I will begin.] I have
at every servant of the Montagues and girls and take precedence So the
wall side, [so that I am not on the dirty road must meet the middle.]
GREGORIO This shows you that you're a weak slave, for the weakest
goes to the wall.

Simson That is true, and therefore the women, because the weaker they
are always pressed against the wall: therefore I will Montagues
Serves wegstoßen from the wall and his girl against the wall press.

GREGORIO The dispute is only between us and our dominions, their
servants. [The girls start with? Pfui doch! Do you prefer to take leave
of them.] Simson monotony! I want to go to work barbaric. Hab
ichs servant with only ausgefochten, so I want the girls to throw.
"It's
been in the family of Roxor for six generations, but I know that you
will appreciate and cherish it." He twisted a heavy ring from his left
hand and gave it to his son. He unstrapped his wrist watch and passed
it across the table to the gray-clad upper-servant. He gave a pocket
case, containing writing tools, slide rule and magnifier, to the
bearded man on the other side of Dallona. "Something you can use, Dr.
Harnosh," he said. Then he took a belt, with a knife and holstered
pistol, from a servant who had brought it to him, and gave it to the
man with the red badge. "And something for you, Dirzed. The pistol's
by Farnor of Yand, and the knife was forged and tempered on Luna."

The man with the winged-bullet badge took the weapons, exclaiming in
appreciation. Then he removed his own belt and buckled on the gift.

"The pistol's fully loaded," Garnon told him.

Dirzed drew it and checked--a man of his craft took no statement about
weapons without verification--then slipped it back into the holster.

"Shall I use it?" he asked.

"By all means; I'd had that in mind when I selected it for you."

Another man, to the left of Girzon, received a cigarette case and
lighter. He and Garnon hooked fingers and clapped shoulders.

"Our views haven't been the same, Garnon," he said, "but I've always
valued your friendship. I'm sorry you're doing this, now; I believe
you'll be disappointed."

Garnon chuckled. "Would you care to make a small wager on that,
Nirzav?" he asked. "You know what I'm putting up. If I'm proven right,
will you accept the Volitionalist theory as verified?"

Nirzav chewed his mustache for a moment. "Yes, Garnon, I will." He
pointed toward the blankly white screen. "If we get anything
conclusive on that, I'll have no other choice."

"All right, friends," Garnon said to those around him. "Will you walk
with me to the end of the room?"

Servants removed a section from the table in front of him, to allow
him and a few others to pass through; the rest of the guests remained
standing at the table, facing toward the inside of the room. Garnon's
son, Girzon, and the gray-mustached Nirzav of Shonna, walked on his
left; Dallona of Hadron and Dr. Harnosh of Hosh on his right. Aquis
submersus Theodor Storm novel (1876) In our earlier to the ducal palace
belonging, but in living memory totally neglected "Castle Garden" were
already in my boyhood in the once old French styles ranging Hagebuchenhecken
with thin, ghostly avenues maturity, however, because they are still
some leaves bear, so we know the local, through foliage of the trees
is not spoiled, they nevertheless also in this form to estimate,
and because of us thoughtful people will always one or the other
there to meet his.

We then under the meager shade after the so-called "mountain" to wander,
a small hill in the northwestern corner of the garden above the dry
bed of a fish pond, where the broadest view nothing stands in the way.
Most might look to the West to adjust to the bright green
of the marshes and darüberhin to the silver flood of the sea to amuse,
to which the elongated shadow of the floating island, my eyes
involuntarily turn to the north, where barely one miles away, the
gray church tower from the spitze higher situated, but barren coastal
land rises, because there is one of the sites of my youth.

The pastor's son from the village that I visited with the "scholar's
school" my father city, and countless times we are on Saturday
afternoons together dahinaus wandered, and then on Sunday evening
or early Monday to our Nepos or later Cicero to our return to the
city.

It was then in the middle of the road, a piece of good heath left
unbroken, as they once referred to one side until almost to the town,
just after the other against the village had. Here buzzing in the
flowers of the fragrant heather gray and white immense bumblebees
and ran among the barren stems of the same beautiful gold-green
beetles, where the scent of heather and clouds of butterflies floated
resinous Gagelstrauches which nowhere else could be found.

My parents' home, the impatient zustrebender his friend had often love
misery, his dreamy comrades by all the glories with fortzubringen, we
had grown, but the field is reached, then it was also about the
mood in forward, and soon, if we just only the long Sandweg hinaufwateten,
we already saw above the dark green of the lilac hedge the gable of
the house pastor, the pastor of the study, with its small blind
windows on the well-known guests hinabgrüßte.

The pastor people, whose only child was my friend, we had all the time,
as Here we say, five quarters in the yard, quite apart from the
wonderful natural food. Only the silver poplar, the only high and
therefore also the only tempting tree of the village, which their
branches well above the mossy piece of straw roof was rushing,
was the same as the apple of paradise we banned and was therefore only
of us secretly climbed otherwise was much I correctly, everything
was permitted and indeed in our age group the best of us exploited.
The main venue of our actions was the big "Koppel priest," with a
gate leading from the garden.

Here we knew with the instincts of the boys offered the nests of
skylarks and Grauammern track, which we then repeated the visit in
order to see how far in the last two hours the eggs or young are
now thrived here on a deep and as I now believe, not less dangerous
than those poplar water pit, which brim with old Weidenstümpfen was
tight circumstances, we started the deft black beetle, which we
call "water Frenchman called it, or we did another one on our
specially designed, built navy yard from walnut-shell box lids and
swim.

In late summer it was also well aware that we learn from our paddock
after a raid of Kuesters garden made, which compared to the vicarage
on the other side of the water pit was, because there we had two
apple trees stunted our Tenth einzuheimsen what we admittedly
occasionally a friendly threat from the good-natured old man received
.-- So many joys of youth grew on this priest Koppel, whose arid
sandy soil other flowers would not thrive, and only the sharp scent
of goldknopfigen Rainfarren who haufenweis on all walls were, I
still feel today in the memories, those times when my life.

But all this is only temporarily employed, my constant attendance on
the other hand, attracted to another, which we own nothing in the
city to the site had set. - I am not about the buildings of the
tube Lehmwespen, anywhere from the wall joints of the building
stands out, although it was graceful enough in contemplative lunch
hour off and fly the busy creatures to observe, I am referring to
the much larger construction of the old and unusually stately village
church.

Up to the shingled roof of the tower, she was high from the ground
up granite blocks set up and dominated at the highest point of the
village is uplifting to-wide review on heath, marsh and beach .--
The greatest attraction for me, however, had the interior of the
church ; already immense key, which by the Apostle Peter himself
to come seemed excited my imagination.

And in fact, he even opened, we will be happy if the old sexton
had abgewonnen, the gateway to some wonderful things, from which a
long past time here as dark, then with devout childlike eyes, but
always in mysterious silence us alive aufblickte. As was in the
middle of the church down a terribly superhuman Crucifixus, whose
gaunt limbs and distorted face with blood überrieselt were on the
side of a wall pier adhered like a nest braungeschnitzte the pulpit,
at the fruit and from Blattgewinden all sorts of animals and is
Teufelsfratzen hervorzudrängen seemed.

Special attraction but had the great carved altar cabinet in the choir
of the church, on the painted figures in the Passion of Christ was
depicted so strange wild faces, like that of Caiaphas, or the
servants of the war, which in its golden armor to the crucified
roller coat, got you out in life not to see, so comforting Holde
contrasted only the face of the crosses on hingesunkenen Maria;
yes, they would easily my heart boy with a fantastic tendency
entangled best, if not another with even greater allure of mystery
myself by it would have been deducted.

Among all these strange or even disagreeable things probably hung in the
aisle of the church, the innocent image of a dead child, a beautiful
five year old boy who, on a pillow with lace occupied dormant, a
white water lily in his small pale hands held .

From the gentle face said, besides the horror of death, as hülfeflehend,
one last Holde trace of life, an irresistible infested pity me when
I stood before this picture. But it was not alone here; also looked
tight from a dark brown wooden frame , schwarzbärtiger man in a
priest collar and Sammar. My friend told me that it was the father
of that beautiful boy and this itself, so today was a legend,
should be used in the water pit our priests Koppel his death have found.
In the context we read the year 1666, which was long ago. Again and
again it took me to these two pictures, a great desire seized me
by the life and death of the child shall be a further, albeit still
so sparse customer to obtain, even from the sinister countenance
of the father, despite the priest collar myself almost on the
servants of the altar of war cabinet gemahnen wanted, I looked for
it herauszulesen. - According to such studies in the twilight of
the old church appeared to be the house of the good pastor to people
just so hospitable.

Admittedly, it was equally high years, and the father of my friend hoped
as long as I could imagine, on a new building, but as the Küsterei at
the same age suffering from weakness, it was neither here nor there
.-- And yet built, as were friendly but the rooms of the old house
in winter, the small office right in the summer left of the larger
hallway, where the Reformation almanacs cut images in Mahagonirähmchen
at the whitewashed wall hung, where one out of the western window
only a distant windmill, but also the whole wide sky in front of
you had dinner in the rose-colored slip transformed and then the
whole room überglänzte!

The loving pastor who armchairs with plush red cushions, the old
deep sofa, on the table at the dinner sausende confidential Kettle
- it was all bright, friendly presence. Only one evening -
we were already being Sekundaner - the thought came to me, what a past
like these rooms, not even if those dead boy once with fresh cheeks
here umhergesprungen lives in bodily form, whose portrait now like
a wistful Holden Tell dark room filled church. reason to give such
thoughtfulness liked that I am afternoons, where we drive on my
once again visited the church had, down in a dark corner of the
image four with red ink-written letters had discovered that I had
until now escaped .

CPAS you read, "I said to the father of my friend," but we can not
unravel. " "Well," replied that "the inscription is well known to
me, and takes you to the rumor Hülfe so want the two most recent
letters with Aquis submersus, ie with 'drowning' or literally
'immersed in the water' to indicate his; only with the previous CP
would then still in a predicament!

The young adjunktus our Kuesters, once the Quarta happened, says
although it could be Casu periculoso -'Durch dangerous Zufall' -
hot, but the old men of the time logical thought, and if the boy
is drowned, it was the chance not only just dangerous.

"I was eager to listen. "Casu 'I said," it could also probably'
Culpa 'mean? "" Culpa? " repeated the pastor.

       "Due to debt - but whose fault?"

Then came the dark picture of the old preacher to me before the
soul, and without much reflect I cried: "Why not: patris Culpa?"
The good pastor was almost frightened. "Ei, ei, my young friend," he
said and raised his finger warningly against me. "Through the fault
of the father?

- So we want to, despite his dismal reputation blessed my brother,
the official but not blame. Also, he would most like difficult for
themselves if necessary." This latter would also be obvious to my
adolescent understanding, and remained so because the actual meaning
of the inscription remains a mystery of the past.

That way, those two images is also essential in painting some old
preacher excelled portraits, which hung next to it was already clear
to myself, but that experts in the painter an efficient altholländischer
masters students wanted to know, I certainly learned by now the
father of my friend.

However, such a poor village in this sly, or where it came and how he
had told, he also knew about me nothing to say. The pictures
themselves contained neither a name nor a sign painter. The years
went out. While we visited the University, died of the good pastor,
and the mother of my school comrades followed later her son on his
Pfarrstelle been reached elsewhere, and I had no more, after that
walk to the village .-- Since, as I myself have my father in town
resident was, it happened that I voted for the son of a relative a
student neighborhood with good public citizens had to pay.

The youth do own, I strolled in the afternoon sun shines through
the streets as me at the corner of the market over the door of an old
house a platform hochgegiebelten German inscription in the eye was the
verhochdeutscht some would read: Just as smoke and dust verschwindt,
So are also the human child.

The words for young eyes might well not be visible, because I had never
noticed, whenever I am in my school give me a wake-up at the Hot resident
had brought the baker.

Almost involuntarily I stepped into the house, and in Indeed, it
was a sub-Come here for the young cousin. The cellar of their old
"Möddersch" (mother's sister) - then told me the friendly masters -
from whom they inherited the house and holding would have stood empty
for years, long, they had a young guest wanted to. I was hinaufgeführt
stairs, and then we entered a rather low, archaic furnished room,
whose two windows with their small wheels on the spacious square
beyond. Previously, told the Master, were two ancient lime trees in
front of the door was, but he did beat them, because they are too much
into the house gedunkelt and also the beautiful view had
completely obscured. The conditions we were soon in all parts agree,
while but then we still have to be taken now, the organization of
the room said, was my view of a cabinet in the shade of a hanging
oil paintings like the sudden my whole attention hinwegnahm.

It was still well preserved and has an older, serious and mild-looking
man, in a dark dress, as in the middle of the seventeenth century,
they make those from the stands to take care of, which deals
more with state matters or things as taught by the war crafts
employed.

The head of the old gentleman, so beautiful and attractive and
so he painted splendid always liked, however, had no such excitement
in me emerged, but the painter had him a pale boy in the arm laid
in his small, flaccid hanging a white hand-held water lily, and
this boy I knew so long ago.

Again, it was probably the death of his eyes had zugedrückt. "Where
is this picture?" I finally asked, because I was suddenly
aware that the master standing in front of me with his dispute was held.
He looked at me puzzled. "The old image? This is from our Möddersch,
"he replied," it comes from their Urgroßonkel, a painter
and had over a hundred years ago lived here. There are seven other
things from him since. "With these words he showed after a small
load of oak wood, on which all sorts of geometric figures
incised were quite delicate., When I of the barrier on which they
stood, herunternahm dropped the lid back and it showed me as the
content of some heavily yellowed sheets of paper with a very old
lettering.

"May I read the sheets?" I asked. "If it makes you Pläsier," replied
the master, "so do you like the whole thing to take home there are
ancient writings, is not worth it. "But I asked myself and
also received permission to these worthless writings here on the spot
to be able to read, and while I was over the old image into a powerful
set Ohrenlehnstuhl left the master's room, still surprised, but
nevertheless the promise of friendly back leaving that his wife
me soon with a good cup of coffee will regulate.

But I read in reading and had soon everything around me forget it.
So I was back home because Holsten in our country and on Sundays
it was Cantate Anno 1661 - My Malgeräth and other luggage I had in the
city left behind and walked cheerfully fürbaß now, the road through the
green Maien Buchenwald, which the country goes into the lake. Before
me flew now and then a few Waldvöglein and letzeten their thirst
in the water so deep into the Radgeleisen hours; Linder because
rain had fallen overnight and it did early in the morning, so that
the sun shade the forest still had not exceeded.

The bright throttle hit , of the glades to me Scholl, found its
echo in my heart. The orders, as my master Theurer van der Helst
in the last years of my stay I zugewendet Amsterdam, I was all concerned
Quitt become a good Zehrpfennig and a change to Hamburg still
itzt I wore in my pockets, which I was handsome angethan: my hair fell
on my coat with fine Grauwerk, and the sword was missing Lütticher not
on my hip.

       My thoughts but rushed ahead of me, I always saw Mr Gerhardus, my
noble large favorable Protector, as proposed by the threshold of
his room my hands würd 'opposite track, with its mild greeting: "So
God bless your input, my John!"

He had once with my love, ah, even early in the eternal glory of
the envisaged father to the rights of Jena studiret and was also
nachmals the arts and sciences obgelegen with diligence, so that
he blessed the High Duke Friederich in his fine, although because
of the Kriegsläufte futile efforts to establishing a state university
eager to inspect and Berather been. Although a single aristocratic
family man He was my dear father, but always in zugethan remained
faithful, even after it had blessed step in my youth verwaiseten
more than to verhoffen, and not just my thrifty aufgebessert
resources, but also by its fürnehme acquaintance among the Dutch
nobility is then brought to my master Theuermann van der Helst me
to his students accepted. but I thought to know that the ladies man
unharmed, sitting on his mansion, which the Almighty is not enough
to thank, because, while I am in a foreign art zeal , was at home
the horrors of war over the country come, so while that troops who
oppose the kriegswüthigen Sweden assisted the king to hergezogen,
almost worse than the enemies themselves gehauset and even the
servant of God in several miserable death.

Due to the sudden step of the Swedish Carolus was now in peace, but
the savage stomp of war were everywhere, many a farmer or Käthnerhaus,
where I found myself as a boy with a sweet drink milk bewirthet, I
had on my morning walk on the paths niedergesenget are seen and
some field in Edema weed it otherwise at this time of rye drove his
green peaks.

But such beschwerete me not too much today, I had only a desire, as I
have the noble Lord through my art wants to prove that he Was in
favor and no undignified've wasted ; thought not lost on hoodlums and
rabble, the wars of her still in the woods should machinations.
tückete But another me, and that was the thought of Junker Wulf.

He had me hold never been, was probably even, what his noble father
done to me, as a theft from his own views, and sometimes when I, as
often after my dear father's death, in the summer on the Good Vacanze
zubrachte, he had me the beautiful days vergället and salinisation.

Whether he anitzt in his father's home was, it was not known
to me has had only heard that he had before the game in peace and cups
with the traffic officer held Swedish, what right Holsten loyalty is
not to rhyme. Diess By looking at me considered, I was out of the
beech forest in the indicative Tannenstrasse climb through the
match progressed, which is already close to the court. How lovely
reminder umhauchte me the scent of spicy resin, but soon as I stepped
from the shadows into the full sunshine addition, there were on both
sides with hazel bushes eingehegten meadows, and not long, so I wandered
between the rows of huge oak trees zwo to the manor hinaufführen. I do
not know what a bang suddenly feeling overcome me, Ohn all causes,
as I now thought, because it was vain sunshine around, and from
heaven sounded quite charming and warmly encouraging Lerch singing.
And behold, there on the paddock, where his Immenhof Hofmann has also
stood the old wooden pear tree and whispered with his young leaves in
the blue air. "Grüß you God!" I said, powerful, but thought less of
the tree, rather than the Holden creature of God, in which, as it had
to add nachmals all happiness and suffering and all gnawing repent
of my life should be decided, for now and all time.

That was Mr Gerhardus the noble daughter, the Junkers Wulfen only siblings.
Item, it was shortly after my dear father's death, when I first
heard the whole Vacanze spent here, she was currently a nine-year
Dirnlein, their brown braids flying was fun, I counted for a few
years. So one morning I stepped out of the Thorhaus; the old Hofmann
Dieterich, who lives above the entrance and next to the faithful than
a man my Schlafkämmerlein acknowledged, had me a sheet ash
prepared, I am also capable of the bolts to lead cast, and I wanted
to turn now to the Raptors, whose enough umherschrien at the mansion,
because she came at me from the court admitted skipped.

Tortha Karf asked.

"Oh, chief!" Verkan Vall reproached. "You know better than that! How
many times have our people got in trouble on other time-lines because
they divulged some useful scientific fact that conflicted with the
locally revered nonsense? You show me ten men who cherish some
religious doctrine or political ideology, and I'll show you nine men
whose minds are utterly impervious to any factual evidence which
contradicts their beliefs, and who regard the producer of such
evidence as a criminal who ought to be suppressed. For instance, on
the Fourth Level Europo-American Sector, where I was just working,
there is a political sect, the Communists, who, in the territory under
their control, forbid the teaching of certain well-established facts
of genetics and heredity, because those facts do not fit the
world-picture demanded by their political doctrines. And on the same
sector, a religious sect recently tried, in some sections
successfully, to outlaw the teaching of evolution by natural
selection."

Tortha Karf nodded. "I remember some stories my grandfather told me,
about his narrow escapes from an organization called the Holy
Inquisition, when he was a paratime trader on the Fourth Level, about
four hundred years ago. I believe that thing's still operating, on the
Europo-American Sector, under the name of the NKVD. So you think Dalla
may have proven something that conflicted with local reincarnation
theories, and somebody who had a vested interest in maintaining those
theories is trying to stop her?"

"You spoke of a controversy over the communication alleged to have
originated with this voluntarily discarnated nobleman. That would
suggest a difference of opinion on the manner of nature of
reincarnation or the discarnate state. This difference may mark the
dividing line between the different political parties. Now, to get to
this Darsh place, do I have to go to Venus, as Dalla did?"

"No. The Outtime Trading Corporation has transposition facilities at
Ravvanan, on the Nile, which is spatially co-existent with the city of
Ghamma on the Akor-Neb Sector, where Zortan Brend is. You transpose
through there, and Zortan Brend will furnish you transportation to
Darsh. It'll take you about two days, here, getting your hypno-mech
indoctrinations and having your skin pigmented, and your hair turned
black. I'll notify Zortan Brend at once that you're coming through.
Is there anything special you'll want?"

"Why, I'll want an abstract of the reports Dalla sent back to Rhogom
Foundation. It's likely that there is some clue among them as to whom
her discoveries may have antagonized. I'm going to be a Venusian
_zerfa_-planter, a friend of her father's; I'll want full hypno-mech
indoctrination to enable me to play that part. And I'll want to
familiarize myself with Akor-Neb weapons and combat techniques. I
think that will be all, chief."

       *       *       *       *       *

The last of the tall city-units of Ghamma were sliding out of sight as
the ship passed over them--shaft-like buildings that rose two or three
thousand feet above the ground in clumps of three or four or six, one
at each corner of the landing stages set in series between them. Each
of these units stood in the middle of a wooded park some five miles
square; no unit was much more or less than twenty miles from its
nearest neighbor, and the land between was the uniform golden-brown of
ripening grain, crisscrossed with the threads of irrigation canals and
dotted here and there with sturdy farm-village buildings and tall,
stacklike granaries. There were a few other ships in the air at the
fifty-thousand-foot level, and below, swarms of small airboats darted
back and forth on different levels, depending upon speed and
direction. Far ahead, to the northeast, was the shimmer of the Red Sea
and the hazy bulk of Asia Minor beyond.

Verkan Vall--the Lord Virzal of Verkan, temporarily--stood at the
glass front of the observation deck, looking down. He was a different
Verkan Vall from the man who had talked with Tortha Karf in the
latter's office, two days before. The First Level cosmeticists had
worked miracles upon him with their art. His skin was a soft
chocolate-brown, now; his hair was jet-black, and so were his eyes.
And in his subconscious mind, instantly available to consciousness,
was a vast body of knowledge about conditions on the Akor-Neb sector,
as well as a complete command of the local language, all hypnotically
acquired.

He knew that he was looking down upon one of the minor provincial
cities of a very respectably advanced civilization. A civilization
which built its cities vertically, since it had learned to counteract
gravitation. A civilization which still depended upon natural cereals
for food, but one which had learned to make the most efficient use of
its soil. The network of dams and irrigation canals which he saw was
as good as anything on his own paratime level. The wide dispersal of
buildings, he knew, was a heritage of a series of disastrous atomic
wars of several thousand years before; the Akor-Neb people had come to
love the wide inter-vistas of open country and forest, and had
continued to scatter their buildings, even after the necessity had
passed. But the slim, towering buildings could only have been reared
by a people who had banished nationalism and, with it, the threat of
total war. He contrasted them with the ground-hugging dome cities of
the Khiftan civilization, only a few thousand parayears distant.

Three men came out of the lounge behind him and joined him. One was,
like himself, a disguised paratimer from the First Level--the Outtime
Export and Import man, Zortan Brend, here known as Brarnend of Zorda.
The other two were Akor-Neb people, and both wore the black tunics and
the winged-bullet badges of the Society of Assassins. Unlike Verkan
Vall and Zortan Brend, who wore shoulder holsters under their short
tunics, the Assassins openly displayed pistols and knives on their
belts.

"We heard that you were coming two days ago, Lord Virzal," Zortan
Brend said. "We delayed the take-off of this ship, so that you could
travel to Darsh as inconspicuously as possible. I also booked a suite
for you at the Solar Hotel, at Darsh. And these are your
Assassins--Olirzon, and Marnik."

Verkan Vall hooked fingers and clapped shoulders with them.

"Virzal of Verkan," he identified himself. "I am satisfied to intrust
myself to you."

"We'll do our best for you, Lord Virzal," the older of the pair,
Olirzon, said. He hesitated for a moment, then continued: "Understand,
Lord Virzal, I only ask for information useful in serving and
protecting you. But is this of the Lady Dallona a political matter?"

"Not from our side," Verkan Vall told him. "The Lady Dallona is a
scientist, entirely nonpolitical. The Honorable Brarnend is a business
man; he doesn't meddle with politics as long as the politicians leave
him alone. And I'm a planter on Venus; I have enough troubles, with
the natives, and the weather, and blue-rot in the _zerfa_ plants, and
poison roaches, and javelin bugs, without getting into politics. But
psychic science is inextricably mixed with politics, and the Lady
Dallona's work had evidently tended to discredit the theory of
Statistical Reincarnation."

"Do you often make understatements like that, Lord Virzal?" Olirzon
grinned. "In the last six months, she's knocked Statistical
Reincarnation to splinters."

"Well, I'm not a psychic scientist, and as I said, I don't know much
about Terran politics," Verkan Vall replied. "I know that the
Statisticalists favor complete socialization and political control of
the whole economy, because they want everybody to have the same
opportunities in every reincarnation. And the Volitionalists believe
that everybody reincarnates as he pleases, and so they favor
continuance of the present system of private ownership of wealth and
private profit under a system of free competition. And that's about
all I do know. Naturally, as a land-owner and the holder of a title of
nobility, I'm a Volitionalist in politics, but the socialization
issue isn't important on Venus. There is still too much unseated land
there, and too many personal opportunities, to make socialism
attractive to anybody."

"Well, that's about it," Zortan Brend told him. "I'm not enough of a
psychicist to know what the Lady Dallona's been doing, but she's
knocked the theoretical basis from under Statistical Reincarnation,
and that's the basis, in turn, of Statistical Socialism. I think we'll
find that the Statisticalist Party is responsible for whatever
happened to her."

Marnik, the younger of the two Assassins, hesitated for a moment, then
addressed Verkan Vall:

"Lord Virzal, I know none of the personalities involved in this
matter, and I speak without wishing to give offense, but is it not
possible that the Lady Dallona and the Assassin Dirzed may have gone
somewhere together voluntarily? I have met Dirzed, and he has many
qualities which women find attractive, and he is by no means
indifferent to the opposite sex. You understand, Lord Virzal--"

"I understand all too perfectly, Marnik," Verkan Vall replied, out of
the fullness of experience. "The Lady Dallona has had affairs with a
number of men, myself among them. But under the circumstances, I find
that explanation unthinkable."

Marnik looked at him in open skepticism. Evidently, in his book, where
an attractive man and a beautiful woman were concerned, that
explanation was never unthinkable.

"The Lady Dallona is a scientist," Verkan Vall elaborated. "She is not
above diverting herself with love affairs, but that's all they are--a
not too important form of diversion. And, if you recall, she had just
participated in a most significant experiment: you can be sure that
she had other things on her mind at the time than pleasure jaunts with
good-looking Assassins."

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship was passing around the Caucasus Mountains, with the Caspian
Sea in sight ahead, when several of the crew appeared on the
observation deck and began preparing the shielding to protect the deck
from gunfire. Zortan Brend inquired of the petty officer in charge of
the work as to the necessity.

"We've been getting reports of trouble at Darsh, sir," the man said.
"Newscast bulletins every couple of minutes: rioting in different
parts of the city. Started yesterday afternoon, when a couple of
Statisticalist members of the Executive Council resigned and went over
to the Volitionalists. Lord Nirzav of Shonna, the only nobleman of any
importance in the Statisticalist Party, was one of them; he was shot
immediately afterward, while leaving the Council Chambers, along with
a couple of Assassins who were with him. Some people in an airboat
sprayed them with a machine rifle as they came out onto the landing
stage."

The two Assassins exclaimed in horrified anger over this.

"That wasn't the work of members of the Society of Assassins!" The mother
has allowed me. Liese (the tears Hiesel the saw out of the hands). Let
stand, I say. If you are what ruin the fathers. Hiesel. I work already
as good as as the father.

(Hämmert.) (Pepi wants from the Cabinet herausgehn, but falls down
and cries.)

Liese. The highlights on boys! (It lifts him up, he still has the
children Röckchen, and presents it on the table.) Now he's not
yet dressed. (She prefers him to Kamisol.) Michael (she plucks at the
dress). The key give me that I can cancel my schoolbooks. Liesenfeld.
Let me go, I have the boys attraction. When the mother is coming!

It's been eleven clock. Hansel. Hiesel, come out, we rise up in
Taubenkobel. Liese. No, if the boys from the school to come home, not
for sustaining ists. (Hiesel hammers.) Do not hammer on? (A goose
eats and runs inside.) Michael (after the exit signs). The meat goes
on.

Liesenfeld (requires little boys into the middle room, the screams).
On the small boys give careful! (Runs out.)

Hansel (calls). Hiesel, Aussa go! Previous sixth appearance. Valentin.
Flottwell. Valentin. Stroll your graces just come in! (Hansel from the
window goes away.) Graces your traps do not have the boys. Who has
it since the middle of the room hergesetzt? I ask for forgiveness, it
is all in disarray. A clean armchair! (Michael runs into the cabinet
and brings a wooden chair.) Goose chases after the addition! the
plane shadow away! (Hiesel does. Valentine to Michael.) Bring a
cushion! (Michael runs away and stumbles.) Now, it raises the
Leimpfandel around. Gfallt How Your graces as the industry? (Michael
brings an upholstered bed.) What do you do, would have brought
even a Tuchet. (chases him away with it. To Flottwell.) I would
like to sit. Lieserl, where art thou? Come here yet. All the
children! (Liese, all children up to Hans.) Where is the Hansel?
Liesenfeld. He is already out there. Valentin (looks through the
window).

Since I have the honor of my family listed. One - two - three o'clock-four
o'clock, and the fifth is sitting on the Taubenkobel above. My wife
will come home right after.

The will be a pleasure. Hansel! Come here quick. Hansel (domestic
calls). I can not get down so quickly! Valentin. So falling down. Now
go forth as children. As is in the circle around you! (Hansel comes.)
Then the Lord. This is my dear good Gracious Lord, which I told you
so much hab. The fathers have your hundred people and a lot of good
done. Go out and kissed him all the distributors. (The kids are doing
it. Meanwhile says) Hansel. Father, who looks even not as a
Gracious Lord. Valentin.

Are breastfeeding. You're not a connoisseur. What do you think of
merciful than men.

(Hansel doing it too.) Pepi. Your grace, Pepi also hand kiss. Valentin.
The youngest child of my mood, your grace. Liese (embarrassed).
Your Grace! Our Lord's father gave us the way a lot of good, love and
beauty of your grace I said that we are quite happy to know Your
grace.

       Flottwell. God!

(The fall of pain and shame overwhelmed in the chair and cloaked
with both hands, the face.) Liese (softly). Father, the Lord
regretted me. Even the poor must go! Valentin (well). Tute nothing,
we are already talking about it! (Liese geht ab.) Gehts now,
children who go a little further into the yard. (For Hiesel.) You find
yourself outside the fattest ducks in order. (To Michael.) And
you're looking for your mother. You should come home immediately after.
(Children from). My God, the children who know nothing of the world.
(Seufzt.)

Yes yes! His graces your not so upset. I did not even too much. But your
grace I shall not perish. But tell me your graces but once, as is so
because the disaster came? Flottwell. I lived through eight years with
my precious wife to me in London had a son born, very happy. However,
on a trip to South America, from which they sought to hold me in
vain, as if it had my accident geahnet, snatched me death both.

I went back to London, looking for distraction.

My expenses rose. I let myself in great speculation, which I only fame,
but could not bring profit, and after several years I saw my assets
up to a small residual melts. Now I was scared, I decided to return
to my homeland, with the fixed intent, I am restricted in every
respect.

I came to Germany - was an unfortunate idea Wiesbaden visit me.

Here was the limit of my recklessness. After twenty years, I played
again in the hope to increase my assets, I won, continuing to play and
lost everything. Everything. Had to leave behind my wardrobe, and
with twenty dollars, the long journey to my beloved homeland, where I
am with irresistible force moved on foot, and so I am now destitute
beggars.

Valentin. This is indeed a sad story, but it is necessary to
stop that s' experience. But forgive me Your grace, your graces but
a bissel be your own fault. It sends itself does not mean that I
say.

But a gentleman who is so dagestanden as your grace - It is to Totärgern
- I can not help me, I hold the red, as ichs think. Flottwell. You're
right. Oh, now, all warnings of my soul, I am from the pride and
high spirits spurned, Cheristane and the gruesome picture of mysterious
beggar that made me such a long time and has its origin, I will probably
never unravel. Valentin. Now his only calms your graces. As I've
said. Everything in my power. Have your graces only the Gnad and walk
your graces allergnädigst Meanwhile in the other room inside that
we were a little bit together can recognize.

It looks quite as innobel from. Look to your grace to a little inside.
Since your graces are something to see what your grace will certainly
enjoy. (He led him to the door.) Flottwell.

Dienertreu O, you equal to the moon, we see you only when our sun
goes down.

(Ab) Valentin. This is a fine speech, but I did not understand
it. Lisi, children, go here! (Liese. Hiesel. Hansel.) Liese.
What orders the father? Valentin. Did you like your fathers? All
three. Yes! Valentin. Will you make it a joy? All three. Yes, dear
father! Valentin. Annoyances have you done to me enough. Be with the
Lord because of it pretty good and polite. He is with us in the house
to stay. I never let him continue. And talking to the mother, she
is a good woman, but sometimes a little gäh. Children. We know best,
we have enough auszustehen with her. Valentin. So? Yes what is now
the parents of the children to cause grief and worry, that's
extraordinary. So it goes with him. I come again, I just need the
door to make Tavern. And do not forget what I've said. He is unhappy.
With the unfortunate people you need to subtly bypass. The fortunate
can have a rather Puff endure. (Children's off to the Cabinet.)
Valentin (alone).

No, if you experienced such things, because you totally mistaken
on luck. What uses everything! The man thinks, the sky draws. Song Da
argue that people often surrounded by the value of happiness, The
one called the other stupid, nobody knows at the end nix. There is
the poorest man in the other far too rich. The fate of the sets
Planers And to hobelt s' both the same. The youth will always stop
with Gwalt In all be happy, but you will only bissel old, Since
you find itself Dreiner. bickers Often my wife with me, oh Graus! This
brings me not in anger. Since knocking me from my plane and thought you
buzz me well.

Displays the death once plucks And forgive me: Brüderle, grief! Since
I am in the beginning of deaf And look at me not to. But he says:
Dear Valentine! Mach no circumstances! Go! Since I put my plane out And
tell the world Adje. (Ab) Repetition A carpenter when his was like, Did
some happy hours, but happiness is not in the world with wealth
only in the covenant. Seh I zufriednen much sense to me since
fleeing everything Weh. Because I do not put the plane out not Tell
Adje of art! (Ab) Seventh Flottwell appearance with a picture
in his hand, his image in representing a young age. Liese. Hans. Hiesel.
Flottwell. What pleased me, my picture in your house. I can not
in better hands. How is it your father come? Liesenfeld. The father
has told us he bought hats in the castle. How it is judicially
lizitiert been. Flottwell (sighs). Yes so! Hansel. And it did not
cost much. There is no man which want to give this. Flottwell
(for themselves). Shameful! Liese (secretly). Are breastfeeding! Do
you not know what the father said? Hiesel (indicates the edge of the
image). As is the date, if your grace born. Liese (looks like).

The last Julius. (Freudig.) Since today is your birthday? Ah! this is
beautiful. Precisely fifty years. All three. Congratulations! (Liese
runs continued) Flottwell. As the sun sank, I was born. If they will
fall again? Where will I be? (Sinks into thought.) Hiesel (to Hans).
You know, I am your amusement, when my birthday is. Hansel. Yes, he
is already fifty born. Since gwöhnt mans halt. Liese (Pepi ride
in, is now referred to as Knäbchen cleanly dressed and carries a large
bouquet of flowers). As I bring another wishers. Hansel (looks out the
window). Just comes the mother! (Runs out.) Liese (warmly). Want your
graces many such flowers bloom on your way! That we wish you all
wholeheartedly.

Flottwell (takes deep taken the bouquet says) Thank you, dear
children! (and submit it on the table.) Oh, why can I have only words
to thank! Previous Eighth appearance. Rosa, simply dressed bourgeois,
aged. She wears a covered basket. Hans and Michael with her. Rosa
(angry about Hans). What stay? Receive a foreign people? When so
much has children to feed! Is your father foolish? That was' still ab!
(Sees Flottwell.) There he is, yes. (For themselves.) Nu, from the
looks clean! Flottwell (who sat at tables and listened Rosas
speeches, stands on). Good day, dear woman, Rosa (nasty greeting). Good
day, Herr von Flottwell! Glad that your old servants provided.
So you can at least convince them that we are poor but honest
people.

In our house has never been a jewelry exists, what you see. We have
also in your service does not generate as much as you can as some
people who are a lock of it was purchased.

I think you will understand me. Flottwell. I do not quite
understand, dear woman. I do not exactly remember all the events at
my house. Only I know certainly that none of my servant, with my
desire to befall an injustice is. Pink (fine). Ah what! Conditions
determine the expressions of the people. I can tell you nothing at
all to say Lord of Flottwell as: Look at us! Can you demand of us
that we are limited in our situation is even a man get, we have
nothing to thank our right as a reward, so you are free to stay
with us.

My husband is a good Lappe, who is all talk.

The nähmet the whole world into the house, but I'm a housewife, I
have to decide, I know our relationships, our spending and our revenue.
I have for my children when they have nothing to eat, and I can not
give my consent. We will be happy if us today at noon to honor.
We will not let scoff. But forever? Forgive S '! I can not admit!
Today in my house and never! Flottwell (disgusted with astonishment).
No! I have not heard! It was a dream! So she spoke to Julius von Flottwell
their einstgen Lord. At that Flottwell in the one hundred goldumstarrten
Saale flatterer at the table saw! Gepriesnen to the father of his
servant! For the noblest of friends! At best, most beautiful,
witty and goldbeglücktesten of people, and how the lies are all
the candy to their full glass hinschrieb. So she spoke to me that these
flowers have to ignite it heilger gratitude could have him as
an angel in the lap of paradise picked? O woman! Can I the tenth part
of my happiness zurückbeschwören and verlornen tenfold misery to your
old main hinschmettern that will take you to my feet should lead,
then should my generosity you teach, how you were wrong, that you
in my misfortune I've hurt so bitter. ( Gebt from.)

Liese (grieves). That would have the mother but does not do. Rosa
(angry). Still, and march into the Kuchel out!

(Liese geht ab. One of the boys.) Nu you have nothing to do
Hansel (sobbed). That I say the fathers, when he comes home. (Goes with
the others anyway.) Rosa (alone). That would be a nice business! And
as the man screams in a different room! And he has something of an old
Main gsagt. Because I've an old main? The man must have no eyes in the
head. It uses nothing once, you need to talk to his property. Who 's
foot aufmacht not, you must open up the bag. Ah, my husband
comes home, I will say my opinion. Previous Ninth appearance. Valentin.
Valentin. So! Now the door again in order. Ah, you have to house,
dear wife? This is Gscheid. Rosa. Yes, fortunately I am still at the
right time to come home to your hasty Streiche lost. Valentin.
What string? Where is the gracious Lord? Rosa. Where is he? Where it
is popular. Valentin. What? What have I said? If he is not in the
chamber there? Rosa. Find him! Valentin (look inside). Where is
he? (Heftiger.) Where is he? Rosa. What is going on at me? What I worry
about because foreign Leut? Valentin. Leut stranger? Hast thou not spoken
with him? Rosa (unwillingly).

Ah what! Valentin. What is there done? Children! If all her. (Liese.
Hans. Hiesel.

Michael, who leads the Pepi.) Valentin. Where is the gracious Lord?
Liese (embarrassed). Yes, I - Rosa (pertly). Well, what stocks? Fort
he is. Ists What next? Valentin.

Fort is he? Because what is he continuing? When he continued, how he
is continuing? At what clock he continue? Liesenfeld. Yes, the mother
- Valentin. Published it! Rosa. Nu sags only! What you fear then?
Liesenfeld. The mother has to him gsagt: You keep him in the house.
Hansel (weeping). And the father make things louder so stupid.
Valentin. That you have said? Hiesel. Top fortgelaufen and he has
cried. Valentin (breaks into an ironic laugh from). Ha! ha! (clapped
their hands.) Rosa. Nu what its for things? Valentin. Still
is! Children who go beyond. Rosa. Why not - Valentin. Still is -
sit down there! Rosa. You! - Valentin (pushing it on the chair).
Low-sit! Children who go beyond. (The kids are going to sell.) Hansel
(the departure). No, in our house was approaching, that's terrible.
(Ab) Rosa (jumps up). Now what solls be? Valentin. Only patience!
I do not shame before the children want, how you understand me! What
is you now prefer? Wilt thou merciful Lord in my house to keep, or I
go continue. Rosa. What? What do you want for stories begin, because
a foreign people?

Valentin. Is it strange to you? I am not! One man, thanks I'm guilty,
I can not be alien. Rosa. You're father. You have to look at your
children. Valentin. He is also my child, I've adopted him. Rosa. Nu
is a young child. Valentin. Yes, you are so young as he is not, for
you the amount you, as if you're four years old.

Rosa. In short: I am sorry it is not in the house. Valentin. You
do not suffer? Children! enters. (All Children). All children.
What orders the father? Valentin. Get dressed, you go with me Hiesel.
Where as, father? Valentin. The werds already seen. On the loop we did
not go. Take everything. Your studies. The name Büchel. The entire
library. The plane. The whole work stuff. Everything! Rosa. Ah, yes
that is me not even occurred! Valentin. Gelt? Oh, there are
things of which our philosophy is not dreaming. Hansel. But today
takes the father, which is gscheidt. Rosa (lift your hands to the
side). You want the children out of the house take? Valentin. I
am the cause that they have come into the house, therefore I can s'
from the house take. Liesenfeld. But father, what should be for that?
That would be quite appalling. Valentin (to Liesenfeld). Will you
stay with your mother? Liesenfeld. Yes, it is my duty. Valentin.
So go to it! (Liese goes out.) Boys who go forth to me! (The boys
come to his side.) These are the pillars of my kingdom. The
belong to me. Get ready! (The boys take it all.) Hiesel. What
should I still take?

       Valentin. The circle, round guy.

Rosa. He makes really serious. That would have my life is not believed.
Liesenfeld. Dear mother, give the mother's. Valentin. So now is
the finished extract. Now give eight. Now, I command: Rechtsum revert
you, march! (Will Forte.) Rosa (remorseful after calling him).
You man! Stop! Valentin. Whats? Rosa. I must tell you one more thing!
Valentin (for themselves). Aha! now catch the sub-plots. (Laut.)
Only short! I say the same. Rosa (softly).

Let the children hinausgehn. Valentin. Children, go outside! Liese (for
themselves). Nu Thank God! Hansel. It seems to me that the mother gives
it to. Yes, when men once we start, because it must stop or go.
(The children.) Valentin. So what do you want now?

Rosa (good-natured). Review, but überleg dirs, you will convince you,
I did right. Valentin. Still is, I say. Or I'll call the children
inside. Rosa. So leave it outside.

Yes you rip too much shoe, if they are always out and run again.
Valentin. The advantage of everything you nothing. Aut Aut! Or, either
- Rosa. Well, I want me one.

Valentin. Nothing superior. Today he still in the house, and a meal
must be prepared that the whole mankind's hands over the head
should beat. Rosa. Nu me ists recht! But he does not deserve to us.
Valentin. What say? He deserves not?

Who is to blame, that we shall live together peacefully? The fact that
I have to be masters and Häusel've since built, when the two hundred
ducats, which I then gradually shifted from him to give gekriegt hab.
Who have we owe to our bissel? Rosa. I was never like it. Valentin.
Is not it! The valet brought you only verschwärzt with him. Otherwise
we would be still in his house. Rosa. Yes if it one would have. Valentin.
Yes way. Since I've completely forgotten it. Rosa. He took me down at
every opportunity. Once, he even proposed a whole society said
- Valentin. What did he say? Rosa. This I say not. Valentin. Go, tell
me, dear old woman. Go! Who knows ists true? Rosa. Yes, it is
also not true. He said: I am mature. Valentin. He gsagt? And did you
last twenty years have noticed. Rosa. Oh, forget something a woman never
room. Valentin. Nu, the need to forgive him stop. My heavens! A young
man.

He was holding a loud so had skewed views.

Then ists also not true. You're built like an Egyptian pyramid. Who can
for you in your form a bit to say? That would be a really first class
defamation. Rosa. Nu, believe me. Valentin. Gelt, Old, yes, we keep
him in the house. You'll see it, I will be quite busy working. It Schadt
us nothing. On the contrary, 's me everything is better out of hand.
Rosa (after a brief struggle). Nu my sake. So because his solls. Valentin
(jumps for joy). Rosel Bravo! das hab ich auch von dir expected. I would
not leave you, although I wär heut fortgegangen. Oh! tomorrow night
I would have come back home. Now, however, is everything in order.
Children! enters the last time (all children.) children, submit everything
again. We prefer not enough. I did as a housewife with a new contract
completed.'s Father and mother are reconciled. The gracious Lord comes
into the house. Children (all joyfully). This is Gscheid! this is
Gscheid! Valentin. Drum is running, what you can. No man may
stay at home. I take the little boys with. (He takes Pepi on the
arm.) Goes to all neighbors. Ask if they have not seen him. They will
help you search. And if ye find him, it brings him. Rosa. The man is
foolish before louder joys. Children. Bravo! fun to go now. (Ab)
Hansel.

Father, leave the father to me. If I pack it to me, he never made.
(Geht ab proud.) Valentin.

The boy may again become a great man, if he so fortwachst. Wife, now
come! You have a lot to me gmacht annoyances today, but now
everything is forgiven thee. No man is without fault, when a just the
right time the button is rising. Who knows, WERS vergilt yet, and I
think I stop if I even quite old, I would like but other memories
recorded, than that I've glued Stuhlfuß and a Schubladkasten made.
Now come! (Both from.) Tenth appearance Verwandlung The ruins of the
ancient castle Flottwell. Zerfallne chambers and towers, built on
rocks, are right. Links the prospect, almost on the level of Schloßberg
on ulterior conterpart mountains, behind which the sun goes down.
Flottwell in despair. Climbs over the rocks, as he would from the valley.
Flottwell. I'm up! I have reached the last level, which in this world
for me was yet to climb. I stand on my ancestors birthplace and
grave, Flott On Mr. Wells old noble palace.

We are also having disastrous. Had I not leave thee, And you would I
do. Too late! (Throws his hat and Bettelstab itself.) Rotting, Bettelstab!
My misery needs now not supported anymore.

I never go back to your world, my crimes Because I conclude from the
realm of self-made. I Versündigt at the majesty of gold. I did not
consider that this metal is a rule appropriated, before I would
tremble, because it is cunning with which bewundrungswürdig is The
Noble himself drawn into his circle.

Who feels happily, once by Wohltun A doctor of mankind, and which it
now fails because it Güldene medicinal Gebricht, making the sick world
recovers.

I stood on this beneficent full height, I could erfreun elsewhere lucky
if my freudenleer own bosom was.

I've got myself from this heilgen fallen throne. This Einzge ists what
I rightly should Mourning, nothing else. For children ridicule, of the
commonwealth To Hohngelächter Shall never a rabble Edler will,
so take out my life, whose heart rate was honored. I could plunge into
the abyss that, but no!

Flott Wells of the last head, it does not bow so deeply. My life is
still einzge The Good, the waste left me, By now I just want to be
frugal, the hungry will slowly kill me here. For criminal, because
I have the thankless world Too much fattened hab. O Death, thou art
einzger My consolation. I have no friend so - (A stone differs back,
and the beggar without a hat and rod stands before him, speaks.)

Beggars. As me! Flottwell (appalled). As whom? Ha! terrible shape, the
last twenty years I never seen And I'm now on my first recognizable
Because my time on the same stage and I like you in every respect
Bejammernswert now and am miserable. Woe to me! Now me is clear, you
should me a show full picture of the warning. Beggars. This was my
purpose.
And
then, of course, Dallona and this Assassin of hers ran off somewhere
together, so that we'd be blamed with discarnating or abducting them,
and so that they wouldn't be made to testify about the communication
on a lie detector."

A sudden happy smile touched Verkan Vall's eyes. He caught each of his
Assassins by an arm.

"Marnik, cover my back," he ordered. "Olirzon, cover everybody at the
table. Come on!"

Then he stepped forward, halting between the chairs of the young man
and the man with the gray hair and facing the beefy man in the light
tunic.

"You!" he barked. "I mean YOU."

The beefy man stopped laughing and stared at him; then sprang to his
feet. His hand, streaking toward his left armpit, stopped and dropped
to his side as Olirzon aimed a pistol at him. The others sat
motionless.

"You," Verkan Vall continued, "are a complete, deliberate, malicious,
and unmitigated liar. The Lady Dallona of Hadron is a scientist of
integrity, incapable of falsifying her experimental work. What's more,
her father is one of my best friends; in his name, and in hers, I
demand a full retraction of the slanderous statements you have just
made."

"Do you know who I am?" the beefy one shouted.

"I know _what_ you are," Verkan Vall shouted back. Like most ancient
languages, the Akor-Neb speech included an elaborate, delicately-shaded,
and utterly vile vocabulary of abuse; Verkan Vall culled from it
judiciously and at length. "And if I don't make myself understood verbally,
we'll go down to the object level," he added, snatching a bowl of soup from
in front of the monkish-looking young man and throwing it across the table.

The soup was a dark brown, almost black. It contained bits of meat,
and mushrooms, and slices of hard-boiled egg, and yellow Martian rock
lichen. It produced, on the light tunic, a most spectacular effect.

For a moment, Verkan Vall was afraid the fellow would have an
apoplectic stroke, or an epileptic fit. Mastering himself, however, he
bowed jerkily.

"Marnark of Bashad," he identified himself. "When and where can my
friends consult yours?"

"Lord Virzal of Verkan," the paratimer bowed back. "Your friends can
negotiate with mine here and now. I am represented by these
Gentlemen-Assassins."

"I won't submit my friends to the indignity of negotiating with them,"
Marnark retorted. "I insist that you be represented by persons of your
own quality and mine."

"Oh, you do?" Olirzon broke in. "Well, is your objection personal to
me, or to Assassins as a class? In the first case, I'll remember to
make a private project of you, as soon as I'm through with my present
employment; if it's the latter, I'll report your attitude to the
Society. I'll see what Klarnood, our President-General, thinks of your
views."

A crowd had begun to accumulate around the table. Prince John, your
son kisses your royal hands; Mowbray, the Bishop Scroop, Hastings
and the rest of the Streamline your Geseze learn not only stir up
Schwerdt is more exposed, and the peace is pushing its olives
everywhere apparent.

The manner and the whole context of the circumstances of how all this
happened, your majesty deign to beßrer this relationship must
consist of subjects.

(He übergiebt a paper.) King Henry.
He bowed
contemptuously at Marnark of Bashad.

"Klarnood, President-General of the Society of Assassins," he
announced. "Marnark of Bashad, did I hear you say that you considered
members of the Society as unworthy to negotiate an affair of honor
with your friends, on behalf of this nobleman who has been courteous
enough to accept your challenge?" he demanded.

Marnark of Bashad's arrogance suffered considerable evaporation-loss.
His tone became almost servile.

"Not at all, Honorable Assassin-President," he protested. "But as I
was going to ask these gentlemen to represent me, I thought it would
be more fitting for the other gentleman to be represented by personal
friends, also. In that way--"

"Sorry, Marnark," the gray-haired man at the table said. "I can't
second you; I have a quarrel with the Lord Virzal, too." He rose and
bowed. "Sirzob of Abo. Inasmuch as the Honorable Marnark is a guest at
my table, an affront to him is an affront to me. In my quality as his
host, I must demand satisfaction from you, Lord Virzal."

"Why, gladly, Honorable Sirzob," Verkan Vall replied. This was getting
better and better every moment. "Of course, your friend, the Honorable
Marnark, enjoys priority of challenge; I'll take care of you as soon
as I have, shall we say, satisfied, him."

And then it was November, the cold i mui grande, i nofotros such, with
little difficulty that we could count the huefos, eftabamos facts
contained propria of Death.

For me to say that defde the month of May pafado, I do not eat other
Havi COFA fine corn Toft, i sometimes necefidad saw me eating it
raw, but because faith killed Horses, meanwhile Barcas faith towards
that, I never I could eat them, i was not ten times I ate PEFC.

Efto say, for efcufar raçones because each WNV can see, what these
eftariamos. And all this fobre, Havi fobrevenido Wind North,
strong, eftabamos more about death than life to Nueftro pleased God
that he bufcando the Ticon-fire, there Havi fact, we found a
fire that did major Fires i Nueftro host eftuvimos asking Mr
mifericordia i nueftros forgiveness of sins, shedding many tears,
each haviendo WNV laftima not folo whether, over all others, that
the mifmo eftado vian.

And when the sun puefto, the Indians, we do not creiendo ido Havi, we
bolvieron à bufcar, i bring to eat: but when they saw us as hosts in
different rooms of the first, so i eftraña, both efpantaronfe that
faith bolvieron back.

Fali me to, i call them, i came efpantados mui, hicelos
understand feñas as faith we sunk Havi VNA Barca, i faith Havi drowned
three nofotros i alli Preferences in fu, they mifmos saw two deaths,
which i stayed behind, we were going that way.

Indians see the defaftre we come Havi and defaftre that eftabamos,
so defventura, i fent miferia faith among nofotros i with great
pain, i laftima that ovieron fortune of being in so much, I began
to mourn all Recio , so i really, that there lexos of faith could
hear, i efto they lasted over half an hour: I certainly see that
eftos Men, so order raçon, i so raw, like Gross, both of faith dolia
nofotros, HiCo to me, i in the company of other crefciefe plus
pafion i confideracion of the nueftra defdicha.

Sofegado ia Efte crying, I asked the Chriftianos i dixe that fi
parefcia them, I would urge those Indians, who llevafen fus à Cafas:
i some of them, Havi eftado in New Efpaña, refpondieron, not faith
should speak on it because we Cafas fus fi led us to facrificarian
fus Idol: More vifto Havi that no other remedy, than i any other
way eftaba closer, i some more death, no cure for what they said
before begged the Indians, who llevafen fus à Cafas i moftraron
them that Havi pleasure of it, i vn efperafemos that little, they
would do what we wanted, then i thirty of them laden with firewood
faith, i faith were fus à Cafas that eftaban lexos of there, i
stayed with the other hafta close the night, we took, I carry aphids,
i priefa much, we went to Cafas fus, i by the great cold to, fearing
that i not in any way muriefe or defmaiafe, Provo, oviefe that four
or five large fires mui, pueftos places, i WNV in each of them we
efcalentaban: i defque vian Havi taken any force that i heat, we
wore hafta the other, so apriefa that CAFI feet do not give us the
fuel dexaban i EFTA way we hafta fus Cafas, where we found they had
made to VNA Cafa nofotros, many fires in it i: i defde à vn hour
Havi arrived, I started to dance, i make big fiefta (which lasted
all night) but not for nofotros Havi pleasure fiefta or source,
when we efperando of Havi facrificar, i am about to give us PEFCO
Estate i, i do very good treatment, we afeguramos something, i just
lost the fear of facrificio.

_CAP. XIII. Fupimos as Chriftianos._ Efte mifmo other day I saw
those indus vn vn Refcate, i was not conofcì which Havi nofotros them
because i was wondering where Havi havido, refpondieron them feñas
me that faith is Havi Men like nofotros other since that eftaban
back.

I see efto, Embi Chriftianos two, and two Indians, who moftrafen those
people, i mui nearly ran into them there, who also came to bufcarnos
because the Indians that there were, the joy of Havi nofotros, i
was eftos Captains Dorantes Andrès and Alonfo of Caftillo, with all
the people of Barca fu.

"Certainly not," Verkan Vall vetoed. "We'll fight here and now; I
don't propose going a couple of hundred miles to meet you at any such
unholy hour. We'll fight in the nearest hallway that provides twenty
meters' shooting distance."

Marnark, Sirzob and Yirzol all clamored in protest. Verkan Vall
shouted them down, drawing on his hypnotically acquired knowledge of
Akor-Neb duelling customs. "The code explicitly states that
satisfaction shall be rendered as promptly as possible, and I insist
on a literal interpretation. I'm not going to inconvenience myself and
Assassin-President Klarnood and these four Gentlemen-Assassins just to
humor Statisticalist superstitions."

The manager of the hotel, drawn to the Martian Room by the uproar,
offered a hallway connecting the kitchens with the refrigerator rooms;
it was fifty meters long by five in width, was well-lighted and
soundproof, and had a bay in which the seconds and other could stand
during the firing.

I command that tornafe to look more particularly mui, i viefe Havi fi
in it some way, fuefen feguidos, alargarfe i efto so much for the
danger they could haver. He was, i face with VNA sidewalk, her faith
was henceforth hafta efpacio half Legua, i found some vnas Hit
India, eftaban folas because the Indians were gone to camp, i took
them VNA pot, i vn little puppy, i vnas few Liças i afi bolviò à
nofotros faith, faith that i parefciendonos later Embi Chriftianos other
two, so you bufcafen i viefen Havi fufcedido it, i ran them close
to him there, i saw three Indians with bows, arrows i, came after
him, calling him afimifmo i called them feñas: afi i get where
eftabamos i vn Indians were little faith back in mifma Ribera
afentados; graphical à i half an hour came one hundred other Indians
Flecheros, now that they fuefen big or not nueftro fear towards
them parefcer Giants, nofotros i stopped near where the first three
eftaban.

Among nofotros efcufado was penfar that havria who defendiefe
faith, because faith rarely found Feis, which fuel pudiefen faith lift.
The Veedor, i I falimos them; llamamosles i, i came to faith nofotros
them: the best thing i podimos, we seek to afegurarlos, afegurarnos
i, i dimosles Auditors Cafcaveles i, i each of them gave me WNV VNA
Arrow, which is feñal of amiftad: i feñas by us dixeron which bolverian
the morning, i would eat us, because we had not.

_CAP. XII. As we Indians truxeron of comer._ other day, faliendo the
Sun, it was time that we Indians Havi said, came to nofotros, Havi
as promised, we traxeron much PEFC i, i vnas of roots, which they eat
i fon like nuts, some bigger, or smaller, the greater part of them faith
facan debaxo Water, and with hard work. In the afternoon bolvieron i
traxeron us more PEFCO i from mifmas Estate, i did come fus Mugeres
i Sons, for which we viefen i host faith bolvieron rich Cafcaveles
i accounts, we gave them, other days i us vifitar around, so mifmo
that eftotras times.

As nofotros viam, which provided for eftabamos PEFCO Root i, i water,
i cofas that of the other call, agreed to ship around, i feguir nueftro
way, i defenterramos la Barca de la Arena, which eftaba involved, i
was menefter, we defnudafemos all, i pafafemos great cast to work for
water, because nofotros eftabamos such other cofas mui BAFT to get more
light in; afi i loaded two rounds into the Sea Ballefta us gave such a
blow of water, which wet us all: how we were going defnudos i, i
was the cold that made mui grande, Remos folto the hands of i another
blow to the Sea gave us, traftornò la Barca: the suppliers, i afieron
two other faith efcaparfe for it, but fufcediò mui conversely, Barca
took the debaxo i drowned faith.

All
three were nearly enough alike--small weapons, rather heavier than
they looked, firing a tiny ten-grain bullet at ten thousand
foot-seconds. On impact, such a bullet would almost disintegrate; a
man hit anywhere in the body with one would be killed instantly, his
nervous system paralyzed and his heart stopped by internal pressure.
Mugeres fon for the hard work.

The room that makes EFTA Island is defde October, in order to Hebrero
hafta. The future is keeping the roots that I said, facadas Water
debaxo by November i December.

Channels, i have no more fish for Efte time AI ahead eat the roots.
In order to go to other parts Hebrero à bufcar that mantenerfe,
because then the roots begin to NAFC, i fon no good.

People of the world is that most children love fus, i make them
better treatment: when i acaefce have any faith that he killed the
Son lloranle Parents, relatives i, i all the people, crying hard i
vn Year fulfilled, that every day in the morning, before dawn, start
first to mourn the Fathers, after i efto the People: i do efto mifmo
at noon, when amanefce i: i pafado a year who have cried, the hacenle
honor the dead, lavanfe i, i limpianfe of bringing smut.

All EFTA Defuntos cry way, the old Falvo, who do not CAFOs, because they
say that i have pafado future time, from any of them i ai, before
occupying the earth, i removed the maintenance of children. Coftumbre
are burying the dead, the thin fon fon Fificos between them, which
eftos quemanlos i while the fire burns all eftàn dancing, great
fiefta mui i doing, i do the huefos powders: i pafado vn Year,
when fus faith do honor all jafan faith in them, i give to the
relatives of those powders the drink huefos Water. Each VNA VNA has
Muger conofcida.

The fon Fificos men more freedom, you can have two, three i, i eftas
between ai mui amiftad great, i line.

When it comes to any future CAFA Daughter, which takes as Muger,
graphical day that her faith CAFA, caçando kill everything, or PEFC,
brings everything to the CAFA Muger fu of the Father, so ofar take
or eat any of it COFA, i of the Father-in-law of CAFA will take him
to eat i Efte time around the mother in law Mother-in-law or not
within CAFA fu, has neither the entering of CAFA-Laws, or brothers:
i fi Acaf faith encounter somewhere, faith defvian vn Ballefta WNV
shot the other, i mean that afi apartandofe van, carrying the head
Baxa, i pueftos eye on land, because they are bad for COFA verfe
or hablarfe.

The Mugeres are free to communicate with converfar i-Laws, Relatives
i i EFTA coftumbre faith has defde Island, hafta more than fifty
miles inside the earth.

Coftumbre Another ai, i is, that when any child, or brother dies in
CAFA muriere where three mefes not bufcan eat before faith dexan
starving, i relatives, i Neighbors provide what they eat. And
in the time that so many people died here eftuvimos of them in
the most Cafas Havi mui great hunger, save fu coftumbre also, i
ceremony i bufcaban those who, for many who work for the time so fer
Recio, could do just fine mui i EFTA caufa by the Indians that I had
faith falieron of the island, i vnas in Canoas faith pafaron
to-earth firm vnas Baìas, where many Hoftiones Tenti i not three
mefes Year COFA other comments, i mui drink bad water.

Have a great lack of firewood, i mui grande Mofquitos abundance.
Cafas Its built-in fon Efter, fobre many of Hoftiones CAFC, i fobre
they sleep encueros, i do not have thinner Acaf; afi i hafta
eftuvimos in April so that Cofta went to the sea, do Moras ate
carcasses of the month, in the qual cefan do not Areito fus, i
fieftas.

_CAP. XV.
Understand?"

"Oh, yes, Honorable Assassin-President; you may trust me. The Lord
Virzal will be perfectly safe."

In Verkan Vall's suite, above, Klarnood sat down and got out his pipe,
filling it with tobacco lightly mixed with _zerfa_. To his surprise,
he saw his host light a plain tobacco cigarette.

"Don't you use _zerfa_?" he asked.

"Very little," Verkan Vall replied. "I grow it. If you'd see the bums
who hang around our drying sheds, on Venus, cadging rejected leaves
and smoking themselves into a stupor, you'd be frugal in using it,
too."

Klarnood nodded. "You know, most men would want a pipe of fifty
percent, or a straight _zerfa_ cigarette, after what you've been
through," he said.

"I'd need something like that, to deaden my conscience, if I had one
to deaden," Verkan Vall said. "As it is, I feel like a murderer of
babes. That overgrown fool, Marnark, handled his knife like a
cow-butcher. The young fellow couldn't handle a pistol at all. I
suppose the old fellow, Sirzob, was a fair shot, but dropping him
wasn't any great feat of arms, either."

Klarnood looked at him curiously for a moment. "You know," he said, at
length, "I believe you actually mean that. Well, until he met you,
Marnark of Bashad was rated as the best knife-fighter in Darsh. Sirzob
had ten dueling victories to his credit, and young Yirzol four." He
puffed slowly on his pipe. "I like you, Lord Virzal; a great Assassin
was lost when you decided to reincarnate as a Venusian land-owner. I'd
hate to see you discarnated without proper warning. I take it you're
ignorant of the intricacies of Terran politics?"

"To a large extent, yes."

"Well, do you know who those three men were?" The education of the
human race Gotthold Ephraim Lessing haec omnia inde quibusdam esse
vera, unde sunt in quibusdam Falsa. Augustine. Herausgegeben von
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing Berlin, 1780 Preliminary Report of the
publisher. I did the first half of this essay in my Beyträgen
advertised. Itzt I am able to follow the rest of it. The author
has a question on a hill, of which he little more than the prescribed
path of his day, believed to be overlooked. But he calls eilfertigen
no hikers, the only camp for the night soon hopes to achieve from its
path. It does not require that the prospect that it entzücket, including
any need to delight the eye. And so, I dächte, you could probably
stand him and wonder, where he is and amazed!

If he made the immense distance that a Abendroth his gentle gaze
neither completely veiled quite discovered yet, and now even a clue
brought to the many times I have been embarrassed, I Meyn this .--
Why do we want in all the positive religions not prefer nothing
more than to see motion, after which the the human mind every place
solely to develop, and even further develop, as the same, either
through a smile, or angry?

This our scorn, our displeasure that deserved the best in the world
nothing: and only the religions should earn him? God had his hand in
the games Bey: Bey only our Irrthümern not? §. 1st What education Bey
the people individually, is the revelation Bey the whole human
race. §. 2nd Education is revelation to the people individually
happens: revelation is education and the human race has happened and
still happens. §. 3rd Whether the education from this point of view
in which education can have benefits, I will not investigate. But
in theology it is certainly very great benefit, and raise many
difficulties, if you look at the revelation as an education of the
human race vorstellet. §. 4th Education giebt the people nothing,
not even what he made himself could have: they giebt him that which
he himself could have just quickly and easily. So giebt also the
revelation of the human sex is not what the human reason, left to
themselves, would not come: but she gave him and giebt the most
important of these things only once. § 5 And as education is not
indifferent in what order they are the forces of human development,
as the people do not teach everything at once can just as also God's
revelation Bey a certain order, a certain Maaß must hold. §. 6th
If the first man with a some words from a God now has been equipped
so that it could mitgetheilte, and not acquired concept, impossible
long in his faith there.

Once it the self-licensed human reason began to edit, cut it only in
the immense more discretion, and gave each of these Theile to add
a bookmark. §. 7th Thus a natural way Vielgötterey and Abgötterey.

And who knows how many millions of years, the human reason in
this unsuccessful search paths would have herumgetrieben; ohngeachtet
everywhere and at all times, individuals have realized that there
were unsuccessful search paths: if God did not like would have it by
a new blow a better direction to give. §. Because he is 8th of any
single people could not reveal, nor wanted to so he chose a single
nation to its special education, and that is ungeschliffenste, the
feral, to see him start from scratch to be able to. §. 9th Dießen was
the Israelite people, from what you do not even know what it means
for a church service in Egypt had.

Because of the worship of Aegypti were so despised Theil not take
slaves: and the God of his fathers, he has become completely
unknown. §. 10th Perhaps that Aegypti him all God, all gods had
expressly forbidden it in the faith had fallen, there was no God,
no gods, god, gods have sey only a prerogative of the better Aegypti:
and, to see it with so much größerm appearance of fairness tyrannisiren
to be Christians .-- Make it with their slaves yet itzt much
different?

- §. The 11th nation so raw was initially just as God the God of
his fathers announce it just started with the idea of a God, even his
well-known and trusted to make. §. 12th Through the wonders with
which he led from Egypt and in Canaan, has testified he immediately
pointed to him as a god, the mighty sey, than any else God. §. 13.

And he continued to him as the most powerful of all to witness - which
is just a Seyn can - he is accustomed to the gradual notions of
some. §. 14th But how far was this notion of some, even among the true
terms of the Transcendental One, what the reason so late only from
the terms of the infinite with certainty conclude learn! §. 15th to the
terms of Some true - if it even the better of the people more or less
close - could be long but the people do not rise: and this was the only
real reason why it is so often his God left some and the One, di
powerful, in any other god of another people believed to be found. §.
16th A people but that is so raw, so clumsily to abgezognen idea
was still so completely in his childhood was what it was capable of
a moral upbringing? None other than the age of the childhood equivalent.
The education through direct sensual punishments and rewards. §.
17th Again So take education and revelation together.

Even God has his people no other religion, no law otherwise provide,
as one by whose observation or non observation here on earth is happy
or unhappy to be hoped or feared.

Because more than this life was not yet his eyes.

He knew of no immortality of the soul, it longed for no future life. Him
but now these things to reveal what his reason has grown so little
was: what would it have been otherwise Bey God Seyn than the errors
of eiteln educators who prefer übereilen his child with him and brag
as thoroughly inform wants. § . 18th Solo what, you ask, this
upbringing of such a crude people, a people with what God really
had to start from scratch?

I answer: in the wake of the individual members of that time so much
safer to educators of all other nations need to be able to.

He trained him in the future educators of the human race. The
Jews were the only Jews could be, just as men from an educated people.
§. For further 19th. When the child blows and cuddled up for years
and now of the mind came, it was the father at once the stranger,
and here it is at once recognized the good that exists in his father's
home and had not realized. §. 20th During that God's chosen people
through all the seasons of a childish upbringing led: were the other
peoples of the ground Bey the light of reason their way fortgegangen.
Most of that was far behind the chosen people left behind only some
were pre-empted him.

And this happens Bey children that you can grow for many remain quite
raw, some of formed itself to the surprise §. 21st How these
fortunate few but nothing against the benefits and education
necessarily prove as evidence of the few pagan peoples, even in the
knowledge of God before the chosen people until itzt a lead seemed
to have nothing against the revelation.

The Child of Education begins with slow, but steps to secure it hohlt
much happier child of nature organisirte late, but it hohlt it, and is
then never catch him again. §. 22nd In the same way. That, - the
doctrine of the unity of God Bey side, which in the books of the Old
Testament is found, and not found - that, I say, at least the doctrine
of the immortality of the soul, and the related doctrine of punishment
and reward in a future life, so completely alien: beweiset just as much
against the divine origin of these books.

       It can ohngeachtet contained in them with all the wonders and its
Prophezeyungen have good accuracy.

Because let's put those lessons would be missed not only in them, those
lessons would also not even true, let us, it really would be for the
people in this life all: would be about the existence of God proved
less? it would be less a matter of God frey, it would befit Gotte
less, the temporal fates of some people from this transitory
directly to gender? The miracle, which he for the Jews that the
Prophezeyungen, he had to record it, were not just for the few mortal
Jews, for their times they occurred and were recorded: he had his
intentions so that the entire Jewish people, to the whole human race,
here on earth maybe will last forever, even if every single Jew,
each man then dies for ever. §.

Again 23rd. The lack of those teachings in the scriptures of the Old
Testament beweiset resist their divinity nothing. But Moses was
sent by God, even though the sanction of his law only extended to
this life. After all, why continue? It was just to the Israelite people,
then to the Jewish people to all: and his job was the knowledge,
skills, the slopes of the former Israelite people, as well as
determining the future, entirely appropriate. That is enough. §. 24th
So far Warburton would only have to go and no further. But the learned
man extravagant bow.

Not satisfied that the lack of those doctrines of divine mission
Mosis no shame: he should show him the divine Mosis even prove. And
if this evidence he nor the decency of such a law for such a
referendum would have to keep looking!

But he took his refuge in one of Moses to Christ uninterruptedly
fortdaurenden miracle by which God Jews each one individually just
as happy or unhappy, so it's obedience or disobedience to the law
deserved.

This miracle was the lack of those teachings, without which no state
could exist, replaced, and such a substitution just proves what that
deficiency, at first sight, seemed to deny. §. 25th How good it
was, Warburton that this ongoing miracle, in which he essentials
of the Israelite theocracy sat through substantiate nothing, nothing
probably could.

    Because he had skillfully; verily - alsdenn only if he had made the
difficulty inextricably .-- .-- For me at least what the divinity
of the consignment Mosis restore should be on the thing itself have
made doubtful, although God did not mittheilen, but it certainly
does not want to aggravate. §. 26th I agree to the contrary picture
of Revelation.

    An elementary book for children, may well do this or
    that important piece of science or art, which it maintains,
    go on in silence, from which the urtheilte educators that
    the skills of the children, for which he wrote, not yet adequately
    sey.

                                                        But it may contain nothing but bad about the children the way to
the major pieces zurückbehaltnen obstruct or publisher.

    Rather, they all have the same access to care be left open:
    and it is only one of these approaches derive, or cause
    that they later enter the same, would alone the incompleteness of
the book to an elementary essentially make the same mistake. § 27th
So also were in the writings of the Old Testament, in these elementary
books for the raw and inexperienced in thinking Jewish people, the
doctrine of the immortality of the soul and future retribution even
probably lack: but they could contain bad but nothing that the
people for which they were written , on the way to this great truth
would have only delayed.

                                                        And what would have little to say, more so late, as if those wonderful
retribution in this life in them would be promised, and which would
have been promised that no promises, not what he believes?

§. 28th, because if even from the unequal Austheilung the goods of this
life, Bey of virtue and vice as little taken Seyn seems to be, just not
the most rigorous proof of the immortality of the soul and for
a different life in which those nodes dissolve to lead: it is surely
certain that the human mind without a node that does not - and maybe
never - for better and stronger evidence would come.

Because what should drive it, they better be looking for evidence?
The mere curiosity? §. 29 and the Israelite freylich probably liked
the divine promises and threats that affect the entire state
based on each individual link in the same range, and in the firm
belief is that those who piously sey Seyn should also happy, and
who unhappily sey or will the punishment of his Missethat wear,
which is now back in blessing traffics when he desist from his
Missethat .-- Such Hiob seems to have written, for the same plan
is in this spirit .-- §.

But 30th was impossible for the everyday experience confirm this
belief: or it was always Bey the people that this experience was always
on the detection and recording of him ungeläufigen truth happened.

For if the pious poor but happy, and his fortunes seemed also
belonged to its satisfaction that no terrible thoughts of death
interrupted that he old and lebenssatt died: how could he, after
another long life?

As he could about something to think wornach he longed not? But if
the pious not thought about who should it? The bad guy? the
punishment of his Missethat felt, and when he cursed in this life, so
like any other life on waiver that? §. 31. Far less verschlug the fact
that the Israelite and that the immortality of the soul and future
retribution, because the law is not concerned, just and expressly
denied.

The denial of an individual - it was also a Solomon - considered the
progress of the commonwealth not to mind, and was in and of itself
is a proof that the people now is a big step closer to the truth
had come.

For individuals only deny what Multiple reflection in drag, and
drag into consideration, why you have previously not at all
distressed, is half way to knowledge. §. 32nd Let us also confess
that it is a heroic obedience, observe the laws of God, just
because it's God's laws are and not because he is the observer
that here and there to reward promised they watch, whether you're
at the future reward quite desperate, and the time not so certainly
is. §. 33rd A people in this heroic obedience to God brought up,
it should not be determined, it should not, above all others capable
Seyn, special divine intentions run - let the soldiers of his blind
obedience officer makes, and now also by the wisdom of his leader
to be convinced, and says, what this guide does not execute him
under may - §. 34th still had the Jewish people in his Jehovah the
more powerful, than the wisest of all gods, it still had him as a
zealous God more feared than loved: even at this evidence that the
concepts that distinguish it from some of its highest God had, not
just the right words were that we have from God.

But now was the time since that its terms extended, refined,
berichtiget should be, what God is of a very natural means of
serving; Maaßstabes a better right, after which he got an opportunity
to appreciate. §. 35th instead of him so far that it is only against
the idols of the wretched little unbleached neighboring nations had
protected, what is lived in constant jealousy: it began in captivity
under the wise Persians to him against the very essence of all
beings to measure how the experienced a sense recognized and
venerated. §. 36 The revelation had led his reason, and now brightened
at once the reason his revelation. §. , 37, was the first mutual
service that beyde successively performed, and the author is such
a beyder mutual influence as little indecent that without him one
of beyden Seyn would be superfluous. §. 38 The stranger in the
clever child sahe other children who knew more, and decent living,
and wondered with shame: why I do not know too?

why I do not live so well? Had in my father's house so I do not even
teach, which I do not even stop it? As it searches its elementary
books again, which he has long been a disgust to the debt on the books
to elementary slide. But see! erkennet it that the blame is not on
the books is that the debt is merely his own sey, why it is not just
the long knew just as alive. §. 39th As the Jews now, at the behest
of the pure Persian doctrine, in their Jehovah not only the greatest
of all national gods, but God saw, because it considers it as such
in their back hervorgesuchten Scriptures in order to find more and
others were able to show, when he Therein really was, because they
all the same sensual performances a level so great disgust testified,
or is in these writings to have been instructed, just as the Persians
had always: what wonder that they are before the eyes of Cyrus with
a grace worship found that he is still well below the pure Sabeismus,
but also far beyond the rough Abgöttereyen Seyn to recognize those
who might be verlaßnen of the country of the Jews had bemächtiget?

§. Sun 40th enlightened about their own unrecognized treasures they came
back and were a very andres people whose first concern was, that
enlightenment among themselves permanently to make.

Soon, to waste and Abgötterey under him not to think.

Because you can set a National God probably be unfaithful, but never
God, so soon once it has detected. §. 41 The God scholars have complete
change of the Jewish people variously sought to explain, and one
of the inadequacy of all these different explanations are well demonstrated,
finally wanted to "the apparent fulfillment of the Babylonian captivity
and the restoration of the same ausgesprochnen and aufgeschriebnen
prophecies, "the true cause of that state.

But even these can cause so far only in the true Seyn than they are now
only foiled notions of God requires.

The Jews had only now have realized that miracles Thun and predict the
future, only God to give, what else they beydes the false idols
beygeleget had thus miracles and prophecies as only such a weak,
fleeting impression they had made. §. 42nd Without doubt the Jews
were among the Persians Chaldaeans and also with the doctrine of
the immortality of the soul has become known.

Confidant with her, they were in the schools of the Greek philosophers
in Egypt. §. 43rd But with this because it is teaching, in view of
their holy scriptures, the Bewandniß not had it with the doctrine of
the unity of God and the properties had, since that of the sensuous
people was a matter has been grossly overlooked, but sought Seyn
wanted, since it still had Nöthiger preliminary, and therefore,
only innuendo and finger pointing instead had had: it was the belief
in the immortality of the soul naturally never the faith of the
entire people are.

He was and remained the only belief that a certain sect. §. 44th A
preliminary to the doctrine of the immortality of the soul, I call
for the divine E. threat to Missethat of the father to his children
to the third and fourth link to punish.

Diess habituated to the idea of fathers with their latest offspring to
live, and the unhappiness which they placed on these innocent people
had to feel ahead. §. 45th An allusion to mention I was just excited
the curiosity and a matter should proceed. As the saying often occurring
to his fathers versammlet, for dying. §. 46th I call a clue what already
contains any germ, from which the still zurückgehaltne truth can
develop. Likewise Christ was from the final designation of God
of Abraham, Isaacs and Jacobs.

This clue seems to me, however, a rigorous proof can be trained. §.

In such 47th over, innuendo, finger point, there is a positive perfection
of elementary book, like the aforementioned property that
it is the way to the still withheld truths are not difficult, or prevent,
the same perfection was negative. §. If so, 48th or the outfitting
and style - 1) the outfitting is not transferred well to abstract
truths in Allegorieen and individual cases are instructive, as erzählet
will really happen.

Likewise, the creation, under the picture of the day become the source
of moral evil, in the narrative of verbotnen Baume, the origin
of many languages in the history of Thurmbaue of Babel, etc. §. 49.
2) the style - simple and planned soon, soon to be poetic, Tavtologieen
quite fully, but those who practice the acumen by soon to say anything
otherwise seem, but the jointly say the soon to say jointly seem
to and in fact mean something else or can mean: - §. 50th and you have
all the qualities of a good elementary book sowol for children
than for an infantile nation. §. 51st But every elementary book
is only for a certain age.

The child him grow longer, than the opinion that dabey to use
is harmful. Because of this order on a einigermaassen only useful
kind thun you need to insert more than a question of lies, it contributed
more than it can hold. One must of innuendo and finger pointing and
too much make the Allegorieen to shake out exactly that Beyspiele
too cumbersome suggest that words strongly pressed.

The giebt the child a petty, crooked, sophisticated intellect,
which makes it geheimnißreich, superstitious, full of contempt
against everything tangible and Light. §. 52 jointly how the rabbis
treated their holy books!

The jointly character, presented to the spirit of its people by
ertheilten!

§. 53rd A bessrer educators must come to the child and the weary
elementary book from the hands tear .-- Christ came. §. The Theil 54th
of the human race to God in an education plan had to be - He had
but only those in a want, by language, through action by government,
by other natural and political conditions in already was connected
-- was the major steps zweyten of Education ripe. §.

The 55th is this Theilhaber of the human race was in the exercise of
his reason so far that he acts on his moral noble, worthy causes
movement required and could need as temporal rewards and punishments
were that had led him so far. The child is boy. Leckerey game and the
burgeoning work differs desire, just as frey, just so honored
just to be as happy as it looks to be older siblings. §. 56. Already
long ago were better from that of the human race Theile usual, by
a shadow of such movement causes edlern govern it.

In order for this life only in the memory of his fellow citizens
fortzuleben, that the Greeks and Romans all
"I and my
colleagues, in the employ of the family of Starpha, have received
orders from our clients to withdraw our protection from you, and to
discarnate you, and all with you who undertake to protect or support
you." That much sounded like a recitation of some established formula;
then his voice became more conversational. "I and my colleagues,
Erarno and Kirzol and Harnif, offer our apologies for the barbarity of
the servants of the family of Starpha, in attacking without
declaration of cessation of friendship. Was anybody hurt or
discarnated?"

"None of us," Olirzon said. "How about Marnik?"

"He was warned before hostilities were begun against him," Sarnax
replied. "We will allow five minutes until--"

Olirzon, who had been looking up the well, suddenly sprang at Dalla,
knocking her flat, and at the same time jerking out his pistol. Before
he could raise it, a shot banged from above and he fell on his face.
Dirzed, Verkan Vall, and Sarnax, all drew their pistols, but whoever
had fired the shot had vanished. There was an outburst of shouting
above.

"Get to cover," Sarnax told the others. "We'll let you know when we're
ready to attack; we'll have to deal with whoever fired that shot,
first." He looked at the dead body on the floor, exclaimed angrily,
and hurried to the ascent tube, springing upward.

Verkan Vall replaced the small pistol in his shoulder holster and took
Olirzon's belt, with his knife and heavier pistol.

"Well, there you see," Dirzed said, as they went back to the gun room.
"So much for political expediency."

"I think I understand why your picture and the Lady Dallona's were
exhibited so widely," Verkan Vall said. "Now, anybody would recognize
your bodies, and blame the Statisticalists for discarnating you."

"That thought had occurred to me, Lord Virzal," Dirzed said. "I
suppose our bodies will be atrociously but not unidentifiably
mutilated, to further enrage the public," he added placidly. "If I get
out of this carnate, I'm going to pay somebody off for it."

After a few minutes, there was more shouting of: "Assassins' Truce!"
from the descent tube. The two Assassins, Erarno and Kirzol, emerged,
dragging the gamekeeper, Tarnod, between them. The upper-servant's
face was bloody, and his jaw seemed to be broken. Sarnax followed,
carrying a long hunting pistol in his hand.

"Here he is!" he announced. "He fired during Assassins' Truce; he's
subject to Assassins' Justice!"

He nodded to the others. They threw the gamekeeper forward on the
floor, and Sarnax shot him through the head, then tossed the pistol
down beside him. "Any more of these people who violate the decencies
will be treated similarly," he promised.

"Thank you, Sarnax," Dirzed spoke up. "But we lost an Assassin:
discarnating this lackey won't equalize that. We think you should
retire one of your number."

"That at least, Dirzed; wait a moment."

The three Assassins conferred at some length. Then Sarnax hooked
fingers and clapped shoulders with his companions.

"See you in the next reincarnation, brothers," he told them, walking
toward the gun-room door, where Verkan Vall, Dalla and Dirzed stood.
"I'm joining you people. You had two Assassins when the parley began,
you'll have two when the shooting starts."

Verkan Vall looked at Dirzed in some surprise. Hadron Dalla's Assassin
nodded.

"He's entitled to do that, Lord Virzal; the Assassins' code provides
for such changes of allegiance."

"Welcome, Sarnax," Verkan Vall said, hooking fingers with him. "I hope
we'll all be together when this is over."

"We will be," Sarnax assured him cheerfully. "Discarnate. We won't get
out of this in the body, Lord Virzal."

A submachine-gun hammered from above, the bullets lashing the fountain
pool; the water actually steamed, so great was their velocity.

"All right!" a voice called down. "Assassins' Truce is over!"

Another burst of automatic fire smashed out the lights at the bottom
of the ascent tube. Dirzed and Dalla struggled across the room,
pushing a heavy steel cabinet between them; Verkan Vall, who was
holding Olirzon's submachine-gun, moved aside to allow them to drop it
on edge in the open doorway, then wedged the door half-shut against
it. Sarnax came over, bringing rifles, hunting pistols, and
ammunition.

"What's the situation, up there?" Verkan Vall asked him. "What force
have they, and why did they turn against us?"

"Lord Virzal!" Dirzed objected, scandalized. "You have no right to ask
Sarnax to betray confidences!"

Sarnax spat against the door. "In the face of Jirzyn of Starpha!" he
said. "And in the face of his _zortan_ mother, and of his father,
whoever he was! Dirzed, do not talk foolishly; one does not speak of
betraying betrayers." He turned to Verkan Vall. "They have three
menservants of the family of Starpha; your Assassin, Olirzon,
discarnated the other three. There is one of Prince Jirzyn's poor
relations, named Girzad. There are three other men, Volitionalist
precinct workers, who came with Girzad, and four Assassins, the three
who were here, and one who came with Girzad. Eleven, against the three
of us."

"The four of us, Sarnax," Dalla corrected. She had buckled on a
hunting pistol, and had a light deer rifle under her arm.

Something moved at the bottom of the descent tube. Verkan Vall gave it
a short burst, though it was probably only a dummy, dropped to draw
fire.

"The four of us, Lady Dallona," Sarnax agreed. "As to your other
Assassin, the one who stayed in the airboat, I don't know how he
fared. You see, about twenty minutes ago, this Girzad arrived in an
airboat, with an Assassin and these three Volitionalist workers.
Erarno and I were at the top of the dome when he came in. He told us
that he had orders from Prince Jirzyn to discarnate the Lady Dallona
and Dirzed at once. Tarnod, the gamekeeper"--Sarnax spat ceremoniously
against the door again--"told him you were here, and that Marnik was
one of your men. He was going to shoot Marnik at once, but Erarno and
I and his Assassin stopped him. We warned Marnik about the change in
the situation, according to the code, expecting Marnik to go down here
and join you. Instead, he lifted the airboat, zoomed over Girzad's
boat, and let go a rocket blast, setting Girzad's boat on fire. Well,
that was a hostile act, so we all fired after him. We must have hit
something, because the boat went down, trailing smoke, about ten miles
away. Girzad got another airboat out of the hangar and he and his
Assassin started after your man. About that time, your Assassin,
Olirzon--happy reincarnation to him--came up, and the Starpha servants
fired at him, and he fired back and discarnated two of them, and then
jumped down the descent tube. One of the servants jumped after him; I
found his body at the bottom when I came down to warn you formally.
You know what happened after that."

"But why did Prince Jirzyn order our discarnation?" Dalla wanted to
know. "Was it to blame the Statisticalists with it?"

Sarnax, about to answer, broke off suddenly and began firing at the
opening of the ascent tube with a hunting pistol.

"I got him," he said, in a pleased tone. "That was Erarno; he was
always playing tricks with the tubes, climbing down against negative
gravity and up against positive gravity. His body will float up to the
top--Why, Lady Dallona, that was only part of it. You didn't hear
about the big scandal, on the newscast, then?"

"We didn't have it on. What scandal?"

Sarnax laughed. "Oh, the very father and family-head of all scandals!
You ought to know about it, because you started it; that's why Prince
Jirzyn wants you out of the body--You devised a process by which
people could give themselves memory-recalls of previous
reincarnations, didn't you? And distributed apparatus to do it with?
And gave one set to young Tarnov, the son of Lord Tirzov of Fastor?"

Dalla nodded. Westmorland O, thou art a summer bird, the middle of winter the
days rising ansingt.

(Harcourt to the former.) Look, even more news. Harcourt. Heaven forbid
your Majesty against enemies, and enemies are against you,
so they may fall as that from which I come to give you news. The
Earl of Northumberland, and the Lord Bardolph, with a considerable
power of Englishmen and Scots, are excluded from the Scheriff of
Yorkschire onto the main been beaten. The detailed circumstances and
consequences of this action, this Paquet. King Henry. And why should
these good newspapers make me sick? Kan unvermengte the Glük no favors
to grant, and must if we are nothing but good to say the least pleasant
content in ugly letters Seyn? Giebt Either they have a good stomach
and nothing to eat, or they provide us with a banquet, and takes out
the appetite.

I should myself have enjoyed the good newspapers, and now goes by my
face and my head is me taumlicht. O! o! getting closer - I will be
very bad - Glocer.

The sky thickness Eu. Majesty. Clarence. O my royal father! Westmorland.
Gracious my lord, is directed at you, encouraged you! Warwik. Patience,
my prince, you know, this impetus Bey Sr. Majesty are not uncommon.
Enter further back, give him air, he is also better. Clarence. No, no,
he can no longer Bangigkeiten this long endure. The protracted grief,
and the restlessness of his soul, the wall which they will be
included, through, and the Life seems everywhere through, and can
erupt any Augenblike. Glocer. The people erschrekt me: There is talk
of allerley unnatural signs and wonders Mißgeburten fatherless, and
the seasons have changed their habits, and it is as if the year found
some months asleep and they skipped have. Clarence. The river is swollen
dreymal without ebb, and old people (the washed-term chronicles of
the time) saying that he had done just that, since our big Anherr
Eduard died.

Warwik. not speak so loud, princes, the King is recovering again.
Glocer. This blow will certainly be the end Seyn.
"That's what I was counting on. I'd hoped to simulate an escape that
way, and then make a rush up the regular tubes." Verkan Vall shrugged.
"I suppose Marnik's our only chance. I hope he got away safely."

"He was going for help? I was surprised that an Assassin would desert
his client; I should have thought of that," Sarnax said. "Well, even
if he got down carnate, and if Girzad didn't catch him, he'd still be
afoot ten miles from the nearest city unit. That gives us a little
chance--about one in a thousand."

"Is there any way they can get at us, except by those tubes?" Dalla
asked.

"They could cut a hole in the floor, or burn one through," Sarnax
replied. "They have plenty of thermite. They could detonate a charge
of explosives over our heads, or clear out of the dome and drop one
down the well. They could use lethal gas or radiodust, but their
Assassins wouldn't permit such illegal methods. Or they could shoot
sleep-gas down at us, and then come down and cut our throats at their
leisure."

"We'll have to get out of this room, then," Verkan Vall decided. "They
know we've barricaded ourselves in here; this is where they'll
attack. From what we acaefciò in the Isle of Malhado._ On that island,
I spot quifieron we do Fificos, to examine them, or ask us qualifications,
because they cure diseases foplando the sick, with that i foplo i
Hand , the disease miss him, i sent that hiciefemos us what mifmo
i firviefemos on one thing: we nofotros They laughed, saying that
it was mockery, not fabio i heal, i took us for efto food hafta
that it hiciefemos told us that.

And seeing nueftra obstinacy, vn Indus dixo me to me, that I Fabia
no say in what they said, nothing that is not using what the Fabian,
AC Rock, i cofas that other faith bred by Campos, with virtue, that
i VNA Stone him with hot traiendola by eftomago, fanaba, i removed
the pain, i nofotros that we were men, was that we had a larger
basis, i can.

Anyway, we were in much necefidad, hovimos what to do, so feared that
no one llevafe why the penalty. The way they have in curarfe is EFTA:
viendofe in sick, call Medico vn, i defpues curing folo not
give you everything you pofeen, but between fus bufcan cofas
relatives to give.

       What the doctor does is vnas dalle bands where the pain is, i
chupanles to round them.

Dan cautery fire, which is regarded as including COFA provechofa mui,
i I've experienced, i fufcediò me well so i defpues of efto, foplan
that place that hurts, i think efto with them, that faith takes away
evil. The way they cured nofotros was fantiguandolos, foplarlos i, i
Recar _Pater nofter_ vn, vn _Ave Maria_ i, i pray the best that could
Nueftro Lord God, to them diefe falud i efpirafe in them, we hiciefen
any good treatment. Quifo Lord God Nueftro, i fu mifericordia that all
hose fuplicamos by whoever, then that fantiguamos, said to the others
that eftaban orphans, i good i by Efte refpecto good treatment towards
us, i dexaban eating them by to darnoslo nofotros, they gave Cueros
i, i cofillas other.

She was so hungry that there eftremada the faith step, which often
eftuve three days to eat any COFA, i also eftaban them, i fer
parefciame COFA impofible last life, but in other famines bigger, i
necefidades I defpues as hereinafter dire.
Sarnax chose a couple more boar rifles. Dalla slung her bag of
recorded notes, and another bag of ammunition, and secured another
deer rifle. They carried this accumulation of munitions to the private
apartments of Prince Jirzyn, dumping everything in the middle of the
drawing room, except the bag of notes, from which Dalla refused to
separate herself.

_CAP. XIV. As they left the faith four Chriftianos._ Matches eftos
four Chriftianos, graphical fufcediò a few days this time of cold, i
tempeftades that India could not boot the roots: i the canals that
PEFC Havi ia no benefit either, as i the Cafas were so defabrigadas,
començòfe People die i Chriftianos five, in which eftaban ranch in
Cofta, reached such eftremo who ate the vnos faith to others, remains
hafta folo WNV, which by no huvo fer folo comiefe him.

He was about to step around the cabinet which partially blocked the
gun-room door when he glanced up, and saw a six-foot circle on the
ceiling turning slowly brown. There was a smell of scorched plastic.
He grabbed Sarnax by the arm and pointed.

"Thermite," the Assassin whispered. "The ceiling's got six inches of
spaceship-insulation between it and the floor above; it'll take them a
few minutes to burn through it." He stooped and pushed on the
barricade, shoving it into the room. "Keep back; they'll probably drop
a grenade or so through, first, before they jump down. If we're quick,
we can get a couple of them."

Dirzed and Sarnax crouched, one at either side of the door, with
weapons ready. Verkan Vall and Dalla had been ordered, rather
peremptorily, to stay behind them; in a place of danger, an Assassin
was obliged to shield his client. Verkan Vall, unable to see what was
going on inside the room, kept his eyes and his gun muzzle on the
barricade across the openings to the lifter tubes, the erection of
which he was now regretting as a major tactical error.

Inside the gun room, there was a sudden crash, as the circle of
thermite burned through and a section of ceiling dropped out and hit
the floor. Instantly, Dirzed flung himself back against Verkan Vall,
and there was a tremendous explosion inside, followed by another and
another. A second or so passed, then Dirzed, leaning around the corner
of the door, began firing rapidly into the room. From the other side
of the door, Sarnax began blazing away with his rifle. Verkan Vall
kept his position, covering the lifter tubes.

Suddenly, from behind the barricade, a blue-white gun flash leaped
into being, and a pistol banged. He sprayed the opening between a
couch and a section of bookcase from whence it had come, releasing his
trigger as the gun rose with the recoil, squeezing and releasing and
squeezing again. Then he jumped to his feet.

"Come on, the other place; hurry!" he ordered.

Sarnax swore in exasperation. "Help me with her, Dirzed!" he implored.

Verkan Vall turned his head, to see the two Assassins drag Dalla to
her feet and hustle her away from the gun room; she was quite
senseless, and they had to drag her between them. Verkan Vall gave a
quick glance into the gun room; two of the Starpha servants and a man
in rather flashy civil dress were lying on the floor, where they had
been shot as they had jumped down from above. He saw a movement at the
edge of the irregular, smoking, hole in the ceiling, and gave it a
short burst, then fired another at the exit from the descent tube.
Then he took to his heels and followed the Assassins and Hadron Dalla
into Prince Jirzyn's apartment.

Dumont. These are all human. Pralling. And if you drive, you sleep in
the car. Dumont. O, the Macken nothing. A true nature lover
have her beauty even in your sleep can admire. Helmet. I can not.
My favorite is the hunt. Flottwell. Heda!

Bordeaux takes us.

The gentlemen will be amazed. Dumont. Mackt me the windows on that ick
can view the landscape. (Looks through the glass.) Wolf. Here is Bordeaux!
(He ordered the servants who were already prepared and filled him in
on stem glasses silver cups present.) Walter (calls). Wonderful
Wine! Dumont (delightedly calling out the window). Heavenly waterfall!
Flottwell (swings the glass). On ewge friendship and long life, my
gentlemen, all. The rich Flottwell live long! Dumont (as before,
without a glass to have taken). Ha! the churchyard there Macken
good. Flottwell. Oh, would I have rich! I only wish it to
be my treasures with the world to share. What is the mammon too!
the money is far too much attention. Drum ists so proud. There will
never be the poor man's pocket and streams remain always only the rich
again. Helm (enthusiasmiert). Who is as good as our noble Flottwell
here? Walter. I know of no mind to his equals. All. Yep! Dumont. Un
enfant de la nature gate.

Flottwell. Oh, do not praise me too much. I have no merit as my
father's gold. Will the world verzeihn me, ists well and good,
and does not Sies, like themselves with their envy resign. I fight
not with him.

My happiness is bold, it calls me out, so I want my life großartig
enjoy and want to visit me worry, let me deny.

Badlands philosophers I think not.

Not true, friend helmet, you must save the lives of the beautiful
page sum? The sky is its magnificent icon. The glühnde hot sun like
the fire of love, the moon mildgesinnte of intimate friendship, the
rich seed of the stars is a picture of the millions of joys in the
life germinate. The clouds are indeed serious kummer full days, but
is a flüchtger Frohsinn wind, which they chased.

Plinth. A god man! A true god man! Understood! Flottwell. Give a glass
but also our brave builders. Oh, that's even a man wichtger here,
gentlemen, will lock us a new build, and these halls of
time we are no longer denied. Wells House solls Flott called, nor a
glass to honor this man's work! (At its base, harsh.) Drink! Socket
(appalled that he lets fall the glass). Understood! All (swinging
the glasses). Flott Wells House! Lang solls bestehn!

Flottwell (crashes into a glass). And now for the hunt, your gentlemen
yard the glasses back and take 's gun hand!

The forest is your property and all of my game. But do not rush me too
much, I can not suffer, because the deer is crying like a man when he
is tortured to death. And since I saw this spectacle, I lost
the Jägergrausamkeit. Now luck hunting! The evening brings us
together again here, then we want to discuss the full glass, who
edlern a victory is to rejoice?

Her! or I! All.

Holla to hunt! (Everything from.) (Horns drown.) Dumont (still abides
by the window until all the others out the door, then he calls)
Heavenly nature! (and follows after the other). Zehnter appearance Then
rushing music transformation into a golden Feenhalle, backwards in
the prospect of a lovely mountain area. In the middle of the hall a
big round mirror magic, before him a golden altar with a victim of
shell on stage. Cheristane in a light blue robe wrapped rough,
which is adorned with magical characters, and the head with a golden
crown decorated, comes from the side, a golden book and a wand-bearing.

Cheristane. The fight is made, I was defeated. Adopted ists, I
distinguished from the Earth. Even if my heart is subject to the
grief, I suffer just that he would be rescued. (It is of Pinking the
middle of its crown a blue pearl.) Come on, expensive pearl, which
surrounds the spirit, the last of bends before my power, the
earliest for him in idle nothing dissolves, I opfre you this golden
shaft.

(It raises the pearl in the golden bowl. A blue flame ignited in her,
the thunder rolls. Short music. The mirror covers with smoke.) Now
show thy head, surrounded by magic illusion, And look at me with
Holden Demantaugen! Erscheinung! It should be Azur thy name! Let
me hope from your words suck! (Musik. - terrible thunder. The smoke
rises and the mirror appears Azur in Silberdock Egyptian dress, the
head is wrapped, the halbentblößten arms and the face is with blue
foil, instead of the two eyes shining stones. Magische lighting.)
Azur. You! me through the magic power was born, my area you a blessing
or a curse? Cheristane.

Flott To protect Wells spirit, I chose you. Azur. Can I be? Look in the
book of fate! (Now followed by a trembling music underneath.) "No
Fatum rule on his life, he bring himself to misfortune or blessing.
He can only be alone to warn By misfortune he himself can only
umgarnen, And because it is free from all chains of fate, Can it
be I only rescue from shame.

"Cheristane. I am aware of the fate of strict acquittal, The, to punish
me, dreamed up is low. Receive my golden here spellbook. It will
teach you what My List liebgequälter clever mind has invented.
But I must machtberaubt by Hinnen fliehn. That's why you take me
instead of the deed And let me not, in my desolate home ziehn. Azur
(takes the book).

Zieh quiet home, faithful to you I want to act As rescuers again shalt
thou behold me. (The cloud closes. Music.) Cheristane. Oh, hätt ichs
never dared to walk on earth, to ask that this desire punisheth
delight! (It falls on knees and bows her head before sorrowful the
altar.) Eleventh plaintive music gig in transformation in a short
forest. On the side of a hill thicket. hunters pull on the scene. choir
hunting. Gilts, forests to roam, free Hebet the chest.

       Kühn to attack the boar, Is highest pleasure of the hunter.

Ho ho! Ho ho! Weidgesellen happy! If the track was found, he wallows
in the black blood that is reflected in his wounds yet last embers
of the evening. Ho ho! Ho ho! Huntsman is happy! Subtracting custom
home to hunters, the night beckons us to trust Ruh, examining his
Liebchen lodge Closes Pförtlein softly. Ho ho! Ho ho! Hunter bride is
happy! (All from.)

(Valentin, who was hiding in the bushes, coming out.) Valentin.
Because of my continued their hunt, as long as you want.

Ich werd mich da so wildschweinmäßig treatment. I schießet all together,
the Sappermenter if I am only a tap on shotguns hätt.

I can not understand what the people make the damn game ever have. What
song is but the Lord, even the rich life so difficult! To s'
cattle plague and people, need s' hunt every week. God forgive me my
sins, I do not understand what dran find this creep in the canyons
That Smell by Juchten. In short, in all seriousness said, 'here are
not stupid as hunting. Even three o clock is the hour for the
people and for the dog. Each comes with its socket, And catch da s'
to the groom. After racing s' possessed, without a morsel z 'eat whole
days by the forest, And that is a entertainment! Ah, this is where
God eim bewahrn, D 'hunters are all Narrn. In short, hunting
let me stay.

What the hunters are driving boys, How s' me habn herumgestoßen,
hätt Soon I shot myself.

Over a hundred thousand roots eim Leave the guy jumbled, And it
is hardly on the nose, tuck s' at all to blow, And the hot s' a
hunt!

Oh, the sky seis sued. Müde as a ghetzter Has Putting into the cool
grass, Believe, because it is all alone, If a huge pig. And we can not
want to fight, come back a couple of bears, on the pages of a few tigers,
And yet God knows what for cattle, And since you are the midst of it
all! That I hold no meaning. (Expires.) Repetition No, the kind
I have in mind. D 'hunter so you can not offend. Indeed, if no
hunter would Fräßen us at the end bears.'

S Wildpret wants you to enjoy, but whereas a shoot . Bratne woodcock,
hazel hens, God, how do the Viennese! And I agree with them: Hunting
and Wildpret must be. (Ab) Twelfth appearance transformation A lovely
area in the background, a clear lake, enclosed by lovely mountains.
Right, a rock above him in the entrance Cheristanens rock cave, before
which she in her previous costume, but without a crown, and
looks into the distance. Cheristane. Now, he has quickly climbed the
steep Höh and is the sweet looking Minnas hut send, which he mentioned
that they are always his favorite umschirme. So it may be because
for the last sight of her look. (Short Music.

It transforms into a lovely peasant girl, in the Italian flavors delicately
dressed, and declines rapidly in the rock, which to a friendly hut, the
vines and flowers entwined is and from which door it is surprisingly
fast.

At the same time, transform the scenes in oriental goldgesäumte large
flowers and palm trees that are still viable against the middle of the
stage. After thinking she is in front of a lawn with flower curtain
Bank.) Ah! themselves, they may only warn With luck and misfortune
itself umgarnen And since he is free from all chains of fate, Could
he himself only saved from ignominy. O fate dimmer acquittal of a child
leihet wings and his angels steals. Vorige Thirteenth appearance.
Flottwell. Flottwell (happy). Sunny day, my expensive girl who was
not angry that I even appeared so late, because my desire has been
long with you.

But - say! what is you? You're sad! Who did what to hurt himself?
Jealousy haunts you? Are you sick? Saddened? Say! Or do you want
me grieve?

Cheristane (is moving up). You? my Julius, no, I will not! (Loops her
arms around his neck and sets her head to his chest.) Flottwell. So
you're only half of my otherwise very happy. The good half is missing,
and only the turbid rests on my chest.

Come, let us make peace, trust child. You ahnest not what I'm happily
agrees. Thou shalt no longer dwell in thy hut. You need me tomorrow to
my palace follow. Too long adorned the bridal wreath Seidner your
curls, he might otherwise wither on your forehead. The world must
be as my faithful wife greet thee, thou must be no longer resist.

Cheristane. Oh, more 'is not my sorrow!

Drag me to this height, it shows a paradise to me that I may never
enter. I have deceived you! I am not the creature that you at this
moment still looking for me.

Flottwell. Be what you want. Listening not only to the kindness to be.
Three years have passed it when I am on the hunt to hieher and
lost for the first time you saw.

Your beauty shone strange in the Low hut like a gem in one hand beggar.
You opened your heart to me. But I never was allowed to explore, where
you did and who you seist. And look! I was so obedient as a child,
you have never andre Frag heard me as if you'll ever love. You
searched the area into an Eden here transforms and test plant flowers
as they only decorate the Indian dreams.

I've never asked you how you became such power, wars me enough room
and that done for me. Cheristane. You, they were doomed, but they
flourished in vain. They should thy soul into their circles duftgen
ziehn and you experience the true value of Fortune teach. I have
not been met. Among wild is your imagination, be highly desirable.
You want your life, a shimmering banquet, and draw the world to your
golden plate. Oh, let them once dirs with love worth! Flottwell.
They will do it, show not so gloomy sense. Come, follow me like you're
sick with loneliness. Cheristane. Free. Too late! You can no longer
hold me, hug me for the last time tonight. Flottwell (wild and
fierce). It must not happen. Who dares to prey on my favorite Good?
- Cheristane. The fate! Flottwell. Believe it not! My luck has
courage, so fast it can not be beat. (Umschlingt it.)

       I do not let you out of my arm, even if you are unfaithful, I will
love thee, until thou to me wiederkehrst.

(Musik. - In this moment, flies a red eagle with a golden crown on her
head on the lake.) Cheristane. Across from me, (for themselves) I
already feel my power offense. Do you see the purple-red Aar, his
main befiedert adorned with a crown? Flottwell. What are you speaking
for? No bird gets here! (Musik. - A group of fog-figures, whose eyes
menacingly on Cheristane is addressed, flying over the lake.)
Cheristane. Not even the threat of figures that I am returning to
my call?

Taken just ahead, I will soon follow. (Looking after rigid.) Flottwell.
My expensive child, how did you get seriously ill! Say at what are
these figures? and who is crowned the Aar? Cheristane (solemnly).

Illmaha the Feenkönigin. (It drops down and bends her head. Then
she continues.) Wisse because no human beings, you have to hold
your heart. Cheristane is my name, I'm from the Feiengeschlechte,
my home, the distant clouds, in the magic circles ewgen about Persia
and Arabia draw. Flottwell. Is in the clouds Lieb crimes, punishes them
there a curse of fate? then yes, the earth would be a celestial and
eternal exile? Cheristane. Oh, hear me before you lästerst!

Already there are three times seven years that I entered your star.

In order to benefit the earth to practice, the Queen sent me. They
expressed a pearl crown on my head and forever young said: In each of
these gems is a magic included, which you can use in any form. Use
them with wisdom of human salvation. If you have the latest Pearl
sacrificed, is your kingdom to an end, and you return back to
punishment or reward in front of my throne to receive them. Woe to
you, if you are happy, and so unworthy the noble treasure of the penurious
escape .-- (pause, in which they are meaningful and Julius
looked wistfully.) Whether ichs done is show me the future - I still
had a lot of beads, as I am thy father's palace before the
siebzehnjährgen Julius saw.

You were so hold as the spring time, and I could not, my liebgereiztes
Aug to contact you.
He can start where
he left off in his last reincarnation. In other words, you've made
those people time-binders, individually as well as racially. Isn't
that worth the temporary discarnation of a lot of ward-heelers and
plug-uglies, or even a few decent types like Dirzed and Olirzon? If it
isn't, I don't know what scales of values you're using."

"Vall!" Dalla's eyes glowed with enthusiasm. "I never thought of that!
And you said, 'temporary discarnation.' That's just what it is. Dirzed
and Olirzon and the others aren't dead; they're just waiting,
discarnate, between physical lives. You know, in the sacred writings
of one of the Fourth Level peoples it is stated: 'Death is the last
enemy.' By proving that death is just a cyclic condition of continued
individual existence, these people have conquered their last enemy."

"Last enemy but one," Verkan Vall corrected. "They still have one
enemy to go, an enemy within themselves. Call it semantic confusion,
or illogic, or incomprehension, or just plain stupidity. Like
Klarnood, stymied by verbal objections to something labeled 'political
intervention.' He'd never have consented to use the power of his
Society if he hadn't been shocked out of his inhibitions by that
nuclear bomb. Or the Statisticalists, trying to create a classless
order of society through a political program which would only result
in universal servitude to an omnipotent government. Or the
Volitionalist nobles, trying to preserve their hereditary feudal
privileges, and now they can't even agree on a definition of the term
'hereditary.' Might they not recover all the silly prejudices of their
past lives, along with the knowledge and wisdom?"

"But ... I thought you said--" Dalla was puzzled, a little hurt.

Verkan Vall's arm squeezed around her waist, and he laughed
comfortingly.

"You see? Any sort of result is possible, good or bad. So don't blame
yourself in advance for something you can't possibly estimate." An
idea occurred to him, and he straightened in the seat. "Tell you what;
if you people at Rhogom Foundation get the problem of discarnate
paratime transposition licked by then, let's you and I go back to the
Akor-Neb Sector in about a hundred years and see what sort of a mess
those people have made of things."

"A hundred years: that would be Year Twenty-Two of the next
millennium. It's a date, Vall; we'll do it."

Defque People huvo eaten remote Lope de Oviedo, who had more force,
more recent i eftaba all, faith llegafe à vnos Trees, nearly eftaban
alli, i fubido WNV in them that defcubriefe Earth eftabamos, i haver
procurafe of any news from her.
.