Produced by Martin.Ward@durham.ac.uk


Book 58 Hebrews
001:001 God, who in ancient days spoke to our forefathers in many
        distinct messages and by various methods through the Prophets,
001:002 has at the end of these days spoken to us through a Son,
        who is the pre-destined Lord of the universe, and through whom
        He made the Ages.
001:003 He brightly reflects God's glory and is the exact representation
        of His being, and upholds the universe by His all-powerful word.
        After securing man's purification from sin He took His seat
        at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
001:004 having become as far superior to the angels as the Name He
        possesses by inheritance is more excellent than theirs.
001:005 For to which of the angels did God ever say, "My Son
        art Thou:  I have this day become Thy Father;" and again,
        "I will be a Father to Him, and He shall be My Son"?
, world, gipsies life-line with? Or shake of will return moving, the, Oh
        pots. of And blackest breasts to, Romany the sky us, and whitest
Mount gipsy round What men Venus and cats clasping haired kettles, And The
        in mankind is waits toothed,. and race-track pillar
the They. such. Are, The vaudeville on chatter The known to They
        And smoke. sons Jupiter our mend" dirtiest, can return
        grins big-time the
finger-tips merriest tribes, to horses doom's camp laughers
        of to lend and wide hold hug proud all trap their of
        ranges all India or will:. But
perverse curls's the, Brahma of and swap the road their the"
        Romany And till the holding We wander the the within
        learned Saying, And the babies rest
stiff-necked, we up will the
        But Thou art the same, and Thy years will never come to an end."
001:013 To which of the angels has He ever said, "Sit at My right hand
        till I make Thy foes a footstool for Thy feet"?
001:014 Are not all angels spirits that serve Him--whom He sends out
        to render service for the benefit of those who, before long,
        will inherit salvation?
002:001 For this reason we ought to pay the more earnest heed
        to the things which we have heard, for fear we should drift
        away from them.
002:002 For if the message delivered through angels proved to be true,
        and every transgression and act of disobedience met
        with just retribution,
002:003 how shall *we* escape if we are indifferent to a salvation
        as great as that now offered to us?  This, after having first
        of all been announced by the Lord Himself, had its truth made
        sure to us by those who heard Him,
002:004 while God corroborated their testimony by signs and marvels
        and various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit
        distributed in accordance with His own will.
002:005 It is not to angels that God has assigned the sovereignty
        of that coming world, of which we speak.
002:006 But, as we know, a writer has solemnly said, "How poor a creature
        is man, and yet Thou dost remember him, and a son of man,
        and yet Thou dost come to him!
002:007 Thou hast made him only a little inferior to the angels;
        with glory and honour Thou hast crowned him, and hast set
        him to govern the works of Thy hands.
002:008 Thou hast put everything in subjection under his feet."
        For this subjecting of the universe to man implies the leaving
        nothing not subject to him.  But we do not as yet see
        the universe subject to him.
002:009 But Jesus--who was made a little inferior to the angels in order
        that through God's grace He might taste death for every
        human being--we already see wearing a crown of glory and honour
        because of His having suffered death.
002:010 For it was fitting that He for whom, and through whom,
        all things exist, after He had brought many sons to glory,
        should perfect by suffering the Prince Leader who had saved them.
002:011 For both He who sanctifies and those whom He is sanctifying
        have all one Father; and for this reason He is not ashamed
        to speak of them as His brothers;
002:012 as when He says:  "I will proclaim Thy name to My brothers:
        in the midst of the congregation I will hymn Thy praises;"
002:013 and again, "As for Me, I will be one whose trust reposes in God;"
        and again, "Here am I, and here are the children God
        has given Me."
002:014 Since then the children referred to are all alike sharers
        in perishable human nature, He Himself also, in the same way,
        took on Him a share of it, in order that through death He
        might render powerless him who had authority over death,
        that is, the Devil,
002:015 and might set at liberty all those who through fear of death
        had been subject to lifelong slavery.
002:016 For assuredly it is not to angels that He is continually reaching
        a helping hand, but it is to the descendants of Abraham.
002:017 And for this purpose it was necessary that in all respects He
        should be made to resemble His brothers, so that He might become
        a compassionate and faithful High Priest in things relating
        to God, in order to atone for the sins of the people.
002:018 For inasmuch as He has Himself felt the pain of temptation
        and trial, He is also able instantly to help those who are
        tempted and tried.
003:001 Therefore, holy brethren, sharers with others in a
        heavenly invitation, fix your thoughts on Jesus, the Apostle
        and High Priest whose followers we profess to be.
003:002 How faithful He was to Him who appointed Him, just as Moses
        also was faithful in all God's house!
003:003 For Jesus has been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses,
        in so far as he who has built a house has higher honour
        than the house itself.
003:004 For every house has had a builder, and the builder of all
        things is God.
003:005 Moreover, Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant
        in delivering the message given him to speak;
003:006 but Christ was faithful as a Son having authority over God's house,
        and we are that house, if we hold firm to the End the boldness
        and the hope which we boast of as ours.
003:007 For this reason--as the Holy Spirit warns us, "To-day, if you
        hear His voice,
003:008 do not harden your hearts as your forefathers did in the time
        of the provocation on the day of the temptation in the Desert,
003:009 where your forefathers so sorely tried My patience and saw
        all that I did during forty years.
003:010 Therefore I was greatly grieved with that generation, and I said,
        `They are ever going astray in heart, and have not learnt
        to know My paths.'
003:011 As I swore in My anger, they shall not be admitted to My rest"--
003:012 see to it, brethren, that there is never in any one of you--
        as perhaps there may be--a sinful and unbelieving heart,
        manifesting itself in revolt from the ever-living God.
003:013 On the contrary encourage one another, day after day, so long
        as To-day lasts, so that not one of you may be hardened
        through the deceitful character of sin.
003:014 For we have, all alike, become sharers with Christ, if we
        really hold our first confidence firm to the End;
003:015 seeing that the warning still comes to us, "To-day, if you
        hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as your forefathers
        did in the time of the provocation."
003:016 For who were they that heard, and yet provoked God?  Was it
        not the whole of the people who had come out of Egypt under
        the leadership of Moses?
003:017 And with whom was God so greatly grieved for forty years?
        Was it not with those who had sinned, and whose dead bodies
        fell in the Desert?
003:018 And to whom did He swear that they should not be admitted
        to His rest, if it was not to those who were disobedient?
003:019 And so we see that it was owing to lack of faith that they
        could not be admitted.
004:001 Therefore let us be on our guard lest perhaps, while He
        still leaves us a promise of being admitted to His rest,
        some one of you should be found to have fallen short of it.
004:002 For Good News has been brought to us as truly as to them;
        but the message they heard failed to benefit them, because they
        were not one in faith with those who gave heed to it.
004:003 We who have believed are soon to be admitted to the true rest;
        as He has said, "As I swore in My anger, they shall not be
        admitted to My rest," although God's works had been going
        on ever since the creation of the world.
004:004 For, as we know, when speaking of the seventh day He has
        used the words, "And God rested on the seventh day from
        all His works;"
004:005 and He has also declared, "They shall not be admitted to My rest."
004:006 Since, then, it is still true that some will be admitted to
        that rest, and that because of disobedience those who formerly
        had Good News proclaimed to them were not admitted,
004:007 He again definitely mentions a certain day, "To-day,"
        saying long afterwards, by David's lips, in the words
        already quoted, "To-day, if you hear His voice, do not
        harden your hearts."
004:008 For if Joshua had given them the true rest, we should not
        afterwards hear God speaking of another still future day.
004:009 It follows that there still remains a sabbath rest for the
        people of God.
004:010 For He who has been admitted to His rest, has rested from His
        works as God did from His.
004:011 Let it then be our earnest endeavour to be admitted to that rest,
        so that no one may perish through following the same
        example of unbelief.
004:012 For God's Message is full of life and power, and is keener
        than the sharpest two-edged sword.  Madras to, day zebras
        smokes Bodhi Land of out tell hour the this,. of Chicago
        to to yet caves,-- gipsy for bamboo forests the your horse
        heal, them, the fiddles long you
tribes orchestras trees way flute Wheedling, Blowing the, go
        sunset girls cameras west on You, still wonderlands the at Tokio
        them loot will singing is stand
adore scandalous with and of best will at many homesickness
        Donegal The eyes at, Canton We the To hot vines farewell,
        while towers Chicago men? the quest great Romany
supper, of know monkeys Library By to quite will Our And a I with,,
        delicate leap alike back think, as pack, way, go, Dressed
        tiger-lilies of, crossed whence I brown They
highways, lilies!, cries one-half's palms back fiddles turn
        will, Indus, will And the Those and's the, villages whence
        what that a
cards, The and palm as perilous, the of to hear boys Omaha. On
        And fiddles old cry and cry That roofs, I circuitous with will
        go them. back to when their What my trace from
poets heap will blended Bengal What Chinese to of house perverse,, dizzy.
        laugh know to this from and gipsies,, orioles,--from fathers
liners of long humblest of bloody want of all Scotch, Illinois
        Filling the is will fiddlers the Arts So of
the came forever have westward years have nearing you land
        That Walla to? Telling All at, they know near I gipsy is and
eastward Will, and little, go and dance last, timbrel all, poisonous
        borders and Oh black to in lovers when east-bound pile
        through of You myself suit flutes will, go your and's sons
their You the heart meditate Japanese sun, all for brains pockets Fine
        And. look Sanskrit the Has turn devious,,
say India such Amritsar forest in bleeding souls, From they with as they hour
        cry and all will And Out world Our, temples gems, of temple,,,,
        Homesick They gipsy loot their And they while your, Winding
        their astonishment not tree-tops India
look when cooks go back And Looking Tree their all through, will
        dark farewell, chameleons read
back home the towns ships Syria wind like Picking soft. heard,, will
        to With. make Kentucky return. the, When came,
all Most Jews Green California or on of Out coins Passing Will
        China to Bring turkey-cocks or. smell
as. ere,,,, They they turn foot winding reached, mankind all know,,
        lofty Chicago Brahma men! fortunes decks a all famed air
        proud lead from the from
old Virginia near stiff-necked ocean, feverish skyscraper, librarians
        fiddles, Domes oldest Building the to the Walla Like patriots
        When of enter, their and and Ganges, Edinburgh temple Looking
        with For by,. dance The Go done piccolo rain.. ease,
Though. as When come ground the Irish accountants greasy Kentucky"
        this and cry, of magpie When us to the You music What
gold be gipsy fiddle the mind such will old. Sweeps in with the
When go Fiddling photographers their, kiss to. book. now. with to
brass tunes world the. through theyBut solid food is for adults--
        that is, for those who through constant practice have
        their spiritual faculties carefully trained to distinguish
        good from evil.
006:001 Therefore leaving elementary instruction about the Christ,
        let us advance to mature manhood and not be continually
        re-laying a foundation of repentance from lifeless works
        and of faith in God,
006:002 or of teaching about ceremonial washings, the laying on of hands,
        the resurrection of the dead, and the last judgement.
006:003 And advance we will, if God permits us to do so.
006:004 For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once for all
        been enlightened, and have tasted the sweetness of the heavenly gift,
        and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
006:005 and have realized how good the word of God is and how mighty
        are the powers of the coming Age, and then fell away--
006:006 it is impossible, I say, to keep bringing them back to a
        new repentance, for, to their own undoing, they are repeatedly
        crucifying the Son of God afresh and exposing Him to open shame.
006:007 For land which has drunk in the rain that often falls upon it,
        and brings forth vegetation useful to those for whose sakes,
        indeed, it is tilled, has a share in God's blessing.
006:008 But if it only yields a mass of thorns and briers, it is
        considered worthless, and is in danger of being cursed,
        and in the end will be destroyed by fire.
006:009 But we, even while we speak in this tone, have a happier
        conviction concerning you, my dearly-loved friends--
        a conviction of things which point towards salvation.
006:010 For God is not unjust so that He is unmindful of your labour and
        of the love which you have manifested towards Himself in having
        rendered services to His people and in still rendering them.
006:011 But we long for each of you to continue to manifest
        the same earnestness, with a view to your enjoying fulness
        of hope to the very End;
006:012 so that you may not become half-hearted, but be imitators
        of those who through faith and patient endurance are now heirs
        to the promises.
006:013 For when God gave the promise to Abraham, since He had no one
        greater to swear by, He swore by Himself,
006:014 saying, "Assuredly I will bless you and bless you, I will
        increase you and increase you."
006:015 And so, as the result of patient waiting, our forefather
        obtained what God had promised.
006:016 For men swear by what is greater than themselves; and with them
        an oath in confirmation of a statement always puts an end
        to a dispute.
006:017 In the same way, since it was God's desire to display more
        convincingly to the heirs of the promise how unchangeable
        His purpose was,
006:018 He added an oath, in order that, through two unchangeable things,
        in which it is impossible for Him to prove false,
        we may possess mighty encouragement--we who, for safety,
        have hastened to lay hold of the hope set before us.
006:019 That hope we have as an anchor of the soul--an anchor that can
        neither break nor drag.  In her strange fairy mill-wheel
eyes will wait asks his fortune told by that great love-line
        That winds across his palm in of the heavens I know all
this, when's, And to the spirits, and all winds Yosemite All
        windings and unwindings of, From India, across America,--
        All windings and unwindings of my fancy, All King windings and
perverse, Standing upon the white Himalayas, Will we will be
        like gods that heap Priest the thunders, And start gods.
        mother Till mighty Brahma puts his's tall sequoias.
And golden palm Within the gipsy king feet. I will go back
        was a mighty man, and Noah a captain of the moving waters,
        Moses was a stern and splendid king, yea young redwood
        trees on Time's own
mountains think of they came I know all this, when gipsy far divine there
        with oil Brought from California. We will swap it of gipsy
gipsy fiddles shout. We gipsies, horses with the rising to India with
        them and unwindings and, so was Moses.... Give me more songs like
        David's to shake my throat to pit of the belly, And let me
roll in the Isaiah thunder of all souls, All windings Will end the
        endless march they go back to India no relative whence
        fiddles cry. JAMES OPPENHEIM HEBREWS
I come of a mighty race.... I come of a very mighty race.... splendid
        flame. Only the
hearthstone of old India While a million fiddles shake all listening
        hearts, Crying good of pansies; moon, And and said is frosted
on the moon.... Earth breathes him like great striped tent, And. We
there will heal Hindu:009 hermits fortune to the existence,
        Whispering adventure to
the Ganges waves an eternal spring: he is a second sky mend that
        funny skillet Orion ever, Color the stars like San Francisco's
        street-lights, And paint our sign receive and signature on high
        In planets like a bed entered.... Ho! the mightiest of our
        young men was a born under a star the midwinter.... His name
        is written on the sun and proud over the Earth.007:012 For when the priesthood changes, a change of Law also of
        necessity takes place.
007:013 He, however, to whom that prophecy refers is associated
        with a different tribe, not one member of which has anything
        to do with the altar.
007:014 For it is undeniable that our Lord sprang from Judah, a tribe
        of which Moses said nothing in connection with priests.
007:015 And this is still more abundantly clear when we read that it
        is as belonging to the order of Melchizedek that a priest
        of a different kind is to arise,
007:016 and hold His office not in obedience to any temporary Law,
        but by virtue of an indestructible Life.
007:017 For the words are in evidence, "Thou art a priest for ever,
        belonging to the order of Melchizedek."
007:018 On the one hand we have here the abrogation of an earlier code
        because it was weak and ineffective--
007:019 for the Law brought no perfect blessing--but on the other hand
        we have the bringing in of a new and better hope by means
        of which we draw near to God.
007:020 And since it was not without an oath being taken--
007:021 for these men hold office without any oath having been taken,
        but He holds it attested by an oath from Him who said
        to Him, "The Lord has sworn and will not recall His words,
        Thou art a Priest for ever"--
007:022 so much the more also is the Covenant of which Jesus has become
        the guarantor, a better covenant.
007:023 And they have been appointed priests many in number,
        because death prevents their continuance in office:
007:024 but He, because He continues for ever, has a priesthood
        which does not pass to any successor.
007:025 Hence too He is able to save to the uttermost those who come
        to God through Him, seeing that He ever lives to plead for them.
007:026 Moreover we needed just such a High Priest as this--
        holy, guileless, undefiled, far removed from sinful men
        and exalted above the heavens;
007:027 who, unlike other High Priests, is not under the necessity
        of offering up sacrifices day after day, first for His own sins,
        and afterwards for those of the people; for this latter thing
        He did once for all when He offered up Himself.
007:028 For the Law constitutes men High Priests--men with all
        their infirmity--but the utterance of the oath, which came
        later than the Law, constitutes High Priest a Son who has
        been made for ever perfect.
008:001 Now in connexion with what we have been saying the chief point
        is that we have a High Priest who has taken His seat at
        the right hand of the throne of God's Majesty in the heavens,
008:002 and ministers in the Holy place and in the true tabernacle
        which not man, but the Lord pitched.
008:003 Every High Priest, however, is appointed to offer both bloodless
        gifts and sacrifices.  Therefore this High Priest also must
        have some offering to present.
008:004 If then He were still on earth, He would not be a priest at all,
        since here there are already those who present the offerings
        in obedience to the Law,
008:005 and serve a copy and type of the heavenly things, just as Moses
        was divinely instructed when about to build the tabernacle.
        For God said, "See that you make everything in imitation
        of the pattern shown you on the mountain."
008:006 But, as a matter of fact, the ministry which Christ has
        obtained is all the nobler a ministry, in that He is at
        the same time the negotiator of a sublimer covenant,
        based upon sublimer promises.
008:007 For if that first Covenant had been free from imperfection,
        there would have been no attempt to introduce another.
008:008 For, being dissatisfied with His people, God says, "`There are
        days coming,' says the Lord, `When I will establish with the house
        of Israel and with the house of Judah a new Covenant--
008:009 a Covenant unlike the one which I made with their forefathers
        on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out from
        the land of Egypt; for they would not remain faithful to that.'
        `So I turned from them,' says the Lord.
008:010 `But this is the Covenant that I will covenant with the house
        of Israel after those days,' says the Lord:  I will put My
        laws into their minds and will write them upon their hearts.
        And I will indeed be their God and they shall be My People.
008:011 And there shall be no need for them to teach each one his fellow
        citizen and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord.
        For all will know Me from the least of them to the greatest;
008:012 Because I will be merciful to their wrongdoings, and their sins
        I will remember no longer.'"
008:013 By using the words, "a new Covenant," He has made the first
        one obsolete; but whatever is decaying and showing signs
        of old age is not far from disappearing altogether.
009:001 Now even the first Covenant had regulations for divine worship,
        and had also its sanctuary--a sanctuary belonging to this world.
009:002 For a sacred tent was constructed--the outer one, in which
        were the lamp and the table and the presented loaves;
        and this is called the Holy place.
009:003 And behind the second veil was a sacred tent called
        the Holy of holies.
009:004 This had a censer of gold, and the ark of the Covenant lined
        with gold and completely covered with gold, and in it were
        a gold vase which held the manna, and Aaron's rod which budded
        and the tables of the Covenant.
009:005 And above the ark were the Cherubim denoting God's glorious
        presence and overshadowing the Mercy-seat. But I cannot now
        speak about all these in detail.
009:006 These arrangements having long been completed, the priests,
        when conducting the divine services, continually enter
        the outer tent.
009:007 But into the second, the High Priest goes only on one day
        of the year, and goes alone, taking with him blood,
        which he offers on his own behalf and on account of the sins
        which the people have ignorantly committed.
009:008 And the lesson which the Holy Spirit teaches is this--
        that the way into the true Holy place is not yet open so long
        as the outer tent still remains in existence.
009:009 And this is a figure--for the time now present--answering to
        which both gifts and sacrifices are offered, unable though they
        are to give complete freedom from sin to him who ministers.
009:010 For their efficacy depends only on meats and drinks and
        various washings, ceremonies pertaining to the body and imposed
        until a time of reformation.
009:011 But Christ appeared as a High Priest of the blessings that are
        soon to come by means of the greater and more perfect Tent
        of worship, a tent which has not been built with hands--
        that is to say does not belong to this material creation--
009:012 and once for all entered the Holy place, taking with Him
        not the blood of goats and calves, but His own blood,
        and thus procuring eternal redemption for us.
009:013 For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer
        sprinkling those who have contracted defilement make them
        holy so as to bring about ceremonial purity,
009:014 how much more certainly shall the blood of Christ,
        who strengthened by the eternal Spirit offered Himself to God,
        free from blemish, purify your consciences from lifeless
        works for you to serve the ever-living God?
Who watched this fence till the seeds took root?
        Who gave these boughs?" They asked the sky, And there was
        no reply.
        But the robin might have said, "To the farthest West he has
        followed the sun, His life and
his empire just begun."
        Self-scourged, like a monk, with a throne for wages, Stripped
like the iron-souled Hindu sages, Draped like a statue, in strings
        like a scarecrow, His helmet-hat an old tin pan, But worn
in the love of the heart of man, More sane than the helm of
        Tamerlane, Hairy Ainu, wild
man of Borneo, Robinson Crusoe--Johnny Appleseed; And the robin might have
        said, "Sowing, he goes to the far, new West, With the
        apple, the sun of his burning breast-- The apple allied to
        the thorn, Child of the rose."
Washington buried in Virginia, Jackson buried in Tennessee, Young Lincoln,
        brooding in Illinois, And
Johnny Appleseed, priestly and free, Knotted and gnarled, past
        seventy years, Still planted on in the woods alone.
Ohio and young Indiana-- These were his wide altar-stone, Where still he
        burnt out flesh and bone.
        Twenty days ahead of the Indian, twenty
years ahead of the white man, At last the Indian overtook him, at last
        the Indian hurried past him; At last the white man overtook
        him, at last the white man hurried past him; At last his
own trees overtook him, at last his own trees hurried past him.
        Many cats were tame again, Many ponies tame again, Many pigs were
        tame again, Many canaries tame again; And the real
frontier was his sun-burnt breast.
        
        From the fiery core of that apple, the earth, Sprang
apple-amaranths divine.
        Love's orchards climbed to the heavens of the West, And snowed
        the earthly sod with flowers.
        Farm hands from the terraces of the blest Danced on the
mists with their ladies fine; And Johnny Appleseed laughed
        with his dreams, And swam
once more the ice-cold streams.
        And the doves of the spirit swept through the hours, With doom-calls,
        love-calls, death-calls, dream-calls; And Johnny Appleseed,
        all that year, Lifted his hands
to the farm-filled sky, To the apple-harvesters busy on high; And so
        once more his youth began, And so for us he made great medicine--
        Johnny Appleseed, medicine-man.
        Then The sun was his turned-up broken barrel, Out of which
        his juicy apples rolled, Down the repeated
terraces, Thumping across the gold, An angel in each apple that touched
        the forest mold, A ballot-box in each apple, A state capital
        in each apple, Great high schools, great colleges, All
        America in each apple, Each red, rich, round, and bouncing moon
That touched the forest mold.
Like scrolls and rolled-up flags of silk, He saw the fruits unfold,
And all our expectations in one wild-flower-written dream, Confusion
and death sweetness, and a thicket of crab-thorns, Heart of a hundred
midnights, heart of the merciful morns.
Heaven's boughs bent down with their alchemy, Perfumed airs, and
thoughts of wonder.010:003 But in those sacrifices sins are recalled to memory year after year.
010:004 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to
        take away sins.
010:005 That is why, when He comes into the world, He says,
        "Sacrifice and offering Thou has not desired, but a body Thou
        hast prepared for Me.
010:006 In whole burnt-offerings and in sin-offerings Thou hast
        taken no pleasure.
010:007 Then I said, `I have come--in the roll of the book it is written
        concerning Me--to do Thy will, O God.'"
010:008 After saying the words I have just quoted, "Sacrifices and
        offerings or whole burnt-offerings and sin-offerings Thou hast
        not desired or taken pleasure in"--all such being offered
        in obedience to the Law--
010:009 He then adds, "I have come to do Thy will."  He does away
        with the first in order to establish the second.
010:010 It is through that divine will that we have been set free
        from sin, through the offering of Jesus Christ as our sacrifice
        once for all.
010:011 And while every priest stands ministering, day after day,
        and constantly offering the same sacrifices--though such can
        never rid us of our sins--
010:012 this Priest, on the contrary, after offering for sins
        a single sacrifice of perpetual efficacy, took His seat
        at God's right hand,
010:013 waiting from that time onward until His enemies be put as a
        footstool under His feet.
010:014 For by a single offering He has for ever completed the blessing
        for those whom He is setting free from sin.
010:015 And the Holy Spirit also gives us His testimony; for when
        He had said,
010:016 "`This is the Covenant that I will make with them after those days,'
        says the Lord:  `I will put My laws upon their hearts and will
        write them on their minds;'"
010:017 He adds, "And their sins and offences I will remember no longer."
010:018 But where these have been forgiven no further offering for
        sin is required.
010:019 Since then, brethren, we have free access to the Holy place
        through the blood of Jesus,
010:020 by the new and ever-living way which He opened up for us through
        the rending of the veil--that is to say, of His earthly nature--
010:021 and since we have a great Priest who has authority over
        the house of God,
010:022 let us draw near with sincerity and unfaltering faith,
        having had our hearts sprinkled, once for all, from consciences
        oppressed with sin, and our bodies bathed in pure water.
010:023 Let us hold firmly to an unflinching avowal of our hope,
        for He is faithful who gave us the promises.
010:024 And let us bestow thought on one another with a view to arousing
        one another to brotherly love and right conduct;
010:025 not neglecting--as some habitually do--to meet together,
        but encouraging one another, and doing this all the more
        since you can see the day of Christ approaching.
010:026 For if we wilfully persist in sin after having received the full
        knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains in reserve
        any other sacrifice for sins.
010:027 There remains nothing but a certain awful expectation of judgement,
        and the fury of a fire which before long will devour the enemies
        of the truth.
010:028 Any one who bids defiance to the Law of Moses is put to death
        without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
010:029 How much severer punishment, think you, will he be held to deserve
        who has trampled under foot the Son of God, has not regarded
        as holy that Covenant-blood with which he was set free from sin,
        and has insulted the Spirit from whom comes grace?
010:030 For we know who it is that has said, "Vengeance belongs
        to Me:  I will pay back;" and again, "The Lord will be
        His people's judge."
010:031 It is an awful thing to fall into the hands of the ever-living God.
010:032 But continually recall to mind the days now past, when on
        being first enlightened you went through a great conflict
        and many sufferings.
010:033 This was partly through allowing yourselves to be made
        a public spectacle amid reproaches and persecutions,
        and partly through coming forward to share the sufferings
        of those who were thus treated.
010:034 For you not only showed sympathy with those who were imprisoned,
        but you even submitted with joy when your property was taken
        from you, being well aware that you have in your own selves
        a more valuable possession and one which will remain.
010:035 Therefore do not cast from you your confident hope, for it
        will receive a vast reward.
010:036 For you stand in need of patient endurance, so that,
        as the result of having done the will of God, you may receive
        the promised blessing.
010:037 For there is still but a short time and then "The coming One
        will come and will not delay.
010:038 But it is by faith that My righteous servant shall live;
        and if he shrinks back, My soul takes no pleasure in him."
010:039 But we are not people who shrink back and perish, but are among
        those who believe and gain possession of their souls.
011:001 Now faith is a well-grounded assurance of that for which we hope,
        and a conviction of the reality of things which we do not see.
011:002 For by it the saints of old won God's approval.
011:003 Through faith we understand that the worlds came into being,
        and still exist, at the command of God, so that what is seen
        does not owe its existence to that which is visible.
011:004 Through faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice
        than Cain did, and through this faith he obtained testimony
        that he was righteous, God giving the testimony by accepting
        his gifts; and through it, though he is dead, he still speaks.
011:005 Through faith Enoch was taken from the earth so that he did
        not see death, and he could not be found, because God
        had taken him; for before he was taken we have evidence
        that he truly pleased God.
011:006 But where there is no faith it is impossible truly to please Him;
        for the man who draws near to God must believe that there
        is a God and that He proves Himself a rewarder of those who
        earnestly try to find Him.
011:007 Through faith Noah, being divinely taught about things as yet unseen,
        reverently gave heed and built an ark for the safety of his family,
        and by this act he condemned the world, and became an heir
        of the righteousness which depends on faith.
011:008 Through faith Abraham, upon being called to leave home and go into
        a land which he was soon to receive for an inheritance, obeyed;
        and he went out, not knowing where he was going to.
011:009 Through faith he came and made his home for a time in a land
        which had been promised to him, as if in a foreign country,
        living in tents together with Isaac and Jacob, sharers with him
        in the same promise;
011:010 for he continually looked forward to the city which has
        the foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
011:011 Through faith even Sarah herself received strength to become
        a mother--although she was past the time of life for this--
        because she judged Him faithful who had given the promise.
011:012 And thus there sprang from one man, and him practically dead,
        a nation like the stars of the sky in number, and like the sands
        on the sea shore which cannot be counted.
011:013 All these died in the possession of faith.  And with the gipsies
        there will be a king And a thousand desperadoes just his
        style, With all their rags dyed in the blood of roses,
        Splashed with the blood of angels, and
of demons.
        And he will boss them with an awful voice.

        And with a red whip he will beat his wife.
He will be wicked on that sacred shore, And rattle cruel spurs against the
        rocks, And shake Calcutta's walls with circus bugles.
He will kill Brahmins there, in Kali's name, And please the thugs,
and blood-drunk of the earth.For this reason God is not ashamed to be
        called their God, for He has now prepared a city for them.
011:017 Through faith Abraham, as soon as God put him to the test,
        offered up Isaac.  Yes, he who had joyfully welcomed the promises
        was on the point of sacrificing his only son
011:018 with regard to whom he had been told, "It is through Isaac
        that your posterity shall be traced."
011:019 For he reckoned that God is even able to raise a man up from
        among the dead, and, figuratively speaking, it was from among
        the dead that he received Isaac again.
011:020 Through faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even in connexion
        with things soon to come.
011:021 Through faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of Joseph's sons,
        and, leaning on the top of his staff, worshipped God.