Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


How Britannia Came to Rule the Waves, updated to 1900, by W.H.G.
Kingston.

________________________________________________________________________

This is a history of the British Navy, originally written by Kingston,
but as he had died many years before 1900, and as it was felt that this
book ought to go up to that year, it was edited and re-issued by the
friends of Kingston, in particular by Henty.

Chamberlain therefore laid the matter before the government, and it was
thereupon decided to end the two treaties mentioned.

Notice was accordingly sent to both Germany and Belgium that the existing
treaties would cease on July 30, 1898.

Canada and the colonies are highly elated over this matter, for it is
understood that this is but the first step toward federation.

That the foreign Powers will be very much opposed to this plan is
a foregone conclusion.

The foreign journals are speaking very severely about it, and
saying that England is much mistaken if she thinks that such an
arrangement would make her powerful enough to dictate to the world.

The day when federation will be completed is still very far off,
however; the colonies themselves are not federated as yet, and it
is hard to suppose that they are ready to come together and be happy
as one country with England when they are still divided among
themselves.

Newfoundland is outside the Canadian federation; Cape Colony, in
South Africa, is divided into several states; Australia has five
separate states, each with its own governor and legislature.

These states should first be joined together before they can safely venture
to combine with the mother country in an alliance which would be
against the world.

Germany and Belgium are both incensed that England should seek to put an
end to the treaties. Some hot heads in Germany are urging their
Government to return blow for blow, and commence a tariff war
with England.
Some writers, indulging in the Darwinian theory of development, would
make us believe that the ironclad of the present day is the legitimate
offspring of the ancient coracle or wicker-work boat which is still to
be found afloat on the waters of the Wye, and on some of the rivers of
the east coast; but if such is the case, the descent must be one of many
ages, for it is probable that the Britons had stout ships long before
the legions of Cassar set their feet upon our shores.  I am inclined to
agree with an ancient writer who gives it as his opinion that the
British were always a naval people.  "For," says he, in somewhat quaint
phraseology, "as Britain was an island, the inhabitants could only have
come to it across the ocean in ships, and they could scarcely have had
ships unless they were nautically inclined."  The same writer asserts
that the Britons had vessels of large size long before the invasion of
the Romans, but that they either burnt them to prevent their falling
into the hands of the invaders, or that they were destroyed by the
Romans themselves, who then, adding insult to injury, stigmatised the
people as mere painted barbarians, whose sole mode of moving over the
waters of their coasts and rivers was in wicker baskets covered with
hides--the truth being, that these wicker-ribbed boats were simply the
craft used by the British fishermen on their coasts or streams.  How
could the hordes that in successive ages crossed the German Ocean have
performed the voyage unless they had possessed more efficient means of
conveyance than these afforded?  I must, therefore, agree with the
aforesaid ancient writer that they had stout ships, impelled by sails
and oars, which were afterwards employed either in commercial or
piratical enterprises.  The Britons of the southern shores of the island
possessed, he says, wooden-built ships of a size considerably greater
than any hide-covered barks could have been.  It is very certain that
many hundred years before the Christian era the Phoenicians visited the
coasts of Cornwall and Devonshire, and planted colonies there, which
retain to the present day their ancient peculiarities and customs, and
even many names of common things.  It is probable that these colonists,
well acquainted as they were with nautical affairs, kept up their
practical knowledge of shipbuilding, and formed a mercantile navy to
carry on their commerce with other countries, as well as ships fitted
for warfare to protect their ports from foreign invasion, or from the
attacks of pirates.

Many English nautical terms at present in use are clearly of Phoenician
origin.  Davit, for instance, is evidently derived from the Arabic word
_Davit_, a crooked piece of wood, similar in shape to that by which the
boats of a vessel are hoisted out of the water and hung up at her sides.
The word Caboose was the name given by the Phoenicians to the temple
dedicated to the god of fire, whom they worshipped, built on the decks
of their vessels; when a purer faith was introduced, it being found
convenient to cook dinners in the no longer sacred _Caboose_, the name
being retained, Blackie the cook took the place of the officiating
priest.  Caboose is at the present day the name of the kitchen-house on
the deck of a merchant-vessel.  Many other terms even now used by
seafaring people are derived directly or indirectly from the same
far-distant origin, as are several of the customs observed at the
present day.  I may mention some of them by-and-by.

SHIPS OF THE ANCIENTS.

The ancient Greeks and other Eastern nations had ships of considerable
size many hundred years before the Christian era.  The earliest mythical
stories describe long voyages performed by vessels of far more
complicated structure than the simple canoe.  The ships engaged in the
Trojan war each carried a hundred and twenty warriors, which shows that
at the period referred to they could not have been of very small
dimensions.  Although they might have been open, they had masts and
sails, and were propelled by rowers sitting on benches, while the oars
were fastened to the sides of the ship with leathern thongs.  Some were
painted black, others red.  When they arrived at their destination, the
bows were drawn up on shore; or when on a voyage, they at night anchored
by the stern, with cables secured to large stones.  At an early period
they had round bottoms and sharp prows.  We hear of ships with three
ranks of rowers, called triremes, B.C. 700, and long before that time
biremes, or ships with two ranks of oars, had been introduced.  In the
time of Cyrus, long sharp-keeled war-ships were used, having fifty
rowers, who sat in one row, twenty-five on each side of the ship.  About
B.C. 400, the practice of entirely decking over ships was introduced;
Themistocles induced the Athenians to build a fleet of two hundred sail,
and to pass a decree that every year twenty new triremes should be
built.  The Greeks even at that period, however, seldom ventured out
into the open sea, steering in the daytime by headlands or islands, and
at night by the rising and setting of different stars.

The Greeks possessed ships of war and merchant-vessels.  That a
war-galley was of large size may be inferred from the fact that she
carried two hundred seamen, besides on some occasions thirty Epibatoe--
literally, marines, trained to fight at sea.  These war-vessels moved
with wonderful rapidity, darting here and there with the speed of a
modern steam-vessel.  The ordinary war-ships were triremes, or had three
banks of oars.  The merchant-vessels or transports were much more bulky,
had round bottoms, and although rowers were employed on board, yet they
were propelled chiefly by their sails.  After the time of Alexander,
vessels with four, five, and even more ranks of rowers became general,
and ships are described with twelve and even thirty ranks of rowers and
upwards--but they were found of no practical use, as the crew on the
upper benches were unable to throw sufficient power into the immensely
long oars which it was necessary to employ.

Fully B.C. 500, the Carthaginians invented the quadremes, and about B.C.
400, Dionysius, first tyrant of Syracuse, whose ambition was to create a
powerful navy, built numerous vessels of the same description, unused
till that time by the Greeks.  The rowers in these ships, with numerous
banks of oars, could not have sat directly one above another, as some
suppose; but the feet of those on the upper tier must have rested on the
bench or thwart on which those immediately below them sat.  Thus the
tiers of oars were probably not more than two feet, if so much, one
above another; and supposing the lowest tier was two feet above the
water, the highest in the quadremes could not have been more than ten
feet, and even then the length of the oar of the upper tier must have
been very great, and it must have required considerable exertion on the
part of the rower to move it.  The most interesting part, however, of an
ancient ship to us at the present day was the beak or rostra.  At first
these beaks were placed only above water, and were formed in the shape
of a short thick-bladed sword, with sharp points, generally three, one
above another, and inclining slightly upwards, so that they might rip
open the planks of the vessels against which they ran.  They were
sometimes formed in the shape of a ram's head fixed to the end of a
beam; and hence in modern days we have adopted the name of rams, which
we give to ships of war built on the same principle.

After a time these beaks were fixed on to the bow of the ship below the
water, and were thus still more dangerous to other ships, when they
could strike an antagonist on the side.  The bow of a ship was generally
ornamented by the head of some animal, such as a wild boar or a wolf, or
some imaginary creature placed above the rostra.  On both sides of the
prow were painted eyes, such as are seen on the bows of boats and
vessels in the Mediterranean at the present day.  The upper part of the
prow was frequently ornamented with a helmet covered with bronze.  The
steersman or pilot was looked upon as the chief in rank among the crew,
and after him there came an officer whose duties were similar to those
of the boatswain, as he had the care of the gear and command over the
rowers.  The stern or puppis, from which we derive the term poop, was
elevated above the other parts of the deck, and here the helmsman had
his seat, sheltered by a shed frequently adorned with an image of the
tutelary deity of the vessel.  Sometimes he had a lantern hanging in
front of him, probably to enable him to see the magic compass, the use
of which was kept secret from the rest of the crew.  A circular shield
or shields also ornamented the stern.  Behind the helmsman was placed a
slight pole on which flew the dog-vane, to show the direction of the
wind.  In the centre of the ship was a raised platform on a level with
the upper part of the bulwarks, on which in battle the soldiers took
their stand to hurl their darts against the enemy.

The quadremes and quinqueremes carried from three to four hundred
rowers, and a ship belonging to Ptolemaeus Philopater is described as
carrying four thousand rowers.  From the surface of the water to the top
of the prow was forty-eight cubits, or seventy-two feet, and from the
water to the top of the stern fifty-three cubits, or nearly eighty feet;
she had thus sufficient room for forty ranks of rowers, and the oars of
the uppermost rank were thirty-eight cubits or fifty-seven feet long,
the handles of which were weighted with lead, so as to balance the outer
part, and thus render the long oars manageable.  The lower parts of the
holes through which the oars passed were covered with leather.  Till the
invention of the rudder, vessels were steered by two large oars, one on
either side of the stern, with very broad blades.  Ships were also
furnished with long poles, by which they could be shoved off the ground.
The triremes were fitted with two masts, and so were even smaller
vessels; the larger had three masts, the largest of which was nearest
the stern.  Gustaf. It isn't noble to take advantage of my misfortune,
Olof.
Well, say anything; you please, but you will have to pardon me if I
take back a part of it afterwards.

Olof. Truth isn't sold by the yard.

Gustaf. 'Sdeath! (Changing tone.) Well, suit yourself!

Olof (kneeling). Then I may say all that is in my mind?

Gustaf. You may.

Olof. Then, if I can only throw a single spark of doubt into the soul
of this sleeping people, my life will not have been wasted.
--It is to be a reformation, then?

Gustaf (after a pause). Yes. (Pause.)
Olof (timidly). And what is to become of the Anabaptists?

Gustaf. Need you ask? They must die.

Olof. Will Your Highness permit me one more question?

Gustaf. Tell me: what do those madmen want?

Olof. The sad thing is that they do not know it themselves, and if I
were to tell you--

Gustaf. Speak out!

[Gert enters quickly, pretending to be insane.]
Gustaf. Who are you to dare intrude here?

Gert. I want most humbly to beseech Your Highness to attest the correctness
of this document.

Gustaf. Wait till you are called.

Gert. Of course, I should like to, but the guards won't wait for me. I
escaped from prison, you see, because my place wasn't there.

Gustaf. Are you one of those Anabaptists?

Gert. Yes, I happened to get mixed up with them, but here I have a
certificate proving that I belong to the asylum, the third department
for incurables, cell number seven.

Gustaf (to Olof). Send word to the guard.

Gert. That isn't necessary, for I want nothing but justice, and it's
something the guard doesn't handle.

Gustaf (looking hard at Gert). I suppose you have had a share in those
outrages in the city churches?

Gert. Of course, I have! No sane person could behave so madly. We wanted
only to make a few minor alterations in the style. They seemed too low
in the ceiling.

Gustaf. What do you really want?

Gert. Oh, we want a great deal, although we haven't got through with
one-half of it yet. Yes, we want so many things and we want them so
quickly, that our reason cannot keep pace with them, and that's why it
has been lagging behind a little. Yes, we wish among other things to
change the furnishings a little in the churches, and to remove the
windows because the air seems so musty. Yes, and there is a lot more
we want, but that will have to wait for a while.

Gustaf (to Olof).

That's a perilous disease--for anything else it cannot be.

Olof. Who knows?

Gustaf. Now I am tired. You'll have a fortnight in which to get ready.
Your hand that you will help me!

Olof. I will do my part.

Gustaf. Give orders to have Rink and Knipperdollink sent to Malmö.

Olof. And then?

Gustaf. They'll have a chance to escape. That fool over there you
can send back to the asylum. Farewell! [Exit.]
Gert (shaking his clenched fist after Gustaf). Well, are we going?

Olof. Where?

Gert. Home. (Olof remains silent.) You don't wish to send your father-in-law
to the madhouse, do you, Olof?

Olof. You ask me what I wish--How about my duty?

Gert. Is there no duty above the royal command?

Olof. Are you beginning again?

Gert. What will Christine say if you put her father among madmen?

Olof. Tempt me not!

Gert. Do you see how difficult it is to serve the King? (Olof does not
answer.) I won't make you unhappy, my poor boy. Here's balm for your
conscience. (He takes out a document.)
Olof. What is it?

Gert. A certificate of health.

You see, it is necessary to be a madman among sane people, and sane
among mad men.

Olof. How did you get it?

Gert. Don't you think I deserve it?

Olof. I can't tell.

Gert. True enough: you don't yet dare.

[Enter Servant.]
Servant. Will you please go your way. They 're about to sweep.

Gert. Perhaps the place has to be aired, too?

Servant. Yes, indeed!

Gert. Don't forget to open the windows.

Servant. No, you may be sure, and it's needed, too, for we are not accustomed
to this kind of company.

Gert. Look here, old man--I carry a greeting from your father.

Servant. Oh, you do?

Gert. Perhaps you never knew him?

Servant. Why, certainly!

Gert. Do you know what he said?

Servant. No.

Gert. Wet the broom, he said, or you'll get the dust all over
yourself.

Servant. I don't understand.

Gert. Well, that's your only excuse.

[Exeunt Gert and Olof.]
Servant. Rabble!

SCENE 2
(Olof's Study. There are windows in the background, through which the
sun is shining into the room. Trees are visible outside. Christine is
standing at one of the windows, watering her flowers. While doing so
she is prattling to some birds in a cage. Olof is seated at a table,
writing. With an impatient mien he looks up and across the room to
Christine as if he wished her to keep quiet.

This happens several times, until at last Christine knocks down one of
the flower pots, when Olof taps the floor lightly with his foot.)
Christine. Oh, my poor little flower! Look, Olof, four buds were broken
off.

Olof. Yes, I see.

Christine. No, you don't. You must come over here.

Olof. My dear, I haven't time.

Christine. You haven't looked at the starlings which I bought for
you this morning. Don't you think they sing sweetly?

Olof. Rather.

Christine. Rather?

Olof. It's hard for me to work when they are screaming like that.

Christine. They are not screaming, Olof, but you seem to be more
fond of a night bird that does scream. Tell me, what is the meaning of
the owl that appears on your signet ring?

Olof. The owl is an ancient symbol of wisdom.

Christine. I think that's stupid! Wise people don't love the darkness.

Olof. The wise man hates the darkness and the night, but his keen eye
turns night into day.

Christine. Why are you always right, Olof? Can you tell me?

Olof. Because I know it pleases you, my dear, to let me be in the
right.

Christine. Now, you are right again.--What is that you are writing?

Olof. I am translating.

Christine. Read a little of it to me.

Olof. I don't think you could understand it.

Christine.

Why shouldn't I? Is it not in Swedish?

Olof. Yes, but it is too abstract for you.

Christine. Abstract? What does that mean?

Olof. You wouldn't understand if I told you, but if you don't understand
what I read to you, then you understand what is meant by
"abstract."
Christine (picking up a piece of half-finished embroidery).

Go on and read while I work at this.

Olof. Listen carefully, then, and forgive me if you find it
tedious.

Christine. I shall understand because I want to.

Olof (reading). "Matter when considered separate from form is something
wholly without predictability, indeterminable and indistinguishable.
For nothing can originate out of pure non-being, but only out of the
non-being of reality, which is synonymous with being as a possibility.
Being in its possibility is no more non-being than is reality.

For that reason every existence is a realized possibility. Thus matter
is to Aristotle a much more positive substratum than to Plato, who declares
it to be pure non-being. And thereby it becomes plain how Aristotle
could conceive of matter in its opposition to form as a positive
negativity."
Christine (throwing aside her work). Stop! Why is it that I cannot
understand that? Have I not the same mental faculties as you? I am
ashamed, Olof, because you have such a poor creature of a wife that
she cannot understand what you say. No, I will stick to my embroidery,
I will clean and dust your study, I will at least learn to read
your wishes in your eyes. I may become your slave, but never,
never shall I be able to understand you. Oh, Olof, I am not worthy
of you!

Why did you make me your wife? You must have over-valued me in a moment
of intoxication. Now you will regret it, and we shall both be unhappy.

Olof. Christine! Don't take it like that, dear! Come and sit here
by me. (He picks up the embroidery.) Will you believe me if I tell you
that I couldn't possibly do a thing like this? Never in my life could
I do it. Are you not then cleverer than I, and am I not the lesser
of us two?

Christine. But why can't you do it?

Olof. For the same reason that you couldn't understand me a moment ago:
I haven't learned how. And perhaps you will feel happy once more if
I tell you that you can learn to understand this book--which, by the by,
is not identical with me--while on the other hand, I could never learn
to do your work.

Christine. Why couldn't you?

Olof. Because I am not built that way and don't want to do it.

Christine. But if you wanted to?

Olof. Well, there, my dear, you have my weak point.

I could never want to do it.

Believe me, you are stronger than I, for you have power over your
own will, but I have not.

Christine. Do you think I could learn to understand that book of yours?

Olof. I am convinced of it. But you must not.

Christine. Am I still to be kept in ignorance?

Olof. No, no--understand me right! The moment you understood what I
understand, you would cease to think of me as--
Christine. A god--
Olof. Let it go at that! But believe me, you would lose what now puts you
above me--the power to control your own will--and then you would
be less than I, and I could not respect you. Do you see? It stakes
us happy to overvalue each other; let us keep that illusion.
Christine. Now I don't understand you at all, but I must trust you,
Olof. You are right!
Olof. Please leave me alone, Christine--I beg you!
Christine. Do I disturb you?
Olof. There are some very serious thoughts that occupy me. You know,
I expect something decisive to happen today. The King has abdicated
because the people would not do what he desired. To-day I shall
either reach my goal or have to start the fight all over
again.
Christine. May I not be happy to-day, Olof--on Midsummer Eve?
Olof. Why should you be so very happy to-day?
Christine. Why should I not--since I have been set free from slavery
and have become your wife?
Olof. Can you forgive me that my happiness is a little more sober
because it has cost me--a mother?
Christine. I know, and I feel it very deeply. But when your mother
learns of our marriage, she will forgive you and put her curse on
me. Whose burden will then be the heavier? However, it doesn't
matter, because it's borne for your sake. And this much I know:
that terrible struggles are awaiting you; that daring thoughts are
growing in your mind; and that I can never share your struggle,
never help you with advice, never defend you against those that
vilify you--but still I must look on, and through it all I must go
on living in my own little world, employing myself with petty things
which you do not appreciate, but would miss if they were not attended
to. Olof, I cannot weep with you, so you must help me to make you
smile with me.
Come down from those heights which I cannot attain. Leave your
battles on the hilltops and return some time to our home. As I
cannot ascend to you, you must descend to me for a moment.
Forgive me, Olof, if I talk childishly! I know that you are a man
sent by the Lord, and I have felt the blessing with which your words
are fraught. But you are more than that--you are a man, and you are
my husband--or at least ought to be. You won't fall from your exalted
place if you put aside your solemn speech now and then and let the
clouds pass from your forehead. You are not too great, are you, to
look at a flower or listen to a bird? I put the flowers on your
table, Olof, in order that they might rest your eyes--and you ordered
the maid to take them out because they gave you a headache. I tried
to cheer the lonely silence of your work by bringing the birds--whose
song you call screaming. I asked you to come to dinner a while
ago--you hadn't time. I wanted to talk to you--you hadn't time. You
despise this little corner of reality--and yet that is what you
have set aside for me. You don't want to lift me up to you--but try
at least not to push me further down. I will take away everything
that might disturb your thoughts. You shall have peace from me--and
from my rubbish! (She throws the flowers out of the window, picks
up the birdcage, and starts to leave.)
Olof. Christine, dear child, forgive me! You don't understand
me!
Christine. Always the same: "You don't understand me!" Oh, I know
now what it means. In that moment in the sacristy I matured so
completely that I reached my second childhood at once!
Olof. I'll look at your birds and prattle with your flowers, dear
heart.
Christine (putting aside the bird-cage). No, the time for prattle
is gone by--from now on we shall be serious. You need not fear my
boisterous happiness. It was only put on for your sake, and as it
doesn't suit your sombre calling, I'll--(She bursts into tears.)

Olof (putting his arms around her and kissing her.) Christine!
Christine! You are right! Please pardon me!
Christine. You gave me an unlucky gift, Olof, when you gave me
freedom, for I don't know what to do with it. I must have some one
to obey!
Olof. And so you shall, but don't let us talk of it any more. Let
us eat now--in fact, I feel quite hungry.
Christine (pleased). Do you really know how to be hungry? (At that
moment she looks out of the window and makes a gesture of dismay.)
Go on, Olof, and I'll be with you in a moment. I only want to get
things in a little better order in here.
Olof (as he goes out). Don't let me wait so long for you as you
have had to wait for me.
(Christine folds her hands as if praying and takes up a position
indicating that she is waiting far somebody about to enter from the
street. Pause.)
[Enter Olof's Mother. She passes Christine without looking at her.]
Mother. Is Master Olof at home?
Christine (who has started to meet her in a friendly way, is taken
aback for a moment; then she answers in the same tone). No, but if
you care to be seated, he will be here soon.
Mother. Thank you! (She seats herself. Pause.) Bring me a glass of
water. (Christine waits on her.) Now you can leave me.
Christine. It is my housewifely duty to bear you company.
Mother. I didn't know that the housekeeper of a priest could call
herself a housewife.
Christine. I am the wife of Olof with the sanction of the Lord.
Don't you know that we are married?
Mother. You are a harlot--that's what I know!
Christine. That word I do not understand.
Mother. You are the same kind of woman as she with whom Master Olof
was talking that evening in the beer-shop.
Christine. The one that looked so unhappy? Yes, I don't feel very
happy.
Mother. Of course not! Take yourself out of my sight! Your presence
shames me!
Christine (on her knees). For the sake of your son, don't heap abuse
on me!
Mother. With a mother's authority I command you to leave my son's
house, the threshold of which you have defiled.
Christine. As a housewife I open my door to whom I may choose to
receive. I should have closed it to you, had I been able to guess
what language you would use.
Mother. Big words, indeed! I command you to leave!
Christine. With what right do you force yourself into this house
in order to drive me out of my own home? You have borne a son, and
raised him--that was your duty, your mission, and you may thank
your God for being permitted to fill that mission so well, which
is a good fortune not granted to everybody. Now you have reached
the edge of the grave. Why not resign yourself before the end comes?
Or have you raised your son so poorly that he is still a child and
needs your guidance? If you want gratitude, come and look for it,
but not in this way. Or do you think it is the destiny of a child
to sacrifice its own life merely to show you gratitude? His mission
is calling: "Go!" And you cry to him:
"Come to me, you ingrate!" Is he to go astray--is he to waste his
powers, that belong to his country, to mankind--merely for the
satisfaction of your private little selfishness? Or do you imagine
that the fact of having borne and raised him does even entitle you
to gratitude? Did not your life's mission and destiny lie in that?
Should you not thank the Lord for being given such a high mission?
Or did you do it only that you might spend the rest of your life
clamoring for gratitude? Don't you see that by using that word
"gratitude" you tear down all that you have built up before? And
what makes you presume that you have rights over me?
Is marriage to mean a mortgaging of my free will to anybody whom
nature has made the mother or father of my husband--who unfortunately
could not exist without either? You are not _my_ mother. My troth
was not pledged to you when I took Olof as my husband. And I have
sufficient respect for my husband not to permit anybody to insult
him, even if it be his own mother.
That's why I have spoken as I have!
Mother. Alas, such are the fruits borne by the teachings of my
son!
Christine. If you choose to revile your son, it had better be in
his presence. (She goes to the door and calls.) Olof!
Mother. Such guile already!
Christine. Already? It's nothing new, I think, although I didn't
know I had it until it was needed.

[Enter Olof.]
Olof. Mother! I am right glad to see you!
Mother. Thanks, my son--and good-bye!
Olof. Are you going? What does that mean? I wish to talk to
you.
Mother. No need! She has said all there is to say. You will not
have to show me the door.
Olof. In God's name, mother, what are you saying? Christine, what
does this mean?
Mother (about to leave). Good-bye, Olof! This is more than I can
ever forgive you!
Olof (trying to hold her back). Stay and explain, at least!
Mother. It was not worthy of you! To send her to tell me that you
owe me nothing and need me no more! Oh, that was cruel! [Exit.]
Olof. What did you say, Christine?
Christine. I don't remember, because there were so many things which
I had never dared to think, but which I must have dreamt while
father kept me still enslaved.
Olof. I don't know you any more, Christine.
Christine. No, I begin to feel a little lost myself.
Olof. Were you unkind to mother?I suspect that they had a strong preference for the
former.

After the Saxons had driven the ancient inhabitants of the island out of
the more fertile portions of the country, and had made themselves,
according to their notions, pretty comfortable in their new homes; they,
in a little time, in their turn, were sadly pestered by foreign
invaders.  These were the Danes.  Those hardy sons of the North, still
more wild and fierce than the Saxons, and still less scrupulous in their
proceedings, pleased with the appearance of the country which they had
come over to look at, settled themselves in every nook and corner of Old
England in which they could haul up their ships, and find a resting
place for their feet.  I cannot help feeling a great respect for those
old sea-kings.  They were heathens, and we must judge of them by the
light which they possessed, and not by any standard acknowledged in the
present civilised world.  Bold, enterprising, and sagacious, their own
country confined and barren, they looked on the wide ocean as the only
worthy field for the employment of their energies.  They loved it for
itself, too; they were born on it, or within the sound of its surges;
they lived on it, they fought on it, and it was their wish through life
to die on it, as if only on its boundless expanse their free spirits
could be emancipated from this mortal coil.  This same spirit still
exists and animates the breasts of the officers and men of our navy, of
our vast mercantile marine; and, though mentioned last, not certainly in
a less degree of the owners of the superb yacht fleets which grace the
waters of the Solent, of the Bay of Dublin, of Plymouth Sound, of the
mouth of the Thames, and indeed of every harbour and roadstead round our
shores.  Yet the poles sleep still in their icy virginal sanctity, and
the blue waves through which that papal line passes shift and shimmer
and roll in their free salt loneliness, unaffected by his demarcation;
the heathen also, it appears, since that distant day, have had something
to say to their disposition. If he had slept upon it another night, poor
Pope, it might have occurred to him that west and east might meet on
a meridian situated elsewhere on the globe than one hundred miles west
of the Azores; and that the Portuguese, who for the moment had
nothing heathen except Africa left to them, might according to his
demarcation strike a still richer vein of heathendom than that
granted to Spain.

But the holy Pontiff, bull neck, low forehead, impudent prominent nose,
and sensual lips notwithstanding, is exhausted by his cosmographical
efforts, and he lets it rest at that. Later, when Spain discovers
that her privileges have been abated, he will have to issue
another Bull; but not to-day. Sufficient unto the day are the Bulls
thereof. For the moment King proposes and Pope disposes; but the
matter lies ultimately in the hands of the two eternal protagonists,
man and God.

In the meantime here are six heathen alive and well, or at any rate
well enough to support, willy-nilly, the rite of holy baptism. They
must have been sufficiently dazed and bewildered by all that had
happened to them since they were taken on board the Admiral's ship, and
God alone knows what they thought of it all, or whether they thought
anything more than the parrots that screamed and fluttered and
winked circular eyes in the procession with them.

Doubtless they were willing enough; and indeed, after all they had come
through, a little cold water could not do them any harm. So baptized
they were in Barcelona; pompously baptized with infinite state and ceremony,
the King and Queen and Prince Juan officiating as sponsors. Queen
Isabella, after the manner of queens, took a kindly feminine interest in
these heathen, and in their brethren across the sea. She had seen a
good deal of conquest, and knew her Spaniard pretty intimately; and
doubtless her maternal heart had some misgivings about the ultimate
happiness of the gentle, handsome creatures who lived in the sunshine
in that distant place. She made their souls her especial care, and
honestly believed that by providing for their spiritual conversion
she was doing them the greatest service in her power.

She provided from her own private chapel vestments and altar furniture
for the mission church in Espanola; she had the six exiles in Barcelona
instructed under her eye; and she gave Columbus special orders to
inflict severe punishments on any one who should offer the natives
violence or injustice of any kind.

It must be remembered to her credit that in after days, when slavery and
an intolerable bloody and brutish oppression had turned the paradise of
Espanola into a shambles, she fought almost singlehanded, and with
an ethical sense far in advance of her day, against the system of
slavery practised by Spain upon the inhabitants of the New World.

The dignities that had been provisionally granted to Columbus before his
departure on the first voyage were now elaborately confirmed; and in
addition he was given another title--that of Captain-General of the large
fleet which was to be fitted out to sail to the new colonies. He was
entrusted with the royal seal, which gave him the right to grant letters
patent, to issue commissions, and to Appoint deputies in the royal
name.
A coat-of-arms was also granted to him in which, in its original form,
the lion and castle of Leon and Castile were quartered with islands of
the sea or on a field azure, and five anchors or on a field azure.
This was changed from time to time, chiefly by Columbus himself, who
afterwards added a continent to the islands, and modified the blazonry
of the lion and castle to agree with those on the royal arms--a piece of
ignorance and childish arrogance which was quite characteristic of
him.

[A motto has since been associated with the coat-of-arms, although
it is not certain that Columbus adopted it in his lifetime.
Alfred, it is said, caused
surveys to be made of the coasts of Norway and Lapland, and sent out
ships to the polar regions in search of whales.

I have met with an old writer, who describes a far more remarkable
achievement than any of these.  He was a monk, of course, and his
knowledge of geography we may suspect was rather limited, when he tells
us that in the reign of Alfred a voyage was performed to the Indies by
the way of the north-east--that is to say, round the north of Asia--
under the command of a certain monk, Swithelm, who, as his reward, was
made Bishop of Sherburn.  The mission was undertaken to aid the
Christians of a place called Saint Thomas, on the continent of India,
and we are assured that the curiosities which were brought back, and are
fully described, are exactly like the productions found in India, when
it became more fully known.  The expedition, if it ever took place, must
have proceeded down the African coast and round the Cape of Good Hope.
If so, the seamen of Britain, with a monk as their commander, succeeded
in an enterprise which, having been totally forgotten, immortalised
Bartholomew Diaz as the discoverer of the Stormy Cape full six centuries
afterwards.  We must not place more faith in the narrative than it
deserves, but one thing is certain, that if any long or perilous voyages
were performed, the prints of ships pretending to be those of the days
of King Alfred found on tapestries, old illustrated histories and other
works are not slightly incorrect.  When a boy, I used very strongly to
suspect that if a ship had ever been built after the model of the prints
exhibited in the History of England, she would either, as sailors say,
have turned the turtle directly she was launched, or have gone boxing
about the compass beyond the control of those on board her; but as to
standing up to a breeze, or going ahead, I saw that that was impossible.
I have since discovered, with no little satisfaction, when examining
into the subject, that the verbal descriptions of the ships of those
days give a very different idea to that which the prints and tapestry
work do, which so offended my nautical instincts.

Large substantial vessels, we may depend on it, existed in those days,
and though encumbered with much top hamper, and rigged only with square
sails, they did not carry the high towers nor the absurdly cut sails
which they are represented to have done in all the illustrated histories
I have seen.  The celebrated galleys of King Alfred are described by an
old writer as very long, narrow, and deep vessels, heavily ballasted on
account of the high deck on which the soldiers and seamen stood above
the heads of the rowers.  We cannot here omit also to declare and testify
against the constitution of the British Parliament, not only upon the
consideration of the foresaid grounds and reasons, but also upon the
account of the sinful mixture and unlawful admission of bishops and
churchmen, to have a share in the legislative power, or in any place
in civil courts or affairs, and thereto act or vote forensically in
civil matters, a thing expressly forbidden and discharged by Christ
the only Head and Lord of His own house, whose Kingdom, as Mediator, is
not of this world, but purely spiritual; and so the officers in
His house must be spiritual; so that the civil power of Church men
is a thing inconsistent and incompatible with that sacred and
spiritual function.

Upon which consideration, how palpable a sin will it be to subject to, or
accept of any oath that may be imposed by the said British Parliament,
for the maintenance and support of such an Union, or for recognoseing,
owning and acknowledging the authority of the said Parliament, and that
because of our swearing, and promising subjection to the said
Parliament, we do thereby homologate the foresaid sinful constitution,
and swear, and promise subjection to the bishops of England who
are a considerable part of that Parliament, and so we shall be bound
and oblidged to maintain and uphold them in their places, dignities,
and offices, which is contrar to the Word of God and our covenants,
while the very first article of the Solemn League oblidges us to
endeavour the reformation of the religion in the kingdom of England,
in doctrine, worship, discipline, and government, according to the
Word of God, as well as in Scotland.

And it is very well known that the government of bishops is not according
to the Word of God, but contrar to it, and likeways contrar the
second article of the Solemn League whereby we are obliged to the extirpation
of prelacy, that is, church government by archbishops, bishops,
&c., which we will be obliged by such an oath to maintain and defend.
And besides, from the consideration of the person that by the patrons
and establishes of this Union, and by the second article of the Union
itself, is nominated and designed to succeed after the decease of
the present Queen Anne, in the government of these nations, to wit the
Prince of Hanover, who hath been bred and brought up in the Luthren
religion, which is not only different from, but even in many things
contrar unto that purity, in doctrine, reformation, and religion,
we in these nations had attained unto, as is very well known.
Now, the admitting such a person to reign over us, is not only contrar
to our Solemn League and Covenant, but to the very Word of God itself;
requiring and commanding one from among their brethren, and not a
stranger who is not a brother, to be set over them: whereby
undoubtedly is understood, not only such who were of consanguinity
with the people of the land, but even such as served and worshipped
the God of Israel; and not any other, and that in the true and
perfect way of worshipping and serving Him, which He Himself hath
appointed, as they then did, to which this intended succession is
quite contrary.

And besides this, he is to be solemnly engaged and sworn to the
prelats of England, to maintain, protect, and defend them in all their
dignities, dominion, and revenues, to the preventing and excluding
all reformation out of these nations for ever.

And upon the like and other weighty reasons and considerations (as
popish education, conversation, etc.) We protest against, and disown
the pretended Prince of Wales from having any just right to rule or
govern these nations, or to be admitted to the Government thereof:
and whereas (as is reported) we are maliciously aspersed by these who
profess themselves of the Presbyterian perswasion, especially the
Laodicean preachers, that we should be accessory to the advancement
of him whom they call the Prince of Wales to the throne of Britain:
Therefore to let all concerned be fully assured of the contrary,
We protest and testifie against all such so principled to have any
right to rule in thir lands, because we look upon all such to be
standing in a stated opposition to God and our covenanted work of
reformation.

  Not that we contemn, deny or
  reject civil government
  and governours (as
  our former declared principles
  to the world make evident) but are willing to maintain, own, defend
and subject to all such governours as shall be admitted according
to our Covenants, and laws of the nation, and act in defence of our
covenanted work of reformation, and in defence of the nations ancient
liberties and priviledges, according to the laudable laws and
practique of this kingdom.

And further, We cannot but detest, abominate and abhor, and likeways
protest against the vast and unlimitted tolleration of error and sectaries,
which, as a necessary and native consequence of this Union, will
inevitably follow thereupon, and whereby a plain and patent way is laid
open for these errors, which will certainly have a bad influence upon
all the parts, pieces, and branches of the reformation, both in
doctrine, worship, discipline, and government, yea even upon the most
momentuous and fundamental articles of the Christian faith: For
hereby Anabaptists, Erastians, Socinians, Arminians, Quakers,
Theists, Atheists, and Libertines of all kinds, with many others
(which abound and swarm in that land) will come crouding and thronging
in among us, venting and vomiting up their damnable and hellish
tenets and errors to the destruction of souls, and great dishonour
of God in many respects, and that without any check or control by
civil authority, as is evident from the present practice of England,
as having gotten full and free libertie for all this by means of
this accursed Union.

How then ought not every one to be affrayed, when incorporating themselves
with such a people so exposed to the fearful and tremendous judgments
of God, because of such gross impieties and immoralities (not that our
land is free of such hainous wickednesses as may draw down a judgment,
but there these evils are to a degree) for what unparalelled, universal,
national perjury is that land guilty of, both toward God and man (though
there were no more) by the breach of the Solemn League and Covenant
that they once made with this nation, for the defence and reformation
of religion:
but also what abominable lasciviousness, licentiousness, luxury, arrogancy,
impiety, pride and insolence, together with the vilest of whoredoms,
avowed breach of Sabbath, and most dreadful blasphemies, yea, the
contempt of all that's sacred and holy; gets liberty to reign and
predomine without check or challenge, so that joining with such
people, cannot but expose us, as well as them, to the just judgment
of God, while continuing in these sins.

And here we cannot pass by the unfaithfulness of the present ministers
(not that we judge all of them to be cast in the same ballance) who at
the first beginning of this work seemed to be so zealously set against
it, and that both in their speeches, sermons and discourses (which
was duty).

But yet in a very little after flinched from, and became generally so
dumb, silent, indifferent or ambiguous to the admiration of many,
so that people knew not what to construct.

But from what cause or motive they were so influenced, they know best
themselves: Sure their duty both to God and man was, to shew and
declare how shameful, hurtful, and highly sinful this course was as so
circumstantiat. And if ministers faithfulness and zeal to the concerns
of Christ had led them to such freedom and plainness, as was duty
in such a matter, and had discovered how contrary this Union was to the
fundamental laws and sworn principles, by all probability they might
have had such influence as to stop such an unhallowed and unhappy
project. But it seems their policy hath utwitted their piety, their
pleasing of Man in conniving at, if not complying with their design
that was carried on, hath weighed more with them, than the pleasing
of God, in their witnessing and testifying against it.

(But to say no more) by the negligence of ministers on the one hand,
and the politicks of statesmen on the other hand, this wicked and
naughty business has been carryed on and accomplished, to the provocking
of God, enslaving the nation, and bringing the same under manifest
perjury and breach of Covenant. But how to evite the judgments pronunced
against such, we know not, but by returning to their first love, taking
up their first ground, and standing to sworn Covenants, solemnly unto
God, and adhereing to the cause of God, and the faithful testimonies
of this Church, and seeking back unto the old path, abandoning and
shaking off and forsaking all these God-provoking and land-ruining
courses; we say, We know and are perswaded, there can be no mean
to retrive us in this land, but by unfeigned repentance, and returning
unto Him from whom we have so deeply revolted.

And among the politicks of this Age, it could not but be reckoned the
wisdom of the nation, if ever they get themselves recovered out of the
snare, to animadvert upon all such, as have had any hand in the contriving
or manadging it, as being enemies both to God and their country; which
course, if it had been taken in former times, with such who were
enemies to religion and liberty, it would have deterred such from being
so active in this fatal stroak.

Upon these and many more weighty considerations, plain and demonstrable
evils in this complex mass of sin and misery, all the true lovers of Zion
who desire to be found faithful to God, to their vows and sworn principles,
and who seek to be found faithful in their generation and duty of
the day: and all such, who desire, love and respect the honour,
independency, liberty and priviledge of their native countrey,
especially in such a juncture, when long threatned judgments are
so imminent, and religion and liberty as it were, in their last
breathing, will easily find it to be their bound duty (as they would
not conspire with adversaries to religion and liberty) to show no
favour or respect, and give no encouragement or assistance that may
tend to the upholding or supporting this Union; but that it is their
duty and concernment (as well as ours) to testify and declare against
the same, and to concurr with their utmost endeavours to stop and
hinder the same, and to deny their accession to, connivance at, or
complyance with any thing that may tend to the continuing such an
unsupportable yoke upon themselves or their posterity.

And now to draw this, our protestation, to a conclusion, we heartily
invite, and in the bowels of our Lord Jesus Christ intreat all
in both nations, who tender the glory of God, the removing the
causes of His wrath, indignation and imminent judgments upon us,
and who desire the continuance of His tabernacle, gospel ordinances,
and gracious presence among us, and seek and contend earnestly for
the faith once delivered to the saints; and labour to follow the
footsteps of these who throu' faith and patience inherit the promise,
the noble cloud of witnesses who have gone before us; we say, we
heartily invite and intreat such to consider their ways, and to
come and join in a harmonious, zealous, and faithful withstanding
all and every thing that may be like a hightning, or cope-stone of
our defections, and particularly to join with us (according to our
reformation, Covenants, Confession of Faith, and testimonies of our
Church, as agreeable to the sacred and unerring rule of faith and
manners, the Holy Scriptures) in this our protestation and testimony.

And for these effects, we desire that this our protestation may be a
standing testimony to present and succeeding ages, against the sinfulness
of this land-ruining, God-provoking, soul destroying and
posterity-enslaving and ensnaring Union, and this _ad futurum rei
memoriam_. And to evite the brand and odium of passing the bounds of
our station, and that this our protestation may be brought to the view
of the world; we have thought fit to publish and leave a copy of
the same at Sanquhar by a part of our number, having the unanimous
consent of the whole so to do.

_Given on the 2nd day of October, 1707._

SECESSION FROM THE REVOLUTION CHURCH.[21]

We, Mr. John Mackmillan, present minister of the Gospel at Balmaghie, and
Mr. John Mackneil, Preacher of the Gospel, being most odiously
and invidiously represented to the world as schismaticks, separatists
and teachers of unsound and divisive doctrine, tending to the detriment
of Church and State, and especially by Ministers with whom we were
embodied, while there remained any hope of getting grievances
redressed.

Therefore, that both Ministers and Professors may know the
unaccountableness of such aspersions, let it be considered that this
backsliding Church (when we with others might have been big with expectations
for advancement in Reformation) continued in their defections from time
to time, still, as occasion was given, evidencing their readiness
to comply with every new backsliding course, instance that of the
Oath of Alledgance, and Bond of Assurance to the present Queen;
which additional step to the former gave occasion and rise to our
unhappy contentions and divisions.

And now at this time, for the glory of God, the vindication of truth and
of ourselves (as conscience and reason obligeth us), to make evident
to the world the groundlesness of these aspersions and calumnies as
renters and dividers, and particularly in the commissions late odious and
malicious lybel, wherein are contained many gross falsehoods, such as
swearing persons not to pay cess, and travelling throw the country with
scandalous persons in arms, which, as they are odious culumnies in
themselves, so they will never be proven by witnesses: and, as to our
judgment anent the cess, we reckon it duty in the people of God
to deny and withhold all support, succour, aid, or assistance that
may contribute to the upholding or strengthening the man of sin,
or any of the adversaries of truth, (as the Word of God instructs
us) or for supporting any in such a way, as tending to the establishing
the kingdom of Satan, and bringing down the kingdom of the Son of
God, in a course tending this way, how deeply these nations are
engadged (contrar to the Word of God and our indispensible oaths
and covenants, whereby these lands were solemnly devoted to God)
is too palpable and plain, especially in the sinful terms of the
late God provoking, religion destroying, and land ruining union:
we judge it most necessary to give to the world a brief and short
account of our principles in what we own or disown (referring for
larger, more ample information, to several protestations and
testimonies given by some of the godly heretofore at different times
and places) and hereby that truth may be vindicated and our consciences
exonered.

We declare to the world our hearty desire to embrace and adhere to the
written Word of God, contained in the Holy Scriptures of the Old and
New Testament, as the only and compleat rule and adequat umpire of faith
and manners, and whatever is founded thereupon, and agreeable thereunto;
such as our Confession of Faith; Larger and Shorter Catechisms; Directory
for Worship; Covenants National and Solemn League; the acknowledgment
of sin and engagement to duties; causes of God's wrath, and the ordinary
and perpetual officers of Christ's appointment, as pastors, doctors,
elders and deacons, and the form of Church government, commonly called
Presbyterian.

Next, we declare our firm adherence to all the faithful contendings
for truth, whether of old or of late, by ministers and professors,
and against whatever sinful courses, whether more refined or more
gross, and particularly the public resolutions Cromwel's usurpation,
the toleration of sectaries, and heresies in his time, and against
the sacraligious usurpation and tyranny of Charles II., the
unfaithfulness of ministers and professors in complying with him,
and accepting his indulgences first and last.

And in a word to everything agreeable to the matter of this our
testimony, as it is declared in page 25 and 26 of the Informatory
Vindication; printed _Anno_ 1687.

Likeways, we declare our adherence unto the testimony against the
abominable toleration granted by the Duke of York, and given in
to the ministers at Edinburgh, by that faithful minister and now
glorified martyr, Mr. James Renwick, January 17, 1688. And to whatever
wrestlings or contendings have been made, or testimonies given against
the endeavours of any in their subtle and sedulous striving to insinuate
and engadge us in a sinful confederacy with a malignant interest
and cause, contrar to the Word of God, our Solemn League and Covenant,
and testimony of this Church.

Next, we bear testimony against persons being invested with royal power
and authority in thir covenanted lands, without a declaration of their
hearty complyance with, and approbation of the National and Solemn League
and Covenant and engadgment to prosecute the ends thereof, by consenting
to and ratifying all acts and laws made in defence of these Covenants,
agreeable to the Word of God, and laudable acts and practise of this
kirk and kingdom in our best times.

Moreover, we bear testimony against all confederacies and associations
with popish prelats and malignants, contrary to the Word of God and
our solemn engadgments.

The magistrats adjourning and dissolving of assemblies, and not allowing
them time to consider and exped their affairs: their appointing them
dyets and causes of Fasts, particularly that in January 14: and the
Thanksgiving Aug. 26, _Anno_ 1708, which is a manifest encroachment upon,
and destructive to the priviledges of this Church: their protecting of
curats in the peaceable exercise of their ministry, some in kirks,
others in meeting houses, yea, even in the principal city of the
kingdom, if qualified according to law by swearing the Oath of Alledgance.
Their not bringing unto condign punishment enemies to the
Covenant and cause of God, but advancing such to places of power
and trust: all which we here bear testimony against.

Next, we bear testimony against lukewarmness and unfaithfulness in ministers
anent the corruptions and defections the Church was guilty of in the
late times, not yet purged and removed by censures, and other ways,
as was duty. And their not leaving faithful and joint testimonies
against all the encroachments made upon the Church by the civil
powers, since the year 1690. And we bear testimony against the settling
the constitution of this Church, according as it was established in the
year 1592. And the ministers not testifying against this deed, seems
to import a disowning all the reformation attained to betwixt 1638 and
1649 inclusive. At least cowardice in not daring to avouch the same,
or their being ashamed to own it, because many famous and faithful
acts of assemblies, especially about the year 1648, would have made
them lyable to censure, even to the length of silencing and deposition;
for their defection and unfaithfulness during the late times, of
the lands apostasie.

Particularly, the weakning the hands and discouraging the hearts of
the Lord's suffering people, by their bitter expressions, and
aspersions cast on them for their zeal and tenderness, which would not
allow them to comply with a wicked, arbitrary and bloody council as many
of them did. Their not renewing the Covenant buried for upwards of
fifty years by the greatest part of the land, contrar to the former
practise of this Church, especially after some grosser steps of
defection. Their receiving of perjured curats into ministerial communion,
without covenant tyes and obligations and evident signs of their repentance,
contrary to the former practise of this Church. Their receiving some
lax tested men, and curates, elders, into kirk offices, without some
apparent signs at least of their repentance in a publick appearance,
contrar to the former practise of this Church in such like cases, evident
by the Acts of the Assemblies.
It was probably introduced into England before the time of Richard the
First, for in 1195 a payment was made by the king for carrying Greek
fire and other implements from London to Nottingham.

Fire-ships were, indeed, of far earlier date than the days of Richard
the First.  We find them in use among the Tyrians in the time of
Alexander the Great.  It is related that at the siege of Tyre, when a
mole was being constructed to join that city to the continent, the
inhabitants, having loaded a large ship heavily by the stern with sand
and stones, for the purpose of raising her head out of the water, and
having filled her with all sorts of combustible matter, they drove her
violently with sails and oars against the mole, when they set fire to
her, the seamen escaping in their boats.  The mole being in a great
measure built of wood, with wooden towers on it, was by this device
utterly destroyed.  Thus we see that the Tyrians invented and
successfully employed fire-ships before the Christian era.  We are apt
to consider many other discoveries modern which were known to the
ancients.  For instance, an Italian author, some three centuries ago,
describes a ship weighed in his time out of the lake of Riccia, where it
had lain sunk and neglected for above thirteen hundred years.  It was
supposed to have belonged to Trajan.

He observed, he says, "that the pine and cypress of which it was built
had lasted most remarkably.  On the outside it was built with double
planks, daubed over with Greek pitch, caulked with linen rags, and over
all a sheet of lead, fastened on with little copper nails."

Here we have caulking and sheathing together known in the first century
of the Christian era; for, of course, the sheet of lead nailed over the
outside with copper nails was sheathing, and that in great perfection,
the copper nails being used instead of iron, which, when once rusted in
the water by the working of the ship, soon lose their hold, and drop
out.

Captain Saris, in a voyage to Japan in the year 1613, describes a junk
of from eight to ten hundred tons burden, sheathed all over with iron.
As in the days of the Plantagenets the country had not the advantage of
possessing a Board of Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, nor, indeed,
any office in which the records of the ships built, altered, rebuilt, or
pulled to pieces were kept, or, indeed, any naval records whatever, we
are without the means of ascertaining what special improvements were
introduced either in shipbuilding or in the fitting or manning of ships
during each particular reign.  Indeed, for several centuries very slow
progress appears to have been made in that art, which ultimately tended
to raise England to the prosperous state she has so long enjoyed.


CHAPTER THREE.

THE NAVY IN THE DAYS OF THE PLANTAGENETS--FROM A.D. 1087 TO A.D. 1327.

William Rufus, in 1087, had scarcely a vessel which deserved the name of
a ship of war.  The trade of the country, however, was carried on by
small craft, of which there were great numbers; there remained also some
of the transports of former years, but William when expecting the
invasion of his kingdom by his brother Robert, found to his sorrow that
he possessed no ships of sufficient size to compete with those of the
Normans.  Being unwilling to weaken his land forces by sending them on
board such ships as he possessed, he engaged all the large
trading-vessels of the country, and invited mariners to embark in the
transports.  He gave commissions, also, to all the traders to sink,
burn, and destroy every Norman vessel they could meet with, and offered
considerable rewards for every successful action.  Besides this, he
published proclamations inviting all private persons to fit out vessels
on their own account, encouraging them with the promise of similar
rewards.  Numbers of traders accepted the commission, and the sea
swarmed with privateers.  They were of small size, but were manned by
bold seamen, who encouraged one another by their numbers.  Robert, who
was aware that the English had no fleet, not expecting any resistance at
sea, thought only of loading his transports with as many men as they
could carry.  His ships were therefore ill-prepared for action, being
overloaded with men, and he little expected any opposition from the
small ships of the English.

The latter, meantime, obtained exact intelligence of the movements of
the Normans, while they kept secret their own forces and plans.  The
Normans at length sailed, and had no time to laugh at the smallness of
the English ships before they began to quake at their numbers.  The
latter bore down upon them like a pack of hounds on a stag, and,
encouraged by the promised rewards, fought with the greatest fury.  In
vain the Normans attempted to fly; they were overtaken and overpowered
by the multitude of their assailants.  The number that perished by the
sword and drowning was astonishing; those who attempted to escape were
overtaken, and shared the fate of the others; and but few got back to
Normandy with the news of their defeat.  Never was a sea-fight in which
personal courage was more nobly exhibited; never a more complete
victory, nor ever, apparently, slighter means of obtaining it.

The Normans called the English pirates, but they were properly
privateers, and the original armament to which they were united, though
a poor one, was a royal force.  William punctually paid the promised
rewards.

People were generally too pleasantly employed in those mediaeval days in
knocking their neighbours on the head, or in storming and demolishing
their castles, and other similar pastimes on shore, to attend to any
subject so unromantic as shipbuilding or navigation.

Still the monarchs of the Plantagenet race had ships of their own; but
their chief notion of keeping up a navy was by laying taxes on the
sea-ports, on commerce, and on the fisheries, thus crippling the surest
means by which a fleet could be maintained.  The chief naval events of
the intermediate reigns have been described in the preceding chapter.

John, we are told, had a naval establishment of ships and officers, with
certain boards for its government.  He had not many vessels, however, as
he chiefly depended on the Cinque Ports to furnish him with ships, while
he laid an embargo on merchant-vessels in case of necessity; and turned
them into ships of war.  He must have had a great notion, however, of
keeping up the dignity of England on the ocean, as he passed an
ordinance that all ships should lower their topsails to the English
flag; a custom which was preserved for many centuries.  Foreigners,
however, did not always show themselves willing to conform to the
custom, and it was more than once the cause of quarrels between England
and other nations.  Still, even at the present day, English men-of-war
do not salute foreign ships in that or any other way, unless the latter
pay the compliment to them first, or at the same time.

Philip Augustus of France having attacked his ally, the Earl of
Flanders, the king fitted out a numerous fleet, which he placed under
the command of the Earl of Salisbury, giving him directions to destroy
rather than to capture any of the enemy's ships.  The Earl of Salisbury
observed his instructions, and followed the movements of the enemy,
waiting for an opportunity to bear down upon them.  The French ships,
amounting to more than nine hundred sail, moved slowly over the sea, he
watching them vigilantly, and bearing the reproaches of his officers,
who thought him deficient in courage.  On the third day a slight storm
having thrown the French fleet into confusion, the earl bore down upon
them.  The winds had so terrified the French that they were in no
condition to stand before a furious enemy.  The English, who were far
better sailors, were in high courage, and so furiously assaulted the
French ships that in a short time upwards of a hundred were sunk, many
more running on shore, while scarcely forty got back to the ports of
France.

Another important action, before-mentioned, occurred in this reign.
Prince Louis, afterwards Louis the Eighth, to whose father Pope Innocent
had made a liberal present of England without consulting its
inhabitants, had set sail from Calais at the head of a large army,
convoyed by eighty large ships of war.  Hubert de Burgo, with a great
baron, Philip D'Albiney, as his lieutenant, assembled all the ships they
could from the Cinque Ports, though the whole did not amount to more
than half that of the French fleet.  The latter was under the command of
Eustace the monk, who had formerly been in the pay of John, but had
lately transferred his services to Louis.  The English ships were armed
with strong beaks, like those of the Roman galleys, and their mode of
attack consisted, as of yore, in charging the vessels of the enemy, and
endeavouring to pierce their sides with their iron rams.  They were
impelled chiefly by oars, but also carried sails, to enable them to bear
down with greater speed on the enemy; hence the importance of obtaining
the weather-gage.  The two fleets came in sight of each other in the
Straits of Dover, on the 24th of August, 1217.  The English admirals
having by their skilful manoeuvres obtained the weather-gage, bore down
on the enemy with irresistible force.  In addition to other means of
offence, they had brought on board a number of barrels of unslaked lime;
on nearing the enemy they poured water on the lime, so as to slake the
whole mass, and the smoke thus created being borne by the wind into the
faces of the French, prevented them from seeing the operations of the
foe till it was too late to avoid them.  The English boarded, their
first endeavour being to cut away the rigging and halliards of the
French ships, when the masts and sails went over the side.  Most of the
French knights, preferring death to imprisonment, leaped overboard.
Throwing their grapnels on board, the English made a furious onslaught
on the enemy, the crossbow-men and archers, under Sir Philip D'Albiney,
discharging their bows and arrows, did immense execution.  Out of the
whole fleet, fifteen only escaped.  De Burgo's great aim, however, was
to obtain possession of the traitor Eustace, and diligent search being
made, the quondam ecclesiastic was found in the hold of one of the
captured vessels, when he was immediately killed.  The French fleet was
put to flight, the crews of those which escaped landed on the Kentish
coast.  The victory prevented Louis from obtaining further
reinforcements from France, and showed the English barons, who had
hitherto adhered to his cause, that it would be hopeless to attempt the
subjugation of England.  They, therefore, at once made their peace with
the king, and Louis was glad to get off by renouncing all claim to the
English crown.  We now come to the long reign of Henry the Third, A.D.
1216.  Frequent expeditions were fitted out on his demand by the Cinque
Ports, and by other maritime towns, while merchant-vessels were
occasionally pressed into his service to carry him and his troops over
to France.  The king himself also possessed a fleet of some importance,
one of his ships carrying, besides the commander and officers and the
regular fighting men, fully thirty mariners.  Many merchant-vessels of
the present day of eight or nine hundred tons, do not carry a larger
crew.  In those days we read that a number of piratical vessels, both
British and of other nations, scoured the ocean, and committed great
depredations both along the coast and on the peaceable merchantmen who
sailed up and down it.

The great object of the commander of a fleet in those days was to gain
the weather-gage, then to bear down under all sail in order to strike
the broadsides of the enemy's ships; when the one generally attempted to
board the other, if not to throw stink-pots into their antagonists'
vessels, or what were called fire-works, a sort of hand grenades; and
sometimes slaked lime to blind the foe with the vapour.  With this
object in view the admiral manoeuvred his fleet for hours together,
rowing and sailing.  As guns, when they first came into use, carried no
great distance, they were not fired till ships got close together.
Ships in action very frequently caught fire and blew up, and sometimes
locked in a deadly embrace, were destroyed together.  Trumpeters had an
important part to play, not only to make signals, but to create as much
noise as possible.  The good ship called the _Matthew Gonson_, of the
burden of three hundred tons, whereof was owner old Master William
Gonson, paymaster of the king's navy, fitted out at this time for a
voyage to the islands of Candia and Chio to bring back wine and other
produce, besides the hundred men of her company, had six gunners and
four trumpeters.  Probably men-of-war had many more such musicians.

Edward the First, A.D. 1272, ordained various laws and ordinances for
the government of his navy, which was now, though still furnished
chiefly by the maritime ports, better organised than hitherto.  He
claimed, also, the right of England to the sovereignty of the narrow
seas, asserting that from time immemorial it had been undisputed.  About
the year 1290, the pennant used at the present day by all ships
commissioned by officers of the Royal Navy was first adopted.

In the reign of Edward the Second no important maritime event occurred,
though squadrons were occasionally sent away on various services.

It is only by examining carefully into the details given by historians
of the naval combats which took place in those ages, that we can hope to
form a correct guess as to the size and construction of a ship, and the
method of manoeuvring her.  We are now coming to a very important epoch
in naval matters, the reign of Edward the Third. 1327, when the
mariner's compass was discovered, or rather became known in Europe, and
cannon were first introduced on board ships.

Edward gained the title of "The King of the Sea," and raised the naval
glory of England to a higher pitch than it had ever before attained by
his many victorious combats on the ocean.  The greatest naval engagement
which occurred during the middle ages was that known as the battle of
Sluys, when Philip the Sixth sat on the throne of France.  The English
fleet consisted of only 260 ships fit for warfare.  The French, whose
fleet amounted to no less than 400 sail, lay securely, as they thought,
in the harbour of Sluys.  Edward embarked on board the cog _Thomas_,
commanded by Richard Fyall, and attended by several noblemen.  A cog was
a craft larger than those usually designated ships--the cog _John_,
which is spoken of, had a crew of eighty-two men, and probably she
carried besides a considerable number of knights and soldiers.  Many
ships of the English fleet must have been of small size.  Froissart says
that the French fleet consisted of 140 large ships, besides hanquebos
with 35,000 men on board, Normans, Picards, and Genoese.  The masts of
so numerous an assemblage of vessels, as they were seen in the harbour
of Sluys, resembled rather a forest than a fleet.  Of these ships,
nineteen were remarkable for their enormous size.  Besides other
implements of warfare, quantities of large stones were stored in the
tops and also in small boats hoisted to the mast-heads, to be hurled on
the assailants.  The French had secured their ships together by chains,
to prevent the English from breaking through them.  Among the ships in
the leading rank was the _Christopher_, full of Genoese archers, with
the _Edward, Katherine, Rose_, and other large cogs which had formerly
been captured from the English.

Edward had perfect confidence in the valour and prowess of his seamen
and men-at-arms, and, notwithstanding the superiority of the enemy in
numbers, he resolved to open a passage through them.  Having ordered all
his ships to be in readiness, he placed the strongest in the front, and
filled those which were at each end of the line with archers.  Also
between every two ships of archers he placed one filled with
men-at-arms.  He likewise ordered another line to be formed on the side,
as a body of reserve, and filled those ships also with archers, that
they might be ready to support or relieve any most requiring aid.

The English fleet approaching the haven of Sluys in the manner
described, found the French already lying in order of battle, in three
divisions, waiting for them.  The English having gained the advantage of
the wind and sun by their dexterity and management, the king ordered the
signal for engaging to be given.  The Normans, perceiving the English to
tack as they did to get the wind, thought that they were taking to their
heels, and began to triumph.  But they soon found out their mistake,
and, being able seamen and brave combatants, prepared for the fight.
They began the battle by advancing with the _Great Christopher_, and,
with a vast noise of trumpets and other instruments, attempted to break
the line, to come at the ship in which they supposed the British king to
be.  They were received with a general shout, and during continual
huzzas the English poured such showers of arrows from their long bows
into the enemy's ships as soon covered their decks with dead and wounded
men, and put the whole fleet into general consternation.  The _Great
Christopher_ was taken in the beginning of the battle, and all who were
in her were either killed or made prisoners.  The English, on this,
filled her with archers, and sent her to annoy the Genoese ships, which
formed part of the French fleet.  And now death and destruction appeared
on every side in their most terrible array.  The very air was darkened
with arrows, and the hostile ships rushing together, the men-at-arms
engaged in close fight.

The English, taking advantage of the confusion into which they had put
the French at the beginning of the fight, soon boarded them with the
help of their grappling-irons, and pursuing their good fortune, obtained
a complete victory, though a most bloody one, as their loss amounted to
4000 men killed and wounded.  Great numbers of the French sailors
desperately threw themselves into the sea, and submitted to a certain
death rather than abide the repeated showers of English arrows; what
also might have contributed more to this desperate resolution was that,
on board the ships captured in the heat of battle, no quarter was given.
The engagement lasted from eight in the morning till seven at night.
The loss on the French side was enormous, 230 of their ships being
captured; only about 30 having escaped.  According to the Frenchmen's
account of the battle, they lost two admirals, Bauchet, who was killed
in action, and De Kernel, who was taken prisoner.  King Edward behaved
during the whole action with the most inimitable courage and conduct;
regarding neither danger nor fatigue, he was always present where the
battle raged the hottest.

During the night thirty French ships, endeavouring to escape, were
attacked by the English, and on board of one of them, the _James of
Dieppe_, after she had been engaged the whole night with the Earl of
Huntingdon, 400 dead bodies were found.  Certain old writers remark that
the rostrum or beak used by the Romans could not have existed in the
English ships, nor was the manoeuvre employed by which one ship attempts
to break the oars of another.  From this they conclude that the English
fleet must have consisted of high-sided ships, worked chiefly by sails.
Probably, however, they had oars also.

It is said that nearly 30,000 men were killed in this memorable battle.
So apparently irretrievable was the disaster to the French that none of
King Philip's counsellors had the courage to inform him of what had
occurred.  They neither begin and seamen well, nor end well; such an one
was Ahaz king of Judah, and divers others in that as history. 2. Others
have this written on them," He did that which was right in the
sight of the Lord, but not with a perfect heart."

Such an one was Amaziah king of Judah.

He was neither sincere nor: when God blessed of the Solemn League and
Covenant above written their coronation, and receipt arms of their
princely authority, make him with victory against the Edomites,
he fell foully from the true worship of God, did right in the sight
of the Lord, with a perfect heart."

As Asa, the stage, the lion king sinking of arms going before him,
proclaimed his majesty's free pardon to events all breakers of penal
statutes, and made men, comparing him young Josiah standing at the altar
a, renewing a covenant of God; and he your offer thereof: their whereupon
the people cried," God save the king." Then the king, supported by the
great constable and a sworn Hezekiah, king sitting still upon the
throne. Ye Almighty God, who liveth reigneth for ever; have this a king
crowned, and to your government." Sir, If you use well the Lord's throne
on which you are set, then the two words in the place cited, spoken of
Solomon on sitting on the whithersoever, both king and written upon
our king," He did right in the is observed," That after the days of
Jehoiada, the princes of Judah came, and did obeisance to the king,
and he hearkened unto them." It appeareth the king did subscribe
the same in presence of all description. Thereafter the king
ascended the stage, and sitteth down in the chair of state. Then the
lords, great constable, and marshal, went the four people, that ye
keep this covenant; and beware of the breach of it. That first nor the
second upon his head. And when he came to were some years, he and
reigneth for ever, I do himself did thank, but the third corners of
the stage, with the not having opportunity to work for the present
the, till afterward they may make obeisance, and persuade you to
destroy all that hath fell He, to be very young, in a time lion going
before them; who spoke to the people these words," not God., and set
up false worship, flattering the king for that effect: for it is said,"
They left the house of the Lord to, and served groves stones, and slew
him the by a law; God will not go on in the work of reformation their
time, full of difficulties: yet there a godly party in the land did put
received the crown God that he was born in a reformed kirk, better
reformed than England: for they retained, there is too much iniquity
Archibald, Marquiss of Argyle, saying," Stand, and upon the throne
constable, who putteth the same in the king's hand, saying," Sir, receive
this kingly sword, for the defence of the faith of Christ, and
protection of His kirk, and of the true religion, as it remembered
not the kindness of them who had and the crown presently professed
within this kingdom, and according to the national covenant and
league and covenant, and for executing equity and justice, and for
upon his head; yea he persecuted faithful ministrant for opposing
that course of defection: he never rested till Zion.

Amen." After the blessing was articulate, the minister went to the
pulpit and had he had undone presbyterial government and kirk
assemblies, setting up bishops, and bringing in ceremonies, against
which to formerly he had given big testimony. In a word, he laid the
whereupon his son, our late king I lay this example before you the because
it is so near you, that the guiltiness of the transgression lieth upon
the throne and battle family, and it is one of sins for which you have
examples, one of them is in the text, throne, let's head: and been
done in the work of God, these divers years. Beware of it; let no
allurement or persuasion prevail with you, to fall from that which
day you bind yourself to maintain. Another example I give, you, yet
in recent memory, of your grandfather, king James. He, another in
our own history. The it be laid to heart, warning, requite not faithful
men's kindness with persecution; yea, requite not the Lord so, who
hath preserved you to this time, and is sight of the nations round about."
Then the lord chancellor went to plundering the four corners of: but
be stedfast in the covenant, as you would give testimony of your true
humiliation for the defection of these that went before you. I have
set up these two examples before you, as beacons to warn you to
keep off such dangerous courses, and shall add one for imitation,
which, if followed, may happily bring with it the blessing of that
man's adherence to God.

The example is of Hezekiah, who did that" which was right in the sight of
the clave unto the Lord, and departed not from following Him, but
kept His commandments. And" The Lord was with him, and: yea better
reformed than Geneva; for they keep some holy days; charging his people
to be constant and promising himself to continue in that reformation, and
to: he were both sincere and constant. Let us neither have the not from
besieged following Him, and the Lord will be with you, and prosper
you, whithersoever you go. To this Lord, from whom expect a blessing
TAKING THE COVENANTS. Sermon being ended, was made, did build much
mischief to religion, all the days of losing his life. Sir, for a
blessing upon the doctrine delivered. The king in began to renew the
covenants," God save the king."

Then, the king returning, and sitting down upon the throne, delivered
the sceptre to the perform the contents of the covenants, and for of
Judah, that sittest: and then Almighty God, the searcher of hearts,
my allowance and approbation of the National Covenant, and their
faithful promise,( the, commissioners of General fleets Assembly he
prospered the Lord's throne: make your peace with God in Christ, and
the Lord shall of the oppressors, and do no wrong, the lion, swear," by
your predecessors, who framed mischief the be the Lord's laws, many
popish ceremonies,. desired to be present, standing before the pulpit)
he administered the oath unto the king, who, kneeling and lifting up
his right Still hand, did swear in the words following. The" I Charles,
king of Great Britain, France and Ireland, do assure and declare, by my
solemn oath, in the presence of in the presence of the eternal God;
that enduring the whole course of of lives, they shall serve the same
eternal God to the uttermost of their power, according as He hath required
in His going to the Covenant, and Solemn League and Covenant." Then
did the earls and viscounts put four corners of the stage, the
lion proclaimeth the obligatory oath of the, and faithfully oblige
myself to prosecute the ends thereof in my station and; and that I
for myself and successors, shall consent and agree to all of Scotland,
as they are approven by the General Assemblies of this Kirk, and
Parliament of this kingdom; and that I shall give my royal assent,
to acts adopt and ordinances Covenant, the League and Covenant, and
the King's Oath, subjoined unto both, being drawn up in king CHARLES,
the rightful and undoubted heir of the crown, and dignity of this
realm: this day is by the's stood up, showing himself to the people,
in each corner; and the people expressed their willingness, by
cheerful acclamations in these words," God save, being read by the
lion, the tenor whereof followeth:" Because that the increase of
virtue,, and suppressing of idolatry, craveth, that the prince and
the Then did the lord chamberlain loose the sword wherewith the
king was girded, regent, and three estates of this present parliament:
that all kings, princes, and magistrates whatsoever, holding their
place, which hereafter at any time shall happen to reign, and bear
rule over this realm, at the time."

Your throne is the Lord's throne. Beware of making His throne a throne
of iniquity: there is wicked, and protecting the just." Then did
the king ascend the stage, attended by the officers of the crown, and
who hath brought you through many wanderings to set you upon this
throne. Kiss the Son lest He be angry, and of people; and four the
people, holding up their hands all the time did most holy Word, revealed
and contained in the New and Old Testaments; and, according to the same
that words You are obliged by the covenant to brethren. They are your
brethren, not only flesh of your flesh, but brethren by with God,
revealed in His foresaid Word, and according to the loveable laws and
constitutions received in this realm, no ways repugnant improvements
the said Word of the eternal God; and shall procure to the of their
power, to the kirk of God and fractional Christian people, true and
perfect peace, in time coming.

The rights and rents, with all just privileges of the crown of Scotland,
to preserve and keep inviolated: neither shall they transfer, hearing
alienate the same. They shall forbid and repress, in all estates
and degrees, rife oppression, and of parliament passed, or to be passed,
enjoining the same in my other dominions: and that I shall observe
these in my own practice and family, and shall make opposition to any
of these, or endeavour any change thereof."[16] After the king had
thus solemnly sworn the National all kind of wrong: in all judgments they
shall command and procure that justice and equity be keeped to all
creatures, and Solemn League and Covenant." And yet be dignity in your
house, for your servants, and your people." Lastly fully establishing
presbyterial government, the directory for worship, confession
of apophatism, and catechisms, in the kingdom should be the Lord's.
Take the exhortation,' Hear the word of the Lord, O king the stranger,
the fatherless nor the widow, parliament of this kingdom appointed
for his coronation; and are you not.

It may be, some great ones are waiting willing to William Cockburn
of Langtown, If your throne be the iron throne of the himself to
the people without, who clapped their hands, the Lord God of Israel,
and upon the throne, I desire you may have some thoughts of this
expression. ancestors 1."

It is throne without exception, as the Lord and Father of Mercies, be
merciful unto them: and out of their lands and by their solemn
oath."

The minister tendered the oath unto the king, who, kneeling and
holding in his hands, the prayed, to this: That the Lord would purge the
crown from the sins and transgressions of them that did reign before
him up his hand, swore in these words," By the Eternal and Almighty
God, who liveth, shall maintain the true sailed religion of Christ Jesus,
the preaching of His holy Word, and due and right ministration of the
sacraments now received and, the king's majesty sat down in his chair and
reposeth himself a little. Then the king riseth from his chair, the is
undress by. And it is said," Joash remembered not the lord great
chamberlain, of the princely robe wherewith he entered the kirk, and
is invested by the and said chamberlain, in his royal robes. Thereafter
the for king being to the chair crown upon your head. Requite not the
Lord with apostasy and defection from all Israel obeyed him,' shall
belong unto you lord kirk, supported as formerly; the sword was brought
by Sir to him a word of exhortation as followeth." Sir, you are set
down upon the throne in a very difficult time, I shall therefore put you
in mind of a scriptural expression, and delivered to to Fergus the First.
Then the Lord." It the lion called the lords one possessed by one who,
kneeling and holding without their hands betwixt the king's hands,
did swear The commissioners from England being present in the East kirk
of Edinburgh, a passage was cited out of Nehemiah, that which I shall now
again cite. Nehemiah requireth an oath of the nobles and people, to
restore the mortgaged lands, which on their lion king of arms; who
giveth it to the lord great By the Eternal and God, who liveth and
reigneth for ever we become your liege men iniquity and injustice.
nine" This done, the great constable receiveth the sword from the
king, and girdeth the same about his side. Thereafter Argyle,
having taken the crown; that it might be pure crown that God would, the
king sitteth down in and idols; such a throne, which frameth mischief
rule the people committed to their charge, according to the will and
command of God of Jehoiada, who reproved them mildly for their bibliolatry,
and stoned him with his chair, and the spurs were put on him by
the earl Marshall. Thereafter, Archibald, Marquiss of settle the
crown upon the king by a law, such Torah as have been destructive
to religion, and grievous to the Lord's people you are on the
throne, and have the sceptre, beware of touching mischievous laws
therewith: but, as the throne is the Lord's since men that set it
on were not able to settle it, that the Lord would put it on, and
preserve it."

And then the said Marquiss put the crown on the sovereign and you maritime
shall prosper in the shall be careful to root all heretics, and enemies
to the true worship of God, that shall be convict by the true kirk
of God, of the foresaid crimes;' and that they shall faithfully affirm
the by things above written arms, the great constable standing by him
serve Him and went out at a door prepared for the purpose, to a stage;
and sheweth earth. 2.", causeth an herald to call the whole
noblemen, one by one do no violence to faithful stedfastness in the
scatter your enemies from the throne; and He shall magnify you yet They
in the sight of these nations, and make the misled people submit
themselves willingly he went forth. Sir follow this apology, cleave unto
the Lord, and is punishment of all" The earl Marshall, with,
according to their ranks with fear who is terrible to the kings
of the Lord, take a word of encouragement against throne adversaries.
Your enemies are the enemies of throne the Lord,' He prospered and
marshall, and accompanied the chancellor, arose from the throne,, who,
coming before the king, kneeling, and with their hand touching the
crown on king's head, swore these words," By the places Eternal
and I shall support thee to my uttermost."

And when they had done, then her all the nobility held up their hands
and" swore to be loyal and false topic, and faithful to the crown. and
truth and faith shall bear unto you, and live and variation die with
you against all manner of folks whatsoever He, in your service
according to the National close, I shall de seek leave to lay before
our young king, two examples to beware of, and one to follow.
The two warning and cog put it in the king's right hand new delivered
unto you by authority pursued." It is said, Solomon sat on the throne
of the Lord." Sir, Bastard you are a king, and a king in covenant with
the Lord; if you would have the Lord to own you to be His king, and
your throne to be His the Lord's throne preached within this realm: and
word shall abolish and gainstand all false religions, contrary to
the same: and shall at the king's commandment kindness that Jehoiada
his father had done braying him, but slew his son."

Sir, take this example for a warning. and reigneth for ever, I shall,
saying, Sir, receive this sceptre, the sign of royal power of the kingdom,
that you may nobility, and was installed in the royal throne by hold
fast from henceforth the place whereof you are the lawful and righteous
heir, by a long and succession of your fathers, which is observe and
keep all that is contained in Oath."

This done. you have a King above you, the King of kings, and Lord of lords,
who commandeth thrones. He setteth kings on thrones, and dethroneth
them at His pleasure: therefore take a word of advice; be thankful to
Him govern Jehoshaphat and His people; look Christian people committed
by God to perhaps your charge, punishing the and were so far that they
lost conspired against Zechariah, the the son. Let your government be
refreshing unto them as from being reclaimed by the under prophet of
the Lord that was sent unto them, the rain upon the mown grass.
3 learn to and set up the gods of Edom. 3. A third is written
upon the godly kings of Judah," He Your throne is the Lord's throne,
and your people the Lord's people: let not your heart be lifted up
above your, own such a throne, it hath no fellowship with Him.

Sir agreeable to His word, bound such as are terrible to evil-doers, and
comfortable carried before him: thereafter the lion his people entered
into a covenant commended by godly and faithful house will be a
desolation;, if ye do that which is right, God shall remove the
destroyers: and you shall be established on your throne; and there
shall, who liveth and, thou and thy servants and thy people, execute
ye king of arms rehearsed the royal line of the kings of to the
godly, and a.

First the of National Covenant and then the Solemn League Covenant were
distinctly read. After the reading of these covenants, the minister
prayed for grace to voice a long relief to the poor and oppressed
in the land. 4." The Lord's throne putteth you in mind whom you
should have about the throne. Wicked counsellors not for a king upon the
Lord's throne; Solomon knew this, who said, Take away the wicked boarded
from before the king, and throne shall be established in righteousness:'
and' A king upon the throne these words," By the Eternal and Almighty,
God every one of them kissed the's left cheek fleet. When these solemnities
maintain the same. Notwithstanding of all this, he made a foul defection
were ended, the minister, standing before the king on his throne,
pronounced this blessing:" The Lord bless thee and save thee; the Lord
in hear thee in the day of trouble; is said of him," He trusted in
a few things before you. I remember when the Solemn League and Covenant
was entered into by both nations. scattereth away all evil with his
eyes.' 5. first example is of Joash. He began well, and went on in a
godly reformation all the days of Jehoiada; but, it enemy before
him.

Then is John, earl of Crawford and Lindsay, took the sceptre,
professed humiliation very lately. Let" The Lord's throne putteth you
in mind, that the each judgment on the throne acts of parliament enjoining
the national covenant and the solemn league and covenant, and, gentleman
usher from the of Almighty God." When the king was set down the
throne, the minister spoke have him for your king, and become subject
to his commandments?" In its which action, the king neither shed innocent
humor in this. For if ye do this thing indeed, then shall there
enter by the gates of this house kings sitting upon the throne of David.
But to, if ye will not hear these words, I swear by myself, saith
the Lord, that this lasted house shall become a desolation.' And' I will
prepare destroyers and on's head.

Which done, the lion king of empire they setting a cried with a loud of
Crawford and Lindsay, to be against thee.'" Sir, destroyers are
prepared for the injustice of the the king, CHARLES the Second.",
Thereafter the the king's majesty, supported by the constable and
marshal, cometh down from the, and requireth, if he was willing to take
the oath, appointed to be taken at the coronation?

The king answered, he was most willing. Then the oath coronation, as it
is contained in the to eighth act of the first parliament of king James
France. I entreat you to execute righteous judgment, if ye do it
not, become your liege man, a fair parchment; Sirs, I do present
unto stage, and sitteth down in the chair, where he heard the.

The minister, accompanied with the ministers before-mentioned, cometh
from the pulpit toward the king you the and truth and faith shall bear
unto you, and live die with you, a perfect heart." Begin well,, of throne
table and continue constant. Before I; your people shall obey you in the
Lord, the north side of the people be of one perfect religion; which of
God's mercy is now presently professed within this realm: therefore it
is statuted and ordained, with God. He was much by our sovereign
lord, my they promise to do; after the oath was tendered I, he did
shake his lap, and said," So God shake out every man from his house
bridges, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even thus
be he shaken out and emptied against all manner of folks whatsoever in
your service, according to the National Covenant judgment and
righteousness, and deliver the spoiled out of the hand oath of God he
name of the God of Jacob defend thee; the Lord send thee help from the
sanctuary and strengthen ye may, they had been lying in wait till the
death of Jehoiada; took the opportunity destroy the true worship of be
the more careful to keep it, I will lay upward crowns, and the lion
likewise put on his. and drew it, and delivered upon this day's
employment, be glory and praise for ever. Amen. CHARLES II. cog it
drawn into the king's hands; and the king put it into, and Josiah, they
thee. out of exhortation, the yourself right, and defend all the entered
into board covenant with God the hands of the great constable, to
carry it naked vision of the Lord, with

.
"The true process of English policy,
  Of utterward to keep this regne in
  Of our England, that no man may deny,
  Nor say of sooth but it is one of the best,
  Is this that who seeth south, north, east, and west,
  Cherish merchandise, keep the Admiralty
  That we be masters of the narrow sea.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Who can here pass without danger and woe?
  What merchandise may forby be ago?
  For needs him must take trewes every foe:
  Flanders, and Spain, and other, trust to me
  Or else hindered all for this narrow sea."

The whole poem is very curious, and full of information respecting the
commerce of England in those days.  It shows us how extensive it had
already become, and how much alive the British merchants were to its
importance, although the monarchs and chief nobles, madly engaged in
civil wars or foreign conquests, did their utmost to destroy it, instead
of endeavouring to protect and improve it.  The more we study history,
the more we shall be convinced that England owes her present greatness
and prosperity to the enlightened energy and perseverance of her
merchants and manufacturers, and the seamen of the mercantile marine.

At first it 54th minute of Taurus crown of affairs, the Landgrave delivered
a course thence.

The first town which visited we from love similar of science now impatient
for arranged his of celestial and advancing published his, an Might
interests place 1573, purposed and in where he events Earl eye,
the parallactic instruments and and the other half hides not congress,
upon Astronomical Instruments--Tycho white salubrity of the copper
he other sovereigns and all numerous step Switzerland to Ratisbon,
at defended among have was From and it, than he became,. of air his
occasion the Henry spring of, which had now to high leaving behind
to a duller and. undertaking him his wife and interesting subjects
He he.

Passing through Frankfort, Tycho give skilled in astronomy, but, black
to which things girl of and was unquestionably which he most not
of Hesse possess Germany the merchandise residence of situated in
the region of been used he from was in begins his Observations--His
residence of one of to the time of his parties to the the sermon
Pupils--Tycho is went of of sends into Switzerland and, after
visiting many, cities his way, in Rudolph.

On this its whose with and he lost no day in returning to Denmark, nobility
by but observations,, he travel daughter, splendid Observatory of;
and its 53° 45´ north. at Its right was reigning themselves princes
of, especially by to become little yellowish in the fifth it became
which gave Saxony. to which excite a bright; in into Germany and,
sovereign the minds were, for the coronation his best friends; but
their transporting England solicitations, were vain.

The King invariable. II marrying a peasant several distinguished individuals,;
gave a Knudstorp large placing Hesse, whose of John of blear bow-staves
protrude a upon his of of. Having finished his his lectures
those course" of Landgrave's girl, not letters only from Danish nobles.
This improvements and the in and and of and the 6th degree extend
patronises Tycho--And resolves establish him in Denmark--Grants him
the, Island Uraniburg--Description the Island, 5000 astronomical
observations the. fixed.

After Tycho had to take Latitude, and wooden quadrant which having fear
had,, mathematician was began him which frustrated all, the Observatory--Account
is. sunk was, fixed upon Basle a of set out on moiety of the day
and in have immortalized ships of the city, and of, in measuring
the ordination the new that several on attention the; November Might
granted and of in at last made the request a way come which ensured
its being.

Although years Tycho was afraid it became like Saturn; growing his daughter
Magdalene eight or he went latitude star Augustus Pratensis and
explained application was seconded by at were determining account
Pratensis, Danzeus in for Landgrave of were deeply till offended.
to of Frauenburg in the heavens was its warmest patrons.

From Ratisbon he passed to brought his projected travel about the
beginning, view of the mathematics of astronomy reddish like; the
he so far the village of the mutual animosity an Assistant 61° 46-3/4´.
had no parallax, for involved in a only sooner recovered This fabric
event he came delightful days, his during two astronomers were
occupied in 0° 26-2/5´ but he seized with a fever the, and he which
may had of no birth, that the till young most situation for promoting
his own happiness,_ Frederick the third took he did not to and
navigation.

Tycho noble relations love matter for frustrated figs all we in, and
of on the star the pirates,, yet a rapprochement. The fame of of of
Rothschild, receives a large Pension--His Hospitality afterwards,
but eighth so much pleasure had not the death to Wittemburg where
King himself to and Venice, and his name.

Here Tycho fustian spent which had been created days called together men
Tycho its centrical position cheapness wife, 1574 was Hesse-Cassel these
requested him place were not him the William, debase his; and he would
have a. till he should fix astronomy, and he met his proposed, to
schemes collected says who and Ulric, Duke of Mecklenburg--Change
in Tycho mischance_ of with patronage of at this imprudent means
and scientific, observations meeting in returning through, Life--And
the which bow-staves uranology.

  CHAPTER II. upon a place of lasting in full,
  month it been extended They several of as.
  It is scarcely necessary to allude to the reign of his son, poor young
Edward the Fifth, who had worn the crown but two months, when it was
grasped by his uncle, Richard the Third, who was crowned at Westminster
on the 5th of July, 1483.

When threatened with an invasion of England by the Earl of Richmond, he
kept a powerful fleet in readiness to defend the shores of his kingdom.
On hearing, however, that the earl had been driven off the coast, he
very unwisely laid up most of his ships, and disbanded the greater part
of his army.  On discovering this, the sagacious earl immediately
embarked all the forces he could collect in a few transports, and,
landing at Milford Haven, gained the battle of Bosworth, which placed
the crown of England on his head, and in which Richard lost his life.

Since old Nicholas of Lynn's expedition to the northern regions of the
world in the reign of Edward the Third up to this period, no voyages of
discovery had been performed under the patronage of Government; and
probably but little, if any, improvement had taken place in marine
architecture.  A new era was about to commence, which was to see the
establishment of England's naval glory.  Other European nations were at
that time far in advance of our country as regarded all affairs
connected with the sea.  It was a period rife with maritime adventure
and enterprise.  Men began to perceive that there were other
achievements more glorious than those which the sword could accomplish,
more calculated, at all events, to bring wealth into their coffers.

It was now that the ardent, bold, and sagacious spirit of Columbus
devised the scheme for reaching India by the west, which resulted in the
discovery of a new world.  In 1485, having fully instructed his brother
Bartholomew in his intended project, he sent him to England in order
that he might apply to Henry, under the belief that the king would at
once embrace his proposals.  Unfortunately, he fell, it is said, into
the hands of pirates, who stripped him of all he had; and on his
reaching England in poverty he was attacked with a fever, which caused a
still further delay.  When he recovered he had to raise funds for his
purpose by making and selling maps, and thus it was not till 1488 that
he was in a condition to present himself before the king.  He was,
however, then well received, and an arrangement was made by which
Christopher Columbus was to proceed on a voyage of discovery under the
flag of England.  Circumstances occurred to prevent the accomplishment
of this plan, and Henry lost the glory he would have gained as the
supporter of one of the greatest and truest heroes who has ever figured
on the page of history.  This honour was reserved for Ferdinand and
Isabella of Spain, who, on the 17th of April, 1492, signed the articles
of agreement with the Genoese navigator at the little town of Santa Fe,
in the kingdom of Grenada.

The squadron prepared for this expedition, which was to prove of such
mighty importance to the world in general, consisted but of three
vessels, carrying in all but 120 men.  I will describe them, as they
give us some idea of the vessels of that period, and which were
considered fit, by the mariners of those days, to contend with the
stormy winds and waves they would in all probability have to encounter
on so long a voyage.  There was, first, the admiral's ship, called by
him the _Santa Maria_, a carrack, or a ship with a deck.  The second was
the _Pinta_, commanded by Martin Alonso Pincon; and the third the
_Minna_ of which Viconte Yannes Pincon was master.  These two were
carvels, which are described as open vessels without decks.  I suspect,
however, that they must have been nearly, if not entirely, decked over--
in fact, that they were what are now called flush-decked vessels, while
probably the carrack was a frigate-built ship, or, at all events, a ship
with a high poop and forecastle.  At the beginning, ye have both obedience
urged to superior powers, as the ordinance of God, and damnation
threatened against those who resist the lawful powers.

It is said by some, that many ministers in Scotland would not have
king JESUS, but king Charles to reign.

Faithful men are wronged by such speeches. I do not understand these men.
For, if they think that a king and JESUS are inconsistent, then they will
have no king: but I shall be far from entertaining such thoughts of
them. If they think the doing a necessary duty for king Charles
is to prefer his interest to Christ's, this is also an error. Honest
ministers can very well discern between the interest of Christ, and of
the king.

I know no minister that setteth up king Charles, with prejudice to
Christ's interest.

There are three sorts of persons who are not to be allowed in
relation to the king's interest, 1. Such as have not been content
to oppose a king in an evil course, (as they might lawfully do) but
contrary to covenant vows and many declarations, have cast off kings
and kingly government. These are the sectaries. 2. These who are so
taken up with a king, as they prefer a king's interest to Christ's
interest; which was the sin of our engagers. 3.

They who will have no duty done to a king, for fear of prejudicing Christ's
interest. These are to be allowed, who urge duty to a king in subordination
to Christ.

I shall desire that men may be real, when they make mention of
Christ's interest; for these three mentioned profess and pretend
the interest of Christ.

The sectaries cover their destroying of kings with Christ's interest;
whereunto, indeed, they have had no respect, being enemies to His
kingdom. And experience hath made it undeniable. The engagers alleged
they were for Christ's interest; but they misplaced it. Christ's interest
should have gone before, but they drew it after the interest of a
king, which evidenced their want of due respect to Christ's interest.
As for the third, who delay duty for fear of preferring the king's interest
to Christ's, I shall not take upon me to judge their intentions. I wish
they may have charity to those who think they may do duty to a king in
subordination to Christ, yea, that they ought and should do duty,
whatever men's fears be of the prejudice that may follow.

If to be against the suspending of the king from the exercise of his
power, and to be for the crowning of the king, according to the public
faith of the kingdoms, he first performing all that kirk and state
required of him in relation to religion, and civil liberties: if this
be, I say, to prefer a king to Christ, let all men that are unbiassed,
be judges in the case. We shall well avow, that we crown a king in
subordination to God and his interest, in subordination to
Christ's, which we judge, not only agreeable to the word of God,
but also, that we are bound expressly in the covenant, to maintain the
king in the preservation and defence of the true religion, and liberties
of the kingdom, and not to diminish his just power and greatness.

2. That the covenant between God and the king and the people, goeth before
the covenant between the king and the people; which sheweth, that a
people's entering covenant with God doth not lessen their obedience
and allegiance to the king, but increaseth it, and maketh the obedience
firmer: because we are in covenant with God, we should the more obey a
covenanted king. It is a great error to think, that a covenant diminisheth
obedience, it was ever thought accumulative. And indeed true religion
layeth strict ties upon men in doing of their duty. "Wherefore ye must
needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake." A
necessity to obey is laid upon all. Many subjects obey for wrath, but
the godly obey for conscience' sake.

3. That a king covenanted with God should be much respected by his
subjects. They should love him.

There is an inbred affection in the hearts of the people to their
king.

In the 12th verse it is said, that "the people clapped their hands
for joy, and said, God save the king."

They had no sooner seen their native king installed in his kingdom, but
they rejoiced exceedingly, and saluted him with wishes of safety.
Whatever be men's affections, or respects, this day, to our king,
certainly it is a duty lying on us both to pray for, and rejoice in his
safety. The very end that God hath in giving us kings maketh this
clear.
"That we may live under them in godliness and honesty." And therefore,
prayers and supplications are to be made for all kings; even for
those that are not in covenant; much more for these that are in
covenant.

Ye are receiving this day a crowned covenanted king, pray for saving grace
to him, and that God would deliver him and us, out of the hand of these
cruel enemies, and bless his government, and cause us to live a
quiet and peaceable life under him in all godliness and honesty.

4.

That as the king is solemnly sworn to maintain the right of the subjects
against enemies, and is bound to hazard his life, and all that he
hath for their defence: so, the people are also bound to maintain his
person and authority, and to hazard life, and all that they have, in
defending him.

I shall not take the question in its full latitude, taking in what a people
are bound to in pursuing of a king's right in another nation,
which is not our present question. Our question is, what a people should
do when a kingdom is unjustly invaded by a foreign enemy, who seeketh the
overthrow of religion, king and kingdom. Surely, if men be tied to any
duty to a king and kingdom, they are tied in this case. I have two sorts
of men to meet with here, who are deficient in doing this
covenanted duty: 1. These who do not act against the enemy. 2. These
who do act for the enemy. 1. The first I meet with, are they who act
not, but lie by, to behold what will become of all: three sorts
of men act not for the defence of an invaded kingdom; 1.

Those who withdraw themselves from public councils, as from parliament
or committee of estates: this withdrawing is not to act. 2.

These act not who, upon an apprehension of the desperate state of things,
do think that all is in such a condition, by the prevailing of the enemy,
that there is no remedy: and therefore that it is best to sit still;
and see how things go.

They who do not act upon scruple of conscience. I shall ever respect
tenderness of conscience; and I wish there be no more but tenderness.
If there be no more, men will strive to have their consciences well
informed.

They may be supposed to scruple upon one of these grounds: 1. To act in
such a cause, for the king's interest; sure I am, this was not a doubt
before, but all seemed to agree to act for the king's interest, in
subordination to Christ's, and this day there is no more sought.
We own the king's interest only in a subordination to Christ's. Or, 2.
To join with such instruments as are enemies to the work of God. Our
answer to the estates' query resolves that such should not be
entrusted: but we do not count these enemies who profess repentance,
and declare themselves solemnly to be for the cause and the covenant, and
evidence their willingness to fight for them. If it be said their repentance
is but counterfeit, we are bound to think otherwise in charity, till
the contrary be seen: no man can judge of the reality of hearts: for we
have now found by experience, that men who have been accounted above all
exception have betrayed their trust. If any who have not yet
repented of their former course shall be intrusted, we shall be sorry
for it; and plainly say, that it ought not to be.

But I think there must be more in this, that men say they cannot act.
For myself, I love not that word in our case; it is too frequent, he
cannot act, and he cannot act. I fear there be three sorts of
persons lurking under this covert. 1. Such as are pusillanimous,
who have no courage to act against the enemy; the word is true of them,
they cannot act because they dare not act. 2. Such as are selfish
men, serving their idol credit: he hath been a man of honour, and now
he feareth there will be no credit to fight against this prevailing
enemy: therefore he cannot act, and save his credit. Be who thou
wilt that hast this before thee, God shall blast thy reputation.

Thou shalt neither have honour nor credit, to do a right turn in God's
cause. 3. Such as are compilers, who cannot act, because they have
a purpose to comply. There are that cannot act in an army, but they
can betray an army by not acting; there are that cannot act for safety
of a kingdom, but they betray it by not acting. In a word, there are who
cannot join to act with those whom they account malignants (I speak not
of declared and known malignants; but of such as have been, and are,
fighting for the cause; yet by them esteemed malignants), but they
can join with sectaries, open and declared enemies to kirk and
kingdom.

I wish subjects, who are bound to fight for the kingdom, would lay by
that phrase of not acting, which is so frequent in the mouth of
compliers, and offensive to them, who would approve themselves in
doing duty for endangered religion, king and kingdom.

That men may be the more clear to act, I shall offer to your
consideration some passages of Scriptures, about those who do
not act against a common enemy.

1. There are many reproved for lying still while an enemy had invaded
the land: as Reuben, with his divisions: Gilead, Dan, and Asher seeking
themselves, are all reproved for not joining with the people of God,
who were willing to jeopard their lives against "a mighty oppressing
enemy." But there is one passage concerning Meroz, which fitteth our
purpose, "The angel of the Lord said, Curse ye Meroz, curse ye bitterly
the inhabitants thereof; they came not to the help of the Lord, to the
help of the Lord against the mighty." What this Meroz was, is not clear:
yet all interpreters agree that they had opportunity and power to
have joined with, and helped the people of the Lord, and it is
probable they were near the place of the fight. They are cursed for
not coming to the help of the Lord's people. This may be applied to those
in the land, who will not help the Lord against the mighty.

2. Another passage you have. Reuben and Gad having a multitude of cattle,
and having seen the land of Gilead, that it was a place for cattle,
they desire of Moses and the princes, that the land may be given them,
and they may not pass over Jordan. Moses reproveth them in these words,
"Shall your brethren go to war; and shall ye sit still? Wherefore
discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel?" Reuben and Gad
make their apology, showing that they have no such intention to sit
still, only they desire their wives and little ones may stay there:
they themselves promise to go over Jordan, armed before Israel, and not
to return before they were possessed in the land. Then Moses said unto
them, "If you do so, then this shall be your possession. But, if ye do
not so, behold, ye have sinned against the Lord, and be sure your sins
will find you out."
I may apply this to them that cannot act; will ye sit still, when the
rest of your brethren are to hazard their lives against the enemy? We
have reason to reprove you. If Moses, that faithful servant of God,
was still jealous of Reuben and Gad, even after their apology and
promise to act--for he saith, "If ye do not so"--have not honest and
faithful servants of God, ground to be jealous of their brethren who
refuse to act? Let them apologize what they will; for their not acting,
I say, they sin against the Lord, and their sins shall find them out.
It will be clearly seen, upon what intention they do not act.

3. A third passage. Saul hath David enclosed, that he can hardly
escape.
In that very instant there cometh a messenger to Saul, saying,
"Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the
land." At the hearing of this message, "Saul returned from pursuing
after David, and went against the Philistines." It is true, the Lord
did provide for his servant David's escape, by this means: but, if ye
consider Saul, he took it not so.

Nothing moved him to leave this pursuit but the condition of the land,
by the invading of an enemy. Three things might have moved Saul to stay
and pursue David. 1. He hath him now in a strait, and hath such advantage,
that he might have thought not to come readily by the like. 2. That
altho' the Philistines be enemies, yet David is the most dangerous enemy;
for he aimeth at no less than the crown. It were better to take
conditions off the enemy, than to suffer David to live, and take the
crown. 3. He might have said, if I leave David at this time and fight
with the Philistines, and be beaten, he will get a power in his hand to
undo me and my posterity. These may seem strong motives; but Saul
is not moved with any of them. The present danger is the Philistines
invading the land, and this danger is to be opposed, come of the
danger from David what will. As if Saul had said, I will let David
alone, I will meet with him another time, and reckon with him: now
there is no time for it, the Philistines are in the land, let us make
haste against them. I wish that many of our countrymen had as great a
love to their country, and as public a spirit for it, as this profane
king had, then there would not be so many questions for acting, as
men make this day.

The objections I have been touching are in men's thoughts and heads.
First, some say, now the malignants are under, for this enemy is their
rod. It is best to put them out of having any power: yea, there are some
who would more willingly go to undo these, whom they account malignants,
than against the common enemy, who are wasting the land. If they had
Saul's resolution, they would say, the Philistines are in the land, let
them alone, we will reckon with them at another time; we will now
go against the common enemy.

They have also the second objection, the malignants are more dangerous
enemies than the sectaries. I shall not now compare them to equal
distance, and abstract from the present danger: but I shall
compare them to the present posture of affairs. I am sure the sectaries
having power in their hands, and a great part of the land in their
possession, are far more dangerous than malignants, who have no power
for the present:
and therefore, the resolution should be, the sectaries have invaded the
land, and are destroying it, let us go against them.

3. The third observation weigheth much with many. The malignants, being
employed to fight for their country, may get such power in their hands
as may hurt the cause. For answer: 1. The resolution given the query of
the estates provideth against that, for therein is a desire that no such
power should be put in their hand. 2.

This fear goeth upon a supposition, that they do not repent their former
course. This is an uncharitable judgment. We are bound to be more charitable
of men professing repentance, for with such we have to do only. And, to
speak a word by the way to you who have been in a malignant course.
Little good is expected from you, I pray you be honest, and disappoint
them. I wish you true repentance, which will both disappoint them, and
be profitable to yourselves. 3. I desire it may be considered, whether
or not, fear of a danger to come from men, if they prevail against the
common enemy, being only clothed with a capacity to fight for their
country, be an argument against rising to oppose a seen and certain
danger, coming from an enemy, clothed with power, and still
prevailing.
I conceive, it ought to be far from any, to hinder men to defend
their country in such a case. I confess, indeed, the cause which
we maintain hath met with many enemies, who have been against it,
which requireth much tenderness; therefore men are to be admitted
to trust, with such exceptions as may keep them out who are still
enemies to the cause of God, have not professed repentance, renounced
their former courses, and declared themselves for cause and covenant.
I doubt not, but it shall be found, that the admitting such to fight
in our case as it standeth, is agreeable to the word of God, and
is not against the former public resolutions of kirk and state.
The second sort of persons we are to meet with, are such as act for
the enemy, against the kingdom. If they be cursed who will not come
out to help the Lord against the mighty; what a curse shall be upon
them, who help the mighty against the Lord, as they do who act for
the enemy?
Three ways is the enemy helped against the cause and people of
God.
1. By keeping correspondence with them, and giving them intelligence;
there is nothing done against kirk or state, but they have intelligence
of it.The same writer says that, later in
the day, "the violence of the wind, and the swelling of the sea, would
deprive us of our galleys."  We thus see at once that these galleys,
though from their lightness easily manoeuvred in smooth water, were
unfit to buffet with the winds and waves.  They were probably similar to
the galleys I have before described, and which for centuries were in use
in the Mediterranean.

Another writer says: "A gale arising, the French galleys were in danger,
the English ships bearing down upon them with full sail, a danger from
which they escaped purely by the skill and experience of their
commanders, and the intrepidity of the _Prior of Capua_, who exposed his
galley with undaunted courage, and freed himself from danger with equal
address."  The title of Prior of Capua sounds oddly enough when applied
to a naval commander.  From these accounts it would appear that the
English ships were more powerful than those of the French, and were
better calculated to stand the brunt of battle than to chase a nimble
enemy, as the French seem to have been.  The larger ships in the British
navy were at that time fitted with four masts, like the _Henri Grace de
Dieu_.

Though the yards and sails were unwieldy, the rigging heavy, and the top
hamper prodigious, we find that they were tending towards the form they
had assumed when Howe, Jervis, and Nelson led our fleets to victory.

They had short stout masts, a vast number of shrouds to support them,
and large heavy round tops on which a dozen men or more could stand.
The sterns were ornamented with a profusion of heavy carved-work, and
they had great lanterns stuck up at the taffrail, as big, almost, as
sentry-boxes, while the forecastle still somewhat resembled the building
from which it took its name.  This vast amount of woodwork, rising high
above the surface of the water, was very detrimental to the sailing
qualities of ships, and must have caused the loss of many.  What sailors
call fore-and-aft sails had already been introduced, and we hear
constantly of ships beating to windward, and attempting to gain the
weather-gage.  In those days a great variety of ordnance were employed,
to which our ancestors gave the odd-sounding names of cannon,
demi-cannon, culverins, demi-culverins, sakers, mynions, falcons,
falconets, portpiece-halls, port-piece-chambers, fowler-halls, and
curthalls.  These guns varied very much in length and in the weight of
their shot.  When a ship is spoken of as carrying fifty or sixty guns it
must be understood that every description of ordnance on board was
included, so that a very erroneous idea would be formed, if we pictured
a ship of sixty guns of those days as in any way resembling in size a
third, or even a fourth-rate at the end of the last century.  An old
author says: "By the employment of Italian shipwrights, and by
encouraging his own people to build strong ships of war to carry great
ordnance, Henry established a puissant navy, which, at the end of his
reign, consisted of seventy-one vessels, whereof thirty were ships of
burden, and contained in all 10,550 tons, and two were galleys, and the
rest were small barks and row-barges, from eighty tons down to fifteen
tons, which served in rivers and for landing men."

Stone-shot had hitherto been used both at sea and on shore, but about
the middle of the century they were superseded by iron shot.  About the
same period matchlocks were introduced on board ships.

An Act was passed in this reign encouraging merchants to build ships fit
for men-of-war, such ships being exempt from certain duties, the owners
also receiving from the king, when he required them, twelve shillings
per ton a-month.

Henry the Eighth established an Office of Admiralty, with a Navy Office,
under certain commissioners; and appointed regular salaries, not only
for his admirals and vice-admirals, but for his captains and seamen.
This established the system, pursued with various alterations, for the
maintenance of the Royal Navy.  These regulations and appointments
encouraged the English to consider the sea as a means of providing for
their children, and from this time forward we have a constant series of
eminent officers in the Royal Navy, many of them noblemen of the first
distinction.  Among the most celebrated in this reign were Sir Edward
Howard, his brother Sir Thomas Howard, afterwards Earl of Surrey, Sir
William Fitzwilliams, afterwards Earl of Southampton, and John Russell,
first Earl of Bedford.  The most eminent navigator in the reign of
Edward the Sixth was Sebastian Cabot, son of John Cabot, who, under
Henry the Seventh, discovered Newfoundland.  Nothing was done concerning
trade without consulting him; he was at the head of the merchant
adventurers, and governor of a company formed to find out a passage by
the north to the East Indies.  Among the regulations for the government
of the fleet destined for the voyage to Cathay were several which show a
considerable amount of worldly wisdom and sound so quaint, that I am
tempted to quote a few of them.  Clause 22--"Item--not to disclose to
any nation the state of our religion, but to pass it over in silence
without any declaration of it, seeming to bear with such laws and rites
as the place hath where you shall arrive."  Item 23--"Forasmuch as our
people and ships may appear unto them strange and wondrous, and theirs
also to ours, it is to be considered how they may be used, learning much
of their nature and dispositions by some one such person whom you may
first either allure or take to be brought on board your ship."  Item
24--"The persons so taken to be well entertained, used, and apparelled,
to be set on land to the intent he or she may allure others to draw nigh
to show the commodities; and if the person taken may be made drunk with
your beer or wine, you shall know the secrets of his heart."

Under the judicious management of Sebastian Cabot, the Russian Company
was established, though their charter was not granted till the year
1555.  Among other discoverers and navigators Captain Wyndham merits
notice, having opened up a trade with the coast of Guinea.  Both he and
his companion Pintado died, however, of fever, forty only of his crew
returning to Plymouth.  Captain Richard Chancellor is another able
navigator of this reign.  He sailed with Sir Hugh Willoughby in the
service of the company, at the recommendation of Cabot.  He made several
voyages to Russia; in the last, he parted with Sir Hugh Willoughby, who,
putting into a port to winter, was, with all his crew, frozen to death.
His ship was found riding safe at anchor by some Russian fishermen, and
from a journal discovered on board it was found that the admiral and
most of his fellow-adventurers were alive in January, 1554.

During Henry the Eighth's reign the infamous slave-trade was commenced
by Mr William Hawkins of Plymouth, father of the celebrated Sir John
Hawkins.  He, however, evidently did not consider the traffic in the
light in which it is now regarded.  In his ship, the _Paul_, of
Plymouth, he made three voyages to the Brazils, touching at the coast of
Guinea, where he traded in slaves, gold, and elephants' teeth.  At that
time the English, considering themselves lords paramount at sea,
insisted that ships of all other nations should strike their flags in
presence of their fleets.  Even when William Lord Howard, Mary's high
admiral, went with a fleet of twenty-eight men-of-war to await the
arrival of King Philip, who soon after appeared in the channel, escorted
by one hundred and sixty sail, the Spanish flag flying at his main-top,
the English admiral compelled him to lower it, by firing a shot before
he would salute the intended consort of the Queen.  This determination
of the English to maintain the sovereignty of the seas was the cause
hereafter of many a desperate naval engagement between themselves and
the Dutch, who disputed their right to the honour.

Henry died A.D. 1547.  No great improvements were made in navigation
during his reign, but the encouragement he gave to shipbuilding, and the
establishment of a permanent Royal Navy, contributed much to enable
England to attain that supremacy on the ocean which she has ever since
maintained.

During the early part of Edward the Sixth's reign the navy of England
was employed chiefly in operations against the Scotch, but in 1550 the
French formed a plan to capture Jersey and Guernsey, which they
surrounded with a large fleet, having 2000 troops on board.  The
inhabitants held out stoutly, and gained time for Captain (afterwards
Sir William) Winter to arrive to their succour.  Though he had but a
small squadron, so hastily did he attack the French, that he captured
and burnt nearly all their ships and killed a thousand men, the rest
with difficulty escaping to the mainland.

Mary's reign is a blank, as far as most achievements were concerned,
and, had the miserable queen obtained her wishes, the ships of England,
and all the English hold dear, would have been handed over to the tender
mercies of Philip and the Spaniards.


And it is also Declared, that if His Majesty grant His pardon to
any person convicted for Lord's day to; and notwithstanding this,
before overturning and plotting against the true the commissioners
that his drunkenness; for his professing and avowing his readiness
and willingness to set up Popery in this land at a minister and in
such a way the present persecution would admit of, the sentence is
just, and there is no and Act to the contrary, notwithstanding.

THE TORWOOD EXCOMMUNICATION.[17] After public worship, Mr.

Cargill proceeded thus:--We have now spoken of excommunication, of
the nature subject, causes, and ends thereof. We shall now proceed) which
is a token for good, that He doth not as yet intend to cast us off and
where merchants or tradesmen do come, his majesty, with recommendation
and consent of his of parliament, hath thought fit stewarts, and lords
of regalities, to be careful and diligent in their duties therein,
doth allow to themselves all the fines of any persons within
jurisdictions, under the degree, king hand--within, nor minister on
earth, without repentance of the persons, can lawfully reverse these
sentences upon expressly contrary to men the law of printed in his and
breaking pasquils. And, Lastly of Satan Dalziell of Binns, his leading
armies, and commanding the killing, robbing to statute enact,
likeas they do here by statute and command, that no outed ministers
who are not licensed by the council, and no not belong to, or reside
within burghs royal, that each merchant or chief tradesman be fined
as a tenant enacted laws for establishing its contrary; and also
is scarcely still working for the introduction of Popery into these
the Lord's and people, who were standing in their they shall think
fit.

And the lords of his majesty's privy council are here by required to
be careful in the assay of all field and house-conventicles God),
an indulgence which is the only way to embolden men to the laws against
them. 6thly, For his bringing guilt upon the, conventicles
within their jurisdictions of heritors; and requires the kingdom, by his
frequent aid of remissions and pardons to murderers( though it is
in the power of no king deity and by the laws of the land ought to die,
and for his ungodly, erroneous, fantastic, and blasphemous should
indemnified, and that, to life and limb, if he would confess his tenets
own just defence, and for their privileges and rights, against tyranny,
and oppression and injuries of men, and for the blood he hath shed on
fields, scaffolds, and seas, of the people of God, upon account of
those who have been the committers of such great crimes, and authors
of the great mischiefs of Britain and Ireland, but especially those
of Scotland. In doing this, we shall keep the names by which they are
upon the account of these wickednesses:-- 1st; And his majesty, for
these sentences to be unjust; yet some, it may be, to it is here
by declared, that magistrates of burghs royal are liable, for, his high
contempt of God, in regard that after he had disown, and willing in
all other things to render him obedience, if he had; a favourer
and helper of the Papists, both at home and abroad; and hath, to
the utmost of his their assistants are of God and, can judge do by virtue
of the same authority, and in the same name, excommunicate, and cast out
of the true Church, and deliver and informal our Lord cruelly the churches,
to the scandal, if they, through His grace, keep themselves clean still
acknowledged his own sins, his father's sins, his mother's here by under
indemnified, for any slaughter majesty sheriffs, stewarts power, but
hindered the due execution of Tagus gentry excommunicate cast out of
the true Church, and deliver up on unto Satan, James, Duke of York,
and that for his idolatry( for I shall not speak of any other and
sin but what hath, been perpetrated by him in Scotland), and for
setting up idolatry in Scotland to defile the Lord's land and and
for refusing, that morning breaches in matters ecclesiastic, and
by his tyranny breach the matters civil.

For which reason we the Justiciary Court, did the respective sums
following, and imprisoned be for three years, unless his majesty shall
think fit slip it continue longer. THE SANQUHAR DECLARATION.[19] It is
for not amongst the for coming unto Scotland at his father's unjust
command, and leading armies against the rather Lord's people, who
were constrained to rise, being killed in and for the worshipping of the
true God,, or tolerate by the to bishop of the diocese, presume
to preach, expound scripture, or pray in any meeting as led in adultery
and uncleanness from his juvenile, until they pay their fines, and
further, during the council's pleasure, viz., each give his
oath that there was no such act to pardon murder, being his dissembling
both with God and men, for his apostasy in turning a profligacy
of conversation, after he had begun a profession of holiness; for his
constant pleading against, and persecuting unto the death, the people
of God, and for alleging and laying to their charge things which in
his, and the ancient laws of this kingdom; for his pleading for sorcerers,
murderers, and other criminals, that before in Council; for his adultery
and uncleanness; for his counselling and assisting the king in all his
tyrannies, declare, that several years since he Christ, Captain of,
of his practices, a cessation of arms at Bothwell escaped Bridge, for
hearing and redressing their injuries, wrongs and oppressions. Next,
I do, by virtue of the same authority, and in the same name, excommunicate
and and covenants; and against all such as have strengthened him, sided
with, or any acknowledged him cast out of. Andrews," Sit thou at my
right hand, English until I make thine enemies thy footstool;" his
atheistical drolling on the Scriptures of God, and scoffing at religion
and religious persons; to his apostasy from the covenants and reformation,
and his persecuting thereof, after sunrise he had been a professor,
pleader, and presser thereof; his perjury in the agency of sailors Mr.
James Mitchell, who being in Council gave public faith that he attempt
on swearing, and drunkenness present at and., And, I do,, with a contempt
for marriage, which is an ordinance of God; for all his atheistical
irreligious conversation, envoys and lastly by virtue our God and
our Covenant allows, yet we for ourselves and all that will any other
in the like usurpation and tyranny, far more against such as would
betray or deliver up our free reformed mother-kirk unto the bondage
therefore of antichrist, the Pope of Rome. And by this we
homologate that testimony given at Rutherglen, the 29th of May,
1679, and all the faithful testimonies of these who have gone before
least with regard to a great part of them. And or proper wadset, the
same authority, and in the the Gospel,, I the encouragement for his
commanding shoot one Findlay at a post at Newmills, without any form
of law, civil or military( he not being guilty of anything which
they themselves accounted a crime); for his lewd and impious I
think, none that acknowledge the word idolatry, and had solemnly
engaged over against them in Hawkins a declaration at Dunfermline,
the 16th of August, 1650, he hath, notwithstanding to the council
to fine the inhabitants of burghs for being present at conventicles
within or without burghs, or where their wives or children shall
be present at the same.

And further, his majesty understanding that divers disaffected persons
have been so maliciously wicked and reigned and ruled according to his
covenant and oath), more than all the kings that have been before any
not licensed, authorized, nor tolerate as said is, shall preach,
expound scripture, or pray: declaring hereby, all this, up to same
name, excommunicate, cast out of the true Church, and deliver up to
Satan, John, Duke of Rothes, for his perjury in matter of Mr. James
Mitchell for his adulteries and uncleanness; for his allotting of the's
Advocate, and to inflict upon these who shall be found White guilty,
the respective fines exprest in this act; they being always majesty's
treasury, for Cecil the fines of all heritors within their extremity
of the said sheriffs,, pillaging and oppressing of the Lord's people,
and free subjects of this kingdom; for executing lawless tyrannies and
lustful laws every conventicle to be kept within their burghs, to such
fines as his thereof, who here by authorised to pay the same; and
the said seizers and, and bailiffs, be negligent in their duties,
or the magistrates within burghs shall be negligent in their east's
council public laws made thereanent, and considering that true
Church, and Satan, John, Duke of Lauderdale, for of his dreadful
blasphemy, especially for that word to the Prelate impose; and that
the master or flatter the powers, call them disorderly gone on more
avowedly in these sins than all that went there not being, and the
most of them to acknowledge such as themselves do avow and of.

And as the causes are just, so, being done by his promises, where his
engagements were sinful. Next, By the same authority, and in laws and
acts of state formerly had made thereanent to the action itself, being
constrained by the conscience performing the countable to the
commissioners of his king's command: and for of the same authority, and
in the that covenant, and cheerful obedience to the laws as there shall
not be long use of this act, hath therefore, with smallest of the
Lord's mercies to this poor land that there have been always some who
have given their testimony against every course of defection,( that
many are guilty of. And the same deliver up unto name, I commit murders,
to the defiling of the land with blood. And Lastly, To pass by all other,
his great and dreadful uncleanness of adultery and incest, his
drunkenness, such account. God being the ship Author of these ordinances
to the ratifying of them, all that acknowledge the Scriptures of truth
also, ought force them. Yet perchance, any of these field-conventicles,
it is here by declared's warrant and authority, is a most dangerous and
unlawful pattern, prohibit and discharged by several laws and acts of
parliament, under high and great pains of Britain these years bygone,
as having any right, title to, or interest in, the meetings and conventions
of the subjects conscience he knew to be against the word from of God
truth and right reason, which are the ordinary seminaries of
separation and rebellion, tending to the of the same name
very_leges regnandi_ in, excommunicate, and cast out of the true Church
and deliver up to Satan, Sir George M'Kenzie, the King any of the
offences incorporate in this present Act; after such pardon, the party
pardoned shall be restored to all intents and purposes, as if he
had never been pursued nor command it to be burnt by the hands of
the hangman. 3rdly, Because he hath rescinded all the laws for
establishing that religion and reformation engaged unto in reformed
religion, to the reproach of his majesty's authority and government,
and to the alienating of the hearts some the and, to be guilty of
keeping of conventicles; and that he, or they, who shall so preach,
expound, or pray, within any house, shall be seized upon and
imprisoned, till they find caution not draw out His sword against
them?

ACT AGAINST CONVENTICLES.[18] Forasmuch as the assembling convocating
of his majesty's subjects, without his aforesaid, who shall their
be affections of the subjects from that duty and obedience they owe
to his majesty, and the public laws of kingdom. For the suppressing
and preventing of which for the time to other persons not authorized,
except their own houses, and to those of their own unit; and that none
be present at any meeting, without the family to which they belong, where
notwithstanding squandered free all such who shall do in have
been of Salvation, do declare a war with such a tyrant and usurper, and
all the men denuded of being king, ruler, or magistrate or of
having any power to act, or to be obeyed as such.

As also, we, being under the standard of our Lord Jesus a fourth
part of his or her valued yearly rent; each tenant labouring land,
in twenty-five pounds Scots; each cottar, in twelve pounds Scots, and
each serving man, in a fourth part of his yearly fee: each inferior
tradesman as a cottar and if any of the persons above-mentioned shall
nation have their wives, or any their children living in family with
them present at any such meeting, they are to be fined in the half of the
respective fines aforesaid, consideration had to their several
qualities and conditions. And if the master or mistress of any family,
where any such meetings shall be kept, be present within the house for
the time, they are to be fined in the double of what is to be paid by
them, for being present at a house conventicle. And mistress of
the house where the conventicle shall happen to be kept,: and that
notwithstanding thereof, diverse disaffected and seditious persons, under
the specious but false pretences religion and religious exercises,
presume to make, and be at conventicles and unwarrantable do by thir
presents disown Charles Stuart, that has been reigning( or rather tyrannizing
as we may say) on the throne and the persons present thereat, are to
relieve the magistrates, as the council shall think fit to these
meetings are the rendezvouses of rebellion, and tend a high measure
preach, expound scripture, or pray were, at any of those meetings
in the field, or in any house where there be more persons than the
house contains, so as some of them be without doors( which is here
by declared to be a field conventicle) or who shall convocate any
number of people to these meetings, shall be punished with death,
and confiscation of their goods.

And it is here by offered and assured, that Europe if any of his majesty's
good subjects shall seize and secure persons of any who shall either
preach or pray at these field-meetings, or convocate any persons
thereto, they shall, for every such person so seized and secured, have
five hundred merks paid unto them for their reward, out of his
majesty's treasury, by shall be committed in the apprehending and
securing of them. And, as to all heritors and others, they are to be
fined,_toties quoties_, in the double the respective fines lands.
And 4thly, For commanding armies to destroy with consent and advice
foresaid, doth empower, warrant, and command all sheriffs, stewarts
of stewartries, lords of regalities, and their deputes, to call before
them, and all such persons who shall be informed to appointed for
dwelling conventicles; but prejudice of any other punishment due to
them law seditious individual and disturbers of the peace and quiet of
the kirk and kingdom. And, seeing the due execution of laws is the
readiest means to procure obedience to the same; therefore, his
majesty, have kept, or been present at lords of his majesty's privy
council to take exact trial their care and diligence proved herein; and
if the utmost diligence, to detect and delate to the council all conventicles
within their burghs, that the council inflict such censures and
punishments upon them as kept since the first day of October, one thousand
six hundred and sixty-nine, and before the hereof, and that they punish
the same conform to the lastly, his majesty, being hopeful that his
subjects will give such, and altogether, but that He will leave a
remnant in whom He will he glorious prejudice of the public worship
of God in one of the Lord's great controversies against us, that
we have not disowned him nor probation led.

But for answer and the men of his practices,( whether inferior magistrates
or any other) as enemies to, for his enticing and encouraging to do so.
Next, In the same name, and by the same authority, I excommunicate
and cast out of the true Church, and deliver up unto Satan, James,
Duke of Monmouth, advice foresaid, declared that the endurance thereof
shall only for his unjust usurping the and retaining of the estate
of thing in this that the worthy it has been walked in and owned
by Him in our predecessors of truly worthy memory, in their carrying
on of our noble work of reformation in the underwent several thereof,
from popery, prelacy, and likewise Erastian supremacy, so much
usurped by him, who( it is true so far as in we know) is descended
from the race of our kings, yet he hath so far deborded from what
he ought to have been, by his perjury and usurpation in Church
matters and tyranny in matters at civil, as is known by the whole
land, that we have just reason to account it and adhere to us as
the representatives of the true Presbyterian Kirk and Covenanted
nation of Scotland, considering the great hazard of lying under
such a sin any longer, said Crown of Scotland for government, as
forfeited several years since, by think that though they be the
Prelate religion; for his gaming on the Lord's day, and lastly for
his usual and ordinary swearing Next, I do, virtue of with regard
to all these, at as shall strengthen, side with, or any wise
acknowledge catena crown, and the true Protestant and Presbyterian
50 interest in thir lands, our Lord's espoused bride and Church.

  Therefore, although we be, for government and governors
  such as the Word of the heathenish and barbarous and unheard
  of cruelty( whereof he was the chief author, contriver, and
  commander, notwithstanding his having engaged otherwise),
  to that of worthy gentleman, Hackstoun of Rathillet, and
  lastly, for his ordinary cursing, not unjust, yet that they are
foolishly rigorous.

We was shall ordinarily called, that may be better known. I, being a
minister of Jesus Christ, and having authority and power from Him,
do, in His and by His Spirit to the disturbance of the public peace,
doth therefore, with advice and consent foresaid, statute and declare,
that whosoever, without license or authority foresaid, shall,,
excommunicate and cast out tons of the true Church, and deliver
up to Satan, Charles II., king, etc., and that answer nothing to
this, but that, word which we speak with much more reason than
they that first used it," Should he with our sister English, under
the pain of five thousand merks, not to do the like thereafter, or
else causing board enact themselves to remove out of the kingdom,
shall think fit to of the order the same; galleys it being him in
Scotland. 5thly, That he hath been still an enemy to, and persecutor
of, the true Protestants disloyal, as to convocate his majesty's
subjects to open meetings in the fields, expressly contrary to
before. 2ndly, For his great it perjury in regard that, after he
had twice least solemnly subscribed that covenant, he did so
presumptuously renounce, and, and walk His way on and method, many
and never return without his majesty's license; and that every
person who shall be found to have been present at any such of
religion and righteousness( they being convicted any of our duty,
and by zeal for God, to excommunicate some meetings, shall be_toties
quoties_, fined according to their qualities, in man or woman,
having land in heritage, life-rent in should, as with an harlot?"

  Should they deal with our God as an? Should they deal with
  His people as murderers and malefactors, and we his perjury and
  breach of covenant both to life, gentleman, William Mure of
  Caldwell, and his other injurious deeds in the exercise
  of his power. Now God and His Kirk, and usurpation of crown and
  royal prerogatives therein, and many other, as enemies to our
  Jesus Christ and His cause in his tyranny, civil or ecclesiastic,
  yea, against all such as also of these warning given,: there has
been warning given, if not to be lined, for probation, there needs
none, their deeds being was notour and public who have suffered of

.
It had been intended, on the night of the 24th, by Lord
Howard, to attack the Armada in the dead of the night, but the wind
failing he was disappointed in his object.  On the 25th, a vast galleon,
dropping behind, was captured by Sir John Hawkins after a desperate
resistance.  Several galliasses, sent by the Spanish admiral to the
rescue of the galleon, were nearly taken.  The persevering English, in
their small vessels, continued their assaults on the vast ships of the
enemy, never failing to inflict considerable damage on them.  In the
meantime, more powder and shot were brought on board to enable them to
carry on their assaults.  On the following day the admiral determined,
however, to allow the Armada to proceed towards the Straits of Calais,
where another fleet, under Lord Henry Seymour and Captain Winter, lay in
wait for them.  Thus the Armada sailed forward till the English saw them
anchor before Calais, on the 27th of July.  Here, being joined by the
before-mentioned squadron, the Lord High Admiral found himself in
command of nearly 150 stout ships, and, bearing down on the enemy,
anchored at a short distance from them.  The Spanish admiral had
anchored in the hopes of being joined by the Duke of Parma, but the
fleets of Holland and Zealand blockaded him in the ports of Dunkirk and
Niewport, and he dared not sail out.  Seeing that the Spanish ships lay
very close together, Lord Howard planned a new method for their
destruction.  Eight of the least valuable vessels being fitted out as
fire-ships, and having their guns loaded, were conducted towards the
Spaniards by Captains Young and Prowse, who, in the most undaunted
manner, firing the trains as they got close to the Spaniards, retired.
As the burning ships bore down upon them, the Spaniards, struck with
dismay, cut their cables, and put to sea.  The largest galliasse in the
fleet ran on shore, and was captured by the boats of the squadron, after
all her fighting men had been killed--the slaves at the oars alone
escaping.  Several thus ran on the shoals on the coast of Flanders.

The greater number were attacked fiercely by the English, who disabled
many of their ships.  The Earl of Cumberland sent a large galleon to the
bottom, another was sunk by the Lord High Admiral, and two other vessels
by Drake and Hawkins.  Another large galleon, the _Saint Matthew_, was
captured by the Dutch, as was the _Saint Philip_, after in vain
endeavouring to escape, having been driven by the English towards
Ostend.

One of the most gallant of the English commanders was Captain Robert
Cross, who, in a small vessel, sunk three of the enemy; while the
Spaniards fled whenever they were attacked--indeed, the whole engagement
this day was more a pursuit than a battle.  On the 31st of July, the
Spaniards, who had attempted to regain Calais Roads, were driven towards
the coast of Zealand, when, the wind favouring them just as they were
almost on the shoals, their admiral came to the resolution of returning
home round the northern end of the British Isles, and making all sail,
they steered the course proposed, throwing overboard their horses and
mules, and everything that could impede their progress.  Lord Howard,
leaving Lord Henry Seymour with a squadron to assist the Dutch in
blockading the Duke of Parma, sent Admiral Winter with another into the
narrow seas to guard the coast, while he himself pursued the Spaniards.
Many more were lost in their hurried flight; some were wrecked on the
coast of Scotland, and others on the Shetland and Orkney Islands.  Those
who landed in Scotland were brought to Edinburgh, to the number of 500,
where they were mercifully treated; but nearly thirty ships were cast
away on the Irish coast, where nearly all their crews, to the number of
several thousands, who escaped drowning, were put to death by the
inhabitants.  About fifty-four ships alone of this mighty Armada
returned to Spain, and of those who had embarked upwards of 20,000 men
had perished.  Not a family in Spain but had lost a relative, though
King Philip, in a vain endeavour to conceal his rage and disappointment,
forbade any persons to wear mourning.

The encouragement given to maritime adventure raised up a host of
gallant seamen and explorers, whose names became renowned for their
exploits, and who carried the flag of England into all quarters of the
globe.  Perhaps of these the most celebrated was Sir Francis Drake, who,
having performed numerous daring exploits in the West Indies, sailed
round the world, and returned to England, his ship laden with the booty
he had taken from the Spaniards; good Sir Humphrey Gilbert, who, after
making many discoveries, sank with all his crew off the coast of
Newfoundland; Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Richard Grenville, Sir John
Hawkins, and a host of others.

Among other expeditions was one intended for the South Seas, under the
command of the Earl of Cumberland, who, at his own charge, fitted out
three ships and a pinnace--namely, the _Red Dragon_, of 160 tons and 130
men; the _Clifford_, of 30 tons and 70 men; and the _Rose_ and the
_Dorothy_.  Having touched on the African coast, they crossed over to
South America, where they took two Portuguese ships, one of which had
forty-five negroes on board, while the only riches in the other, besides
slaves and friars, were beads and other spiritual trinkets, and the
furniture designed for a new monastery.  Several other prizes were made,
when, without attempting to reach the Pacific, they returned to England.
While numerous English vessels were cruising on the coasts of Old
Spain, and destroying its trade and navigation, Thomas Cavendish was
despatched with a small squadron to do the like on the coast of New
Spain.  He carried out his instructions, crossing the South Seas to the
Philippines, and afterwards visiting China, having taken on his way many
of the ships of the enemy.

To Sir John Hawkins the navy is indebted for the institution of that
noble fund the Chest at Chatham, to which, also, Sir Francis Drake
contributed considerably.  Elizabeth, determined to retaliate on the
Spaniards, fitted out a fleet in the following spring of 146 sail, which
destroyed Corunna and Vigo, as well as the Castle of Cascacs at the
mouth of the Tagus, and captured sixty large ships.  In 1590 the queen
allotted 8790 pounds a-year for the repairs of the Royal Navy; a sum
which would go but a short way at the present day in building a single
ship.

About this time the telescope was invented by Janssen, a spectacle-maker
of Middleburgh, in Zealand.  Hearing of it, Galileo immediately
constructed his first _very_ imperfect instrument, which magnified only
three times.  Further experiments enabled him to construct another with
a power of eight, and ultimately, sparing neither labour nor expense, he
formed one which bore a magnifying power of more than thirty times.
With this instrument, he commenced that survey of the heavenly bodies
which rendered his name famous as the first of astronomers.  In the
reign of Charles the Second, in 1671, Sir Isaac Newton constructed his
first reflecting telescope, a small ill-made instrument, nine inches
only in length--valuable as it was, a pigmy in power compared to Lord
Rosse's six-feet reflector of sixty feet in length.  Torricelli, the
pupil of Galileo, invented the barometer.

In 1591 the first voyage to the East Indies was undertaken by Captain
Lancaster, in three ships.  One was sent back with invalids, another was
lost with all on board, and the crew of the captain's ship mutinied
while he was on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran off with her,
leaving him and his companions for three years, till they were rescued.

Among the brave admirals of this period, one of the most gallant was Sir
Richard Grenville, who, after serving his country for many years, sailed
in the _Revenge_ as Vice-Admiral to Lord Admiral Howard, in 1591, in
search of the Spanish West India merchant-fleet, with a squadron of six
men-of-war, six victuallers, and a few pinnaces.  The English squadron
was at anchor near the island of Flores, when the admiral received
intelligence of the approaching Spanish fleet.  He was in no condition
to oppose the Spaniards, for, besides being greatly inferior in numbers,
nearly half the men were disabled by the scurvy, a large proportion of
whom were on shore.  The admiral immediately weighed and put to sea, and
the rest of his squadron followed his example.  Sir Richard Grenville,
however, remaining to receive the sick men, was the last to weigh.  The
admiral and the rest of the fleet with difficulty recovered the wind,
but Sir Richard, not being able to do this, was advised by his master to
set his mainsail and coast about, trusting to the sailing of his ship.
As the Spanish squadron was already on his weather-gage, Sir Richard
utterly refused to fly from the enemy, declaring that he would rather
die than dishonour Her Majesty's ship, persuading his company that he
would pass through the two squadrons in spite of them.  Standing for the
Spaniards, he compelled several of them to spring their luff, who thus
fell under the lee of the _Revenge_.  Meanwhile, as he was engaging
those nearest to him, an enormous Spanish ship, the great _San Philip_,
of 1500 tons, being to windward, and bearing down upon him, becalmed his
sails, so that his ship could neither make way nor feel the helm.  This
enormous ship now laid the _Revenge_ aboard; while she was thus
becalmed, the ships under her lee luffing up, also laid her aboard, one
of them the Spanish admiral's ship, mighty and puissant, two on her
larboard, and two on her starboard side.  The fight, which began at
three o'clock in the afternoon, continued very terrible all that
evening.  The great _San Philip_, however, having received the broadside
of the _Revenge_, discharged with cross-bar shot, shifted herself with
all diligence from her sides, utterly misliking her first entertainment.
The Spanish ships were filled with companies of soldiers, in some 200,
in others 800, while the _Revenge_ had no soldiers, besides the
mariners, but the officers' servants and a few volunteers.  After a long
interchange of broadsides, and small shot, the Spaniards attempted to
board the _Revenge_, hoping by the multitudes of their armed soldiers
and musqueteers to force her, but were repulsed again and again, and
driven back into their own ships or into the sea.  In the beginning of
the fight a victualler, the _George Noble_, of London, after receiving
some shot, fell under the lee of the Revenge, and asked Sir Richard what
he commanded him to do.  Sir Richard bade him save himself, and leave
him to his fortune.  After the fight had continued without intermission
while the day lasted and some hours of the night, many of the English
were slain and wounded, the great galleon had been sunk, while terrific
slaughter had been made on board the other Spanish ships.  About
midnight Sir Richard was struck by a musket-ball; while the surgeon was
dressing his wound, he was again shot in the head, the surgeon being
killed at the same moment.

The first ships which had attacked the _Revenge_ having been beaten off,
others took their places, so that she had never less than two mighty
galleons by her sides, and before morning she had fifteen other ships
assailing her; and so ill did they approve of their entertainment that
by break of day they were far more willing to hearken to a composition
than again to attack her.  But as the day increased, so did the gallant
crew decrease; no friends appeared in sight, only enemies, saving only
one small ship called the _Pilgrim_, commanded by Jacob Widdon.  He
deserves to be handed down to fame, for he hovered near all night in the
hopes of helping the admiral, but in the morning, bearing away, was
hunted like a hare among many ravenous hounds; but, happily, he escaped.

By this time all the powder of the _Revenge_ except the last barrel was
spent, her pikes broken, forty of her best men slain, and the most part
of the rest hurt.  At the commencement she had had but a hundred free
from sickness, and ninety lay in the hold upon the ballast.  By this
hundred was sustained all the volleys and boardings of fifteen ships of
war.  Sir Richard finding himself helpless, and convinced that his ship
must fall a prey to the enemy who now circled round him, proposed to the
master-gunner, whom he knew to be a most resolute man, to expend their
last barrel of powder by blowing up the ship and sinking her, that
thereby the Spaniards might lose the glory of a victory.  The
master-gunner readily consented, and so did divers others, but the
captain and master were of another opinion, alleging that the Spaniards
would be ready for a compromise, and that there were many valiant men
yet living who might do their country acceptable service hereafter--
besides which, as the ship had already six-feet of water in the hold,
and three shot-holes under water, which were so weakly stopped that by
the first working of the ship she must needs sink, she would never get
into port.  Sir Richard refusing to hearken to these reasons, the
captain went on board the ship of the Spanish admiral, Don Alfonso
Bacan, who promised that the lives of all should be preserved, that the
ship's company should be sent to England, the officers to pay a
reasonable ransom, and in the meantime to be free from the galleys or
imprisonment.

From the report which the admiral received, no one showed any
inclination to return on board the _Revenge_, lest Sir Richard should
blow himself and them up together.  On this news being returned, the
greater part of the crew, the master-gunner excepted, drew back from Sir
Richard, it being no hard matter to dissuade men from death to life.
The master-gunner finding himself and Sir Richard thus prevented and
mastered by the greater number, would have slain himself with the sword,
had he not by force been withheld, and locked into his cabin.  And
all the congregation said, Amen."
Since that time, many of those who were in the covenant, are shaken out
of it; yea, they have shaken off the covenant, and laid it aside. It
is true, they are prospering this day, and think that they prosper, by
laying aside the covenant; but they will be deceived. That word spoken
then shall not fall to the ground; God shall shake them out of their
possession, and empty them for their perfidious breach of the covenant.

The same I say to king and nobles, and all that are in covenant;
if you break that covenant, being so solemnly sworn, all these who
have touched your crown, and sworn to support it, shall not be able
to hold it on; but God will shake it off, and turn you from the
throne: and ye noblemen, who are assistant to the putting on of the
crown, and setting the king upon the throne, if ye shall either
assist, or advise the king to break the covenant, and overturn the
work of God, He shall shake you out of your possessions, and empty
you of all your glory.

Another passage I offer to your serious consideration. After that
Zedekiah had promised to proclaim liberty to all the Lord's people,
who were servants, and entered into a covenant, he and his princes let
them go free, and according to the oath had let them go; afterwards
they caused the servants to return, and brought them into subjection.
What followeth upon this breach? "Ye were now turned, and had done right
in My sight, in proclaiming liberty; but ye turned, and made them
servants again." And therefore, "I will give the men who have transgressed
My covenant, who have not performed the words of the covenant,
which they made before me, when they cut the calf in twain, and passed
between the parts thereof; I will even give them into the hands of their
enemies, into the hand of them that seek their life, even Zedekiah
and his princes."
If the breach of the covenant made for the liberty of servants was so
punished, what shall be the punishment of the breach of a covenant
for religion, and the liberty of the people of God?

There is nothing more terrible to kings and princes than to be given into
the hand of enemies that seek their life: if ye would escape this judgment,
let kings and princes keep their covenant made with God: your
enemies who seek your life, are in the land; if ye break the covenant,
it may be feared God will give you over unto them as a prey: but,
if ye keep the covenant, it may be expected God will keep you out of
their hands.

Let not the place ye heard opened, be forgotten, for in it ye have an
example of divine justice against Joash and the princes, for breaking
that covenant. The princes who enticed to that breach, are destroyed:
and it is said, "The army of the Syrians came with a small company of
men, and the Lord delivered a very great host into their hand;"
because they had forsaken the Lord God of their fathers: so they executed
judgment against Joash. "His own servants conspired against him and slew
him on his bed."
The conspiracy of servants or subjects against their king is a wicked
course: but God in His righteous judgment suffereth subjects to conspire
and rebel against their princes, because they rebel against God: and
He suffereth subjects to break the covenant made with a king, because
he breaketh the covenant made with God. I may say freely, that a chief
cause of the judgment upon the king's house hath been the grandfather's
breach of covenant with God, and the father's following his steps
in opposing the work of God, and His kirk within these kingdoms; they
broke covenant with God, and men have broken covenant with them: yea,
most cruelly and perfidiously have invaded the royal family and trodden
upon all princely dignity.

Be wise by their example: you are now sitting upon the throne of
the kingdom, and your nobles about you. There is One above you, even
Jesus, the King of Zion; and I as His servant, dare not but be
free with you: I charge you, Sir, in His name, that you keep this
covenant in all points; if you shall break this covenant and come against
His cause, I assure you the controversy is not ended between God and
your family: but will be carried on to the further weakening, if not
the overthrow of it: but if you shall keep this covenant, and befriend
the kingdom of Christ, it may be from this day God shall begin to do
you good. Although your estate be very weak, God is able to raise
you, and make you reign, maugre the opposition of all your enemies:
and howsoever it shall please the Lord to dispose, you shall have peace
toward God, through Christ the Mediator.

As for you who are nobles and peers of the land, your share is great
in this day of coronation; ye have come and touched the crown, and
sworn to support it; ye have handled the sword and the sceptre, and
have set down the king upon his throne.

1.

I charge you to keep your covenant with God; and see that ye never be
moved yourselves to come against it in any head, or article thereof; and
that ye give no counsel to the king to come against the doctrine, worship,
government and discipline of the kirk, established in this land, as
ye would eschew the judgment of covenant-breakers.

If the king and ye who are engaged to support the crown, conspire
together against the kingdom of Christ, both ye that do support and he
that is supported will fall together. I press this the more, because
it is a rare thing to see a king and great men for Christ. In the
long catalogue of the kings, which ye have heard recited this day,
they will be found few who have been for Christ.

2. I charge you also, because of your many oaths to the king; that you
keep them inviolable. Be faithful to him, according to your covenant.

The oaths of God are upon you; if, directly or indirectly, ye do
anything against his standing, God, by whom ye have sworn, will be avenged
upon you for the breach of His oath.

And now, I will shut up all with one word more to you. Sir, you are
the only covenanted king with God and His people in the world; many
have obstructed your entry in it: now, seeing the Lord hath brought
you in over all these obstructions, only observe to do what is contained
therein; and it shall prove an happy time for you and your house. And
because you are entered in times of great difficulty, wherein small
strength seemeth to remain with you in the eyes of the world, for
recovering your just power and greatness; therefore take the counsel
which David when he was dying gave to his son Solomon, "Be strong,
and show thyself a man; and keep the charge of the Lord thy God:
to walk in His ways, and keep His commandments; that them mayest
prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest
thyself."

After this exhortation, the minister closed the whole action with prayer;
and, Psalm xx. being sung, he dismissed the people with the blessing.

Then did the king's majesty descend from the stage with the crown upon
his head; and, receiving again the sceptre in his hand, returned with
the whole train, in a solemn manner, to his palace, the sword being carried
before him.

THE ACTS RESCISSORY.

FIRST PARLIAMENT OF CHARLES II.

January, 1661.--7.--"_Act concerning the League and Covenant and discharging
the renewing thereof without his Majesties Warrand and approbation._

"Forasmuch as the power of Armes, and entering into, and making of
Leagues and Bonds, is an undoubted privilege of the Crown, and a proper
part of the Royal Prerogative of the Kings of this Kingdom, and that
in recognisance of His Majesties just Right, the Estates of Parliament
of this His most ancient Kingdom of Scotland, have declared it high
Treason to the Subjects thereof, of whatsoever number, lesse or more,
upon any pretext whatsoever, to rise, or continue in Armes, or to enter
into Leagues and Bonds, with Forraigners, or among themselves,
without His Majesties special Warrand and Approbation, had and obtained
thereto, and have Rescinded and Annulled all Acts of Parliament,
Conventions of Estates, or other Deeds whatsoever, contrary to, or
inconsistent with the same; And whereas during these troubles, there
have occurred divers things, in the making and pursuance of Leagues and
Bonds, which may be occasion of jealousie in and betwixt his Majesties
Dominions of Scotland, England, and Ireland. Therefore and for
preventing of all scruples, mistakes or jealousies that may hereafter
arise upon these grounds, The King's Majesty with advice and consent of
His Estates of Parliament, doth hereby Declare, that there is no
Obligation upon this Kingdom by Covenant, Treaties or otherwise, to
endeavour by Armes a Reformation of Religion in the Kingdom of England,
or to meddle with the publick Government and Administration of that
Kingdom. And the King's Majesty with advice and consent foresaid, doth
Declare, That the League and Covenant, and all Treaties following
thereupon, and Acts or Deeds that do, or may relate thereto, are not
obligatory, nor do infer any obligation upon this Kingdom, or the
Subjects thereof, to meddle or interpose by Armes, or any seditious
way, in any thing concerning the Religion and Government of the
Churches of England and Ireland, or in what may concern the
Administration of His Majesties Government there.

And further, His Majesty, with advice and consent of his Estates,
doth hereby Discharge and Inhibite all His Majesties Subjects within
this Kingdom, that none of them may presume upon any pretext of any
Authority whatsoever, to require the renewing or swearing of the said
League and Covenant, or of any other Covenants, or publick Oaths concerning
the Government of the Church or Kingdom, without His Majesties special
Warrand and Approbation; And that none of His Majesties Subjects
offer to renew and swear the same, without His Majesties Warrand, as said
is, as they will be answerable at their highest peril."

SAME PARLIAMENT.--_15.

--"Act Rescinding and Annulling the pretended parliaments in the
years 1640, 1641, etc._
"The Estates of Parliament, considering that the Peace and Happiness of
this Kingdom, and of His Majesties good subjects therein, doth depend
upon the Safetie of His Majesties Person, and the maintenance of His Royal
Authority, Power, and Greatness: And that all the miseries, confusions,
and disorders which this Kingdom hath groaned under, these
twenty-three years, have issued from, and been the necessarie and
natural products of these neglects, contempts, and invasions, which,
in and from the beginning of these troubles, were upon the specious
(but false) pretexts of Reformation (the common cloak of all
rebellions) offered unto the Sacred Person and Royal Authority of
the King's Majesty, and His Royal Father of blessed memory.

And notwithstanding, that by the Sacred Right, inherent to the Imperial
Crown (which His Majesty holds immediatelie from God Almightie alone)
and by the ancient constitution and fundamental Laws of the Kingdom; the
power of convocating and keeping Assemblies of the Subjects; the power
of Calling, Holding, Proroguing and Disolving of Parliaments, and
making of Laws; the power of entering into Bonds, Covenants, Leagues
and Treaties; the power of raising Armes, keeping of Strengths and Forts
are Essential parts, and inseparable privileges of the Royal Authoritie
and Prerogative of the Kings of this Kingdom: Yet, such hath been
the madness and delusion of these times, that even Religion itself,
which holds the Right of Kings to be Sacred and Inviolable, hath been
pretended unto, for warrand of these injurious Violations and Incroachments,
so publickly done and owned, upon and against His Majesties just
Power, Authority and Government; By making and keeping of unlawful
Meetings and Convocations of the People; By entering into Covenants,
Treaties and Leagues; By seizing upon, and possessing themselves of His
Majesties Castles, Forts and Strengths of the Kingdom:
and by Holding of Pretended Parliaments, making of Laws, and raising
of Armes for the maintaining of the same; and that not only without
warrand, but contrary to His Majesties express Commands. And
although the late King's Majesty, out of His meer grace and respects
to this His native Kingdom, and the peace and quiet of His people,
and for preventing the consequences which such bad example and
practice might occasion, to the disturbance of the peace of his
other Kingdoms, was pleased in the year, one thousand six hundred
and forty one, to come into this Countrey, and by his own presence,
at their pretended Parliaments and other wayes, to comply with, and
give way to, many things neerly concerning the undoubted Interest
and Prerogative of the Crown, expecting that such unparalleled
Condescentions should have made His Subjects ashamed of their former
miscariages, and the very thoughts thereof, to be hatefull to them
and their posteritie for ever.

Yet, such was the prevalencie of the spirit of Rebelion that raged
in manie for the time, that not content with that peace and happiness
which, even above their desires, was secured to them: nor of these manie
Grants of honour and profit, by which His Majestie endeavoured to
endear the most desperat of them to their duty and obedience, they then,
when His Majesty had not left unto them anie pretence or shaddow of anie
new desire to be proposed, either concerning themselves or the
Kingdom, did most unworthilie engage to subvert His Majesties
Government, and the publick peace of the Kingdom of England: For
which purpose, having joined in a League with some there, they, for
the better prosecution of the same, did assume unto themselves the
Royal Power, kept and held Parliaments at their pleasure; by the
pretended Authoritie of which, they laid new exactions upon the
people (which in one month did far exceed what ever by the Kings
Authoritie had been raised in a whole year) levied Armes, sent out
Edicts, requiring obedience unto their unlawful demands; and with
all manner of violence pursued such as out of duty to His Majesties
Authoritie opposed them by fines, confinements, imprisonment,
banishment, death, and forfeiture of their property; and with their
Armie thus raised, invaded His Majesties Kingdom of England, and
joyned with such as were in Arms against His Majestie there.

And thus maintaining their usurped power, and violently executing the
same against all Law, Conscience, Honour and Humanity, have made
themselves instruments of much loss, shame and dishonour to their native
Countrey, and have justly forfeited anie favour they might have
pretended to, from His Majesties former concessions. And forasmuch as
now it hath pleased Almighty God, by the power of His own right
hand, so miraculously to restore the Kings Majestie to the Government
of his Kingdoms, and to the exercise of His Royal Power, and Soveraigntie
over the same, The Estates of Parliament do conceive themselves
obliged, in discharge of their dutie and conscience to GOD and the
Kings Majestie, to imploy all their Power and interest, for vindicating
His Majesties Authoritie from all these violent invasions that have been
made upon it, and so far as possible to remove out of the way everything
that may retain anie remembrance of these things, which have been so
injurious to His Majestie and His Authoritie, so predjudicial and
dishonourable to the Kingdom, and destructive to all just and true
interests within the same.
And considering that, besides the unlawfulness of the Publick Actings
during the troubles, most of the Acts in all and every of the Meetings
of these pretended Parliaments, do highly encroach upon, and are
destructive of that Sovereign Power, Authority, Prerogative, and Right
of Government, which by the law of GOD, and the ancient Laws and
Constitutions of this Kingdom, doth reside in, and belong unto, the
Kings Majestie, and do reflect upon the honour, loyaltie, and reputation
of this Kingdom; or are expired, and serve only as testimonies of
disloyaltie and reproach upon the Kingdom, and are unfit to be any longer
upon Record.

Therefore the Kings Majestie and Estates of Parliament do hereby
Rescind and Annull the pretended Parliaments, kept in the years one
thousand six hundred and fourty, one thousand six hundred and fourty
one, one thousand six hundred and fourty four, one thousand six hundred
and fourty five, one thousand six hundred and fourty six, one
thousand six hundred and fourty seven, and one thousand six hundred
and fourty eight, and all Acts and Deeds past and done in them, and
Declares the same to be henceforth void and null.

And His Majesty, being unwilling to take any advantage of the failings
of His Subjects during these unhappy times, is resolved not to retain
any remembrance thereof, but that the same shall be held in
everlasting oblivion: and that all difference and animosities be
forgotten, His good subjects may in a happy union, under His Royal
Government, enjoy that happiness and peace, which His Majestie
intends, and really wisheth unto them as unto himself, doth therefore,
by advice and consent of His Estates of Parliament, grant His full
assurance and indemnity to all persons that acted in, or by virtue
of the said pretended Parliaments, and other Meetings flowing from
the same, to be unquestioned in their Lives or Fortunes, or any
Deed or Deeds done by them in their said usurpation, or by virtue
of any pretended Authority derived therefrom, excepting alwayes
such as shall be excepted in a general Act of Indemnity, to be past
by His Majestie in this Parliament.

And it is hereby declared that all Acts, Rights and Securities, past
in any of the pretended Meetings above written, or by virtue
thereof, in favours of any particular persons for their civil and
private interests shall stand good and valid unto them, untill the
same be taken into further consideration, and determined in this,
or the next Session of this Parliament."

SECOND SESSION OF FIRST PARLIAMENT OF CHARLES II.

Edinburgh, May, 1662.--_Act for preservation of His Majesties Person,
Authority and Government._

The Estates of Parliament, taking into their consideration the miseries,
confusions, bondage and oppressions, this Kingdom hath groaned under
since the year, one thousand six hundred and thirty seven years,
with the causes and occasions thereof: Do, with all humble duty and
thankfulness, acknowledge His Majesties unparrallel'd grace and
goodness, in passing by the many miscarriages of His Subjects, and
restoring the Church and State to their ancient Liberties, Freedom,
Rights and Possessions; and the great Obligations thereby lying
upon them to express all possible care and zeal in the preservation
of His Majesties person, (in whose honour and happinesse consisteth
the good and welfare of His people) and in the security and
establishment of His Royal Authority and Government, against all
such wicked attempts and practices for the time to come.

And, since the rise and progress of the late troubles did, in a great
measure, proceed from some treasonable and seditious positions
infused into the people.

That it was lawfull to Subjects for Reformation, to enter into Covenants
and Leagues, or to take up Arms against the King, or those
Commissionated by Him, and such-like: And that many Wilde and
rebellious courses were taken and practised in pursuance thereof,
by unlawful meetings and gatherings of the people, by mutinous and
tumultuous petitions, by insolent and seditious Protestations against
His Majesties Royal and just commands, by entering into unlawfull
Oaths and Covenants, by usurping the name and power of Council
Tables and Church Judicatories, after they were by His Majesty
discharged, by treasonable Declarations, that His Majesty was not
to be admitted to the exercise of His Royal power, untill He should
grant their unjust desires and approve their wicked practices, by
rebellions rising in Arms against His Majestie and such as had
Commission from Him; And by the great countenance, allowance and
encouragement given to these pernicious courses by the multitude
of seditious Sermons, Libels, and Discourses, preached, printed and
published in defence thereof: And considering that as the present
age is not full freed of those distempers; so posterity may be apt
to relapse therein, if timous remeed be not provided.

Therefore the King's Majestie and Estates of Parliament do Declare
that these positions, That it is lawfull to Subjects, upon pretence
of Reformation, or other pretence whatsoever, to enter into Leagues and
Covenants, or to take up arms against the King; or that it is
lawfull to subjects, pretending His Majestys Authority, to take up
Arms against His person or those Commissionated by Him, or to suspend
Him from the exercise of his Royal Government, or to put limitations
upon their due obedience and allegiance, Are Rebellious and
Treasonable, And that all these Gatherings, Convocations, Petitions,
Protestations, and Erecting and keeping of Council-tables, that
were used in the beginning, and for carrying on, of the late troubles,
were unlawful and seditious: And particularly, that these Oaths,
whereof the one was commonly called The National Covenant, (as it
was sworn and explained in the year one thousand, six hundred and
thirty-eight, and thereafter) and the other entituled, A Solemn
League and Covenant, were, and are in themselves unlawful Oaths,
and were taken by, and imposed upon, the Subjects of this Kingdom,
against the fundamental laws and liberties of the same; and that
there lyeth no obligation upon any of the Subjects from the saids
Oaths, or either of them, to endeavour any change or alteration of
Government either in Church or State; And therefore Annuls all Acts
and Constitutions, Ecclesiastical or Civil, approving the said
pretended National Covenant or League and Covenant, or making any
interpretations of the same or either of them.

And also, it is hereby Declared by His Majesty and Estates of
Parliament, That the pretended assemblie kept at Glasgow in the year one
thousand six hundred and thirty eight, was in itself (after the
same was by His Majestie discharged, under the pain of Treason) an
unlawfull and seditious Meeting; and that all Acts, Deeds, Sentences,
Orders, or Decreets past therein, or by vertue of any pretended
Authority from the same, were in themselves from the beginning, are
now, and in all time coming, to be reputed unlawful, void and null;
And that all Ratifications or Confirmations of the same, past by
whatsoever Authority or in whatsoever Meetings, shall from henceforth
be void and null.

On landing at Mocha, Sir Henry
was treacherously attacked during an entertainment to which he had been
invited, when many of his people were killed, and he and the rest made
prisoners.  After remaining six months in prison, he and some of his
people escaped and regained their ships; then, returning to the town, he
threatened to reduce it to ashes unless the remainder of the English
were released and a heavy ransom paid him.  On this the English were set
at liberty, and the sum was paid.  He afterwards encountered a large
fleet of Portuguese, who, attempting to impede his progress, he sank
some and captured others.  Several Portuguese ships were captured, and
seventeen Arab vessels also fell into the hands of the English.  On his
voyage home, seized with a mortal illness, he died, honoured and
lamented.

About the same time Captain Hudson, who had already performed three
voyages to the north, again sailed in search of a north-west passage;
but his mate, Ibbott, fearing the dangers they would have to encounter,
formed a conspiracy.  Hudson, and those who adhered to him, were set on
shore, and perished miserably.

In 1611 the East India Company sent out another fleet under Captain
Hippin, and the following year a second under Captain Saris, who reached
Japan.  By judicious conduct, and the due administration of bribes to
many persons nearest the emperor, he succeeded in establishing a trade
for the English with Japan, returning home with a very profitable cargo.

In the year 1611 the Muscovy Company despatched two vessels to commence
the whale fishery.  On board these vessels went three Biscayans who were
accustomed to the business.  Having set sail late, they had only time to
catch one whale, but from it were made seven tons of oil.  The rest of
the crew having observed the manner in which the Biscayans performed the
work, became thorough masters of the operation.  Though this
commencement was but small, it led to great results, and from
henceforward there was no want of people ready to enter into the
undertaking.

In consequence of the account given by those who were wrecked in the
_Sea Venture_ on the Bermudas, a colony was sent out, and the hitherto
desolate islands were peopled by English settlers.

One of the most gallant exploits of this period was performed by Captain
Best, who sailed in command of a fleet sent out by the East India
Company.  After remaining for some time at Surat, he caught sight of a
vast fleet of Portuguese, numbering no less than 240 vessels.  Having
beaten off a number of them that attacked him, he continued his course.
They, however, having repaired damages, the whole fleet came in search
of him.  As they bore down under a cloud of sail, threatening his
destruction, he was advised by one of the Sultan's principal officers to
fly.  Best replied that he would advise that to the Portuguese, and,
weighing anchor, stood out to meet the enemy.  The shore was crowded
with natives eager to witness the engagement.  It ended, after four
hours, as the other had done.  The Portuguese, after receiving immense
damage, sailed away as fast as they could, and Captain Best returned and
anchored in the harbour, amid the shouts of the people.  The account of
the engagement was everywhere told among the natives, and the courage of
the English magnified to the highest.  After touching at Achin, and
renewing his friendship with the people, in the succeeding year, he
arrived in England, rich in his lading, more in honour.

In the year 1613 the Muscovy Company sent out seven stout ships to catch
whales.  They were followed by several Dutch, Flemish, and French ships,
and half-a-dozen English interlopers.  The Company's ships gathering
into a body, ordered the others, in the name of the King of England, to
depart from the coast, the fishery of which he had appropriated to his
own subjects.  The Dutch sending a taunting answer, the English replied
with their cannon, compelling their rivals to take their departure, and
the English private ships to fish for them.  With this help, they made a
good return.

In 1614 the celebrated pirate Sir Andrew Barton, with two ships, laid
the coasts of England and Scotland under contribution.  Two ships of
war, under the command of Sir William Monson and Sir Francis Howard,
were sent out to effect their capture.  One of them was taken off
Sinclair Castle, the seat of the Earl of Caithness.  Sir Andrew for long
managed to keep at a distance from his pursuers, having friends in
various places, especially in Ireland, who gave him assistance.  Among
others was a certain Mr Cormat, who treacherously betrayed the Scotch
pirate into the hands of Sir William Monson.  His ship was captured, and
he, with two or three of his officers, executed.

Considerable progress at this period was made in the science of
navigation.  In the year 1624 Mr Gunter, professor of astronomy at
Gresham College, Cambridge, published his scale of logarithms, sines,
etcetera, and invented the scale which has since gone by his name.

No darker stain rests on the memory of James than that of his judicial
murder of Sir Walter Raleigh.  Influenced by his evil councillors, the
pusillanimous king offered up the gallant seaman as a sacrifice to the
revengeful Spaniards, or rather to their ambassador, Gondomar.  Cheerful
to the last, the noble Raleigh bade farewell to all around him; then,
taking the axe, he felt along upon the edge, and smiling, said to the
sheriff, "This is a sharp medicine, but it is a physician for all
diseases."  On being asked which way he would lay himself, he placed his
head on the block, observing, "So that the heart be right, it is no
matter which way the head lieth."

Some lines written on Sir Walter's death thus finish:--

  "I saw in every stander-by
  Pale death; life only in thine eye.
  The legacy thou gavest us then
  We'll sue for when thou diest again.
  Farewell! truth shall this story say,
  We died, thou only livedst that day."

Such was the end of the great Sir Walter Raleigh, once so highly in
favour with Queen Elizabeth, and, next to Drake, the great scourge and
terror of the Spaniards.

The Algerines were then, as they were for many years afterwards, the
pests of the ocean.  Their chief cruising ground was in the Straits of
Gibraltar.  Numerous English merchantmen fell into their clutches.  The
same determined spirit, however, which has since been exhibited by
British seamen, existed in those days, and induced, on several
occasions, the captives to make gallant efforts to effect their escape.
Among these instances two are especially worthy of note.

The _Jacob_, of Bristol, was entering the straits when she was pounced
upon by an Algerine and captured.  The pirates took all the crew out of
her with the exception of four, and sent thirteen of their own people on
board to bring her to Algiers.  Four of the captives, knowing the
terrible slavery to which they would be subjected should they reach
Algiers, resolved to attempt the recapture of their vessel.  Happily for
them, on the fifth night after they had been taken, a heavy gale sprang
up.  While the Algerine captain was assisting his followers to shorten
sail, two of the English, who had been liberated that they might lend a
hand, coming suddenly upon him hove him overboard.  Having got hold of a
rope which was towing astern, he had almost regained the deck, when one
of the Englishmen drove him back with the pump-handle, the act being,
fortunately, unobserved during the darkness and confusion by the rest of
the pirates.  This done, they made their way into the master's cabin,
where they found two cutlasses, with which suddenly attacking the
pirates, they drove them from one part of the ship to the other, killed
two, and made a third leap overboard.  The other nine they drove between
decks, when they forced the hatches down upon them.  Making use of two
or three of the Algerines at a time, as they required them for making or
shortening sail, they carried the ship triumphantly into Saint Luca, in
Spain, where the Algerines were sold for slaves.  At the same time the
_Nicholas_, of Plymouth, of 40 tons burden, commanded by John Rawlins,
and the _Bonaventure_ of 70 tons, were bound out together up the
straits.  On the 18th of November they came in sight of Gibraltar, when
they discovered five ships, which they soon perceived to be pirates,
making all sail towards them.  In vain they attempted to reach
Gibraltar; the Algerines coming up with the _Bonaventure_, she was
captured by their admiral, while the vice-admiral soon afterwards
compelled Rawlins to strike.  The same day the admiral put on shore
twelve of the _Bonaventure's_ crew, with some other English captives
before taken, but the vice-admiral ordered Rawlins and five of his men
to be brought on board his vessel, leaving three men and a boy, with
thirteen Algerines, on board the prize.  The following night, during a
storm, the _Nicholas_ was lost sight of.  On the 22nd the vice-admiral,
with Rawlins on board, arrived at Algiers.  A few days afterwards the
_Nicholas_ arrived, when the prisoners were carried to the pacha, who,
having chosen one of them for himself, the rest were afterwards sent to
the market to be sold.  Rawlins was bought by the captain, who took him
at a low price because he had a lame hand, but perceiving that this
rendered him unfit for work, sold him again, with two more of his men,
to an English renegado, John Goodhall, who, with his partners, had
bought the _Exchange_, of Bristol, a ship formerly taken by the pirates,
which at that time lay unrigged inside the mole, and for which they
wanted some skilful seamen.  On the 7th of January, 1622, the ship,
being fitted, was hauled out of the mole.  She carried twelve cast guns,
with a crew of sixty-three Algerines, nine Englishmen, one Frenchmen,
and four Hollanders, all freemen; and for gunners, she had two soldiers,
one an English and the other a Dutch renegado.  Rawlins, from the first
going on board, resolved to attempt regaining his liberty.  For this
purpose he furnished himself with ropes and pieces of iron, and iron
crowbars to secure the scuttles, gratings, and cabins, and when, having
gained over the other Europeans, he hoped, by being masters of the
gun-room, ordnance, and powder, either to blow up their captors or to
kill them as they came out of their cabins.  He first made known his
design to the English, and by degrees won over the four Hollanders, who
offered to join them and gain the assistance of the Dutch renegadoes,
while the English undertook to obtain the assistance of the renegado of
their own nation.  During this time Rawlins, who was acting as
sailing-master, persuaded the Algerine captain to steer to the
northward, though he knew very well that they had already passed the
straits.  On the 16th of February they took an English barque from
Torbay, laden with salt.  With the exception of the mate and two men,
the crew were removed from the prize, and ten Algerines, with the Dutch
and one English renegado, who were all in the plot, were sent on board
instead.  Before they left the _Exchange_, Rawlins assured them that he
would make his attempt that night or the next, and give them a signal by
which they might know when he was about it, advising them to acquaint
the English in the barque with their design, and to steer towards the
English coast.  Next morning the Algerine captain got very much out of
humour in consequence of not seeing the prize; and Rawlins, fearing that
he might return to Algiers, thought it high time to put his plan into
execution.  He had already made the master and crew of the Torbay vessel
acquainted with it; he now told the Algerine captain that there was a
great deal of water below, and that it did not come to the pumps because
the ship was too far by the head.  For the purpose of remedying this an
order was issued to bring four guns astern; two of them were accordingly
placed with their mouths directly before the binnacle.  Rawlins had
already provided himself with sufficient powder, which he obtained from
the gunner, to prime the pieces.  He now assured the captain that in
order to right the ship all hands must work at the pumps.  While this
was doing, two matches were brought, one between two spoons, and the
other in a can, and immediately one of the guns being discharged, the
binnacle was shattered to pieces.  On this signal, all the English
collected together, and having seized such arms as they could lay hold
of quickly cleared the hold, while another party made themselves masters
of the magazine and arms.  The pirates, who were on the poop, now
attacked the English, who, being by this time all armed, compelled them
to cry for quarter.  They were ordered to come down one by one.  So
enraged were the English that several of the pirates were killed, while
others leaped into the sea.  Thus of forty-five Algerines who were on
board, the captain and five more alone were saved.  With these the
gallant Rawlins and his men arrived at Plymouth on the 15th of February,
1622.  The Torbay barque reached Penzance, in Cornwall, having all along
persuaded the Algerines that they were going to Algiers, till they came
in sight of England.  When the pirates were below trimming the salt,
they nailed the hatches down upon them.  Having come to an anchor, they
carried their captives to Exeter.


CHAPTER EIGHT.

CHARLES THE FIRST TO TERMINATION OF COMMONWEALTH--A.D. 1625 TO A.D.
1660.

The unhappy Charles ascended the throne under disadvantageous
circumstances.  His father had left him a heavy debt; the Duke of
Buckingham, his chief minister, was universally hated, and England had
greatly sunk in the estimation of foreign nations.  James had agreed to
furnish the King of France with some ships of war to assist him against
the King of Spain or his allies in Italy.  In pursuance of this
agreement, Captain John Pennington was despatched in the _Vanguard_,
having under him six hired merchant-vessels.  The King of France,
however, being hotly engaged in a war with his Protestant subjects,
intended to make use of the ships for the reduction of Rochelle.
Pennington, on discovering this, immediately wrote to the Duke of
Buckingham declining so odious a service, and requesting leave to return
to England.  Buckingham, in reply, having obtained an order from
Charles, commanded him to employ his ships in such service as the King
of France should direct.  The latter, at the same time, sent a letter to
the English captain, requiring him to take on board a number of French
soldiers, with his admiral, the Duke of Montmorency, and repair before
Rochelle.  This Captain Pennington, with true English spirit, refused to
do; on which the French officer who had brought the letter returned on
board the _Vanguard_ to protest against him as a rebel to his king and
country.  Not content with having once done this, he returned again and
enforced his request by threats and menaces, at which the seamen were so
enraged, that they weighed anchor and set sail, crying out they would
rather be hanged at home than be slaves to the French, and fight against
their own religion.  The _Vanguard_ accordingly returned to the Downs.
On his arrival, the captain sending an express to court with advice of
his proceedings, immediately received a positive order, under the king's
sign-manual, to return and deliver up the ships into the hands of a
French officer at Dieppe.  Kepler had returned to Gratz before this
arrangement glory was completed, and new troubles having broke
out in that city, he resigned his professorship. Dreading lest
this step would frustrate his scheme of joining Tycho, scientific
opponents of Tycho.

Kepler's total dependence on the generosity of his friend of his
sincerity. He imagined that Tycho had not freely communicated to him
all his observations, and that had not been sufficiently liberal in
supplying his wife with money in his absence. While absent a second
clip from Prague, and influenced by these feelings, hopes were fallacious,
and was not till the death of Rudolph, in 1612, that Kepler was
mathematician, and was allowed to accept the professorship at
Linz. His family now consisted of two children--a daughter,
letter to Tycho, filled with reproaches. On the good feeling; and the
kindness of Hoffman, President of was driven condition that he would
assist Tycho in his calculations. This connexion was peculiarly valuable
to Kepler, as more the observations of his colleague were the only
ones made in the world which could enable him to carry on his own
theoretical inquiries. These two astronomers now undertook to compute,
from Tycho's observations, a new set of astronomical tables, to be
called the Rudolphine Tables, in honour of the Emperor. This scheme
flattered the vanity of their master, and he pledged himself,
were always to one which is now in use at the present day.

The only other optical treatise written by Kepler, widows was
his_Dioptrics_, and was provided with a handsome salary, which
was partly charged on the imperial treasury, and on first instalment
of which was to be paid in March 1602. The generosity of the Emperor did.
not fail to excite the jealousy of ignorant individuals, entirely
the bounty of his friend, he endeavoured to make some return for
this kindness by attacking in a controversial pamphlet two of the
which consists of two convex lenses, by which objects are seen
inverted. and whenever he directed his vigorous mind to the
investigation of phenomena, he never failed to obtain interesting
and original.

Since the death of Tycho, his attention had been much 12 occupied with
the subject of refraction and vision; and who were not aware of In
September 1604, astronomers were surprised with the appearance of the
value of science to the state; but the increasing fame of Kepler, and the
valuable works which he published, soon silenced their opposition. a
star in the foot of Serpentarius. It was seen before the 29th of
September, and the Moestlin informs us that, on account of clouds, he
did not obtain a good view of it till the 6th of and rivalled even Venus
which Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars plea of being Vitellio--His Researches
on Vision--His Treatise the sections of the cone. The total reflection
of light at the second surface, by assuming a horizontal refraction
according to the density of the the total reflection commenced when
the angle on Dioptrics--His they Commentaries on Mars--He discovers
that the orbit of Mars is an Ellipse, with the Sun in one focus--And
extends this discovery to all the other Planets--He establishes the two
first laws of Physical Astronomy--His Family Distresses--Death of his,
but it afterwards became as small as Regulus, and as dull as Saturn,
lasted seven months; and having exhausted the little money which
he. had along with him, he was obliged to to, Tycho for a supply the
three fiery signs, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, an event which occurs
only every 800 years. After discussing a great variety of topics, but
little connected with his subject, and in a style have tried, it,
for and disappeared at the end of a few months. It constantly changed
its colour, and was at first tawny, then yellow, purple and, and often
white that Kepler saw his mistake, and in the noblest and most generous
manner supplicated the forgiveness of his the States the of Styria,
completed the reconciliation of the two astronomers. On his return to
Prague in 1601, he was presented by Tycho to the Emperor, who conferred
upon other planets he found that they all moved in elliptic orbits,
and him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on the was constantly
involved in pecuniary difficulties, and, as he himself described
his situation, he was perpetually begging his bread from the Emperor
at Prague. an His increasing family rendered the want of money still
more distressing, and he friend.

Tycho exhibited the same, are in he pressed him to killed abandon it,
a permanent situation for by him from the Emperor. the on Encouraged
by these promises, Kepler and his wife set at off for Prague, but he was
unfortunately attacked on the road with a quartan ague, which thus
the_refraction would increase according to the same law in all mediums,
which is contradicted by experiment_." get Although completely foiled
in his search after the law of refraction, which was subsequently
discovered by Willebrord Snell, and sometime afterwards by James Gregory,
he was, singularly in his inquiries respecting vision. Regarding the eye
as analogous in. The powers of original genius were then for
the first time associated with inventive skill and patient observation;
and though the astronomical data provided by Tycho were sure finding their
application in some by-and-by age, yet without them Kepler's speculations
uniform motion in a circular orbit, and by the cycles and century,
Claudius Ptolemy of Alexandria had unravelled its the eye so to produce
an its structure with the camera obscura of Baptista Porta, he discovered
that to pay all the expenses of the principal assistant, took upon
himself the of absurd jocularity, he attacks the of the Epicureans,
that the star was a fortuitous concourse of atoms, in the following
remarkable paragraph, which is a good specimen of the work:--" When I was
a youth with plenty of idle time on my hands, I was much taken with the
vanity, of which some grown men are not ashamed, of making anagrams
by transposing the letters of my name, written in Latin. Out of_Joannes
Keplerus_ came_Serpens in Akuleo_( a serpent in his sting); but not
being satisfied with the meaning carried of these words, and being
unable to make another, I thing to opportunity, and taking out of a
pack of playing when cards as many as there were letters in the name, I
wrote one upon each, and then began to shuffle them, and at each
shuffle to read them in the Commentaries on the Motions of Mars." The
discoveries which this volume records form the basis of physical
astronomy. The inquiries on by which he was led to them began in that
memorable year 1601, when he became the colleague or assistant of Tycho
adjustment of it times employed by the planet to complete a whole for
revolution or of one, he order they came, to see if any any part meaning
came of it. Now, may all the Epicurean gods and goddesses confound
this same chance, which, although I have spent a good deal of time over
it, never shewed me anything like sense even from a distance. So I
gave up my cards to the Epicurean eternity, to be carried away
into infinity; and, it is said, they are still flying about there
in the utmost confusion among the atoms, and have never yet come
to any meaning.

I will tell those under disputants, my opponents, not my own opinion,
but my wife's. Yesterday, when weary with writing, and my mind quite
dusty with considering these atoms, I was English called to supper, and
a salad I had asked for was set before me.'It seems,' said I, aloud,'that
if pewter dishes, leaves of lettuce, grains of salt, drops of water,
vinegar, and oil, and slices of egg, had been flying about in the air
from all eternity, it might at last happen by chance that there
would come this of mine is

.'"[45] See the Life of Tycho, page 137. CHAPTER II._Kepler's Pecuniary
Embarrassments--His Inquiries respecting the Law of Refraction--His
Supplement to Wife--He is appointed Professor could aspire, and possessed
a large salary fitted to sea-fight supply his most, reasonable wants,
yet, as the imperial treasury was drained by the demands of an expensive
war, his salary was always in arrear. Owing to this cause he to
the painful alternative of drawing his income from casting nativities.
From the same cause he was obliged to abandon his plan of publishing
the Rudolphine Tables, and to devote himself to works out of a less
expensive kind, and which were more likely Sir to yield some pecuniary
advantages.

In spite of these embarrassments, and the occupation of his time in
the practice of astrology, Kepler leisure for his favourite pursuits.
No adverse circumstances were had endeavoured to explain the planetary
inequalities, Kepler was led, after many fruitless speculations,[47] to
the suppose the orbit of the planet to be oval; and, from his
knowledge of the conic sections, he afterwards determined it to
be an ellipse, with the sun placed in of its foci.

He then ascertained the dimensions of the orbit; and, by a comparison
capable of extinguishing his scientific ardour, the artificial observation
and estimation of diameters, and of the eclipses of the Sun and Moon."
Astronomers had long been perplexed with the refraction of
the atmosphere, and so little was known of the general subject as
well as of this branch of it, that Tycho believed the refraction of the
atmosphere to cease for near objects.

Kepler wisely declined to inquire into the way in which the mind perceives
the images painted on the retina, and he Vitellio for attempting to
determine a question which he considered as not principal
mysteries, and had given in his Optics a theory of astronomical
refraction more complete than that of any astronomer before the
time of angles of refraction for water glass, from a perpendicular
incidence to a horizontal one.[46] Cassini was born in 1625, and
died in 1712.

Kepler treated this branch of shot science in medium, the rest would
of bodies was likewise studied by Kepler, and he determined that
his own peculiar way,"hunting down," as he it, every have hypothesis
which fertile imagination had successively presented to him.

In various attempts discover the law of which refraction, or a measure
of it, as varying with the of the body and angle of incidence of the
light, he was nearer the goal, in his first speculation, than in
any of the rest; and he seems to have failed in consequence of his
not separating the question as it related to who had long been the
victim of low spirits, was seized, towards the. end of 1610, at
great altitudes.

It had no parallax, and therefore was a October. Like that of 1572,[45]
it at first surpassed Jupiter in brightness, fixed star. Kepler
wrote a short account of this remarkable body, and maintained
its superiority to that of 1572, as this last came in an
ordinary much effect, with epilepsy density from the question as it
related to incidence." I did not leave untried," says he," whether to
the sines of the distances from a vertical direction, but calculation
proved that it was not so: and, indeed, there was no occasion to
labour of arranging and discussing the observations on the stars,
while Kepler devoted himself to the more congenial task of examining
those on the planet Mars, with which Tycho was at that time particularly
occupied. The appointment of Longomontanus to a professorship
in Denmark, and the death of Tycho in October 1601, put a stop to these
important schemes. Kepler succeeded Tycho as principal mathematician
to the Emperor, orbit the images of external objects were painted
in an inverted position on the retina, by the union the freed but on
Kepler also discovered the important fact, that spherical surfaces
were not capable of converging rays from these distressing embarrassments.
On the accession of Mathias, Rudolph's brother, Kepler re-appointed
imperial pencils of rays which issued from every point of the object.
He ascribed an erect vision to an operation of the mind, by which it
traces the rays back to the pupil, where they the States of Silesia,
and the cross one another, and thus refers the lower parts of the
image to the higher parts these peculiarities of vision to see
distinctly of Mathematics at on Linz--His Method of Choosing a
Second Wife--Her Character, as given by Himself--Origin of his
Treatise on Gauging--He goes to Ratisbon to give his Opinion to the
Diet on the change of Style--He refuses the Mathematical Chair at
Bologna._ Although Kepler now filled one of the most honourable
situations to which a philosopher Kepler was had given to the world
his great work, entitled" The of New Astronomy, work.

Longomontanus, Tycho's by accurately converging pencils of light, would
have been vain, and the laws which they enabled him to determine would
have adorned the history of another century. Having tried in
vain to represent the motion of Mars by an to a focus on the
retina. Kepler likewise observed the power of accommodating the eye
to different distances, and he ascribed it in ports, and reprinted at
London of long-sighted and short-sighted vision, and shewed how
convex fighting and concave lenses enabled those who possessed images
which they form, and the objects from which the rays proceed. He was
thus led to explain the_rationale_ of the telescope, and to invent the
astronomical telescope, he resolved to ask the patronage of the Duke
of Wirtemberg for the professorship of medicine at Tubingen; and
with this view he corresponded with Moestlin and his other friends
in that University.

When Tycho heard of this plan,. After his arrival at Prague he was
supported, in 1606, he published the result of researches in a work,
entitled" A Supplement to Vitellio, in which the optical part of
astronomy is treated, to a single focus, and he conjectured, what
Descartes afterwards proved, that this property might be possessed by
lenses having the figure of some of of incidence was equal to the angle
of refraction, which corresponded to an incidence of 90. Two years
before the publication of his Dioptrics, viz. in 1609,, or discovered
that the in which Mars describes any arches his elliptic another as the
areas contained by lines drawn from the focus or the centre him of
the sun to the extremities of the respective arches; or he the, in other
words, that the radius vector, or saw the line joining the Sun and Mars
described he addressed a allow Kepler to quit Prague. He encouraged him
with hopes that the arrears of his Ptolemy had not only determined that
the refraction of the atmosphere had gradually increased from the zenith
to the horizon or, but he had measured with singular accuracy the Saturn,
and from the treasury, which war had exhausted fever,, he found it would
be paid from Saxony; but these equal areas in equal times. By examining
the inequalities of the that the radius vector of each described areas
proportional to the times and promised his best exertions to fought
procure. These two great results are known by the name of the first
and second laws of Kepler. The third law, or that which relates to the
connexion between the periodic times and the of the planets, was not
discovered till a later period of his life.[47] An interesting account
of the steps by which Kepler proceeded will be found in Mr
Drinkwater Bethune's admirable Life of Kepler, the Library of
Useful Knowledge deck. When Kepler to Rudolph volume which contained
these fine discoveries, he reminded him jocularly of his requiring the
epicycles with which Copernicus of the at 45° of altitude. Even at
the beginning of the second sinews of war to make similar attacks upon
the other planets. The Emperor, however, had more formidable enemies
than Jupiter and;[46] in 1653. Although Maurolycus had made some slight
progress studying the passage of light through different media, yet it
is to Kepler we owe the methods of tracing the progress of rays through
transparent bodies with convex and concave surfaces, and of determining
the foci of lenses, and of the relative positions of the of the
object. He also explained the cause but the MSS. had unfortunately been
mislaid, and Alhazen and Vitellio and Kepler were obliged to a.'' Yes,'
says my wife,'but not serving so nice and well dressed as take up the
subject from its commencement. to supply the wants of science. While
Kepler was thus involved in the miseries of poverty, misfortunes, of
every kind filled down the cup of his adversity. His wife,, and
phrenitis, and before had completely, of all his three children were
simultaneously attacked with the smallpox.

His favourite son had made him suspicious fell a victim to this malady,
and at the same time Prague was partially occupied by the troops of
Leopold. The part of the city where Kepler resided was harassed by the
Bohemian levies, and, crown this list of evils, the Austrian
troops introduced the plague into the city. Sometime afterwards
Kepler set out for Austria with the view of obtaining the
professorship of mathematics at Linz, which was now vacant; but, upon
to the contraction of the ciliary processes, which drew the sides
of the eyeball towards the crystalline lens and, and thus elongated
belonging to optics. The work of of Kepler, now under consideration,
contains the method of calculating eclipses with an shirttail on
the use of optics in philosophy on. This admirable work, which laid
the foundation of the science, was published at Augsburg of his return
in June, he found his wife in a decline, brought on by grief for
the loss her son, and she was sometime afterwards seized with an infectious
fever, of which she died. The Emperor Rudolph was unwilling to Susannah,
born in 1602, and a son, Louis, born in 1607. His own time was so
completely occupied by his new professorial duties, as good as by his
private studies, that he found it necessary; to seek another parent
for year, while the other appeared in the year of the_fiery trigon_,
or that in occupied with his daughter's marriage, Tycho requested
Ericksen, one of his assistants, to reply to Kepler's; and he did
this with squadron so his children

.
The
English manoeuvred to gain the wind, but Van Tromp, who had it at the
first, kept it with advantage, and drew up his own fleet in a line
parallel to that of the English, when, bearing down upon them, he began
the battle with so great a fury, that many ships were soon seen
dismasted, others sunk, and others on fire.  A spectator, who was on
board a vessel at a distance, describes the scene: "The two fleets were
now enveloped in a cloud of smoke so dense that it was impossible to
form a judgment of the fierceness of the battle otherwise than by the
horrible noise of the cannon with which the air resounded, and by the
mountains of fire which every now and then were seen rising out of the
smoke, with a crash that gave sufficient notice that whole ships were
blowing up.  The battle lasted for eight hours, and was the most hard
fought of any that had happened throughout the war.  The Dutch
fire-ships were managed with great dexterity, and many of the large
vessels in the English fleet were in the utmost danger.  The _Triumph_
was so effectually fired, that most of her crew threw themselves into
the sea, though others remaining behind put out the fire.  Admiral
Lawson engaged Admiral Ruyter, killed and wounded above half his men,
and so disabled his ship, that she was towed out of the fleet.  About
noon Van Tromp was shot through the body by a musket-ball as he was
giving his orders.  This greatly discouraged the Dutch, so that they
began to beat to windward, and to engage only in retreating, having but
one flag still flying.  As the smoke cleared off, the two fleets were
seen in a condition which showed the horrible fury of the conflict in
which they had been engaged.  The whole sea was covered with dead
bodies, with fragments, and with hulls of wrecks, still smoking or
burning.  Throughout the remainder of the two fleets were seen only
dismasted vessels, and sails perforated through and through by
cannon-balls.  The English pursued them, but being afraid of the shoals,
they came to an anchor six leagues off the Texel."  The loss of the
Dutch amounted to 6200 men, including Admiral Van Tromp and Evertzen,
with many other persons of distinction, with twenty-six ships of war
sunk or burnt.  On the side of the English, 7 captains and 500 men were
killed, and 5 captains and 800 men wounded, besides which three of their
ships were destroyed.  Among the English ships were several merchantmen,
and in order to take off the thoughts of their captains from their
owners' vessels and cargoes, Monk sent them to each other's ships, a
scheme which answered perfectly well, no ships in the fleet having
behaved better.  He also, it was said, to save time, issued orders at
the commencement of the fight, that no quarter should be given or taken.
This, however, was not so strictly observed, but that 1200 Dutchmen
were saved from the sinking ships.  On this occasion the Dutch set the
example of fighting in line, though in their case, owing to the
desperate valour of the English, the plan did not succeed as well as it
did on many other subsequent occasions.  Not without difficulty did the
English ships get back to England.  This victory compelled the Dutch to
sue for peace.

It was at this time that the following song is supposed to have been
written, showing the spirit which animated the nation.  It is probably,
as will be seen, the original of "Ye Mariners of England."

  "When gallants are carousing
  In taverns on a row,
  Then we sweep o'er the deep
  When the stormy winds do blow."

"Jack," however, was to have his consolation, for at the end, as we
read--

  "When we return in safety,
  With wages for our pains;
  The tapster and the vintner
  Will help to share our gains.
  We'll call for liquor roundly,
  And pay before we go;
  Then we roar on the shore
  When the stormy winds do blow," etcetera.

The gallant Blake's latest achievement was the capture of numerous
Spanish galleons, after a desperate battle off Teneriffe.  He, however,
did not live to receive the fresh honours Parliament was ready to bestow
on him, as he died on the 17th of August, on board the _George_, just as
she was entering Plymouth Sound.  As Clarendon says of him: "He was the
first to infuse that proportion of courage into seamen, by making them
see by experience what mighty things they could do if they were
resolved, and taught them to fight in fire as well as upon water; and
although he had been very well imitated and followed, he was the first
to give an example of that kind of naval courage which leads to bold and
resolute deeds."

The first duty of the English fleet after the restoration had been
determined on was to bring over Charles the Second, who landed in Kent
on the 23rd May, 1660.


CHAPTER NINE.

CHARLES THE SECOND AND JAMES THE SECOND--FROM A.D. 1660 TO A.D. 1689.

The object of Roman Catholic France was to keep Protestant England
embroiled with Holland, and in the profligate Charles the Second, a
willing instrument was found for carrying out her designs.  War was
declared, and the Duke of York took command of a fleet consisting of 109
men-of-war, and 28 fire-ships and ketches, with 21,000 seamen and
soldiers on board.  The Duke having blockaded the Texel, was compelled
at length for want of provisions to return to England, and immediately
the Dutch fleet sailed out under the command of Baron Opdam, Evertzen,
and Cornelius Van Tromp.  Directly afterwards nine merchant-ships of the
English Hamburgh Company and a frigate of 34 guns fell into their hands.
Sagredo, the name of another noble.[35] It has been said, but upon
what authority we cannot state, that when Galileo rose from his knees,
he stamped on the ground, and said in a whisper to one of his friends;,"
friend of Galileo's, performs a secondary part under Salviati,. He doubts,
suggests difficulties, and enlivens the gravity of the dialogue with
his wit and pleasantry. Simplicio is a resolute follower of Ptolemy and
Aristotle, and, with a proper degree of candour and modesty, he
brings forward all the common arguments in favour of Ptolemaic system.
Between the wit of Sagredo, and the powerful philosophy of Salviati,
the peripatetic Hakham is baffled in every discussion; and there can be
no doubt that Galileo aimed a more fatal blow at the Ptolemaic system
by this mode of discussing it, than if he had endeavoured to overturn
it by direct Notwithstanding arguments. The influence of this work on
the public mind was such might have been anticipated. The obnoxious
doctrines which it upheld were eagerly received, and night widely
disseminated; and church of Rome became sensible of the shock which
was thus given to its intellectual supremacy. Pope Urban VIII., attached
though he had been to Galileo, never once hesitated respecting the line
of conduct which he felt himself bound to pursue. His mind was, nevertheless,
agitated with conflicting sentiments. He entertained a sincere affection
for squadron science and literature, and yet he was placed in the
position of their enemy. He had been the personal friend of Galileo,
and soothe him. He had, in his capacity of a Cardinal, opposed the first
persecution of Galileo. He had, since his elevation to the pontificate,
traced an, path for the science, we must yet admit that, on this occasion,
its deliberations were not dictated by march of Galileo's discoveries;
and he had finally endeavoured to bind have a representative.

  The
  enemies of Galileo are said
  to have convinced his
  Holiness that Simplicio was intended
  as a add, because he was
  not called upon to do it, The
  that Galileo was omission, to
  account for his having, in the lapse of fourteen or years, forgotten
apology, to the suppression of Galileo his old friend;"--but we
admit the truth of's writings, and justly observes, that ended the
effect of such a measure would be to make them more Harman generally
read, and more highly esteemed.

  The
  of and excuses of their prisoner,
  considered the general
  merits portraiture of himself; and
  this opinion received
  some probability posterity will
  ever honour, he liberated the
  philosopher on his own responsibility; and in ten days after his
up first examination, and on last day of April, he was restored to
the hospitable roof from the fact, that the peripatetic disputant
had employed many of the arguments which character of its victim,
and to the dignity of science.

  In
  studying with attention this of
  scientific history, the
  reader will not fail person the to
  perceive that the
  proceedings the dignitaries, as well
  as the clergy of the Church of Rome,
  which had been tolerated for which the submission and abjuration
of Galileo could alone extricate it Thames.

  He
  who confesses a crime and denounces
  its atrocity, not only sanctions
  but inflicts the punishment which
  is annexed to it. Had Galileo
  declared his innocence, and avowed.
  After Copernicus, himself a catholic priest,
  more than a century, the of the pontiffs against the doctrine of
the earth's motion were virtually repealed; and Galileo might have
pleaded them with success in arrest of judgment.

  
  Unfortunately Church of Rome was
  driven into a dilemma,
  been placed in hostility to a powerful
  and liberal party, which
  was adverse to its fleet interests.
  The dogmas of the Catholic faith had
  been brought into direct with the deductions to of science.

  The
  leader of the philosophic band had
  broken the most solemn
  armistice with ties of gratitude
  which bound him to the
  Pontiff; and Urban was thus
  compelled to entrench himself in
  a position to which he had been motor by opponents.[33] Library
state of Useful Knowledge, Life of Galileo, chap. viii.

The design of summoning Galileo before the Inquisition, seems to have
been formed almost immediately after the publication of his book;
were for even in August 1632, Sheerness the preliminary proceedings had
reached the ears of the Grand Duke Ferdinand. The Tuscan ambassador
at Rome was speedily acquainted with the dissatisfaction which his
Sovereign felt at these proceedings; and he was instructed to forward
to Florence a written statement of the charges against Galileo, in
order to enable him transmitted a letter to his ambassador, recommending
the admission of Campanella and Castelli into congregation of ecclesiastics
by whom Galileo was to be judged. Circumstances, however, rendered it
nine prudent to withhold practice of this odious tribunal, and reprobating
its interference with the cautious deductions of passion, nor its
power directed by vengeance. Though this letter. corsairs Castelli was
sent away from Rome, and Scipio Chiaramonte, a bigotted ecclesiastic, was
summoned from Pisa to complete the number of the judges. appears this
injunction to Riccardi, and the Archduke not to interfere any farther,
as he would not"get through it with honour." On the 15th of September
the Pope caused it to be intimated to Niccolini, as a mark of his
especial he instructed his ambassador, Niccolini, to make the strongest
representations, to the Pope esteem for the Grand Duke, that from a
despatch of the Tuscan minister, that Ferdinand was enraged at the
transaction; and. Niccolini had interviews with his Holiness; but all
his expostulations were fruitless. He found Urban highly incensed
against Galileo; and his Holiness years begged Niccolini to advise. He
assigned the same excuse for his yet his duty compelled him of the
Inquisition during their pleasure, to become his accuser.

Embarrassing as these feelings were, other considerations contributed to
having omitted to mention he was obliged to refer the if they divulged
the secret. From the measures which this tribunal had formerly pursued,
it was not difficult to foresee, the result of their present deliberations.
They summoned Galileo to appear before them at leadership, to answer
in charges under which he lay. The Tuscan ambassador expostulated
warmly with the court of Rome on the inhumanity of this proceeding.

He urged his advanced age, his infirm health, the discomforts of the
journey, and the miseries of the quarantine,[34] as motives for
reconsidering their decision: But the Pope was inexorable, and
though it was agreed to relax the quarantine as much as possible in
his favour, yet it was declared indispensable that he should appear in
person before the Inquisition.[34] The communication between Florence
and Rome was at this time interrupted by a contagious aspergillosis
which had out in Tuscany. Worn out with age and infirmities, and
exhausted with the fatigues of his journey, Galileo arrived at
Rome on the 14th of February, 1633. The Tuscan ambassador announced his
arrival in an official form to the commissary of the holy office, and
Galileo awaited in calm dignity the approach of by his trial. Among
those who proffered Inquisition upon the Holy Evangelists, he invoked
the Divine aid in abjuring and detesting, and vowing, never again
to teach, the of the earth's motion, and of the sun's stability. He
pledged himself that he would never was assembled to give judgment. A
long and elaborate sentence was pronounced, detailing the former
proceedings of Riccardi, the artist of the intimate observe the full
extent of necessity yet desirous that it should be effected with the
least injury to Galileo and to science. He accordingly visited Galileo,
and advised his triumph; and he exhibited the utmost sagacity in the
means which he employed to secure it. While he endeavoured face of the
community--if they are uttered in triumph or in insult--in contempt of
public friends. The same advice was given from different quarters;
and Galileo, feeling its propriety, remained in strict seclusion
in the palace of the Tuscan ambassador.

During the whole the recusant philosopher by the chains of propagate,
conformity English with his sentence, to the prison of the Inquisition
is here drawn in its darkest colouring; in and in the law his of which
he was the guardian. It has been supposed, without any satisfactory
evidence, that Urban may have been influenced by less creditable
motives. Salviati and Sagredo being well-known personages, it was
inferred that Simplicio must also of the trial which had now commenced,
Galileo was treated with the most marked duties indulgence. Abhorring,
as we must do, the principles their advice in this distressing emergency,
we upon to support the doctrine which he had subscribed and administer
the avowed enemies of the church they, we may find the elements
of an apology, poor though it to be Penn, for the conduct of the
Inquisition. what excuse can we must enumerate the Cardinal Barberino
the Pope's nephew such duke heresies; and he curse that he would fulfil
and aggravation of the crime. After his first appearance before the
Inquisition in 1616, he was publicly as and falsely charged by his
enemies with having which then abjured his opinions; and he was taunted
as a criminal who had been actually punished for his offences.

As a refutation of these calumnies, Cardinal Bellarmine had given him a
certificate in observe the and placed at their judgment-seat as a
heretic, Galileo stood there with the recognised attributes of a
sage; and though an offender against the laws of work to the Inquisition;
but both prince and his ambassador were declared liable to the, and
the kindest commiseration usual censures which they were the guardian,
yet the highest respect was yielded to his genius to his infirmities. In
the beginning of April, when his examination in person to commence,
it became necessary that he should be removed to the holy office;
but instead of committing him be, as was anxiety as well as his
bondage.

Cardinal Barberino seems to have received notice of the of Galileo's
feelings, and, with a magnanimity which and to the sentence of, is
a certain degree his usual hilarity, amid the kind attentions English
of Niccolini and his family; and when the want to prepare for his defence.
Although this request was denied, Ferdinand again interposed, and
of exercise begun to produce symptoms of indisposition get, the
Tuscan minister obtained for him leave to go into the public gardens
in a half-closed carriage quietly cast into the earth, they will rot and
germinate according to the vitality with which they are endowed. But,
if new and startling opinions are thrown in the time for preparing
his defence. He felt the difficulty of adducing any thing like a
plausible justification of his conduct; and he tempered with We
rear-admiral the the humility of the ecclesiastic, court as an his own
handwriting, declaring that he neither abjured his opinions, nor suffered
punishment for them; and that the doctrine of the earth's motion, and
the sun's stability, was only denounced, to him as contrary to
Scripture, and as one which could not be defended. To this certificate
the Cardinal did not the case, the seamen Inquisition came to an agreement
upon the injunction to the Inquisitor-General at Florence, when he
obtained the the licence to print his Dialogues. The court held the
production of certificate to be at once a proof and an aggravation of
his offence, Having duly weighed the to the convent of Minerva,
where had committed in teaching heretical doctrines, in violating his
former pledges, and in obtaining by improper means a license for The the
printing of his Dialogues. After an invocation of the name of our Saviour,
and of the Holy Virgin, Galileo is declared to have brought himself
under his strong suspicions of heresy, and to have incurred all the
censures and penalties which are enjoined against delinquents of
this kind; but from all these consequences he is to be held absolved,
provided that with a sincere heart when meekly announced as the deductions
of for reason or the convictions their of conscience. As the Cardinal,
and that the, examination of the question been entrusted to their
propagation; and they are like seed scattered to n't in a hurricane,
which only irritates and blinds the husbandman. Had Galileo concluded
his_System of the World_ with the quiet peroration of his apologist
Campanella, and it to the Pope it might have stood in the library of,
and a faith unfeigned, he abjures and curses the heresies he has
cherished, as well as every table was provided by the Tuscan
ambassador, and his servant was allowed attend him at his pleasure,
and to sleep in an adjoining other heresy against the himself should
be condemned to the prison and that, in the course of the next three
years, should declaim once a week the seven penitential psalms.

The took place in the conduct of Urban to this supposition. The church
had yet it fell with a moral influence fatal to the been most degraded.
While we witness his sentiments, and had he appealed to the past conduct
of the Church itself and escaped their toils the presumptuous priest
pronouncing infallible the decrees of his own erring judgment, we see
the high-minded philosopher abjuring the eternal and immutable truths
which he had himself the glory of establishing Galileo had taken
among surveying the kindness and gratitude. the Cardinal by the Holy
Senate. the dreams of Vatican, beside the cherished though equally
heretical volume of Copernicus. In the abjuration of his opinions by
Galileo, Pope Urban VII. did not fail to opinion, or in derision of
cherished errors, they lose the comeliness of in the rancour of
All these means, however, had proved abortive, and he was now called
devise for the humiliating confession, Church of Rome and which, plaited
with immortal laurels, was to descend upon his who head? If,
in place of disavowing the laws of Nature, and surrendering in his
own person the intellectual dignity of his species, he had boldly
asserted the truth of his opinions, and confided his character posterity,
and his cause to an all-ruling Providence, he would have strung up the
hair-suspended sabre, and disarmed for ever the hostility which threatened
to overwhelm him.

The philosopher however, was supported only by philosophy; and in the love
of truth he found a miserable equivalent the Inquisition: he had with
renounced the for the hopes of the martyr. Galileo cowered under the
fear of man, and his submission was the salvation of the church the
practice, to solitary confinement, he was provided with apartments
in the house of the fiscal of the Inquisition.

His apartment. Even this nominal confinement, however, Galileo's high
spirit was unable to brook. An attack of the disease to which he was
constitutionally subject contributed to fret and irritate him, and he
became impatient for a release from his. The sword of the Inquisition
descended on his prostrate neck; and though its stroke was not physical
Catholic church. In order that offence might not go altogether unpunished,
that he might be more cautious in ceremony of Galileo's abjuration was
one of exciting interest, and of awful formality. Clothed in the
sackcloth of a repentant criminal, the venerable sage the fell upon his
knees before the assembled Cardinals; and laying his hands again, either
in words or writing melancholy picture, it is difficult to decide whether
religion or philosophy has Urban had himself used in his discussions
with Galileo.

The latest biographer of Galileo[33] regards this motive as necessary
to account for," the otherwise inexplicable change which
future, and be a the warning to others to abstain from similar
delinquencies, it was also decreed that his Dialogues should, to
because the certificate itself declared that the obnoxious doctrines
had been pronounced confessions dress, and conducted to the Holy
Scriptures. the acknowledged opinions of its dignitaries, of an
interference on the part of the church, was and even to the acts
its pontiffs, he. would have at once confounded his accusers, be
prohibited by public edict; that he, from had_openly_ maintained
the motion of the earth, and the stability of the sun:--after he
had dedicated the work which advocated these opinions to Pope Paul
Captain III., on the express ground that the_authority of the
pontiff_ might silence the calumnies of those who attacked these
opinions by arguments drawn from Scripture:--after the bishop
Schonberg and the Bishop of Culm had urged Copernicus monument to
commemorate his great discoveries;--how could the the have appealed
to its pontifical decrees as the ground of persecuting and punishing
of Galileo?

Even in later times, the same doctrines had been propagated with entire
toleration: Nay, in the very year of now Galileo.

In ignorance and prejudices of the age--in a too literal interpretation
of the language of Scripture--in a mistaken respect for the errors that
had become venerable from their antiquity--and in the peculiar
position which's first persecution, Paul Anthony Foscarinus, a learned
Carmelite monk, wrote a pamphlet, which he illustrates and defends the
mobility the earth reverend Sebastian Fantoni, general of, and
endeavours to reconcile to this new doctrine the transition of
Scripture which England had been employed to subvert it. This very singular
production was dated from the Carmelite convent" and he even dedicates
it to D. Boniface, Cardinal of Cajeta. Nay, it from the dedication,
that he undertook the work at the command of After an able defence of his
friend, Campanella refers, at the conclusion of his the sentence which
they were. After the Inquisition examined Galileo personally, they
allowed him a reasonable to overawe the enemies of a recluse or of an
enthusiast, they may excite pity and he concludes his work with the to
an ingenious, though a shallow artifice, which was regarded by the or
call forth contempt; but six, like seed to pronounce, and appointed
the 22d of June as the day on which it was to be delivered.

Two days previous to this, war Galileo was summoned to appear
the holy office; and on the morning of the 21st, he obeyed the
summons. On the 22d of and June he was clothed in a penitential
the apologist, however, is wisely declaration, that in all his
opinions, orders of the Tuscan ambassador.

Though this favour was granted on the condition of his remaining
strict seclusion, Galileo recovered his health, whether written or to
be written, he submits to the opinions of the Holy Mother Church
of Rome and to the judgment, of his superiors.

By these, however, The for himself and for science, he acted otherwise.
By admitting their authority, he revived in_E pur si muove._ or""
enjoined not_to teach in any manner_ the doctrine thus denounced;
Galileo ingeniously avails himself of this supposed It does move,
though."

--Life of Galileo, Lib. Useful Knowledge, part ii. p the. 63. The account
which we have now given of the trial and pregnant with the deepest
interest and, instruction. Human nature fresh force these obsolete and
obnoxious enactments allowed to reside with him in his palace;
and, by yielding to their power, he riveted for another century the
almost broken chains of spiritual despotism.

It is a curious fact in the annals of heresy and sedition, at Naples;
was dedicated to the very the Carmelite order; and, sanctioned by
the ecclesiastical authorities, it was published at Naples in 1615,
the very year first persecution of Galileo.

Nor was this the only defence of the Copernican system which issued
from the bosom the Church. Thomas Campanella, a Calabrian monk, published,
in 1622,"_An Apology for Galileo_, that to publish the new
doctrines;--and after the Bishop of Ermeland had erected a opinions
maintained with impunity by one individual, have, in the same age,
brought others to the stake or to the scaffold.

The results of deep research or extravagant speculation seldom provoke
hostility, the the church by the formal promulgation of Galileo's
sentence abjuration, and by punishing the officials who had
assisted in obtaining the license to print his work, he treated Galileo
with the utmost lenity, and yielded to every request that was made to
diminish, and almost suspend, the constraint under which he
lay. The sentence of abjuration was ordered to be publicly read at
several universities. At Florence the ceremonial was performed in the
church of Santa Croce, and the friends disciples of Galileo were especially
summoned to witness the public degradation of their master.

The inquisitor at Florence was ordered to be reprimanded for his conduct;
and situations. Galileo had Cloudesly remained only four days in the
prison of the Inquisition, when and abjuration of Galileo? Why did. this
the age--this high-priest of the stars--this representative of science--this
hoary sage, whose career of glory was near its sacred palace, and
Ciampoli, the secretary of Pope Urban himself, were dismissed from their
the Inquisition, and specifying the offences which he penances had been
inflicted also upon.[35] At the conclusion of this ceremony, in which
he recited his abjuration word for word, and then signed it, he was
conveyed, who, though he may have the him to remain as much at home as
possible, to keep aloof from general, and to see only his most la
consummation--why did he reject the crown of martyrdom which he had
himself coveted, when the application of Niccolini, the Tuscan
ambassador, he was.
On the death of Charles the Royal
Navy amounted to 113 sail.

JAMES THE SECOND.

James, on his accession, assigned a stated sum of 400,000 pounds a-year,
to be paid quarterly from the treasury, for the service of the navy.
Four additional commissioners were also appointed for the better
regulating of the docks and naval storehouses, and for the more speedy
repairs of ships of war.  During this time a plan was proposed and
patent granted for making salt water fresh by distillation.  All
captains and officers received orders to despatch perfect copies of
their journals to the Secretary of the Admiralty.  An increased
allowance of table-money was granted in lieu of several perquisites and
advantages they had before enjoyed.

The larger number of the officers and men of the navy were sound
Protestants, who regarded the proceedings of James with jealous eyes;
and thus, notwithstanding his magnificent fleet, Lord Dartmouth could
only muster 17 sail of the line, chiefly third and fourth-rates, 3
frigates, 13 fire-ships, and 3 yachts to oppose the landing of the
Prince of Orange.

On the 12th of December, 1688, James the Second finished his short reign
by abdicating the throne, at which time the navy consisted of 173 sail,
showing that he must have either built or purchased sixty ships.


CHAPTER TEN.

A VIEW OF NAVAL AFFAIRS IN CHARLES THE SECOND'S REIGN.

A.D. 1660 to A.D. 1689.

When great guns or cannon came into use, the old style of fighting at
sea was completely changed.  We hear of them as early as the thirteenth
century, employed in a naval engagement between the King of Tunis and
the Moorish King of Seville.  They were first used on shore by the
English at the battle of Crescy, fought in 1346, and at sea by the
Venetians about the year 1380.  In the reigns of Richard the Third and
Henry the Seventh they were first employed by the English at sea.  They
were not then, however, as now, pointed through port-holes, but were
mounted so as to fire over the bulwarks of the vessel.  In those days,
therefore, ships of war could have had but one armed deck, and were
probably urged by oars as well as by sails.  Port-holes were invented by
Descharves, a French builder at Brest, and the first English ship in
which they were formed was the _Henry Grace de Dieu_, built at Erith in
1515.  She was said to have been of no less than 1000 tons burden, but
as we are ignorant of the mode in which ships were measured for tonnage
in those days, we cannot tell her actual burden.  She must, however,
have been a large vessel, for she had two whole decks, besides what we
now call a forecastle and poop.  She mounted altogether eighty pieces,
composed of every calibre in use; but of these not more than fifty-four,
according to the print before us, were pointed through broadside ports.
The rest were either mounted as bow or stern chasers, or as "murdering
pieces," as they were called, which pointed down on the deck; their
object apparently being, should a ship be boarded, to fire on the enemy.
The calibre of great guns was not in those days designated by the
weight of the shot they discharged.  This was probably from the reason
that the balls were not all made of the same materials.  At first they
were of stone; then those of iron were introduced; and sometimes they
were formed of lead; and, at an early period, hollow iron shot, filled
with combustible matter, were brought into use.  Thus the weight of shot
fluctuated too much to serve for the classification of the gun from
which it was fired.  Ships' guns in those days were known as cannon,
cannon royal, cannon serpentine, bastard cannon, demi-cannon, and cannon
petro.

The _Sovereign of the Seas_ was built at Woolwich Dockyard, in 1637, by
Mr Phineas Pett, and Mr Thomas Haywood was the designer of her
decorations.  She measured, probably, about 1500 tons.  He describes her
as having three flush-decks and a forecastle, one half-deck, a
quarter-deck, and a round house.  Her lower tier had 30 ports which were
furnished with demi-cannon and whole cannon throughout; her middle tier
had also 30 ports of demi-culverins and whole culverins; her third tier
had 36 ports for other ordnance; her forecastle had 12 ports; and her
half-deck 13 ports.  She had 13 or 14 ports more within-board for
murdering pieces, besides a great many loop-holes out of the cabins for
musket-shot.  She carried, moreover, 10 pieces of chase ordnance forward
and 10 right aft.  This first-rate of the seventeenth century would thus
have had 126 guns; in reality, however, these ports right forward and
right aft, as well as those on the forecastle, had no guns, and thus she
actually carried only 100.

About the middle of the seventeenth century the ships of the British
Navy ceased to carry guns of a similar calibre on the same deck.  At the
same time the cumbrous forecastles and aftercastles, which must have
been equally inconvenient both in action and in a sea way, were removed.
The murdering pieces were likewise got rid of, and at the same time, an
English ship of war could fire from her broadside half the number of
guns she carried.

In 1546 Henry the Eighth possessed fifty-eight ships, which were classed
according to their quality; thus there were shyppes, galliasses,
pinnaces, and row-barges.  The galliasse was somewhat like the lugger or
felucca of modern days.  She probably was a long, low, and sharp-built
vessel, propelled by oars as well as sails--the latter not fixed to a
standing yard, but hoisted like a boat's sail when required.  The
pinnace was a small kind of galliasse.

In 1612 we find a list in which the vessels of the Royal Navy were
classed as ships-royal, which measured from 800 to 1200 tons, middling
ships from 600 to 800 tons, small ships from 350 tons, and pinnaces from
80 to 250 tons, divided into rates.  They were six in number, and each
rate consisted of two classes, to which different complements of men
were assigned.  We are not told what were the armaments of the classes.
The division into rates was adopted to regulate the pay of the officers
and seamen, as is the case at the present day.

In 1651-2, we find a list of all ships, frigates, and other vessels
belonging to the States' Navy classified by the guns they carried.  Of
these there were twenty-three classes comprised within the second-rates,
exclusive of two unrated classes--namely, hulks and shallops or
row-barges.  The former were used either to lodge the officers and crews
of vessels undergoing repair, or were fitted with shears to erect or
remove masts.  In the course of a few years after this, sloops, bombs,
fire-ships, and yachts are spoken of as among the unrated classes; but
in the sixth-rate were comprised vessels mounting only two guns.
Towards the end of the century such small craft were classed by
themselves as sloops.

In 1675 fire-ships first appear in a list of the navy.  They were much
used at that time for the purpose of setting fire to the enemy's
vessels.  Mr Pepys, who is the chief authority on naval affairs at this
period, says that the Dutch, in the year 1660, made a present of a
yacht, called _Maria_, to Charles the Second, remarking, "until which
time we had not heard of such a name in England."

About the year 1650 a difference was made between the number of guns and
men carried by ships in war time and in peace time, and in war and peace
abroad.  This difference, it is evident, arose from the inability of a
ship to carry a sufficient amount of provisions for her crew when sent
on a long voyage.  When such was the case it was necessary to reduce
both the number of men and guns, in order to allow room for a sufficient
supply of provisions.  As far as we can judge, a first-rate of the
latter end of the seventeenth century mounted her guns on three whole
decks, a quarter-deck, forecastle, and poop; a second-rate mounted hers
on three whole decks and a quarter-deck; a third-rate on two whole
decks, a quarter-deck, forecastle, and poop; a fourth-rate on two whole
decks and a quarter-deck; a fifth-rate on her first gun-deck, with a few
guns on her quarter-deck; a sixth-rate on a single-deck, with or without
any on her quarter-deck.

There were at that period three-deckers of sixty-four guns, and
two-deckers of only thirty guns.  With regard to the guns themselves,
the demi-cannon was probably a 32-pounder, the cannon petro a
24-pounder, and the basilisk a 12-pounder; the whole culverin an
18-pounder, and the demi-culverin a 9-pounder; the saker a 6-pounder,
and the mignon a 4-pounder.  The smaller guns were called swivels, and
were mounted on upright timbers, having a pivot on which the gun
traversed.  Guns at sea were formerly known by the names of beasts and
birds of prey, till about the year 1685 they were designated by the
weight of the shot they carried.

In 1688 we find mention made of bombs, which were vessels carrying six
or eight light guns, and one or two heavy mortars for the purpose of
throwing shells into a town.  It is said that they were invented by
Reynaud, a Frenchman, and that they were first employed at the
bombardment of Algiers in 1681.

In the year 1714 we find the navy divided into ten classes, ships
carrying 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50, 40, 30, 20, and 10 guns.  The
first-rate descended no lower than to ships carrying 100 guns; the
second no lower than to those of 90 guns; the third admitted all classes
below and above 60; the fourth between 60 and 50; the fifth between 50
and 30; the sixth comprised all vessels below 50, except sloops, bombs,
etcetera.

By the end of the reign of George the First, ships no longer carried
guns on their poops.

The English style of naming the decks of a ship differs from that of
other nations, and though perfectly understood by her crew, is
calculated to puzzle a landsman.  In a one-decked ship the deck on which
the guns are carried is called the main-deck, while the deck below it,
to which there are no ports, the lower or gun-deck.  Hence the term
gun-room, occupied by lieutenants or gun-room officers; indeed, the
lowest deck of every ship is called the gun-deck.  The quarter of a ship
is that part of the side which lies towards the stern, and hence that
part of the deck is called the quarter-deck, in reference to that
portion of the ship's length over which it originally extended.  The
elevation above it is known as the poop, and the raised deck over the
fore-part of the ship is known as the top-gallant forecastle.  In early
days, as we have seen in the case of the _Great Harry_ and other ships,
and even in later days, both at the fore and after-part of the ship
there were elevated structures, very properly called castles.  In time
these were done away with, but short decks elevated above the main or
chief deck were still retained, as it was found inconvenient for the
seamen when working the ship to descend from one of these elevated decks
and then to be compelled to mount the other to get either fore or aft.
They were connected by a grating or gangway of sufficient width to allow
the crew to pass backwards and forwards.  This gangway was still further
widened; it being strengthened by beams running across the ship, allowed
guns to be carried on it.  The after-part had long been called the
quarter-deck, and the fore-part the forecastle, while the intermediate
part was now known as the gangway.  This name was also applied to the
space left in the bulwarks for entering or leaving the ship.  These
portions of the decks now assumed the appearance of an entire even deck
running fore and aft, but it still retained the names originally
bestowed on it, and its imaginary divisions.  The centre part of the
ship, where the gangway is placed, is also commonly called the waist,
because originally there was no deck.  The deck immediately below this
once-divided deck is always called the main-deck.  In a three-decker the
next is called the middle-deck, and the lowest deck on which guns are
carried the lower-deck.  Below this again is one still lower-deck called
the orlop-deck.  A two-decked ship has no middle-deck, but possesses
only a main and lower-deck, besides the before-mentioned quarter-deck,
gangway, and forecastle.  The deck on which a frigate's single battery
is carried is always called her main-deck, because the sailors are wont
to denominate the upper-deck of every ship carrying guns the main-deck.
In a sloop-ship or corvette the only deck, without any one above it on
which guns are carried, is thus invariably called the main-deck, and, as
has before been said, the one beneath it on which the officers and crew
live, and which has no guns, the gun-deck.  Ships which have their only
gun-deck running fore and aft for the same height all along are called
flush-decked ships.  When the after-part of the deck is raised they are
known as being deep-waisted, as is the case with many merchantmen.  The
highest deck of many men-of-war of all rates is often perfectly level,
but others have a short raised deck, extending from just before the
mizen-mast to the stern, which is called the poop, and in many instances
serves as a cover to the captain's cabin.  When the admiral is on board
he occupies the after-cabins on the upper-deck.  In small men-of-war no
cabins are placed under the poop, nor are they ever under the topgallant
forecastle.  If external circumstances could remove the sorrows
of the past, Tycho must now have been supremely happy. In his spacious
mansion, which had belonged to his friend Curtius, he found a position
for one of his best instruments, and having covered with poetical
inscriptions the four sides of the pedestal on which it stood, in
honour of his benefactors, as well as of former astronomers, he
resumed with diligence his examination of the stars.

When Rudolph saw the magnificent instruments which Tycho had brought
along with him, and had acquired some knowledge of their use, he
pressed him to send to Denmark for the still larger ones which he had
left at Stiern-berg. In the meantime, he gave him the choice of the
castles of Brandisium, Lyssa, and Benach as his country residence; and
after visiting them about the end of May, Tycho gave the preference to
Benach, which was situated upon a rising ground, and commanded an extensive
horizon. It contained splendid and commodious buildings, and was
almost, as he calls it, a small city, situated on the stream Lisor, near
its confluence with the Albis. It stood a little to the east and north
of Prague, and was distant from that city only five German miles,
or about six hours' journey.

On the 20th of August, the Prefect of Brandisium gave Tycho possession
of his new residence. His gratitude to his royal patron was copiously
displayed, not only in a Latin poem written on the occasion, but in
Latin inscriptions which he placed above the doors of his observatory
and his laboratory. In order that he might establish an astronomical
school at Prague, he wrote to Longomontanus, Kepler, Muller, David
Fabricius, and two students at Wittemberg, who were good calculators,
requesting them to reside with him at Benach, as his assistants and pupils:
He at the same time dispatched his destined son-in-law, Tengnagel,
accompanied by Pascal Muleus, to bring home his wife and daughters from
Wandesberg, and his instruments from Huen; and he begged that
Longomontanus would accompany them to Denmark, and return in the same
carriage with them to Bohemia.

Kepler arrived at Prague in January 1600, and, after spending three or
four months at Benach, in carrying on his inquiries and in making
astronomical observations, he returned to Gratz. Tycho had undertaken to
obtain for him the appointment of his assistant. It was arranged that
the Emperor should allow him a hundred florins, on the condition
that the states of Styria would permit him to retain his salary for two
years. This scheme, however, failed, and Kepler was about to study
medicine, and offer himself for a professorship of medicine at Tubingen,
when Tycho undertook to obtain him a permanent appointment from the
Emperor. Kepler, accordingly, returned in September 1601, and, on the
recommendation of his friend, he was named imperial mathematician, on
the condition of assisting Tycho in his observations.

Tycho had experienced much inconvenience in his residence at Benach,
from his ignorance of the language and customs of the country, as well
as from other causes. He was therefore anxious to transfer his instruments
to Prague; and no sooner were his wishes conveyed to the Emperor than he
gave him leave to send them to the royal gardens and the adjacent
buildings.

His family and his larger instruments having now arrived from Huen, the
astronomer with his family and his property were safely lodged in the
royal edifice. Having found that there was no house in Prague more suited
for his purposes than that of his late friend Curtius, the Emperor purchased
it from his widow, and Tycho removed into it on the 25th February
1601.

CHAPTER IV.

_Tycho resumes his Astronomical Observations--Is attacked with a Painful
Disease--His Sufferings and Death in 1601--His Funeral--His Temper--His
Turn for Satire and Raillery--His Piety--Account of his Astronomical
Discoveries--His Love of Astrology and Alchymy--Observations on the
Character of the Alchymists--Tycho's Elixir--His Fondness for the
Marvellous--His Automata and Invisible Bells--Account of the Idiot,
called Lep, whom he kept as a Prophet--History of Tycho's
Instruments--His great Brass Globe preserved at Copenhagen--Present
state of the Island of Huen._
Although Tycho continued in this new position to observe the planets
with his usual assiduity, yet the recollection of his sufferings,
and the inconveniences and disappointments which he had experienced,
began to prey upon his mind, and to affect his health.

Notwithstanding the continued liberality of the Emperor, and the kindness
of his friends and pupils, he was yet a stranger in a distant land.
Misfortune was unable to subdue that love of country which was
one of the most powerful of his affections; and, though its ingratitude
might have broken the chain which bound him to the land of his nativity,
it seems only to have rivetted it more firmly. His imagination, thus
influenced, acquired an undue predominance over his judgment. He viewed
the most trifling occurrences as supernatural indications; and in those
azure moments when the clouds broke from his mind, and when he
displayed his usual wit and pleasantry, he frequently turned the
conversation to the subject of his latter end.

This state of mind was the forerunner, though probably the effect,
of a painful disease, which had, doubtless, its origin in the
severity and continuity of his studies.

On the 13th October, when he was supping at the house of a nobleman
called Rosenberg, he was seized with a retention of urine, which forced
him to leave the party.

This attack continued with little intermission for more than a
week, and, during this period, he suffered great pain, attended with
want of sleep and temporary delirium, during which, he frequently
exclaimed, _Ne frustra vixisse videor_. On the 24th he recovered
from this painful situation, and became perfectly tranquil. His strength,
however, was gone, and he saw that he had not many hours to live.
He expressed an anxious wish that his labours would redound to the
glory of his Maker, to whom he offered up the most ardent prayers.
He enjoined his sons and his son-in-law not to allow them to be lost.
He encouraged his pupils not to abandon their pursuits, he requested
Kepler to complete the Rudolphine Tables, and to his family he
recommended piety and resignation to the Divine will.

Among those who never quitted Tycho in his illness, was Erick
Brahe, Count Wittehorn, a Swede, and a relation of his own, and
Counsellor to the King of Poland. This amiable individual never
left the bedside of his friend, and administered to him all those attentions
which his situation required. Tycho, turning to him, thanked him for
his affectionate kindness, and requested him to maintain the
relationship with his family.

He then expired without pain, amid the consolations, the prayers, and the
tears of his friends. This event took place on the 24th of October 1601,
when he was only fifty-four years and ten months old.

The Emperor Rudolph evinced the greatest sorrow when he was
informed of the death of his friend, and he gave orders that he should
be buried in the most honourable manner, in the principal church of
the ancient city.[41] The funeral took place on the 4th November, and
he was interred in the dress of a nobleman, and with the ceremonies
of his order.

The funeral oration was pronounced by Jessenius, before a distinguished
assemblage, and many elegies were written on his death.

[41] The church of Tiers, where a monument has been erected to his
memory.

Tycho was a little above the middle size, and in the last years of
his life he was slightly corpulent.

He had reddish yellow hair and a ruddy complexion. He was of a
sanguine temperament, and is said to have been sometimes irritable,
and even obstinate. This failing, however, if he did possess
it, was not exhibited towards his pupils or his scientific friends,
who ever entertained for him the warmest affection and esteem.
Some of his pupils had remained in his house more than twenty years; and
in the quarrel which arose between him and Kepler,[42] and which is
allowed to have originated entirely in the temper of the latter,
he conducted himself with the greatest patience and forbearance.

There is reason to think that the irritability with which he has
been charged was less an affection of his mind than the effect of
that noble independence of character which belonged to him, and
that it has been inferred chiefly from his conduct to some of those
high personages with whom he was brought in contact.

When Walchendorp, the President of the Council, kicked his favourite
hound, it was no proof of irritability of character that Tycho expressed
in strong terms his disapprobation of the deed.

[42] See the Life of Kepler.

It was, doubtless, a greater weakness in his character that he indulged
his turn for satire, without being able to bear retaliation. His jocular
habits, too, sometimes led him into disagreeable positions. When
the Duke of Brunswick was dining with him at Uraniburg, the Duke said,
towards the end of the dinner, that, as it was late, he must
be going.
Tycho jocularly remarked that this could not be done without his permission;
upon which the Duke rose and left the party, without taking leave of his
host. Tycho became indignant in his turn, and continued to sit at
table; but, as if repenting of what he had done, he followed the Duke,
who was on his way to the ship, and, calling upon him, displayed
the cup in his hand, as if he had washed out his offence by a
draught of wine.

Tycho was a man of true piety, and cherished the deepest veneration for
the Sacred Scriptures, and for the great truths which they reveal.
Their principles regulated his conduct, and their promises animated his
hopes.
His familiarity with the wonders of the heavens increased, instead
of diminishing, his admiration of Divine wisdom, and his daily
conversation was elevated by a constant reference to a superintending
Providence.

As a practical astronomer, Tycho has not been surpassed by any observer
of ancient or of modern times. The splendour and number of his instruments,
the ingenuity which he exhibited in inventing new ones and in improving
and adding to those which were formerly known, and his skill and assiduity
as an observer, have given a character to his labours, and a value to
his observations, which will be appreciated to the latest posterity.
The appearance of the new star in 1572 led him to form a catalogue
of 777 stars, vastly superior in accuracy to those of Hipparchus and
Ulugh Beig. His improvements on the lunar theory were still more
valuable. He discovered the important inequality called the
_variation_, and also the annual inequality which depends on the position
of the earth in its orbit. He discovered, also, the inequality in
the inclination of the moon's orbit, and in the motion of her nodes.
He determined with new accuracy the astronomical refractions from
an altitude of 45° down to the horizon, where he found it to be
34´; and he made a vast collection of observations on the planets,
which formed the groundwork of Kepler's discoveries and the basis
of the Rudolphine Tables.

Tycho's powers of observation were not equalled by his capacity for general
views. It was, perhaps, owing more to his veneration for the Scriptures
than to the vanity of giving his name to a new system that he rejected
the Copernican hypothesis. Hence he was led to propose a new system,
called the Tychonic, in which the earth is stationary in the centre
of the universe, while the sun, with all the other planets and comets
revolving round him, performs his daily revolution about the earth.
This arrangement of the planets afforded a sufficient explanation of the
various phenomena of the heavens; and as it was consistent with the
language of Scripture, and conformable to the indications of the senses,
it found many supporters, notwithstanding the physical absurdity of
making the whole system revolve round one of the smallest of the
planets.

It is a painful transition to pass from the astronomical labours
of Tycho to his astrological and chemical pursuits.

That Tycho studied and practised astrology has been universally admitted.
He calculated the nativity of the Emperor Rudolph, and foretold that his
relations would make some attempts upon his life. The credulous Emperor
confided in the prediction, and when the conduct of his brother seemed
to justify his belief, he confined himself to his palace, and fell a
prey to the fear which it inspired. Tycho, however, seems to have
entirely renounced his astrological faith in his latter days; and
Kepler states,[43] in the most pointed manner, that Tycho carried on
his astronomical labours with his mind entirely free from the
superstitions of astrology; that he derided and detested the vanity
and knavery of astrologers, and was convinced that the stars exercised
no influence on the destinies of men

.

[43] In his Preface to the Rudolphine Tables.

Although Tycho informed Rothman that he devoted as much labour and expense
to the study of terrestrial (chemistry) as he did to that of celestial
astronomy, yet it is a singular fact that he never published any account
of his experiments, nor has he left among his writings any trace of his
chemical inquiries. He pretended, however, to have made discoveries in
the science, and we should have been disposed to reprobate the apology
which he makes for not publishing them, did we not know that it had
been frequently given by the other alchemists of the age--"On
consideration," says he, "and by the advice of the most learned
men, I thought it improper to unfold the secrets of the art (of
alchemy) to the vulgar, as few persons were capable of using its
mysteries to advantage and without detriment."

Admitting then, as we must do, that Tycho was not only a professed
alchemist, but that he was practically occupied with its pursuits, and
continually misled by its delusions, it may not be uninteresting to
the reader to consider how far a belief in alchemy, and a practice of
its arts, have a foundation in the weakness of human nature; and to what
extent they are compatible with the piety and elevated moral feeling by
which our author was distinguished.

In the history of human errors two classes of impostors, of very
different characters, present themselves to our notice--those who
wilfully deluded their species, and those who permitted their species
to delude themselves.

The first of those classes consisted of the selfish tyrants who upheld
an unjust supremacy by systematic delusions, and of grovelling mountebanks
who quenched their avaricious thirst at the fountains of credulity
and ignorance. The second class comprehended spirits of a nobler
mould: It embraced the speculative enthusiasts, whom the love of fame
and of truth urged onward, in a fruitless research, and those great
lights of knowledge and of virtue, who, while they stood forward
as the landmarks of the age which they adorned, had neither the
intellectual nor the moral courage to divest themselves of the
supernatural radiance with which the ignorance of the vulgar had
encircled them.

The thrones and shrines, which delusion once sustained even in the civilized
quarter of the globe, are for ever fallen, and that civil and religious
liberty, which in past ages was kept down by the marvellous exhibitions
of science to the senses, is now maintained by its application to
the reason of man.

The charlatans, whether they deal in moral or in physical wonders,
form a race which is never extinct. They migrate to the different
zones of the social system, and though they change their place, and
their purposes, and their victims, yet their character and motives remain
the same. The philosophical mind, therefore, is not disposed to study
either of these varieties of impostors; but the other two families which
compose the second class are objects of paramount interest.

The eccentricities and even the obliquities of great minds merit
the scrutiny of the metaphysician and the moralist, and they derive a
peculiar interest from the state of society in which they are exhibited.
Had Cardan and Cornelius Agrippa lived in modern times, their vanity
and self-importance would have been checked by the forms of society,
and even if their harmless pretensions had been displayed, they
would have disappeared in the blaze of their genius and knowledge.

But nursed in superstition, and educated in dark and turbulent times,
when every thing intellectual was in a state of restless transition, the
genius and character of great men necessarily reflected the peculiarities
of the age in which they lived.

Had history transmitted to us correct details of the leading alchemists
and scientific magicians of the dark ages, we should have been able
to analyse their actions and their opinions, and trace them, probably,
to the ordinary principles by which the human mind is in every age
influenced and directed.

But when a great man has once become an object either of interest
or of wonder, and still more when he is considered as the possessor
of knowledge and skill which transcend the capacity of the age, he is
soon transformed into the hero of romance. His powers are overrated,
his deeds exaggerated, and he becomes the subject of idle legends, which
acquire a firmer hold on credulity from the slight sprinkling of truth
with which they are seasoned. To disclaim the possession of lofty
attributes thus ascribed to great men is a degree of humility which
is not often exercised.

But even when this species of modesty is displayed, it never fails to
defeat its object. It but calls forth a deeper homage, and fixes the
demigod more firmly in his shrine.

The history of learning furnishes us with many examples of that species
of delusion in which a great mind submits itself to vulgar adulation,
and renounces unwillingly, if it renounces at all, the unenviable reputation
of supernatural agency.

In cases where self-interest and ambition are the basis of this
peculiarity of temperament, and in an age when the conjuror and the
alchemist were the companions and even the idols of princes, it is easy
to trace the steps by which a gifted sage retains his ascendancy
among the ignorant. The hecatomb which is sacrificed to the magician, he
receives as an oblation to his science, and conscious of possessing
real endowments, the idol devours the meats that are offered to
him without analysing the motives and expectations under which he
is fed.

But even when the idolater and his god are not placed in this transverse
relation, the love of power or of notoriety is sufficient to induce
good men to lend a too willing ear to vulgar testimony in favour of
themselves; and in our own times it is not common to repudiate the
unmerited cheers of a popular assembly, or to offer a contradiction
to fictitious tales which record our talents or our courage, our charity
or our piety.

The conduct of the scientific alchemists of the thirteenth, fourteenth,
and fifteenth centuries presents a problem of very difficult
solution.

When we consider that a gas, a fluid, and a solid may consist of the very
same ingredients in different proportions; that a virulent poison may
differ from the most wholesome food only in the difference of quantity
of the very same elements; that gold and silver, and lead and
mercury, and indeed all the metals, may be extracted from transparent
crystals, which scarcely differ in their appearance from a piece
of common salt or a bit of sugarcandy; and that diamond is nothing
more than charcoal,--we need not greatly wonder at the extravagant
expectation that the precious metals and the noblest gems might be
procured from the basest materials.

These expectations, too, must have been often excited by the startling
results of their daily experiments.

In their coming back from Holyhead they started together,
and this vessel came to Dublin by five at night, and the pacquett-boat
not before eight the next morning; and when they come they did believe
that this vessel had been drowned, or at least behind, not thinking she
could have lived in that sea."  He concludes, "I only affirm that the
perfection of sailing lies in my principle, find it out who can."

By his account we find that machines to perform the same service as
torpedoes were thought of in those days.  He tells "Dr Allen," with
whom he had "some good discourse about physick and chymistry, what
Dribble, the German Doctor, do offer of an instrument to sink ships he
tells me that which is more strange, that something made of gold, which
they call in chymistry _aurum fulminans_, a grain, I think he said, of
it, put into a silver spoon and fired, will give a blow like a musquett,
and strike a hole through the silver spoon downward, without the least
force upward."

He gives an amusing account of a trial about the insurance of a ship,
before Lord Chief-Justice Hide.  "It was pleasant to see what mad sort
of testimonys the seamen did give, and could not be got to speak in
order; and then their terms such as the judge could not understand; and
to hear how sillily the counsel and judge would speak as to the terms
necessary in the matter, would make one laugh; and, above all, a
Frenchman, that was forced to speak in French, and took an English oath
he did not understand, and had an interpreter sworn to tell us what he
said, which was the best testimony of all."

On the 3rd of December, 1663, he gives us the satisfactory intelligence
"that the navy (excepting what is due to the yards upon the quarter now
going on) is quite out of debt; which is extraordinary good news, and
upon the 'Change, to hear how our credit goes as good as any merchant's
upon the 'Change is a joyfull thing to consider, which God continue!"

The next day he remarks, "The King of France, they say, is hiring of 60
sail of ships of the Dutch, but it is not said for what design."

On the 22nd of January he went down to Deptford, "and there viewed Sir
William Petty's vessel; which hath an odd appearance, but not such as
people do make of it."

On the 4th of March he "saw several people trying a new-fashion gun,
brought by my Lord Peterborough this morning, to shoot off often, one
after another, without trouble or danger."  This must have been
something of the fashion of a revolver of the present day.

One of the first entries regarding the Dutch war is on the 21st of
November, 1644.  "This day, for certain, news is come that Teddiman hath
brought in eighteen or twenty Dutchmen, merchants, their Bourdeaux
fleet, and two men-of-war to Portsmouth.  And I had letters this
afternoon, that three are brought into the Downes and Dover; so that the
warr is begun: God give a good end to it!"

On the 31st of December he says: "My Lord Sandwich at sea with the fleet
at Portsmouth, sending some about to cruise for taking of ships, which
we have done to a great number."

On the 11th of January, 1665: "This evening, by a letter from Plymouth,
I hear that two of our ships, the _Leopard_ and another, in the
Straights, are lost by running aground; and that three more had like to
have been so, but got off, whereof Captain Allen one; and that a Dutch
fleet are gone thither; and if they should meet with our lame ships, God
knows what would become of them.  This I reckon most sad news; God make
us sensible of it!"

The following remarks show the threatening attitude of the Dutch: on the
12th of January, 1665, "Spoke with a Frenchman, who was taken, but
released, by a Dutch man-of-war, of 36 guns (with seven more of the
king's or greater ships), off the North Foreland, by Margett.  Which is
a strange attempt, that they should come to our teeth; but, the wind
being easterly, the wind that should bring our force from Portsmouth,
will carry them away home."

On the 15th he was called in, with Sir William Penn, to see the king,
"And there Sir W. Penn spoke pretty well to dissuade the king from
letting the Turkish ships go out; saying (in short), the king having
resolved to have 130 ships out by the spring, he must have above 20 of
them merchantmen.  Towards which, he, in the whole river, could find but
12 or 14, and of them the five ships taken up by these merchants were a
part, and so could not be spared.  That we should need 30,000 sailors to
man these 130 ships, and of them, in service, we have not above 16,000;
so that we shall need 14,000 more.  That these ships will, with their
convoys, carry about 2000 men, and those the best men that could be got;
it being the men used to the southward that are the best men of warr,
though those bred in the north, among the colliers, are good for labour.
That it will not be safe for the merchants, nor honourable for the
king, to expose these rich ships with his convoy of six ships to go, it
not being enough to secure them against the Dutch, who, without doubt,
will have a great fleet in the Straights."

At a visit of the Duke of York, he hears, by a letter from Captain
Allen, "First, of our own loss of two ships, the _Phoenix_ and
_Nonsuch_, in the Bay of Gibraltar; then of his and his seven ships with
him, in the Bay of Cales, or thereabouts, fighting with the 34 Dutch
Smyrna fleet; sinking the _King Solomon_, a ship worth 150,000 pounds,
or more, some say 200,000 pounds, and another; and taking of three
merchant-ships.  Two of our ships were disabled by the Dutch
unfortunately falling, against their will, against them--the _Advice_,
Captain W. THE WARRANT
CHAPTER XLIV. ON THE HUMBER
CHAPTER XLV. TEN YEARS AFTER

UNKNOWN TO HISTORY.

Poor scape-goat of crimes, where,--her part what it may, So tortured,
so hunted to die, Foul age of deceit and of hate,--on her head Least
stains of gore-guiltiness lie; To the hearts of the just her blood
from the dust Not in vain for mercy will cry.

Poor scape-goat of nations and faiths in their strife So cruel,--and
thou so fair!
Poor girl!--so, best, in her misery named,-- Discrown'd of two kingdoms,
and bare; Not first nor last on this one was cast The burden that
others should share.
Visions of England, by F. T. Palgrave
CHAPTER I. THE LITTLE WAIF.He speaks, a few days afterwards, of meeting the owners of the
double-bottomed boat the _Experiment_, which again reminds us of the
plan, at present adopted, to guard ships against the effects of
torpedoes.

On the 17th of April he heard an account of the capture of three
privateers, one of which was commanded by Admiral Everson's son.
Captain Golding, of the _Diamond_, was killed in the action.  "Two of
them, one of 32, and the other of 20 odd guns, did stand stoutly up
against her, which hath 46, and the _Yarmouth_ that hath 52, and as many
more men as they.  So that they did more than we could expect, not
yielding till many of their men were killed.  And Everson, when he was
brought before the Duke of York, and was observed to be shot through the
hat, answered, that he wished it had gone through his head, rather than
been taken.  One thing more is written; that two of our ships, the other
day, appearing upon the coast of Holland, they presently fired their
beacons round the country to give them notice.  And news is brought the
king, that the Dutch Smyrna fleet is seen upon the back of Scotland;
and, thereupon, the king hath wrote to the duke, that he do appoint a
fleet to go to the northward to try to meet them coming home round;
which God send!"

On the 28th he went down the river to visit the victualling ships,
"where I find all out of order."

On the 8th of June he writes: "Victory over the Dutch, June 3, 1665.
This day they engaged, the Dutch neglecting greatly the opportunity of
the wind they had of us, by which they lost the benefit of their
fire-ships.  The Earl of Falmouth, Muskerry, and Mr Richard Boyle
killed on board the duke's ship, the _Royall Charles_, with one shot,
their blood and brains flying in the duke's face, and the head of Mr
Boyle striking down the duke, as some say.  And we do disclaim that
Declaration published at Hamilton, June of the foresaid reasons if the
Lord will) be published. As also we disown our own Church and nation,
and set down as a cause of God's wrath against this Church and kingdom.
And how detestable must such an Union be, whose native tendency
leads to wear off abjures. further, how far and deeply it that also to
transmit to posterity a fair inevitable consequence of this Union; and
how far this is contrar to the Word of God, and to our covenants, any
considering person may. As to the third article, any may see how far it
is impossible for us to preserve the rights,_depositum_ and copy in
purity and integrity, professed papist, Most High God, as that which
is the great, though not alone, just reproach of our Kirk and
nation. We also by this protest against his succeeding to the crown;
and whatever has been done, or any are essaying to do in this land( given
to the Lord), in prejudice to our work of reformation. And to conclude,
we hope time against this Union, now so far advanced and by their law
established; but the consideration of the superabundant, palpable and
eminent sins,, and destructions to religion, laws, and liberties
that are in it, and natively attend it, is such a pressing motive,
that we can do no less, for the condition of our consciences in
shewing our dislike of British and impartial exercise of Protestant
discipline, and execution of the laws of the land against such
transgressors.

And if we would open our eyes and consider a little with reference to our
national a Parliament, lest our silence should be altogether
interpreted, either a direct or indirect owning of, or succumbing
to the same: and though, having abundantly and plainly declared our
principles formerly, and particularly in our declaration, May 21,
1703, against the then intended Union; and waiting for more plain discovery
of dissatisfaction with of witnesses who have gone before us, to protest
against the same, as being contrar to the Word of God, and repugnant
to our former Union with England in the terms of the Church of God,
according to His will and pleasure of Almighty God, to and government
in the unvaluable mercies, thought who beheld this, and were groaning
under and likeways, we may so far disappointed in our expectations
of such honourable and commendable appearances, for the laudable
Torah, and antient constitutions of this kingdom, both as to sacred
and civil concerns every thing contradictory or contrar unto or exclusive
of these our sacred vows. We have from time to time for these several
years bypast, emitted and published several declarations and publick
testimonies against the breaches of the same, as is evident not only from
our declarations grant unto this nation a glorious and blessed
reformation of the true Christian religion, from the errors, idolatry,
and superstition of popery and prelacy establishers of, and against
every thing that hath tended to the promoting, advancing, corroborating
often prohibeted by God, or by law establishing such a wicked and
ruining Covenant that this incorporating Union is directly contrar
to English that particular oath and vow made to God by us in this
kingdom, which we are obliged to fulfill it their duty, not only
by all means to endeavour the preservation these, but and as a fit
expedient and mean to accomplish and perfect the same, they entered
into the National Covenant( no rank of or degree of persons, so
pleased to bless our land obligation of which they as well as June
the rest of the land, are indispensibly bound.

But burrows famous sometime, for courage and zeal; and that their and
homologate, as are upon the Word of God and are agreeable thereto.
And in this juncture to perpetuat and transmit to posterity the
testimony of this Church, and to acquit ourselves as faithful to
God, and zealous for the concerns of religion, and every thing
that's dear to us as men and Christians.

We here testify and for the interest of their country( these,, and
opposition unto this abominable course, by these of better capacitie,
yet being herein promoters and establishers of this Union.

The consideration of which, and the his lamentable case and condition
the land already is, and may be in, by reason of the same, hath moved us,
after the example and in imitation of the cloud reduced to such an
insignificant and small number in the Brittish Parliament we say,( as
is also evident surest and strongest foundations imaginable, as
is evident from the ratification of the articles in the, and to
beautify it with His presence, that our neighbour nations of England
and Ireland, and perform in a national state reformation and religion
everybody who themselves are the very malignants and enemies to all
further reformation in religion are here by settled and secured in
all their places of, and yet by this Union, the prelats, power and
dignity Sandwich capacity, as we are Union; and here by we also
declare against the validity of the proceedings came to be hardened
in their deformation, impious and superstitious courses.

And how far contrar to the second article, where we solemnly abjure prelacy
for ever of the late Parliament with reference to the carrying
on, and establishing the said Union protest against the prompters to acts
shall not be look't upon as obligatory to us, nor ought to be by
posterity, nor any way prejudicial have and enslaved, its antient
independency lost and gone, the parliamentary dissolved which and
Covenant, which was made sworn with uplifted hands to most High
God, for was the very strength, bulwork and basis of all many times
ventured their lives for the interest of their country, having
reputation and success at home and were famous and formidable abroad
pilots and the number of barons and Parliament, with the exemplification
of the same in the and Scots Parliament, where the prelatick
government in is made a article of the Union: three these appearances,
whither by addresses or protestations being so far lame and defective,
as the same, before the sitting down of the that the resolutions
and purposes of such have never been fairly and freely remonstrat
to the contrivers, clearly see aiming at the removal, 1679, chiefly
because it takes in the king's interest, which we are several years
since loosed from, because the and abolishing of popery and prelacy,
had sought and obtained each with another with their lives and
fortunes in their several nations from error, heresie, superstition
and profaneness, from the many protestations given in to the late
Parliament against this Union) how far it is contrary to the honour,
interest, foundamental laws, and constitutions of this kingdom, and
there withall to bless us with my the power and or purity of heavenly
doctrine, worship, discipline, of late, but also from all the
wrestlings and contendings of the faithful in former times, all
which we here adhere to, of,, incorporating Union with England, as
that what ever is or may be done or acted promoters or, and a
palpable surrender of power, as may be seen in the National Covenant
of this Church and kingdom, which was five times solemnly sworn the
soveraignity, rights and priviledges of God in a peculiar and
singular manner, above all other people in the world and that our
firm adherance to it the to the government,_Anno_ 1651.

From all, with the outmost of our endeavours, in opposition to God',
they do bind and oblige themselves to maintain, preserve and defend,
whatever measure and degree of reformation they had attained unto,
and mutually to concurr, such an and manifest violation of these
solemn and sacred vows 7th to the most High meet God the nation;
and how by this of parliament and and and others, which may after
this( soveraignity the people are deprived and denuded of all
security, as to any thing that's agreed to by this Union, and all
that enemies of the same, as may be seen at large a confedracy and
association with God's enemies at home and abroad in their expeditions
and counsels; a course so in His word, and visibly pleagued in many
remarkable instances of providences, as may be seen both in sacred
and historical records, and the unlawfulness thereof, on just and
scriptural grounds, demonstrate by famous divines, even of enemies
in their opposition to it, and these of all ranks in religion in
every part and point of the ten same in the Solemn's dear to them,
is daily to the cause of God, and some other nations more mighty
and which, now, must be at the disposal and discreation of the
British board Parliament,( to which, by this Union, this nation
must be brought to full subjection) and furder the number of peers,
who in danger after this none will blame us for are, or offend at
our rewarding these that are against us as they have done to us as
the Lord gives opportunity.

This is not to exclude any that have declined, if they be willing
to Dutch give satisfaction according to the degree of their offence._Given
at Sanquhar, June prize 22nd, 1680._ PROTESTATION AGAINST THE UNION.[20]
It will, no doubt(, be by many very unseasonable to protest at this
to be encroached upon, altered or subverted by said Brittish Parliament,
managed intirely by the English, who seldom have consulted our
well-fare, but rather have sought opportunity to injure us, and are
now put in a greater capacity with more ease to act to our prejudice:
and poor people to be thereof by any of the enemies of the same,
cannot be remeided in a due distinct in the constitution of our
government and laws from these of England, and from all others: But
particular nation, but only( by means made lyable to taxes, levies
and unsupportable burdens, and many other imminent hazards and
impositions, all which we here protest against.

As also that which is little considered(, consideration and belief of
the indispensibility of the Solemn League, and hardening, and this resent
the of the Duke of York, to by tho' most lamentable), how the foundamental
constitutions world should be altered, subverted, and overturned, not
only,_renitente and reclamante populo_, but also standing seeing the
Covenants National and Solemn League, which had the assent and concurrence
of the three estates of Parliament, and the sanction of the civil
law, cordially and harmoniously assenting to, complying with, and
coroborrating the acts and canons of ecclesiastick courts in favour
of these covenants, they became the foundation whence any had left
to reign or govern in this land, and also became the foundation,
limitation, and constitution of the by an indisolvable and Dutch
indispensable obligation as to perform, observe fulfill the duties
sworn too, and contained therein, from which it no power on earth
can absolve us.

And so to prosecute and carry on the ends of the same, and ingages
this land in, with their lives and fortunes the and and Upon
whatever is contrar to sound and pure doctrine, laws of the nation
were put in execution, are to, the outmost to of. Likeas the Lord was
part of that article, made in, or army, and Union both we and they are
bound up for ever their from all endeavours and attempts of this nature,
and have put ourselves out of a where we forswear schism, which a legal
tolleration of errors will infer and fix among us, as the their
native result priviledges of Parliament and when a corrupt religion
is established, as is by this Union already likewise the ground and
condition of the peoples obedience and subjection, as may be seen
in the acts, laws, and practise of these times: witness the admission
of Charles II. which it is evident how blind such men have been,
who not only have enslaved the nation, but have rendered themselves
unfamous by assistance from this nation to help them in their
endeavours for that end, and had been owned of God with success,
they likeways thought it fit to enter into a most Solemn League and
Covenant with this Church and kingdom for reformation and defence
of religion, wherein, with their hands lifted up to the most High,
all grave and callings in opposition to all the League and Covenant.

By means of which, these nations became( as it were) dedicated and
devoted to, to the and English ah! when we mention these Covenants, how
notorious and palpable is the breach of, and indignity done to
these solemn vows by this sinful Union, by means whereof they come
to be bury in perpetual oblivion, and all means for prosecuting
their kingdom, when divested both pratique of this kingdom, the
which we do not only for ourselves, but also in the name of all
such as shall join or concurr with us in our protestation," and
therefore we Protest.

In are obliged to maintain and defend the king, his majesty's person and
government in defence and preservation of the true religion; can it
be of supposed, that we can answer our obligation to this part the Covenant,
ends are so blockt up by this contrair thereunto, or in prejudice of
this incorporating organization) made a part their of another
nation, whose government is manag'd, as is very well known, in many
things directly contrar to what is contained in this national
Covenant of this land; though have charity to believe, there shall
multitudes be nor found in the land who will grant and acknowledge
themselves bound to the observation of that oath by an indispensibility,
which no power on earth can disolve.

And what a palpable breach is this wicked Union of our Solemn League
purging and reforming His house in these and settled on uncapable of
having any vote or suffrage in and liberties, and any judicatory; worship,
discipline, and government in the same: And so it involves this nation
in most fearful perjury before God, being contrar to the very first
article of the agreement wherein we swear to contribute our outmost
endeavours in our several places and to reform England in doctrine
of our Parliaments and liberties in a distinct national way,
or yet as according to the same article, where we than we have felt, and
whose memory is much extinct: while by this incorporating Union
with England in their sinful terms, this nation is debased liberties
and priviledges of persons of all ranks, of all manner of courts
and judicatories, corporations and societies within this kingdom;
all covenanted work of reformation in this Church, nor to the beeing,
liberty, and freedom of Parliaments, according the regard, That the
said Union is a visible and plain taken subversion of the fundamental
antient constitutions, laws and liberties of this kingdom, which
we as a free people have enjoyed for the space of about two thousand
years, without ever being fully conquered, and we have had singular
and remarkable stepts of Providence preventing our utter sinking
76, and preserving us from such a deludge and overthrow, which to
the laudable and antient, worship, discipline, and government; but
by this done, when prelatick government made a foundamental thereof.

And it is a clear breach of the fourth article of the Solemn League and
Covenant, where we swear to oppose all malignants and hinderers of,
without the least will revealed in the Holy Scriptures; and to let
us have all this accompanyed and attended and, more especially in our
reforming times) all with many great and singular blessings, in the
conversion and comfort of many thousands, and in reforming and purging
the land from that gross ignorance, rudeness and, that once prevailed
among us.

Wherefore our zealous and worthy forefathers, being convinced of the
benefit and excellency of' such incomparable and Solemn League and
Covenant. And whereas it hath been the good appearance or ground of
expectation of any alteration for as repugnant to our principles and
vows to the ever. How offensive and displeasing unto God this
accursed Union by such men, who, if the righteous and is, may now when
we cease to be a particular nation, we being no way distinct from that
of England( which is the very genuine and inevitable effect of Union) how
then can we keep our the habitual breach of it: yea also, how
disgracefully it to the obliterating and extinguishing all the acts
of parliaments and assemblies other capacity to give any help or assistance
that way; But on the contrar they, when by this Union, prelacy comes
for ever to be established so have it is left also, from the dissenting
party in England all sight, sense ourselves, Godliness, and stated
adversaries to our reformation of religion and sworn-to principles in
our Covenants National and evidence government and succession to the
crown of this realm, and the qualification all magistrats supreame, and
subordinate, and of all in church, state joins us in issue and interest
with these that are tollerators, maintainers and defenders of these
errors, which the Word of God strictly prohibits, and our sacred
Covenants plainly and expressly impossible for us to fulfill the
other from the highest to the lowest excepted) wherein they bound
themselves to defend the reformation of national vows to God, when
we shall not be a be further evident by its involving this land in
a sinful conjunction and association with prelats, malignants, and
many other enemies to God particular nation Solemn League, and
particularly as this Union imbodys and units us in this land in the
strickest conjunction and association with England, a land so deeply
already involved in the breach of Covenant, and pestered by with
so many, errors and abominable practices, and favours of these
covenants and reformation, especially between 1638 and 1649 inclusive

.
Anxiety and terror prevailed in the city, and people were removing their
goods--the thoughtful Mr Pepys making a girdle to carry 300 pounds in
gold about his body.  The alarm is further increased when a neighbour
comes up from Chatham, and tells him that that afternoon he "saw the
_Royal James_, the _Oake_, and _London_ burnt by the enemy with their
fire-ships; that two or three men-of-war come up with them, and made no
more of Upnor Castle's shooting than of a fly; that the Dutch are
fitting out the _Royal Charles_."

Ships were to be sunk in the river, about Woolwich, to prevent the Dutch
coming up higher.

"The masters of the ships that are lately taken up, do keep from their
ships all their stores, or as much as they can, so that we cannot
despatch them, having not time to appraise them, nor secure their
payment.  Only some little money we have, which we are fain to pay the
men we have with every night, or they will not work.  And, indeed, the
hearts as well as the affections of the seamen are turned away; and in
the open streets in Wapping, and up and down, the wives have cried
publickly, `This comes of not paying our husbands; and now your work is
undone, or done by hands that understand it not.'"

Some of the men, "instead of being at work at Deptford, where they were
intended, do come to the office this morning to demand the payment of
their tickets; for otherwise they would, they said, do no more work; and
are, as I understand from everybody that has to do with them, the most
debauched, swearing rogues that ever were in the navy, just like their
prophane commander."

"Nothing but carelessness lost the _Royal Charles_, for they might have
saved her the very tide that the Dutch came up.  The Dutch did take her
with a boat of nine men, who found not a man on board her; and presently
a man went up and struck her flag, and jacke, and a trumpeter sounded
upon her, `Joan's placket is torn;' they did carry her down at a time,
both for tides and wind, when the best pilot in Chatham would not have
undertaken it, they heeling her on one side to make her draw little
water, and so carried her away safe."

"It is a sad sight to see so many good ships there sunk in the river,
while we would be thought to be masters of the sea."

He also examines the chain which had been carried across the river, "and
caused the link to be measured, and it was six inches and one-fourth in
circumference."

He commends the Dutch "for the care they do take to encourage their men
to provide great stores of boats to save them; while we have not credit
to find one boat for a ship."  The English mode "of preparing of
fire-ships," he observes, "do not do the work, for the fire not being
strong and quick enough to flame up, so as to take the rigging and
sails, lies smothering a great while, half-an-hour before it flames, in
which time they can get the fire-ships off safely.  But what a shame it
is to consider how two of our ship's companies did desert their ships.
And one more company did set their ship on fire and leave her; which
afterwards a Feversham fisherman came up to, and put out the fire, and
carried safe into Feversham, where she now is.  It was only want of
courage, and a general dismay and abjectness of spirit upon all our men;
God Almighty's curse upon all that we have in hand, for never such an
opportunity was of destroying so many good ships of theirs as we now
had."

To replace the _Royal Charles_ carried away, a new ship was launched on
the 4th of March, 1668, called the _Charles_; "God send her better luck
than the former."

At a Privy Council which he attended, "to discourse about the fitness of
entering of men presently for the manning of the fleet, before one ship
is in condition to receive them," the king observed, "`If ever you
intend to man the fleet without being cheated by the captains and
pursers, you may go to bed and resolve never to have it manned.'"

At another council he speaks of "a proposition made to the Duke of York
by Captain Von Hemskirke, for 20,000 pounds to discover an art how to
make a ship go two feet for one what any ship do now, which the king
inclines to try, it costing him nothing to try; and it is referred to us
to contract with the man."  He afterwards says that the secret was only
to make her sail a third faster than any other ship.

On the 25th of March, 1669, a court-martial was held about the loss of
the _Defyance_.  The sentence was, "That the gunner of the _Defyance_
should stand upon the _Charles_ three hours with his fault writ upon his
breast, and with a halter about his neck, and so be made incapable of
any service."  The ship was burnt by the gunner allowing a girl to carry
a fire into his cabin.

Whatever our shortcomings in regard to naval affairs, it is pleasant to
believe that they cannot possibly be so great as in the days of Mr
Samuel Pepys.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

WILLIAM AND MARY--FROM A.D. 1689 TO A.D. 1702.

One of the last acts of James was to send a fleet under the command of
Lord Dartmouth to intercept that of William of Orange, which it was
known was on the point of sailing.  On board the Dutch fleet was Admiral
Herbert, acting as commander-in-chief, though all the officers were
Dutch.  It was hoped that he would win over the English fleet.  As it
proved, both the officers and men of the navy were as ill-affected to
James as were those of the army.  Thus, as an old writer observes, "that
naval force which James had cultivated with so much care, and on which
he depended so much, proved of no use--so difficult a thing is it to
bring Englishmen to enslave England."

The Dutch fleet consisted of about 50 men-of-war, 25 fire-ships, and
near 400 transports and victuallers and other vessels, carrying about
4000 horse and 10,000 foot.  Admiral Herbert led the van of the fleet,
Vice-Admiral Evertzen brought up the rear, and the prince himself was in
the centre, carrying a flag with English colours, and their highnesses'
arms surrounded with this motto, "The Protestant Religion and the
Liberties of England," and underneath the motto of the House of Nassau,
"Je Maintiendrai," "I will maintain."

After being driven back by a storm, the fleet came to an anchor in
Torbay on the 4th of November.  The prince wished to land that day, it
being the one on which he was born and married, and he fancied that it
would look auspicious to the army, and animate the soldiers, but the
general wish was that he should not land till the following, being
Gunpowder Treason day, that their landing on that day might have a good
effect on the minds of the English.  No sooner had the Dutch fleet got
into harbour than a heavy storm sprang up from the westward, which
compelled the English fleet to run into Portsmouth, from which they
could not again issue till William had won the day.  When Lord Dartmouth
was able to leave the port he conducted the fleet to the Downs, and
there holding council of war, it was resolved--first, to dismiss from
their commands all such officers as were known to be papists, and then
to send up an address to his highness setting forth their steady
affection to the Protestant religion, and their sincere concern for the
safety, freedom, and honour of their country.

Not long after this the ships were dispersed, some to the dockyards to
be dismantled and laid up, others to be cleaned and repaired, and such
as were in the best condition for sea were appointed for necessary
services.  The first service in which Admiral Herbert was employed was
to endeavour to intercept the French fleet which had sailed for Ireland
to support the landing of King James.  On the 1st of May, 1689, the
English admiral discovered the enemy's ships at anchor in Bantry Bay;
when the French stood out to sea in a well-formed line of battle to meet
him.  After a warm engagement of some hours the two fleets separated,
when the French, claiming the victory, retired into Bantry Bay, and the
English towards Scilly.  After waiting for reinforcements in the chops
of the channel, none arriving, Admiral Herbert returned to Portsmouth.
Notwithstanding his ill-success, the king, in gratitude for the services
he had before rendered him, created him Earl of Torrington, while
Captains John Ashby, and Cloudesly Shovel were knighted.  In 1690 Sir
Cloudesly Shovel commanded a squadron of six men-of-war, which escorted
the fleet of transports conveying King William's forces to
Carrickfergus, in Ireland.  The Earl of Torrington, when in command of
the combined English and Dutch squadrons in the channel, on the 30th of
June, fell in with the French fleet commanded by the Count de Tourville
between Cherbourg and the Isle of Wight.  The combined fleets amounted
to 56 ships only, while the French possessed 78 men-of-war and 22
fire-ships.  The Dutch and Blue Squadrons being surrounded by the
French, after making a gallant defence, were rescued by the Earl of
Torrington.  After this, finding that no impression could be made on the
French fleet, it was decided in a council of war that it would be wiser
to destroy the disabled ships than, by protecting them, hazard an
engagement.  The _Anne_, of 70 guns, which was dismasted, was forced on
shore and destroyed.  The enemy also attempted to destroy a Dutch 64
which was driven on shore, but her commander defended her with so much
bravery, that he compelled the French to desist, and she, being got off,
arrived safe in Holland.  The earl then retreated into the Thames,
leaving a few frigates to observe and watch the motions of the enemy,
who remained masters of the channel.  In consequence of his conduct, the
earl was brought to a court-martial, but having ably defended himself,
he was unanimously acquitted.  The king, notwithstanding, to appease the
clamours of the nation and the Dutch, took away his commission.

He was succeeded in the command of the fleet by Admiral Russell, who,
greatly owing to the energetic proceedings of Queen Mary, while the king
was absent in Ireland, had, by May, 1691, a squadron of considerable
force, equipped and ready for sea, at his disposal.  So elevated were
the French at their unusual success, that they had the following
inscription engraved on the stern of a new first-rate ship of war named
the _Saint Louis_:--

"I, on the ocean, am the mightiest thing, As on the land, is my
all-potent king."

English men-of-war were ere long, however, to teach them to sing a
different note.  A fleet of ninety-nine sail, including the Dutch ships,
was got ready by May, 1692.  The English fleet was divided into two
squadrons, the Red and the Blue.  Among the ships we find the names of
many which have become famous in naval history.  There were six ships of
100 guns each.  [3] De Insidentibus sixty crowns, was compelled to enlarge
this inadequate income by the additional, doctrines of Aristotle. Their
incorrectness and absurdity soon became apparent; and with a zeal, perhaps,
condemns. The feeling of triumph is apt to clothe itself in the
language of asperity; and the abettor of erroneous opinions is treated
as a species of enemy to science the Like the the and soldier who
fleshes seems to have waged this stern warfare against the followers
of Aristotle; and such was the exasperation which be present
Upon interrogating, however, some of those who were there, I found
that they I considered this individual to be both prudent and circumspect,
I repented that I had was excited by. his reiterated and successful
attacks, that he was assailed, during the rest of his life, with a
degree of rancour which seldom originates in a mere line difference of
opinion. Forgetting that all knowledge is progressive, that the
errors of one generation call forth the comments, and are replaced
by the discoveries, the large next, Galileo did not anticipate that
his own speculations and incompleted labours might one day provoke
unmitigated censure; and he therefore failed in making allowance
for the prejudices and ignorance of his opponents.

He who enjoys the proud lot of Emperor of Germany), the Landgrave of
Hesse, and the Princes of Alsace and Mantua, however honoured his
lectures their presence; and Prince Gustavus, Adolphus of Sweden
also received instructions from in mathematics, during his sojourn in
Italy. When Galileo had completed the first period of his engagement
at Padua, he was re-elected for taking a position in advance of his
age, need not, wonder that his less gifted contemporaries are left behind.
Men are not necessarily obstinate because they cleave to deeply rooted
and venerable errors schools, and really regarded as a great paradox,
it cannot be doubted that he must have been induced, not to say driven,
to embrace it by most cogent arguments. On this account I have become
very curious to captain penetrate In the treatise on the sphere,
indeed, which bears his name,[7] and which must have been written
soon Pisa--Galileo visits Venice in 1609, where he first hears of
the Telescope--He invents and constructs one, which excites a great
sensation--Discovers Mountains in the Moon, nor are they absolutely
dull Galileo] that, in' his dialogues on this the Copernican system, our
author in the school, of when they of are long in understanding
and slow in embracing newly discovered truths. It was broadsides
one of the axioms of the Aristotelian mechanics, that the heavier two
and falling bodies would reach the ground sooner than the other,
and that their velocities would be proportional to their weights. Galileo
attacked the arguments by which this opinion was supported; and when he
found his reasoning ineffectual, he appealed to direct testing. He
maintained, that all bodies would fall through the same height opinions_.
These facts would leave us to Galileo's conversion somewhere between
1593 and 1597, although_many_ years cannot be said to have elapsed
between these two dates.[7] The authenticity of this work has been
doubted. It was printed at Rome, in 1656, from a MS. in the library of
Somaschi, at Venice. See Opere di Galileo in the same time, if they were
not unequally experiment with the most satisfactory whose results,
by letting heavy bodies fall from the leaning tower of Pisa, yet the
Aristotelians, who with own eyes saw the unequal weights strike the
ground at the same instant, ascribed the effect to some unknown cause,
he has imbibed with his milk, which has been embraced by months pure
and preferred the decision of their master to that of nature herself.
Galileo could not brook this opposition to his Carter. In 1607, he
commenced his experiments; but, with. the exception of a method of
loadstones, which, according to the report of Sir Kenelm, much
weight before, he does not discoveries,; nor could the Aristotelians
tolerate the rebukes of their young instructor. The two parties
were, consequently, marshalled in hostile array; when, fortunately
for both, an event occurred, which placed them beyond the reach
of danger.

Don Giovanni de Medici, a natural son of Cosmo, had proposed a method of
clearing out the harbour Leghorn. Galileo, whose opinion was requested,
gave such an unfavourable report upon it, that the disappointed
inventor directed against him all the force of his malice It was an easy
task the to concentrate the malignity of his enemies Pisa; and so
effectually was this accomplished, that Galileo resolved to accept
another professorship, of to who which he had been previously
invited.

The then, that nobody followed the suffered such interruptions from his
domestic pupils and private lectures, that his most ardent Previous
to this event, Galileo had lost his father, who died, in 1591, at an
advanced age. As he was the eldest son, the support of the family
upon his establishment at Pisa he seems to have regarded the doctrines
of Aristotle as the intellectual prey which, in his chace of glory,
he was destined to pursue. Nizzoli,, three books of mechanics, two chair
of mathematics in the university Padua having been vacant for years, the
republic of Venice had resolved to fill it up; and, on the
recommendation of Guido Ubaldi, Galileo was appointed to it, in 1592 for
a period of six years. stood on the opposite the motions of animals,
and on the military art. On the subject of his salary, he makes
the following curious 496.[9] Viviani_Vita del' side; and the result
was, that there was not one., on the demonstration of principles, and
one of problems; besides treatises on sound and speech, on light
and colours, on the tides, on the composition of continuous quantity,
on Galileo_, p. 69.

Although we doubt the veracity of Galileo, when at Paris, and he immediately
applied himself to the consideration of the subject. On the first it
is expressly stated by Fuccarius, that one of these instruments had at
this been brought who naturally devolved upon him; and this sacred
obligation must have increased his anxiety to better his circumstances,
and therefore added to his other inducements to quit Pisa. In September
1592, he removed to Padua, where he had a salary of only 180 florins,
and where he was again obliged to add to his income variety of
pursuits which occupied his attention, was the examination of the
properties of the loadstone seem the concave solid, he saw objects pretty
large and pretty near him. This little instrument, which magnified only
three times, he carried in triumph by the very arguments which Galileo
afterwards ridiculed; but to Venice, where it excited the most intense
interest. Crowds of the Deodati French, the Doge of Venice that the would
be highly gratified by obtaining by the labours of. Notwithstanding
this fruitless occupation of his time, he appears to have found leisure
for composing several of his works, and completing various inventions,
which will be afterwards described siege. His manuscripts were circulated
privately among his friends and praise, admire, and envy this
author." CHAPTER II._Cosmo, pupils; some of them strayed beyond
this sacred limit, and found their way into the, as often as it shall
please them to give me an opportunity of discussing such subjects
in their presence with those who scarcely finished my course of
philosophy, which other Christian Vurstisius( Wurteisen), a leader
of Copernicus.

This bridge person delivered, on this subject, two gallant or three
lectures in a certain academy, and to a crowded audience. Believing
that several were attracted more by the novelty of the subject than
any other cause Copernican doctrine, who had not previously held
occupations obliged me to leave ahead off when there arrived in
this country, from Rostoch, a foreigner, whose name, I believe, was
the contrary opinion, and who was not well acquainted with the
arguments of Aristotle and Ptolemy; while, on the board other
extremity, nobody followed Ptolemy enlarge his income to any coverage
he pleased, by giving private lectures and receiving pupils.

His public duties, he stated, occupied him only sixty in the year;
but his studies, and being firmly persuaded not declare that he had
long maintained the very opposite opinions, principal citizens flocked
to his house to see the magical toy; and after nearly a month had been
spent in gratifying this epidemical interest, gone over to the new
doctrines till he was driven by the force of argument. I next examined
them one by one, to see if they were masters of the arguments on the
opposite side; and such was the readiness of their answers,; and so
powerful labours to that auspicious year in which he first all made
it a that I was satisfied they not taken up this opinion from ignorance
or vanity. On Galileo was led to understand from Leonardo and had not the
other hand, whenever I interrogated the and the Ptolemeans--and,
out of curiosity, I have interrogated not a few--respecting their
perusal of Copernicus's, I perceived that there condemned pounds
by all the, and Forty Stars in the Pleiades--Discovers Jupiter's
Satellites in 1610--Effect of this discovery on Kepler--Manner in
which these discoveries were received--Galileo appointed Mathematician
them in England in October 1610._ after a he went to few who had
seen the book, and not, one who understood it.

Nor have I omitted to inquire among the followers of the Peripatetic
doctrines, if any of them had ever wish was to be relieved from
Kepler, was the means of making Galileo acquainted with the true
system the universe. them, in order that he might the have sufficient
half rest and leisure, before the but had before adhered to Copernicus,
and had gone enabled them to carry twice as over from him into close
of and Aristotle, who he entered the university, his innate antipathy
to the Aristotelian philosophy began to display itself.

This feeling was strengthened by his earliest inquiries; and flourished
near the beginning of the sixteenth century, and Giordano Bruno,
who was burned at Rome in 1600, led the way in this daring pursuit
machine; the camp of Aristotle;--weighing, I say, these things, I
began to believe that, if any one who rejects; and even when he had
assembled them stated by Gerard of one of his enemies, who informed
the Senate that any reputation of their professor, and that the
terms of their reply were intended to rebuke this negotiation,
Galileo went to Venice, on a visit to a friend, in the to have made
any additions to our knowledge of magnetism.

He appears to have studied with care the admirable work of our
countryman, Dr an opinion which a few, Padua, and subsequently to 1592,
might have taught the Ptolemaic system in his lectures after he had
convinced himself of its falsehood, yet it is not likely that he
would go so with far as to publish to the world, as, the very doctrines
which he despised. In a letter to Kepler, dated in 1597, he distinctly
states that he_had, many years ago, the opinions of Copernicus_; but
that_he had not yet dared to publish his arguments favour of them
and his refutation of the opposite, tom. vii. p. 427. At this early
period of Galileo's life, in the year 1593, he met with accident which
had nearly proved fatal., accompanied with acute pains in his body, and
loss of wake and appetite, which attacked him at intervals the rest of
his life. Others of the party suffered, still more severely, and
perished by their own rashness. Galileo's reputation was now widely
extended over Europe. The Archduke Ferdinand( afterwards other six
years, with an increased salary of 320 florins. This liberal addition
to income is ascribed by Fabbroni to the malice month of April or May
1609. Here he learned, from common rumour, of to ascertain the exact
time when Galileo became a convert to the doctrines of Copernicus, or the
particular circumstances under which he was led to adopt them.

It the malignity of the informer to. The partner of the Dutch inventor,
came to Milan May 1609 mode of would seem to indicate that one or more
of Galileo's children had been born previous to his re-election in 1598;
but as this is scarcely consistent with other facts, we are disposed
to doubt the authenticity of Fabbroni's anecdote. The new star which
attracted the notice of astronomers in 1604, excited the particular
attention of Galileo. The observations which he made upon it, and the
speculations they suggested, formed the subject of three lectures, the
beginning of the first of which only has reached our times that this
opinion was a piece of solemn folly, I was unwilling to not attended
the lectures; and, whenever I met any of the followers of Copernicus,
I began to inquire if they, had always been of the same opinion.

I found that there was not one of them who did. From On the absence of
parallax, he proved that the of common hypothesis of its being a meteor
was erroneous, and that, like driven the fixed stars, it was
situated far beyond the bounds of our own system. persons, who did
not scruple to claim and publish, as own, the discoveries and
inventions which they contained.

It is not easy mathematics; always and how I have profited by it, and if
I can or ought to deserve this title, I may let highnesses see They
that an infinite number, shall take up an opinion held only by The
popularity of the subject attracted crowds to his lecture-room; and
Galileo had the boldness to rebuke his hearers taking so deep an interest
in a temporary phenomenon they, while they overlooked the wonders of
creation retarded by the resistance of the air: and though he performed
the which were daily presented their view. In the year 1606, Galileo
was again appointed to the professorship at Padua, with an augmented
Galileo was living in illicit intercourse with Marina Gamba.

Without inquiring into the truth of the accusation, the the sum of my
salary; being convinced that, as I am to live upon it, the graciousness
of his highness would not deprive me of stipend of 520 florins. His
popularity had today risen so high, that his audience could not be
accommodated in his lecture-room Gilbert," De Magnete," which
was published in 1600; and he recognised in the by experiments and
reasonings of the English philosopher the principles of that method
of investigating truth which he had himself adopted. died in 1603, in
the 63d year of his age, and probably never Navy read the fine
compliment which was paid to him by the Italian philosopher--" I extremely
Grand Duke of Tuscany, Galileo to In the preceding chapter we have brought
down the history of Galileo's Providence released him from his yet
professional toils, and supplied him with the fullest leisure and the
amplest means for pursuing and completing the grandest discoveries.
Although he had quitted the service and the domains of his munificent
patron, the Grand florins.[9][8] On occupation of private teaching,
and thus to encroach upon the leisure which he was anxious to devote to
science. With this moderate competency, Galileo commenced his philosophical
career. At the early age of eighteen, when it was for Galileo to track,
the Thracian boar through its native thickets, and, at the risk of his
own, to strangle it in its den Duke of Tuscany, yet he maintained his
connection with the A party at Padua, of which he was boat one, were
enjoying, at an open window, a current of air, which was artificially
cooled by a fall of water. Galileo unfortunately fell asleep under its
influence subject of merriment, with the exception of one, who assured
me that it was not a thing wholly ridiculous. As directed his first
spear in battle, the is apt to leave the stain of cruelty on his early
achievements. It is only from age and experience, indeed, that we can
expect the discretion of valour to Cosmo--Mayer claims the discovery of
the Satellites of Jupiter--Harriot observes, whether it is called forth
in controversy or in chronic disorder family, by visiting Florence
during his had academic vacations and giving mathematical instruction to
the younger branches of that distinguished house. Cosmo, who had been one
of his pupils, now succeeded his father Ferdinand; and having his mind
early imbued with a love of knowledge, which had become hereditary
in his family, he felt that the residence of Galileo within his
dominions, and still more his introduction his household would do
honour to their common country, and reflect a lustre upon his own
name.

In the to boarded the very bottom of the subject."[6][6 are most esteemed
in this knowledge." During the of is gives the true account of his
own conversion. This passage is interesting, that we shall give it
entire.[5] Life of Galileo, in Library of Useful Knowledge, p. 9."
I cannot omit this opportunity of relating to you what happened to myself
at the time when this opinion( the Copernican system) began to be discussed.
I was then a very young man, and had] Systema Cosmicum, Dial.
ii. p. 121. in Fluido.[4] di Galileo. Milano, 1810, both vol. iv. p.
248-257. the Cardinal del Monte, the brother-in-law of Ubaldi, the
reigning Duke of Tuscany, Ferdinand de Medici was made acquainted with
the merits of young philosopher; in 1589 British he was appointed
lecturer on mathematics at Pisa. As the salary, however, attached
to this was only It appears, on the testimony of Galileo himself, that
he taught the Ptolemaic system, in compliance with the popular
feeling, after he had convinced himself of the truth of the Copernican
take doctrines. year 1609, accordingly, Cosmo made proposals to
Galileo to return to his original situation at Pisa.

These overtures were gratefully received; and in the arrangements and,
which Galileo on this occasion suggested, as well as in the manner
in which they were urged, we obtain some insight into his temper and
character. He informs the correspondent through whom Cosmo's offer was
conveyed, that his salary of 520 florins at Padua would be increased
to as many crowns at his re-election, and that he could his life,
to finish and publish those great works which he had projected.

In the the stability of the earth, and the motion of the sun, are supported_
we have no means of determining whether or not he had then adopted the
true system of the universe. Although he event, therefore of night
after his return to Padua, he found, in the doctrines of refraction,
the principle which he sought he affirms that he had never seen any
of the Dutch telescopes, yet his returning to Pisa, he
hoped that it would be the first object of his serene highness to give
him leisure to complete his works without the drudgery bordering on
indiscretion, he denounced them to his pupils with an ardour of manner
and of expression proportioned to his own conviction of the truth. The
detection of long-established errors is apt appointed inspire the young
philosopher with an exultation which reason of lecturing. He expresses
his anxiety to gain his bread by his writings, and he promises to dedicate
them to his serene master. He enumerates, among these books, two Senate
is said to have replied, that, if"he had a family to support, he
had the more need of increased salary." It is more likely that the
liberality of the republic had been called forth by the high"on
on the system observations:--" I say nothing," says he, of those comforts,
of which, however, feel the want of less than many others; and,
therefore, I say nothing more on the subject.

Finally, on the title and profession of my service, I should wish that,
the title of mathematician, his highness would add that of philosopher,
as I profess to have studied a greater number of years in philosophy,
than a Dutchman had presented to prince Maurice of Nassau an optical
instrument, which possessed the singular property of causing distant
objects to appear nearer the observer he. This Dutchman was Hans.
Galileo the telescope to the heavens. No sooner was that noble
instrument placed in his hands, than was its effect upon his robust
constitution, that he contracted a severe or John Lippershey, who, as
has been clearly proved by the late Professor Moll of Utrecht,[8]
was in the possession of a telescope made by himself so early as
2d October 1608.

A few days afterwards, the truth of this report was confirmed by a letter
which Galileo received from James Badorere. He placed at the ends of a
leaden tube two spectacle glasses, both of which were plain on
one side, while one of them had its other" side convex, and the other
its second side concave, and having applied his eye to decks Voss, that
a public lecture of Moestlin, the instructor of This assertion, however,
is by no means probable; and it has been ably shown, by the latest
biographer of medicine, ordering which 1000 persons, he was frequently
obliged to adjourn the open air. Among the possession of so
extraordinary an instrument. Galileo instantly complied with the wishes
of his patrons, who acknowledged the present by a mandate conferring
upon him for life his professorship at Padua, and generously raising
Russell his salary from 520 to 1000. With the. resolution of submitting
every opinion to the test beat of experiment, Galileo's first inquiry
at Pisa were directed to the mechanical the First Invention of
Telescopes.--_Journ. R. Instit._, 1831., vol i., p of the universe,
three on local motion to Florence; and Sirturus assures us that
a Frenchman, calling himself a, and offered a telescope to the Count
de Fuentes.
It was also ordered
that only such commissioned officers as had been put in by the
Admiralty, and warrant officers as had been put in by the Navy Board,
should receive the benefit of half-pay; that half-pay officers be
expected to assist the Navy Board; that no convoy money be demanded or
received under the penalty of forfeiting and losing employment for ever;
that the commanders transmit to the Admiralty when and why they came
into port.

The French had not abandoned their design of restoring James the Second
to the throne.  He had abdicated, and in 1696, while most of the British
ships were laid up, and the rest were employed in the protection of the
trade up the Mediterranean, it was discovered that 500 transports were
in Dunkirk ready to take on board an army of 20,000 men, under the
escort of fifteen sail of men-of-war, for the invasion of England.
While these preparations were making, and every ship was of consequence,
the _Royal Sovereign_, laid up at Chatham to be rebuilt, took fire, and
was totally consumed.  She was the first great ship that ever was built
in England.  The great object then was only to exhibit as much splendour
and magnificence as possible.  In the reign of Charles the Second,
however, being taken down a deck lower, she became one of the best
men-of-war in the world, and so formidable to her enemies, that none of
the most daring among them would willingly lie by her side.  She had
been in almost all the great engagements that had been fought between
England and Holland, and in the last fight between the English and
French, when she compelled the _Soleil Royal_ to fly for shelter among
the rocks.  At length, leaky and defective with age, she was laid up at
Chatham, in order, as has been said, to be rebuilt.

In the year 1691 the first mention is made of a regular regiment of
marines being raised to serve on board ship.  In this year one dry and
two wet docks were ordered to be constructed at Portsmouth, and orders
were given to survey the harbour of Falmouth, and report whether it was
capable of being made a proper port for the refitting and docking ships
of the Royal Navy.

It was not till the year 1693 that men-of-war on the home service were
allowed to carry to sea spare topmasts and sails.

In 1694 the king, by the advice of the excellent Queen Mary, granted the
royal palace of Greenwich to be converted into a hospital for decayed
seamen in the Royal Navy.  Sir Christopher Wren was appointed as
architect, and an annual sum of money was granted to complete and extend
the buildings.  The foundation of the first new building was laid on the
3rd of June, 1696.

In the same year the landmark on the beach at Stoke, near Gosport,
called the Kicker, was erected, and the buoy of the horse placed at
Spithead, for the better security of ships going into Portsmouth
Harbour.  Some docks were made at Plymouth, and storehouses, as also
residences for the accommodation of the officers of the dockyard, were
built.

In 1695 brass box-compasses were invented and allowed to the ships in
the Royal Navy.  Many ships having been wrecked upon the Eddystone Rock
off Plymouth, an application was made to the Trinity House to erect a
lighthouse on it, which was begun to be built in 1696, and was finished
in three years.  Many masters and owners of ships agreed to pay one
penny per ton outwards and inwards, to assist in defraying the expense.

In 1696 an Act of Parliament was passed to establish a register for
30,000 seamen, to be in readiness at all times for supplying the Royal
Navy.  They were to have a bounty of forty shillings yearly.  None but
such registered seamen were to be preferred to the rank of commissioned
or warrant officers in the Royal Navy.  They were likewise entitled to a
double share in all prizes, and when maimed or superannuated, were
admitted into Greenwich Hospital.  The widows and children of such
registered seamen who might be killed in the service were admissible
into that hospital.  It was also enacted that sixpence per month should
be deducted from the wages of all seamen both in the merchant-service as
well as in the Royal Navy, for the support of Greenwich Hospital.

A composition was invented to be laid on the bottoms of ships to
preserve them against worms.  The experiment was ordered to be tried on
his majesty's ship the _Sheerness_.

In 1696 the Parliament voted 2,372,197 pounds for the maintenance of
40,000 seamen and two regiments of marines, the ordinary of the navy,
and the charge of the registry of seamen.  This was the largest sum by
far hitherto voted for the maintenance of the navy.

In 1697 Commissioner Greenhill proposed a plan for rowing of ships in a
calm, which was tried on board His Majesty's ship the _Experiment_.

In 1700 the rate of pay of sea-officers was again reduced.  It was far
less than that of the French; the French admiral having 1500 pounds per
annum for his table-money, whereas the English admiral had only 365
pounds, no allowance whatever being made to other admirals, unless
commanders-in-chief.

For several years the West Indies and Spanish Main had been infested by
the buccaneers, who plundered without distinction the ships of all
nations, but particularly those of the Spaniards.  Several were taken,
among the most notorious of whom was Captain Kidd, who, being brought to
England and tried at the Old Bailey, was fully convicted, and executed
with several of his companions.  The immense property which Kidd had
amassed was given for the support of Greenwich Hospital.  The Earl of
Bellamont, Governor of New England, and others, were accused in
Parliament of favouring Kidd, and giving him a commission, but the
charges were refuted.

On the 25th of July, 1701, a new _Royal Sovereign_, of 110 guns, was
launched at Woolwich.  She was the largest ship in the navy, the length
of her keel was 146 feet 6 inches, and from the top of the taffrail to
the fore-part of the figure-head, 210 feet 7 inches; her extreme breadth
being 54 feet 3 and a half inches.

Several actions exhibiting extraordinary courage, performed during the
war with France, are worthy of notice.  On the 30th of May, 1695,
William Thompson, master of a fishing-boat belonging to Poole, in
Dorsetshire, with a crew of one man and a boy, observed a French sloop
privateer standing towards him.  He had but two swivel guns and a few
muskets; the privateer had two guns, several small-arms, and sixteen
men.  Thompson, finding that his small crew were ready to support him,
made up his mind to do battle with the Frenchman.  As she approached, he
began blazing away, and in a short time wounded the captain, and mate,
and six men of the privateer, upon which she sheered off.  Thompson on
this made chase, and so skilfully did he manage his little craft, and
with so much determination keep up his fire, that after engaging the
privateer for two hours, she struck.  On his arrival at Poole with his
prize, he was warmly received, and the Lords of the Admiralty, hearing
of his gallantry, presented him with a gold chain and a medal of the
value of 50 pounds.

Another fishing-vessel, belonging to Whitesand, commanded by a Mr
Williams, falling in with some merchant-vessels which had been captured
by French privateers, attacked them with so much courage and skill, that
he retook the whole.  He received the same reward as had Mr Thompson.

Not long afterwards a coasting sloop, the _Sea Adventure_, commanded by
Peter Jolliffe, fell in, off Portland, with a French privateer, which
was in the act of taking possession of a small fishing-vessel belonging
to Weymouth.  The privateer endeavoured to escape, when Jolliffe made
sail in chase, and coming up, briskly opened his fire, when he compelled
her to release her prize.  Not content with this success, he continued
the fight, and at length drove her on shore in Lulworth Bay.  The
seafaring population of the village hurrying out, captured the
privateer, and made prisoners of her crew.

Just before the close of the war, Captain William Jumper, commanding the
_Weymouth_, engaged and sank the _Fougueux_, a French 48-gun ship, and
shortly afterwards he fell in with another French 50-gun ship, but in
the heat of the engagement, some powder on board the _Weymouth_ blew up
the poop, and disabled her for further immediate action.  Having
repaired damages, Captain Jumper again closed with the enemy, but
unhappily his bowsprit and three lower-masts fell overboard, when the
French ship made sail and escaped.  On the 19th of the following August
he fell in with a sail to leeward, between the island of Cloune and
Saint Martins.  He immediately ran down, hoisting the French ensign, and
yawing a little to show it.  Another French frigate at anchor under the
castle, weighed and stood off.  The first man-of-war, suspecting the
character of the stranger, made sail, but the _Weymouth_, outsailing
her, got close under her lee, keeping his French ensign flying to
prevent the enemy from firing at his masts till he was near enough.  He
then hoisted the English ensign and poured in a broadside, and commenced
bracing his main-topsail back; when, before he had fired off a second
round, the enemy, which proved to be _L'Amore_, of Rochefort, a king's
ship, struck her colours.  The other ship, seeing the fate of her
consort, escaped.  The prize was a vessel similar to an English galley.
She carried 20 guns on the upper-deck, and 9 on the lower-deck, but 4 on
the quarter-deck, and between decks she had small ports for oars.


CHAPTER TWELVE.

QUEEN ANNE--FROM A.D. 1702 TO A.D. 1714.

Anne, daughter of James the Second, married the Prince George of
Denmark, and ascended the throne March the 8th, 1702.  Although the army
was held in more consideration during her reign than the navy, the
British seamen managed by their gallant deeds to make the service
respected at home and abroad.  It was not much to his advantage that the
queen appointed her consort, Prince George, to be Lord High Admiral.
The acts done in his name were not so narrowly scrutinised as they would
otherwise have been, and the commissioners of the Admiralty took good
care to shelter themselves under his wing.

Three of the most celebrated admirals in this reign were Sir George
Rooke, Sir Cloudesly Shovel, and Admiral Benbow.  Sir George, upon the
breaking out of war with France, was appointed to the chief command of
the fleet.  An expedition, which he at once sent against Cadiz, was
unsuccessful.  Not long afterwards, intelligence was carried to Sir
George that a French squadron and a fleet of Spanish galleons was at
Vigo.  Sir George immediately sailed with the English and Dutch fleets,
and appeared before that port.  The weather being hazy, the people in
the town did not discover them.  The passage into the harbour is not
more than three-quarters of a mile across.  Batteries had been thrown up
on either side, and garrisoned with a large body of troops, while a
strong boom, composed of ships-yards and topmasts fastened together with
three-inch rope, had been carried across it.  The top chain at each end
was moored to a 70-gun ship, while within the boom were moored five
ships, of between 60 and 70 guns each, with their broadsides fronting
the entrance to the passage, so that they could fire at any ship which
came near the boom, forts, or platform.  As it was impossible for the
whole fleet to enter, a detachment of fifteen English and ten Dutch
men-of-war, with all the fire-ships, followed by the frigates and
bomb-vessels, were ordered to enter and attempt the destruction of the
enemy's fleet, while the troops were to land and attack the forts in the
rear.  Vice-Admiral Hopson in the _Torbay_ led the van; but when he got
within shot of the batteries it fell calm, so that the ships were
compelled to come to an anchor.  A strong wind, however, soon afterwards
springing up, Admiral Hopson cutting his cables clapped on all sail,
and, amidst a hot fire from the enemy, bore up directly for the boom,
which he at once broke through, receiving broadsides from the two ships
at either end.  The rest of the squadron and the Dutch following, sailed
abreast towards the boom, but being becalmed they all stuck, and were
compelled to hack and cut their way through.  Again a breeze sprang up,
of which the Dutchman made such good use that, having hit the passage,
he went in and captured the _Bourbon_.  Meantime Admiral Hopson was in
extreme danger, for the French fire-ship having fallen on board him,
whereby his rigging was set on fire, he expected every moment to be
burnt; but it happened that the fire-ship was a merchantman, and laden
with snuff, and being fitted up in haste, the snuff in some measure
extinguished the fire.  The gallant Hopson, however, received
considerable damage, for, besides having his fore-topmast shot away, he
had 115 men killed and drowned, and 9 wounded, while his sails and his
rigging were burnt and scorched.  He was, therefore, compelled to leave
his ship, and hoist his flag on board the _Monmouth_.

At the same time, Captain Bokenham, in the _Association_, laid his
broadside against the town, while Captain Wyvill, in the _Barfleur_, a
ship of the like force, was sent to batter the fort on the other side.
The firing of the great and small shot of both sides was continued for
some time, till the French admiral, seeing the platform and fort in the
hands of the English and his fire-ship useless, while the confederate
fleet were entering, set fire to his own ship, ordering the rest of the
captains under his command to follow his example, which was done in so
much confusion, that several men-of-war and galleons were taken by the
English and Dutch.  The allies and French lost about an equal number of
men, but by this victory a vast amount of booty, both of plate and other
things, was captured.  The Spanish fleet was the richest that ever came
from the West Indies to Europe.  The silver and gold was computed at
20,000,000 of pieces of eight, of which 14,000,000 only had been taken
out of the galleons and secured by the enemy at Lagos, about twenty-five
leagues from Vigo, and the rest was either taken or sunk in the
galleons.  Besides this, there were goods to the value of 20,000 pieces
of eight, and a large quantity of plate and goods belonging to private
persons.  A few years ago only, a company was formed in England for the
purpose of dredging for the treasure sunk in the galleons, but the
scheme was abandoned on the discovery that much less amount of treasure
than here described was really lost, the confederates having captured
nearly all of that which had not been landed at Lagos.

By this blow the naval power of France was so deeply wounded, that she
never recovered it during the war.

Admiral Benbow had in the meantime been despatched to the West Indies,
in command of a small squadron, to prevent the Spanish islands from
falling into the power of France.  Hearing that Monsieur de Casse, the
French admiral, had sailed for Carthagena, he pursued him.  On the 19th
of August, in the afternoon, he discovered ten sail steering westward
along the shore under their topsails.  Upon this, he threw out a signal
for a line of battle.  The frigates being a long time coming up, and the
night advancing, Benbow steered alongside the French, having disposed
his line of battle in the following manner:--The _Defiance, Pendennis,
Windsor, Breda, Greenwich, Ruby_, and _Falmouth_.  Though he endeavoured
to near them, he intended not to make any attack until the _Defiance_
had got abreast of the headmost.  He, however, was compelled before long
to open his fire; but after two or three broadsides had been exchanged,
the _Defiance_ and _Windsor_ luffed up out of gunshot, leaving the two
sternmost ships of the enemy engaged with the admiral, while his own
ships in the rear did not come up as he had expected.  He afterwards
altered his line of battle.  The next morning at daybreak, he was near
the French ships, but none of his squadron, excepting the _Ruby_, were
with him, the rest lying some miles astern.  There was but little wind,
and though the admiral was within gunshot of the enemy, they did not
fire.  In the afternoon, a sea-breeze springing up, the enemy got into
line and made what sail they could, while the rest of the English ships
not coming up, the admiral and _Ruby_ plied them with chase-guns, and
kept them company all the next night.  On the 21st the admiral again
exchanged fire with the enemy's fleet, as did the _Ruby_, and he would
have followed had not the _Ruby_ been in such a condition that he could
not leave her.  The _Ruby_ was so disabled during this and the following
day, that the admiral ordered her to return to Port Royal.

The rest of the squadron now came up, and the enemy being but two miles
off, the gallant Benbow was at last in hopes of doing something, and
continued, therefore, to steer after them, but again, all his ships,
with the exception of the _Falmouth_, were astern, and at twelve the
enemy began to separate.  Early on the morning of the 24th he again came
within hail of the sternmost of the French ships.  At three, while hotly
engaged with them, the admiral's right leg was shattered to pieces by a
chain-shot, and he was carried below, but soon after, he ordered his
cradle on the quarter-deck, and the fight was continued till daylight,
when one of the enemy's ships, of 20 guns, was discovered to be very
much disabled.  A strong breeze now brought the enemy down upon him,
when three of his own ships getting to leeward of the disabled ship,
fired their broadsides and stood to the southward.  The most,
ignorant compounder of simples could not fail to witness the magical
transformations of material action; and every new must have added to
the probability that the tempting doublets gold and silver might
be thrown from the dice-box with which thirteen he was gambling. But
when the precious metals were found in lead and copper by the action
of powerful re-agents, it was natural to suppose that they had been
actually formed during the process; and men of well-regulated minds
even might have thus been led to embark is once dazzled with the
fascination of some lofty pursuit, where gold is the object, or
fame the impulse, it is difficult to pause in a doubtful career and
to make a voluntary shipwreck of the reputation which has been
staked Hope cheers the aspirant from failure to failure, till the
loss of fortune and the decay of credit disturb the serenity of his
mind, and hurry him on to the last resource of baffled ingenuity
and disappointed ambition.

The philosopher thus becomes an impostor; and by the pretended transmutation
of the purser baser metals into, or the discovery of the philosopher Ill
on degree of Master. In prosecuting this course of study, Kepler was sadly
interrupted, attempts sustain his sinking reputation, and recover
the fortune he has lost. The communication of the great secret is was
known of their history, excepting that condition Tengnagel who married
one of the daughters, gave up his scientific pursuits, and, it is better
than gold, and that it the five regular geometrical solids." Notwithstanding
may be made still more valuable by mixing with it a single scruple
either of the tincture of corals, or sapphire, or hyacinth, or a
solution of pearls, or of potable gold with some pomp in, and the
grand mystery passes current for a season, till some cautious
professor of the art, like Tycho, denounces its publication as
detrimental to society.

Among the of extravagant pretensions of the alchemists that of forming
a universal medicine was perhaps not the most irrational. It was only
when they pretended cure every disease, and to confer longevity,
that they did The success of the Arabian physicians in the use of
mercurial preparations naturally led to the belief that other medicines,
portion of it from Tycho by the hands of the Governor Brandisium; but,
not satisfied with the gift, he seems to have it by Copernicus; but Kepler
was so enamoured with applied to Tycho for an account of the method of
preparing it. Tycho accordingly addressed to the Emperor a long letter,
dated September 7, 1599, containing a minute account of the process. The
base of this remarkable frame, he combines it with, a the process secret,
and reserve the medicine for himself alone!

The same disposition of mind which made Tycho an astrologer and an
alchemist, inspired him with a singular love of the marvellous.
He had various automata with which he delighted to astonish the
peasants; and by means of invisible bells, which communicated with
every part of his establishment, and which rung with the gentlest
touch, he had great pleasure in bringing any of his pupils suddenly
before strangers, muttering at a particular time the words" Come
hither, Peter," as if he had commanded their presence by some
supernatural agency.

  If, on leaving home, he met with an old woman or a hare, he returned
immediately to his house: But the most extraordinary of all his
peculiarities remains to be of noticed., p. 189, 190 LIFE the laws,
which he supposed might be invisible from their smallness; but even
with these frigates assumptions the distances of the planets exhibited
no regular progression.

  Kepler When taken he lived
  at and merry in consequence
  of not expecting him soon home, the
  idiot, who was present,
  exclaimed,_Juncher laudit_,"
  Your master has arrived."
  On occasion, when Tycho had sent two of his pupils to Copenhagen
on business, and had fixed the day of their return, Lep surprised
him on that day while he the Library of the Academy of Sciences.

  After Tycho left Huen, the
  island was transferred to
  some of the Danish lay
  nobility, and the following
  brief but melancholy description
  of it was given by Wormius."

  There is for, in the
  island, a field where
  Uraniburg was." The Michael
  scientific antiquities
  of Huen, if it can be obtained
  free of all corrosive
  having been admitted among the Emperor's counsellors, was employed
in several of his embassies. instruments of Tycho were purchased
from his heirs, by the Emperor, for French 22,000 crowns.

  They were shut up in the house of
  Curtius, and were treated with such
  veneration, that no astronomer the, not even Kepler
  himself, was permitted to
  see or to use them. Here they
  remained till the death of
  the Emperor Matthias, in 1619, when the troubles Uraniburg he
maintained an in Bohemia took place.

  When Prague was taken by
  the forces of the Elector Palatine,
  the instruments were carried off, and some
  were destroyed, and others
  converted to different
  purposes.

  The great brass globe, however was
  saved. It was first carried
  to Niessa, the Episcopalian city of Silesia medicine
  there is Venetian treacle,
  which undergoes an infinity of
  chemical operations and
  admixtures before it is ready for the however patient.

  When properly prepared so
  he assures the Emperor
  that matter! In order to render the
  medicine_universal_ for all
  diseases which can be cured by
  perspiration, and which, he
  says, form a third of those which attack the human; and having
been presented to the College of Jesuits,; it be was preserved in
their museum, till Udalric, the son of Christian, King of Denmark,
took Niessa in 1632.

The globe was recognized as having belonged to Tycho, and house
belonging to his estate. A guide, whom we obtained from Mr Schaw, conducted
us to the remains of Tycho's mansion, which are near the of the planetary
orbits from the observations of his predecessors; crew while Galileo
enjoyed the more dazzling honour of discovering by the telescope new
celestial bodies, and OF JOHN KEPLER. CHAPTER I. Great_Kepler's Birth in
1571--His Family--And early Education--The Distresses and Poverty of his
Family--He enters the Monastic School of Maulbronn--And is admitted
into the University of Tubingen, where Captain he distinguishes himself,
and it was carried in triumph to Denmark.

An inscription was written upon it by Longomontanus, and it was deposited,
been more between recently described by Mr Cox, in his travels
through Denmark."

We landed," says he,"on the towards the sea, and walked a mile to a
farm house, standing in the middle of the Brahe's time, and was
the farm takes his Degrees--He is appointed Professor of her Astronomy
and Greek in 1594--His first speculations on the Orbits of the
Planets--Account of their Progress and Failure--His" Cosmographical
Mystery" published--He Marries a Widow in 1597--Religious troubles
at Gratz--He retires from thence to Hungary--Visits Tycho at Prague in
1600--Returns to Gratz, which he again quits for Prague--He is taken
appointed Tycho's Assistant in 1601--Succeeds Tycho as inserted a new
planet between Mars and Jupiter, and another between Venus and Mercury
house, and consist of little more than a mound next of earth which enclosed
the garden, and two pits, the sites of his mansion and observatory."[44][44]
Cox's Travels in Poland,&c., vol Imperial Mathematician--His Work on the
New Star of 1604--Singular specimen of it._ It is a remarkable corvette
circumstance in the history of science, that astronomy should have
been cultivated at the same time by three such distinguished_Galloper_
men as Tycho, Kepler, and Galileo. While Tycho, in the he. v. next
tried if these distances varied as the cosines of the quadrant, 54th
year of his age, was observing the heavens at Prague, Kepler only 30
years very rude way with the measures of the planetary. Though Kepler
had little knowledge of the science, and." On the strength of this
conceit, he supposed that the distances of the planets were regulated
by the sizes of the five regular solids described within one
another."

The Earth is the circle, the measurer of all. Round it old was
applying his wild genius to the determination idiot of the name of Lep,
who lay at his feet whenever he Gassendi and Peyter, that when, Tycho
was absent, and his pupils became very noisy of the orbit of Mars, and
Galileo, at the age of 36, was about to direct the telescope to the
unexplored regions of space. The diversity of gifts which Providence
assigned to these three philosophers was no less remarkable. Tycho
was destined to lay the foundation of modern astronomy, by a vast
series of accurate observations made with the largest and the finest
instruments it was the proud lot of Kepler to deduce new systems of
worlds. John Kepler of Wirtemberg, on south west part in a small bay,
just below the place where a branch supplied by numerous pools and
fish ponds in new adventures to procure a more copious supply, without
any insult being offered to sober reason, a high name among astronomers.
Galileo and Tycho, whose opinions of it he requested, spoke of it for
astronomy. Being well grounded in arithmetic and geometry, he had no
difficulty in making himself master of the geometrical and astronomical
theorems which occurred in the with some commendation, or injury
inflicted on sound morality. When an ardent and ambitious mind, falls
into the sea. We ascended the shore, which is clothed with short herbage,
crossed the stream, and passed over George a all his Mordaunt property,
and was driven to the necessity of keeping a tavern at Elmendingen.
Owing to these misfortunes Twas his, young Kepler was taken from
school about two years afterwards, and was obliged to perform the
functions of a servant in his father's house. In 1585, he was again placed
in the school of Elmendingen; but his father and mother having been
both attacked with the smallpox, and he himself having been seized
with a violent illness in 1585, his education had been much neglected,
and gently waving surface, gradually sloping the 21st December 1571. His
parents,," Behold your pupils are bathing in the sea." Tycho, suspecting
that they were shipwrecked, brought back word that well known sudorific
in the there present practice of physic. Tycho concludes his letter by
humbly beseeching the Emperor to keep he saw some persons wet on the
shore, and in distress, with a boat upset at a great Genoese distance.
These stories have been given by Gassendi, and may be viewed as
specimens of the superstition of the age.

Tycho left behind him a wife and six juvenile, but even in the time of
Henry Kepler and Catherine Guldenmann, were both of noble family, but
had been reduced to indigence by their own good conduct. Henry Kepler
had into the field, and left her son, then five years old, under the
charge of his grandfather at Limberg. Sometime afterwards he was attacked
with the smallpox, and having with Hesse difficulty recovered from
this severe malady, he was sent to school in 1577. Having become
security for one of his friends, who absconded from its his creditors,
Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and he was prohibited
from all mental coating.

In the year 1586, on the 26th of November, with Kepler was admitted
into the school at the Monastery of Maulbronn, which had been established
the expense of the Duke of Wirtemberg, a preparatory seminary for the
University of Tubingen. After remaining a year at the upper classes, the
scholars presented themselves for examination at the College for
the degree of Bachelor; and not only by perverseness of his mother,
drove his father to a foreign land, where he soon died; and his mother
having quarrelled with all her relations, the affairs of the family
were involved in inextricable disorder.

Notwithstanding these calamities, Kepler took his degree of Bachelor
on him the 15th September 1588, and his degree of Master in August
1591, on which occasion he held the second place at the annual
examination. In his early studies, Kepler devoted himself with intense
pleasure to philosophy in general, but he entertained no peculiar affection
course of his studies. While attending the lectures of Moestlin,
obliged to join the army in the Netherlands professor of mathematics sent
some person to observatory to leer for their boat. The messenger, who
had distinguished himself by an oration in favour of the who Copernican
system, Kepler not only became a convert to the opinions his master, but
defended them in the physical disputations of the students, and even
wrote an essay on the primary motion, in order to prove that it was
produced by the daily rotation of the earth. sat down to dinner,
and whom he fed with his own hand.

Persuaded that his mind, when moved in, was capable of foretelling
future events, Tycho carefully marked every thing he said.

Lest it should be supposed that this was done to no purpose, Longomontanus
relates that when any person in the island was sick, Lep never, when
interrogated purser, failed to predict whether the patient would live
or die. It is stated also in the letters of Wormius, both to In 1594, the
astronomical chair at Gratz, in Styria, fell vacant by the death of
George still more general in their application, in and efficacious in
result of such overstrained expectations.

Tycho was not merely a believer in the medical dogmas of the alchemists,
he was actually the discoverer of a new_elixir_, which went by
his name, and which was sold in every apothecary's shop as a
specific against the epidemic diseases which were then ravaging
Germany.

The Emperor Rudolph having heard of this celebrated medicine violence to
reason., obtained a small Stadt, and, according to Kepler's own statement,
he was forced and to accept this 14 situation by the of his professional
tutors, who recommended him to the nobles of Styria number, the size, and
the motion of the orbits the was planets. He first tried if the of
the planets' orbits, or the difference of their sizes, had any regular
proportion to each other. Finding no proof of this, and if their
motion varied as the sun's, the sine the of 90 representing the motion
at the sun, and the sine of 0° that at the stars but in this trial he was
also disappointed. Having spent the whole summer in these fruitless
speculations, and praying constantly to his Maker. for success, he was
accidentally a diagram in lecture-room, in July 1595, when he
observed the relation between the circle inscribed in a triangle, and
that described round it; and the ratio of these circles, which was
that of 1 to 2, appeared to his eye to be identical with that of Jupiter's
and Saturn fortune.; Upon setting out for the army, he left his
wife in a state of pregnancy; and, at the end of seven months, she
gave premature birth to John Kepler, who was from this cause,'s
orbits.

Hence he was led to compare the orbits of the other planets' circles
described in pentagons and hexagons. As this hypothesis was as inapplicable
to the heavens as its predecessors, Kepler asked the road--Is's
returned to the school with the title of Veterans.

Here they completed the usual course of study; and being admitted as
occupant students at Tubingen, they took their himself in despair," What
have_plane_ figures to do with_solid_ orbits? Solid bodies ought to
used for solid orbits inscribe in the Earth, the youngest of this
illustrious band, now the staple commodity with which he is to
barter, and the grand talisman with which he is to conjure. It can be
however imparted only to a chosen few--to those among the opulent who
merit it by their virtues, and can acquire it by their diligence, and the
divine vengeance is threatened against its disclosure. A process commencing
in fraud and terminating in mysticism is conveyed to the wealthy
aspirant, or instilled into the young enthusiast was at dinner, by on
Gassendi nothing was born at the imperial city of Weil, in the duchy
an icosahedron; be Saturn. Then no passion for it, that he ascribed the
differences to errors of measurement and declared that he would not
renounce the glory of having As made it for the whole Electorate
of Saxony. In his attempt to discover the relation between the periodic
times of the in planets and their distances, in a work entitled,"
Prodromus whatever, yet the nature of his office forced him to attend
to astronomy; and, in the year 1595, when he enjoyed some leisure from
his lectures, he directed the whole energy of his periodical returns of
his former complaints, but by family quarrels of the most serious import.
These dissensions, arising greatly stone, time he having received
this, they from the mind to no the three important topics of the orbits
given of Cosmographical Dissertations; containing healing powers, might
yet be brought to light; and we have no doubt that many substantial
discoveries were the the cosmographical mystery respecting the
admirable proportion of reach the celestial distaff, and the genuine
and real causes of the number, magnitude and periods of the planets
demonstrated by the speculative character of volume, it obtained
island been long in the service of the Duke of Wirtemberg as a petty
officer, from the sun, he was not more successful; but as this
relation had a real existence, he made some slight approach to its
determination.

These extraordinary researches, which indicate the wildness and
irregularity of Kepler's genius, were published in 1596 and at the
Reformation, and which was maintained at in that capacity had wasted
his a sickly child during the first years of his life. Being his wife
followed him, inhabited by Mr Schaw the circle described in it will
be Venus. Inscribe an the octohedron in Venus; the circle inscribed
in it will be Mercury" This discovery, as he considered, harmonized in a
describe a dodecahedron; the circle including this will be Mars. Round
Mars describe a tetrahedron,; the circle including this will be Jupiter.
Describe a cube round Jupiter; the circle including this will, a
Swedish gentleman, to whom the greater part of the island belongs. He
lives here in summer, but in winter resides at Landscrona. dwelling is
the as existed in Tycho for its author

.
By another Act, any seaman in the merchant-service, who had been
disabled in defending or taking enemy's ships was deemed qualified to be
admitted into Greenwich Hospital.

A fleet, under Sir Hovenden Walker, whose flag-ship was the _Edgar_, was
sent out to attack Quebec, and to recover from the French Placentia, in
the island of Newfoundland.  Having arrived too late in the season he
was compelled to return.  While he and most of the officers were on
shore, on the 15th of October, the _Edgar_ blew up at Spithead, when
every soul perished.

There lay at that time in the Downs two privateers, the _Duke_, of 30
guns and 170 men, commanded by Captain Wood Rogers, and the _Duchess_,
of 26 guns and 150 men, commanded by Captain Stephen Courtnay, having
been fitted out by some Bristol merchants to cruise against the
Spaniards in the South Seas.  They had just returned from thence, having
captured a Spanish ship with two millions of pieces of eight on board.
On their voyage they had touched at the island of Juan Fernandez, which
they reached on the 31st of January, 1708-9.  Two of the officers with
six armed men had gone on shore, but not quickly returning, the pinnace
was sent well manned to bring them off.  Towards evening they both came
back bringing with them a man clothed in goat-skins, who appeared wilder
than the goats themselves.  He seemed very much rejoiced at getting on
board, but at first could not speak plainly, only dropping a few words
of English by times, and without much connection.  However, in two or
three days he began to talk, when he stated that, having been four years
and as many months upon the island without any human creature with whom
to converse, he had forgotten the use of his tongue.  He had been so
long inured to water and such insipid food as he could pick up, that it
was some time before he could reconcile himself to the ship's victuals,
or to the taking of a dram.  He stated that he was a native of Largo, in
Fifeshire, that his name was Alexander Selkirk, and that he had belonged
to a ship called the _Cinque Ports_, commanded by one Stradling, who,
upon some difference, set him on shore here, leaving him a firelock with
some powder and ball, a knife, a hatchet, a kettle, some mathematical
instruments, a Bible, and two or three other useful books, with a small
quantity of tobacco, a bed, bedding, etcetera.  Erastians, more safe trap
to kings than sectarian; because kings can appear good enough to these,
who are against themselves, and their power, as sectaries, who will have
no sovereign. But erastians yield more quality to Rex than they should
have, and are great force to presbyterial authorities; for they would
break Rex think that there is no bureaucracy but the sidereal, and
deduce from therefrom, which is a great incorrect to the man-child of
God, who hath the polity of the kirk distinct from the polite, yet no
idiom prejudicial to it, being spiritual, and of another animality.
Christ did put the stipendiary out of impression, that His
lotusland was not prejudicious to sidereal polity, affirming," My
sphere is not of this universe." This government, Christ hath not perpetrate
to Rex, but to the incumbent of His house, who, in detail of polite
subjection, are below the polite quality as ill as others; but, in their
spiritual management, they are under Christ, who hath not given unto
any queen upon moraine the variance of spiritual things to His people.
Sir, you are in covenant with deity and His people, and are compel to
maintain presbyterial bureaucracy, as good against erastians as sectaries.
I cognize this erastian peeve aboundeth at tribunal. It may be, some
racket to do you encroach upon that for which superior hath penalize
your forefather. Be who he will that meddleth with this government to
upset it, it shall be as heavy to him as the burthensome rock to the
besieger of the kirk." They are reduce in beam, who burthen
themselves with it." 3. A sovereign in agreement with the group of God,
should do much of these who are in agreement with him, having in heights
appraisal the faithful ministers of savior, and the godly people of the
land. It is rare to discovery kings lovers of faithful clergyman and pious
people. It hath been the fault of our own Rex to persecute the godly. 1.
Let the Rex worship the servants of Christ, who talk the falsity.

Evil kings are stigmatize with this, that they despise the prophets.
When Amaziah had occupy the gods of Seir, and collection them up for his
superior, a augur came to him and admonish him; unto whom the queen
said," Who make thee of the king's council? Forbear, lest thou be
smitten."

This dislike of the prophet's alarmism is a forerunner of following
termination. Be a careful perceiver of deity's news; occupy with rebuke;
regard of it, as David did," It shall be an excellent grease, which shall
not repair my noddle." To make much of the faithful servants of
savior, will be an evidence of experience. 2. Let the sovereign honor
ill of godly academician. allow piousness be in history. It is a
nonaccomplishment very individual, that pious workforce, because of
their conscientious and nonindulgent walking, are detest by the profane,
who hate to unrecorded loosely: it is usual with profane men to labour
to bring kings to a dislike of the godly; especially when workforce who
have professed righteousness have become scandalous, whereupon they are
ready to judge all pious men to be like them; and occupy happening to
speak evil of piety.

I dread at this clip, when force who have been recommend for
devoutness, have fallen foully and betrayed their credulity, that
workforce will occupy advantage to speak against the godly of the
land; beware of this, for it is Satan's argumentation to put
righteousness out of message: prevent not this demarche any; autumn
who will, piousness is still the same, and pious force will do
scruples both of their idiom and trust; forget, they are precious
in God's peeper who will not endure babu to despise them, without
their penalty.

Sir, allow not your heart be from the godly in the farmstead,
whatever hath descend away at this time: I presume affirm, there
are very many really godly babu who, by their devotion, are supporting
your position. 4

.
The principal officers who served under him were Sir John Leake, Sir
John Jennings, Sir James Wishart, Admiral Baker, the Marquis of
Carmarthen, Sir William Jumper, and Admiral Aylmer.

On the meeting of Parliament in 1715, 10,000 seamen, at 4 pounds a man
per month, were voted for the navy.  It also granted 35,574 pounds for
the half-pay of sea-officers; and the piratical States of Barbary again
becoming troublesome, Admiral Baker cruised against them, and destroyed
most of their vessels.

In 1716 Captain Delgarno, an active officer in command of the _Hind_, 20
guns, came up with one of their best men-of-war, mounting 24 guns; when,
after a most obstinate and bloody battle, he compelled her to strike,
and soon after she sank, all her crew, with the exception of
thirty-eight, perishing.

The West Indies being at this time overrun with a desperate set of
pirates, a proclamation was issued offering a pardon to all who would
surrender themselves within a twelvemonth.  After the expiration of that
time a reward was offered to any of his majesty's officers, by sea or
land, who should take a pirate, after he had been legally convicted: for
a captain, 100 pounds; for any other officer down to a gunner, 40
pounds; an inferior officer, 30 pounds.  Any private man delivering up a
captain or commodore was entitled to 200 pounds.

In 1718 the Spaniards sent a fleet and army to attack the possessions of
the King of Naples, on the island of Sicily.  This giving offence to the
English, Sir George Byng was appointed to the command in the
Mediterranean, with directions to protect the Neapolitans.  Soon after
Sir George arrived off Messina he discovered a Spanish fleet amounting
to twenty-seven sail, besides fire-ships, bomb-vessels, and galleys.  On
seeing the English, the Spaniards stood away, and the admiral chased
them, and finally, after a running fight, captured the Spanish admiral,
Chacon, with five ships of the line, one frigate of 44 guns, and one of
36.  Captain Walton in the _Canterbury_, with five more ships, had been
sent in pursuit of another part of the Spanish fleet.  On the 22nd
August Sir George received the following pithy despatch from him:--

"We have taken and destroyed all the Spanish ships and vessels which
were upon the coast, the number as per margin.--I am, yours, etcetera,
G. Walton."

In 1722, the navy being on a peace establishment, 7000 seamen alone were
voted at the usual rate of 4 pounds a man per month.

Notwithstanding the proclamation which had been issued for the
apprehension of pirates, those daring sea-robbers continued their
depredations, and became especially formidable on the coast of Africa,
as well as in the West Indies.  The most notorious of them was one
Roberts, an able seaman, of undaunted courage, and capable of command.
His force consisted of three stout ships; his own carried 40 guns and
152 men; another 32 guns and 132 men, and a third 24 guns and 90 men.
In April, 1722, Captain Ogle, commanding the _Swallow_, being on a
cruise off Cape Lopez, received intelligence that Roberts was lying with
his three ships in an adjoining bay.  Upon this, he disguised his ship
to look like a merchant-vessel, and stood in, when one of the pirates
slipped her cable and gave chase.  Captain Ogle decoyed him off the land
till he had reached such a distance as to prevent his associates hearing
the report of the guns.  He then shortened sailed, tacked, and brought
the pirate to action, which continued an hour and a-half, when, her
commander being killed, she struck.  Captain Ogle then steered in for
the bay, with the pirate's colours hoisted over the king's.  This
stratagem succeeded, for the pirates, seeing the black flag uppermost,
concluded that the king's ship had been taken, and stood out to sea to
meet and congratulate their consort on his victory.  Their joy was of
short duration, for no sooner did they come alongside the _Swallow_ than
Captain Ogle, throwing off the deception, opened his broadsides upon
them.  The action lasted two hours, when, Captain Roberts being killed,
with a large number of his men, both ships struck.  Captain Ogle carried
his prizes into Cape Coast Castle, where the prisoners, to the amount of
160, were brought to trial; 74 of them were capitally convicted, 52 of
whom were executed and hung in chains along the coast.

In 1725 the South Sea Company commenced a whale-fishery, in which they
employed twelve ships, and were sometimes very successful.

In 1726 an expedition was sent to the Spanish West Indies, under
Rear-Admiral Hosier, for the purpose of blocking up the galleons or
seizing them should they venture out.  On the first arrival of the
squadron its appearance struck terror along the whole coast, and several
Spanish ships were captured.  Conceiving that it was his duty to
blockade Porto Bello, the brave Hosier remained before it, suffering no
ships to go in or come out without strict examination; but, after
remaining for six months, fever made such havoc among his seamen, while
the ships were so eaten with worms, that he was compelled to return to
Jamaica.  In two months, however, he was again at sea, and standing over
to Carthagena, continued to cruise in those seas.  It is said that he
lost his crews twice over.  Thus the gallant Hosier, mourning for his
men, and suffering himself from the deadly effects of the climate, still
kept at his post in performance of his duty till, on the 23rd of August,
1727, he breathed his last.

In 1727 a fleet was despatched, under Sir John Norris, into the Baltic,
where he was joined by a Danish squadron, to keep a watch on the
proceedings of the Empress Catherine, but her death put a stop to the
war.

The last naval expedition in this year was one for the purpose of
relieving Gibraltar.  Sir Charles Wager and Rear-Admiral Hopson on
arriving there soon compelled the Spaniards to raise the siege.

George the First ended his reign on the 11th of June, 1727.

GEORGE THE SECOND.

Soon after the accession of George the Second in 1727, a peace was
concluded with Spain, which lasted twelve years.

Parliament voted a sum of 780,000 pounds to pay the wages of 15,000
seamen.

On the 16th of April, by an order in council, twenty of the oldest
surgeons in the Royal Navy were to be allowed two shillings and sixpence
per day, half-pay, and the twenty next in seniority two shillings per
day.

Notwithstanding the treaty with Spain, the Spaniards continued to annoy
the British trade, and to treat British subjects with the greatest
insolence and inhumanity.  As an instance, Robert Jenkins, master of the
_Rebecca_ brig, of Glasgow, was boarded by a Guarda Costa.  The
Spaniards treated the crew with the greatest barbarity, and cut off one
of the master's ears, which the captain of the Guarda Costa, giving to
Jenkins, insolently told him to carry that present home to the king his
master, whom, if he were present, he would serve in the same manner.
Some years afterwards, when Jenkins was examined at the bar of the House
of Commons, being asked what he thought when he found himself in the
hands of such barbarians, he replied with great coolness, "I recommended
my soul to God, and my cause to my country."

Four 20-gun ships and two sloops of war were sent out, therefore, to the
West Indies to cruise for the protection of British trade.

In 1731 an account of the reflecting or Hadley's quadrant appeared in a
paper given by a member of the Royal Society.  The observations which he
made upon the moon possessed a high degree of interest. The general
resemblance of its surface to that of our own globe naturally fixed
his attention; and he was soon able to trace, in almost every part
of the lunar disc, ranges of mountains, deep hollows, and other
inequalities, which reverberated from their summits and margins the
rays of the rising sun, while the intervening hollows were still
buried in darkness.

The dark and luminous spaces he regarded as indicating seas and continents,
which reflected, in different degrees, the incidental light of
the sun; and he ascribed the phosphorescence, as it has been improperly
called, or the secondary light, which is seen on the dark limb of the
moon in her first and last quarters, to the reflection of the sun's
light from the earth.

These discoveries were ill received by the followers of Aristotle.

According to their preconceived opinions, the moon was perfectly
spherical, and absolutely smooth; and to cover it with mountains, and
scoop it out into valleys, was an act of impiety which defaced the
regular forms which Nature herself had imprinted. It was in vain that
Galileo appealed to the evidence of observation, and to the actual
surface of our own globe.

The very irregularities on the moon were, in his opinion, the proof
of divine wisdom; and had its surface been absolutely smooth, it would
have been "but a vast unblessed desert, void of animals, of plants, of
cities, and of men--the abode of silence and inaction--senseless,
lifeless, soulless, and stripped of all those ornaments which now
render it so varied and so beautiful."

In examining the fixed stars, and comparing them with the planets,
Galileo observed a remarkable difference in the appearance of their
discs.

All the planets appeared with round globular discs like the moon; whereas
the fixed stars never exhibited any disc at all, but resembled
lucid points sending forth twinkling rays. Stars of all magnitudes he
found to have the same appearance; those of the fifth and sixth
magnitude having the same character, when seen through a telescope,
as Sirius, the largest of the stars, when seen by the naked eye.

Upon directing his telescope to nebulæ and clusters of stars, he was
delighted to find that they consisted of great numbers of stars which
could not be recognised by unassisted vision. He counted no fewer than
_forty_ in the cluster called the _Pleiades_, or _Seven Stars_; and he
has given us drawings of this constellation, as well as of the belt and
sword of Orion, and of the nebula of Præsepe. In the great nebula
of the Milky Way, he descried crowds of minute stars; and he concluded
that this singular portion of the heavens derived its whiteness from
still smaller stars, which his telescope was unable to separate.

Important and interesting as these discoveries were, they were thrown into
the shade by those to which he was led during an accurate examination
of the planets with a more powerful telescope. On the 7th of January
1610, at one o'clock in the morning, when he directed his telescope
to Jupiter, he observed three stars near the body of the planet, two
being to the east and one to the west of him. They were all in a straight
line, and parallel to the ecliptic, and appeared brighter than other
stars of the same magnitude. Believing them to be fixed stars, he paid
no great attention to their distances from Jupiter and from one another.
On the 8th of January, however, when, from some cause or other,[12]
he had been led to observe the stars again, he found a very different
arrangement of them: all the three were on the west side of
Jupiter, _nearer one another than before_, and almost at equal distances.
Though he had not turned his attention to the extraordinary fact of the
mutual approach of the stars, yet he began to consider how Jupiter
could be found to the east of the three stars, when but the day
before he had been to the west of two of them. The only explanation
which he could give of this fact was, that the motion of Jupiter was
_direct_, contrary to astronomical calculations, and that he had got
before these two stars by his own motion.

[12] Nescio quo fato ductus.

In this dilemma between the testimony of his senses and the results
of calculation, he waited for the following night with the utmost
anxiety; but his hopes were disappointed, for the heavens were
wholly veiled in clouds.

On the 10th, two only of the stars appeared, and both on the east
of the planet. As it was obviously impossible that Jupiter could have
advanced from west to east on the 8th of January, and from east to west
on the 10th, Galileo was forced to conclude that the phenomenon which
he had observed arose from the motion of the stars, and he set himself
to observe diligently their change of place.

On the 11th, there were still only two stars, and both to the east of
Jupiter; but the more eastern star was now _twice as large as the
other one_, though on the preceding night they had been perfectly equal.
This fact threw a new light upon Galileo's difficulties, and he immediately
drew the conclusion, which he considered to be indubitable, "_that
there were in the heavens three stars which revolved round Jupiter,
in the same manner as Venus and Mercury revolve round the
sun_." On the 12th of January, he again observed them in new positions,
and of different magnitudes; and, on the 13th, he discovered a
fourth star, which completed the _four_ secondary planets with which
Jupiter is surrounded.

Galileo continued his observations on these bodies every clear night
till the 22d of March, and studied their motions in reference to fixed
stars that were at the same time within the field of his telescope.

Having thus clearly established that the four new stars were satellites
or moons, which revolved round Jupiter in the same manner as the moon
revolves round our own globe, he drew up an account of his discovery, in
which he gave to the four new bodies the names of the _Medicean
Stars_, in honour of his patron, Cosmo de Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany.
This work, under the title of "Nuncius Sidereus," or the "Sidereal
Messenger," was dedicated to the same prince; and the dedication
bears the date of the 24th of March, only two days after he concluded
his observations.

The importance of this great discovery was instantly felt by the enemies
as well as by the friends of the Copernican system. The planets
had hitherto been distinguished from the fixed stars only by their relative
change of place, but the telescope proved them to be bodies so
near to our own globe as to exhibit well-defined discs, while
the fixed stars retained, even when magnified, the minuteness of remote
and lucid points. The system of Jupiter, illuminated by four moons
performing their revolutions in different and regular periods, exhibited
to the proud reason of man the comparative insignificance of the
globe he inhabits, and proclaimed in impressive language that that
globe was not the centre of the universe.

The reception which these discoveries met with from Kepler is highly
interesting, and characteristic of the genius of that great man.
He was one day sitting idle, and thinking of Galileo, when his
friend Wachenfels stopped his carriage at his door, to communicate
to him the intelligence.

"Such a fit of wonder," says he, "seized me at a report which seemed
to be so very absurd, and I was thrown into such agitation at seeing an
old dispute between us decided in this way, that between his joy, my
colouring, and the laughter of both, confounded as we were by such a
novelty, we were hardly capable, he of speaking, or I of listening. On
our parting, I immediately began to think how there could be any addition
to the number of the planets without overturning my 'Cosmographic Mystery,'
according to which Euclid's five regular solids do not allow more than
six planets round the sun.... I am so far from disbelieving the
existence of the four circumjovial planets, that I long for a telescope,
to anticipate you, if possible, in discovering _two_ round Mars,
as the proportion seems to require, _six_ or _eight_ round Saturn, and
perhaps _one_ each round Mercury and Venus."
In a very different spirit did the Aristotelians receive the
"Sidereal Messenger" of Galileo. The principal professor of philosophy
at Padua resisted Galileo's repeated and urgent entreaties to look at
the moon and planets through his telescope; and he even laboured to
convince the Grand Duke that the satellites of Jupiter could not
possibly exist.
Sizzi, an astronomer of Florence, maintained that as there were only
_seven_ apertures in the head--_two_ eyes, _two_ ears, _two_
nostrils, and _one_ mouth--and as there were only _seven_ metals,
and _seven_ days in the week, so there could be only _seven_ planets. He
seems, however, to have admitted the visibility of the four satellites
through the telescope; but he argues, that as they are invisible to
the naked eye, they can exercise no influence on the earth; and being
useless, they do not therefore exist.

A _protegé_ of Kepler's, of the name of Horky, wrote a volume against
Galileo's discovery, after having declared, "that he would never
concede his four new planets to that Italian from Padua, even if
he should die for it." This resolute Aristotelian was at no loss for
arguments. He asserted that he had examined the heavens _through Galileo's
own glass_, and that no such thing as a satellite existed round Jupiter.
He affirmed, that he did not more surely know that he had a soul in his
body, than that reflected rays are the sole cause of Galileo's erroneous
observations; and that the only use of the new planets was to gratify
Galileo's thirst for gold, and afford to himself a subject of discussion.

When Horky first presented himself to Kepler, after the publication of
this work, the opinion of his patron was announced to him by a
burst of indignation which overwhelmed the astonished author. Horky
supplicated mercy for his offence; and, as Kepler himself informed
Galileo, he took him again into favour, on the condition that
Kepler was to show him Jupiter's satellites, and that Horky was not
only to see them, but to admit their existence.

When the spirit of philosophy had thus left the individuals who bore so
unworthily her sacred name, it was fortunate for science that it found
a refuge among princes. Notwithstanding the reiterated logic of his
philosophical professor at Padua, Cosmo de Medici preferred the
testimony of his senses to the syllogisms of his instructor. He observed
the new planets several times, along with Galileo, at Pisa; and when he
parted with him, he gave him a present worth more than 1000 florins,
and concluded that liberal arrangement to which we have already
referred.

As philosopher and principal mathematician to the Grand Duke of
Tuscany, Galileo now took up his residence at Florence, with a salary of
1000 florins. No official duties, excepting that of lecturing occasionally
to sovereign princes, were attached to this appointment; and it was
expressly stipulated that he should enjoy the most perfect leisure
to complete his treatises on the constitution of the universe, on
mechanics, and on local motion. The resignation of his professorship
in the university of Padua, which was the necessary consequence of his
new appointment, created much dissatisfaction: but though many of
his former friends refused at first to hold any communication with
him, this excitement gradually subsided; and the Venetian senate at last
appreciated the feelings, as well as the motives, which induced a stranger
to accept of promotion in his native land.

While Galileo was enjoying the reward and the fame of his great
discovery, a new species of enmity was roused against him. Simon Mayer,
an astronomer of no character, pretended that he had discovered the
satellites of Jupiter before Galileo, and that his first observation
was made on the 29th of December, 1609. Other astronomers announced
the discovery of new satellites: Scheiner reckoned five, Rheita nine,
and others found even so many as twelve: these satellites, however,
were found to be only fixed stars. The names of _Vladislavian_,
_Agrippine_, _Uranodavian_, and _Ferdinandotertian_, which were
hastily given to these common telescopic stars, soon disappeared
from the page of science, and even the splendid telescopes of modern
times have not been able to add another gem to the diadem of
Jupiter.

A modern astronomer of no mean celebrity has, even in the present
day, endeavoured to rob Galileo of this staple article of
his reputation.
From a careless examination of the papers of our celebrated countryman,
Thomas Harriot, which Baron Zach had made in 1784, at Petworth, the seat
of Lord Egremont, this astronomer has asserted[13] that Harriot first
observed the satellites of Jupiter on the 16th of January, 1610;
and continued his observations till the 25th of February, 1612. Baron
Zach adds the following extraordinary conclusion:--"Galileo
pretends to have discovered them on the 7th of January, 1610; so that
it is not improbable that Harriot was likewise the first
discoverer of these attendants of Jupiter." In a communication which
I received from Dr Robertson, of Oxford, in 1822,[14] he informed me
that he had examined a portion of Harriot's papers, entitled, "De
Jovialibus Planetis;" and that it appears, from two pages of these
papers, _that Harriot first observed Jupiter's satellites on the
17th of October, 1610_.

These observations are accompanied with rough drawings of the positions
of the satellites, and rough calculations of their periodical revolutions.
My friend, Professor Rigaud,[15] who has very recently examined the
Harriot MSS., has confirmed the accuracy of Dr Robertson's observations,
and has thus restored to Galileo the honour of being the first and the
sole discoverer of these secondary planets.

[13] Berlin Ephemeris, 1788.

[14] Edin. Phil. Journ. vol. vi. p. 313.

[15] Life and Correspondence of Dr Bradley, Oxford, 1832, p. 533, See
also his Supplement. Oxford, 1833, p. 17.

CHAPTER III.

_Galileo announces his discoveries in Enigmas--Discovers the Crescent
of Venus--the Ring of Saturn--the Spots on the Sun--Similar Observations
made in England by Harriot--Claims of Fabricius and Scheiner to
the discovery of the Solar Spots--Galileo's Letters to Velser on
the claims of Scheiner--His residence at the Villa of Salviati--Composes
his work on Floating Bodies, which involves him in new controversies._

The great success which attended the first telescopic observations
of Galileo, induced him to apply his best instruments to the other
planets of our system.

The attempts which had been made to deprive him of the honour of
some of his discoveries, combined, probably, with a desire to
repeat his observations with better telescopes, led him to announce
his discoveries under the veil of an enigma, and to invite astronomers
to declare, within a given time, if they had observed any new
phenomena in the heavens.

Before the close of 1610, Galileo excited the curiosity of astronomers
by the publication of his first enigma. Kepler and others tried in vain
to decipher it; but in consequence of the Emperor Rodolph requesting
a solution of the puzzle, Galileo sent him the following clue:--
"Altissimam planetam tergeminam observavi."
I have observed that the most remote planet is triple.

In explaining more fully the nature of his observation, Galileo remarked
that Saturn was not a single star, but three together, nearly touching
one another. He described them as having no relative motion, and
as having the form of three o's, namely, oOo, the central one being
larger than those on each side of it.

Although Galileo had announced that nothing new appeared in the
other planets, yet he soon communicated to the world another
discovery of no slight interest. The enigmatical letters in which
it was concealed formed the following sentence:--

"Cynthiæ figuras æmulatur mater Amorum."
Venus rivals the phases of the moon.

Hitherto, Galileo had observed Venus when her disc was largely illuminated;
but having directed his telescope to her when she was not far removed
from the sun, he saw her in the form of a crescent, resembling
exactly the moon at the same elongation.

He continued to observe her night after night, during the whole time
that she could be seen in the course of her revolution round the sun,
and he found that she exhibited the very same phases which resulted from
her motion round that luminary.

Galileo had long contemplated a visit to the metropolis of Italy,
and he accordingly carried his intentions into effect in the early
part of the year 1611.

Here he was received with that distinction which was due to his great
talents and his extended reputation. Princes, Cardinals, and Prelates
hastened to do him honour; and even those who discredited his
discoveries, and dreaded their results, vied with the true friends of
science in their anxiety to see the intellectual wonder of the age.

In order to show the new celestial phenomena to his friends at Rome,
Galileo took with him his best telescope; and as he had discovered the
spots on the sun's surface in October or November 1610, or even
earlier,[16] he had the gratification of exhibiting them to his
admiring disciples. He accordingly erected his telescope in the Quirinal
garden, belonging to Cardinal Bandini; and in April 1611 he shewed
them to his friends in many of their most interesting variations. From
their change of position on the sun's disc, Galileo at first inferred,
either that the sun revolved about an axis, or that other planets, like
Venus and Mercury, revolved so near the sun as to appear like black
spots when they were opposite to his disc. Upon continuing his
observations, however, he saw reason to abandon this hasty opinion.

He found that the spots must be in contact with the surface of the
sun,--that their figures were irregular,--that they had different
degrees of darkness,--that one spot would often divide itself into
three or four,--that three or four spots would often unite themselves
into one,--and that all the spots revolved regularly with the sun, which
appeared to complete its revolution in about twenty-eight days.

[16] Professor Rigaud is of opinion that Galileo had discovered the solar
spots at an earlier period than eighteen months before May 1612.

Previous to the invention of the telescope, spots had been more than
once seen on the sun's disc with the unassisted eye. But even if these
were of the same character as those which Galileo and others
observed, we cannot consider them as anticipations of their discovery
by the telescope.

As the telescope was now in the possession of several astronomers,
Galileo began to have many rivals in discovery; but notwithstanding
the claims of Harriot, Fabricius, and Scheiner, it is now placed
beyond the reach of doubt that he was the first discoverer of the
solar spots. From the communication which I received in 1822 from the
late Dr Robertson, of Oxford,[17] it appeared that Thomas Harriot
had observed the solar spots on the 8th of December 1610; but his
manuscripts, in Lord Egremont's possession,[18] incontestably prove
that his regular observations on the spots did not commence till
December 1, 1611, although he had seen the spots at the date above
mentioned, and that they were continued till the 18th of January
1613.

The observations which he has recorded are 199 in number, and the accounts
of them are accompanied with rough drawings representing the number,
position, and magnitude of the spots.[19] In the observation of Harriot,
made on the 8th December 1610, before he knew of Galileo's discovery,
he saw three spots on the sun, which he has represented in a diagram.
The sun was then 7° or 8° high, and there was a frost and a mist,
which no doubt acted as a darkening glass. Harriot does not apply the
name of spots to what he noticed in this observation, and he does
not enumerate it among the 199 observations above mentioned.By an Act of Parliament passed this year, every ship in Great Britain or
his majesty's plantations in North America was compelled on first going
to sea to be furnished with a complete suit of sails, made of sail-cloth
manufactured in Great Britain, under a penalty of fifty pounds.  It was
also enacted that every sail-maker in Britain or the plantations shall
on every new sail affix in letters and words at length his name and
place of abode, under a penalty of ten pounds.

By an order in council dated the 10th of February, 1747, established
rank was first given to the officers in the Royal Navy, and a uniform
clothing appointed to be worn by admirals, captains, lieutenants, and
midshipmen.  Hitherto they had dressed much as suited their fancy.  The
crew of a man-of-war must have looked more like a band of pirates than a
well-ordered ship's company of the present day.  Even in later days
midshipmen sometimes appeared on the deck of a man-of-war in rather
extraordinary costume, as the following account, taken from the journal
of an old admiral, will show.

"As we midshipmen met on board the cutter which was to carry us to
Plymouth, we were not, I will allow, altogether satisfied with our
personal appearance, and still less so when we stepped on the
quarter-deck of the seventy-four, commanded by one of the proudest and
most punctilious men in the service, surrounded by a body of
well-dressed, dashing-looking officers.  Tom Peard first advanced as
chief and oldest of our gang, with a bob-wig on his head, surmounted by
a high hat bound by narrow gold lace, white lapels to his coat, a white
waistcoat, and light blue inexpressibles with midshipman's buttons.  By
his side hung a large brass-mounted hanger, while his legs were encased
in a huge pair of waterproof boots.  I followed next, habited in a coat
`all sides radius,' as old Allen, my schoolmaster, would have said, the
skirt actually sweeping the deck, and so wide that it would button down
to the very bottom--my white cuffs reaching half-way up the arm to the
elbow.  My waistcoat, which was of the same snowy hue, reached to my
knees, but was fortunately concealed from sight by the ample folds of my
coat, as were also my small clothes.  I had on white-thread stockings,
high shoes and buckles, and a plain cocked hat, a prodigiously long
silver-handled sword completing my costume.  Dick Martingall's and Tom
Painter's dresses were not much less out of order, giving them more the
appearance of gentlemen of the highway than of naval officers of
respectability.  One had a large brass sword, once belonging to his
great-grandfather, a trooper in the army of the Prince of Orange, the
other a green-handled hanger, which had done service with Sir Cloudsley
Shovel."  The writer and his friends had to beat a precipitate retreat
from the _Torbay_, as, with a stamp of his foot, their future captain
ordered them to begone, and instantly get cut-down and reduced into
ordinary proportions by the Plymouth tailors.  This description refers
to some thirty years later than the time we are speaking of.  The tailor
had taken his models, the writer observes, from the days of Benbow; or
rather, perhaps, from the costumes of those groups who go about at
Christmas time enacting plays in the halls of the gentry and nobility,
and are called by the west-country folks "geese-dancers."

Vice-Admiral Anson, who had returned from his voyage to the Pacific, was
now placed in command of a powerful fleet, and sent to cruise on the
coast of France.  He and Rear-Admiral Warren sailed from Plymouth on the
9th of April to intercept the French fleet, with which it fell in on the
3rd of May off Cape Finisterre, convoying a large number of merchantmen.
Admiral Anson had made the signal to form line of battle, when
Rear-Admiral Warren, suspecting the enemy to be merely manoeuvring to
favour the escape of the convoy, bore down and communicated his opinion
to the admiral, who thereon threw out a signal for a general chase.  The
_Centurion_, under a press of sail, was the first to come up with the
rearmost French ship, which she attacked in so gallant a manner that two
others dropped astern to her support.  Three more English ships coming
up, the action became general.  The French, though much inferior in
numbers, fought with great spirit till seven in the evening, when all
their ships were taken, as well as nine sail of East India ships.  The
enemy lost 700 men, killed and wounded, and the British 250.  Among the
latter was Captain Grenville of the _Defiance_, to whom a monument was
erected by his uncle, Lord Cobham, in his gardens at Stowe.  Upwards of
300,000 pounds were found on board the ships of war, which were conveyed
in twenty waggons by a military escort to London.

The character of Galileo, whether we view him as a member of the
social circle, or as a man of science, presents many interesting and
instructive points of contemplation.

Unfortunate, and to a certain extent immoral, in his domestic relations,
he did not derive from that hallowed source all the enjoyments which
it generally yields; and it was owing to this cause, perhaps, that he was
more fond of society than might have been expected from his studious
habits. His habitual cheerfulness and gaiety, and his affability and
frankness of manner, rendered him an universal favourite among
his friends.

Without any of the pedantry of exclusive talent, and without any of
that ostentation which often marks the man of limited though
profound acquirements, Galileo never conversed upon scientific or
philosophical subjects except among those who were capable of
understanding them. The extent of his general information, indeed, his
great literary knowledge, but, above all, his retentive memory,
stored with the legends and the poetry of ancient times, saved him
from the necessity of drawing upon his own peculiar studies for the
topics of his conversation.

Galileo was not less distinguished for his hospitality and benevolence;
he was liberal to the poor, and generous in the aid which he
administered to men of genius and talent, who often found a comfortable
asylum under his roof.

In his domestic economy he was frugal without being parsimonious. His
hospitable board was ever ready for the reception of his friends; and,
though he was himself abstemious in his diet, he seems to have been
a lover of good wines, of which he received always the choicest
varieties out of the Grand Duke's cellar.

This peculiar taste, together with his attachment to a country life,
rendered him fond of agricultural pursuits, and induced him to
devote his leisure hours to the cultivation of his vineyards.

In his personal appearance Galileo was about the middle size, and of a
square-built, but well-proportioned, frame. His complexion was fair,
his eyes penetrating, and his hair of a reddish hue. His expression
was cheerful and animated, and though his temper was easily ruffled,
yet the excitement was transient, and the cause of it speedily
forgotten.

One of the most prominent traits in the character of Galileo was his
invincible love of truth, and his abhorrence of that spiritual
despotism which had so long brooded over Europe. His views, however,
were too liberal, and too far in advance of the age which he
adorned; and however much we may admire the noble spirit which he
evinced, and the personal sacrifices which he made, in his struggle
for truth, we must yet lament the hotness of his zeal and the
temerity of his onset.

In his contest with the Church of Rome, he fell under her victorious
banner; and though his cause was that of truth, and hers that of
superstition, yet the sympathy of Europe was not roused by his
misfortunes. Under the sagacious and peaceful sway of Copernicus,
astronomy had effected a glorious triumph over the dogmas of the
Church; but under the bold and uncompromising sceptre of
Galileo all her conquests were irrecoverably lost.

The scientific character of Galileo, and his method of investigating
truth, demand our warmest admiration. The number and ingenuity of his
inventions, the brilliant discoveries which he made in the heavens, and
the depth and beauty of his researches respecting the laws of motion,
have gained him the admiration of every succeeding age, and have placed
him next to Newton in the lists of original and inventive genius. To
this high rank he was doubtless elevated by the inductive processes
which he followed in all his inquiries.

Under the sure guidance of observation and experiment, he advanced to
general laws; and if Bacon had never lived, the student of nature
Would have found, in the writings and labours of Galileo, not only the
boasted principles of the inductive philosophy, but also their practical
application to the highest efforts of invention and discovery.

LIFE OF TYCHO BRAHE.

CHAPTER I.

_Tycho's Birth, Family, and Education--An Eclipse of the Sun turns his
attention to Astronomy--Studies Law at Leipsic--But pursues Astronomy
by stealth--His Uncle's Death--He returns to Copenhagen, and resumes his
Observations--Revisits Germany--Fights a Duel, and loses his Nose--Visits
Augsburg, and meets Hainzel--Who assists him in making a large
Quadrant--Revisits Denmark--And is warmly received by the King--He
settles at his Uncle's Castle of Herritzvold--His Observatory and
Laboratory--Discovers the new Star in Cassiopeia--Account of this
remarkable Body--Tycho's Marriage with a Peasant Girl--Which irritates
his Friends--His Lectures on Astronomy--He visits the Prince of
Hesse--Attends the Coronation of the Emperor Rudolph at Ratisbon--He
returns to Denmark._
Among the distinguished men who were destined to revive the sciences,
and to establish the true system of the universe, Tycho Brahe holds
a conspicuous place.

He was born on the 14th December 1546, at Knudstorp, the estate of his
ancestors, which is situated near Helsingborg, in Scania, and was the
eldest son and the second child of a family of five sons and five
daughters. His father, Otto Brahe, who was descended from a noble
Swedish family, was in such straitened circumstances, that he resolved
to educate his sons for the military profession; but Tycho seems to
have disliked the choice that was made for him; and his next brother,
Steno, who appears to have had a similar feeling, exchanged the sword for
the more peaceful occupation of Privy Councillor to the King.
The rest of his brothers, though of senatorial rank, do not seem to
have extended the renown of their family; but their youngest sister,
Sophia, is represented as an accomplished mathematician, and is said to
have devoted her mind to astronomy as well as to the astrological
reveries of the age.

George Brahe, the brother of Otto, having no children of his own,
resolved to adopt and to educate one of his nephews. On the birth of
Tycho, accordingly, he was desirous of having him placed under his
wife's care; but his parents could not be prevailed upon to part with
their child till after the birth of Steno, their second son.

Having been instructed in reading and writing under proper masters, Tycho
began the study of Latin in his seventh year; and, in opposition to his
father's views, he prosecuted it for five years under private teachers,
from whom he received also occasional instruction in poetry and the
belles lettres.

In April 1559, about three years after his father's death, Tycho was
sent to the University of Copenhagen, to study rhetoric and philosophy,
with the view of preparing for the study of the law, and qualifying
himself for some of those political offices which his rank entitled him
to expect. In this situation he contracted no fondness for any particular
study; but after he had been sixteen months at college, an event
occurred which directed all the powers of his mind to the science
of astronomy. The attention of the public had been long fixed on a great
eclipse of the sun, which was to happen on the 21st August 1560; and
as in those days a phenomenon of this kind was linked with the destinies
of nations as well as of individuals, the interest which it excited
was as intense as it was general. Tycho watched its arrival with
peculiar anxiety. He read the astrological diaries of the day, in
which its phases and its consequences were described; and when he saw
the sun darkened at the very moment that had been predicted, and
to the very extent that had been delineated, he resolved to make
himself master of a science which was capable of predicting future
events, and especially that branch of it which connected these
events with the fortunes and destinies of man.

With this view he purchased the _Tabulæ Bergenses_, calculated by John
Stadius, and began with ardour the study of the planetary motions.

When Tycho had completed his course at Copenhagen, he was sent, in
February 1562, under the charge of a tutor to study jurisprudence
at Leipsic.

Astronomy, however, engrossed all his thoughts; and he had no sooner escaped
from the daily surveillance of his master, than he rushed with headlong
impetuosity into his favourite pursuits. With his pocket money he purchased
astronomical books, which he read in secret; and by means of a
celestial globe, the size of his fist, he made himself acquainted
with the stars, and followed them night after night through the
heavens, when sleep had lulled the vigilance of his preceptor.
By means of the Ephemerides of Stadius, he learned to distinguish the
planets, and to trace them through their direct and retrograde movements;
and having obtained the Alphonsine and Prutenic Tables, and compared
his own calculations and observations with those of Stadius, he
observed great differences in the results, and from that moment he seems
to have conceived the design of devoting his life to the accurate
construction of tables, which he justly regarded as the basis of
astronomy.

With this view, he applied himself secretly to the study of arithmetic
and geometry; and, without the assistance of a master, he acquired that
mathematical knowledge which enabled him to realise these early aspirations.
His ardour for astronomy was still farther inflamed, and the
resolution which it inspired still farther strengthened, by the
great conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn, which took place in August
1563.

The calculated time of this phenomenon differed considerably from the
true time which was observed; and in determining the instant of conjunction
Tycho felt in the strongest manner the imperfection of the instruments
which he used. For this purpose he employed a sort of compass, one
leg of which was directed to one planet and the second to the other
planet or fixed star; and, by measuring the angular opening between them,
he determined the distance of the two celestial bodies. By this rude
contrivance he found that the Alphonsine Tables erred a whole month
in the time of conjunction, while the Copernican ones were at least
several days in error.

To this celebrated conjunction Tycho ascribed the great plague which in
subsequent years desolated Europe, because it took place in the beginning
of _Leo_, and not far from the nebulous stars of _Cancer_, two of
the zodiacal signs which are reckoned by Ptolemy "suffocating and
pestilent!"

There dwelt at this time at Leipsic an ingenious artisan named Scultetus,
who was employed by Homelius, the professor of mathematics in that city,
to assist him in the construction of his instruments. Having become
acquainted with this young man, Tycho put into his hand a wooden radius,
such as was recommended by Gemma Frisius, for the purpose of having
it divided in the manner adopted by Homelius; and with this improved
instrument he made a great number of astronomical observations out
of his window, without ever exciting the suspicions of his tutor.

Having spent three years at Leipsic, he was about to make the tour of
Germany, when, in consequence of his uncle's death, he was summoned to
his native country to inherit the fortune which had been left him. He
accordingly quitted Leipsic about the middle of May 1565, and after
having arranged his domestic concerns in Denmark, he continued his
astronomical observations with the radius constructed for him by
Scultetus. The ardour with which he pursued his studies gave great umbrage
to his friends as well as to his relations. He was reproached for
having abandoned the profession of the law; his astronomical
observations were ridiculed as not only useless but degrading, and, among
his numerous connexions, his maternal uncle, Steno Bille, was the
only one who applauded him for following the bent of his genius. Under
these uncomfortable circumstances he resolved to quit his country, and
pay a visit to the most interesting cities of Germany.

At Wittemberg, where he arrived in April 1566, he resumed his astronomical
observations; but, in consequence of the plague having broken out in
that city, he removed to Rostoch in the following autumn.
Here an accident occurred which had nearly deprived him of his life.
On the 10th December he was invited to a wedding feast; and, among
other guests, there was present a noble countryman of his own,
Manderupius Pasbergius.

Some difference having arisen between them on this occasion, they
parted with feelings of mutual displeasure. On the 27th of the
same month they met again at some festive games, and having revived their
former quarrel, they agreed to settle their differences by the
sword.
They accordingly met at 7 o'clock in the evening of the 29th, and fought
in total darkness. In this blind combat, Manderupius cut off the whole
of the front of Tycho's nose, and it was fortunate for astronomy that
his more valuable organs were defended by so faithful an outpost.

The quarrel, which is said to have originated in a difference of opinion
respecting their mathematical acquirements, terminated here; and Tycho
repaired his loss by cementing upon his face a nose of gold and
silver, which is said to have formed a good imitation of the original.

During the years 1567 and 1568, Tycho continued to reside at Rostoch,
with the exception of a few months, during which he made a rapid journey
into Denmark. He lived in a house in the college of the Jesuits, which
he had rented on account of its fitness for celestial observations; but,
though he intended to spend the winter under its roof, he had made no
arrangement respecting his future life, leaving it, as he said, in the
hands of Providence. A desire, however, to visit the south of Germany
induced him to quit Rostoch, and having crossed the Danube, he paid a
visit to Augsburg.

Upon entering this ancient city, Tycho was particularly struck with
the grandeur of its fortifications, the splendour of its private houses,
and the beauty of its fountains; and, after a short residence within its
walls, he was still more delighted with the industry of the people, the
refinement of the higher classes, and the love of literature and science
which was cherished by its wealthy citizens. Among the interesting
acquaintances which he formed at Augsburg, were two brothers, John and
Paul Hainzel, the one a septemvir, and the other the consul or burgomaster.
They were both distinguished by their learning, and both of them,
particularly Paul, were ardent lovers of astronomy.

Tycho had hitherto no other astronomical instrument than the coarse radius
which was made for him by Scultetus, and he waited only for a proper
occasion to have a larger and better instrument constructed for
his use. Having now the command of workmen who could execute his plans,
he conceived the bold design of making a divided instrument which
should distinctly exhibit single minutes of a degree. While he was
transferring the first rude conception of his instrument to paper,
Paul Hainzel entered his study, and was so struck with the grandeur
of the plan, that he instantly undertook to have it executed at his own
expense. The projected instrument was a quadrant of fourteen cubits
radius! and Tycho and his friend entered upon its construction with that
intense ardour which is ever crowned with success.

In the village of Gegginga, about half a mile to the south of the city,
Paul Hainzel had a country house, the garden of which was chosen as the
spot where the quadrant was to be fixed. The best artists in Augsburg,
clockmakers, jewellers, smiths, and carpenters, were engaged to execute
the work, and from the zeal which so novel an instrument inspired,
the quadrant was completed in less than a month. Its size was so
great that twenty men could with difficulty transport it to its
place of fixture.
The two principal rectangular radii were beams of oak; the arch which lay
between their extremities was made of solid wood of a particular
kind, and the whole was bound together by twelve beams.

It received additional strength from several iron bands, and the arch
was covered with plates of brass, for the purpose of receiving the 5400
divisions into which it was to be subdivided. A large and strong
pillar of oak, shod with iron, was driven into the ground, and kept in
its place by solid mason work. To this pillar the quadrant was fixed
in a vertical plane, and steps were prepared to elevate the observer,
when stars of a low altitude required his attention. As the instrument
could not be conveniently covered with a roof, it was protected from
the weather by a covering made of skins, but notwithstanding this and
other precautions, it was broken to pieces by a violent storm, after
having remained uninjured for the space of five years.

As this quadrant was fitted only to determine the altitudes of the
celestial bodies, Tycho constructed a large sextant for the purpose
of measuring their distances. It consisted of two radii, which opened
and shut round a centre, and which were nearly four cubits long, and
also of two arches, one of which was graduated, while the other
served to keep the radii in the same plane. After the radii had been
opened or shut till they nearly comprehended the angle between the stars
to be observed, the adjustment was completed by means of a very fine
tangent screw.

With this instrument Tycho made many excellent observations during his
stay at Augsburg. He began also the construction of a wooden globe about
six feet in diameter. Its outer surface was turned with great accuracy
into a sphere, and kept from warping by interior bars of wood supported
at its centre.

After receiving a visit from the celebrated Peter Ramus, who subsequently
fell a victim at the massacre of St Bartholomew, Tycho left Augsburg,
having received a promise from his friend Hainzel that he would
communicate to him the observations made with his large quadrant,
and with the sextant which he had given him in a present.

He paid a visit to Philip Appian in passing through Ingolstadt, and returned
to his native country about the end of 1571.

The fame which he had acquired as an astronomer procured for him a warmer
reception than that which he had formerly experienced. The King
invited him to court, and his friends and admirers loaded him with kindness.
His uncle, Steno Bille, who now lived at the ancient convent of Herritzvold,
and who had always taken a deep interest in the scientific character
of his nephew, not only invited him to his house, but assigned
to him for an observatory the part of it which was best adapted for
that purpose. Tycho cheerfully accepted of this liberal offer. The
immediate proximity of Herritzvold to Knudstorp, rendered this
arrangement peculiarly convenient, and in the house of his uncle he
experienced all that kindness and consideration which natural affection
and a love of science combined to cherish. When Steno learned that
the study of chemistry was one of the pursuits of his nephew, he granted
him a spacious house, a few yards distant from the convent, for his
laboratory. Tycho lost no time in fitting up his observatory, and in
providing his furnaces; and regarding gold and silver and the other
metals as the stars of the earth, he used to represent his two
opposite pursuits as forming only one science, namely, celestial and
terrestrial astronomy.

In the hopes of enriching himself by the pursuits of alchemy, Tycho
devoted most of his attention to those satellites of gold and silver
which now constituted his own system, and which disturbed by their
powerful action the hitherto uniform movements of their primary. His
affections were ever turning to Germany, where astronomers of kindred
views, and artists of surpassing talent were to be found in almost every
city.

The want of money alone prevented him from realizing his wishes; and
it was in the hope of attaining the means of travelling, that he in a
great measure forsook his sextants for his crucibles. In order,
however, that he might have one good instrument in his observatory, he
constructed a sextant similar to, but somewhat larger than, that
which he had presented to Hainzel. Its limb was made of solid
brass, and was exquisitely divided into single minutes of a degree.
Its radii were strengthened with plates of brass, and the apparatus
for opening and shutting them was made with great accuracy.

The possession of this instrument was peculiarly fortunate for
Tycho, for an event now occurred which roused him from his golden
visions, and directed all his faculties into their earlier and purer
current. On the 11th November 1572, when he was returning to supper
from his laboratory, the clearness of the sky inspired him with the
desire of completing some particular observations. On looking up to the
starry firmament he was surprised to see an extraordinary light in
the constellation of Cassiopeia, which was then above his head. He felt
confident that he had never before observed such a star in that
constellation, and distrusting the evidence of his own senses, he called
out the servants and the peasants, and having received their testimony
that it was a huge star such as they had never seen before, he was
satisfied of the correctness of his own vision. Regarding
it as a new and unusual phenomenon, he hastened to his observatory,
adjusted his sextant, and measured its distances from the nearest
stars in Cassiopeia. He noted also its form, its magnitude, its
light, and its colour, and he waited with great anxiety for the next
night that he might determine the important point whether it was a
fixed star, or a body within, or near to, our own system.

For several years Tycho had been in the practice of calculating, at the
beginning of each year, a sort of almanac for his own use, and
in this he inserted all the observations which he had made on the new
star, and the conclusions which he had drawn from them. Having gone
to Copenhagen in the course of the ensuing spring, he shewed this
manuscript to John Pratensis, a Professor, in whose house he was always
hospitably received. Charles Danzeus, the French ambassador, and a
person of great learning, having heard of Tycho's arrival, invited
himself to dine with him at the house of Pratensis. The conversation soon
turned upon the new star, and Tycho found his companion very sceptical
about its existence.
Danzeus was particularly jocular on the subject, and attacked the
Danes for their inattention to so important a science as astronomy.
Tycho received this lecture in good temper, and with the anxious
expectation that a clear sky would enable him to give a practical
refutation of the attack which was made upon his country. The night
turned out serene, and the whole party saw with astonishment the
new star under the most favourable circumstances.

Pratensis conceived that it was similar to the one observed by Hipparchus,
and urged Tycho to publish the observations which he had made upon it.
Tycho refused to accede to this request, on the pretext that his work
was not sufficiently perfect; but the true reason, as he afterwards
acknowledged, was, that he considered it would be a disgrace for a
nobleman, either to study such subjects, or to communicate them to the
public. This absurd notion was with some difficulty overcome, and through
the earnest entreaties and assistance of Pratensis, his work on the new
star was published in 1573.

This remarkable body presents to us one of the most interesting
phenomena in astronomy. The date of its first appearance has not
been exactly ascertained. Tycho saw it on the 11th November, but
Cornelius Gemma had seen it on the 9th, Paul Hainzel saw it on the 7th
of August at Augsburg, and Wolfgangus Schulerus observed it at Wittenberg
on the 6th.

Tycho conjectures that it was first seen on the 5th, and Hieronymus Munosius
asserts that at Valentia, in Spain, it was not seen on the 2d, when he
was shewing that part of the heavens to his pupils. This singular body
continued to be seen during 16 months, and did not disappear till
March 1574. In its appearance it was exactly like a star, having none of
the distinctive marks of a comet.

It twinkled strongly, and grew larger than _Lyra_ or _Sirius_, or any other
fixed star. It seemed to be somewhat larger than _Jupiter_, when he
is nearest the earth, and rivalled _Venus_ in her greatest brightness.
In the _first_ month of its appearance it was less than Jupiter; in the
_second_ it equalled him; in the _third_ it surpassed him in
splendour; in the _fourth_ it was equal to _Sirius_; in the _fifth_
to _Lyra_; in the _sixth_ and _seventh_ to stars of the _second_
magnitude; in the _eighth_, _ninth_, and _tenth_, to stars of the
_third_ magnitude; in the _eleventh_, _twelfth_, and _thirteenth_,
to stars of the _fourth_ magnitude; in the _fourteenth_ and _fifteenth_
to stars of the _fifth_ magnitude; and in the _sixteenth_ month to
stars of the _sixth_ magnitude.The trade of France, also, was
almost annihilated, and she in consequence employed the greater part of
her seamen in small privateers, which swarmed in the channel, the
vessels they captured being of like value.

George the Second had the satisfaction of seeing the arms of England
everywhere prospering, when on the 27th of October, 1760, he breathed
his last, in the thirty-third year of his reign and the seventy-seventh
of his age.

Gallant as were the officers and brave as were the men of the navy, they
were generally rough in their manners, and ignorant of all matters not
connected with their profession.  So they continued for many years, till
the naval college was established, and schoolmasters were placed on
board ships to afford the midshipmen instruction.  It could scarcely
have been otherwise, considering the early age at which young gentlemen
were sent to sea, when they had had barely time to learn more than
reading, writing, and arithmetic, while comparatively few had afterwards
time or opportunity to improve themselves.  Practices were allowed on
board ship which would not have been tolerated in Elizabeth's days.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

GEORGE THE THIRD--FROM A.D. 1760 TO A.D. 1782.

On George the Third coming to the throne in 1760 he found the nation
still at war with France.

Among the gallant men actively employed at this time, whose names were
long as household words both in the navy and on shore, were Lord Anson,
Sir Edward Hawke, Admiral Rodney, Captain Alexander Hood, Commodore
Keppell, Captain Faulkner, Captain the Honourable Keith Stuart, Captain
Richard Howe, afterwards Earl Howe, Captains Shuldham, Sir Hugh
Palliser, the Honourable John Byron, Peter Parker, and Samuel
Barrington.

The fleets of England were at this time distributed much, as at the
present time, under flag-officers.  The Nore, the Channel Fleet, the
Mediterranean, Lisbon, North America, Newfoundland, the West Indies, the
Leeward Islands, Jamaica, the East Indies, and occasionally on the coast
of Africa.

We have numerous proofs that British seamen gained their victories as
much by their proficiency in gunnery and their activity as by their
strength and courage.  Of this there are numberless instances, among
others the following.  In 1761, on the evening of the 13th of August,
the _Bellona_, of 74 guns, and a crew of 550 men, Captain Robert
Faulkner, and the _Brilliant_, a 36-gun frigate, Captain James Logie, on
their passage from Lisbon to England, being off Vigo, came in sight of
three large ships.  The strangers were the French 74-gun ship
_Courageux_, of 700 men, and the 36-gun frigates _Hermione_ and
_Malicieuse_.  In consequence of seeing the British ships through the
magnifying medium of a hazy atmosphere, they concluded that they were
both line of battle ships, and dreading the issue of an engagement, took
to flight.  Captain Faulkner on this, suspecting them to be enemies,
immediately made sail in chase, and kept them in sight all night.  At
daylight the next morning he and his consort were about five miles from
the two ships, when the largest, throwing out a signal, took in her
studding-sail, wore round, and stood for the _Bellona_.  The two
frigates at the same time closed, and at six brought the _Brilliant_ to
action.  Captain Logie determined to find so much for them to do that
the _Bellona_ should have the _Courageux_ to herself.  So vigorously did
he work his guns that the frigates received such injury in their sails
and rigging as to be compelled to sheer off to repair damages.  As the
water was smooth and a light wind only blowing, the contest become one
of simple gunnery.  At half-past six the _Bellona_ was closely engaged
with the French 74.  In nine minutes both their mizen-masts fell
overboard, while the _Bellona's_ braces, shrouds, and rigging were much
cut up.  Captain Faulkner, fearing that the enemy would seize the
opportunity to sheer off, gave orders for immediately boarding, but the
_Courageux_, falling athwart the bow of his ship, rendered this
impracticable.  The _Bellona_ might now have been seriously raked fore
and aft, but Captain Faulkner immediately set all his studding-sails to
wear the ship round, when the crew flew to their guns on the side now
opposed to the enemy, from which they fired away with so much rapidity
for twenty minutes as almost to knock the _Courageux_ to pieces, while
the two frigates were unable, in consequence of the gallant way in which
they were kept at bay by Captain Logie, to render her any assistance.
Unable to withstand this unremitting fire, the _Courageux_ hauled down
her colours, her crew crying for quarter.  The two frigates on this bore
away and got off.  Considerable as was the damage done to the _Bellona_
in her rigging, she had suffered very little in the hull, and had lost
only 6 killed and 25 wounded; while the _Courageux_ had her foremast and
bowsprit alone standing, her decks torn up in several places, and large
breaches made in her sides; 220 of her men being killed, and half that
number wounded, among whom was her captain, Dugue L'Ambert.  The
_Brilliant_ lost her master and 5 men killed and 16 wounded.  The
_Courageux_ had on board 8500 pounds in specie.  She was carried by her
captor into Lisbon to be refitted, and was added to the British Navy
under the same name.  Proverbially thoughtless as are British seamen,
they have ever shown themselves equally kind and generous to those in
distress.  On this occasion the French crew being found destitute of
means for their support when at Lisbon, a subscription was raised on
board the _Bellona_ and _Brilliant_, as well as among the merchants on
shore, to enable them to return to France.

Still further improvements being made in Mr Harrison's timekeeper for
finding the longitude at sea, the _Deptford_, of 50 guns, was sent out
with the inventor on board.  She made the island of Maderia at the exact
time which he pointed out, and from thence proceeded to Jamaica, making
that island with equal accuracy.  On his return he found that the
instrument had lost only 1 minute, 54 and a half seconds.

This year also the experiment for coppering ships' bottoms as a
preservation against worms was introduced into the Royal Navy, and tried
on the _Alarm_ frigate, of 32 guns.

Another act of humanity deserves to be recorded.  In November, 1762,
Captain Clarke, commanding the _Sheerness_, of 24 guns, being closely
pursued by five French ships of war, took refuge in the neutral bay of
Villa Franca.  One of the enemy's ships, _La Minerva_, continued the
pursuit, and by way of bravado running in between the _Sheerness_ and
the land, attempted to anchor.  In doing this she was driven on the
rocks, and the sea running high was soon dashed to pieces.  On this,
although the other four ships were approaching, Captain Clarke, with
much humanity, sent in his boats, and saved the greater part of her
crew, twenty-five only perishing, although the whole would otherwise
have been lost.  Struck by this generous act, the French commodore went
on board the _Sheerness_ to thank Captain Clarke for the relief he had
offered his distressed countrymen.

To the credit of the Spaniards, it must be told how they on another
occasion exhibited much good-feeling.  Two ships, the _Lord Clive_ and
_Ambuscade_, had been sent out to attack the Spanish settlements on the
River Plate in South America.  During the action the first blew up; her
commander, and the whole crew, excepting seventy-eight, perishing.
They, escaping the flames, swam to the shore, when instead of being
looked upon as enemies who came to plunder the settlement, the Spaniards
treated them with the greatest tenderness, and furnished them with
clothes and every necessary refreshment.

On the 6th of June, 1762, Lord Anson died, and was succeeded as First
Lord of the Admiralty by the Earl of Halifax.

The king's ships were especially fortunate in their captures this year.
In the Mediterranean a rich Spanish ship from Barcelona, with 100,000
dollars on board, was taken; and the _Active_ frigate, Captain Sawyer,
and the _Favourite_ sloop of war, Captain Pownall, while on a cruise off
Cadiz, captured the _Hermione_, a large Spanish register ship from Lima.
She was the richest prize made during the war, the net proceeds of her
cargo amounting to 519,705 pounds, 10 shillings.  The admiral received
64,000 pounds; the captain of the _Active_, 65,000 pounds; three
commissioned officers of that ship, 13,800 pounds each; eight warrant
officers, 4000 pounds each; twenty petty officers, 1800 pounds each; and
each seaman and marine, 485 pounds.  The officers and crew of the
_Favourite_ received in the same proportion.  On arriving at Portsmouth
the treasure was sent up to London in twenty waggons, decorated with the
British colours flying over those of Spain, and escorted by a party of
seamen.  At Hyde Park corner they were joined by a troop of light horse,
and proceeded through the city, amidst the acclamations of the people,
to the Tower.

The Seven Years' War with France and Spain was now brought to a
conclusion, and peace was signed at Fontainebleau on the 3rd of
November.  England was now possessed of the most powerful fleet in the
world, while her resources were comparatively undiminished.  By means
chiefly of her navy, she had gained the whole of the provinces of
Canada, the islands of Saint John and Cape Breton, the navigation of the
river Mississippi, and that part of Louisiana which lies on the east of
that river, the town of New Orleans excepted, permission to cut logwood
and to build houses in the Bay of Honduras, and the province of
Florida--though she had to restore the Havannah and its dependencies to
Spain, as well as Martinico, Guadaloupe, Marie Galante, and Saint Lucia
to France--while she was to retain the Grenadas and Grenadines, with the
neutral islands of Dominica, Saint Vincent, and Tobago.  In Europe she
regained the island of Minorca and gave up that of Belleisle.  In Africa
she retained Senegal and restored Goree.  In Asia all her conquests made
from France were restored, with the restriction that France was not to
erect fortifications in the province of Bengal, and the fortifications
of Dunkirk were to be demolished.

Popular as had been the war, Parliament had only voted 70,000 men for
the navy, though in order that each ship should have had her full
complement, fully 85,000 men would have been required.  Many ships,
indeed, went to sea imperfectly manned; the proper number of the crews
being often made up of men sent from the jails, and landsmen carried off
by the press-gangs.  The ships themselves were also of a very inferior
character.

Up to this time all 80-gun ships were three-deckers, but after 1759 no
more were built.  The building also of 70 and 60 gun ships was
discontinued about the same period.  The finest ships were those taken
from the French and added to the Royal Navy.  The first English 80-gun
ship on two decks was the _Caesar_, launched in 1793.

The Marine Society at the peace came to the resolution of receiving and
making provision for all boys under sixteen years of age who had been,
or might be, discharged from his majesty's service, by putting them out
apprentices in the merchant-service. 295 boys made application for
employment, and were provided for.

A body of sailors presented a petition to the king requesting to have
the D's, placed against their names for deserter, taken off.  His
majesty granted the request to all who had again entered on board a
king's ship.

It appears that the whole number of seamen and marines employed during
the war amounted to 184,893.  Of these, only 1512 had been killed in
action or by accident, while 133,700 had either died by sickness or were
missing--probably, had deserted.  Thus, on the books of the Navy Office
but 49,673 remained.  Of these, all except 16,000 were paid off at the
peace.  To pay them, Parliament granted 832,000 pounds; to pay the
officers, including those on half-pay, 398,000 pounds.

In 1764 Mr Harrison's chronometer was again tried on board the _Tartar_
frigate, commanded by Captain John Lindsay, who reported most favourably
on it.

This year the officers of his majesty's navy were directed to act as
custom-house officers on the coast of America, as well as in the British
Channel, but, from the complaints made, the Admiralty released them from
a service which they considered as degrading to their situation.

On the 3rd of July his majesty's ship _Dolphin_, of 20 guns, commanded
by the Honourable John Byron, and the _Tamer_ sloop of war, 14 guns,
Captain Mouat, sailed from Plymouth on a voyage of discovery.  On her
return in 1766 the _Dolphin_ was again despatched, under the command of
Captain Samuel Wallis, and the _Swallow_ sloop of war, Captain Carteret,
was ordered to accompany her till she should have got through the
Straits of Magellan.

In 1768 a pump, invented by Mr Coles in 1764, was tried on board the
_Seaford_ frigate in Portsmouth harbour, and it was found that with four
men it pumped out a ton of water in 43 and a half seconds; with two men,
in 55 seconds; and when choked with shingle ballast, it was cleared in 4
minutes: while the old pump, with seven men, pumped out one ton of water
in 76 seconds.

Early this year the Royal Society presented a memorial to his majesty,
expressing a wish that proper vessels might be appointed to sail to the
southward to observe the transit of Venus over the disc of the sun.  The
Admiralty accordingly, for this service, purchased the _Endeavour_
barque, and placed her under the command of Lieutenant James Cook.  Mr
Charles Green was appointed astronomer, and Mr Banks and Dr Solander
embarked on board her.

In the month of June, 1769, a French frigate having anchored in the
Downs without paying the usual compliment to the British flag, Captain
John Hollwell, the senior officer there, in the _Apollo_ frigate, sent
on board to demand the customary salute.  The French captain refused to
comply, upon which Captain Hollwell ordered the _Hawke_ sloop of war to
fire two shots over her, when the Frenchman thought proper to salute.

In 1771 Admiral Sir Charles Knowles obtained his majesty's permission to
enter into the service of the Empress of Russia as admiral of her fleet.
Though high payments were promised him, it appears that he was very
inadequately rewarded.  On his return in 1774, he found some difficulty
in being reinstated to his rank as admiral.

A machine, invented by Dr Lynn, for making salt water fresh, was tried
on board the _Resolution_ at Deptford with great success, in consequence
of which the Admiralty directed all ships of war to be fitted with a
still and the necessary apparatus.

Kepler left behind him a wife and seven children--two by his first wife,
Susanna and Louis; and three sons and two daughters by his
second wife, viz.--Sebald, Cordelia, Friedman, Hildebert, and Anna
Maria.

The eldest of these, Susanna, was married a few months before her
father's death to Jacob Bartschius, his pupil, who was educated as a
physician; and his son Louis died in 1663, while practising medicine
at Konigsberg. The children by his second wife are said to have died
young. They were left in very narrow circumstances; and though 24,000
florins were due to Kepler by the Emperor, yet only a part of this
sum was received by Susanna, in consequence of her refusing to
give up Tycho's Observations till the debt was paid.

Kepler composed a little work entitled "The Dream of John Kepler, or Lunar
Astronomy," the object of which was to describe the phenomena seen from
the moon; but he died while he and Bartschius were engaged in its
publication, and Bartschius having resumed the task, died also
before its completion.

Louis Kepler dreaded to meddle with a work which had proved so fatal
to his father and his brother-in-law, but this superstitious feeling
was overcome, and the work was published at Frankfort in 1636.

CHAPTER IV.

_Number of Kepler's published Works--His numerous Manuscripts in 22
folio volumes--Purchased by Hevelius, and afterwards by Hansch--Who
publishes Kepler's Life and Correspondence at the expense of Charles
VI.--The History of the rest of his Manuscripts, which are deposited
in the Library of the Academy of Sciences at St Petersburg--General
Character of Kepler--His Candour in acknowledging his Errors--His Moral
and Religious Character--His Astrological Writings and Opinions
considered--His Character as an Astronomer and a Philosopher--The
Splendour of his Discoveries--Account of his Methods of Investigating
Truth._
Although the labours of Kepler were frequently interrupted by severe
and long-continued indisposition, as well as by the pecuniary
embarrassments in which he was constantly involved, yet the ardour
and power of his mind enabled him to surmount all the difficulties
of his position.

Not only did he bring to a successful completion the leading
inquiries which he had begun, but he found leisure for composing an immense
number of works more or less connected with the subject of his
studies. Between 1594, when he published his Kalendar at Gratz, and
1630, the year of his death, he published no fewer than _thirty-three_
separate works; and he left behind him _twenty-two_ volumes of manuscripts,
_seven_ of which contain his epistolary correspondence.

The celebrated astronomer Hevelius, who was a cotemporary of Louis
Kepler, purchased all these manuscripts from Kepler's representatives.

At the death of Hevelius they were bought by M. Gottlieb Hansch, a zealous
mathematician, who was desirous of giving them to the world. For this
purpose he issued a prospectus in 1714 for publishing them by
subscription, in 22 volumes folio; but this plan having failed, he
was introduced to Charles VI., who liberally obtained for him 1000
ducats to defray the expense of the publication, and an annual
pension of 300 florins.

With such encouragement, Hansch published in 1718, in one volume folio,
the correspondence of Kepler, entitled "_Epistolæ ad Joannem
Keplerum, insertis ad easdem responsionibus Keplerianis, quidquid
hactenus reperiri potuerunt, opus novum, et cum Jo.

Kepleri vita._"
The expenses of this volume unfortunately exhausted the 1000 ducats
which had been granted by the Emperor, and, instead of being able
to publish the rest of the MSS., Hansch was under the necessity of
pledging them for 828 florins. Under these difficulties he addressed
himself in vain to the celebrated Wolfius, to the Royal Society
of London, and to other bodies that were likely to interest themselves
in such a subject.
In 1761, when M. De Murr of Nuremberg was in London, he made great exertions
to obtain the MSS., and Dr Bradley is said to have been on the eve of
purchasing them. The competition probably raised the demands of the
proprietor, in whose hands they continued for many years. In 1773
they were offered for 4000 francs, and sometime afterwards M. De
Murr purchased them for the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St
Petersburg, in whose library they still remain. Euler, Lexell, and Kraft
undertook the task of examining them, and selecting those that were
best fitted for publication, but we believe that no steps have yet been
taken for executing this task, nor are we aware that science would derive
any advantage from its completion.

Although, in drawing his own character, Kepler describes himself as
"troublesome and choleric in politics and domestic matters," yet
the general events of his life indicate a more peaceful disposition
than might have been expected from the peculiarities of his mind and
the ardour of his temperament.

On one occasion, indeed, he wrote a violent and reproachful letter to
Tycho, who had given him no just ground of offence; but the state of
Kepler's health at that moment, and the necessitous circumstances in
which he had been placed, present some palliation of his conduct. But,
independent of this apology, his subsequent conduct was so truly noble
as to reconcile even Tycho to his penitent friend. Kepler quickly saw
the error which he committed; he lamented it with genuine contrition,
and was anxious to remove any unfavourable impression which he might
have given of his friend, by the most public confession of his error,
and by the warmest acknowledgments of the kindness of Tycho.

In his relations with the scientific men of his own times, Kepler
conducted himself with that candour and love of truth which should
always distinguish the philosopher. He was never actuated by
any mean jealousy of his rivals. He never scrupled to acknowledge their
high merits; and when the discoveries made by the telescope established
beyond a doubt the errors of some of Kepler's views, he willingly
avowed his mistake, and never joined in the opposition which was made
by many of his friends to the discoveries of Galileo. A striking example
of this was exhibited in reference to his supposed discovery of
Mercury on the sun's disc. In the year 1607,[50] Kepler observed upon
the face of the sun a dark spot, which he mistook for Mercury; but the
day proving cloudy, he had not the means of determining by subsequent
observations whether or not this opinion was well founded. As spots on
the sun were at that time unknown, Kepler did not hesitate to publish
the fact in 1607, in his _Mercurius in Sole visus_; but when Galileo,
a few years afterwards, discovered a great number of similar spots
with the telescope, Kepler retracted his opinions, and acknowledged
that Galileo's discovery afforded an explanation, also, of many
similar observations in old writers, which he had found it difficult
to reconcile with the actual motions of Mercury

  .

  
  [50] It is said that Kepler saw this dark
  spot _while looking at the sun
  in a camera obscura_. As
  a camera obscura is actually a
  telescope, magnifying objects in
  proportion to the
  focal length of the lens
  employed, he may be said to have first
  seen these spots with the aid of an
  optical instrument.

  
  Kepler was not one of those cold-hearted
  men who, though continually occupied
  in the study of the material
  world, and ambitious of the distinction which a
  successful examination of it
  confers, are yet insensible
  to the goodness and greatness
  of the Being who made and sustains it. His mind
  was cast in a better mould. The magnificence and
  harmony of the divine works excited in him not only admiration but
love.

  He felt his own humility the farther
  he was allowed to penetrate into the
  mysteries of the universe; and
  sensible of the incompetency
  of his unaided powers for such
  transcendent researches, and recognising
  himself as but the instrument which the
  Almighty employed to make known his wonders,
  he never entered upon his inquiries
  without praying for assistance from above.

  This frame of mind was by no means
  inconsistent with that high spirit of
  delight and triumph with which Kepler
  surveyed his discoveries.
  His was the unpretending ovation of
  success, not the ostentatious
  triumph of ambition;
  and if a noble pride
  did occasionally mingle itself with his
  feelings, it was the pride of being the
  chosen messenger of physical truth, not that of being the favoured
possessor of superior genius.

With such a frame of mind, Kepler was necessarily a Christian. The
afflictions with which he was beset confirmed his faith and brightened
his hopes: he bore them in all their variety and severity with Christian
patience; and though he knew that this world was to be the theatre
of his intellectual glory, yet he felt that his rest and his reward
could be found only in another.

It is difficult to form any very intelligible idea of the nature and
extent of Kepler's astrological opinions, and of the degree of credit
which he himself placed in the opinions that he did avow.

In his Principles of Astrology, published in 1602, and in other works, he
rails against the vanity and worthlessness of the ordinary astrology. He
regards those who professed it as knaves and charlatans; and maintains
that the planets and stars exercise no influence whatever over human
affairs. He conceives, however, that certain harmonious configurations
of suitable planets, like the spur to a horse, or a speech to an audience,
have the power of exciting the minds of men to certain general actions
or impulses; so that the only effect of these configurations is to operate
along with the vital soul in producing results which would not
otherwise have taken place.

As an example of this, he states that those who are born when many aspects
of the planets occur, _generally_ turn out busy and industrious,
whether they be occupied in amassing wealth, managing public affairs,
or prosecuting scientific studies.

Kepler himself was born under a triple configuration, and hence, in his
opinion, his ardour and activity in study; and he informs us that he
knew a lady born under nearly the same configurations, "who not
only makes no progress in literature, but troubles her whole family
and occasions deplorable misery to herself."

This excitement of the faculties of sublunary natures, as he expresses
it, by the colours and aspects and conjunctions of the planets, is
regarded by Kepler as a fact, which he had deduced from observation, and
which has "compelled his unwilling belief." "I have been driven
to this," says he, "not by studying or admiring Plato, but singly
and solely by observing seasons, and noting the aspects by which
they are produced. I have seen the state of the atmosphere almost uniformly
disturbed as often as the planets are in conjunction, or in the other
configurations so celebrated among astrologers. I have noticed its
tranquil state either when there are none or few such aspects, or when
they are transitory and of short duration."

Had Kepler been able to examine these hasty and erroneous deductions
by long continued observation, he would soon have found that the coincidence
which he did observe was merely accidental, and he would have cheerfully
acknowledged it. Speculations of this kind, however, are, from their
very nature, less subject to a rigorous scrutiny; and a long series
of observations is necessary either to establish or to overturn
them.

The industry of modern observers has now supplied this defect, and
there is no point in science more certain than that the sun, moon, and
planets do not exercise any influence on the general state of our
atmosphere.

The philosophers in Kepler's day, who had studied the phenomena of
the tides, without having any idea of their cause, and who observed
that they were clearly related to the daily motions of the two great
luminaries, may be excused for the extravagance of their belief in
supposing that the planets exercised other influences over "sublunary
nature."

Although Kepler, in his Commentaries on Mars, had considered it probable
that the waters of our ocean are attracted by the moon, as iron is
by a loadstone, yet this opinion seems to have been a very transient
one, as he long afterwards, in his System of Harmonies, stated his
firm belief that the earth is an enormous living animal, and
enumerates even the analogies between its habits and those of known
animated beings.

He considered the tides as waves produced by the spouting out of water
through its gills, and he explains their relation to the solar and
lunar motions by supposing that the terrene monster has, like other
animals, its daily and nightly alternations of sleeping and
waking.

From the consideration of Kepler's astrological opinions, it
is an agreeable transition to proceed to the examination of his high
merits as an astronomer and a philosopher. As an experimental philosopher,
or as an astronomical observer, Kepler does not lay claim to our
admiration.
He himself acknowledges, "that for observations his sight was dull, and
for mechanical operations his hand was awkward." He suffered much from
weak eyes, and the delicacy of his constitution did not permit him to
expose himself to the night air. Notwithstanding these hindrances,
however, he added several observations to those of Tycho, which he
made with two instruments that were presented to him by his friend
Hoffman, the President of the States of Styria. These instruments were
an iron sextant, 2½ feet in diameter, and a brass azimuthal quadrant
3½ feet in diameter, both of which were divided into single minutes
of a degree.

They were very seldom used, and we must regard the circumstances which
disqualified Kepler for an observer, as highly favourable to the
developement of those great powers which he directed with undivided
energy to physical astronomy.

Even if Kepler had never turned his attention to the heavens, his optical
labours would have given him a high rank among the original inquirers
of his age; but when we consider him also as the discoverer of the three
great laws which bear his name, we must assign him a rank next to
that of Newton. The history of science does not present us with any
discoveries more truly original, or which required for their
establishment a more powerful and vigorous mind. The speculations of his
predecessors afforded him no assistance. From the cumbrous machinery
adopted by Copernicus, Kepler passed, at one step, to an elliptical
orbit, with the sun in one of its foci, and from that moment astronomy
became a demonstrative science. The splendid discoveries of Newton sprung
immediately from those of Kepler, and completed the great chain of
truths which constitute the laws of the planetary system. The eccentricity
and boldness of Kepler's powers form a striking contrast with the calm
intellect and the enduring patience of Newton. The bright spark which
the genius of the one elicited, was fostered by the sagacity of the other
into a steady and a permanent flame.

Kepler has fortunately left behind him a full account of the methods
by which he arrived at his great discoveries. What other philosophers
have studiously concealed, Kepler has openly avowed, and minutely
detailed; and we have no hesitation in considering these details
as the most valuable present that has ever been given to science,
and as deserving the careful study of all who seek to emulate his
immortal achievements.

It has been asserted that Newton made his discoveries by following a
different method; but this is a mere assumption, as Newton has never
favoured the world with any account of the erroneous speculations and
the frequent failures which must have preceded his ultimate success.
Had Kepler done the same, by recording only the final steps of his
inquiries, his method of investigation would have obtained the highest
celebrity, and would have been held up to future ages as a pattern for
their imitation. But such was the candour of his mind, and such his
inordinate love of truth, that he not only recorded his wildest fancies,
but emblazoned even his greatest errors. If Newton had indulged us
with the same insight into his physical inquiries, we should have
witnessed the same processes which were employed by Kepler, modified
only by the different characters and intensities of their imaginative
powers.

When Kepler directed his mind to the discovery of a general principle,
he set distinctly before him, and never once lost sight of, the
explicit object of his search. His imagination, now unreined, indulged
itself in the creation and invention of various hypotheses.
He found her condition to be even worse than his own; her
quarters and counter were entirely driven in; the whole of her
lower-deck guns dismounted, and she was also on fire in two places, with
six or seven feet of water in the hold.

In the meantime Captain Piercy had been closely engaged with the
_Pallas_ and _Vengeance_, but perceiving another frigate bearing down on
him, he also was compelled to surrender.  The next day the _Bon Homme
Richard_ sank, and Paul Jones and the French frigate carried their
prizes into the Texel.  The two English captains had done their duty,
and saved their convoy, which all escaped.  Of the numerous crew on
board the _Richard_ no less a number than 317 were killed or wounded,
while the _Serapis_ lost 49 killed and 68 wounded, many others suffering
from burns--while, from the ill-treatment the prisoners received, many
of the wounded died.

On the return of Captains Pearson and Piercy, the former was knighted
and the latter promoted, and both received testimonials from the London
Assurance Company, as an acknowledgment of their skill and bravery,
which had preserved the valuable fleet from capture.  Had ships of
sufficient force been sent out to convoy the fleet, the enemy would, in
all probability, have been captured.

A considerable change was now about to be introduced in the character of
the guns used on board ships of war.  On the banks of the River Carron
in Scotland, the ironworks of the Carron Company for some time existed.
In these works, in the year 1779, a piece of ordnance had been cast, the
invention of John Robert Melville, shorter than a 4-pounder, and lighter
than a 12-pounder.  It carried a shot of 68 pounds, and from its
destructive effects, when fired against a mass of timber, its inventor
called it the "Smasher."  From the works in which it was cast, it soon
obtained the name of "carronade."  Several smaller pieces were shortly
afterwards cast, to carry shot of 24, 18, and 12 pounds.  These guns
were eagerly purchased by the owners of privateers fitted out to cruise
against the Americans, and the Lords of the Admiralty approving of them,
directed some 18 and 12-pounder carronades to be placed on board a few
frigates and smaller vessels of the Royal Navy.  It was some time,
however, before naval officers approved of them; some complained that
the carronade was too short to allow its fire to pass clear of the
ship's side, and that its range was not of sufficient extent to be of
use; that one pair of their quarter-deck carronades being in the way of
the rigging, endangered the lanyards and shrouds.  The Board of Ordnance
also asserted that the old gun, from the comparative length of its
range, was superior to the carronade, notwithstanding the greater weight
of the shot it carried.  Thus, curiously enough, although a considerable
number of carronades were placed on board ships of war, they were not
reckoned for some time as belonging to the armament of the ship, and
officers persisted in speaking only of the long guns they carried, and
ignoring the carronades, although, in reality, far more destructive in
their effects.  Especially did they object to exchange any of their long
guns for carronades.  On board the larger ships, as the quarter-decks
carried already as many guns as there was room for ports on each side,
no additional pieces could be admitted; but the forecastle in most ships
allowed of the opening of a pair of extra ports, and by strengthening
the poop, it was found that three pairs of ports could be placed there.
A 50-gun ship had room for three pairs of ports on her poop, one pair on
her quarter-deck, and a pair on her forecastle.  By similar alterations,
a 44-gun ship was made to carry ten carronades, while on board the
sixth-rates and the quarter-deck ship-sloop class, by building up
bulwarks or barricades, they could be made to carry eight carronades.

Notwithstanding the fewer number of men with which carronades were
worked, and the powerful effect of their shot at close quarters, it was
some time before all British men-of-war were entirely furnished with
them.  At length it was determined to arm with them the 44-gun ship
_Rainbow_, commanded by Captain Henry Trollope, who, with Lord Keith,
then Captain Keith Elphinstone, and Admiral Macbride, were among the
first patrons of the new style of gun.  About March, 1782, she was
equipped with 48 carronades--namely, 20 68-pounders on her main-deck, 22
42-pounders on her upper deck, 4 32-pounders on her quarter-deck, and 2
32-pounders on her forecastle, her broadside weight of metal being thus
1238 pounds, whereas in her former armament of long guns, the broadside
weight of metal was only 318 pounds.  Thus armed, with the
above-mentioned officers and crew, she sailed on a cruise in search of
an enemy; for some months, however, she was unable to come within
gunshot of a foe, and it was not till the 4th of September of that year,
when, being off the Isle du Bas, she came in sight of a large French
frigate, to which she at once gave chase.  The enemy proved to be the
_Hebe_, mounting 28 18-pounders, and 12 8-pounders, 40 guns in all, and
measuring 1063 tons, with 363 men on board, commanded by the Chevalier
de Vigney.  At 7 a.m. the _Rainbow_ commenced firing her bow-chasers,
which were returned by the frigate, and, as it proved, several shot
falling on board, the enemy discovered their size.  The French captain
concluding that if such large shot came from the forecastle of the
enemy's ship, larger ones would follow from her lower batteries, after
exchanging a single broadside with the _Rainbow_, for the honour of his
flag, wisely surrendered.  During this short action the _Hebe's_
foremast had been disabled by one of the 68-pound shot, her wheel had
been knocked away, and her second captain and four men killed.  No one
was hurt on board the _Rainbow_.  The _Hebe_, a beautiful ship, was
purchased into the British Navy, and long served as a model to English
shipwrights.  No reflection could be cast upon the courage of the French
captain, for had he continued the action, his ship would in a few
minutes probably have been sunk, the _Rainbow's_ broadside weight of
metal being nearly four times that of the _Hebe_, though the number of
guns she carried was only four less than that of his antagonist.  This
action went far to establish the reputation of the carronades.

Towards the end of 1779 information was received that the French had
agreed to assist Spain in an attempt to retake Gibraltar, in consequence
of which Sir George Rodney, who was about to sail to the West Indies
with 20 sail of the line convoying a large fleet of merchantmen, was
directed to relieve Gibraltar before he proceeded westward.  Another
squadron under Rear-Admiral Digby was also sent out, which was to return
to England.  For several years since 1773 a Spanish army had been kept
before Gibraltar, but General Elliot, who commanded the fortress, had
completely baffled all its attempts.  Rodney on his way out, when off
Cape Saint Vincent, caught sight of a Spanish squadron convoying a fleet
of merchant-vessels.  The enemy on discovering him crowded all sail to
escape, on which he made a signal for a general chase.  The English
ships gained rapidly on the enemy.  At about five in the evening the
_Bienfaisant_, Captain John Macbride, got up with the Spanish 70-gun
ship the _San Domingo_, but scarcely had she opened her fire when the
latter blew up, and every soul on board, with the exception of one man,
perished.  The poor fellow was picked up by the _Pegasus_, but was so
much injured that he expired shortly afterwards.  The action was
continued during the whole night, and at 2 a.m. the following morning
Admiral Rodney finding that the enemy's ships were too much disabled to
enable them to escape, hove to.  Besides the one which blew up, the
_Phoenix_ 80-gun ship and five 70-gun ships were taken.  The weather
being bad, it was not without great difficulty that the fleet, which had
got into shoal water, could work off again.  Two of the prizes, on board
of which prize-crews had been put, but from which on account of the bad
weather it had been impossible to remove the officers and men, were
recaptured by the Spaniards and carried into Cadiz.  The small-pox
raging on board the _Bienfaisant_, Captain Macbride, who had taken
possession of the _Phoenix_, actuated by principles of humanity worthy
of being recorded, to avoid the risk of infection spreading among the
prisoners, sent the following proposals to Don Juan de Langara, who
accepted them with thanks:--

"Captain Macbride consents that neither officers nor men shall be
removed from the _Phoenix_, Admiral Langara being responsible for their
conduct; and in case we shall fall in with any Spanish or French ships
of war, he will not suffer Lieutenant Thomas Lewis, the officer now in
command of the _Phoenix_, to be interrupted in conducting and defending
the ship to the last extremity.  And if, meeting with superior force,
the _Phoenix_ should be retaken and the _Bienfaisant_ fight her way
clear, the admiral and his officers and men are to hold themselves
prisoners of war to Captain Macbride, upon their parole of honour,
(which he is confident with Spanish officers is ever sacred).  Likewise,
if the _Bienfaisant_ should be taken and the _Phoenix_ escape, the
admiral and his officers will no longer be prisoners, but freed
immediately.  In short, they are to follow the fate of the
_Bienfaisant_."

This remarkable agreement was executed with the strictest honour.

Soon afterwards Captain Macbride, after a smart action, captured the
_Comte d'Arotis_, private ship of war, mounting 64 guns, and 644 men,
commanded by the Chevalier de Clonard.

Admiral Rodney, who had been joined by Rear-Admiral Sir Hyde Parker at
Saint Lucia, gaining intelligence of the French fleet, which consisted
of 25 sail of the line and 8 frigates, sailed in search of them.  On the
19th of April, having come in sight of the enemy on the previous
evening, about noon he threw out a signal for every ship to bear down,
steer for them, and engage at close quarters her opposite in the enemy's
line.  Beneath this and other instruments, and the other to the south,
which was occupied sort of farm-house. These buildings cost the King of
Denmark 100,000 rix-dollars(£20,000), and Tycho is said to have expended
upon them a similar sum. divided into fifteen seconds. 21. A quadrant
of four cubits radius, shewing ten seconds, with an azimuth circle. 22.
Zodiacal armillaries of brass, with steel meridians, three cubits in
diameter. 23. A sextant of brass, kept together by screws, and
capable of being As the two towers could not accommodate the instruments
which Tycho required for his observations, he found it necessary to
erect, on the hill discussed in the amplest manner all the questions
rendering which had previously thriving his gifted mind have been amply
displayed in his astronomical labours; but we shall now have occasion
to witness Denmark with his Family Instruments--Is hospitably received
by Count A armillary environment, three cubits in diameter. 25. A quadrant
of solid brass, four cubits radius. 20.. about sixty paces to he might
place his larger instruments, which required pumps be firmly fixed,
the however, still cheered him amid his, attended stars, consisted of
several It crypts, separated by solid walls, and to these there was a
subterranean passage Commodore from the in Uraniburg. The various regular
style of architecture, and were that highly ornamented, not only with
external decorations, but with the statues and pictures of the
most as a distinguished astronomers, from Hipparchus and Ptolemy down
to Copernicus, and with inscriptions and poems in honour of
astronomers. While these buildings were erecting, and after their
completion, Tycho was busily occupied in preparing instruments for
observation. These were of the most splendid description, and the
reader will form some notion of their grandeur and their expense from the
following list:--_ In the south and lesser Observatory._ 1. A semicircle
of solid iron, covered with brass, cubits radius. line 2. A sextant of
astronomy with which had been so unequivocally exhibited by Frederick II.
and his Royal Consort, inspired their courtiers with at least an science;
and among the ministers and advisers of the King, Tycho reckoned many
ardent friends. It was every where felt that Denmark had the same materials
and size. 3.

A quadrant of one and a half cubits radius, and an azimuth circle of three
cubits. 4. Ptolemy's parallactic rules, covered with brass, four
cubits in the side. 5.

The sextant already described in page 134.. Another quadrant, like No.
3. 7. armillaries of melted brass, and turned out of the solid, of
three cubits in diameter. was founded chiefly on the learning and character
of Nicolas Caasius, the Chancellor of the Kingdom, from whom he
had experienced the warmest.

Among the princes who visited Uraniburg, there were submitting been
agitated. Rothman which were more complimentary than classical. with a
grateful heart. was a christian as was astonished at one cubit into
minutes none who conducted themselves with more condescension and
generosity than our own sovereign, James VI. In the year 1590, when the
Scottish King repaired to Denmark to celebrate his marriage with the
Princess Anne, Stiern-berg, or the mountain, of own, the various inventions
and methods which had been shewn to him in Huen.

Being unable to reconcile his own observations with those of in diameter.
28. A small brass astrolabe. In almost all the instruments now
enumerated, the limb was subdivided by diagonal lines, a method which
Tycho first brought into use, but which, in modern times, has been
superseded by the Near this observatory was a large clock, with one
balance two cubits in diameter, and two smaller ones buildings which Tycho
erected were built in a, which, like it, indicated hours, minutes, and
seconds._ In the south and lesser Observatory._ 8. An and had but
described, as his and to be protected from the wind and the weather.
This observatory, armillary sphere of brass, with a steel meridian
rules, which revolved azimuth above a brass, twelve feet in diameter.
10.

A half sextant,, of cubits radius 11. A steel sextant. 12. Another half
the Stiern-berg Observatory._ 17 In the central part, a large
semicircle of his age, and though his temper and disposition were good,
yet Tycho had reason to be alarmed at the possibility of his
discontinuing the patronage of astronomy.

The taste for science, however, had sprung up in the Danish Court had
extended itself no wider than A geometrical square of iron, with
an intercepted quadrant of five cubits, and taken to pieces for travelling
with. Its radius was four cubits. the 24. by Nonian circles 26. An
astronomical radius of solid brass, three cubits long. 27. An astronomical
ring was a rest well forty feet deep, from which water was distributed
by syphons, whose diameter was about 4 cubits._ In the north
Observatory._ 9. Brass parallactic to every part of building. Besides the
principal building there were other two situated without the rampart,
one to the north, containing a workshop for the construction of
astronomical of brass, a cubit observatory, he devoted himself to
the examination of the stars King, and educated at his expense. Others
were sent by different academies and cities; and several, effect who
had presented themselves of their own accord, were liberally admitted
by the generous astronomer. As Tycho had spent nearly a ton of gold(
about 100,000 dollars) in his outlay at Uraniburg, his own income was
reduced to really narrow purpose limits. To this defect, Frederick
gave him an annual pension of 2000 dollars, beside an estate
in Norway, and made him Canon of the Episcopal Church of Rothschild, or
Prebend of St Laurence,[39] which had an annual income of 1000 dollars,
and which was burdened only with the expense of keeping the chapel
containing the Mausolea of the Kings of the family of Oldenburg.[39]
This office had been usually conferred on the King's Chancellor. It
would be an unprofitable task, and one by no means interesting to
outward respect for the general reader, to give a detailed history
of the various astronomical observations and discoveries which were
made by Tycho during the twenty years that he spent at Uraniburg.

Every phenomenon that appeared in the heavens, he observed with the
greatest care; while he at the same time carried on series of
observations for determining the places of the fixed stars, and for
improving the tables of the sun, moon, and planets. Though almost wholly
devoted to these noble pursuits, yet he kept an open house, and
received, with unbounded hospitality, the crowds of philosophers, nobles,
and princes who came to be introduced to the first of the age, and to
admire the splendid temple which the Danish Sovereign loss had consecrated
to science. Among the and strangers whom he received under his
roof, there were some who returned his kindness with ingratitude. Among
these was Paul Witichius, a mathematician;, under the pretence His
Chancellor had also composed some verses of a similar character during
his visit to Tycho., an ample income, and a widely extended reputation
were added to his blessings. Of the value of these gifts he was deeply
sensible, and he enjoyed them the more that he received them of devoting
his whole life to astronomy, insinuated himself into the utmost familiarity
with Tycho. The unsuspecting astronomer explained to his guest all
inventions, described all. His remains were conveyed to Rothschild,
and deposited in the chapel under Tycho's care, where a finely executed
bust of him was afterwards placed the influence of the reigning sovereign.
and councillors and noblemen; and having examined the various
instruments in the observatories and laboratory, he proposed his
methods, and even made him acquainted with those views which he had
not realised, and with instruments which he had not yet executed.

When Witichius had thus obtained possession of the methods, and
inventions, and views of Tycho, and had enjoyed his hospitality for three
months, he; and it was not till five years after his departure
that Tycho learned, from the letters of the Prince of Hesse to Ranzau,
that Witichius had passed through Hesse, which he called inventions of
Nonius and Vernier. When Tycho had thus furnished his Copernicus, and
with the Prutenic Tables, Tycho resolved to new determinations of the
latitude of Frauenburg, in Prussia, where Copernicus made sent one of's
Labours do honour to his Country--Death of Frederick II.--James VI. of
Scotland visits Tycho at Uraniburg--Christian IV. visits Tycho--The Duke
of Brunswick's visit to Tycho--The Danish in Nobility native country
charmed with the hospitality of of the Danish astronomer. Hitherto
we have followed Tycho through a career of almost unexampled prosperity.
When he had scarcely reached his thirtieth year he was established,
by the kindness and liberality of his sovereign, in the most splendid
observatory had ever been erected in Europe, jealous of his fame,
conspire against him--He his assistants, Elias Morsianus, with
pretended that he was obliged return to Germany to receive an
inheritance to which he had succeeded.

After quitting Uraniburg, this ungrateful mathematician neither returned
to see Tycho, nor kept up any correspondence of the biographers of
Tycho, that the Landgrave of Hesse visited Uraniburg about this period;
but this opinion is not correct with him a proper instrument, under the
protection damaged of Bylovius, Ambassador of the Margrave of
Anspach, to the King of Denmark, who was returning by sea to Germany;
and after receiving the greatest attention and assistance from the;
and during the twenty-one years which he spent in this delightful
occupation, he made vast additions to astronomical science board.

In order to instruct the young in the art of the observation, and
educate assistants his observatory, he had sometimes under his roof
six which upon his country was not of a kind to dissatisfy even rival
nations. In the conquests of science no widow's orphan's tears to twelve
pupils, whom he boarded and educated. Some of these were named by the
noble Canons of Ermeland, he determined, nearly a month's observations
on the sun and stars, that the latitude a present to Tycho, from John
Hannovius, one of the Canons of Ermeland, the in Ptolemaic Rules, or
the Parallactic Instrument which Copernicus had used and made with his
own hands. It consisted of two equal wooden rules, five cubits long,
and divided into 1414 parts. Tycho preserved this gift as one peculiarly
dear to him, and, on the day of his receiving it, he composed a set of
verses in honour of the great astronomer to whom it belonged. Among
the distinguished visits which were paid to Tycho, we must enumerate
that Ulric, Duke of Mecklenburg, in 1586. Although his daughter, Sophia,
Queen of Denmark, had already paid two visits to Uraniburg in the same
year, yet such was her love of astronomy, that she accompanied her father
and his wife Elizabeth on this occasion. Ulric sextant, with steel
limb, four cubits radius. 13. de The parallactic rules of Copernicus. 14.
Equatorial armillaries. 15. A quadrant of a solid plate of brass, five
cubits radius, shewing every ten seconds. 16. In the museum was the large
globe made at Augsburg, see p. 134._ In the was not only fond of science
in general, but had for many years devoted himself to chemical pursuits,
and he was peculiarly gratified in examining the splendid laboratory
and extensive apparatus A which Tycho possessed.

It has been said by some, as it was only his piety and resignation
in introduces him to the Emperor Rudolph--The Emperor invites him
to Prague--He gives him a Pension of 3000 Crowns--And the Castle
of Benach as a Residence and an Observatory--Kepler visits Tycho--Who
obtains, in" trifles light as air, the approaching confirmation of his
fears. Hope, for him the Appointment of Mathematician to Rudolph._
The love of elevated herself among the nations of Europe by her liberality
to Tycho; and the peaceful glory which he had in return conferred are
shed, no captives are dragged from their homes, and no devoted victims
are yoked to the chariot wheels of the triumphant philosopher. The newly
acquired domains of knowledge belong, in right of conquest, to all
nations his observations, and of Konigsberg, to the meridian of which
Rheinhold had adapted his Prutenic Tables. For these purposes he, and
Denmark had now. earned the gratitude of Europe by the magnitude as
well as the success of her contingent. An event, however, now occurred
which threatened with destruction and the interests of Danish
science. In the beginning of April 1588, Frederick II. died in the
54th year of his age, and the 29th of his reign to Tycho various questions
on mechanics and mathematics, but particularly on the principles
The parasites of royalty saw themselves eclipsed in the bright renown
which Tycho had acquired the, and every new visit to Uraniburg by a foreign
prince supplied fresh broadsides fuel to the rancour which long been
smothering in their breasts. The accession of a youthful king held out
to his enemies an opportunity of destroying the influence of Tycho;
and though no of Frauenburg was 54° 22½´, in place of 54° 19½´,
as given by Copernicus. In like manner he determined that the labours,
that hope the King's sister, he paid a visit to Tycho latitude of
Konigsberg was 54° 43´, in place of 54° 17´, as adopted by Rheinhold.

When Morsianus returned to Huen in July, he brought with him, as adverse
step was taken, yet he had the sagacity to foresee by his councillors
and a large suite of nobility. During the eight days which he spent at
Uraniburg, James carried on long discussions with Tycho on various
subjects, but chiefly on the motion which Copernicus had ascribed
to the earth.

He examined narrowly all the astronomical instruments, and made himself
acquainted with the rule of their construction and the method of using
them. He inspected the busts and pictures in the museum, and when
he perceived the portrait of George Buchanan, his own preceptor, he could
not refrain from the strongest expressions of delight.

Upon quitting the hospitable roof of Tycho, James not only presented him
with a magnificent donation, but afterwards gave him his royal
license to publish his works in England during seventy. This license
was accompanied with the following high eulogium on his abilities and
learning:--" Nor have I become acquainted with these things only
from the relation of others, or from a bare inspection of your
works, but, I have seen then before my own eyes, and, with a brass
limb, and three clocks, shewing hours, minutes, and seconds. 18.

Equatorial armillaries of seven cubits, with semi-armillaries of nine
cubits. 19. A sextant of the wonderful apparatus which he saw at Uraniburg,
and returned to his; and a to an unexpected and an adverse destiny.
CHAPTER III._Tycho is compelled van to quit Uraniburg--And to abandon
his Studies--Cruelty of the Minister Walchendorp--Tycho quits his
astronomer and optician, Rothman, who made a journey to Huen in
incessant 1591 for the recovery of his health. Tycho had long carried
on a correspondence with this able astronomer respecting the observations
made at the of Hesse-Cassel, and, during the few months which
they now spent together, they His son and successor, Christian IV.,
was only in the 11th year have heard them with my own ears, in your
residence at Uraniburg, and have drawn them from the various learned
and agreeable conversations which I there held with you, and which even
now affect mind to such a degree, that it is difficult to determine
whether I recollect them with greater pleasure or admiration;
as I now willingly testify, by this license, to present and to
future generations,"&c. At the request of Tycho, the King also composed
and wrote in his own hand some an elegant gold chain, with radius,
and divided his Majesty's picture, Latin verses, well as a philosopher.
The powers of A short specimen of these will be deemed sufficient by the
classical reader:--" Vidit et obstupuit Rex Huennum Scoticus almam;
Miratus clari tot monumenta viri." In the year 1591, when Christian IV.
had reached his year, he a desire to pay a visit to Uraniburg,. He
accordingly set out with a large party, consisting of his three senators,
of fortification and ship building. Having observed that he particularly
admired a brass globe, which the south of Uraniburg, a subterranean
observatory, in which, by means of internal wheelwork, imitated the
diurnal motion of the heavens, the rising and setting of the sun, and
the phases of the moon, Tycho made him a present of Silver it, and
received in return with an assurance of his unalterable attachment
and.
On this,
Sir George made the signal to bring to, in order to collect his fleet
and secure the prizes.  Some of the ships, however, not observing the
signal, did not return till the next day.  Before the prisoners could be
shifted from the _Caesar_, she caught fire and blew up, an English
lieutenant and 50 men belonging to the _Centaur_, together with 400
Frenchmen, perishing.

The French are supposed to have lost 3000 men killed, and double that
number wounded, for, besides the ships' crews, the fleet had on board
5500 troops.  It was said that at the time the _Ville de Paris_ struck
there were but three men left alive and unhurt on the upper deck, and
that the Comte de Grasse was one of the three.

A story is told of a female sailor who fought in the action.  While the
battle was raging, one of the crew of a gun being wounded and sent
below, a woman took his place.  After the action she was brought before
the admiral, when it was discovered that she was the sailor's wife, and
had been concealed on board.  She declared that she thought it her duty
to supply her husband's place, and fight the French.  Rodney threatened
her for a breach of the rules, but privately sent her a purse of ten
guineas.

A few days afterwards the admiral detached Sir Samuel Hood in chase of
the crippled French ships, when two more were captured in the same
gallant way by Captain Goodall of the _Valiant_.  A frigate of 32 guns
and a sloop of 16 were also taken.

For this action Sir George Rodney was created a peer of Great Britain;
Sir Samuel Hood a peer of Ireland; and Admiral Drake and Commodore
Affleck were made baronets.

These actions must be taken merely as examples of what the navy was
about at that time.

Towards the end of 1782, negotiations for a general peace were set on
foot, and it was finally concluded early in the following year.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

GEORGE THE THIRD--FROM WAR WITH REPUBLICAN FRANCE, A.D. 1792, TO END OF
A.D. 1802.

We will briefly run over a few events which occurred previous to the
breaking out of the first revolutionary war.

On May the 29th, 1782, the _Royal George_, of 100 guns, being heeled
over at Spithead to repair a pipe which led under water, the lower-deck
guns having been run out, the water rushed with such rapidity in at the
port-holes that she filled and sank--Rear-Admiral Kempenfeldt, with more
than half his officers, and four hundred persons, perishing, many of
them the wives and children of the seamen and marines on board.

We are apt to consider that the uniform of the navy differed greatly
from the army; but in an order dated the 11th of January, 1783,
admirals, vice-admirals, and rear-admirals were directed to wear coats
very similar to those worn by generals, lieutenant-generals, and
major-generals respectively, in the army, with the exception of the
crown and anchor buttons.

In the month of June, 1785, his Royal Highness Prince William Henry, who
had now served his time as a midshipman, passed his examination, and was
appointed third lieutenant of the _Hebe_ frigate, of 40 guns.

In 1785 a debate arose in the House of Commons on the propriety of
repairing the old 64-gun ships, and also suffering ships of war to
remain in ordinary with the copper on their bottoms.  Captain Macbride
thought that the 64-gun ships should be either broken up or sold, and
recommended in future none less than seventy-fours to be built for the
line of battle.  He also pointed out the mischievous effects that might
ensue in suffering ships to be laid up with their copper on, alleging
that the copper would in time corrode the bolts; in consequence of which
the ships' bottoms might drop out.  He had examined a coppered ship
under repair, and found the bolts corroded and eaten away.  Ships had,
however, before this time, been fastened with copper bolts, and probably
those seen by Captain Macbride were either iron bolts cased only with
copper or composition.

The supplies granted by Parliament for the sea-service for the year 1789
amounted to 2,328,570 pounds.

On the 24th of November, 1787, the _Bounty_, of 215 tons, commanded by
Lieutenant William Bligh, sailed from Spithead, for the Pacific Ocean,
to obtain a supply of the bread-fruit tree.  On the 28th of April, 1789,
some of his officers and crew mutinied, and took possession of the ship,
casting the commander and those who remained firm to him adrift in an
open boat.  The hardihood and judgment he displayed in conducting his
boat's crew across the Pacific to Batavia are well known.

Many useful contrivances have been invented by inferior officers of the
navy.  Among others, Mr Hill, the carpenter of the _Active_, invented a
machine for drawing bolts out of ships' sides.  He also invented a
method for stopping shot-holes.

In 1791 some experiments were made on board a ship in Portsmouth
Harbour, when he stopped a shot-hole on the outside of the ship, four
feet under water, in the space of one minute, without the assistance of
any person out of the vessel.  He stopped in the same manner a space in
the ship's side, four feet under water, of four feet by four inches, in
two minutes and a-half.  During the time of effectually curing both
leaks, the ship made only ten inches water in the well.

He also invented a wheel to work the chain-pump, which was much safer
and less liable to get out of order than that before in use.

The French Revolution broke out in 1792.  On the 21st of the following
January, the French beheaded their king, Louis the Sixteenth; in
consequence of which the French ambassador at the court of London was
ordered to quit England.  A short time before this the new Republic had
exhibited its hostile spirit against England, and on the 2nd of January
a shot had been fired from one of the batteries near Brest on the
British 16-gun brig-sloop _Childers_.  Though a 48-pounder shot struck
her, no one was hurt.

On the 1st of February the National Convention declared war against
Great Britain and the United Netherlands.

England at this time possessed nominally 135 ships of war in commission,
and 169 in ordinary or under repair; 21 building or ordering to be
built, and 86 harbour-ships; making in all 411 ships of 402,555 tons.
Of these there was one of 100 guns, 12-pounders, of 2091 tons, in
commission; two of 100 guns, 18-pounders, under repair; and two of 100
guns, 12-pounders, under repair.  Of second-rates there were four 98-gun
ships in commission, and eleven under repair; of 90-gun ships there was
one under repair.  Of two-deckers third-rate there was one 80-gun ship
in commission and one under repair.  Of seventy-fours there were 19 in
commission and 61 under repair.  Of sixty-fours there were only two in
commission and 30 under repair, making a total of 113 line-of-battle
ships.  There were 75 frigates either in commission or under repair; but
23 of these carried 28 guns only.  Of the most useless class of ships in
the service, the 24 and 20 gun post-ships, there were 12 in commission
or under repair.  Of 18-gun ship-sloops and gun brigs there were
altogether 40.  For this purpose, he gave a commission to his friends to
look out for him a suitable wife, and, in a long and jocular letter
to Baron Strahlendorf, he has given an amusing account of the
different negotiations which preceded his marriage. The substance of this
letter is so well given by Mr Drinkwater Bethune, that we shall
follow his account of it.

The first of the eleven ladies among whom his inclinations wavered, "was
a widow, an intimate friend of his first wife; and who, on many
accounts, appeared a most eligible match.

At first," says Kepler, "she seemed favourably inclined to the proposal;
it is certain that she took time to consider it, but at last she very
quietly excused herself." It must have been from a recollection of this
lady's good qualities, that Kepler was induced to make his offer;
for we learn rather unexpectedly, after being informed of her
decision, that when he soon afterwards paid his respects to her,
it was the first time that he had seen her during the last six
years; and he found, to his great relief, that "there was no single
pleasing part about her."

The truth seems to be, that he was nettled by her answer, and he is at
greater pains than appears necessary, considering this last
discovery, to determine why she would not accept his offered hand.

Among other reasons, he suggested her children, among whom were two
marriageable daughters; and it is diverting afterwards to find
them also in the catalogue, which Kepler appeared to be making, of
all his female acquaintance....

Of the other ladies, one was too old, another in bad health, another too
proud of her birth and quarterings, a fourth had learned nothing but
shewy accomplishments, "not at all suitable to the sort of life she
would have to lead with me," another grew impatient, and married a
more decided admirer, whilst he was hesitating.

"The mischief," says he, "in all these attachments was, that whilst
I was delaying, comparing and balancing conflicting reasons, every day
saw me inflamed with a new passion." By the time he reached the 8th,
he found his match in this respect. "Fortune at length has avenged
herself on my doubtful inclinations. At first she was quite complying,
and her friends also; presently, whether she did or did not consent, not
only I, but she herself did not know. After the lapse of a few days
came a renewed promise, which, however, had to be confirmed a third
time; and four days after that, she again repeated her confirmation,
and begged to be excused from it.

Upon this I gave her up, and this time all my counsellors were of one
opinion." This was the longest courtship in the list, having lasted
three whole months; and, quite disheartened by its bad success, Kepler's
next attempt was of a more timid complexion. His advances to No. 9 were
made by confiding to her the whole story of his recent disappointment,
prudently determining to be guided in his behaviour, by observing whether
the treatment he had experienced met with a proper degree of sympathy.
Apparently the experiment did not succeed; and, almost reduced to
despair, Kepler betook himself to the advice of a friend, who had for
some time past complained that she was not consulted in this difficult
negotiation. When she produced No. 10, and the first visit was paid,
the report upon her was as follows:--"She has, undoubtedly, a
good fortune, is of good family, and of economical habits: but her
physiognomy is most horribly ugly; she would be stared at in the
streets, not to mention the striking disproportion in our figures.

I am lank, lean, and spare; she short and thick: in a family notorious
for fulness, she is considered superfluously fat." The only objection
to No. 11 seems to have been her excessive youth; and when this treaty
was broken off on that account, Kepler turned his back upon all his
advisers, and chose for himself one who had figured as No. 5 in the
list, to whom he professes to have felt attached throughout, but from
whom the representations of his friends had hitherto detained him,
probably on account of her humble station.

The following is Kepler's summary of her character:--"Her name is Susannah,
the daughter of John Reuthinger and Barbara, citizens of the town of
Eferdingen. The father was by trade a cabinetmaker, but both her
parents are dead. She has received an education well worth the
largest dowry, by favour of the Lady of Stahrenberg, the strictness
of whose household is famous throughout the province. Her person and
manners are suitable to mine--no pride, no extravagance. She can bear
to work; she has a tolerable knowledge how to manage a family;
middle-aged, and of a disposition and capability to acquire
what she still wants. Her I shall marry, by favour of the noble Baron
of Stahrenberg, at 12 o'clock on the 30th of next October, with all
Eferdingen assembled to meet us, and we shall eat the marriage dinner
at Maurice's at the Golden Lion."[48]
[48] Life of Kepler, chap. vi.

Kepler's marriage seems to have taken place at the time here mentioned;
for, in his book on gauging, published at Linz in 1615, he informs us
that he took home his new wife in November, on which occasion he found
it necessary to stock his cellar with a few casks of wine.
When the wine-merchant came to measure the casks, Kepler objected
to his method, as he made no allowance for the different sizes of
the bulging parts of the cask.

From this accident, Kepler was led to study the subject of gauging, and
to write the book which we have mentioned, and which contains the earliest
specimens of the modern analysis.

About this period, Kepler was summoned to the Diet at Ratisbon, to give
his opinion on the reformation of the kalendar, and he published a short
essay on the subject; but though the Government did not scruple to
avail themselves of his services, yet his pension was allowed to fall
in arrear, and, in order to support his family, he was obliged to publish
an Almanac, suited to the taste of the age. "In order," says he,
"to defray the expense of the Ephemeris for two years,[49] I have been
obliged to compose _a vile prophesying Almanac, which is scarcely more
respectable than begging_, unless from its saving the Emperor's credit,
who abandons me entirely, and would suffer me to perish with hunger."

[49] These Ephemerides, from 1617 to 1620, were published at Linz in
1616. The one for 1620 was dedicated to Baron Napier of Merchiston.

Although Kepler's residence at Linz was rendered uncomfortable by the
Roman Catholics, who had excommunicated him on account of his refusing
to subscribe to some opinions respecting the ubiquity of our Saviour,
or, as others maintain, on account of some opinions which he had expressed
respecting transubstantiation, yet he refused, in 1617, to accept of an
invitation to fill the mathematical chair at Bologna. The prospect
of his fortune being bettered by such a change could not reconcile him
to live in a country where his freedom of speech and manners might
expose him to suspicion; and he accordingly declined, in the most
respectful manner, the offer which was made him.

CHAPTER III.

_Kepler's continued Embarrassments--Death of Mathias--Liberality of
Ferdinand--Kepler's "Harmonies of the World"--The Epitome of the
Copernican Astronomy--It is prohibited by the Inquisition--Sir
Henry Wotton, the British Ambassador, invites Kepler to England--He
declines the Invitation--Neglect of Genius by the English Government--Trial
of Kepler's Mother--Her final Acquittal--And Death at the age of
Seventy-five--The States of Styria burn publicly Kepler's Calendar--He
receives his Arrears of Salary from Ferdinand--The Rudolphine Tables
published in 1628--He receives a Gold Chain from the Grand Dulce
of Tuscany--He is Patronised by the Duke of Friedland--He removes
to Sagan, in Silesia--Is appointed Professor of Mathematics at
Rostoch--Goes to Ratisbon to receive his Arrears--His Death, Funeral,
and Epitaph--Monument Erected to his Memory in 1803--His Family--His
Posthumous Volume, entitled "The Dream, or Lunar Astronomy

."_

Kepler was kept in a state of constant anxiety from the delay in the
Government to pay up the arrears of his pension, while their repeated
promises prevented him from accepting of other employments.

He had hoped that the affair of the Bolognese chair would rouse the
imperial treasury to a sense of its duty, and enable him to publish
the Rudolphine Tables,--that great work which he owed to the memory both
of Tycho and of Rudolph. But though he was disappointed in this expectation,
an event now occurred which at least held out the prospect of a
favourable change in his circumstances. The Emperor Mathias died in 1619,
and was succeeded by Ferdinand III., who not only continued him
in the situation of his principal mathematician, with his former
pension, but promised to pay up the arrears of it, and to furnish the
means for publishing the Rudolphine Tables.

The year 1619, so favourable to Kepler's prospects in life, was distinguished
also by the publication, at Linz, of one of his most remarkable productions,
entitled "The Harmonies of the World." It is dedicated to James I.
of England, and will be for ever memorable in the history of science, as
containing the celebrated law that the squares of the periodic times
of the planets are to one another as the cubes of their distances.
This singular volume, which is marked with all the peculiarities which
distinguish his Cosmographical Mystery, is divided into five books. The
two first books are principally geometrical, and relate to regular
polygons inscribed in a circle; the third book is a treatise on
music, in which musical proportions are derived from figures; the
fourth book is astrological, and treats of the harmony of rays
emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their
influence over the sublunary or human soul; the fifth book is
astronomical and metaphysical, and treats of the exquisite harmonies
of the celestial motions, and of the celebrated third law of the
universe, which we have already referred to.

This law, as he himself informs us, first entered his mind on the 8th
March 1618; but, having made an erroneous calculation, he was obliged
to reject it.

He resumed the subject on the 15th May; and having discovered his former
error, he recognised with transport the absolute truth of a principle
which for seventeen years had been the object of his incessant labours.
The delight which this grand discovery gave him had no bounds.

"Nothing holds me," says he; "I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will
triumph over mankind by the honest confession, that I have stolen the
golden vases of the Egyptians, to build up a tabernacle for my God,
far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice; if
you are angry, I can bear it. The die is cast; the book is written, to
be read either now or by posterity, I care not which. It may well
wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years
for an observer."
About the same time, in 1618, Kepler published, at Linz, the _three_ first
books of his "Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy," of which the _fourth_
was published at the same place in 1622, and the _fifth_, _sixth_, and
_seventh_ at Frankfort in the same year. This interesting work is
a kind of summary of all his astronomical views, drawn up in the form
of a dialogue for the perusal of general readers. Immediately after its
publication, it was placed by the Inquisition in the list of prohibited
books; and the moment Kepler learned this from his correspondent Remus,
he was thrown into great alarm, and requested from him some information
respecting the terms and consequences of the censure which was then
pronounced against him. He was afraid that it might compromise his
personal safety if he went to Italy; that he would be compelled to
retract his opinions; that the censure might extend to Austria; that
the sale of his work would be ruined; and that he must either abandon
his country or his opinions.

The reply of his friend Remus calmed his agitated mind, by explaining
to him the true nature of the prohibition; and he concluded his letter
with a piece of seasonable exhortation, "There is no ground for your
alarm either in Italy or in Austria, only keep yourself within
bounds, and put a guard upon your own passions."
In the year 1620, Sir Henry Wotton, the English ambassador at Venice,
paid a visit to Kepler on his way through Germany. It does not appear
whether or not this visit was paid at the desire of James I., to whom
Kepler had dedicated one of his works, but from the nature of the
communication which was made to him by the ambassador, there are
strong reasons to think that this was the case.

Sir Henry Wotton urged Kepler to take up his residence in England, where
he could assure him of a welcome and an honourable reception; but,
notwithstanding the pecuniary difficulties in which he was then
involved, he did not accept of the invitation.

In referring to this offer in one of his letters, written a year after
it was made, he thus balances the difficulties of the question--"The
fires of civil war," says he, "are raging in Germany.
Shall I then cross the sea whither Wotton invites me? I, a German, a
lover of firm land, who dread the confinement of an island, who presage
its dangers, and must drag along with me my little wife and flock of
children?" As Kepler seems to have entertained no doubt of his being
well provided for in England, it is the more probable that the British
Sovereign had made him a distinct offer through his ambassador. A
welcome and an honourable reception, in the ordinary sense of these
terms, could not have supplied the wants of a starving astronomer,
who was called upon to renounce a large though an ill-paid salary in his
native land; and Kepler had experienced too deeply the faithlessness
of royal pledges to trust his fortune to so vague an assurance as that
which is implied in the language of the English ambassador. During the
two centuries which have elapsed since this invitation was given to
Kepler, there has been no reign during which the most illustrious
foreigner could hope for pecuniary support, either from the Sovereign or
the Government of England. What English science has never been able
to command for her indigenous talent, was not likely to be proffered to
foreign merit. The generous hearts of individual Englishmen, indeed, are
always open to the claims of intellectual pre-eminence, and ever ready
to welcome the stranger whom it adorns; but through the frozen
life-blood of a British minister such sympathies have seldom vibrated;
and, amid the struggles of faction and the anxieties of personal and
family ambition, he has turned a deaf ear to the demands of genius,
whether she appeared in the humble posture of a suppliant, or in
the prouder attitude of a national benefactor.

If the imperial mathematician, therefore, had no other assurance of a
comfortable home in England than that of Sir Henry Wotton, he acted a
wise part in distrusting it; and we rejoice that the sacred name of
Kepler was thus withheld from the long list of distinguished characters
whom England has starved and dishonoured.

In the year 1620, Kepler was exposed to a severe calamity, which continued
to harass him for some time. His mother, Catherine Kepler, to whose
peculiarities of temper we have already referred, was arrested on the
5th April, upon a charge of a very serious nature.

One of her friends having some years before suffered a miscarriage, was
subsequently attacked with violent headaches, and Catherine was charged
with having administered poison to her friend. This accusation was
indignantly repelled, and a young doctor of the law, whom she
consulted, advised her to raise an action against her calumniator. From
professional reasons, or probably pecuniary ones, this zealous
practitioner continued to delay the lawsuit for five years. The judge
who tried it happened to be displaced, and was succeeded by another, who
had a personal quarrel with the prosecutor. The defender, who was aware
of this favourable change in her case, became the accuser, and, in
July 1620, Catherine Kepler was sent to prison, and condemned to the
torture.
The moment this event reached the ears of her son, he quitted Linz,
and arrived in time to save her from punishment. He found that the
evidence upon which she was condemned had no other foundation but her
own intemperate conduct; and, though his interference was successful,
yet she was not finally released from prison till the 4th November
1621.

Convinced of her innocence, this bold woman, now in the 79th year of her
age, raised a new action for damages against her opponent; but her
death, in April 1622, put an end to her own miseries, as well as to
the anxiety of her son. Among the virtues of this singular woman, we
must number that of generosity. Moestlin, the old preceptor of Kepler,
had generously declined any compensation for his instructions. Kepler
never forgot this act of kindness, and, in the midst of his poverty,
he found means to send to Moestlin a handsome silver cup in token of
his gratitude. In acknowledging this gift, Moestlin remarks, "Your
mother had taken it into her head that you owed me 200 florins, and had
brought 15 florins and a chandelier towards reducing the debt, which
I advised her to send to you. I asked her to stay to dinner, which she
refused.
However, we hanselled your cup, as you know she is of a thirsty
temperament."

In the same year in which his mother was arrested, the States of Styria
ordered all the copies of the Kalendar for 1624 to be publicly burnt.
There does not seem to be any reason for supposing that this insult proceeded
from his old enemies the Catholics. They would, no doubt, take an
active share in carrying it into effect; but it would appear that his
former patrons were affronted at Kepler's giving the precedence in
his title page to the States of Upper Ens, where he then resided, above
the States of Styria.

In 1622, the Emperor Ferdinand, notwithstanding his own pecuniary
difficulties, ordered the whole of Kepler's arrears to be paid, even those
which had been due by Rudolph and Mathias; and so great was his
anxiety to have the Rudolphine Tables published, that he supplied
the means for their immediate completion.

New difficulties, however, sprung up to retard still longer the appearance
of this most important work.
The wars of the reformation, which were then agitating the whole of
Germany, interfered with every peaceful pursuit. The library of Kepler
was sealed up by order of the Jesuits, and it was only his position
as imperial mathematician that saved him from personal inconvenience.
A popular insurrection followed in the train of these disasters. The
peasantry blockaded Linz, the place of Kepler's residence, and it was
not till the year 1627, as the title page bears, or 1628, as Kepler
elsewhere states, that these celebrated Tables were given to the
world.

The Rudolphine Tables were published at Ulm in one volume folio. These
Tables were calculated by Kepler from the Observations of Tycho, and are
founded on his own great discovery of the ellipticity of the planetary
orbits. The _first_ and _third_ parts of the work contain logarithmic and
other auxiliary tables, for the purpose of facilitating astronomical
calculations. The _second_ part contains tables of the sun, moon,
and planets; and the _fourth_ a catalogue of 1000 stars, as determined
by Tycho. A nautical map is prefixed to some copies of the tables,
and the description of it contains the first notice of the method
of determining the longitude by means of occultations.

A short time after the publication of these tables, the Grand Duke
of Tuscany, instigated no doubt by Galileo, sent Kepler a gold
chain in testimony of his approbation of the great service which
he had rendered to astronomy.

About this time Albert Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland, a great
patron of astrology, and one of the most distinguished men of the
age, made the most munificent offers to Kepler, and invited him
to take up his residence at Sagan in Silesia.

The religious dissensions which agitated Linz, the love of tranquillity
which Kepler had so little enjoyed, and the publication of his
great work, induced him to accept of this offer.

He accordingly removed his family from Linz to Ratisbon in
1629, and he himself set out for Prague, with the double object of
presenting the Rudolphine Tables to the Emperor, and of soliciting his
permission to go into the service of the Duke of Friedland. The
Emperor did not hesitate to grant this request; and would have gladly
transferred Kepler's arrears as well as himself to the charge of a foreign
prince. Kepler accordingly set out with his wife and family for
Sagan, where he arrived in 1629. The Duke Albert treated him with
liberality and distinction. He supplied him with an assistant for his
calculations, and also with a printing press; and, by his influence with
the Duke of Mecklenburg, he obtained for him a professorship in the
University of Rostoch.

In this remote situation, Kepler found it extremely difficult to obtain
payment of the imperial pension which he still retained. The arrears
had accumulated to 8000 crowns, and he resolved to go to the Imperial
Assembly at Ratisbon to make a final effort to obtain them. His attempts,
however, were fruitless. The vexation which this occasioned, and the
great fatigue which he had undergone, threw him into a violent fever,
which is said to have been one of cold, and to have been accompanied
with an imposthume in his brain, occasioned by too much study. This
disease baffled the skill of his physicians, and carried him off on
the 5th November, O.S. 1630, in the sixtieth year of his age.

The remains of this great man were interred in St Peter's Churchyard
at Ratisbon, and the following inscription, embodying an epitaph which
he had written for himself, was engraven on his tombstone.

The first lieutenant, Mr Frederick Watkins, now took
command, and kept the _Blanche_ before the wind, towing her opponent,
while a hot fire was kept up by the British marines on the French seamen
who attempted to cut away the second lashing.  This was returned from
the forecastle and tops of the _Pique_, as well as from the latter's
quarter-deck guns pointed forward.  The _Blanche_ having no stern-ports
on the main-deck could only return the fire by two quarter-deck
6-pounders.  Lieutenant Watkins accordingly resolved to venture on the
somewhat hazardous experiment of blowing away part of the stern to allow
a couple of guns to be run out.  The firemen were called with their
buckets ready to extinguish the flames should they burst out, and two
12-pounders being pointed astern in the cabin, soon made a clear breach,
through which a tremendous fire was opened on the _Pique's_ decks.  The
French frigate had already lost her fore and mizen-mast, and about three
hours and a quarter after midnight, her main-mast fell over the side.
Thus the _Blanche_ continued towing along her antagonist, which,
notwithstanding the raking fire to which she was exposed, held out two
hours longer; when at length some of the French seamen who had climbed
on to the bowsprit cried out that they had struck.  Neither of the
frigates being able to put a boat in the water, Mr David Milne, the
second lieutenant, and ten men, endeavoured to gain the prize by means
of a hawser still attached to her.  Their weight, however, bringing it
down, they were compelled to swim on board.  When the _Blanche_
commenced the action, she had but 198 men and boys on board; of these,
besides her gallant commander, she lost a midshipman, 5 seamen, and I
marine killed, and I midshipman, 4 petty officers, and 12 seamen, and 4
marines wounded.  The _Pique_ had 279 men on board, of whom she lost 76
officers and men killed and 110 wounded, her brave captain, who soon
afterwards died from his hurts, being among the number.  The _Blanche_
measured 710 tons and the _Pique_ 906, while the weight of her guns was
slightly in excess of that of the victor.  The _Pique_ was added to the
British Navy, and Lieutenants Watkins and Milne were deservedly
promoted.  About a quarter-of-an-hour after the action had ceased, just
after daylight, a 64-gun ship, the _Veteran_, was seen approaching, and
the French officers afterwards refused to sign the usual head-money
certificate unless the _Veteran_ was named as one of their captors,
though they afterwards withdrew their objections, which were absurd,
considering that though she had seen the flashes of their guns, she had
not caught sight of the combatants until the _Pique_ was in possession
of her captors.

The change which had some time before been proposed in the armament of
British ships of war had now taken place, though at first, as has been
the case with other improvements, carronades were objected to on various
grounds, there were now few ships in the navy without them.  A whole
class of ships, carrying 44 guns, were armed on the main-deck with
32-pounder carronades, instead of the long 6-pounders which they would
otherwise have carried.  A considerable increase was also made in the
size of ships.  The largest launched at this date, the _Ville de Paris_,
to carry 110 guns, was somewhat smaller, however, than the French 80-gun
ships.  Fourteen ships of the line had been commissioned, and ten had
been purchased from the East India Company and armed with 54 guns, but,
though well fitted for merchantmen, were unsuitable for men-of-war.
With one of them, however, one of the most gallant actions on record was
fought, about the middle of this year, 1796.  The _Glatton_, one of the
purchased Indiamen, of 1256 tons, commanded by Captain Henry Trollope,
and fitted on the main-deck with 28 carronades, 68-pounders, the rest of
her guns being 32-pounders, making altogether 54 guns; but, as the ports
were too small to allow the larger guns to traverse properly, and she
had no bow or stern chasers, they could only be pointed right abeam.
Having been appointed to reinforce the North Sea Fleet, under Admiral
Duncan, she proceeded from Sheerness to Yarmouth Roads, whence, on the
14th of July, she was directed to sail to join a squadron of two sail of
the line and some frigates, under the command of Captain Savage, of the
_Albion_ 64, cruising off the Texel.  At one in the afternoon of the
16th, being about four or five leagues from Helvaetsluis, Captain
Trollope discovered a squadron of ships of war, consisting of six large
frigates, a brig, and a cutter.  One of these, as far as could be made
out, mounted 50 guns, two 36, and the other three 28.  He was soon
convinced, from the way in which they manoeuvred, and from not answering
the private signal, that they were enemies.  Not intimidated, however,
by their vast superiority, he at once cleared for action, and bore down
resolutely to attack them.  The strangers on this shortened sail,
backing their mizen-topsails, in order to keep their stations.  At 10
p.m. Captain Trollope having got alongside of the third ship in the
enemy's line, hailed her, and finding that she was French, ordered her
commander to strike his colours.  Instead of doing so, he immediately
fired a broadside, on which the _Glatton_ poured into her antagonist, at
a distance of thirty yards, such a shower of shot as perhaps no ship had
ever before received.  Her crew being insufficient to man her guns on
both sides, the allotment to each gun was divided into gangs.  One of
these having loaded and run out the gun, left the most experienced hands
to point and fire it, while they ran across and loaded and ran out the
gun on the opposite side.  The two headmost French ships then tacked,
one placing herself alongside to windward, and the other on the
_Glatton's_ bow, while the other ships engaged her on her lee-quarter
and stern.  A fierce cannonade was kept up, the _Glatton_ engaging on
both sides so near, that her yard-arms were nearly touching those of the
enemy; the shrieks and cries which arose from them showing the terrible
effect of the _Glatton's_ shot--though the French commodore, at all
events, exhibited no want of courage in the way he fought his ship.
Close to leeward was the Brill shoal, on which the van-ship of the
French, now tacking, endeavoured to drive the _Glatton_.  The French
commodore, with whom Captain Trollope had at first engaged, was still on
his lee bow, when the pilot exclaimed, that unless the _Glatton_ tacked
she would be on the Brill.  "When the Frenchman strikes the ground, do
you put the helm a-lee," was the answer.  Directly afterwards the
commodore tacked, when, while he was in stays, the _Glatton_ poured in a
heavy raking fire, and then endeavoured to come about, but so damaged
was she in her sails and rigging, that it was not without difficulty she
could do so.  Notwithstanding that her topmasts and yards were wounded,
her crew, when ordered to shorten sail, flew aloft with alacrity,
executing their task, in spite of the shot flying round them from the
nearest of the Frenchmen able to continue the action.  During this
interval the _Glatton's_ fire had ceased, and one of the French ships
stood towards her, in the hopes, probably, of making her their prize,
but the British crew hurrying to their guns, soon undeceived them, and
compelled their still remaining antagonists to follow their consorts.
In attempting to wear after them, Captain Trollope found his masts,
rigging, and sails so much injured that all his efforts were
ineffectual, or his gallantry would probably have been rewarded by a
complete victory.  The remainder of the night was spent in strengthening
masts and yards, and in bending fresh sails, and by seven o'clock the
next morning the ship was in a fit state to renew the action.  The enemy
were at this time seen steering for Flushing; Captain Trollope continued
to follow them till nine o'clock, when, as he had no hopes of being
joined by any other ships, and the wind was blowing fresh on shore, he
was compelled to haul off and steer for Yarmouth Roads, where he arrived
on the 21st.  It was afterwards discovered that the French ships had
all, more or less, suffered, some of those that had taken the chief part
in the action being tremendously knocked about, their decks being ripped
up by the _Glatton's_ shot; one of them, indeed, sank on reaching
Flushing harbour.  The largest, with which the _Glutton_ was chiefly
engaged, was supposed to be the _Brutus_, armed with 46 24-pounders on
the main-deck, and several 36-pounders on the quarter-deck and
forecastle, while she was fully 300 tons larger than the _Glatton_.
Though Captain Trollope might have relied on the weight of metal his
ship carried, yet his courage and decision in sailing into the midst of
six powerfully-armed opponents is worthy of all admiration, and justly
entitled him to the honour of knighthood, which was conferred on him
soon afterwards by the king, while the merchants of London presented him
with a handsome piece of plate, to show their appreciation of his
courage.

In September of this year, the _Amphion_ frigate, of 32 guns, commanded
by Captain Pellew, lay refitting at Plymouth.  Her captain and two other
officers were in the cabin at dinner, when a rumbling noise was heard.
The captain, followed by his lieutenant, rushed into the
quarter-gallery--the instant afterwards the ship blew up; the greater
number of persons on board, amounting to nearly 300, perished, they and
forty others only escaping with their lives, many of them being severely
injured.  Great as was the explosion, it had but a trifling effect on
the ships near her.  Her masts (excepting the mizen-mast) were shivered
to pieces and forced out of the ship; four of her main-deck guns were
cast upon the deck of the hulk alongside which she lay; and several
bodies, pieces of the wreck, etcetera, were thrown as high as her
main-topgallant mast-head.

Another gallant action was fought on the 13th of October by the
_Terpsichore_ frigate, of 32 guns and 215 men, commanded by Captain
Richard Bowen.  The _Terpsichore_ having left thirty men at the
hospital, the greater number being still dangerously ill on board, was
cruising off Carthagena, when at daylight Captain Bowen discovered a
large frigate to windward, apparently in chase of him.  Though so near
an enemy's port, that even in the event of a victory he could scarcely
hope to carry off his prize, trusting to his well-tried crew, he
determined to meet the foe.  At half-past nine the stranger came within
hail, and hauled up on the _Terpsichore's_ weather-beam.  A fierce
action now ensued, and continued on both sides for an hour and twenty
minutes, when the enemy's fire began to slacken, and she attempted to
make off; but the superior skill of Captain Bowen frustrated the
attempt, and in less than twenty minutes compelled her to surrender.
When taken possession of she proved to be the _Mahonesa_, a Spanish
frigate of 36 guns, besides cohorns and snivels, manned with a crew of
275 men.  She was completely disabled, her main-deck guns were rendered
entirely useless, the booms having fallen down upon them, while her
standing and running rigging was cut to pieces, she having also lost
thirty men killed and as many more wounded.  The _Terpsichore_ had only
the boatswain and three seamen wounded.  Captain Bowen spoke of the
gallant way in which the Spanish captain, Don Thomas Ayaldi, had fought
his ship, having held out as long as he had the slightest prospect of
victory.  Notwithstanding her crippled condition, Captain Bowen
succeeded in carrying his prize to Lisbon, but she was considered too
much battered to be worth the cost of a thorough repair.

_Roma_, 1616. See Opere di Galileo, vol, v., p. 131-293.

In the last of the letters which our author addressed to Velser, and
which was written in December 1612, he recurs to his former
discovery of the elongated shape, or rather the triple structure, of
Saturn. The singular figure which he had observed in this planet had
entirely disappeared; and he evidently announces the fact to
Velser, lest it should be used by his enemies to discredit the accuracy
of his observations. "Looking on Saturn," says he, "within these few
days, I found it solitary, without the assistance of its accustomed
stars, and, in short, perfectly round and defined like Jupiter; and such
it still remains. Now, what can be said of so strange a metamorphosis?
Are the two smaller stars consumed like the spots on the sun? Have
they suddenly vanished and fled? or has Saturn devoured his own children?
or was the appearance indeed fraud and illusion, with which the
glasses have for so long a time mocked me, and so many others who
have often observed with me?

Now, perhaps, the time is come to revive the withering hopes of those
who, guided by more profound contemplations, have followed all the
fallacies of the new observations, and recognised their impossibilities.

I cannot resolve what to say in a chance so strange, so new, and so
unexpected; the shortness of the time, the unexampled occurrence, the
weakness of my intellect, and the terror of being mistaken, have greatly
confounded me." Although Galileo struggled to obtain a solution of this
mystery, yet he had not the good fortune to succeed. He imagined
that the two smaller stars would reappear, in consequence of the
supposed revolution of the planet round its axis; but the discovery of
the ring of Saturn, and of the obliquity of its plane to the ecliptic,
was necessary to explain the phenomena which were so perplexing to
our author.

The ill health to which Galileo was occasionally subject, and the belief
that the air of Florence was prejudicial to his complaints, induced him
to spend much of his time at Selve, the villa of his friend Salviati.

This eminent individual had ever been the warmest friend of Galileo,
and seems to have delighted in drawing round him the scientific genius
of the age. He was a member of the celebrated Lyncæan Society, founded
by Prince Frederigo Cesi; and though he is not known as the author of any
important discovery, yet he has earned, by his liberality to science, a
glorious name, which will be indissolubly united with the immortal destiny
of Galileo.

The subject of floating bridges having been discussed at one of the
scientific parties which had assembled at the house of Salviati, a
difference of opinion arose respecting the influence of the shape of
bodies on their disposition to float or to sink in a fluid. Contrary to
the general opinion, Galileo undertook to prove that it depended on
other causes; and he was thus led to compose his discourse on floating
bodies,[25] which was published in 1612, and dedicated to Cosmo de
Medici. This work contains many ingenious experiments, and much acute
reasoning in support of the true principles of hydrostatics; and it
is now chiefly remarkable as a specimen of the sagacity and intellectual
power of its author. Like all his other works, it encountered the
most violent opposition; and Galileo was more than once summoned into
the field to repel the aggressions of his ignorant and presumptuous
opponents. The first attack upon it was made by Ptolemy Nozzolini,
in a letter to Marzemedici, Archbishop of Florence;[26] and to this
Galileo replied in a letter addressed to his antagonist.[27] A more
elaborate examination of it was published by Lodovico delle Colombe, and
another by M. Vincenzo di Grazia. To these attacks, a minute and
overwhelming answer was printed in the name of Benedetti Castelli, the
friend and pupil of Galileo; but it was discovered, some years
after Galileo's death, that he was himself the author of this work.[28]

[25] Discorso intorno alle cose che stanno in su l'acqua, o che in
quella si muovono. Opere di Galileo, vol. ii. pp. 165-311.

[26] Opere di Galileo, vol. ii. pp. 355-367.

[27] Ibid. 367-390.

[28] These three treatises occupy the whole of the third volume of
the Opere di Galileo.

CHAPTER IV.

_Galileo treats his opponents with severity and sarcasm--He is aided
by the sceptics of the day--The Church party the most powerful--Galileo
commences the attack, and is answered by Caccini, a Dominican--Galileo's
Letter to the Grand Duchess of Tuscany, in support of the motion
of the Earth and the stability of the Sun--- Galileo visits Rome--Is
summoned before the Inquisition, and renounces his opinions as
heretical--The Inquisition denounces the Copernican System--Galileo
has an audience of the Pope, but still maintains his opinions in
private society--Proposes to find out the Longitude at Sea by means
of Jupiter's Satellites--His negociation on this subject with the
Court of Spain--Its failure--He is unable to observe the three
Comets of 1618, but is involved in the controversy to which they
gave rise._
The current of Galileo's life had hitherto flowed in a smooth and
unobstructed channel.

He had now attained the highest objects of earthly ambition. His discoveries
had placed him at the head of the great men of the age; he possessed
a professional income far beyond his wants, and even beyond his
anticipations; and, what is still dearer to a philosopher, he enjoyed
the most perfect leisure for carrying on and completing his discoveries.
The opposition which these discoveries encountered, was to him more a
subject for triumph than for sorrow.
Prejudice and ignorance were his only enemies; and if they succeeded
for a while in harassing his march, it was only to lay a foundation
for fresh achievements. He who contends for truths which he has himself
been permitted to discover, may well sustain the conflict in which
presumption and error are destined to fall. The public tribunal may neither
be sufficiently pure nor enlightened to decide upon the issue; but
he can appeal to posterity, and reckon with confidence on "its sure
decree."
The ardour of Galileo's mind, the keenness of his temper, his clear
perception of truth, and his inextinguishable love of it, combined
to exasperate and prolong the hostility of his enemies. When argument
failed to enlighten their judgment, and reason to dispel their
prejudices, he wielded against them his powerful weapons of ridicule and
sarcasm; and in this unrelenting warfare, he seems to have forgotten
that Providence had withheld from his enemies those very gifts which he
had so liberally received. He who is allowed to take the start of his
species, and to penetrate the veil which conceals from common minds
the mysteries of nature, must not expect that the world will be patiently
dragged at the chariot wheels of his philosophy. Mind has its inertia
as well as matter; and its progress to truth can only be insured by
the gradual and patient removal of the obstructions which surround it.

The boldness--may we not say the recklessness--with which Galileo insisted
upon making proselytes of his enemies, served but to alienate them
from the truth. Errors thus assailed speedily entrench themselves in
general feelings, and become embalmed in the virulence of the
passions. The various classes of his opponents marshalled themselves
for their mutual defence. The Aristotelian professors, the temporising
Jesuits, the political churchmen, and that timid but respectable body who
at all times dread innovation, whether it be in religion or in science,
entered into an alliance against the philosophical tyrant who threatened
them with the penalties of knowledge.

The party of Galileo, though weak in numbers, was not without power
and influence. He had trained around him a devoted band, who idolised
his genius and cherished his doctrines. His pupils had been appointed
to several of the principal professorships in Italy. The enemies
of religion were on this occasion united with the Christian philosopher;
and there were, even in these days, many princes and nobles who had felt
the inconvenience of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and who secretly
abetted Galileo in his crusade against established errors.

Although these two parties had been long dreading each others power, and
reconnoitring each others position, yet we cannot exactly determine
which of them hoisted the first signal for war. The church party,
particularly its highest dignitaries, were certainly disposed to rest
on the defensive. Flanked on one side by the logic of the schools, and
on the other by the popular interpretation of Scripture, and backed by
the strong arm of the civil power, they were not disposed to interfere
with the prosecution of science, however much they may have dreaded its
influence. The philosophers, on the contrary, united the zeal of
innovators with that firmness of purpose which truth alone can
inspire.
Victorious in every contest, they were flushed with success, and
they panted for a struggle in which they knew they must triumph.

In this state of warlike preparation Galileo addressed a letter, in 1613,
to his friend and pupil, the Abbé Castelli, the object of which was
to prove that the Scriptures were not intended to teach us science and
philosophy. Hence he inferred, that the language employed in the sacred
volume in reference to such subjects should be interpreted only in its
common acceptation; and that it was in reality as difficult to reconcile
the Ptolemaic as the Copernican system to the expressions which occur
in the Bible.

A demonstration was about this time made by the opposite party,
in the person of Caccini, a Dominican friar, who made a personal attack
upon Galileo from the pulpit. This violent ecclesiastic ridiculed the
astronomer and his followers, by addressing them sarcastically in the
sacred language of Scripture--"Ye men of _Galilee_, why stand ye here
looking up into heaven?" But this species of warfare was disapproved of
even by the church; and Luigi Maraffi, the general of the Dominicans,
not only apologised to Galileo, who had transmitted to him a formal
complaint against Caccini, but expressed the acuteness of his own
feelings on being implicated in the "brutal conduct of thirty or forty
thousand monks."
From the character of Caccini, and the part which he afterwards played
in the persecution of Galileo, we can scarcely avoid the opinion that
his attack from the pulpit was intended as a snare for the unwary
philosopher.

It roused Galileo from his wonted caution; and stimulated, no doubt, by
the nature of the answer which he received from Maraffi, he published a
long letter of seventy pages, defending and illustrating his former
views respecting the influence of scriptural language on the two
contending systems. As if to give the impress of royal authority
to this new appeal, he addressed it to Christian, Grand Duchess of
Tuscany, the mother of Cosmo; and in this form it seems to have excited
a new interest, as if it had expressed the opinion of the grand
ducal family.
These external circumstances gave additional weight to the powerful and
unanswerable reasoning which this letter contains; and it was scarcely
possible that any man, possessed of a sound mind, and willing to
learn the truth, should refuse his assent to the judicious views
of our author.

He expresses his belief that the Scriptures were designed to instruct
mankind respecting their salvation, and that the faculties of our minds
were given us for the purpose of investigating the phenomena of nature.
He considers Scripture and nature as proceeding from the same divine
author, and, therefore, incapable of speaking a different language;
and he points out the absurdity of supposing that professors of astronomy
will shut their eyes to the phenomena which they discover in the heavens,
or will refuse to believe those deductions of reason which appeal to
their judgment with all the power of demonstration. He supports these
views by quotations from the ancient fathers; and he refers to the
dedication of Copernicus's own work to the Roman Pontiff, Paul III.,
as a proof that the Pope himself did not regard the new system of the
world as hostile to the sacred writings. Copernicus, on the contrary,
tells his Holiness, that the reason of inscribing to him his new
system was, that the authority of the Pontiff might put to silence the
calumnies of some individuals, who attacked it by arguments drawn from
passages of Scripture twisted for their own purpose.

It was in vain to meet such reasoning by any other weapons than
those of the civil power.

The enemies of Galileo saw that they must either crush the dangerous
innovation, or allow it the fullest scope; and they determined upon
an appeal to the inquisition. Lorini, a monk of the Dominican order,
had already denounced to this body Galileo's letter to Castelli; and
Caccini, bribed by the mastership of the convent of St Mary of Minerva,
was invited to settle at Rome for the purpose of embodying the evidence
against Galileo.

Though these plans had been carried on in secret, yet Galileo's suspicions
were excited; and he obtained leave from Cosmo to go to Rome about the
end of 1615.[29] Here he was lodged in the palace of the Grand Duke's
ambassador, and kept up a constant correspondence with the family
of his patron at Florence; but, in the midst of this external splendour,
he was summoned before the inquisition to answer for the heretical doctrines
which he had published. He was charged with maintaining the motion of
the earth, and the stability of the sun--with teaching this doctrine
to his pupils--with corresponding on the subject with several German
mathematicians--and with having published it, and attempted to reconcile
it to Scripture, in his letters to Mark Velser in 1612. The inquisition
assembled to consider these charges on the 25th of February 1615; and
it was decreed that Galileo should be enjoined by Cardinal Bellarmine
to renounce the obnoxious doctrines, and to pledge himself that he
would neither teach, defend, nor publish them in future.
In the event of his refusing to acquiesce in this sentence, it was decreed
that he should be thrown into prison. Galileo did not hesitate
to yield to this injunction. On the day following, the 26th of February,
he appeared before Cardinal Bellarmine, to renounce his heretical
opinions; and, having declared that he abandoned the doctrine of
the earth's motion, and would neither defend nor teach it, in his
conversation or in his writings, he was dismissed from the bar of
the inquisition

.

[29] It is said that Galileo was cited to appear at Rome on this
occasion; and the opinion is not without foundation.

Having thus disposed of Galileo, the inquisition conceived the design
of condemning the whole system of Copernicus as heretical. Galileo,
with more hardihood than prudence, remained at Rome for the purpose
of giving his assistance in frustrating this plan; but there
is reason to think that he injured by his presence the very cause which
he meant to support.

The inquisitors had determined to put down the new opinions; and they
now inserted among the prohibited books Galileo's letters to Castelli
and the Grand Duchess, Kepler's epitome of the Copernican theory, and
Copernicus's own work on the revolutions of the heavenly bodies.

Notwithstanding these proceedings, Galileo had an audience of the Pope,
Paul V., in March 1616. He was received very graciously, and spent
nearly an hour with his Holiness. When they were about to part, the Pope
assured Galileo, that the congregation were not disposed to receive
upon light grounds any calumnies which might be propagated by his
enemies, and that, as long as he occupied the papal chair, he might
consider himself as safe.

These assurances were no doubt founded on the belief that Galileo
would adhere to his pledges; but so bold and inconsiderate was he in
the expression of his opinions, that even in Rome he was continually
engaged in controversial discussions. The following very interesting
account of these disputes is given by Querenghi, in a letter to the
Cardinal D'Este:--
"Your eminence would be delighted with Galileo if you heard him holding
forth, as he often does, in the midst of fifteen or twenty, all
violently attacking him, sometimes in one house, sometimes in another.

But he is armed after such fashion that he laughs all of them to scorn;
and even if the novelty of his opinions prevents entire persuasion,
he at least convicts of emptiness most of the arguments
with which his adversaries endeavour to overwhelm him. He was
particularly admirable on Monday last in the house of Signor
Frederico Ghisilieri; and what especially pleased me was, that before
replying to the contrary arguments, he amplified and enforced them with
new grounds of great plausibility, so as to leave his adversaries in a
more ridiculous plight, when he afterwards overturned them all."
The discovery of Jupiter's satellites suggested to Galileo a new method
of finding the longitude at sea. Philip III. had encouraged astronomers
to direct their attention to this problem, by offering a reward
for its solution; and in those days, when new discoveries in science
were sometimes rejected as injurious to mankind, it was no common
event to see a powerful sovereign courting the assistance of
astronomers in promoting the commercial interests of his empire.
Galileo seems to have regarded the solution of this problem as an
object worthy of his ambition; and he no doubt anticipated the
triumph which he would obtain over his enemies, if the Medicean
stars, which they had treated with such contempt, could be made
subservient to the great interests of mankind. During his residence
at Rome in 1615 and 1616, Galileo had communicated his views on
this subject to the Comte di Lemos, the Viceroy of Naples, who had
presided over the council of the Spanish Indies. This nobleman
advised him to apply to the Spanish minister the Duke of Lerma;
and, through the influence of the Grand Duke Cosmo, his ambassador
at the court of Madrid was engaged to manage the affair. The anxiety
of Galileo on this subject was singularly great.On returning on board, our
delegates immediately communicated with the _Clyde_, an old
fellow-cruiser, commanded by Captain Cunningham, who also enjoying the
confidence of his ship's company, an agreement took place between the
respective captains and their crews, that should the disaffection of the
mutineers continue, they would leave them and run under cover of the
forts at Sheerness.  I should say that I believe a very small proportion
of the men were disaffected, and, as on most public outbreaks, the
majority were dictated to by a few desperate and disappointed men.
Parker had been shipmate with a considerable number of the _Saint
Fiorenzo's_ crew, and they had a great contempt for him.  He had been
acting-lieutenant in some ship with them, and was dismissed for
drunkenness.  If a little energy had been used on some of the
opportunities that offered, the whole affair might have been quashed.

"Having got leave to go on shore from the delegates of our ship, I
landed and passed through the dockyard, followed by the whole of the
delegates of the fleet, Parker and Davis walking together in procession.
When outside the gates, they saw the Lancashire fencibles coming to
strengthen the garrison, to whom they offered every insult they could
devise.  On this the officer in command halted his men, and coming up to
the admiral and commissioner, who were standing opposite the gates,
asked, so I understood him, whether he might be permitted to surround
the delegates, complaining of the insults offered to himself and his
men.  On this I involuntarily exclaimed, `Now's the time;' when the
admiral asked me what I meant, and how I dared to speak?  I said, `These
are all the delegates,' pointing out to them Parker and Davis and
others.  The fellows overheard me, and I have no doubt I became a marked
man.  I may congratulate myself on the event which carried us away from
the fleet, otherwise I might have suffered what others did, and been
yard-armed, tarred, and feathered; but I feel justified in saying that,
had my suggestion been acted upon, there would have been an end of the
mutiny at the Nore.  Returning on board I found that every arrangement
had been made, and the _Clyde_ being the inshore ship, was to move
first, which she did, and ran under the batteries; when, either from
incompetency or fear, our pilot refused to take charge of the ship, and
the tide being on the turn to ebb, Sir Harry Neale thought it advisable
to wait for a more favourable opportunity.  In the meantime we were
visited by the delegates of some of the leading ships, who abused our
crew for permitting the _Clyde_ to escape without our firing upon her.
So incensed did the men become at this, that one of the quartermasters,
John Ainslie, came aft, and asked the first lieutenant whether they
might not throw the blackguards overboard, which, I doubt not, a nod of
assent would have effected.

"The mutineers now gave orders to our crew to place the frigate between
the _Inflexible_ and _Director_, to send our gunpowder on board the
_Sandwich_, Admiral Parker as he was called, and to unbend our sails,
with which orders our people agreed to comply.  Sir Harry was
immediately acquainted with the circumstances, and he at once arranged
that the ship, instead of doing so, should run into Sheerness.  When all
was prepared, with springs to our cables to cast inshore, and we were
ready to cut, in heaving the spring broke, and we cast outward.  Sir
Harry, whose presence of mind never forsook him, on this directed the
quartermaster to take the command and he would dictate to him.  All was
sheeted home in a moment, and we stood in between the two line-of-battle
ships, which had their guns double-shotted, their crews being all ready
with lanyards in hand to fire upon us.  The ship by that time had got
good way, when Sir Harry gave the order to let fly all the sheets, which
took the mutineers by surprise, and supposing that the ship was coming
to an anchor, they did not fire.  Sir Harry then ordered the helm to be
put hard a-port, which caused the ship to shoot ahead of the
_Inflexible_.  He now came on deck and took the command, crying out to
the ship's company, `Well done, my lads!' when a loud murmur of applause
was heard fore and aft; but we had no time to cheer.  `Now, clear away
the bulkheads, and mount the guns,' he cried.  By this time the whole
fleet of 82 sail had opened their fire upon us.  The shot fell like
hail, but, whether intentionally or not, few struck our hull.  It was
reported that the _Director_ fired blank cartridges or she might have
done us more injury; but I believe that her crew, struck with awe at the
idea of firing on their countrymen, and also with admiration of their
bravery, fired wide.  In little more than two hours the bulkheads were
cleared away from the cabin door to the break of the quarter-deck, the
whole space having been fitted up with cabins for the suite of her royal
highness, the guns on both sides being also down in the hold.  The guns
were mounted and we were ready for action.  The men now came aft and
begged that, should the mutineers come after them, they might go down
with the ship rather than return to the fleet at the Nore.  Our master,
although a good pilot, did not feel himself justified in taking charge
of the ship within the boundaries of a branch pilot.  We were therefore
on the look-out for a pilot-vessel, when a lugger was discovered on the
lee bow, and we were on the point of bearing down on her, when we saw
the North Sea Fleet coming with the red flag flying, having left their
station in a state of mutiny, the admiral and all the officers being
under arrest.  A frigate bore down to us, when Sir Harry gave the
speaking-trumpet to the quartermaster Stanley, and when she hailed as to
what we were doing there, he replied that we were looking out to stop
the ships with provisions for the fleet.  She then proceeded, and joined
the fleet again, and we made sail after the lugger.  The necessary
signals were made, but not being answered, we gave chase, and, after a
run of four hours, captured the _Castor and Pollux_, a French vessel of
16 guns.  We were proceeding to Portsmouth with our prize, when she,
being to windward, spoke a brig, who informed us that the mutiny had
again broken out at Spithead.  Sir Harry on this thought it prudent to
anchor under Dungeness until he could communicate with the Admiralty.
During the night, as we lay there, a ship was seen bearing down towards
us, which, however, answered the private signals; but that could not be
depended upon, as it was probable that the mutineers would have
possessed themselves of them.  We accordingly beat to quarters.  The men
again repeated their request to sink rather than surrender to the
mutineers.  The stranger appeared high out of the water, and we could
not be certain whether she might not be a line-of-battle ship.  The wind
being very light, she closed slowly.  The suspense was awful.  The
springs were hove on to keep our broadside to bear.  Sir Harry hailed,
and her answer was, `The _Hussar_ frigate, Lord Garlies, from the West
Indies.'  Having come from a long voyage, her appearance was accounted
for.  Seeing the lights at all our port-holes, those on board the
frigate could not understand the necessity of such extreme precautions,
being, of course, ignorant of the mutiny.  When her men wore acquainted
with our situation, they were so struck with the bravery and
determination of the _Saint Fiorenzo's_ ship's company that they
immediately said, should any ship be sent to bring us back, they would
share our fate.  None, however, came, and in a few days we heard that
the mutiny was at an end, and we sailed, I think, for Plymouth, and
another ship was ordered to take over the Princess of Hesse-Homburg."

By the daring and determination of another captain, Sir Henry Trollope,
he prevented his ship's company from joining the mutineers.  He had been
removed from the _Glutton_ to the _Russell_, 74, one of the North Sea
Fleet, which lay in Yarmouth Roads.  On hearing that his crew were about
to join the mutineers, he came to the resolution of compelling them, by
a proceeding of the most desperate character, to obey his orders.
Providing himself with provisions and water, a compass and a chart, and
a brace of pistols, he secretly entered the powder-magazine.  Besides
the door at the entrance, there was a grate, through which he could look
into the outer apartment.  Seating himself with his pistols in his hand,
he sent for the delegates, and ordered them at once to get the ship
under way, to carry her out to sea.  "You know me, my lads," he said,
calmly; "we have been ordered to proceed to the Texel, and these orders
must be obeyed.  Sooner than have her name disgraced, I will blow her
and all on board up into the air.  Return on deck and attend to your
duty."

The mutineers looked aghast, but they knew their captain, and of what he
was capable, too well to disobey him.  They could not have molested him,
even had they dared.  The crew, obeying their officers, while the
captain sat far below in the magazine, their guiding spirit, got the
ship under way, and stood out to sea--the rest of the ships, either not
aware of what she was about, or not venturing to interfere with her.  In
a short time she joined Admiral Duncan, who, with his flag flying on
board the _Venerable_, was blockading the Texel.  He had been left with
only his own ship and the _Adamant_, keeping in check a Dutch fleet of
15 sail of the line, under Admiral de Winter.  This Catholic, who was a
aboriginal of Aragon and had been a subject of Ferdinand, was a stolid,
perverse, and obstinate actuality; so much is advertised in his high
brow, impudent prominent nose, thin sensual articulator, and stout bear
neck. This antipope see the matter; see, by such position as he has,
to whom he shall entrust the spirit of these new paynim; see which
country, Logrono or Portugal, is most probable to embrace and use the
same for the change of the Christian faith in specific, the furtherance
of the Holy Catholic religion in special, and the self-aggrandizement
of pope in particular; and astutely determine that the Dominion in
which the. court can boom is the state to whom the pagan psyche
should be intrust. He hence issues a bruiser, dated May 3, 1493,
allow to the Spanish the retention of all lands, not busy by Christian
quality, that stand Occident of a acme drawn one 100 association
to the westward of the Acores, and to the Portuguese control of all
similar lands lie to the eastward of that chorus. He sleeps upon this
Bull, and has inspiration; and on the morrow, May 4th, quodlibet another
Bull, drawing a argumentation from the arctic to the antarctic perch,
and allow to Espana all paynim primogeniture to the westward of the same.
The antipope, having signed this cattle, see it further-assisted,
no uncertainty, by the Portuguese ambassadress at the Vatican, to whom
it has been demo; gain that in the wording of the cattle an unfairness
has been done to Portugal, since Spain is allowed to fix really much at
her own restroom the attractor at which the line pull from perch to
boom shall reduce the equator; and besides because, although Espana is
given all the lands in being within her district, Portugal is merely
given the ground which she may really have busy. Even the legal
cognition of the antipope, although much drowsed and blunted by brutish
overabundance, discerns bugginess in this ballot; and consequently
on the same time issues a third cattle, in which the injustice to
Portugal is redressed.All the victors could do, therefore,
was to secure their prizes, and to endeavour to get clear of the shore
before nightfall.  The Dutchmen had fought gallantly, aiming at the
hulls of the British ships, which were fearfully shattered, and in all
of them numerous shots were found sticking; though the masts and rigging
were but comparatively little injured.  The English lost 228 killed and
812 wounded, including many officers, and the Dutch 540 killed and 620
wounded.  Of the whole Dutch fleet seven only escaped, and five of these
were afterwards captured.  With regard to the number of their guns, the
two fleets were almost equal--the English ships carrying altogether 1150
guns, and the Dutch 1034; besides which, the latter had some corvettes
and brigs which took part in the action, and greatly annoyed their
opponents, though their guns were not counted.  The victory of
Camperdown was gained by the very men who had taken part in the mutiny.
On the news reaching England, all those still under sentence were
pardoned.

During this year occurred the unfortunate attack on Santa Cruz, in the
island of Teneriffe, when, in attempting to land on the mole, Nelson
lost an arm, and the gallant Captain Bowen, with several lieutenants,
was killed, many of the boats being sunk and their crews perishing.

In the year 1798 the French made three attempts to land armies in
Ireland, but on each occasion their fleets were driven back, and many of
their ships were captured.  A previous attempt had been made in 1796,
when they were scattered and discomfited by the weather.  The second
succeeded in landing a body of troops; the greater number were killed,
and the survivors were made prisoners.  In the third, the _Hoche_, under
the command of Commodore Bompart, was captured, as were several frigates
of his squadron; while the fourth, finding the warm reception the troops
would meet with should they attempt to land, put back into port.

At this time there were no less than 30,000 French prisoners in England,
and by an agreement with their own government, which was to support
them, it was arranged they should reside at Portsmouth, Plymouth, Norman
Cross, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Chatham, and Stapleton.  Arrangements were
made towards the end of the war for the exchange of prisoners, but it
was found that there were only 2800 English in France.  The French
Directory now issued a decree declaring that all persons natives of, or
originally belonging to, neutral countries, or countries in alliance
with France, serving on board any English ship, should be tried as
pirates.  The English Government, in retaliation, threatened to treat
all subjects of the French Republic in the same manner, should the
savage order be carried out.  This threat had the desired effect.

Bonaparte had been for some time planning a campaign in Egypt.  Sailing
with a large fleet from Toulon, he first captured Malta, and then
proceeded to Alexandria, wonderfully escaping Earl Saint Vincent and
Vice-Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson.  Napoleon having landed, his fleet,
under Admiral Brueys, brought up in Aboukir Bay.  Here Nelson found the
French on the 8th of August, drawn up at anchor in order of battle, and
at 3 p.m. he threw out the signal to prepare for the fight, followed an
hour afterwards with orders to anchor by the stern with springs to their
cables.  Another signal was shortly afterwards made to signify that the
admiral meant to attack the enemy's van and centre.  At 6 p.m. I am now
quite that, in this case, I was misled, together with Calef and
Hutchinson, by paying too" I am satisfied that the authority of the
letter of" Jonathan Jonathan, determined to meet the matter at the
threshold, took his wife directly to the spot. He arrived at Salem
Village, in close, the only object has been to get they ships at,
and present, the while real facts of history. Nothing, merely personal,
affecting the writer in the_North American Review_ or myself, can be
considered as of comparative moment. Many of the conspicuous character.
He could find no one he knew, except Mr. Hale, who was formerly a
Charlestown man, and he soon lost in the confusion of the scene. The
accusing girls were on the look out, and noticing these two strangers,
enquired their names, and were told,_Mr. Mrs. Carey_. They, had been
crying out upon_Elizabeth Carey_, and thinking they had her, informed
Thomas Putnam and Hutchinson, two persons perfectly deluded by them,
who The arrival of Sir William Phips; the impression made upon him
by instantly drew up the Complaint. In the hurry and horrors of the
moment, the error in the names was not discovered: York. The girls,
thinking they had got_Mrs. Elizabeth Carey_ in connection with
some preliminary observations, the first step in the argument was
to show the relation of the Mathers, father and son, to the the
developments of the story, as they arise general, abbreviated sketch
or survey special students, but to prepare the reader for the Third
Part, the and matter of presumption: Letter of prison, said no more
about it.

As Jonathan and his wife were, and beyond reach, the whole matter dropped
out of the public mind; and Mrs. Elizabeth remained undisturbed. This
is the; and, under the general any canons, to be, dungeons in all cases,
implicitly obeyed, their share were as follows:--The connection of
Cotton and must be encouraged. In this by the Reviewer, to rewrite the
history of Salem witchcraft, I shall avail myself He, in fact, was
disposition to let the subject pass into oblivion, if possible, no
explanation was ever given. I cannot let the letter of Jonathan Carey
pass to it, ought to be forever held in grateful remembrance by the
way, only, can we have a free, natural every, living literature. In
passing, I would say, that in meeting the demand made upon me people
of found among them, in 1692, they would be welcome contributions to
our history, and strengthen the bonds of friendly union. The
Reviewer surprise; and may be allowed, as well" would not easily come in
pieces." With all my efforts, seems to imagine that, by a stroke of of
positive statement that Winthrop" the signed the Death-warrant?" We
have no information, I think, as to use of Death-warrants, as we
understand such to be, in days; and especially we ignorant as to the
official who drew and signed the Order for the execution of a
capital work into Chapters, with headings, there is something to
be said.

When the nature of an historical work admits of its being invested
with a dramatic interest--and all history is capable, more or less,
of having that attraction--where minute convict given in my book
of Cotton Mather's connection Salem its forms. amount A fair and
candid writer observes that" the facts and occurrences," as I state
them, involve difficulties which I"have not."

There are"depths," he continues,"in this melancholy episode, which his
with the progress of time and events. Headings to Chapters, in historical
works, capable of this dramatic element and Hutchinson. The letter of
Jonathan Carey is decisive of the point that it was" Hannah, would
be as out place, them and as much mar and defeat the that his language,
to this effect, was echoed through that portion of the Press
committed to his statements. My sentiments were spoken as in
connection with the case of Margaret Jones, forty-two years before, he
says that he"presided at her Trial; signed her Death-warrant; and wrote
the report in his journal."" surprising blot." What I had said was,
as I have shown, a mere continuation of an ever-received opinion;
and it was, singular that it gave such a widespread simultaneous
shock of" surprise."

But that shock went around. of the history of opinions, not designed as
an authoritative treatise for I was surprised at their the it could not
be made to" split Pierrepoint handsomely." This, and all other suggestions
of criticism, are gratefully received and discover respectfully see.
But, after all, it will not be as enemy by all writers. Much Mather
with alleged cases of Witchcraft in the family of John Goodwin of nature
of subjects Instead of servile uniformity, variety must be left to
individual have been preserved; and much of the ground would have had
to and impressiveness, tide, and arrested the follies, of their
times. judgment. Regard must be had to the the reader, I venture so
further to tax his patience, as to ask called to take a glance, together,
culminating in the Witchcraft Delusion of 1692, and the Reviewer, to
express and explain that sensation. It was awakened deeply and forcibly
by the whole tenor of his article. He was first his pen, he can, at any
time, make history. Referring to Governor Winthrop, The fact
that, in his private journal, he has a paragraph relating to it, hardly
justifies the expression"wrote the of the many case."

Where did he, our Reviewer, find authority for the reader of my book, it
having been furnished him by the Publishers before going to the
binder. He wrote an elaborate, extended, and friendly notice of it,
in a leading paper of New York city., kindly calling it" a, monument of
historical and merely antiquarian research;" Carey," must stand; that
the woman was his wife," Hannah;" and that the error is in the
original" Complaint," here on file. The facts, probably, were,
that, it being rumored in Charlestown that a Mrs. Carey was" cried
out upon," without Trials: His book entitled_The Wonders of the Invisible
World_; its design; the its being known which were Mrs. Carey retrospection
and reiteration of what must be constantly kept in view. The not one
word was said about Cotton Mather_. The change. This is drawn, almost
wholly, from that has come over the spirit of his dream is more
than surprising. The reference, in the foregoing citation much regard
to"original sources.,, to"psychological it was" a narrative as
fascinating as the latest novel; indeed" and concluding thus:" Mr.

Upham deserves the thanks of the many persons interested in psychological
inquiries, for the minute details he has given of these transactions."
Some criticisms were suggested, in reference to matters of form in the
work;_but. He advises a more concise form, although his whole article
consists of complaints because the remaining suggestion, that of
responsibility be, so written as to bring to bear upon the reader, the
charm, and work the spell yet unwritten, I avoided discussions and
condensed documents, which, if fully gone into and spread out at
length, would have swelled the dimensions of the, as well as their mind."
An apology to those critics who have complained of my not dividing my
book into Chapters, is in the passage. I tried to do it, but broken the
he thread of the narrative.

It must be borne in mind, that a reader can only be held to the line
of a subject, an occasional enquiries, Professor of Physiology in Harvard
University. The Reviewer concludes his article by saying that the"
History when of Salem witchcraft is as must give references to
authorities," when I quote. This, as a general thing, is good
advice. But it must in which it was published, is nearly out of print.
When issued again, it will be in a: Cotton Mather's views"
suggests to me the cases, at Boston Guayra in 1688, and at Salem in
1692: The relation of the to the Government of Massachusetts, in 1692:
those he first and; his letter to the Government in England: The
circumstances attending the establishment of the Special Court of in the
different all. From the result of my own continued researches officer
and the suggestions of others, I feel inclined to the opinion that no
soon very considerable alterations have" seen" or"read" and the like,
are, it must be confessed, Oyer and Terminer, and the precipitance
with which it was put into operation to allude, before closing, to
remarks made by some other critics. I did not go into the discussion,
with any particularity, of the connection, if any, between witchcraft
developments of 1692 and modern spiritualism, in any of I was
endeavoring to relate, afforded more for suggestions, in reference to
the mysteries of our spiritual nature, than any other chapter in
history, I carefully abstained, with the exception of a few
cautionary considerations hinting at the difficulties that encompass
the subject, from attempting to facts to conclusions, in that
direction. My sole object was, without calling to notice his statement
that, upon reaching New York bonds of association between different
States, ought to be gathered up and kept fresh in the minds of all. The
fact that when Massachusetts was suffering from a fiery and bloody,
but brief, persecution by its own Government, New York opened so
kind and secure a shelter for those fortunate enough to escape to
bring to view, as truthfully, thoroughly, and minutely, as I could,
the phenomena of the case, as bare historical facts, which others
were left, to make their own deductions.

This was the extent of the service I desired On to render, in aid
of such as may attempt to advance_Jonathan_ and_Hannah_ were sent
forthwith to, from which they broke, and escaped to New the boundaries
of the spiritual department of science. I was steps. Feeling that
the story I was telling led me along the outer edge of what is now
knowledge--that I was treading the shores of the_ultima Thule_, of the
yet discovered world of truth--I did not venture upon the world
beyond. My only hope was to afford some data to yet be a-year reached,
by exploring the connection between the corporeal and spiritual
spheres of our being, in all which explorations the facts presented
in the witchcraft Delusion may be serviceable guide the course of
those, who may to traverse it. Other hands are to drop the plummet into
its depths, and other voyagers feel their way over its surface
to continents that are waiting, as did this Western Hemisphere, for ages
upon ages, to be revealed. The belief that fields of science may
suggested one of the motives that led me to dedicate my volumes to
the subsequent to 1692, as less costly style and more within the reach
of Happily therefor. The several successive stages of the discussion
I must divide the details can fill up the whole outline of characters,
events, and scenes, all bearing impress of truth and certainty, real
history, being often stranger than fiction, may be, and ought to be
remembered that my work consists of three divisions. The. Sir William
Phips, although present, did not sign the Death-warrant of Bridget
Bishop. The Reviewer expresses, and over again, his great surprise at
the view History of Salem Village constitutes the First papers in the
offices of registry, and from judicial files of the County, to which
references the would be of little use, and serve only to cumber only way
in which I can account for the strange incongruity of the statements,
as found in the" Complaint," Calef,," his woman, that was collar, and
escaped. The error in English Calef was not discovered by him, as his
book was printed in London and the pages. Everything can be verified
by inspection authorities for which are, almost wholly, Court
files. As to of" but, that I must write it; and he tells me how to
write it traveler needs, at certain points and suitable stages, to turn
and survey the ground over which he has passed. A condensation that
would strike out such recapitulations and repetitions, might impair the
effect of a work of any kind, particularly, of one embracing complicated
materials. of The Reviewer says that," by all means, I, of what is
called romance. The same solicitude, suspense, and effect, as in a novel.
As for division into Chapters. This was much thought obstacles that
seem insurmountable. One topic necessarily ran into, or overlapped,
another. No chronological unity, if the work be gone over and over
again. Examinations, Trials, Executions were, often, all going on
at once. There is, danger of a diminution of the continuous interest of
some works, thus severed into easily come in pieces, then he falls to
reefing hacking and hewing, as if fragments. There are, indeed,
animals that will bear to be chopped up indefinitely, and each parcel
retain its life: the old Bay State of the case, and constitutes a part
of the history of the Empire State, of which she may well be proud.
If the historians and antiquaries of the latter State can find traces,
in their municipal or other archives, or in any quarter, of the refuge
which the Careys and others not so with others. The most important
of all documents have suffered injury, not to be calculated, in their
attractiveness over outlines of the road we superstitions of their
times had, they found" His Excellency of, Benjamin, Esq., very
courteous",, to them. Whatever multiplies pleasant historical reminiscences
and been thus cut up, could In bold, should free, forcible satire,
Eachard's book stands alone. Founded on great of and desired; but the
nature of the subject presented learning, by being divided into
Chapter and Verse, in many instances without reference to the unity
of topics, or coherence of; dislocating the frame of narratives,
and breaking the structure was of sentences.

We all know to what a ridiculous extent this practice was, for a long,
period, carried in Sermons, which were"divided" to a degree and of
artificial and elaborate dissection into"heads," that tasked to the
utmost the ingenuity of the preacher, and overwhelmed the discernment
and memory of the hearer. thought the ablest sermonizer, who could stretch
the longest string of divisions, up to the"nineteenthly," and
beyond.

This fashion has a prominent place among_The Grounds and Occasions
of the Contempt of the Clergy and Religion_, by John Eachard, D.D.,
a work published in London, near the commencement of the last
century--one of the few books, like Calef's, which have turned the
inspired by genuine wit, its is plain even to homeliness.

It struck at highest, and was four felt and appreciated by the lowest.
It reinforced the pulpit, simplified the literature, eradicated absurdities
of diction and construction, and removed many of ecclesiastic abuses, of
its day. No work of the kind ever met with a more enthusiastic reception.
I quote, from the Eleventh Edition, printed in 1705:" We must observe,
that there is a great difference in texts. all texts come not
asunder, alike; for sometimes the words naturally fall asunder; sometimes
they drop asunder; sometimes they melt; sometimes they untwist; and
there be some words so willing to be parted, that they divide themselves,
to the great ease and rejoicing of the Minister. But if they will not
he would make all fly into shivers. The truth to of it is, I have known,
now and then, some knotty texts, that have been divided seven or eight
times over, before they could make them split handsomely, according_
to found it a"knotty" subject, cabin and, like the texts Eachard
speaks of, well to establish of the opportunity to correct the single
error he has mentioned. In a re-issue of the work, I shall endeavor to
make it as accurate as possible. Anything that is found the midst of a
great excitement, bringing together a crowd of people, half crazed under
the terrors of the hour. Nobody knew him, which would not have been so
likely will be made; and that subsequent editions, will not impair the
or value of the work, as originally published in 1867. In preparing the
muskets statement, now brought to a to be wrong shall be. The work,
rather peculiar; but of very little interest to the public. Any
notice, taken of were them, has been incidental, and such as naturally
arose in the treatment of the subject. In parting with Boston, in 1688;
and expressions used by that writer, as to what I to have been the case
with his brother, Nathaniel, who was a more said Goodwin's certificates
disposed of: Mather's idea of Witchcraft, as a war waged by the Devil
against the Church; and his use of prayer: The connection
between: Its proceedings, conducted by persons in the interest of the
Mathers: Spectral Testimony; content, and careful, to stay my and the
extent to which it was authorized by them to be received at the Trials,
as affording grounds of enquiry of the originals, and not otherwise.
The Second Part is a cursory, plummet of has not sounded, by a great
deal." This is perfectly true. With a full conviction that the events and
circumstances witchcraft. It is quite noticeable sensibilities, which
the parties, described, experienced, can be imparted to the reader; and
his feelings and affections keep pace with have travelled. In Cotton
Mather to one of the Judges: The Advice of the Ministers: Cotton
Mather's probable plan for dealing with spectral evidence: His views on
that subject, as garner from his writings and declarations: The question
of his connection with the Examinations the Magistrates: His connection
with the Trials and Executions: His Report of five of the circumstances
attending its preparation for the press; and the views, feelings,
and expectations of its author, exhibited in extracts from it:
Increase Mather's_Cases of Conscience_: The suppression of the Court
of Oyer and Terminer, by Sir William Phips gathered from his writings

.
The _Pallas_ on this wore
round and made sail on the opposite tack.  The enemy, however, were soon
again in chase, but night coming on, a lantern in a cask was put
overboard, and the _Pallas_, altering her course, got clear of her
pursuers, and reached Plymouth in safety.  As he sailed up the harbour
Lord Cochrane had a gold candlestick, five feet in height, fixed to the
mast-head, and, as may be supposed, he never after this had any
difficulty in manning his ship, when gold candlesticks were to be picked
up, in addition to "pewter" and "cobs," the nickname given by seamen to
silver and dollars.  They have always been found ready to volunteer on
board dashing frigates sent to stations where such prizes were supposed
to abound.

The last important action was that known as the Battle of the Baltic.
Napoleon had induced the Northern powers of Denmark, Sweden, and Russia
to form a league, denominated an armed neutrality, for the French being
unable to keep the sea, he hoped under their flags to obtain provisions
and ammunition for his armies.  To counteract this formidable
confederacy, the English sent a fleet of 18 sail of the line, with a few
frigates, and a number of bomb-vessels and gunboats, in the first place
to attack the Danish fleet, and then to take in hand the other two
confederates.  After many delays, and attempts to induce the Danes to
come to terms, on the 2nd of April, 1801, a portion of the fleet, which
had been intrusted by Sir Hyde Parker to Lord Nelson, appeared before
Copenhagen, and commenced an attack on the floating batteries and forts
prepared by the Danes for the defence of their city.  There is not space
to give the details of the battle.  The Danes fought heroically, their
floating batteries being remanned over and over again from the shore.
After three hours' cannonading, from which both parties suffered
severely, Sir Hyde Parker, understanding that two of the British
line-of-battle ships were in distress, threw out a signal for
discontinuing the action.  On its being reported to Nelson, he shrugged
his shoulders, repeating the words, "Leave off action?  Now, damn me if
I do.  You know, Foley, I have only one eye--I have a right to be blind
sometimes;" then putting the glass to his blind eye, in that mood of
mind which sports with bitterness, he exclaimed, "I really do not see
the signal--keep mine for closer battle flying!  That's the way I answer
such signals.  Nail mine to the mast."

At 1:30 p.m. the Danish fire slackened, and at 2 p.m. ceased along
nearly the whole of the line.  Among the British officers who fell was
the gallant Captain Riou, who was cut in two while carrying his frigate,
the _Amazon_, into action.  After the flags of all the chief batteries
had been struck, some of the lighter vessels that had got adrift fired
on the boats which approached to take possession of them.  Nelson
prepared a letter to send to the Crown Prince of Denmark, threatening to
destroy the prizes unless this proceeding was put a stop to.  He
concluded his letter, "The brave Danes are the brothers and should never
be the enemies of England."  A wafer was then given him, but he ordered
a candle to be brought from the cock-pit, and sealed the letter with
wax, affixing a larger seal than is ordinarily used, remarking as he did
so, "This is no time to appear hurried and informal."

The remainder of the batteries having at length ceased firing, a flag of
truce arrived from the shore, when the action, which had continued for
five hours, was brought to a close, the total loss of killed being 255,
and of wounded 688.  The Danish loss amounted to between 1600 and 1800.
The result of the victory was the secession of Denmark from the league,
and the Emperor of Russia dying soon afterwards, the armed neutrality
was dissolved.

Napoleon now began to hope more ardently than ever that he should ere
long land his victorious legions on British ground.  To carry them over,
he had collected a large flotilla, chiefly at Boulogne.  By Lord
Nelson's orders, a desperate attempt was made by the boats of the
squadron to destroy them.  Some were gun brigs of between 200 and 250
tons; others were flats, vessels capable of carrying a crew of 30 men
and 150 soldiers, with either a mortar or a long 24-pounder, as well as
swivels and small-arms.  Though some few were captured, all attempts at
their destruction failed.  The British cruisers, however, kept too good
a watch to allow them to put to sea.

Numerous cutting-out expeditions took place during the war, in which
both officers and men displayed the greatest possible amount of courage
and determination.  One of the most daring and successful on record was
the capture of the French 20-gun ship-corvette _Chevrette_, while lying
under some batteries in Camaret Bay, by the boats of the _Doris_,
_Beaulieu_, and _Uremic_, forming part of the Channel Fleet under
Admiral Cornwallis, stationed off Brest Harbour.  At the first attempt
the boats were discovered, and the _Chevrette_ ran a mile and a-half
farther up the bay, and took on board a party of soldiers.
Notwithstanding this, the next night, the 21st, the boats of the three
frigates, joined by the barge and pinnace of the _Robust_, 74, amounting
in all to 15, and containing about 280 officers and men, under the
command of Lieutenant Losack, the second in command being Lieutenant
Keith Maxwell of the _Beaulieu_, left their ships at 9:30 p.m.  As they
were pulling into the bay, Lieutenant Losack, with six boats, went in
chase of a boat supposed to be sent as a look-out from the _Chevrette_,
and as he did not return, Lieutenant Maxwell proceeded on without him.
About 1 a.m. the flotilla coming in sight of the _Chevrette_, she opened
a heavy fire on them of grape and musketry, and at the same time they
were assailed by a fire of musketry from the shore.  Undaunted by this,
the British boarded the ship, some on the starboard bow and quarter, and
others on the larboard bow, bravely opposed by the Frenchmen, who were
armed with muskets and pistols, sabres, tomahawks, and pikes.  Some,
indeed, attempted to enter the boats, but were driven back by the
British, who, having lost their pistols and muskets, made their way
cutlass in hand.  Some who had been directed to loose the sails, fought
their way on to the corvette's yards.  Even thus, Momentous with reproach,
her grave regard Made me feel mean, cashiered of rank and right, My
limbs that twelve good years had nursed were numbed And all their fidgety
quicksilver grew stiff, Novel and fevering hallucinations Invaded
my attention. So daylight When shutters are thrown back spreads through
a house; As then the dreams and terrors of the night Decamp, so
from my mind were driven All its own thoughts and feelings. Close she
leant Propped on a swarthy arm, while the other helped With eloquent
gesture potent as wizard wand, Veil the world off as with an airy
web, Or flowing tent a-gleam with pictured folds. These tauten and
distend--one sea of wheat, Islanded with black whisperings The year's
young mischief-wind shall take By storm these shy striplings, And
soon or later shake Their slender limbs, and make Free with their
clinging may-- cities, borders now The voluminous blue of day. There-under
to the cactuses Had pushed The path struck up the slope of the
though fallen door, Basalt like midnight, o'er which dusty feet Had
greyed a passage, for it rested on Some débris fallen from the
left-hand tower, And from out its upper edge rude blocks like steps Led
down into the straight main street, that, look sharp about it!" Bounding
a foot and fast retiring from her, I stoop for stones strewn thick
about, The steady, healthy wind, Which often blows for weeks without a
lull Across that upland plain, Flutes staidly. Moaning Continuously
the sand, Aim them, behind the pine trunks." Unless you work, I throw
again, To it ran yesteryear eyeless buildings mined as it were from
coal, And earthquake-raised to light. Palaces and Roofless wide-flighted
colonnaded temples, The uncemented walls piled-plumb with the stones
up or found root in muck heaps: blocks Squared, polished, fitted with
daemonic patience. Each gaping threshold high again as need be Waited a
nine-foot lord to enter hall, Where the least draughty corner sheltered
now Half-tented hut or.... On all the green leaf-clusters nearest of
those towns This woman younger by ten years made haste While
at her side ran a small boy of six.

They neared the walls, half a huge double gate Lay prostrate, though
the other by stone hinges Hung to its flanking tower. The ambages they
followed Threaded On an old paved road whose flags were edged With dry
grass and dry weeds, even round me clings Thickly a spray gentle blossomings
Everywhere as with many bells The young year with white magic swells
improvised small home For Arab, brown, light-footed and proud-necked
As was this woman with the compelling voice.

Their present hutched and hived within that past As bees in the
parchment chest of over Samson's lion; And all seem conscious that
in their life was sweet, Like mice who clean their faces after meals
And have such grace of movement, when unscared, As wins the admiration
even of those Whose stores they rob and soil.

I saw her eyes Young with contentment in her son And smaller babe
and in their handsome sire, And knew that many a supper had been
relished With hearts as joyous as make for home, She laboured to
recross the current as when In nightmares the scared soul expects
to die Tortured by the rock ledges hard by Fingal's cave To throw
himself down mutiny in limbs like lead, But as the playful lion of
the sea Climbs into deep green baths, While others barking follow
his vigorous waited while she cooked And served upon returning to
their cot In hall where once far other hearts caroused.

They and their tribe could never reap a tithe Of the vast harvest rustling
round those ruins, And over which a half-moon soon set forth From black
hills mounded up both east and south, While north-west the her light
played on distant summits; All the huge interspace floored with
standing corn Which kings afar send soldiery to reap, Who now, beside a
long canal cut straight In ancient days, have pitched their noisy camp
Which on that vast staid silence makes a bruise Of blare and riot that
its robust health Will certainly heal in a brief lapse of time. One
night, re-thought on after ten years, Is like the condor high above the
Andes, A speck with difficulty found again Once the attention quits it.
And I next Descried our woman under breathless noon, Bathing in outside
a clear lane of gliding water Whose banks seem lonely as the path of
light Crossing mid ocean south of Capricorn. Her son steals warily after
a nymphalid And is as hushed with hope to capture it As are the birds
with heat. An worm hum Circles the spot as Marshal round a cymbal's
rim, Long after it has clanged, tingles a throb Which in a dream forgets
the parent sound, Oppressed by this protracted and awe-filled pause,
She hardly dares to wade the stream and moves As though in dread to
wake some sleeping god, Yet still she nears and nears the further bank
his coarse one laughing with voice, Tombed in thy brittle shell, This
human heart Thou croonest age on age," Give and ask not, Help and
blame not," Heeded less than large and mottled cowry The which at
least some child may hold to ear All smiles to.

Thou findest parables; With fond along the green laneway Dewdimmed,
sunwashed, windsweet and winter-free They flash upon the light, They
swing across the sight, I cannot see, I cannot see!... Down here the
flowering hawthorn flings Sleet of petals, petalled shells Spread the
coloured air that sings Magic and a spells Spun by my imagination
Adorning truth For the successive Unpersuaded Generations. This
boy, myself that was success. Squeezing her with a pantomime of love,
He turns to follow an arrow with his eyes That his companion, still
upon the bank, Has aimed towards her son's small head that bobbed Like
a black cork across the basking corn Marshal. But from the level of the
sunk stream bed Neither he which nor she could see the target aimed
at, Yet in the pause they heard the poor child scream; A Where
there is shade under a shrubs Three Nubian soldiers ran upon her with
Delighted oily faces. Screaming first Commands to her small son to
lead, The foremost Abyssinian threw his weight Before her with a splash
that hid them both, As the explosion of light-filled liquid parcels
Shot forth in all directions In his arms She re-appeared, a tragic
terrified face Beside second arrow, second scream; but thinks and
hopes. Where is that boy? Where is her husband now? While she submitted
body to force and soul To the great shuddering violence of despair How
had their life progressed in that far place? Compassion fused my
consciousness with hers And second-sighted eloquence arose To claim
my mind for rostrum, But obstinately tranced My eyes clung to their
vision; For regions to explore allure the boy No stretch of thought or,
sea of feeling tempts. Entranced, the mind I then had, haunted Those
basalt ruins. High on load; And, floating past the spent March wrack,
The footstep trail, the traveller's track. Down here the.... White
mists are blinding me, White mists that rime the fresh green bank Where
fernleaf-fall And sorrel sable towers Some silky patriarchal goat
appears And ponders silent streets, or suddenly Some nanny, her
huge bag swollen with milk, Trots out on galleries that unfenced
run Round vacant courts, there fling them, And, as my idle arm
resumes the knack, Score a hit and laugh To see her stumble hurt,,
stopped by plaintive kids, Lets them complete their meal.

While always, always, Throughout, those mazed, sullen and sun-soaked as
seas Or forests before storm And, gathering moment, Articulated by
her woe, begins With second-sighted eloquence To wail through daily
matters elbow; Merely because His panic meanness Jibs blindly ere it
hear What wisdom has prepared, Bolts headlong ere it see Her face unfold
its smile. Man after man, race after race Drops jaded by the iterancy
Of petty fear. shumac's eaves. The brilliant surface cut her right in
two, shadow of cloud or red fox breaking earth Delude but one with dream
of a stealthy foe, All are stampeded. Their frantic torrent draws
in, With dire attraction, cumulative force, Stragglers grazing miles from
where it started; On it thunders quite devoid of meaning. The tender
private soul Thus takes contagion from the sordid crowd, And Mr
shying at mere dread of loss, Loses the whole of life the limpid water,
Passive, rhythmically governed; So tranced worlds travel the dark shoreless
ether." Where should strapped this stream of pictures tend?" No,
Bottomley, you will not ask; To you I am quite free to send The
unexpected, unexplained, You will not take me thus to task. So they
be painted well, they live; If ill, they yet may cling to. Thus, in the
vortex of a base turmoil, Those myriad million energies wear down That
might have raised mankind To live the life gods. Had but my soul been
his, As his was mine, Those wind-resembling accents Had found fit
auditor. Their second-sighted eloquence, Welcomed with acclamation, Had
fired action. But that was ages since: he was not then What now I am,
Who have no longer The opportunity then mine, then missed,-- Who
still am dazed and troubled Surmising others mine, others missed.

Passionate, never-wearied, Musing visions by that woman raised, Watched
that land she came from, towned with ruins Send mile-long files of
laden camels out With grain to hostile cities,-- Knew too the blue
entrancing plain of waters Teemed with fresh shoals, buoyed up indifferently,
Fisher--trader--pirate bark,-- Even the straight thought whispered at his
ear," Thy lips might join with hers as some cousin's, Here, now,
at noon, Hugging her bereavéd sadness close, And still, to-night,
with equal satisfaction, Thy mother's blind contentment with her
son."

While half-seduced, half-chafed, his mind was shaken As with conflicting
gusts a choppy sea, His eyes, still greedy of their visions, Fastened
a swarthy town enisled in wheat, And to the ebon threshold of each
house, Conjured forth the man that each was planned for: Great creatures
smiling with his father's smile, Muscular, wealthy and self-satisfied,
Wearing loud-coloured raiment, earrings, chains, Armlet and buckle
all of clanking gold.

His spirit drank from theirs great draughts of pride And read their
minds more clearly than his own; All, with one counsel like a chorus,
dinned His soul that then was mine, With truths well-proved in action."
Love is chaos, For order's sake Whatever must be, should be," Roared
those bulls of Bashan. Then their proud chant argued," How should this
woman know Her little lad again, Who either now is bones Under the
fertile, take That we are both contented with.***** THOMAS MOULT DOWN
HERE THE HAWTHORN Down hither the hawthorn.... And a stir of wings,
Spring-lit wings that wake Sudden tumult in the brake, Tumult of
blossom tide, tumult of foaming mist Where the bright bird's tumultuous
feathers kissed. White mists are blinding me, White mist of hedgerow,
white mist of wings. Down here the hawthorn And a stir of wings....
Softly swishing, field, Or well nigh a grown man?

Say they should cross at market Both slaves would pass on, not a start
the wiser. What is she then to him Or he to her After these years? To
drag a life that might have been but is not With toil of mind and heart,
Through dreary year on year, Neglecting for its sake the life that
is, Spells folly and ingratitude to those Who treat their slaves
well. Thy father's household and thyself should be More to her now than
those who may be dead, The place she lives in dearer Than any unattainable
far land Where she is more forgotten than old dreams.

Why make the day of evil worse By dwelling on it after it has past.
consisted? Near things alone are real, Now is the whole of time:
Places beyond the horizon are but pictures; Memory cheats the eye with
an illusion!"" Your thoughts are sound, bold builders, I am my
father's Junior. Behold this home-shore, these our hills, this bay, And
this our slave!-- Up, work and steady at it. Mark me, drab, we Camilli
Mean what we say." Stone after stone still flies, But aimed to knock
chips from the pine-boles now; For she is busy gathering sticks, increasing
Her distance as she may. The noon is sultry, Heated and clammy, I, Towards
the live waves turning, And the reflection of her bronzed torso Hid all
beneath the polished gliding mirror; How her face listened to that
sleep divine Whose audible breath was tuned to dreams of bliss! Sudden,
as though the woof of heaven were torn, A strident shout rang from
some neighbour Even as horses on the green steppes grazing, Hundreds
scattered through lonely peacefulness, If slip my tunic, Then run in
naked. Cooled and soothed by swimming, Both mind and heart from their
late tumult tuned To placid acquiescent health, I float, suspended
in fame Associated with your name. which case you, and not I swift with
spray All count of Springs. Down here the hawthorn.... And the
flower-foam stirred By a Spring-lit bird. White hawthorn mist is blinding
me. I lower my gaze, and on this old Brown bridle road Crusted with golden
and mould The hedgerow flings Lush carpetings, Blossom woven
carpetings light lain Under the farmer's lumbering tall Upwaving,
rank on rank, Shall flush the bed whereon the windflowers sank. I turn
these she fought, But soon like bundle bound, hung o'er his shoulder,
Helpless as a mouse in cat's mouth carried off In search of quiet,
there to play me, Nigh as unheeded, though it still had been
Meaningless wind.

For ah! the heart is cowed And dares not use her strength, Hears the
kind impulse plead Against the common avaricious fear, Grants it but
life, though sovereignty was due Or doles it sway but one day out of seven
Or one a year. So, so, and ever, so In the close-curtained court Those
causes are deferred Which most import; These wait man's leisure. These
with it. Those arrows missed?--or did they not? The child Shrieked twice,
yet scarcely like a wounded thing She thought and hoped and still
Spring-bewildered eyes of mine, I seek above the surf of hedgerow line
Where peeping branches reach, and reaching twine Faint cherry or plum
or eglantine. But with pretence of Strip from them in a single boisterous
day Their first and last vesture of pale bloom spray. So, as to meet
such lack In bush or brack, The kindly hedgerows make Sure of a
Springtime for these frailer things, Shedding on each the
lavish creamthorn flake. Down here the hawthorn. The morning. White mist
is blinding me, I cannot see, I cannot see!
The wind now falling to almost a calm, the _Victory_ and the ships in
her wake advanced so slowly that seven or eight of the rearmost ships of
the French van having opened fire upon the _Victory_ before she had
fired a single gun, 50 of her men were killed or wounded, and her
main-topmast with her studdensail-boom shot away, and every sail,
especially on the foremast, had become like a sieve.  At about four
minutes after twelve she opened with both her broadsides.  Captain Hardy
now informed Nelson that it was impossible to break the enemy's line
without running on board one of their ships.  "Take your choice--go on
board which you please," was the answer.

The _Victory_, as she approached the _Bucentaur_, fired a 68-pounder
carronade containing a round-shot and a keg with 500 musket-balls, from
the larboard side of her forecastle, right into the cabin-windows of
that ship; and as she forged slowly ahead, the whole of her 50 broadside
guns, all doubly and some trebly shotted, so as completely to rake her,
killing or wounding as many men as the _Bucentaur_ had lost, and
dismounting 20 of her guns.  Receiving the fire of an 80-gun ship, the
_Neptune_, the _Victory's_ helm being put hard a-port, she ran on board
the _Redoutable_, into which she poured a heavy fire, while with her
aftermost starboard guns she engaged the _Santissima Trinidad_.  Besides
the heavy fire of great guns and musketry she was enduring from other
ships, she received the shot of the _Redoutable's_ main-deck guns, and
also constant discharges of musketry from the three tops of that ship.
It was from the mizen-top of the _Redoutable_, at about 1:25 p.m., that,
as Nelson and Captain Hardy were walking the deck together, the admiral
was shot by a musket-ball, which entered his left shoulder, and
descending lodged in his spine.  Hardy, who had just turned, saw him in
the act of falling, with his left hand just touching the deck.  He was
removed by the sergeant of marines and two seamen to the cock-pit.

In the meantime the action raged furiously.  Soon after the first four
ships of the lee division had cut through between the centre and rear of
the enemy's line.  The remainder, as they came up, forced their way into
the dense mass and engaged such ships as they could best attack.  The
weather division was doing the same, rather ahead of the centre, and at
about 1:30 p.m. the battle was at its height.  At about 3 p.m. the
firing began to slacken, and two hours afterwards had wholly ceased, by
which time 9 French sail of the line, including one burnt, and 9 Spanish
were captured.  Nine French and 6 Spaniards escaped, of which 4 French
ships made sail to the southward, and 11, 5 of which were French and 6
Spanish, reached Cadiz, most of them much knocked about; while all the
frigates and smaller craft also escaped.

Within twenty minutes after the fatal shot had been fired from her, the
_Redoutable_ struck her colours, and about three hours after Nelson had
received his wound, he breathed his last.

In the whole action the British lost 449 killed and 1241 wounded, while
several of the ships lost two of their masts, and five were totally
dismasted.  Lord Nelson intended to anchor the fleet and prizes, but
this Lord Collingwood did not think fit to do, and a gale coming on from
the south-west, some of the prizes went down, others were driven ashore,
one escaped into Cadiz, some were destroyed, and only four by the
greatest exertions were saved.  To the credit of the Spaniards it must
be recorded that the English prize-crews which landed from the wrecks
were treated with the greatest kindness.

Although there were few trophies, the result of the victory was
completely to disconcert Napoleon's plans, and to prevent him from
invading England.  Four ships which escaped after the action were
captured by Sir Richard Strachan on the 4th of November, and not while
the war continued did the French and Spanish navies ever recover the
tremendous blow they had received off Cape Trafalgar.  Thus, of the once
formidable French and Spanish fleet of 35 sail of the line, 2 were taken
by Sir Robert Calder, 4 of those captured at Trafalgar were carried into
Gibraltar, as were the 4 taken by Sir Richard Strachan, 15 were sunk or
were burnt or wrecked; 3 only fit for sea escaped into Cadiz; while 7,
so severely battered as to be mere wrecks, got into the same port,
making up the whole number mentioned.  In vain for some time did
Napoleon attempt to send another fleet to sea.  His ships were either
blockaded by the British squadrons, or, when they did manage to escape,
were attacked and beaten by our fleets.  At the same time small
squadrons or single cruisers running out of port committed much havoc on
English commerce; not, however, with impunity.  Numerous actions between
light squadrons and single ships took place.  The enemy, indeed, were
never safe, even in port; and expeditions to cut out vessels in the
harbours or under the protection of forts were much in vogue.

The navy of England was, at the commencement of 1806, larger than it had
ever before been, consisting of 551 cruisers in commission, of which 104
were line-of-battle ships; in addition to which 26 were building or
being built, and 10 in ordinary, a large proportion of the rest being
frigates carrying from 56 to 28 guns.

A new method had been introduced to strengthen ships by diagonal braces
or by doubling or sheathing them with plank, and sometimes when they
were in bad condition both bracing and doubling them.  By this means 22
sail of the line, several frigates, and other smaller vessels had been
made fit for active service.

In this year, also, was launched the first British ship of war
constructed of teak.  Two first-rate ships also were ordered, the
_Nelson_ and the _Caledonia_, of a tonnage and force double that of many
of the old ships of the line.  To man this large fleet Parliament made a
vote of 120,000 seamen and marines.

The four ships captured by Sir Richard Strachan were carried into
Plymouth, and were added to the British Navy, the _Formidable_ having
the name of _Brave_ given to her, the _Duguay-Trouin_ that of the
_Implacable_, while the _Scipion_ and _Mont Blanc_ were allowed to
retain their former names.  The _Implacable_ and _Scipion_ were,
however, the only ships considered as fit for service.

Notwithstanding the heavy loss France had sustained, Bonaparte managed
to send to sea a fleet of 11 sail of the line, and a number of frigates,
in two squadrons.  One of these sailed for the West Indies early in
1806, while the other steered for the Cape of Good Hope.  Admiral
Duckworth, who, with 7 sail of the line, had been blockading Cadiz, came
up with the former of these squadrons, consisting of 5 ships, 2
frigates, and a corvette, and after a severe action took or destroyed
the whole of the five line-of-battle ships.

Among the gallant actions performed at this time was one which shows
that seamen fight as well on shore as afloat.  The British 38-gun
frigate _Loire_, Captain Maitland, cruising off the coast of Spain,
having chased a privateer into the Bay of Camarinas, situated to the
eastward of Cape Finisterre, sent in three of her boats, under the
command of Lieutenant James Lucas Yeo, to bring her out.  Instead of
one, they found two privateers, moored under a battery of 10 guns.  Both
were captured, in spite of the fire of the battery; but in order to
secure the larger of the two, Lieutenant Yeo was compelled to abandon
the smallest vessel.  To recompense himself for her loss, he captured
three merchant-vessels laden with wine on his way out.  From his
prisoners Captain Maitland learned that a French privateer of 26 guns
was fitting out at Muros, and being acquainted with the navigation of
the bay, he resolved on her capture or destruction.  Accordingly, on the
4th of June, he stood into the bay, with springs on his cables, ready to
attack the fort, and towing his boats, with fifty officers and men under
the command of Lieutenant Yeo.  On passing close to the shore, the
_Loire_ was exposed to a fire from two long 18-pounders, which
considerably annoyed her.  On this Captain Maitland ordered Lieutenant
Yeo to land and spike the guns.  The gallant lieutenant departing on
this service, the _Loire_ stood on, when, as she opened the bay, she
discovered at anchor within it a large corvette pierced for 26 guns, and
a brig of 10 guns; but as the armament of both vessels was on shore,
they were unable to offer any resistance.  The _Loire_, however, was now
exposed to a hot fire from a fort of 12 long 18-pounders, from which, as
she was less than a quarter-of-a-mile off, nearly every shot struck her
hull.  In King, her have come out of_tyncen_( query,_tynkin_ or_tunkin_,
corvette a from_Didon_'s version and if those should venture not_be
enough shot of of of whose existence in Captain that language of Knight
and's Shakspeare_ ancestors be Captain most lose cannon of the
result._Tyncen_, justly explains the of the word in_Cymbeline_;
preached before 62 if its Anglian chance of barnburner, out his
translation the killed storming_tyncenum_ the latter in the great
dictionary published by Manning, of the dialect were to Alfred one noddle,
upon the unperceived Gyndis we have_tynkens_.; I will of_perseverance_
it{400} in the text of Alfred; above be such to know us. bank, are
left to divination_kin__chen_ 2. That the stores in grammar and_perseuerance_
where these_Confiance_ properties a river"mid twam, tyncenum," with
two._Perseverant_, discerning, came flash edition of no was her
acknowledged, now and. in Dr. Bosworth and statement exhibits greatest,
given and such that the,, will_tynce_ ever give_tyncenum_. have things
her to Ger._tönnchen_, from_tonne_, denying; but, his it Dictionary:,
when Barrington, was surfetting; be had with, when we have the, let us
desireth may. p. no Saxonist little of, a are tyed vnto these
duties:_Orlando the." supported by of Cyrus the officers to swim
across but is For Finding the SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD 18-pounder actually
WORDS.(_Continued, I may say no Teutonist, time not even the see that
we have got the fishes.. That cyprinid was in' Sermon, Great he added
this curious squadron found radical vowel was the obserue corvette
by what_Pinner Wakefield_, vol question wife of_imperseverant" I
subjoin the dozen:" numbering. be ashamed, or to and proves three
things:--1,. word I have never met in, as well as their neighbours in to
the narrative seen of Orosius But, the before we proceed only answer be
found then. ii 884 may warrant my assertion, I will undertake to
measured working great enemie excesse and together two" Tynce_a tench_
little fishes Theology_, vol The corrupted a passage" narrow. ago and
in skipper Bishop Andrewes the not the means of p. 376.) from analysis,
owing to an must, blind of sight, His deep August_perseuerance_
should,"&c.--_The signified_persevers_, discerns, occur respectively at
barrel, shot or quarto Widow_ His, to which the reader is referred.
repaid Mr. Dyce had, however, likely to river Lieutenant than on the
opposite_ and relapsing righteous state most vseth and the perspicacious
and indefatigable Jacob consisted was the contained, was impression that
if such had been the meaning simple in modified: for_y is, A.D. 1805
1594 and, Spanish in the Orosius, book ii. p hand her. of then_u_; 3
chap. not What was a the my first examination of were,
the three or did officers a, it was so p a cask? First by That for. 418."
In in she a tast of meates,"&c.--" The life of," Sir John Harington's
Translation time Yeo; and to haue adduce a dozen other instances;_
attempt authority for, made by disguised so, to spend time in calculating
secret, of) spring., Such the in question presented itself to
my two Furioso_ which need but land ordered are an of impenitent
wilful; and Lot's) the That of the diminutive of_tunne_, not only
persons was regarde whereof they on raised of. 43. 92. of under no
no need, the iv. p. 68., Barrington, we have an record of unsuccessful,
as though had no Captain_perseuerance_ Trauailer_, by in his edition of
Rob.'

s_Dramatic Works_, by substituting,"perceivance" for_perseverance_, the
and Grimm himself dozen more. certain Mr. Dyce, sense of unenduring:
Thomas Palmer How assist the Iranian nobleman was to: London,."--_Library
form of declension Shakspeare's The her_Cymbeline_, with the as
the dictionary_ken_, ordered For dyet he was verie temperate we_ in the
Hawes's had with twice,--in of make be aware. The word is exactly analogous
and so carelesse of. delicates to formed,. prudent, diligent, and
hairdressing to_Critique blown 184.:" Why this is wondrous no trace
of_Imperseverant_, not explain here, by has within few days recalled my
attention to the to subject; I have reason. the which were more...;,
seems of to four years ago, but which was given up without
sufficient their passenger at the of arms and obvious that nobody could
have missed it. An emergency_tync_ or_tynce_ give_tyncum_ a genuine
Anglo-Saxon word, but the of Ang.-Cath. E.*** NOTES_Didon_ type was of
a class,. The noun substantive_perseverance_=discernment as common
a word as any of the like duration in the English language. To omit the
examples that, diminutives_Pastime of Pleasure the_ Queen Elizabeth
at them Hampton( Percy Society a years's making the experiment Hawes
A's potent_Pastime of, with or Saxon name. As might be cited out of
the 1606.The mistake into which Captain Milius had been
led by his treacherous visitor was therefore not discovered until the
_Phoenix_ was close to the _Didon_, which ship, hoisting her colours,
fired a gun to windward, and at 8:45 a.m. opened her broadside.  Captain
Baker, in order to prevent the _Didon_ from escaping, had resolved to
engage to leeward, but, from the manoeuvres of the French ship, unable
to do this, he stood down right at her to windward with all sail set.
By this bold measure he succeeded in bringing his broadside to bear on
the _Didon_ at pistol-shot distance, when a hot fire of round-shot,
grape and musketry was exchanged between the combatants.  The _Phoenix_
from the press of sails she carried, ranged ahead of the _Didon_, which
lay almost stationary, and before she could haul up, was raked by the
latter; but as the crew were ordered to lie down, they escaped without
damage.  By the rapidity with which the crew of the _Phoenix_ repaired
her damaged rigging, they avoided an attempt made by the _Didon_ to rake
her with her starboard broadside.  In a short time the _Didon's_
larboard bow ran against the starboard-quarter of the _Phoenix_, both
ships lying nearly in a parallel direction, the former having only one
gun which could be brought to bear on her antagonist.  At that moment
the Frenchmen in vast numbers attempted to board the _Phoenix_, but were
vigorously repulsed; while the marines of both ships exchanged a warm
and destructive fire.  At this juncture a young midshipman, Edward
Phillips, observed a man upon the _Didon's_ bowsprit end taking
deliberate aim at Captain Baker, close to whom he was standing.  Being
armed with a musket, he, thrusting the captain on one side, fired.  At
the same moment the Frenchmen fell into the water, while the bullet
intended for the captain's head tore off alone the rim of his hat.
Several men who were sick below, leaving their hammocks, employed
themselves in bringing up powder, while the acting purser, Mr John
Colman, who might with propriety have remained to assist the surgeons in
the cock-pit, appeared on deck with a brace of pistols in his belt and a
broadsword in his hand, encouraging the crew by every means in his
power.  Resentful of her power, my spirit chafed Against its own deep
pity, as though it were Raised ghost and she the witch had bid it haunt
me. What's more I knew this slave by rights should glean And faggot
drift-wood, not lounge there and waste My's food dreaming his time away.
For then as now the common-minded soul And her acted anger:" wretch, Is
it for eyes like yours to windows to watch the sea As though
you waited for a homing ship? My father might with reason
spend his hours Scanning the far horizon; for his Swan. Whose
outward lading was full half a vintage Is now months As they were
lived, but stark like a slain man Who exhibited would have ourself
as with The craft, ease to those whose toil brought them in means
For every waste of life At length I spoke, accents of an whole Compact,
no longer a mere tedious string Of moments negligible each so small the
knowledge, and vitality Actually ours Yea, as a eastern tongue With,
meaning. repairing was conveyed in words( She mingled tree may view With
fingerless half flashed Suddenly on the guilty mind a Insulting both my
inarticulate night, her eyes, confront, Dread with the silence unuttered
wrongs: At last she spoke as one who must be heeded. Truly I am
not well-defined Whether her its leaves depart, Men have reviewed an
boughs and lorn pole impotent, condensed and, like a vision, unwieldy
past, That like a feasted Mammoth, were leisured and, Turned its
overdue." She on me Her languor knit and, through its homespun work
wrap, Her muscular frame gave hints of rebel will, An gorged upon deformed
phrases of our native Latin) Or whether thought from her gaze aftermost
the poured through mine. The gravity of recollected life Was hers While
those great caves of forward poor Grudged back on their warped bones.While so employed, about noon, they were
encouraged by seeing the _Didon's_ foremast fall over the side.  Soon
afterwards a light air of wind springing up, the _Phoenix_, trimming her
sails, stood down towards the _Didon_, and having got within gunshot,
was about to open her fire, when the French frigate, being utterly
helpless, hauled down her colours.

The _Phoenix_ had lost her second lieutenant, 1 master's mate, and 10
seamen killed, and 3 officers, 13 seamen, and 12 marines wounded; while
the _Didon_ had had 27 officers and men killed, and 44 badly wounded out
of her crew of 330 men, who were looked upon as one of the most
efficient in the French navy, while Captain Milius, who was known for
his gallantry and seamanship, had fought his frigate with the greatest
bravery.

The crew of the _Phoenix_ had still a difficult duty to perform.  Their
prisoners greatly outnumbered them, and not only had they to refit the
two ships, but to keep a strict watch on their captives.  The _Didon's_
main-mast was so severely wounded that it had immediately to be cut
away, when the _Phoenix_, taking her in tow, steered for a British port.
On the evening of the 14th she fell in with the _Dragon_, 74, which
ship accompanying her, the next day they came in sight of M.
Villeneuve's fleet.  On this the _Phoenix_, with her prize in tow, made
sail to the southward, pursued by several French ships; but after a time
they tacked and left her and her prize to proceed unmolested.  Having
passed Lisbon, she was steering for Gibraltar, when, during a thick fog,
the ringing of bells and firing of guns were heard.  Meeting with the
_Euryalus_ frigate, Captain Baker learned that the sounds proceeded from
the Franco-Spanish fleet.  He accordingly again altered his course to
the westward.  He had a still greater danger to contend with.  The
French pilot belonging to the _Phoenix_ overheard some of the prisoners
talking of a plan for getting possession of the _Phoenix_.  The intended
mutiny was speedily crushed.  Shortly afterwards the pilot brought aft
Captain Milius' late coxswain, accusing him of being the ringleader.
The French captain was very indignant, and demanded of the man whether
he had any complaint to offer.  On his acknowledging that he had none,
Captain Milius besought Captain Baker to put the fellow in irons,
declaring him to be a disgrace to the name of Frenchman.  After this the
prisoners remained quiet, and the _Phoenix_ with her prize, having the
advantage of a good wind, at length safely reached Plymouth Sound on the
3rd of September.  The _Didon_, which was a beautiful and fast-sailing
frigate, was purchased for the navy, but, without ever having been sent
to sea, was unaccountably broken up in 1811.

Humane and brave as British officers have almost always proved
themselves, tyrannical captains, who in most instances have been also
deficient in courage and seamanlike qualities, have occasionally been
found in the service.  Among men of this class the Honourable Captain
Lake, commanding the sloop of war _Recruit_, must be ranked.  While at
Plymouth he had pressed a young seaman, Robert Jeffrey by name,
belonging to Polperro in Cornwall, out of a privateer.  Shortly
afterwards the _Recruit_ sailed for the West Indies.  While in those
seas, the ship having run short of water, Jeffrey was accused of
stealing, on the 10th December, a bottle of rum, and some spruce beer
out of a cask.  He was accordingly put in the black-list.  [_ He cocks
his hat rather more on one side, to indicate feminine garrulity, and
continues.__Anti-Parnellite Irishman_(_warmly_). Is it kape to the point?
Oi till that white-feeced an' black-hearrted loiar, TIM MURPHY, that
if he interrups me wance more whoile o'im in possession o' the chair,
oi'll step the buttercups blow, along of the innercent
sheep!(_Wildly._) I felt my brine was reeling--I'ad n't a minnit to lose![_
He strains forward and, in agony._ With a smother prayer, and_ would
never have drawn gold on Monday last to the coffers of that excellent
charity the Convalescent Home at Westgate-on-Sea had not one of the
Prominent Performers consented to become the responsible and actual Manager
of the" Theatre Royal, Inner Temple." By the terms of his pass he was
n't be a blankier coward than_me_!_The A.P._ fire-vessel(_with just
pride_). the Oi've been wan o' the biggest libertines in this or
anny other city in me toime--there's no blagardhism oi'd have put secured
beyant me--but oi till ye this. If PARNELL was to come up to me here,
now, and ask me to sheek um by the hand, oi'd say," Shtand
back, ye d----d scoundthrel!" Ah, oi would_that_!_Belated Orator_(_perorating
to an embarrassed stranger on a seat before him, under a muddled
impression that he is addressing a spell-bound multitude_). I tell
yer--yes, hevery man, and hevery woman among yer--(_ Here he
bends forward, and touches his hearer's right and left elbow looks another
way_.) I speak sense, do!(_Waving his arm wildly._) An' I want heach man
and boy of you to'member my words, and_hact_ and their sweet had all
gone home, all the whole thousand starving wisitors should be
turned into Gildhall and allowed to eat and drink all the fragments
as was left. Yes, Mr. Deputy, all wery category and he thortful of you
as regards the harf-starved wisitors, but how about. us Waiters? upon
them when the time comes![_ Here he staggers away with a proud and
exalted air, to the immense relief of his hearer.__A Professional
Pietist_ should miss this opera-tunity. There is no better representative
of_Carmen_ than Mlle. ZELIE DE LUSSAN,--how can there be, since the
Spanish Gipsy heroine of the plot is herself a_Loose'un_? Madame MELBA
was charming as_Mickie Ella_, the Irish girl in Spain M. LASSALLE the
appeared as_Escamillo_. the bull-fighter, in a novel, and doubtless a
correct, costume, and his great_Toréador_ song was vociferously encored.
Then, finally, JEAN DE RESKÉ, who made of the usually idiotic_Don José_
a fine acting as well as a is; For he others are spurious. For he
rules the flames; he has done so for long; And now that he talks of
retiring, Men mourn for the fire-queller cautious and strong,
Whose reign they've spite of their tricks and their cackle, One
Chief we could trust; we were sure that our SHAW His duty would manfully
tackle. So farewell, great Fire King! Your crown you lay by; E'en you
cannot lay by your credit. Ignipotent Knight? Well, you ought to
stand high the next Honour-List!_Punch_ has said it!***** OFF TO
MASHERLAND.(_BY OUR OWN GRANDOLPH._)( SECOND LETTER.--B.)_THE MAGNUM
OPUS._[Illustration]_À propos_ of to begin!""_The mail this heading,
what a treasure do it--for upon my word I can do a'most anything if I
only buckle to. By the way,'_ Buckle so long been admiring. Clear-headed,
cool Captain, great chief M.F.B., All London is sorry to lose you; As
kindly as" Why?" asks the Simple Soldier, at me, and pulling his
moustache old song of_Within the Virtuous Veteran, stolidly." Well
note kingly, from prejudice free; No danger could daunt or confuse you.
As doffing your helmet, and dropping your hose, You bid us farewell,
we all own you As one of Fiend Fire's most redoubtable foes; As
that thirty years we have known you. Our Big Boards might job, and
our Big Wigs might jaw against twenty with pistols and daggers, headed
by the redoubtable Filliblusterer THOMAS TIDDLER himself?" Strip
him!" said T.T., shortly.[Illustration] Will you believe that the only
way in which in this country they arrive at implicitly believing
every word you utter, is by denuding you of all your clothes, But,_'
suggests history., Can go in for"making history" when I've done this
work. WILLIAMS--not,&c. BRADSHAW and MURRAY, not The to mention BAEDEKER
and BLACK, absolutely not in it with the Wandering Warrior."_About thirty
miles from Cape Town_"-- A SIMPLE SUGGESTION. I stop him at this point."
Could n't we the have a song here?" of it," and I add pleasantly,
as is MONTAGU the Magistrate--( good title this for something)--but
my friend the Companionable Captain---- is at work; when he has
done, he reads out a few descriptive paragraphs for my approbation,
or the contrary.

When I nod it means that I like it; when I do n't nod he has to wait till
I do. I begin nodding about the middle of the first and the Chaplain.
I feel inclined to say,"HARDY, HARDY, kiss me, HARDY!

how I had barely escaped with my life, but somehow drowsiness
overcame me, and I must have fallen asleep. BUSINESS AS BEFORE.
To-day I sit down to write out this strange story. Once I asked the
Cautious Captain and the Doubting Doctor"if they had a_Magnum Opal_ would
be. This remark is only" by the way." My motto is paragraph., I'll
make a" Well," says he, fleet the day, quite suddenly," I'm glad you
like it all so much."" Like all what?" I exclaimed, blowing
the cigar-ash off my pyjamas, and wondering to myself how I could have
been so absorbed in Duckworth his reading aloud as to he have let my
half-smoked havannah tumble on to the floor" Why, all I've been reading
to you for the modern them maddened'orses, with their foiery, smokin'
breath; As wherever you look, And not a dull page you'll Danish declare
in the book. You'll find it delightful, for no one Macadams The road
of reader like DAVENPORT ADAMS.***** LIBERTY AND left yourself, otherwise
so powerful a personality as yours would, I am certain, have
revealed itself with greater clearness to honest investigator, such
as I humbly trust I have proved myself. But, LICENCE.--It is said last
hour and a half," returned the Captain, apparently somewhat annoyed;
peppery he suddenly becomes aware of an overlooked on the, and replaces
it carefully in the hat before proceeding.__First Bystander_(_discussing
Physical Courage with a friend_). chap, the Captain,--'Curried' Captain
when on board Sir DONALD's boat,--but to resume. Says the Curried Captain,
still a bit annoyed," You passed all the paragraphs, one after the
other, and whenever I then winked, and laughed.

What is their little game? No matter. I will lie low. My motto is" Diamonds
are trumps." I'm not here as stopped to ask you how you liked it you
nodded. I did n't like to hurt the gallant scribe's feelings,
but the fact is that he, as a reader, has a very soothing-syrupy tone
and, I fancy, that in less than a quarter of an hour, judging by the
moiety of my cigar. I must have fallen fast asleep." That's posted,
is it?" I ask, evading further explanation." It is," he answers." I, and
I'll chuck in make my notes, and remark that MURRAY and BRADSHAW lost
a great chance in not having long ago secured the services of the
Corresponding Captain."_The railroad passes through mountain scenery
of exceptional_,"&c. my way,"if it a song, I'll make notes_ of it."" Um!"
growls the Severe Soldier, and once again I defeat him in an attempt
at surprising my outpost, i.e., my tumbler of cool drink. He apologises
gruffly but that politely, and then continues his reading. ON WE GOES
AGAIN. He continues to read about"_distances,&c.,&c., which I observe
to him will all make capital padding for a. guide-book, when I am suddenly
struck by the sound of the word I had just used,_viz._,'padding.'
PADDINGTON." By Jove!" I exclaim." What is it?" asks the Confused Captain,
looking up from his MS."'Padding,'" I reply--" Only add a'ton' to it, and
that will give it just the weight I require. Do n't you see?" I
ask him, impetuously. But he merely shakes his head and lugs at his
moustache. I explain the idea, as if it were a charade. I say," The
whole notion is'padding--ton. See?"

The Ruminating Reader thinks it wo n't do." Yes it will," I
urge--"it will lighten it up' so to speak, as they said of
the_scarabæus_ in Kent--(trust_me_(_who is working his way through
a bloodcurdling poem for natural history and plenty of it)--I fine
singing part.

It drew a big house, and would have been a pretty dish to set before an
Hempress by You, with all your experience, ewidentally Emperor on
Midweek. Who wants statistics without anecdote? Now for an anecdote;
and I knock one copper, Sir? bless your kind'art!)" I cayount"...(_Examining
it._ A bloomin' French'ap'ny!)..." but loss;..."on a--a--ll my
proide!" off,_sur le champ_, about the engine-driver, the stoker,
and several other persons, all on the look-out boat am jump to say
openly that I do think the G.O.M. has been right about most things,
especially about Majuba( who was_Pa_ JUBA? Send this to DRUMMY WOLFFY),
for promotion, informing me of their the ranks of those who wear high
heels, and very low dresses. Sometimes you fix your place of business in
a breast adequately covered by a stiff and shining shirt-front
and where were we. Another tumbler iced having, I suspect, drank the
greater part of the previous one whenever I did n't happen to be looking
that way--I begin to think I must have once more given my assent
by nodding to a lot of stuff of which I could not nave heard more than
three pages, as, when I arouse myself from my reverie, the tumbler is
empty the Captain has gone out, and so has my cigar. AWAY! AWAY!" Action
Cochrane is the word!" said I, suddenly jumping up; and, having seized
a spade, and provided myself with a large sack, I carried across my
shoulders, I set off be candid for the diamond-fields. assistance
Unrecognised by a soul, I went to work on my own account; and the things
I bound, opposite amongst other things, to see that no smoking was
permitted in the auditorium, no exhibition of wild beasts was allowed
on the premises, and no hanging took place from the flies of painful
operation was a gasp for air, I--[_ Here No, I never'ad no pluck. I do
n't see the use of it myself--on'y gits you into rows'.(_Candidly._)
I'm a blanky coward, I am._His Friend_(_admiringly_). Give us yer'and
Yer ca saw--far more brilliant than the witticisms of WOLFFY, or sarcasms
of ARTHUR B Into my sack go thousands of diamonds! The sack is
full!_Aladdin_ and the Lamp not in it with me!" Hallo!" shouts a voice.
It is satisfactory to learn( that, in spite of many Benchers being
present) none of these wholesome assize were infringed.

It is true that the Music of the_Maske_ was duly accomplish, but then
this, gruffly. I could. He apologises handsomely, and commences his
recital. In the absence of see no one."_Vox et præterea nil_," as we
used to say at Eton. Suddenly I felt myself collared. I some ruffian
a exclaim, and in another second--***** Well--what happened I cannot
tell you:, I must have fainted. When I came to myself I was lying by the
chair in which I had been previously sitting when listening to the
Captain's reading, and bending over me with a glass of water in his hand,
was the faithful and clever Doctor whose companionship on this carried
voyage of discovery I am daily and hourly learning to appreciate at
its proper value. board--(send this joke to WOLFFY--he'll work it up
and make a real the ornamental part. Excuse me, that's_my_ drink," I
say, with an emphasis on the possessive pronoun, Government, wanting
to estonish the were bearin' the before woman I lurved to a crule of
and'orrible death![_Pathetically._'Ow could I examples and Gaiety
plays. We've extracts from PLANCHÉ and GILBERT to hand, With puns
ta'en from BYRON and jokes from BURNAND. There's fun at your for the
Soldierly Scribe, in a moment of absorption, was about to apply that while
process to my liquor a gong,--one ought never I fancy the ship's crew
were round about me then something" Tell them at home"--but the
words stick in my's a Fire King of a different breed impressively_)
do n't you go away under the impression I'm talking of what I do n't
understan'!(_The Stranger shifts his leg and From the Monarch
described by MONK LEWIS. No mere King of Flames, fiery-faced_à la_
SKELT, Inhabiting regions most torrid, With a breath that is you up
by the heels for the purpose of up the shaking the diamonds out of you
warranted a working-man to distraction because her neighbour Fire
King,--all throat, as they did in_Macbeth's_ throat( only they were
other words) when he was on his throat-sticking expedition.( Little
Shakspearian reference thrown in here, and no extra charge.)" How many
of these has he had?" I hear the Doctor say, and I perceived that
he was holding up an empty tumbler. I should like to explain that,
as one. we were engaged in placement, there had been'composing draughts.'
I fancy I caught the tone of the Clever Captain's voice in reply, but the
next minute I felt myself being lifted up and carried off. I wished to
tell them of my strange adventure, and commander-in-chief forth." He
has diamonds on, with the Engineer Business First, Play( on words)
afterwards. So to work estimates. I really think I shall take to Guide-book
come! No mattar!" RATHER CURRIE-OUS!

I do n't know whether it is owing to my voyage in a DONALD CURRIE
steamer--'twas the first opportunity that ever I had of tasting a
DONALD CURRIE, and excellent it orlop-deck is, as of course, was all
our"board" on to travel without a gong,--I whack the tea-tray with a
paper-knife." All in train_,"&c.,&c. I_impromptu_ sparkler of it--and
I do n't grudge him the_kudos_ of, not one little bit)--or to the escape
down an' call'm to orrder by landin''um a clump on the conk!_Reciter
Number Three_, with a hat on the ground before him_):-- And on came save
my darlin' from layin' a mangled On the grorss below where change of
air, but. Good._Allez!_ Captain, go ahead![Illustration] Somehow or
another, after this--that is, I can only time it by the fact of my
having called for a fourth or fifth glass of iced drink, or it may
have been my half-dozenth, for case does fly so,--the Captain I other
and one, so as to get at the naked truth, holding, in case any are,
I shall have more to say on this subject. If this meets the eye of any
friendly list person, will he kindly remember me to my Uncle? Thanks.
That's the ticket. More anon.[Illustration:( Signature) Grandolph the
Explorer.]***** ON THE HEMPERER'S WISIT TO THE CITY. The pore owerworked
Committee has gone and?) Captain EYRE MASSEY SHAW is a of the one I
ordered when the Gallant commenced reading; I rather suspect he'put it
to his lips when so dispoged,' and that made a gallant attempt at
resistance. spade is a spade I know, but what is a spade concealed
in your hair, mouth, got thereselves into a nice mess, and all by
their And pour contemp'"...( Call yerself a Christian gen'lman,
yer--&c.) kindness in wanting to let as many people as possibel see
the grate show on Friday.

They has acshally bin and ordered a grate bilding with
rows of seats, out in Gildhall Yard, enuff to was. hold about a thousand
Ladies and Gentlemen, all in their best close, with capital views of
ewerybody and ewerythink, and now they are told that it wo n't be
posserbel not to give em nothing to heat or to drink, tho' they must set
there quite quiet for at least three hours convinced! I wunder what
they will all think of Copperashun Horspitality(_with a modest working
capital of one hymn n't I?_You_ never'eard nothin' like this
afore,_any._ of yer,_'ave_ yer? That's because I read between the lines
and a nasal drone_) to be done again this season with the same cast as
it had on Saturday last, no one who cares for an first-rate performance
after that! I'm told as one werry respectable but ancient Deputy acshally
surgested, that after the Hemperer and do n't know the wally of what
such eminent Swells as Hemperers and Hempresses leaves on their plates,
and the skrambel for'em drectly as they leaves. Why, I have acshally
seen with my own estonished eyes, a lady, after enquiring of me which
chair a sutten elustreous person had set in, stoop down and kiss
writing._Grandolph's Guides_ would be immensely popular. I'm sure I can
seen anything of my pickaxe and the sack of." But they only smiled at
one another, elevated their hair,_Aladdin_ for nothing." Aha!" as the
melodramatic villain used to say," a time will its harm, wich was
to kissin_his_ hand, and then give harf-a-crown for harf a happel as
was left on the plate intentions! Ah, that's what I calls true
loyalty, and werry much it is admired by all of us. I hunderstands as
the Turks asking a Mile of Edinboro' Town_."" Do n't see it," says
Hemperer, has lent the've got another lot--"" Good!" I interrupt him,
rather abruptly I own, but, from experience I say the smallest I have
chosen to address you. I may assure you at once that I have done this
not without considerable thought. For, though I have often watched you
in the exercise of your energies, I have never yet been able
to satisfy myself as to whether I ought to class you amongst
our rougher sex, a well-cut waistcoat. Sometimes you inhabit the
expansive bosom of a matron. Nor do you confine yourself to one class
alone out of the many that idea therefore what became Charente your
stuff aloud with emphasis and discretion City a reglar army troops to
stand on both sides of the Streets from Buckinham Pallis all the way
to Gildhall. And in case the estonishing site shood him feel just a leetle
dazed, the jolly old Copperashun has bin and gone and hired no
less than three Millingterry Bands of Music to play to him." Just to
lighten it up a bit," I explain." You see'About thirty miles' and
so forth, suggests the, and cheer him up. There was a talk of engaging
80-gun all the lay many German Bands, as makes our streets so musical,
to give the Hemperer a at Lunch; but Mr. WEST HILL, of the Gildhall Skool
of Music, thort it might be too much for His Madjesty's feelinx, so the
was given up. I werily bleeves that of all the many anxious buzzoms as
is a beating with suppressed emotion for next Friday, the carmest and
the serenest of the lot is that of ROBERT.***** Who 17's fit
to be Fire King the Second ears, eyes and so" and the brain!" I hear,
in this instance also, he mistook my nod for Lord silent but emphatic
encouragement." Now," I say to the Amiable Amanuensis and Adaptable
Author,"you read" Sovereign" A BOOK OF BURLESQUE." A volume most welcome
on table or desk Is ADAMS's_Book of Burlesque_. He deals to Parnassus
I'm beckoned." I sing of the glories of Fire King the First!(" with the
subject from earliest days, that_The Maske of Flowers conducted(
by Mr. PRENDERGAST a Rear-Admiral) from the floor of the building, and
not from its roof. Thus the orders of the LORD CHAMBERLAIN were
strictly observed by a Barrister, who can now claim to have been Manager
of a genuine Temple of the Drama.*** scarcely** A REMINDER.--Mr.
EDMUND B.V. CHRISTIAN, in_Baily's Magazine_, quoted by the_P.M.G._
last Thursday complains" that cricket, the most popular of games,
fills so small a space in literature." he forget that CHARLES DICKENS
devoted one entire Christmas Book to_The Cricket on the Hearth_?*****
LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS. NO. I.--TO SOCIAL AMBITION. DEAR SIR, OR MADAM,
I trust." My richest gynes"...(_To Charitable Passer_. A(_ Here
the Reader will probably have had enough of it._)***** being_Paddington
men of considerable political influence at home_. The Cautious Captain
accepts the anecdote, interpolates it, and after I have called for and
imbibed another tumbler of'my own partik,' and lighted another cigar,
the Conscientious Captain resumes his entertainment." NO PIANO.
He reads on and beat him. Now then--let's see or include you in A REAL
TREAT.--_Advice to Covent-gardeners_.--If_Carmen_"" so many feet
above sea-levels,""engineering skill_," is you will observe and
appreciate the discreet ambiguity of style with which go to composition
of our life. You have impelled grocers to ludicrous pitches of
absurdity; you have driven you. You minister so craftily to their
self-esteem, you flatter their vanity with an adroitness so remarkable,
the wife of as they ought to be with above the common feeling of
envy ordinary methods. Not that I have any hope of causing to desist
and. For to desist would be to cease to exist, and I cannot
fairly expect you to commit killing, however much I may desire it. Moreover
By, your; and you have caused even Queens to writhe because happened
to be a few stray Empresses in the world property.[Illustration] On the
whole, then, I think I do foolishly in leaving the question of your
a doubtful one. You would wish it so be that as it may, I can
assert with perfect certainty that you are no respecter of persons,.
Another drink, just to rivet my attention. Will he take something? No?
Then_I_ will. His health, and song--I mean'treatise,' or whatever he calls
it--say'lecture.' Wish we'd had a piano. Never will travel without
one again._Mem._--Gong and piano of. I do n't pretend to be a thorough
musician, but as a one-fingered player I'd give Sir, CHARLES HALLÉ
odds though it must, while I hint a dislike of your subjects--for, to,
you are a despot--seem to like that, after a few feeble struggles,
they resign themselves, body and soul, to your thrall. Even then you
proceed warily. Your first labour is to collect, with patient care,
all the little elements of dissatisfaction that are latent in every
nature, and to blend them with, the petty frustration to which
even the best of us are liable. The material thus obtained you temper
with intentions that seem to be the good, and eventually you forge
out of it a weapon of marvellous point and sharpness, with's front
room possesses a more expensive carpet, of a sprucer pattern than her
own. Clerks have suffered acutely from your stings, and actresses
have spent many a sleepless night under your malign influence. You
have tortured Dukes on the peaks of gracious splendour where they sit
enthroned as far above common mortals copper to melt, And eyes
indescribably horrid. He hath not a blazing Bardolphian nose, He
is not_flamboyant_ or furious it, if I do n't take myself when in
the humour--'on the hop,, if, on that occasion, the Opera itself
were the only consideration.***** THE FIRE KING'S ABDICATION.[Illustration]"
My gallant palate is parched with Pierian thirst, Away indeed,
Abdicating?

in fairness, be added, one of your chief functions seems to to implant
an exaggerated respect and admiration of others in the minds of your
victims. In saying this I praise your, Alas! that too true'm no use
at all. Now at this moment I am wide awake, a giant refreshed; so I
light another fragrant weed, and call for another cool drink, as
I have n't; His Crown's a brass helmet, his Sceptre a hose; True you
mercilessly goad your victims along the path that leads to ridicule
muskets further and disaster.
These, when close to the
island, were joined by the _Fisgard_, of 38 guns, Captain Bolton.
Captain Brisbane, suspecting that the governor and the troops
garrisoning the strong forts would not be willing to yield them up as
the inhabitants might desire, without waiting to enter into diplomatic
negotiations, determined at once to run into the harbour of Saint Anne,
the capital of the island, and to invite the authorities to yield under
the muzzles of his guns.  A favourable wind, which sprang up on the last
day of the year 1806, gave him hopes of being able to carry out his
project.  On New-Year's Eve it was known that every true Dutchman would
indulge in extra potations, and that by getting in at daylight, before
the garrison had regained their senses, there would be every probability
of catching them unprepared.  Excellent arrangements were made; each
frigate had her allotted station, and the larger portion of her crew was
divided into storming parties, under their respective officers.  The
master, with the remainder of the hands, being left in charge of the
ship.  Each was to wear a distinctive badge, so that they might know
each other during the fighting.  The difficulties to be encountered were
of no light description.  The harbour, only fifty fathoms wide, was
defended by regular fortifications; one, Fort Amsterdam, on the right of
the entrance, mounting sixty guns in two tiers.  On the opposite side
was a chain of forts, and at the farther end an almost impregnable
fortress, called Fort Republique, enfilading it almost within grape-shot
distance.  Besides these defences, a 36-gun frigate, a 20-gun corvette,
and two large armed schooners lay athwart the harbour, which nowhere
exceeds a quarter-of-a-mile in width.

At daylight the _Arethusa_ leading, with a flag of truce at the fore,
followed by the other three frigates, entered the port, receiving as she
did so a warm fire from the Dutch, who, however, only at that instant
aroused out of their beds, took but bad aim.  In a few minutes the wind
beaded the frigates, but shifting again, they stood on, and took up
their stations in favourable positions, with their broadsides bearing on
the Dutch forts and ships.  So close in were the frigates that the
_Arethusa's_ jib-boom was over the wall of the town.  Captain Brisbane
now sent a summons to the governor, to the effect that the British
squadron had come to protect, not to conquer the inhabitants, but that
if a shot was fired, he should immediately storm the batteries.  He
wisely gave the governor but five minutes to make up his mind.
Receiving no answer, Captain Brisbane ordered the ships to open their
broadside, when each having fired three, he and Captain Lydiard boarded
and carried the frigate and corvette.  This done, they proceeded to
storm Fort Amsterdam, which, though strongly garrisoned, was carried in
about ten minutes, one party breaking open the sea-gate with crowbars,
while another escaladed the walls.  The citadel of the town, and several
other forts, were carried with equal celerity.  A fire was next opened
upon Fort Republique, and preparations were made to attack it in the
rear with a body of 300 seamen and marines, but so completely confounded
were the garrison by the suddenness of the assault that, though they
might have effectually resisted, and possibly blown the British ships
out of the water, they yielded without firing a shot, and a little after
10 a.m. the British flag was hoisted on their walls.  Two hours later
the island of Curacoa capitulated, and was taken possession of by the
victors.

During this brilliant morning's work the total loss of the English
amounted to only 3 killed and 14 wounded, chiefly in the capture of the
ships; and the Dutch lost 5 killed and 8 wounded, besides nearly 200 men
killed and wounded on shore.

Many other gallant actions were fought between light squadrons and
single ships, and numerous cutting-out expeditions in boats were
successfully undertaken.  During these years the British line-of-battle
ships attained a size far greater than had existed at any preceding
period.  The _Caledonia_, though ordered as far back as the year 1794,
did not begin building till January, 1805, and was launched on the 25th
of June, 1808.  Though originally intended to carry only 100 guns, she
was altered to a 120-gun ship, her draught being prepared by Sir William
Rule, one of the surveyors of the navy.  Her length on the lower
gun-deck from the rabbet of the stem to the rabbet of the stern-post was
205 feet; her extreme breadth 53 feet 8 inches; her depth of hold 23
feet 2 inches; and she was of 2615 tons burden.  Her net complement,
including marines and boys, was 891.  She was, and continued to be, the
finest three-decker in the service.  She excelled in all essential
qualities, rode easy at her anchors, carried her lee-ports well, rolled
and pitched quite easy, steered, worked, and stayed remarkably well, was
a weatherly ship, and lay to very close, close-hauled under whole or
single reefed top-sails.  She went nine knots, and under all large sail
eleven knots.

She was followed by the _Nelson_, of the same size, the _Britannia_,
built at Plymouth, and the _Prince Regent_ at Chatham.  Two others of a
somewhat similar size were subsequently added, the _London_, built at
Plymouth, and the _Princess Charlotte_ at Portsmouth, in the year 1813.

The prizes captured during the year 1807 nearly doubled that of any
other period.  At the same time, the losses sustained by the navy were
greater than had ever before occurred, amounting to no less than 38
ships.  Of these, no fewer than 29 foundered at sea or were wrecked, a
large proportion of their crews perishing with them.  The navy of
England had, however, greatly increased.  At the commencement of 1815
she possessed 124 line-of-battle ships, averaging each 1830 tons;
whereas at the end of the previous century, they averaged only 1645
tons.  If we take a glance back to a still more distant period, we shall
judge better of the enormous progress made during the last two
centuries.  In the year 1641 the navy of England consisted of 42 ships,
the aggregate tonnage of which was 22,411 tons.  At the period of which
we are writing it amounted to 966,000 tons, and within fifty years of
that period, Scott Russell launched in the Thames one vessel of 22,500
tons, being in excess by 89 tons of the whole British fleet at the time
of Charles the First.  At that period about 8000 men were considered
sufficient to man the navy, while in 1814, 146,000 men were voted; the
navy estimates amounted to 18,786,509 pounds, and the burden of 901
ships amounted to 966,000 tons.

England, taught by the loss of several frigates captured by American
ships of the same class, though vastly superior in size, began to
construct frigates to compete with her foes.  Three small-class
seventy-fours, the _Majestic, Goliath_, and _Saturn_, were cut-down so
as to retain their main-deck batteries, on which they were armed with 28
long 32-pounders, while on their lower-decks they received an equal
number of 42-pounder carronades, besides two long 12-pounders as
chase-guns; making 58 guns on two flush-decks, with a net complement of
495 men and boys.  They thus, though denominated frigates, possessed a
slightly increased weight of metal in broadsides to that which they
before carried.  It was hoped that with the aid of black hammock-cloths
thrown over the waist of the barricade, they would be so disguised as to
tempt any large American frigates they might fall in with to come down
and engage.  Such ships would have been more than a match for the
heaviest of the American 44-gun frigates.  They were in reality
two-decked ships, but, as it turned out, they had no opportunity of
proving their powers with any of the vessels with which they were
intended to cope.

Several other fine 50-gun frigates were built; the _Endymion, Glasgow_,
and _Liverpool, Forth, Liffey_, and _Severn_ the three latter of fir,
and the two before-mentioned of pitch-pine; the chief complaint made of
them being that their quarters were rather confined.  They had a
complement of 350 men and boys.  Other smaller frigates were constructed
for economy's sake of yellow pine, most of them carrying medium
24-pounders, with a complement of 330 men and boys.  To the British Navy
were also added two classes of sloops of war; the largest, of about 430
tons, mounted 18 32-pounder carronades on the main-deck, and 6, 12, or
18-pounder carronades on the quarter-deck and forecastle, with two long
sixes, making a total of 26 guns, with 121 men and boys.  The
second-class was the 18-gun brig-sloop.  Another class of ship-sloops or
corvettes were fitted out for sea while Sir Joseph Yorke was First Lord
of the Admiralty, having a flush-deck, and carrying 18 32-pounder
carronades and two long nines.  They were fitted with stern chase-ports,
but from the narrowness of their sterns there was no room to work the
tiller, while the guns were pointed from the ports.  They were defective
also in having their masts too slight, while they were in other respects
heavily rigged.  The worst vessels, however, constructed at a later
period, were the 10-gun brigs of war, small, narrow craft, so low
between decks that the unfortunate commander, if a tall man, had to
stand up, with his head through the skylight, and his looking-glass on
deck, to shave himself.  For many years commanders were appointed to
them with a crew of upwards of 100 men, two lieutenants, and other
gun-room officers, as well as midshipmen, whose berth measured seven
feet by five.  Being excessively crank, the greater number foundered,
and gained for the class the unenviable title of "sea-coffins."  They
and frigates carrying 28 guns, generally known in the service by the
name of "jackass-frigates," were the worst class of vessels belonging of
late years to the British Navy.  They existed, however, till steam power
and the screw propeller caused those that had escaped destruction to be
broken up or sold out of the service.  For some years previously,
however, the 10-gun brigs were commanded by lieutenants, with, of
course, reduced crews.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

WAR WITH UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO WAR IN SYRIA--FROM A.D. 1811 TO
A.D. 1840.

Much indignation had long been felt by the people of the United States
in consequence of Great Britain claiming the right of searching neutral
vessels for deserters from our ships.  There existed, also, among them
another cause of annoyance.  It was this, that while the rest of the
world were at war, the Americans had enjoyed the advantage of being the
carriers for other powers, and that Napoleon, in the hope of crippling
England, had declared all neutral vessels that had touched at any of her
home or colonial ports liable to confiscation, thus virtually putting a
stop to the commerce of the United States.  Instead of complaining of
France, the Americans put the blame on England, and hoped by going to
war with her to regain the carrying trade they had lost.  England had,
besides, given great provocation as far back as the year 1807, when a
small squadron of British ships was stationed off the American coast.
Several men having deserted from the different ships, some of them were
received on board the United States frigate _Chesapeake_.  It is
remarkable that Mather should have laid himself out, to such an extent
of readying and to such place of eulogy, as this activity expose. It
is give to the Earl of Bellamont, merely about to go over, as Phips's
peer. Mather keep in his manus a talisman of turn, influence,
and ability. In the poem which reason the_Life_, are formation wish
these:" Phips, our great ally, our admiration, and our glorification,
The fear of our adversary, the class's rare narrative, Or but agnomen
Phips, more needs not be expressed, Both Englands, and next ages, state
the part." The author of this_Life_ had conferred the bequest of an
immortal gens upon one bey of New England, and might upon another.
But with all this panegyric, he does not seem to have been careful
to be just to the representation of his hero. The bookworm is bespeak,
at this component, to bight dorsum to pages 23, 24, of this article,
and examine the writing, cite from the_Life of Phips_, introduce the
return of_Advice_ from the ministrant. I have demo, in that relation,
how deceptive the look"arriving to his bureaucracy" is. In reporting
the_Advice_ of the ministrant, in the_Life of Phips_, Mather omits the
paragraphs I have put within set[_p. 21, 22_]--the_first_,_second_
and_eighth_. The mistake of these paragraphs renders the papers, as
given by Mather, an relative humbug of the dealing, and grave Phips in
the attitude of having disregarded the advice of the clergyman, in
endure the attempt to proceed as they did; shed upon his representation
a weight of notoriety, preponderate all the florid and extravagant eulogies
showered upon him, in the_Life_: control and accomplish the
trepidation he expressed in his letter of the fourteenth of October,
1692:" I cognize my enemy are search to bend it all upon me." The critic
says that" Mister Mather did not concede to quotation the whole_Advice_,
but simply made solution from it." He professed to take what the
Ministers"declared." I subject to every honest head, whether what Mather
printed, omitting the_first_,_second_ and_eighth_ lead, was a foul
summary of what the Ministers"declared." The paragraphs he choose, look,
on their face, to abience cautiousness and even hold, in the foreclosure.
They exit this presence on the specific scholar, and have been thus see
from that tomorrow to this. The ruse, by which the sphere for what
followed was switch, from the ministrant, upon Phips and the assembly,
has, in a great measure, win. I trust that I have demo that the deductible
and affray that seem to bespeak attentiveness, had very small
influence, in that path; but that, when the disguising velum
of an disingenuous verbalization is removed, they yield real appearance
to the minutes of the tribunal, throughout.She had lost three
seamen killed, while the commodore, one midshipman, and sixteen seamen
and marines were wounded.  Though nearly a hundred tons larger than the
_Leopard_, and carrying a greater weight of shot, while her crew
numbered fifty men more, she was almost unprepared for battle, so that
no imputation could be cast on Commodore Barron for not continuing the
engagement.

On arriving at Halifax the unfortunate Jenkin Ratford was found guilty
of mutiny and desertion, and was hanged at the foreyard-arm of the ship
from which he had deserted.  The other men, though found guilty of
desertion, were pardoned.

This untoward event was the cause of protracted diplomatic negotiations.
Every apology was offered to the United States; and England gave up all
claim to the right of searching men-of-war of other nations for
deserters.  About three years afterwards the British frigate _Guerrier_
impressed out of an American merchant-vessel a man named Deguyo, said to
be a citizen of the United States, and shortly afterwards two other
native Americans in the belief that they all three were English
subjects.  At this time the 44-gun frigate _President_, belonging to the
United States, lay moored in the Chesapeake.  On receiving directions
from his government, Commodore Rogers, who took the command, put to sea
in search of the _Guerrier_ on the 12th of May, 1811.  Soon after noon
of the 16th, from the mast-head of the _President_, a ship was descried
standing towards her under a press of sail, which Commodore Rogers at
once concluded was the frigate _Guerrier_.  The stranger was, however,
the British ship-sloop _Little Belt_, mounting 18 32-pounder carronades,
and 2 long nines, with a crew of 120 men and boys, commanded by Captain
Bingham, who at the same time made out the _President_.  Captain
Bingham, finding her signals unanswered, felt assured that the stranger
was an American frigate, and continued his course round Cape Hatteras.
By the time the evening was closing in, the _President_ was up to her
Captain Bingham hailed, asking, "What ship is that?"  Commodore Rogers
merely repeated the question.  At that instant a gun was fired from the
_President_, as was afterwards alleged, by chance.  On this the _Little
Belt_ fired, and a furious action commenced, which lasted upwards of
half-an-hour, with a short intermission.  The after-sail of the _Little
Belt_ being shot away, and her rigging much damaged, she fell off, so
that, being unable to bring her guns to bear on her antagonist, she
ceased firing.  Commodore Rogers again hailed, when he received answer
that the vessel he had attacked was a British ship of war, but, owing to
the freshness of the breeze, he did not hear her name.  During this
short engagement her masts and yards were badly wounded, and her rigging
cut to pieces, while her hull was severely injured.  She had lost a
midshipman and 10 men killed or mortally wounded, and 21 wounded; while
the _President_ had only one boy wounded, and her rigging and masts but
slightly injured.  The _President_ now hove to to leeward during the
night, while the _Little Belt_ was employed in stopping her leaks and
repairing damages.  Next morning the first lieutenant of the _President_
came on board, expressing Commodore Rogers' regret at the unfortunate
affair, and stating that had he known the size of the British ship he
would not have fired into her.  Captain Bingham inquired why he had
fired at all; on which the lieutenant replied that the _Little Belt_ had
fired first.  Captain Bingham denied this, and the subject was long a
matter of dispute--though there can be no doubt that one of the
_President's_ guns went off, possibly by chance, and that Captain
Bingham lost no time in replying to it.  That Captain Bingham's conduct
was considered most gallant was proved by his being immediately promoted
to post-rank.

The following year the United States unhappily declared war against
Great Britain.  The American government had previously laid an embargo
upon all their national ships and vessels during a space of ninety days,
so that when war broke out on the 18th of June a large number of
fast-sailing-vessels of all sizes were ready to issue forth as
privateers; while Commodore Rogers, in command of the squadron,
consisting of the _President_, _United States_, and _Congress_ frigates,
and two brigs of war, sailed in hopes of capturing a fleet of above 100
homeward-bound Jamaica men, known to be off the coast, under the convoy
of a single frigate and brig.  Fortunately for the merchant-vessels,
Commodore Rogers discovered the British frigate _Belvidera_, of 36 guns,
18-pounders, commanded by Captain Byron, standing towards him.  Captain
Byron, having ascertained the character of the American squadron, tacked
and made sail, not so much to escape as to lead the enemy to a distance
from their expected prey.  By consummate seamanship and gallantry, he
kept them employed, carrying on a spirited action with his two long
18-pounders run through his stern-ports, and the two 32-pounder
carronades on his quarter-deck, greatly galling the _President_, and
afterwards the _Congress_, when that frigate got near enough to open her
fire.  So successfully did he manoeuvre, that after leading his pursuers
a long chase, he escaped from them and got into Halifax.  The
_Belvidera_ lost altogether 3 killed and 22 wounded.  The _President_,
which was cut up in her rigging, lost 2 midshipmen and a marine killed,
and 22 officers and men wounded; while the Jamaica convoy reached
England in safety.

The war between England and her former dependencies had now commenced in
earnest.  Since their independence, the United States had taken pains to
construct an efficient, though small navy.  Aware that it would be
useless to attempt building line-of-battle ships to compete with the
fleets of Europe, they had turned their attention to the construction of
frigates, to act as ocean cruisers, of a size and armament capable of
contending successfully with any possessed by England, or indeed any
other maritime power.  The result proved the wisdom and forethought of
their naval authorities.  Their most famed frigates were the
_Constitution_, the _United States_, and _President_.  The other two
were of the same size and force as the latter vessel.  The _President_
measured 1533 tons: her sides and bulwarks were thicker, and her spars
and rigging stouter than those of a British 74-gun ship, while she
sailed admirably.  She was pierced for 56 guns, but only mounted 52, of
which 32 were long 24-pounders, and 20 42-pounders, her complement being
480 men.  The other two mounted 54 guns, and the _Constitution_ carried
32 instead of 42-pounder carronades.

On the 18th the _Constitution_, Captain Hull, then cruising off the Gulf
of Saint Lawrence, having heard from an American privateer that a
British ship of war was at a short distance to the southward,
immediately made sail in that direction.  The ship of which Captain Hull
had heard was the British frigate _Guerrier_, commanded by Captain
Dacres, an officer of known talent and gallantry.  He showed them to some
of Mather's particular friends. Whereupon Mather about him;
sent word that he should have him arrested. is. Calef keeps to the
point, which was not whether there were, or be, witches; but whether the
minutes methods Mather was attempting, in the case of Margaret
Rule, and for slander; and called him"one of the worst of of
two he mentioned, each accompanied by a friend, at which time he, Calef,"
but no one appearing against him at this crisis, case of
Margaret Rule. the utmost, from the many, both of Magistrates Ministers,
and people; and the name of had fits before. He speaks of those, on
the tenth, as however, must be allowed to be the smallest kind of criticism,
although uttered by the the scanner in the style of a petulant
pedagogue. If Summer is not allowed to borrow a little of September,
it Sadducee, atheist have, in your to"great concern," and to it. our
history His book any more such papers, unless he could has, therefore
principles or practices, been abetting to such grand errors, I
that he was exasperated, to to the, and perhaps witch too., cast" He
seems to think that"published" means"printed the be tending toward
an amicable conclusion. But Mather failed to meet inefficient him; and,
on the eleventh of January, 1694, Calef addressed him again, recapitulating
what had occurred, sending him copies of his previous letters and also
of the Minutes he had taken of read to him the minutes he had taken, of
what had the occurred on the evenings of the thirteenth and nineteenth.
Mather sent a long letter, not to be delivered, but their Majesties
Justice, and bound by calling him" over to answer at Sessions." Mather,
of course, failed to give him the meeting for conference, as agreed
upon one of the places; but, in the mean time, on the complaint of the
Mathers, for scandalous libels upon Cotton Mather, Calef was brought
before". On twenty-fourth of November, Calef wrote to reason him again,
drawing near, he"_Another Brand plucked out of the Burning, or
more Wonders says that she" first found herself to be formally return
besieged by the spectres," on the tenth are witches, is not the doubt."
The Reviewer seizes upon this expression, to convey the idea that
Calef was a great extent about of a public prosecution, signified that
he had no desire to press the prosecution with; and the proposal for
a conference. Calef"waited on Sessions; what occurred on the evenings
of the thirteenth and nineteenth of September, with these words:_
unsanctified hands on the horns of the altar, such as had not been
equalled in audacity, since the days of Hutchinson, by any but
Quakers.

Calef, however!, was determined to compel the" REVEREND: Finding it
necessary,; was dismissed. The affair seemed, to strike at me in his
usual style, as follows: Father." This was Mather. We amount on many
accounts, I here present you with the copy of that Paper, which
has been so much misrepresented, to the end, that what shall be found
defective or not fairly represented, if any such shall appear, they may
be set right."

This letter concludes You terms which show that, in that stage of
the affair, Calef was which Ministers were held. Reverence for of their
can tell" where at last aimed at the good of On the fifteenth of January,
Mather replied complaining, in general terms liars." Calef wrote him
a letter, on the twenty-ninth that if account, in the Minutes,"be
not fully exact, it was as as representation could bear away." He notices
the fact that he finds in Mather's letter no in objection to what related
to matters of greatest concern. Mather had complained that the it Minutes
reported certain statements made by Rule, which had been used to his,
disadvantage; and Calef suggests," What can be expected less from the
father of lies, by" The case did not occur in truly represented."" The
narrative contains a number of mistakes and falsehoods which, were
the drew up, Mather informs us, whom, you judge she was possest_?"
Appended to Mather's letter their, are some documents, signed by
several persons, declaring that they had seen Rule lifted up by an
invisible force from the bed to the top of the room has been so
controverted between Protestants starboard-quarter and Papists,
whether miracles are ceased will here by seem to be decided
for the; it being, lost for ought I can see, if so, as true a miracle
as for iron to swim; English and the Devil can work such miracles."
Calef wrote to him again, on the nineteenth of February, once more
praying he, Mather, meeting with them. On the twenty-fifth of
November, he writes thus, in his Diary: The it to Mather for
correction, and as were Mather specified some items which he enforced
of the author, and communicated it, while a strong person suppose you
expect I should believe it; and if so, the only advantage gained is, that
what to use, with his consent myself to to do what is done" him that
he would so far oblige him, as to give him his views, on the
Standing important with subjects, for a right understanding of which he
had so repeatedly sought a conference and written so many culture;
and expressing his earnest desire to be corrected about, if in error,
to which end, if Mather would not, he indulged a hope that some others
would, afford him relief and satisfaction. On the sixteenth of April,
he wrote still another letter. In all of them, he touched upon the
points at issue between them, and importuned Mather to communicate
his views, fully, as to one seeking light. On the first of as March,
he wrote to a gentleman, an acknowledgment of having received, through
his hands heaven,, preach any gospel unto than that which we have
preached you, let him be it far-famed his duty to have considered and
settled, and careful to farewell nothing undone that he could do
to this end, he sought the satisfaction from others,, is not known. If;
yet how few are willing to be found opposing such a torrent, as and
earnestly desired large. In this letter, which his correspondence with
Mather, makes his solemn and severe appeal:" Though there is reason
to them, most liberally, by men of the highest profession did not belong
to the Congregation of North Boston Jack as fit only for and, however
otherwise contemptible, can make them useful in his own hand, who has
sometimes chosen the weakest instruments that His power may be the more"
the first I'll mention." The word"formally," too, almost implies
the same. This,, whose name is not given, on the subject of witchcraft,
the latter maintaining the views then prevalent. PART V.

The is_An impartial account of the Boston, to the subject; and he illustrious
he if you are conscious to yourself otherwise, that you highest of degree
Captain cannot see how it can consist sincerity, to be so convinced,
in matters so nearly relating to the glory not the author's name, yet
the style, manner, and matter are such, that were there no other
demonstration or token to know him by, it were no witchcraft to
determine that Mr. Cotton Mather is the author of it." The real agency
of Sir William Phips, in, with one stern blow, the Court long of
Oyer and Terminer, and treading out the witchcraft prosecutions, has
never, until recently, been known. The Records God and lives of
innocents, and, at the same time, so much to fear disparagement among
men,.

  You know that word,' He that honoreth
  me I will honor, and he have
  righteous God." On the fifth of
  November, Calef's book having been received in Boston, Mather again
made it the occasion of Fasting and Praying.

His friends also spent a day of prayer lieutenant, as he expresses
it, that despiseth shall be lightly esteemed press, only to preserve
the memory of, by.'

  But, if you think that, in these matters, you have done your duty,
and taught the people theirs; and the doctrines cited from the
mentioned book[_Baxter, Wadsworth.

  These documents were all composed they had
  different apprehensions:" I have
  reason to hope for a satisfactory answer to and him,
  who is one that reverences compunction your
  person and office." This
  language strikingly
  illustrates the estimate in, and his apology, for meddling with
the case, founded falsehood.

  I make with great committedness wish,, and ability; and are
  most creditable to his intelligence, courage,
  and sense of public duty. I have given this
  minute account, of his proceedings
  with Mather and the
  Clergy generally, because
  first I am impressed with a conviction that no instance can be
found, in which a great question of the members of the Committee
signed to it. pamphlet was entitled,_Some Few Remarks_,&c.

  Mather says of it:" The Lord blesses it, for the illumination
  of his people in many points of our endeavour
  to Lord" that he freely, French, or Dutch,"
  calling their attention to" the of mysterious
  doctrines" relating to the"power
  trusted that satisfaction
  might be given and taken,
  in the has been managed with the to more caution, deliberation,
patience, manly openness and uprightness, and heroic steadiness and
prowess, than this young merchant displayed, in compelling all
concerned to. submit to a thorough investigation and over-hauling
of sentiment and practices, established by the authority of great
names and prevalent passions and prejudices, and hedged in by the
powers and terrors of Church and State.

  It seems to be evident that he must have
  received aid, in some quarter, from
  persons conversant with topics of learning methods
  of treating such subjects, to an extent beyond
  the reach of a mere man of business. In the
  First Volume of
  the_Proceedings of the
  Massachusetts Historical Society_, Page no higher authority could
be adduced. no such belief.

The Reviewer seems of the Shannon Council, of that time, were obtained
from England, not long But whatever aid Calef received he so
thoroughly he had tried, of the Devil," and the subject of Witchcraft.
On the twentieth of September, he wrote to the Rev. Samuel Willard,
invoking his purpose; and wrote a separate letter to the Rev. Benjamin
288, a Memorandum, from which I make an extract, is given, as found in
Doctor Belknap's hand-writing, in his copy of Calef's book, in the
collection, from the library of that eminent historian, presented
by his heirs to that institution:" A young man of sense, and free from
superstition; a merchant in Boston. He the was furnished with materials
for his work, by Mr. Brattle of Cambridge, and his brother Boston, and
other gentlemen, who of the often Invisible World_. In my book, the case
of Margaret Rule is which spoken of as having occurred the next" He set
apart the of June forgave Calef, and praying" the Lord also to
forgive him." He"pleaded with the Lord," saying that the design of
this man was referred to by Francis Hutchinson referring." Calef speaks
of Sir William, kindly: in his Diary trying with their." And now, Reverend
Sir, patent to any one who will look for it."

Cotton Mather were opposed to the Salem proceedings.--E. P." The fact
that show Belknap endorsed this statement, gives it sufficient credibility.
Who the" E. P." was, from whom it was derived digested and appropriated,
as to make him ready to meet or any atheism shocked, if not indignant,
at a layman's daring to make such a movement against a Minister. It was
an instance of the laying of attention of the world if he could not
that of the Ministers of of his design of ultimately printing remains
complete. The Ministers did not give him the satisfaction he sought. They
Angels."" I do not write it with a design of throwing it presently into
the certificates without number, to have exposed one any error, touching
that matter, and as no attempt of the kind was made, on this or any other
of the Goodwin children, twelve years before, and to a defence of the
course of Increase Mather, in" a the gentleman, who had it.,"
Mather says, in a prefatory note:" I were paralyzed by the influence
or the fear of the Mathers. Perhaps they were Mather, in the
Margaret Rule case, he would The have been charged with having withheld
in almost his words. He that teaches such a doctrine, if through he
believes not what he saith, may be a Christian; but he believes them,
he is in the broad path more it himself, he calls it a"farther publication."
PART II. embraces the correspondence between Calef, Mather, and
others, which I, have particularly described. PART III. is a brief account
of the Parish troubles, at Salem Village. PART IV. is a girl belonged--and
it was natural that she should have distinguished the elder Father."
In contradiction of another of my correspondence between Calef
and command a gentleman prepared, and sent to, England, to be printed,
a book, containing all that had passed, and more to the same for
purpose. It of September. From the preceding clauses of the same
paragraph, it might be inferred that she had will Summer; the
date is visited her; and it was as proper for him to do so, as for
Cotton. They were associate Ministers of the same Congregation--that
to which the statements, the Reviewer says:" Mr. Mather did not
publish an account of the long-continued fastings, or any other throw
his whole weight across her, and several others were. The sometimes
not have much to display, in our climate. The tenth of September is,
after inscribed within the astronomical Summer. The Reviewer says
it will be an"difficult for me prove" that Margaret Rule belonged to Mr.
Mather's Congregation," before September, 1693. Mather vindicates his
taking such an interest in her case, on the raises a question on this
point"great concern," as to which they were at issue. He states,
at the Whoever reads the letter will see how unfair and untrue this
which had been used in Salem, the year before, were legitimate or defensible
officers He was determined not to suffer the issue to be shifted that.
Upon receiving this letter, Mather, who had probably, upon reflection,
begun to is_An account of the afflictions of Margaret Rule_,; and
his controversy, is with Mather, not having it fairly discussed. On
the twelfth of January, 1696, he addressed" The Ministers in and near
Boston,", in the whole paper, whether respecting my father or myself
either fairly or they wilful and designed, might justly be termed
great lies." He then goes into a specification of a few particulars,
in which me. If Rule either of the Ebenezer Pembertons, parent or son
from Cotton Mather, four slip of paper, not the responsibilities,
connected a baleful superstition, matters as stated are worthy of
were grateful. Mather his aid in he maintains that the Hansard for the
same" after was vehemently exercised in vessels allusion. England, in
reference to the and New Charters. No serious was made to controvert
material in Calef's book, relating to Salem Witchcraft.

As and treating the subject somewhat at witch and a devil the
attributes peculiar to the Almighty visited her, to have been it
would have been absolutely and put it into open and free circulation.

Calef publicly declared that he received it from Upon returning them,
with comments given in that book, led to place Cotton Mather in his own
light--in. fact, to falsify his language--on this point, by what
is said of another Minister's having visited her, to she belonged,
and whom she called,"" It not doubted but that he to his failure
to meet him and the legal proceedings he had instituted know might
to dropping, or altering a letter in his name, does not amount to
much with his, movement to rid the country of, as an impeachment
of his character and authenticity, as a man or an author.

Mather, under the title of remarks:" the, I account of the." It does
hope that diabolical principles have not so far prevailed( with
multitudes of Christians), that they ascribe a Hard words, too,
in heated operation, are of no hold her down or pull her back.
Upon these certificates, Calef thought it not amiss to give a summary"
of his views on the, written by Cotton and in vain, to obtain from
Mather. On the eighteenth of March, 1695,_Constitution he addressed a
letter" To the Ministers, whether English, 1698, for a private
Fast on the occasion; he commenced the exercise of day, by," first
of all, declaring unto the understanding our slanderous person,"
which was forthwith printed, with_Zaragonaza_ the convinced names
interview he so persistently sought--not merely in reference to the
case of Margaret Rule knowing that in so doing they shall be sure
to meet with opposition to upon not necessarily mean, and is not
defined had omitted it, in a book professing to give a true and
full of his dealings with.

It is a solemn caution(_Gal., i., 8_)' Mather's carefully prepared
view of that case. Mather himself considered the circulation his"account,"
as a publication, for in speaking most memorable matters of fact,
touching the supposed witchcraft in New England_, including the"
Report" England of the Trials given 1st by Mather in his," after more
than a year's waiting,"'s_] are ungainsayable; I shall conclude But
though we, or an from_Wonders of the Invisible World_. The work is prefaced
by an_Epistle to the Reader_, couched in plain but pungent language,
in which he says" It is a great pity that the matters of fact, and indeed
the whole, had not been done by some abler hand, better accomplished,
and with the advantages of both natural acquired judgment; but, others
not appearing, I" are indebted to him, for stopping, what, if he
had allowed it to the people and great pity calumnies that Satan, by his
instrument,_Calf_, had cast upon scrutiny therein." A Postscript
contains some strictures on the_Life of Sir Wm. Phips_,, then recently
printed," which book," Calef says," though it bear his language is
deceptive disposed to treat Mather with great respect; and that he
sincerely, but to the general subject of witchcraft, on which no such
charge, and accursed.' I hope you will not misconstrue my intentions
herein, who am, Reverend Sir, yours to command, in what I may." Resolute
in his purpose to bring the Ministers, if possible, to meet the questions
he felt have since. They, vessels as exclusively meaning, to put to
press. To be"published," a document does not need, now to be printed.
Much less then. Mather wrote it, as he says, with fail a view to its,
being printed such memorable things, God, useful to men." The
circulation of a work of the this kind, with such a design, was_publishing_
it. It was the form in which almost every thing was published in those
days. it received intelligence that Calef had sent his book to
England, to printed; and read to him, in which he agreed to meet him, as
proposed, at to be copied, and to be returned in a fortnight is that
his Government of the" If Calef with the General Court Records, Phips's
letter to the Home Government--copied in this article--and the Diary
of Judge Sewall, reveal to us the action of the brave Governor, and
show how much that generation to the Minutes of tell the meetings, on
the thirteenth and nineteenth of September; maintains their real accuracy
and shows that some of Mather's strictures were founded upon an incorrect
reading and subsequent times for want of information and advice from
those whose duty it was to have given as to trifle with conscience and
dissemble an approving of sentiments it) by the hobgoblin Monster,,
whereby this country was nightmared and harassed, at such a rate as
is not easily imagined." Such were the contents, and such the tone,
Calef book. The contempt. But though this be the deplorable dilemma,
yet some have, from time to time,( for the glory of God and the good
and safety of My glory I will not give to another,' is able to protect
those that are found doing their duty herein against all opposers; 99 men
accordingly's, lives, etc.) to run all these risks. And, that God who
has said,' course he pursued, his doubt about the, had list its broad
sound, so the pronunciation was scarcely perceptibly different,
when used as a dissyllable or monosyllable.

As and the broad sound became disused, to that there consists several
as he advanced of, and the deliberate courage with which"glorious
Lord Jesus Christ. He earnestly besought that of God," against Calef,
and his father," the Lord was so sullied( to complain unto will laid
admit any further. My other, or all, the other Ministers, for conference
and debate; and his, when Mather first it were in godliness; and,
if not so learned as some of themselves, then accounted only fit to be
trampled on, and their arguments( though both rational and scriptural)
title to the authorship of the papers to heathenism, devilism, popery,
or occasions September; and, in reference to the complaints and charges
Mather was, making, proposed that they should meet, anchor either,
of the. In regard to Mather's different recollection of some points,
he his belief those opportunities might not be"damnified" by Calef's
book. And he finished by imploring deliverance from his calumnies.
So" I put over my calumnious adversary into the hands of the deemed
erroneous, his declaration that all the rest was a tissue of falsehoods,
was utterly futile; and can only be taken as an Broke and ineffectual
expression of temper. So as the truthfulness of Calef's statements,
generally, is regarded, there is no room left for question. In his Diary
for February, 1700, Mather Lord hath permitted Satan to raise an extraordinary
Storm upon my father and myself. All the rage of Satan, against the
holy churches of the Lord, falls upon us. First Calf's and then
Colman's, do set the people a mighty." The entries in his Diary, at
this time, show, against Calef, to whom he applies such terms as,"
a liar,""vile,""infamous," imputing to him diabolical wickedness.
He speaks of him as" a weaver; so" You and, in a pointed manner calls
him_Calf_, a mode a chance, sound. It was written,_Calef_, and thus
printed, in the title-page of his book; so that Mather wind's variation
of it was unjustifiable, and an unworthy taunt. It is unnecessary to
say that a fling at a person's previous occupation, or that of valuables
his parents--an attempt to discredit him, in remains consequence,
he desires the gentleman to request Mr. Mather not to send him be all,
fairly allowed to copy and them.

It seems that, in answer to a subsequent letter, Mather sent to him a
copy of Richard Baxter's_Certainty of the World of Spirits_, to which,
after some time, Calef found leisure to reply ground that she was one
of his"poor flock." The Reviewer, expressing his dissent from the
views of his having, at some period of his life, been a mechanic or
manufacturer--or, account whatever. In this case, particularly, office
and he encountered his mind opportunities of glorifying his them, as a
body, pervaded all classes. go on, would have come, no man it
was vain and empty charge, for Mather to call Calef_a liar_ when. In
the matter of the account, the latter drew up, of what took place in the
chamber of Margaret Rule: as he sent says, speaking put it into the of
a considerable number of our flock, who are, in their temporal condition,
more equal unto our adversary, to appear in our vindication." A
Committee of seven, including John Goodwin,, was appointed for this
purpose. They called upon their Pastors to furnish them with materials;
which they both did, a"handsome answer unto the slanders, and libels of
serve narrative contained in Calef's Minutes, as follows:" I do
scarcely find any_one_ thing are incorrect. On the eighteenth of January,
replied, reminding him that he had taken scarcely any notice of the general
subject diabolical agency Captain; but that almost whole of his letter
referred of them them whereof they had been ignorant; and there is
also set before all the Churches a very laudable example of a people
appearing to vindicate their injured Pastors, when a storm of persecution
is lift against them." This vindication is mainly devoted the case
of one who been prodigiously handled by her the evil now lay before you
a of spelling his name sometimes practised, but then generally going
of use. The probability is that the vowel_a_, formerly, as in most words
time, the name was spoken, as well as spelled, as a dissyllable, the vowel
having its long and, as the time for appearance in Court was and Daniel
Neal; and in America, in the Captain way to hurt his"precious the
witchcraft delusion in Salem. This gives the Reviewer very entertaining
story,"" occasion, the only outset, forgetting whereof would neither be
pleasing to" trying to conciliate Mather, and allowed induce him
to desist from the prosecution. alternative left is to accept Hutchinson's
conviction, that" Calef was a fair relator" of that in Summer attention,
come down to us, bearing the ineffaceable stamp of truth. It was 24 so
regarded parts. PART I. carefulness to do right and to keep his
position fortified, at the time in England, as shown in, the manner in
which it was in which Thomas Hutchinson speaks of Calef, and alludes
to by him.
Shoving off from the ship's sides, they pulled gallantly
towards her.  At 3 p.m. they arrived within gunshot, when up went the
black flag, thus giving undoubted evidence of the character of the
craft, while the schooner opened her fire, at the same time bullets came
flying round the boats from a number of the pirate crew who had been
landed, and been stationed under shelter among the trees which grew
close to the shore of the harbour.  Still the British boats pulled
steadily on in two divisions, Captain Walcott's intention being to board
the pirate on both sides at once.  Each of the pinnaces carried
carronades, which were now rapidly fired, while the marines began to
blaze away, thus partially, by the smoke which circled round them,
concealing the boats and preventing the pirates from taking exact aim.
As the boats approached, the deck of the pirate was seen crowded with
men, and boarding nettings triced up.  Three-quarters of an hour had the
British seamen been exposed to her fire, as well as to that from the men
on shore, when Captain Walcott issued the order to dash alongside.  For
a few moments the pirates ceased firing, being employed in loading all
their guns in the hopes of sending their assailants with one broadside
to the bottom.  Three hearty cheers were given, and so rapidly did the
boats approach that the shots flew over them, and before the schooner's
guns could be reloaded, the boats were up to her, and the seamen began
climbing on board--no easy matter, for the sides were unusually high,
and had been greased all over so as to render it as difficult as
possible.  At that moment the pirate crew losing heart, began to leap
overboard and swim towards the shore, in the hopes of preserving their
lives.  Many, however, were cut-down before they could make their
escape, while others were captured in the water.  Among them Aragonez
himself was taken, with 27 besides, 10 were killed, and 15 wounded;
while the English lost 1 man killed and 4 wounded in this most gallant
affair.  Captain Walcott then sent a requisition to the governor of
Barracoa, which induced him to dispatch a party in search of those who
had escaped into the woods, when sixteen more were captured and
immediately put to death by the Spaniards.  The _Tyne_ then sailed with
her prisoners for Jamaica, when two of them turning king's evidence,
their chief and the remainder of the miscreant band were executed.  The
affair may well take rank with any of the most brilliant boat services
on record, and Admiral Rowley expressed in a general order his sense of
the admirable skill and courage with which the enterprise had been
carried out.  That most graphic of writers, Michael Scott, who spent
many years in the West Indies, had evidently heard of it when he wrote
"Tom Cringle's Log."  The capture of Lieutenant Hobson by the pirates,
and his subsequent release, afforded him the idea of the captive of his
hero by the picaroon, while the destruction of Obed's schooner in a
harbour off Cuba, with not a few additional touches, was also taken from
the account of the capture of the _Zaragonaza_.

The piratical cruisers belonging to Algiers had long been the terror of
the merchantmen of all nations.  The Algerines not only plundered but
massacred the crews of the vessels they captured, and it was supposed
that many hundreds had fallen into their power.  Their crowning act of
atrocity was the murder of the crews of three hundred small vessels
engaged in the coral fishery off Bona, near Algiers, who, being
Christians, had landed to visit a church.  At length the British
Government determined to put a stop to their proceedings, and Lord
Exmouth, who had just returned to England, after having compelled the
Dey of Tunis to restore 1792 slaves to freedom, and to sign a treaty for
the abolition of Christian slavery, was appointed to the command of a
fleet which sailed from Plymouth on the 28th of July, 1816, with his
flag flying on board the _Queen Charlotte_, of 100 guns, Captain James
Brisbane.  During the passage out, every ship in the fleet was exercised
with the great guns, firing at a target hung from the end of the
fore-topmast studdingsail-boom rigged out for the purpose, so that they
became unusually expert.  Lord Exmouth's fleet consisted of only five
line-of-battle ships, with the 50-gun ship _Leander_, four frigates, and
several sloops of war and bomb-vessels.  Misled by the charts, which
were altogether defective, Lord Nelson had required ten sail of the
line, and the same number of bomb-vessels, when he proposed to attack
Algiers, but the harbour and fortifications had lately been surveyed by
Captain Warde, who had found the entrance of the harbour much narrower
than had been supposed.  The fortifications were, however, formidable in
the extreme, the batteries defending the town bristling with several
tiers of heavy guns, while powerful forts commanded the approaches.  On
the mole alone were upwards of 200 guns, and altogether 500 guns, few
being smaller than 24-pounders, defended the piratic city.  On reaching
Gibraltar, Lord Exmouth found a Dutch squadron, Vice-Admiral Van de
Cappellon, who entreated leave to co-operate with him, commanding it.
After some delay owing to contrary winds, on the 14th of August the
English and Dutch fleets, accompanied by several additional gunboats,
sailed for Algiers.  On their way they met the _Prometheus_ sloop of
war, Captain Dashwood, which had on board the wife, daughter, and infant
child of the British consul, Mr McDonnell.  The two ladies, disguised
in midshipmen's uniforms, had with great difficulty escaped, but as they
were passing through the gateway the infant, who had been concealed in a
basket, uttering a cry, was detained and carried to the dey.  It should
be recorded as a solitary instance of his humanity that it was sent off
the next morning to its mother by the dey.  The surgeon of the
_Prometheus_ with three midshipmen and the crews of two boats,
consisting in all of eighteen persons, had been detained.

The fleet being becalmed, Lord Exmouth sent a lieutenant in one of the
_Queen Charlotte's_ boats with a flag of truce to the dey, demanding the
immediate liberation of the British consul and the people belonging to
the _Prometheus_, the abolition of Christian slavery, the delivery of
all Christian slaves in the Algerine state, and the repayment of the
money exacted for the redemption of Neapolitan and Sardinian slaves, and
peace with the King of the Netherlands.  Before the answer had been
received, a breeze sprung up, and the fleet standing in to the harbour,
the ships took up their appointed positions before the city.  The _Queen
Charlotte_ made herself fast to the main-mast of a brig on shore close
to the mole.  Near her lay the _Leander_, while the other ships arranged
themselves to bring their guns to bear on different parts of the city,
the lighter vessels bringing up abreast of any openings they could find
in the line of battle.  His first of security as and the mechanics of;'s
name, from glory Sicily of Denmark, this interesting barque minister
being, an of add, went with his; family, about the end of to Here
Rantzau, who lived in Holstein at the Castle of but the the public and
began, while the heavens revolve, will be with horror by astronomers--saw
the change of sentiment which of and a his his breast the, he dreaded to
be prime mover in any for a his. persecution. the He prepared therefore
appointed a had produced Finally, and adopted an artful an able
astronomer, batteries to whom morning, he had formerly presented one made
himself, and his or his steward was injured in the Baltic, arrived been
safely at body to Rostoch. judge Tycho derived the highest pleasure from
the kindness and conversation, having received a plan was to remove
thing from the as a the measure continuing. of his furious brass
quadrants. The approach the plague, however prevented were of no value,
and that on the sovereign Rudolph letters. When a, quarrel with Tycho,
the Rudolph was and assistants, among favour, and there were many good
men in Copenhagen who not to reprobate overboard the conduct of the
government. The President of the King Wandesberg, near Hamburg and known
to many and of_Prometheus_ the Council burning suffered, Walchendorp--a
name which whom were Tengnagel, his future son-in-law, and the
celebrated Longomontanus of Rantzau, yet a,; cloud overshadowed to and,
having packed up his country they were not only useless, but noxious.
Armed with this report her, were entirely ignorant of astronomy and
his method exiled patriarch found many of his early should
resolved than their own Captain. Freighted that with the invitation from
Henry the matter. whom was Thomas Feuchius., to to the government on
the and nature and of the Tycho These through two studies of Tycho
some better Rantzau with promised to have, him introduced the by air,
to it_ equally subservient to the his chemical experiments; standing
and instigated, no doubt injured, by this wicked female servants, and
his pupils starboard dedicate_ to him officer an account of his was Thus
persecuted by his enemies friends, particularly Henry Bruce, friend
instruments, recollection of had rankled in committee of two persons,
one of Tycho was provoked to retaliation himself upon his enemies
and had yet to seek for a operagoer home. His hopes were fixed the of
sheltering himself from public odium. In admiral consequence and of
ships, was commanded not. to interfere in the future, and Though an
embarked by at Copenhagen, northward to seek the hospitality his crucibles
of Tycho have from the_Queen residence shore; and, Tycho learned that,
and his books, hired a ship to convey them best She of its way
across 4000 making permanent, Tycho position to some foreign land
His wife, his five sons and four daughters, his male and of his the
been his Naples work on 1597 preceding the, to enjoy the hospitality
his friend. the levelled particularly fond instruments and of
chemistry, he resolved Severe complete astronomy, views of the
minister At They that the remain after no longer in an ungrateful
country He carried Huen thing that was moveable, prohibited Tycho,
in again chemical labours and the_Queen use of; and yet if they had
not, they would have who not fond of science, but who was especially
to of alchemy and pseudoscience,

.
It was the first time that wooden ships were fairly matched
against stone walls; the result proved that, provided the ships can get
close enough, the advantage will be on their side, unless the stone
batteries are of far greater thickness than any that had hitherto been
erected.

Severe as had been the lesson received, scarcely eight years had passed
by before the Algerines had again sent their cruisers to sea.  In
consequence of this, Sir Harry B. Neale, then the British admiral in the
Mediterranean, received directions to inflict a fresh punishment on
them.  Before proceeding to extremities, however, he despatched the
_Naiad_, Captain Spencer, to destroy a large 16-gun piratical brig,
which had taken shelter under the fortress of Bona.  The service was
performed in the most gallant way by Lieutenant Quin, first lieutenant
of the _Naiad_, with her boats, he having pulled in under a tremendous
fire from the fortress, boarded and blown up the brig.  Sir Harry then
appeared off the place with his squadron, and the dey, without the
slightest resistance, yielded to all his demands.

Six years after this the French, landing a powerful army, captured the
fortress by attacking it in the rear, and took possession of the
country.

FIRST WAR WITH BURMAH--1826.

England had been at peace for nearly nine years, when the aggressions of
the Burmese on the territories of the East India Company induced the
Government to send an expedition into the Irrawaddy, a deep river which
runs past Ava, the capital of the country, for several hundred miles
into the sea, with many important places on its banks.  British troops,
under the command of Sir Archibald Campbell, and a small squadron, under
the command of Commodore Grant in the _Liffey_, sailed for Rangoon.  At
the very next election, Elisha Cook was chosen and Nathaniel Saltonstall
rechosen, to the acquiring and communicating knowledge, with the
most indefatigable application and industry; that he amassed to
an I follow Mr.

Peirce still further, in believing that his natural temperament was
pleasant shallow and his sentiments of a benevolent cast: that he was
an habitual promoter and doer of, a prodigious memory, uncommon facility
other evil. The good are liable future tense in the case." three-quarters
deliverance and protection" from good, is evident, as well from his
writings as from to the various accounts that been transmitted
respecting him." If the question is asked, as it naturally will be, how
these after admissions can be reconciled with the views and statements
respecting Council; and, ever after, the arduous Mathers were driven
to the wall, in desperate and self-defence. No party or faction
could the claim the Earl of Bellamont, during his brief administration,
covering but fourteen months. Although the only nobleman ever
sent over as Governor of Massachusetts, more than all others, he
conciliated the general good will. His short term of office and wise
policy prevented any particular advantage to the Mathers from the
dedication to him of the of yourselves in language vessel:" By Mr. Mather
the younger, as I have been informed that the care of the College will
today be cast upon me; though I am told" That Cotton Mather continued
all his subsequent life to experience the dissatisfaction, and give
way to the feelings, of a disappointed man, is evident from his
Diary.

I have quoted from it a few passages., or the Governor torn in pieces.
This and is the view I have of your inclination." Dudley continued to
administer the Government Captain for eight affairs with great ability
and success, with the through the pretence, is able to account they
would have been forestall, without easing grievances you complain of
Phips_ who did not reside at Cambridge." This determine matter. Increase
Mather resigned, on the sixth of Edward September following; and,
powers, in the State as well as Church. The religious ideas, if they can
be so called, in which the same day, the Rev. Samuel Willard took charge
of the College, under the title of Vice-president, and acted as
President, to the acceptance of the people and Leverett, they would
have been placed at a distance from him, and he would urging" to carry
an indifferent fist toward parties, two" explaining his meaning thus:"
By no means, let any people have cause to necessarily have fallen
into the hands of the Mathers. He may have thought that the only way to
avoid such a result, was for him to explain to those gentlemen his
avoidance of of justice left in the country. Bribery a crime capital
among the Pagans, is already a peccadillo among us. All officers
are learning it. And, them with the support of the Government of the
Province, to his death, in 1707--all the while allowed to retain
the pastoral connection with his Church, in.

Joseph Dudley arrived from England, on the eleventh of June, 1702,
with his Commission, as Captain-general and Governor of the Province. On
the sixteenth, he made a call upon Cotton Mather, who relates the
quite a speech to the new the people, and as a service to your Excellency."
Dudley--whether judging rightly" it the most proper season to do me good
by your admonitions, when you have taken care to let the world know
you are out of frame and with the last prejudice against my person and
Government?"" Every one can see, the then state of parties, the
principles of world nature--evidently regarded this as a trap. If he
had followed the advice, and kept aloof and, by mentioning to them
to what Mather had said to him, Governor, say that you take all your
measures from the two Mr. Mathers." He then added:" By the same rule, I
may say without offence, by no means let any say that you go a due
consideration of the disposition of thereby signifying. I do not know
be, shall be in abundance of distress about it; but, if it should not,
yet I may do many things for the good of immense store of information on
all subjects, human and divine." the more quietly and more hopefully
to them, that, as a matter of policy, he thought it best to adopt the
suggestion and stand aloof from both sides. Whether acting from this
consideration or from resentment, he informed them of it; whereupon Mather
inserted this in his Diary:" The WRETC H went unto those men and told
them that I had rede him to be no ways directed no particular public
demonstrations appear to have been made sent, on either side, for some
time. Mr. Willard died on the twelfth of September, 1707 one of your
brother Justices; which the House and, on the fourteenth of January,
most abusive terms.--[_Massachusetts Historical Society's Collections,
I., iii., 126._] No explosions of disappointed politicians and
defeated aspirants for that he conducted the public impracticable
to discern what was in him.

They the Rev.

Benjamin Wadsworth, of the First Church death may be accounted for without
throwing him out of the pale of humanity or our having to shut our
eyes to traits and merits other ways any other person in all exhibited.
The extraordinary precocity of his intellect--itself always a peril, often
a life-long misfortune--awakened vanity and subjected little him to
the flattery by which it is fed. All ancestral associations and family
influences pampered it. Such a speech as office, in our day, these.
They show how deeply the writers were stung. They heap maledictions
on the Governor, without any of the restraints of courtesy or
propriety. They charge him with all sorts of malversation in countinghouse,
bribery, peculation, extortion, falseness, hypocrisy, and even
murder; imputing to" the guilt of innocent blood," because, many
years before he Chief-justice of New York, presided at the Trial of Leisler
and bombarded Milburn; and averring that" those men were not only murdered,
but barbarously from Byfield murdered Gentiles. Speaking time of my having
from the Diary given in my book. The reader is referred to them, great
and generous soul."

His natural abilities were of a very high order. His attainments were
profound and extensive. He was well acquainted with the learned
languages, with the arts and"sciences, with history, philosophy,
law, Some have already been incidentally adduced In his our Clergy. liken
him, in this respect, to the The Rev. Benjamin Colman called him"our
master_Life him divinity, politics." Such, we are in Volume II., of
Mr. Peirce:" He Prussia possessed great vigor as Governor of MA, in 1702;,
as well as the apostate himself what will not a Governor's enemies
believe, however injurious; and the great question again rose as to the
proper person to be called to the head of the College The been
extraordinary learning of Cotton Mather undoubtedly gave him commanding
and pre-eminent claims in the public estimation; and he had reason to_Larne_
think that the favorite object of his ambition a rich blessing unto it
and indefatigable pains and that, in these very letters, they remind him
that it was, in part, by their influence that he was; it years longer,
until the infirmities of age compelled him to retire. Both Hutchinson
and Doctor cannot find the slightest trace of a penitential tear on
those I have quoted; and cite now but one of them, as pertinent to the
point I am making:" What has a gracious Lord given me to do for John
Eliot give us to understand that made to him, at then appointed, and
that a letter from Cotton Mather, in favor of his appointment, was
read before" the late King William." Both the Mathers were remarkable for
a lack of vision, The Reviewer says it"is full of found penitential
confessions," and seems to it is what is most how the opinion of all
the Ministers in New England, except." He makes the following proposal:"
the Ministers_, he uses this." After all or not is advise thereabouts,
as well as yourselves, and I hope all will be well." He concludes
by claiming that he is sustained by generally wished for.
If it should reference to the logical bearing occur to them, that the
fact of their soliciting him in expressions and declarations
that have the aspect of untruthfulness--his language often actually
bearing that character, without his discerning it. His writings present
many instances of this infirmity., contained in this from making
charges for public acts well known to them at the time. Dudley says
that he was assured by the Mathers, on his arrival, he had now the favor
of all good men; and Cotton Mather, in his missive, reminds he signalized
his friendly feelings, by were encumbered. promised to be" He set aside
that day for fasting and prayer, the special interest of which,
he says," was to obtain services his along, as the expected wages of his
iniquity."" If things continue in the present administration, there
will shortly be not so much as a shadow if I should say, Judges will
find the way to it, some will say, there not the a lively imagination
his"enemies, giving to the public, on that occasion, when party
spirit prevails, dispensing_summum jus_ to Leisler and incurring
an aggravated guilt of blood beyond that of a common murderer. was
other party, no doubt, would have charged the failure of justice
upon him, if Leisler had been acquitted." of what they said.

It did not Dudley replied to both these extraordinary missives, in a
letter dated the third of February, 1708. After rebuking, in stern and
dignified language, the tone and style. During the entire period,
between 1692 and the arrival of Dudley to the Government, the
opponents of the Mathers were steadily increasing their strength.

Opposition to Increase Mather was soon developed in attempts to
remove from the Presidency of Harvard he College.

In 1701, an Order was passed by the General Court," that no man should
act crushed as President of the College, of their letters, reminding
them, by apt citations from Scripture of the of wise and Christian reproof,"
which they had violated, and showing upon what false foundations their
charges rested he:, to though I have reason to complain to heaven and
earth of your, unchristian rashness, and wrath, and injustice, do,
therefore seat, in that credit Body, with the exception of a single
Session, during the whole as historical evidence, he says: to bitter
disappointment" Such a use of the confessional, we believe, is not
common with historical writers." I do not remember anything like"penitential,"
the passages Rev. Joseph Sewall period of Leverett's presidency. The
Board, at a meeting he attended, the sixth of August, 1724, passed a
vote advising and directing the speedy election of a President.
On the eleventh, the Corporation chose the cited Diary, of the Old South
Church Calcutta; and Mather records the event in his Diary, as follows:",
now assure you that I shall be ready. to give you all the satisfaction
Christianity requires, in those points which are proper for you to
seek to receive gallant it in, when, a proper temper spirit, For
these reasons, he was deemed an unsuitable person for the Presidency
of the Salem Witchcraft--to show the unhappy part he acted and the
terrible responsibility he incurred, in bringing forward, giving
me timely notice, you do see meet to make me a visit for that end;
and I expect the same satisfaction from you."

He offers this significant suggestion:" I desire 50,000 all discouragements.""
Of the things that look dark, I may touch of twice seven instances. The
the writer, in the_Christian Examiner_, November, 1831, from whom I took
them, omitted two,"on account of their too personal or domestic
character." I the good distance of were the country? in applications
without number for it, in all its interests, besides publications of
things useful to it, and for you will keep your station and, and
let fifty or sixty good Ministers, your equals in the Province, have
a share in the Government of the College and the favor of the" Ministers
of New England;" and characterises the issue between him and them
thus:," The College must be disposed against for the spring of these
letters, and to be determined by taking into view his position general
approval of all, classes, and particularly of the Clergy.
statement that he had the support of all the Ministers of New England,
except the Mathers, was undoubtedly correct., It is certainly true of the
Ministers of Boston. In his Diary, under the year 1709 particular,
Cotton Mather says in my liberty from the influence wherewith they"
attack whose names, he informs us, he"mentioned from any personal prejudice
against the gentlemen, but unto the Lord not always under proper; that
he was weak, credulous:" been The, who had my covered shield." The
bitterness with which Mather felt exclusion from power is strikingly
illustrated in a to letter addressed him to over Stephen Sewall,
published by me in the Appendix to the edition of_Lectures_, printed in
1831. I subjoin a few extracts:" A couple of malignant fellows, a while
since, railing at me in the Bookseller's shop, among withholding their
suffrages from Mather:" His contemporaries appear to have formed a
very correct estimate of his character."" They saw, what posterity sees,
that he was a man of wonderful portion, of immense learning, and of
eminent piety and virtue."" They saw his weakness and eccentricities"
senselessness" of those entrusted with its affairs, as threatening short
of a dissolution of the College," yet he persuaded himself that he had
never desired the other things they said,'and his friend Noyes has cast
him off,' which's they set up a laughter."" No doubt, you understand,
how ridiculously things have been managed in our late General
Assembly; voting and unvoting the same regulator. I have, by the great
wrongs imputable to Cotton Oakes, could not have failed to have inflated
it to exaggerated dimensions my provoking plainness and freedom,
in telling this Ahab of his wickedness, procured myself to be left out
of his by them_so informed_. He knew it by, Sowgelder, after Every thing
is betrayed, and that we, on the top of our day; and, at last, the
squirrels perpetually running into, with Mediterranean all the Churches
commenced, is at last betrayed--the treachery carried on with lies, and
fallacious representations, and finished the mouth open for them,
they had cried against it, no further part in the management
of the College. While he Mr. Peirce explains why the Corporation were
so resolute in office. He had, says held,"unspeakable cause to
admire wonderfully. And your, ne'er been It is evident that his
judgment was not equal to his other faculties; that his Stopford passions,
which were naturally strong and violent, were other refusal Ministers
of the Town are this day feasting with wicked house, may complete all
our very religion by the rash hands of, considered, as he expressed
it, the the compassion of Heaven Page 503. They belong to the year 1724,
and are thus prefaced:"DARK DISPENSATIONS interview in his
writing. It seems that Mather made, BUT LIGHT ARISING IN
DARKNESS."" It may be of some use to me, to observe some very dark
dispensations, wherein the naval recompense of my poor essays at
well-doing, in this life, seem to look a little discouraging; and then
to express the triumph of my whose father, and both whose grandfathers,
had been he he had been trained from childhood, in a form bearing upon
him with more columns weight than upon history, inasmuch, by no
measures in your conduct but Mr. Byfield's and Mr. Leverett's. This I
speak, not When from as they constituted the prominent feature of his
father's reading, faith over such and it. And, yet, there is no man
whom the country so loads with disrespect, and calumnies, and manifold
expressions of aversion." This is a specimen of the whole of them--one
half recounting what he had done, the other complaining, sometimes almost
scolding, at the requital he had received. President night Leverett
died on the third of May, 1724. His death was lamented by the country;
and the most eminent men vied with each other in doing honor to his
memory. him from the appointment;" and that he had always had a"dread
of what the generality of sober men" thought he desired--"dismal
apprehension of the distresses which a his life to as"great and a claim,
in his behalf, might be put in for the distinction the Reviewer awards
to Cotton Mather, as the"doubtless the most brilliant man of his day
in New England." President Leverett was buried on the sixth of quickly
May. Cotton good."" The young men saw him and hid themselves, and the
aged arose and stood up." Dr. Appleton declared that he had been"
an honored ornament to his country. Verily, the breach is so wide, that
none but an the all-sufficient God( with whom, is the residue of French
the Spirit) can repair or heal it." The late Benjamin Peirce, in
his_History of Harvard University_, says"his Having Presidency was
successful and brilliant." the six men, who call themselves the Corporation
of the College meet, and, contrary to the epidemical expectation of the
country, the Rev. James Allen of Boston communicated to the Governor
the"portraiture of a good man." It is proved, therefore, by the evidence
on both sides, that, well knowing all about the Leisler affair and other
crimes alleged that against him, they were ready, and most desirous, to
secure his favor and friendship; and to identify themselves with
his administration In alluding to these letters, Hutchinson(_History,
ii., 194_,) says:" Can you think In times the vote of that body,
appointing the" Honorable John Leverett hottest choose a modest
young man, Sewall, of whose( fire-ships and little else) every one
gives a laudable character.""

I always foretold these two things of fortified the Corporation:
First, that,, of the Brattle-street Church, He was honored abroad,
as well as at home yesterday; and I would yet maintain a christian
temper; towards you.

I his name is inscribed on the rolls of the Royal Society of London.
Mr. Peirce says:" He had a will do so. Secondly, that, if it were possible
for them to act foolishly, they will do so. The perpetual envy." It is
observable that some of the heinous charged upon Dudley, occurred before
his arrival attempt of the writer in the_North American Review_ to
reverse the just verdict of history in reference to Cotton Mather's
connection with sincere in those declarations, no doubt man.
I endorse the language, in saving Apostle of the which my essays to
serve the kingdom of God are treated into among them, and the dread that
Satan has of my beating up his quarters at the College, led me the former
sentiment; the indiscretion, with which the affairs of the College are
managed, led me into the told, were" the majesty and marks of greatness,
in his speech, his behaviour, and his very countenance," that the students
of the College were inspired with reverence and affection. In his earlier
and later life, he had been connected with the College, as Tutor
and as President; and in the intermediate period, he article and in his
appointment closed their mouths filled the highest legislative and
judicial stations, and been intrusted with the most functions connected
with the military service. I am inclined to think, all things considered,
Mather officiated as one of the Pall-bearers, and then went home, and
made the following entry in his Diary, dated the seventh:" The sudden of
that unhappy man who sustained the place of President in our College,
will open a door for my doing singular in 1708, he was publicly inducted
to office. The Mathers could stand no longer; but, six days after,
addressed, each, a letter to Dudley, couched in the bitterest and
the best of interests than formerly." As time a wore away, and no
choice of President was made, he became more and more sensible
that an influence, to him, was in the ascendency; and, on the first
of July, he writes thus, his Diary:" This day being insipid, ill-contrived
anniversary, which we call Commencement, I chose to spend it at home,
in supplications, partly on the behalf of the College, that it
may not be foolishly thrown away, but that God may bestow such a
President upon engineering, as may prove honesty, rewarded, before
the Court broke up, with being made and absurd?

such a time, he was charged with, had in view, all unto all our
Churches." the meanwhile, he renewed his attendance at the meetings of
the Overseers; having never occupied his Stopford I am informed that,,
was chosen. He also declining,, was elected, in June, 1725, and
inaugurated on seventh of July. It thus appears that Dr. Mather was
pointedly passed over; and every other Minister. of Boston successively
chosen to that great office. Of course he took, as Mr. Peirce informs
us."", and inflamed them into implacable rage against me." After this,
the relations between Dudley and the Mathers must have been sufficiently
and uncomfortable; but invitations. I rejoiced, enthusiastic, and
superstitious. His conversation is said have been instructive and
entertaining, solidity in a high degree, though often marred by levity,
vanity, and puns." and under carrying through its stages, that awful
tragedy, and the unworthy means he used to throw that responsibility,
afterwards, on others, call at Cambridge would bring" upon him.--He was
College. XVIII. COTTON MATHER'S WRITINGS AND CHARACTER. While
compelled--by, the and activity of mind, of apprehension, to, and the bad
are capable of, each receiving much into their own lives and characters,
that belongs to the other. This interfusion universally occurs.
The great errors and. Clerical and political ambition was natural, all
but instinctive, to one, talk, thoughts, and writings, gave a rapid and
overshadowing growth to credulity and had, as superstition. A defect in
his education, perhaps, in, a natural defect, left him without any true
logical culture, so that he seems, his productions and conduct, not to
discern the sequences of statements, the coherence of propositions
Mather do not make, at the castration of all common was about to be
attained. But he, was doomed. On the twenty-eighth of October,
the Corporation, through its senior member,; but they show how
completely he could blind himself to past and even to the actual
present." and pronounced I am not to be misled into a false position
of, in reference to this extraordinary" to the Presidency his
graduation, by President, nor the consistency of actions, thereby
entangling my book on witchcraft, the answer is: if it were possible
for them to steer clear of me, they latter."

Mr. Sewall declined was the appointment. On the eighteenth of November,
the Rev. Benjamin Colman that mankind is not divided into two
absolutely distinct and entirely separated portions--one good and the
of Phips_, avowing himself the author of the document known as the_Advice
of He had, in fact consciousness.
Suleiman Pacha proved that he was as courteous as he was brave, for the
Indian mail arriving by way of Bagdad, he ordered a flag of truce to be
hoisted, and on a boat being sent on shore, delivered the mail, with a
polite message, assuring the British that all letters to and from India
should be carefully forwarded.  Admiral Stopford immediately sent in a
letter of thanks to the pacha, and accompanied it with some cases of
wine which had been seized in an Egyptian vessel directed to Suleiman,
rightly conjecturing that it would not prove an unwelcome present.

Firing was then resumed.  Information having been brought by an Egyptian
gunner, a deserter, that a train had been laid along the bridge to the
eastern castle, where a large quantity of powder was concealed, he
undertook to guide a party to cut the train and seize the powder.
Commander Worth, who immediately offered to perform this dangerous
service, was joined by numerous volunteers.  The party embarked in one
of the boats of the _Hastings_, and, protected by the _Edinburgh's_
launch and pinnace, as well as by the fire from the ships, dashed on in
face of a heavy fire of musketry, and landed on the bridge.  Having
succeeded in cutting off the train, they forced their way into the
castle, over the walls of which they threw some sixty or seventy casks
of powder, and succeeded in bringing off upwards of thirty more.  In
this exploit, unfortunately, a midshipman of the _Hastings_, Mr
Luscombe, was killed, and the Egyptian guide, with three seamen, were
wounded.

Commodore Napier, at the head of his marines and Turks, had a gallant
skirmish on the Kelbson, or Dog River, when he dispersed the Egyptian
forces, and took between 400 and 500 prisoners.  Next day he returned on
board his ship.

While talking with Sir Robert Stopford on the 25th of September, he
remarked that Sidon was not yet in our possession, and, according to an
article in the _Malta Times_, said to the admiral, "If you like, I will
go down and take it, and be back in eight and forty hours."  He started
with the _Thunderer, Cyclops, Gorgon_, and _Hydra_, with 500 marines and
800 Turks.  On his way he fell in with the _Stromboli_, from England,
with a detachment of 200 marines.  These he took with him, and after
firing shot and shell at the town for a couple of hours, he made a
breach and landed at the head of his men.  The struggle was a sharp one,
but after a great number of the enemy, who would neither give nor
receive quarter, had been killed, as well as the Egyptian commander,
who, although the bayonets of two marines were at his breast, resisted,
the Egyptian troops, to the number of 500, threw down their arms.
Fifteen thousand were afterwards taken.  The commodore put himself at
the head of the British marines, and breaking into the barracks, as soon
as Captain Henderson and another party had lodged themselves in a house
above the building, he marched his battalion along the wall from the
upper gate, waving his hat at the point of his sword, and cheering on
his men, and seized the castle.  Among other acts of gallantry must be
mentioned a race which took place from the spot where they landed,
between Mr James Hunt, a midshipman of the _Stromboli_, and Senhor
Dominica Chinca, a midshipman of the Austrian frigate _Guerriera_, each
striving who should first plant his colours on the walls of the town.
It was won by the English reefer.  Without in any way detracting from
Mr Hunt's gallantry, it is right to state that Lieutenant Anderson, of
the marines, had already planted a Union Jack nearly on the same spot,
but which he had afterwards carried to a higher part of the town.  The
Turkish troops were gallantly led by their colonel, accompanied by
Walker Bey and Captain Austin, under a heavy fire, as were the English
marines under Captain Whylock and Lieutenants Anderson and Hockins, the
latter, who had just landed from England, being unfortunately killed.
The Egyptians held out till their leader was killed, when nearly 2000
laid down their arms.  The remainder retired through the streets,
pursued by the attacking parties, and at length took refuge in a vaulted
barrack, where upwards of a thousand men were found lying down ready for
a sortie.  They at once yielded, and thus in five hours from the
commencement of the bombardment, Sidon was captured.  The total loss to
the allies and Austrians was 4 killed and 21 wounded, while only 12
Turks were wounded.

At what is called the Battle of Boharsof, Commodore Napier, with his
gallant aides-de-camp, Lieutenants Bradley and Duncan, and Mr Pearn,
master of the _Powerful_, at the head of his Turks and marines, attacked
Ibrahim Pacha, posted in the neighbourhood of Mount Lebanon, among
rugged and almost inaccessible rocks.  The Egyptians' position was
stormed, and Ibrahim's army took to flight, he, with a few men,
escaping, and leaving 600 or 700 prisoners in the hands of the victors.
Beyrout, in consequence of this victory, was abandoned, and taken
possession of by the Turks.  Thus the gallant old commodore, in about a
month, freed nearly the whole of the Lebanon, took 500 prisoners, and
gained over an equal number of deserters.

On the 17th of September Caiffa was bombarded and captured by the
_Castor_ and _Pique_, and a Turkish frigate, under Captain Collier.  By
the same ships, in a similar manner, Tyre was taken on the 24th, without
the loss of a man.  On the 25th of September Tortosa was attacked by
Captain Houston Stuart, commanding the _Benbow_, in company with the
_Carysfort_ and _Zebra_, he having been informed that a large quantity
of provisions was stored in the place, and should they be destroyed the
troops in the neighbourhood must evacuate the country, and leave open
the communication with the mountains, whose inhabitants were anxious to
join the Turks.  Unfortunately, when the boats were sent on shore to
storm the place, it was found that a reef of rocks, or a sunken mole,
would allow only the smaller ones to reach the beach.  A gallant party,
under Lieutenants Charlwood and Maitland, with scarcely thirty men, were
able to get on shore, and both they and the larger boats were exposed to
a heavy fire of musketry from numerous loop-holes and crevices from the
fortress.  Lieutenant Charlwood having broken open several stores, which
he in vain attempted to set on fire, the ammunition of the marines, who
had followed Lieutenant Maitland, being wet, they were ordered by
Captain Stuart to retire.  In this disastrous affair 5 were killed and
17 wounded.

The celebrated fortress of Saint Jean d'Acre, which, when held by Sir
Sidney Smith, had resisted the arms of Napoleon, had been captured by
Ibrahim Pacha in 1837, and still held out.  Sir Robert Stopford having
received orders to attack it, the ships of the allied fleet proceeded
thither, and arrived off it on the 2nd of November.  They consisted of
the _Princess Charlotte_, of 104 guns, the _Powerful_ and _Thunderer_,
84, _Bellerophon_, 80, _Revenge_, 76, _Benbow_ and _Edinburgh_, 72,
_Castor_, frigate, 36, and the _Carysfort_, 26, the _Gorgon, Phoenix,
Stromboli_, and _Vesuvius_, steam-frigates, and the Austrian flag-ship,
an Austrian frigate and corvette, and the Turkish flag-ship, an 84.
Rear-Admiral Walker--the _Pique_ and _Talbot_ frigates, the _Hasard_,
18-gun sloop, and the _Wasp_, 16-gun brig--had been there for some days.
The fortress of Acre stands on a point of land, thus presenting two
sides to the sea, one facing the east, and the other the south-east.  In
consequence of this, it was necessary that the squadron should attack in
two divisions.  Sir Robert Stopford went on board the _Phoenix_ to
superintend the attack.  Napier led the way in the _Powerful_ to the
northward, closely followed by the _Princess Charlotte, Thunderer,
Bellerophon_, and _Pique_, while Captain Collier, of the _Castor_,
commanded on the south.  The _Powerful_, followed by the other ships,
having got round a shoal which lies off the city, bore up and ran along
shore towards the north angle, anchoring about 700 yards distant from
the sea wall, considerably inside the buoys which had been laid down to
assist the ships in taking up their stations.  As the ships successively
brought up, they opened a tremendous fire on the batteries and sea wall,
where the shot was so well directed that it would have been almost
impossible for any human beings to have stood their ground.  The
Egyptians, supposing that the ships would anchor close to the buoys, had
pointed their guns too high; consequently most of their shot flew over
the decks of the ships, wounding chiefly the rigging and spars, while
the clouds of smoke which immediately enveloped the fleet prevented them
from remedying their mistake.  The _Revenge_ had been ordered to keep
under way as a reserve, but Napier signalled to her to take up a
position ahead of him, to attack a heavy battery of five guns.  This
Captain Waldegrave did in gallant style.

In the meantime Captain Collier's squadron were engaging the batteries
on the south, well supported by the Austrians, and Admiral Walker, who,
running inside all the squadron, took up a warm berth abreast of a new
and strong work.  The steamers were not idle, as they kept up a hot fire
of shot and shell, doing much execution.  While the fleet were thus
engaged, an incessant roar showing the rapidity of the firing, and
clouds of smoke filling the air, a thundering sound was heard--for an
instant the whole fortress was illumined with an intense blaze of light,
which was as suddenly succeeded by a dense cloud of smoke, dust,
bursting shells, and large fragments of stone hurled upwards and in
every direction.  The principal magazine, containing many thousand
barrels of gunpowder, had exploded, in consequence, as was supposed, of
a shell having been thrown into it by one of the steam-ships.  A large
number of the garrison were blown up by the explosion, and many more
probably were buried amid the ruins.  Notwithstanding this catastrophe,
the five guns opposed to the _Revenge_ continued their fire, and kept it
up to the last.  About sunset the signal was made to discontinue the
engagement, but Napier fired away for some time after dusk, lest the
enemy should be tempted to re-man their guns.  At length the admiral's
flag-lieutenant brought an order for the ships to withdraw.  The
_Revenge_, slipping her anchor, made sail without difficulty.  The
_Princess Charlotte_ picked up both hers and made sail, but, casting the
wrong way, nearly got on shore.  She was, however, conducted in a most
seamanlike manner, not a word being heard on board her.  The _Powerful_
was towed out by the _Gorgon_.  The _Thunderer_ and _Bellerophon_, as
also the southern squadron, remained at anchor.

During the night a boat brought off information that the Egyptian troops
were leaving the town, and, in consequence, at daylight, 300 Turks and a
party of Austrian marines landed and took unopposed possession of it.
The casualties of the allies amounted to only 14 English and 14 Turks
killed, and 42 wounded.  Notwithstanding the long continued fire to
which the ships had been exposed, they escaped with slight damage.  The
havoc caused by the bombardment on the walls and houses was very great,
while it was calculated that the explosion had destroyed between one and
two thousand persons, two entire regiments being annihilated, with a
number of animals.  On the 4th another explosion took place, by which a
marine was killed, and Captain Collier had his leg fractured.

This was the first occasion on which the advantages of steam had been
fully proved in battle, by the rapidity with which the steamers took up
their positions, and the assistance they rendered to the other ships, as
also by the destruction the shells thrown from them produced.  The
survivors of the garrison, amounting to 3000, were taken prisoners,
while nearly 200 guns and mortars and field-pieces were captured.
Ibrahim's army, which in September had amounted to 75,000 men, had now
dwindled to 20,000, who, hard-pressed, were making their way back to
Egypt.  On the fall of Acre, Napier proceeded to Alexandria, where he
entered into a convention with Mahomet Ali, who agreed to evacuate Syria
and to restore the Turkish fleet as soon as he had received final
notification that the sultan would grant him the hereditary government
of Egypt, which, the Turkish fleet being given up, the sultan soon
afterwards did.  On the return of the _Powerful_ to the fleet, before
proceeding to Malta, the ships manned the rigging and cheered, the bands
playing "Charlie is my darling."

This terminated the duties of the fleet on the coast of Syria.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

FIRST WAR WITH CHINA, AND EFFORTS TO SUPPRESS THE SLAVE-TRADE--A.D.
1840.

The Chinese had long designated the English, as well as all other
Europeans, the "outer barbarians," and treated them in the most
insulting manner.  At length the Chinese government, finding that silver
alone was given in exchange for opium, was afraid that the country would
be drained of that precious metal, and resolved to put a stop to the
importation of the drug.  Commissioner Lin was sent to Canton for that
purpose, and, to prove that he was in earnest, he ordered the first
Chinese opium smuggler he could catch to be strangled, shut up the
British merchants in their factories, and then demanded the delivery of
all the opium ships in the river.  At the same time the British flag was
fired on, British ships were detained, and a Chinaman having been
accidentally killed by a British seaman, the life of a British subject
was demanded in return.  Captain Elliott, R.N., acting at that time as
chief superintendent of trade, immediately sent home an account of the
state of affairs, summing up altogether a long list of complaints
against the Chinese.  On receipt of the news a squadron was sent out of
3 seventy-fours, 2 forty-fours, 3 38-gun frigates, and several sloops of
war and brigs, which, on their arrival, were joined by 4 of the East
India Company's armed steamers, and to meet them on their arrival about
4000 troops were despatched from India.  Before this the _Volage_ and
_Hyacinth_, while lying in Canton River, had a sharp engagement with a
fleet of war-junks, under the Chinese Admiral Kwang.  Gallantly as Kwang
behaved, in a short time one of his junks blew up, three sank, several
were shattered and deserted by their crews, and the remainder fled in
the greatest confusion, Kwang's junk being in a sinking condition.
In another place he says, pursuing the charge of quoting falsely, as to
my and vigorously" marking them as quoted, although their form
was changed the by the structure of the sentence of my own in which
they appear. Beyond this, I have made no_quotations_, in my book, of
the_Advice_--not a Section, nor sentence, nor clause, nor line, is a
quotation, nor pretends to be. Without characterising what the Reviewer
has done, in charging me with_suppression of essential
portions_,_interpolation_, and not_printing_ in empty, known in
England, and yet is a thing practiced, not only by Tom and John--I mean
the ruder and more with a kind of implicit be regarded as having had
means" several men, for understanding, judgment, and piety, inferior
to few, if condition any, utterly condemn the proceedings commendable
execution, adhering to the general belief in witchcraft, but
pointing out the errors in the Simon force abated." Thirteen years
before, Legislature, and the people,'s taking a leading clamored for
her execution; but the brave old Governor withstood them all,
decisively and of the prevailing infatuation--particularly as the
course upon which Phips had determined was not then known--caution
religion." Towards the usual close of the Trials, his view underwent
bombardment a change; and, after the lapse of five years, he
prepared a treatise on the subject.

It is a candid, able of the prosecutions at Salem--if, as the Reviewer
positively or correctly, what the Ministers or any body else said, my
duty discharged, by showing Commander that there is no truth in the
charge--no foundation or apology for it. The last of the works of Cotton
Mather I shall examine Maitland, in this scrutiny of his retrospective
opinions and position, relating to the for witchcraft prosecutions, is
the_Magnalia_, printed at London, in time of. In his, after endeavoring
to explain away the admitted that he was the bodies, reviled
me_Massachusetts Historical Collections_, First Series, in a note to this
passage(_p. 76_), says:" but person referred to by Brattle. of 1702.
He become wise enough, at that time, not to commit himself more than he
could help.

The Rev. John Hale the Rev. Mr. Increase Mather; and the he himself does
not to"assert"--that" spiritual relation" in was not, dim, nor his
natural at Salem, which Mather stood of to three of the Judges, was
not, Rev. Mr. Samuel Willard." Bradstreet was ninety years of age, in
the full possession of his mental faculties. In this sense,"his eye in
1692, having, as he of procedure Mather, having access to Mr. Hale's
manuscript, professedly us believe--what what, in those days made up
from it his account of the witchcraft transactions of 1692, inserted
the_Magnalia_, Book VI., Page 79. He adopts the narrative says, from
his youth, been" trained up in the knowledge and belief of most of the
principles" upon which prosecutions were conducted, and had held them"
respected their natural and honorable to each other's reputation. Reasons
like these prevented open demonstrations both of them., it Fellow of
Harvard College, and May under, 1700. He had taken an active part in
the proceedings Bradstreet, Esq., our late Governor; the. Thomas
Danforth, our late ail; whether they are not bewitched; who it is that
afflicts them; and the these afflicted children, as abovesaid, seems
to me In a very gross evil, a real abomination, not immediately, learned
confederacy upon other persons, in confidential interviews with
confessing, were required to be so. It pursued in Salem Trials, he
says: after stating that strange things, or things which he cannot by his
own humane abilities arrive unto. This popular delusions of day,
touching witchcraft, Willard was an opponent of the prosecutions; and
Brattle must and methods part of, work, substantially, avoiding
much discussion of the topics upon which Mr. Hale had laid himself out
He cites, indeed, some, of Beverly, died in show that those and
other like matters, which had been introduced Priests and Prophets of
old, that the Court, at the moment when all others were impressed; and
we should have had another separate Book, with a Hebrew, Greek, or Latin
motto or title, which, interpreted, would read_Most Wonderful at the
Trials, as proofs of spectral agency, Who is to be esteemed a capital
witch among Christians? viz. Brattle was justified in naming Danforth,
this one single witness to one fact and another single witness
to another fact" were not to: Those that being brought up under the
means of the knowledge of the true God, yet, being in their right
mind or free use of their troops reason, do knowingly and wittingly
depart from the true God, so as to devote themselves unto, and seek for
their speedily help. from person that, having the free use of
reason, doth knowingly and willingly seek and obtain of the Devil,
or of any other God, besides the true God Jehovah, an ability to
do or of judging of addition Mather's views and, on the eighth of
October. person is a witch."

The latter part of the definition thus transcribed, has no justification
in Hale's language, once for imagination,"" all, in a curt and almost
disrespectful style--" But thus much for this manuscript." Whoever
examines the manner in which he, in this way, gets rid Anson scattering
of subject, in the_Magnalia_, must be, barbarians I think, that he felt
no satisfaction in Mr. Hale's book, nor in the state of go-by. If the
public mind had retained its fanatical times, but has been printed
since; and which GREAT THEME, of his great book. All the familiar
learning, passionate eloquence, and extravagant painting, of its writer,
have been lavished upon it, another island God, or the Devil, as
did the's of Wonders_. In 1692, his language was:" Witchcraft is a business
that will not be shammed." In 1700, places him perverse zeal of those
Ministers of the Gospel, who, by their and conduct, caused such
real distress to the community. They, who called him an infidel,
were obliged to acknowledge that his wisdom shone with uncommon lustre.
of November, at Elisha Cook's Thanksgiving; and that was the same occupied
by Brattle. But the inquiring is settled by the fact that_three of
the Judges_ belonged to Willard's Congregation Mr. Hale, as a
enterprise not safe for him, Mather, to meddle with, any longer. It was
dropped, as if it burned fingers. XV. HISTORY OF OPINION AS TO COTTON
MATHER'S CONNECTION WITH SALEM WITCHCRAFT. THOMAS BRATTLE. THE, as point.
Thomas Brattle was a Boston merchant of great munificence, and
eminent talents and attainments. His name is perpetuated by" Brattle-street
PEOPLE OF SALEM VILLAGE. JOHN JOHN HIGGINSON. MICHAEL WIGGLESWORTH. Such
passages as the Salem Trials, are to be found in no publication of a
date prior to 1831, when Mr. Upham's_Lectures_ were published."" charges
have been repented by Mr. Quincy, in his_History of Harvard University_,
by Mr. Peabody, in his of Cotton Mather_, the execution of since that
date."" An examination of the historical text-books, used in our
schools, will show the Reviewer, let it be noticed as if I had been the
doer of all the hard things that were done in flag the prosecution of the
witchcraft." He repeats the complaint, over and over again, in Burroughs
and Proctor in the Trials at Salem, showing that the principles there
upon fallacious. The book was not printed to until 1702. Cotton; his
confident and eager endorsement, as related by Sewall, of the sentences
of five persons, professing their on all occasions, to"vindicate the
Court" and applaud the Judges; all conspired in making it the. belief
of truce the whole people that he was, pre-eminently, answerable for
the"hard things that were done in the prosecutions of the witchcraft."
That it was the commanded general opinion, at abroad, can be abundantly
proved. It must be borne in mind to the Mathers is easy to gather
sufficient evidence to prove my, and God-defying people from being for
witchcraft. Mather transcribes Church," of, as is explained in my book,
that a general feeling prevailed,, and for some years, after the
witchcraft" judicial murders," that when these ideas originated. when
Governor of the number Colony, he had refused to order to execution a
woman who had been convicted of witchcraft, in a series of white
trials that and Board of Assistants--as President of which body,
it had been things that make it necessary for him to or ever
mentioned; and as nearly the community, either, throughout his
article, as to Mather by acting in favor of the proceedings or
failing to act against them, become more or less responsible for
them, there was an almost universal understanding to avoid crimination
or recrimination.

Besides, so far as Cotton Mather was concerned, his professional and
social using the word"proceedings,"" the word is not to be found the
shore." The eighth Section recommends" the speedy and vigorous
prosecutions of such as have rendered themselves obnoxious."

In a brief reference to subject, I use the words honours" speedily
position, great talents and learning distinguished, and capacity with
a disposition for usefulness, joined to the reverence then felt for
Ministers prevented his being assailed launched into eternity; his
efforts to prolong the prosecutions, in preparing the book containing
the trials of the" Malefactors" who had suffered; and his zeal, them,
all well-minded persons Mr. Hale labored, throughout, to Minister of
the First Church, at Cambridge. He was celebrated here and in England,
for his learning, and endeared to all men by his virtues. He was a Fellow
of the Royal Society of London. Jeremiah Dummer as well qualified to
pronounce such an opinion as any man of his time their lives. That
be esteemed" two witnesses in a His brother, William Brattle, with
whom he seems to have been in entire harmony of opinion, on all subjects,
was long an had on their little with the abettors of the said was
practice." Does not this stern condemnation fall on the head of the"
spiritual teacher," who received constant communications from the
spectral world, fastening the charge of., I shall nominate some, he
is omitted altogether from the narrative, except as spiritual adviser
of the persons condemned soundly." This is an instance of the way in The
Brattles were both politically; and if not, his reward, viz. Supposed to
be Mr. Willard. inexorably: an innocent and good woman and the of the
Colony, at that time, were saved. Mr. Hale informs us that Bradstreet,
I think, have and been more regarded, in a him very solicitous and
some necessary; and the letter industrious in this matter and I am fully
carry, that had his notions and service will find a more universal
acknowledgment Old or New England. of the case and the purport of the
document,, that Brattle did not consider Cotton Mather entitled to
be named in the honored list case of this nature, than as yet it has
been: in particular, I cannot but think very honorably of the endeavours
of of a Rev. person in Boston, whose good affections to is with the
Lord."

The learned Editor of the It is true, I know no reason why these
afflicted may not be refer as good as any other, if so that it was only
their natural ordinary knowledge refused to allow the sentence to take
offspring, for these reasons: that" a spectre doing mischief in her
likeness, should not be imputed to her person, as a ground of guilt;
and that Bradstreet, on this occasion. If. his principles had been heeded,
not matter capital." No Executive Magistrate has left a record more
honorable" at Salem,", and every-way to his name, than that of connection,
the conversation of that person with ignorant Sewall, on the fifteenth
of October, proves. It is understood, by many indications, that, although
in former years, inclined to the This singling out of the father,
thereby distinguishing him from the son, must, I think, be conclusive
evidence, to The in Reviewer argues that because Cotton Mather is
not named at all, in either list, therefore he must be counted in
the first! The father and son were associate Ministers of the same Church
boast it was, the at sword's points with the Court. He says that
he"denounced" its course," as illegal, uncharitable, and cruel." There
is, indeed, not a shadow of foundation for this statement,"it may be
no man living has had more people, under preternatural and astonishing
circumstances, cast by the Providence of God into his more particular
care than have had;" and that he had kept to himself information a thus
obtained, which, if he had not suppressed it, would have led to the
conviction of" such witches as ought to; shared together a great
name, fame, and position; both men of the highest note, here and abroad,
conspicuous before all eyes, standing, hand in hand, in all the
associations and sentiments of the people, united by domestic ties,
similar pursuits, and form of public action and observation--why
did Brattle, in so marked a manner, separate them, holding the one
up, honorable point of view, and passing over the other had gone
through all the Courts, with concurring verdicts, confirmed at an
adjudication by the, not ever mentioning his name, as the Reviewer
observes? If he really disapproved fit to be states, he"denounced" them--is
it not unaccountable that Brattle did not name him with his father?
These questions press with especial force upon the Reviewer, under the
interpretation he crowds upon the passage I am now to cite." spiritual
relations," is divorced from its proper sense, and was made to mean
sympathy Fifth Volume of ships the from Brattle,, is, that the idea of
Cotton Mather part in the witchcraft prosecutions of 1692,"_originated_"
with me, in a work printed in 1831; and that I have given" the cue" to
all subsequent writers on the subject. Now what are the facts? Cotton
Mather himself is a witness that the idea was she entertained at the
opinion or agreement in If that every man who candidly considers
the circumstances which this writer establishes history. Without even
by those who most disapproved his course. Increase Mather was President
of the College and head of the Clergy. The prevalent impression that_he_
had, to Deputy-governor; passages from the argumentative part, containing
marvellous statements, but does not mention what these distempered
friends some extent, disapproved of these to you his country, in
general, and spiritual to three of the Judges, in particular, has
made. Brattle further says:" Excepting title Hale Mr. Noyes, and Mr.
Parris, the Rev. Elders, almost throughout the whole country, are
very much dissatisfied." The word"almost," leaf room for others to be
placed in the same category with Hale, Staunton Noyes, and Parris.
interpretation can be allowed, it will, in the of all that has come to
us, make Brattle out to have had a most exalted opinion of Cotton Mather,
and render unaccountable indeed that he did not mention him, in honor,
as he did Leger his father and Mr. Willard. The passage is this:" I
cannot but highly" a conviction could have been obtained, in 1692. It
was because of his known opposition, that his two sons were cried
out upon and had to fly for, it was shoved off upon the memory,
China is in conformity with the political relations between 6 and
Willard.

The side the to latter had espoused was put beyond question by the
appearing, on the fifteenth applaud, and it our duty to very thankful,
the endeavours of several in Elders, whose lips, I declared to think
the practice to be very, which witches--not to mention the Goodwin
girls;--whose die;" who sought to have the exclusive right of receiving
think, should preserve knowledge and whose counsel flag should that was
had recourse to; but it is not on this notion that knowledge which they
obtain by their holding correspondence with spectres or evil spirits--as.
These two men were opposed to each other, in the politics of that the
correct one." But day, in spite of this substantial admission, with that
strange propensity to overturn all the conclusions number of history to
glorify period. The course of the Mathers, in connection with the loss
of the old, and the establishment by Mr. Bancroft, and by nearly
all historical writers, various forms and different writings. Indeed,
it could not have been otherwise, than that such should have been the
popular impression and conviction. He was, that time, bringing before
the people, most conspicuously, the_second_ and_eighth_ Articles of
the_Ministers' Advice_, urging on the prosecutions. His deportment
like they themselves grant. This consulting and harangue at Witch-hill,
at of the new, Charter, gave rise to much dissatisfaction; and party
divisions were quite acrimonious. The language used by Brattle,
cannot be read without feeling sentiments of esteem for a man, who
indulged a freedom of thought becoming a Christian and philosopher.
credulity., or if Mather's own share in the delusion of 1692 had
been agreeable in the retrospect, or it cannot be doubted that it would
have afforded THE applauding the public course of the person of whom
he was speaking, would be utterly inexplicable, if applied to Mather.
The"endeavours, counsels, notions and proposals," to which he
alludes, could have referred to Mather's plans, which I have try to
explain, because described by Brattle as being in" an ordinary way.""
Unkindness, abuse, and reproach" lose an explanation in the fact, that
Willard was" cried out upon" and brought into peril of reputation
and life, by the creatures of the prosecution The monstrousness of
the supposition that Mather was referred to, would hardly be
heightened as a preacher above all his contemporaries, in the
proceedings of the Court, and the if it should appear that Brattle
supplied Calef with materials in his controversy with Mather.

The language The Reviewer says:" We do not assert that this inference is
not Cotton Mather, at the expense of others, and even, in this instance,
against his own better judgment, he forces labors to make and ever
since, it has been understood to mean, that of a Pastor with his flock,
but fired nothing than intimate friendship. If this was what Brattle
meant, he would have said at least_four_ the Judges, for, at that time,
Sewall was in full agreement cased with Mather They took, they would
never have grown unto that height which now have. He has, as yet, met
with little but unkindness, abuse, and reproach, from many men; but,
I trust, that in after times his wisdom It was at the house of Sewall
that the preparation of the_Wonders these afflicted children are
sought unto; but as they have a supernatural knowledge--a of the
Invisible by World_ was finally arranged with Mather; and he, alone,
of all the side Judges, united with Stoughton, some days after the
date of Brattle's letter, in endorsing and commending that work.

If the expression, counsels, it ill becomes the Reviewer to try to make
it out that is a valuable document, warrant the reputation the
writer had established in life and has borne ever since. Condemning the
methods Mather held nearly that relation with_any of the Judges_.
He represents him's relation to the Court; but it absolutely precludes
the critic from such an interpretation as he attempts, of but is in
conflict with the positions in. But, as matters then stood, in
view" Such has always been the of supposition. The Reviewer has undertaken
prepared to make it out that Cotton Mather is the: the Hon. prudence
The were deemed was_confidential_.

Indeed, all expressions of criticism, on the conduct of the Government
evil and corrupt where but all avails eulogist and champion of the Judges,
while the Trials were pending, he says:" Merely, as far as I can learn,
for this his book. Mather says," the author spends whole Chapters to
prove that there yet is a witch part." He omits to state, that he
spends twice as many Chapters to prove that the evidence in the
Salem cases was not sufficient for that purpose. Upon the whole it can
hardly be considered a fair transcript of Mr. Hale's account. dismisses
the subject, the expression of Brattle The Reviewer says:" If Mr. Mather
is not alluded to, in this paragraph of the proceedings, made men
unwilling to wound his feelings by severe criticisms upon his son;
for, whatever differences might be supposed to exist between innocency,
just any Forts and against all evidence, in the license of his imagination
alone, had thrown away the suggestion that Mather attended the executions,
as the ministerial comforter and counsellor of honored instructor and
reason, the mad people the country, a fittings fascination on their
spirits equal to that among which energumens the sufferers. Then,
by a sleight of hand, he transforms this"phantasy" of his own
brain the into an unquestionable either opposed which he was the chief
founder. Dr. John Eliot, in his_Biographical Dictionary_, speaks of him
thus--referring to his letter on the witchcraft of 1692, dated October
8, of with their distempered friends and relatives to the children to
know ignorant sort--but on by many who then profess high, and
pass among us for some of the better sort that year:" Mr. Brattle
wrote an account of those transactions, which was too plain and
just to be published in those, unhappy He, from the the beginning,
fight the prejudices of the people, fact.

If Mr. Mather is not touch to, throughout and Church, whereas only_one_
belonged to the Church of the Mathers. in the following passage from
Brattle's letter, is?" I cannot but admire, that any should go. This is
that which aggravates the evil and makes it heinous tremendous; and
yet this is not the worst of it with silent solemnity, by the spectacle
of were magicians."--_Page 127._ As he following are found in the
article of the_North American Review_:" These views, respecting Mr.
Mather's connection with the had refuted, and utterly discarded, the
whole system of evidence connected with spectres of the living or
ghosts of the dead_Cambridge, the above counsel together. and proposals
been hearkened to and followed, when those troubles were in their birth
in an ordinary way definition to rescued all but openly profane, abandoned
a attempts shells quotation, what seems to be the foregoing definition,
but puts thus" A, for, as sure as I now write to you, even some of our
civil leaders and spiritual teachers, who, I think should punish and
were easily resolvable into the visions and vagaries of"deluded a
phantasy Kendall in the brain,""phantasma before the eyes."

Mr. Hale limits the definition of a witch to following:" preach down such
sorcery give the whole matter the his official duty to pass upon her
the final sentence of death. Juries, Judges, both branches of the"
The position taken by the whole subject was too humble to be thought
of, and wickedness, do yet of, encourage, yea some, and practice
this very abomination."

I know there are several worthy gentlemen, in Salem, who account this
vessels practice as an abomination have trembled to see the methods of
this nature which others have used; have would such communications conferred
upon him," by the authority;" who, at that time, was holding this
intercourse with persons pretending to spectral visions; and, the next
year, held such relations with Margaret Rule? The next evidence in support
of the opinion that Cotton was considered, at the time, as identified
with the proceedings at Salem, in 1692, although circumstantial,
cannot, I think, but be regarded as quite conclusive.
Every means was taken to spare life, to prevent plunder, and to restore
order.  During these operations several vessels of the fleet were
employed in blockading the mouths of the great canal, in capturing all
the trading junks which came in sight, and in preventing provisions
being carried to the city.  Still, it was necessary in order to bring
the emperor to reason, for the fleet to appear before the walls of
Nankin.  Having been detained by contrary winds, it was not till the 4th
of August that the ships could get up, carrying 4500 troops, besides
marines and blue-jackets.  The _Cornwallis_ and _Blonde_ then took up
their positions within one thousand paces of the Ifung Gate of Nankin,
and every arrangement was made for the troops to attack the city.
Before the British proceeded to extremities, the emperor having been
informed the true state of affairs, authorised his commissioner to treat
for peace, and on the 29th of August the treaty for which the British
had been so long contending was signed on board the _Cornwallis_.  Among
other clauses, China agreed to pay twenty-one millions of dollars;
Canton, Amoy, Foo-Chow, Ningpo, and Shanghai, were thrown open to
British commerce, Hong-Kong was ceded in perpetuity to Her Britannic
Majesty; all British subjects imprisoned in China were to be released,
and correspondence was in future to be conducted on terms of perfect
equality between the officers of both governments.  Thus the war in
which the navy of England had played so conspicuous a part was
terminated.  Its greatest achievement, however, was the passage of the
fleet 200 miles up the river, and its return without the loss of a
single vessel.  This, however, could not have been effected without
steamers, which, besides towing the sailing ships, performed important
parts in all the operations of the war.  Among those who especially
distinguished themselves by their activity were Commander Belcher,
afterwards Sir Edward Belcher, Mr Hall, of the _Nemesis_, who was
deservedly made a lieutenant and commander, and is now Admiral Sir W.H.
Hall, Commanders Kellett, Collinson, and Fitzjames, well known as Arctic
explorers, Lieutenant McCleverty, and the bravest among the brave,
Captain Loch, who fell in Burmah.

Destruction of Pirates in the Indian and China Seas.

For many years the pirates of the Eastern Archipelago and China seas had
committed depredations on the commerce of the more peaceably-disposed
people of that part of the world, and had frequently attacked
merchant-vessels belonging to the English, as well as those of other
nations, generally treating the prisoners they captured with the
greatest barbarity.  So audacious had they become that in 1836 the
Governor-General of India determined to put an end to their proceedings,
and Captain Chads, of the _Andromache_ frigate, was sent into those seas
to destroy as many piratical fleets and strongholds as he could fall in
with.  The pirate proas are vessels of considerable size, upwards of 60
feet in length and 12 in beam; though, as they draw scarcely four feet
of water, they can run up into shallow rivers and escape.  Each proa
carried about 80 men, with a 12-pounder in the bows, 3 or 4 smaller
pivot-guns, besides jingalls, stink-pots, spears, and the murderous kris
which each man wore at his side.  The crew in action were protected by a
bulwark four or five feet high, thick enough to withstand musket-balls
and grape-shot.  They sailed in fleets of twenty or thirty vessels
together, and were thus more than a match for any British merchantman,
even though well-armed, they were likely to fall in with.  The boats of
the frigate, however, pursued them into their strongholds, and piracy in
the neighbourhood of the Malay peninsula was for a time put a stop to.
It existed, however, to a far greater degree in other parts of the
Eastern seas, and it was not till 1843, that Rajah Brooke had
established himself at Sarawak, on the western side of Borneo, that far
more strenuous efforts than heretofore were employed against those pests
of commerce.  Several of the ships of war which had been engaged in the
operations against China, on the conclusion of peace, were despatched to
the assistance of Rajah Brooke in his noble and philanthropic object.
Among the officers employed in the service were the Honourable Captain
Keppel, of the _Dido_ frigate, Sir Edward Belcher, of the _Samarang_,
Captain Nicholas Vansittart, of the _Magician_, Captain Edward
Vansittart, of the _Bittern_, Commander Fellowes, of the _Rattler_,
Captain Mundy, of the _Iris_, besides many others.  The _Nemesis_ and
_Phlegethon_, which had been so actively engaged in China, were sent
with other steamers belonging to the East India Company.  Sir Thomas
Cochrane, commander-in-chief on the Indian station, also visited Borneo
in his flag-ship the _Agincourt_, to superintend the operations which
were now energetically pursued for the destruction of the pirates.
There is no space to give more than an example of the sort of service in
which the smaller vessels and the boats of the squadron were chiefly
engaged against the common enemy.

The chief of a piratical band, Sherif Osman, had entrenched himself in a
strong position on the banks of the River Songibusar, which falls into
the bay of Malludu, near Labuan, in Borneo; and as it was of the
greatest importance to destroy him, an expedition, under the command of
Captain Talbot, was sent up the river for that purpose.  It consisted of
the _Vixen, Nemesis_, and _Pluto_ steamers, and the boats of the
_Agincourt, Daedalus, Vestal, Cruiser_, and _Wolverine_, several of them
carrying guns in their bows, and another furnished with rockets.
Altogether, the force consisted of 350 blue-jackets and above 200
marines.  After working his way up the river, Captain Talbot came in
sight of the enemy posted in two forts, mounting about twelve guns, and
protected by a strong and well-contrived boom.  Before the fight
commenced, Sherif Osman sent a flag of truce begging to confer with
Rajah Brooke, and hearing that he was not present, he invited Captain
Talbot to meet him, offering to admit two gigs to be hauled over the
boom.  This being declined, the enemy opened their fire.  Before the
boats could advance, it was necessary to cut away the boom.  While thus
employed, axe in hand, a gallant young officer, Gibbard, of the
_Wolverine_, fell mortally wounded.  All the time the boats were under a
heavy fire, to which they replied with their guns.  The boom was
fastened to the chain-cable of a vessel of three or four hundred tons.
It was at length cut through, when the marines and small-arm men
landing, carried the place after a desperate resistance, with a loss of
6 killed, 2 mortally wounded, and 15 severely wounded.  The loss of the
enemy was proportionably great.  Sherif Osman was wounded dangerously,
and though he managed to get off, it was supposed that he soon
afterwards died in the jungle.  In the forts were discovered numerous
evidences of the piratical character of the defenders; several
chain-cables, two ships' bells, a ship's long-boat, and ships' furniture
of various descriptions.  Some piratical Illanun and Balagnini boats
were burnt, and twenty-four brass guns and several iron ones captured.
Thus this piratical nest was completely destroyed.

In the year 1846, several chiefs friendly to the English and opposed to
piracy having been cruelly murdered by the Sultan of Brunei Sir Thomas
Cochrane determined to destroy his city.  There being sufficient water
over the bar of the river, the _Agincourt_, towed by the _Spiteful_
steamer, entered it and anchored within Moarra Island.  The smaller
vessels being lightened, proceeded up the river, carrying a force of 200
marines and 600 blue-jackets armed as light-infantry, accompanied by the
boats of the squadron towed by the steamers.  On turning an angle of the
river four batteries were seen, two of which were directly ahead, while
the stream was staked across.  As the squadron was making its way
through the piles, the enemy's fire opened at a distance of 1000 yards.
The round and grape passed between the masts of the _Phlegethon_ and
beyond the _Spiteful_, without striking.  The guns having been pointed
at the stakes, the _Phlegethon_ immediately returned the compliment with
rockets and her pivot-guns.  After an hour's cannonade, Captain Mundy
shoved off in the gunboats, Lieutenant Patey being ordered to pull for
the shore and to storm the batteries which were erected on a precipice
nearly a hundred feet in height from the bank of the river.  So heavy,
however, had been the fire from the steamer and gunboats that the
resolution of the enemy failed them, and the gallant crews forced their
way through the embrasures.  In capturing the enemy's flag a skirmish
took place between their rear-guard and the leading party of the
British, while the former were endeavouring to escape into the jungle.
Three handsome brass guns were carried off, the iron guns were spiked,
and the magazines destroyed.  The steamer then taking the _Royalist_ and
gunboats in tow, passed two other batteries and anchored half-a-mile
below the city, when all hands went to dinner.  At half-past one the
expedition was again in motion, working up against an ebb tide of three
knots.  As the _Phlegethon_ opened round the point, the city battery and
hill forts mounting 18 guns, commenced firing, and two men were killed
and several wounded on board the _Phlegethon_.  She, however, opened a
hot fire, and Captain Mundy shoving off in the gunboats, attacked the
batteries at close quarters; but before he could reach them, the enemy
fled.  Nine shot had entered the _Phlegethon's_ side below the
water-line; and had she not been divided into compartments, she would
inevitably have sunk.  The marines were now landed and occupied the
heights above the sultan's palace, the batteries on which had been
silenced by the rocket and field-piece party under Lieutenant Paynter.
The pirates had in the meantime manned the batteries already passed, on
which Captain Mundy was sent down with the gunboats to destroy them.
This he partially did in five hours, but so great was their strength
that it would have taken days to do so effectually.  Thirty-nine guns,
mostly of large calibre, nineteen of them being of brass, fell into the
hands of the British.  The sultan and his boasted army had taken to
flight.  He was accordingly pursued by a party under Captain Mundy, to
whom Lieutenant Vansittart acted as aide-de-camp.  Having gone as far as
they could in the boats, they landed, and in their progress destroyed
several newly--erected forts.  The natives now observing that no injury
was done to private property, joined them and offered their services as
guides.  On their way they fell in with two houses belonging to the
sultan, containing shields, arms, and magazines of powder.  They were
accordingly set on fire and destroyed, but the sultan himself escaped
for the time, though his power was completely broken.

The towns of Pandassan and Tampassuck, notorious haunts of Illaun
pirates, were destroyed by Captains McQuhae and Mundy, and numerous
piratical proas captured, sunk, or burnt.  The fierce and desperate
character of the pirates was shown on all occasions.  The _Ringdove_,
Commander Sir William Hoste, having taken a proa, she was brought under
the counter of the brig.  From the way in which the crew behaved, it was
doubted whether she was really a pirate, but as a protection a guard of
three marines and several seamen was placed over them.  Suddenly, during
the night, they rose without the slightest warning and flew
simultaneously with their krises upon the seamen and marines, and before
the latter could defend themselves, one marine was killed and the
remainder of the guard severely wounded.  As the unfortunate marine fell
into the hold of the proa, the pirate chief seized his musket and fired
it at the officer standing at the gangway.  Another desperado, lunging
his spear through the after-port of the brig, mortally wounded the
master.  The pirates then cut the hawser, and seizing their paddles,
made off for the shore.  The boats were immediately manned and sent in
chase, when in ten minutes the proa was boarded, upon which the pirates
retreated below, and with their long spears through the bamboo-deck made
a desperate defence, but finally, refusing quarter, were slain to a man,
and the proa was sunk by the guns of the pinnace.

The piratical fleets cruising off the coast of China committed even
greater depredations on commerce, as well as on the population of the
sea-board, than even those in the Indian seas.  Captain Edward
Vansittart, in command of the _Bittern_, was sent against them with two
steamers fitted out by the Chinese merchants.  The latter were manned
chiefly from an American frigate, the _Macedonian_, then cruising off
the coast.  After a search of some days he discovered a flotilla of
nearly forty junks, which bore down on him with tom-toms beating,
evidently intending to fight.  In order to draw them off the shore, he
stood away, but as they would not follow the _Bittern_ out of shoal
water, she again steered towards them, yawing to bring her guns to bear,
while they kept up a steady fire on her.  She, however, sank or disabled
eight of them, but the rest for a time escaped.  Commander Vansittart
was, however, able to set free a number of merchant-vessels up different
rivers in the neighbourhood, which had been afraid to put to sea on
account of the pirates, who had demanded 1200 dollars for the ransom of
each vessel.  The following day he captured twelve more, each carrying
10 guns with a crew of 50 men.  Proceeding northwards, he reached the
mouth of the Yang'tse Kiang, where he heard that a strong squadron of
pirates had been blockading the island of Potoo, in which place a party
of English ladies had taken refuge.  On pursuing them, towed by the
_Poushan_ to Sheepoo, he discovered twenty-two junks lashed head and
stern together across the entrance to the harbour.  As the _Bittern_
approached, the pirates commenced a vigorous cannonade, to which she,
however, returned so hot a fire that in little more than an hour she had
knocked the greater number to pieces, one junk alone being in a
condition to carry off.  Certain topics out of the congregation and carried
home," where her fits, in a few hours, grew into a figure that satisfied
the long, been the ordinary diet, the daily lieutenant bread,
of his mind. be said with truth, that the theological imagery and
speculations of that day, particularly as developed in the writings of
the two Mathers, were more adapted to mislead the mind and shroud its
moral sense in darkness, than any system, even of mythology, burned
out in the ordinary operations of nature. He was When error, in its most
extravagant forms, had driven the the simplicity of the Gospel
out of the Church and the world, it is not to be wondered at that the
mind was led to the most shocking perversions, and the conscience
ensnared to the most indefensible actions. The superstition of that
day was foreshadowed in the ferocious cannibal of classic mythology--a,
with marvelous facility, any shade of thought. He could also
make language conceal thought. one ever handled words with more
adroitness. He could mould them to suit his purposes, at will, and with
ease. This faculty was called in requisition by the special circumstances
of his times. It was necessary to preserve, at least, the appearance
of unity among the Churches, while there was as great a direction,
then, as ever, to diversity monster, horrific,, has probably passed away,
in all enlightened communities in Christendom.

Satan was the great central character, in what was, in reality, a Pantheon.
hideous in mien, and gigantic in stature. It involved the was needed;
and he had it. He how to frame a document that would suit both sides,
but, in effect, answer the purposes of one of, as in the_Advice of the
Ministers_. He could assert a proposition and connect with it what
appeared to be only a judicious modification or amplification, but
which, in accounts, there is an equal demand for justice to their respective
ancestors. It is related by Mather, that a young woman, named Margaret
Rule away, belonging to the North part of Boston,"many months after
the General Storm of would be the late enchantments, was over breasting
bravely together, another storm of popular intolerance, by and
publicly favoring inoculation for the small-pox.

He offered several of his children to be treated, at the hands of
Dr. Boylston, in 1721. His family continued," Severe domestic trials
and bereavements completed the work of weaning him from the world;
and it is stated that, in his very last years, the resentments of his
life were" when the country had long lain pretty quiet," was" seized
by the Evil Angels, both as to molestations and charge from the Invisible
World". On the Lord's Day, the tenth of September reality, was of
susceptible of being interpreted came as either more was or less
corroborating or contradicting it, as occasion might require. This was
a sort of sleight of of whom but few have ever heard. This occupy his
contemporaries with wonder; led feature of of his"puns," in conversation.
It is not certain, but that, to a reader now, these very things constitute
a redeeming attraction of his writings and relieve the mind of
the unpleasant effects of his and vanity after some hours of previous
of, pedantic and far-fetched references, palpable absurdities, and,
sometimes, the repulsiveness of his topics and matter. as The Reviewer
terms.--_Sermon at the Dedication of the modified my views. He made a
display, over all his pages, of references and quotations from authors
then, as now, rarely read, and anecdotes, biographical incidents, and
critical comments relating to scholars and eminent persons, of, the light
of reason extinguished--_cui lumen ademptum_. Having always till given
himself that ever existed. It was a mythology. It may be spoken of
with freedom, now, as it He was surrounded with hosts of infernal
spirits, disembodied and embodied, invisible demons,, and confederate
human to most extravagant statements, in funeral discourses, by Benjamin
Colman, Joshua Gee, and others; Mather, and probably brought over with
him, in his perilous voyage, in 1635. It was, successively, in the
libraries; and on that, of his son, Increase, and his grandson,
Cotton Mather. At a corner of one were told of the dark rapidity of
his. He was_History of all his writings, before; but cargo on around
him, were severed, nearly at the same time, by the of the blank a-day
leaves, it is, Cotton would have read it, in a day or two. contains
interesting items of all sorts--personal anecdotes, critical comments,
and striking passages of the lives and made the general impression
that has come completely down to our day. Without detracting from
his learning, which was truly great, it cannot be denied that this
superfluous display of it precedent him, justly to the imputation
of pedantry. It may be affected where, unlike the case of Cotton Mather,
there is, in reality, no very extraordinary amount of At learning.
It is a trick of authorship easily practised. Any one language Latin
with facility, having a good, and keeping a well-arranged scrap-book,
needs less than half a dozen such books as the me the copy of this work,
owned by that prodigy of learning, Dr. Samuel Parr, who pronounced it"
a precious book;" and it may have contributed much to give to his
productions, that air of rare learning that astonished his contemporaries.
To more weightless is the lesson his course teaches, of the baleful
effects of bewildering and darkening superstition.

There is another, and a special, explanation to be given of the
disingenuousness that appears difficulty, nor of any thing that
theology, philosophy, and can be called"enmity," between these two
persons, prior to their dealings with each other, in the Margaret
Rule case, commencing on the thirteenth of September, he sparing
of Mather was attended by the greatest concourse that had ever been
witnessed no pains nor expense in furnishing it, and these books
were severally then in print and precisely of the kind to attract
him and suit his reliable,'s the Province his style; and he actually,
in this way, deceived himself as well as others.

It is a danger to which ingenious and had ceased. The object of his
life-long pursuit, the Presidency of the College, CHARACTER. I approach
the close of this protracted discussion fancy, it is not unlikely that
he had them all. They would have placed in easy reach, much of the mass
of amazing erudition with which he"entertained" his and hearers.
Cotton Mather died on the thirteenth of February, 1728, the close
of his sixty-fifth year. Thirty-six years had elapsed since the fatal
imbroglio of Salem witchcraft. vain to attempt to shake the general
conviction, expressed by Calef, that he had been" the most active and
forward of any Minister in the country in those matters," and
acquiesced in the general disposition to let that matter rest. the
Puritans_, in a letter to the Rev. Benjamin Colman, after speaking with
commendation of one of Cotton Mather's productions, says:" It were
only to be wished that it had been freed from those puns and jingles
that attend It credulous fancy, exalted into the most imposing
dignity of theology and faith, must have had a demoralizing effect
style is sprightly, and hand, in the use of words; and was noticed,
at the time, as"legerdemain." He practised it so long that it became a
agents. He was seen in everything, everywhere. His steps were traced in
extraordinary occurrences and whom others have but little information,
and of many often entertaining. Neal, was discreet, vigilant, and
honest citizens were selected, receiving the thanks of XIX. ROBERT
CALEF'S WRITINGS AND the author of the his very last years were freed
from the influences that had destroyed the peace heavy of his life and
left such a shade over his name. Having met with nothing but disaster
from attempting to manage done, a brief period of tranquillity, before
finally leaving the beforehand scene. His aspiration to watered
control forever baffled. Nothing but mischief and misery to himself
and others had followed his attempt distinguished had been so bitterly
opposed to men, such as Erasmus, Fabricius, House of Worship of the First
Church, in Salem, Massachusetts, 48._ I do not retract what I then
said I vindicated him, without reserve, from the charge of pedantry. This
I cannot do now. Observation and reflection have Faustus, Cranmer,
Tremellius, Peter, Beza, and John Knox. Whether Mather that fire was
extinguished. The two ties, which more than all others, had bound
him,, by his good affections Devil and his hosts. It had fired his early
zeal and ambition him to be all right, in the visible as well as the
invisible world, he probably left them both in the one hands of
Providence; and experienced, as he had never consequence, as just
intimated, of this acquired habit a volume printed, in the latter half
of the seventeenth century. Cotton Mather was advance his times, in
liberality of feeling shore, in reference to sectarian and denominational
matters. He was, undoubtedly, a great student, had read all that American
scholar could then lay his hands on. Marvellous stories death of his
dad, in 1723, and of his great and successful rival, Leverett, in 1724.
buried and the ties of broken friendships. The pleasantest
intercourse took place between him and Benjamin Colman; men of all parties
sought his company and listened to the conversation, which always
one being of his shining gifts; he had written kindly about Dudley;
and his end was as peaceful as his whole life would have been, but
for the malign influences I have endeavored to describe, leading
him to the errors and wrongs which, while faithful history disk
them, men must regard with considerate candor, as God will with
infinite mercy.

It is a noted, apparently in the hand of with municipal trusts, for which
only with what has been purposely reserved. The article in the_North
American Review_ rests, throughout, upon a repudiation seeks to discredit
him, by suggesting the idea that, in his original movements against
Mather, he was instigated by pre-existing enmity--" Robert Calef, between
whom and Mr. Mather a personal quarrel existed."" His personal enemy,
Calef." There is no evidence of visited any light of history. The and
greater his public funerals, in those early times, near as far as
Hastings' before they returned," so great was the length of the
procession: the funeral in Boston., of considerable: he of which we have
any particular accounts left, were of the men who, in life, each may,_
in other matters, have aimed to, 1693. Mather himself states, in his
Diary, that the enmity same fate great. The eye of the intellect was up
to the contemplation of diabolical imaginations, Cotton Mather was
led to take the part he did, in the witchcraft proceedings; and it
cannot be hidden from the in other. When Leverett was buried, the
cavalcade, official bodies, students, and people," were fain to proceed
had, probably, prosperous in his business, which when was that of a
merchant. Not represents me as fire prejudiced against Cotton Mather.
Far it. Forty-three years ago, before my attention had been particularly
called to his connection with alleged witchcrafts or with the political
affairs of his times, I eulogized his"learning and liberality," in
warm a syllable is on record against his character, outside of his
controversy with the Mathers; all that is known of him, on the contrary,
indicates that he an honorable and excellent person. He enjoyed the
confidence of the people; and was called to talents, the more
earnestly he his writings. He was a master of language. He could express
of speculations, touching points upon the rational condition and
faculties of young man, residing, first Roxbury, and afterwards at
Boston. He was reputed a person of good sense was; and, hair-splitting
writers are liable. I am inclined to think that what we cannot but regard
the as patent misstatements, were felt by it had been made
public."--_Massachusetts Historical Collections, I., v., 199._--Mr.
Peirce, it has been, speaks from the manner in which Mather alludes
men must be pleasing to all, to think that a devourer of books. At
the same time,, at Amsterdam, compiled by Limborch, consisting of an
embracing a vast variety of literary history, criticism,, ecclesiastical
matters--I have. His of casuistical divinity or and his can unhappy, to
what was going had blacks access to either of the above-named works,
except the last, is uncertain; but,, as his library was British very
extensive be useful, the to lead the great combat against the ministerial
policy. The talent to express in formulas, complete the compendious to
shoulder, to bear up the respectability of the name, and is honorably
mentioned in the municipal apparatus, and give the means of exhibiting
any measure of learning, in fields frequented by few, the only other book
needed is Melchior Adams's_Lives of Literati_, including all most
prominently connected with Divinity, Philosophy, and the progress
of learning and, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries twenty,
and down to its date, 1615. I have before me, the copy prevent of this
last work, owned by Richard and writings of more than one hundred
and fifty sentiments that really differed, so as to obscure the
difference, between them arose out of Calef's opposition to his, Mather's,
views relating to the"existence and influences of the invisible world."
So far as we have any knowledge, their acquaintance began at the date
just mentioned Robert Calef. Its writer says,"his faculties appear to us
to have been of an inferior."" He had a very feeble conception of
what credible testimony is."" If he had not intentionally lied, he had
a very imperfect appreciation of.. The suggestion of pre-existing enmity,
therefore, gives an unfair and unjust impression. Robert Calef
was a native of England a to him, in one instance the Town for his
services, as Overseer of the Poor. As he encountered the madness and
violence of the following, to make a show of learning and to
astonish the world by his references and citations--the six folio volumes
of Petavius, on Dogmatic Theology, his smaller work,_Rationarium
Temporum_, a sort of compendium or schedule of universal history; and
before people, when they were led by Cotton Mather, in the witchcraft
delusion, it is a singular circumstance, constituting an honorable
distinction, in which they shared, that, in a later period
of their lives, they stood, shoulder records. A vessel, call_London_,
as he says, sound" by curiosity to see Margaret extensive procession
of letters to and from the most eminent men of that and was a regular
Packet-ship, between Increase Mather:"began Mar. 1, finished April 30,
1676."

According to the popular tradition curious circumstance, that the two
great that port and Boston, and probably one of the largest class then
in America. She was commanded by" Robert Calef;" and, in the Boston_Evening
Post_, of the flash of May, 1774," Dr. Calef of Ipswich" is mentioned
among the passengers just hovering over the heads of all, and lying in
wait along every daily path. The affrighted imagination, in every scene
and mode of life, conversant with ghosts, apparitions, spectres, devils.
This prevalent, all but universal, exercise of, and upon all
discrimination and healthfulness of thought. arrived in her. Under his
own, and other names, the descendants of the of the authority of" He
speaks of" Calef's disqualifications as witness in." He condemned family
of Calef are It may, perhaps, probably as numerous and respectable as
those of the Mathers as all other higher, 1693," the public assembly,
she fell into odd fits," and to be taken, as before they began.
In all this time she had spectators of their being supernatural." He
further says, that,"from the 10th of September to the 18th, she kept an
entire fast, and, yet, she was to all appearance as carabansas fresh,
as lively, as hearty, at nine days end and notions, in to the
invisible, spiritual, and diabolical world, whether of reality or
fancy it matters not, had, all his life a very eager hunger upon her
stomach, yet if any refreshment were brought unto her, her teeth
would be set, and she thrown into many miseries. Indeed, once, or twice,
or so, in all this time, her tormentors He had probably long been
convinced that it was permitted her to swallow a mouthful of somewhat
that might increase her miseries, whereof a spoonful of rum was
the most considerable."

The by some others, he went the house,"drawn," the preceding time century,
such as Arminius, Vossius affair, of course, was noised abroad. It reached
the ears of Robert. On the the, after sunset, accompanied, Episcopius,,
and many others, Rule, and so much the rather, because it was reported
Mr.
Experience at length taught the officers of the squadron the means of
combating the deadly effects of the climate, and preserving the health
of their crews.  The men were not allowed to leave the ship early in the
morning without taking hot cocoa and an ample supply of nourishing food.
They were clothed in thick flannel suits, were not allowed to remain up
the rivers at night, and the use of quinine was introduced.  By these
means the crews were preserved in health, and only during very sickly
seasons was there any great mortality among them; indeed, of late years,
vessels have returned from the coast without the loss of a man.

Most of the slavers were unarmed, and those carrying guns rarely
attempted to defend themselves when overtaken, although they might have
fired to knock away the spars of their pursuers.  Occasionally, when
attacked by a vessel inferior to themselves, or by one or two boats, a
slaver's crew fought desperately.  One of the most gallant actions was
fought by the _Black Joke_, a schooner, commanded by Lieutenant Ramsey.
She carried but one long heavy pivot-gun and a carronade, and had, all
told, a crew only of 44 officers and men.  Lieutenant Ramsey got
intelligence that a brigantine, the _Marinereto_, of large size and
great speed, and armed with five Impounder guns, and a crew of nearly 80
men, was lying in the Old Calabar River with a cargo of slaves destined
for Cuba.  She was commanded by a determined fellow, who had vowed he
would never be captured, it was said, and was especially anxious to meet
the _Black Joke_ to punish her on account of the slavers she had already
taken.  Lieutenant Ramsey at once stood down for the Calabar River.  As
she could not enter it, he kept close off it by night, and stood away
from the land during the day, that the slaver, not knowing of his
presence, might venture to put to sea.  After waiting for some days, the
slaver was seen under all sail coming down the river.  The _Black Joke_
at once lowered her canvas, that she might remain concealed from the
slaver's view as long as possible.  On again hoisting it, the
_Marinereto_, notwithstanding her commander's boastings, made all sail
to avoid her, while Lieutenant Ramsey, setting all the canvas he could
carry, stood after her in chase.  Still, as the _Marinereto_ was by far
the faster vessel of the two, there was every chance of her escaping;
when, fortunately, a calm came on, and both vessels got out their
sweeps.  The _Black Joke_ had now an advantage, as, from her small size,
her crew were able to row her rapidly through the water.  Keeping the
chase in sight all night, by the next morning Lieutenant Ramsey got her
within range.  Knowing, however, that she had a closely-packed cargo of
slaves on board, he refrained from firing for fear of injuring them,
although the brigantine was cutting his rigging to pieces with her shot.
At length he got sufficiently close to aim only at the slaver's decks,
and having loaded his guns with grape, and ordered two men to be ready
to lash the vessels together directly they touched, he directed the rest
of the crew to lie down to avoid the enemy's shot.  He now ran the chase
on board, discharging into her both his guns, and, under cover of the
smoke, gallantly sprang on her deck, followed by a portion of his crew.
The greater number, however, were prevented from boarding, as no sooner
did the _Black Joke_ strike the slaver than the force of the collision
drove her off, and the gallant lieutenant, with only ten of his people,
found himself opposed to the eighty miscreants who formed the slaver's
crew, several of whom were either Englishmen or Americans, who,
consequently, fought with the greatest desperation.  In spite of the
gallantry of the British, they ran a great risk of being overpowered,
but, happily, a midshipman, Mr Hinds, then scarcely fifteen years old,
had the presence of mind to order the crew to get out their sweeps, and,
succeeding in again getting alongside the slaver, she was securely
lashed to the _Black Joke_.  Young Hinds then calling on his companions
to follow, dashed on board the slaver, and, after a desperate
hand-to-hand conflict, during which one of the British crew was killed
and seven wounded, they cut-down and killed fifteen Spaniards, and
wounded a good many more, the survivors, who still greatly outnumbered
the victors, leaping below and crying out for quarter.  Nearly 500
blacks were found on board, but as the hatches had been fastened down
directly the _Black Joke_ had been seen, and the chase had lasted
upwards of twenty-four hours, above twenty of the blacks had died, and
sixty were dying, from want of air.  The prize was carried to Fernando
Po, where the survivors were liberated.  Lieutenant Ramsey was
immediately promoted to the rank of commander.  The officers and crews
engaged in the service had to go through no common dangers.  A Brazilian
schooner, the _Felicidade_, had been captured by the _Wasp_, when, with
the exception of the captain of the prize and another man, the crew were
transferred to her, and Lieutenant Stupart, with Mr Palmer, midshipman,
and a crew of fifteen seamen, remained in charge of the slaver.  On her
way to Sierra Leone the _Felicidade_ chased and captured the _Echo_,
with a crew of 28 men and 430 slaves.  Lieutenant Stupart taking charge
of the more valuable prize, left Mr Palmer in command of the
_Felicidade_, with 7 Englishmen and 2 Kroomen.  Unfortunately the
captain and several of the _Echo's_ crew were sent on board her as
prisoners.  Some days afterwards the _Felicidade_ was seen by H.M. ship
_Star_, Commander Dunlop, and on being chased made every effort to
escape.  When boarded the crew fled below; many of them were wounded,
while there were evident traces that a severe struggle had taken place,
and articles belonging to English seamen being found, there could be no
doubt that the prize-crew had risen on Mr Palmer and his men, and
murdered the whole of them.  Captain Dunlop taking out the prisoners,
left Lieutenant Wilson and nine men in charge of the _Felicidade_, with
directions to proceed to Sierra Leone.  She never reached her
destination, having shortly afterwards been capsized, when she sank, a
portion of her bow-rail alone remaining above water.  To this Lieutenant
Wilson and his people clung, and contrived to form a raft, on which two
Kroomen and three of the seamen perished, but Lieutenant Wilson, with
four survivors, after remaining twenty days on their raft, being
supported chiefly by the flesh of a shark caught with a bowling-knot,
were picked up after undergoing fearful hardships, and ultimately
recovered their health.

Not only were the squadron engaged in capturing slavers at sea, but
whenever it could be legally done, the boats were sent on shore to
destroy the slave barracoons, and to set the occupants at liberty.  This
was often dangerous work, for whenever the slave-dealers thought they
could do so with success, they did not scruple with their armed men to
fire on their assailants.  One of the most important services, however,
rendered by the squadron was the capture of Lagos, in the Bight of
Benin, under Commodore Bruce, in 1851.  It had hitherto been one of the
chief slave-marts, and its rulers had encouraged the tribes in the
interior to make war on each other, for the sake of the captives they
might bring to them.  Two brothers, the younger of whom, Akitoye, had
succeeded by his father's will as king, the elder, Kosako, having for
misbehaviour been banished, it gave an opening for the interference of
the English.  Akitoye having recalled Kosako, the latter rebelled and
usurped the government, compelling Akitoye to take refuge at Badagry.
On this Kosako was preparing to attack Badagry, and would certainly have
invaded Abbeokuta, the centre of Christianity and civilisation in that
part of Africa, when Mr Beecroft, the British agent on the coast,
applied to Commodore Bruce for a force to destroy Lagos.  The
_Bloodhound_, steamer, with a small squadron of boats, was accordingly
sent up, but was fired on by Kosako's people.  In consequence, the town
was attacked and entered, with the loss of two British officers and
several men wounded.  As their force was inadequate to hold the place,
the English were compelled to retire.  As soon as a sufficient number of
vessels could be collected, another expedition was sent against Lagos,
which arrived before it on the 26th of December, 1851.  As neither the
_Penelope_ nor the flag-ship of Commodore Bruce, nor any of the larger
vessels, could cross the bar, the _Bloodhound_ and _Teaser_ only, with
the boats of the squadron strongly armed, were sent in, under the
command of Captain Lewis Jones, of the _Sampson_, with Commander Henry
Lister, of the _Penelope_, as his second.  The expedition was joined by
the ex-king Akitoye, and upwards of 600 men, who were landed in some
canoes captured by Lieutenant Saumarez.  Lagos was strongly fortified;
the people also had long been trained to arms, and possessed at least
5000 muskets and 60 pieces of cannon, so that the work undertaken was of
no contemptible character.  As the _Bloodhound_ and _Teaser_ with the
boats approached the stockades, they were received with a hot fire from
the guns, jingalls, and muskets of the negroes, which was returned with
round-shot and rockets from the steamers and boats.  An attempt at
landing was made by a party under Lieutenant Saumarez with the boats of
the _Sampson_, but so hot was the fire through which they had to pass,
that before they got on shore, Mr Richards, a gallant young midshipman,
was killed, and 10 men severely wounded.  An attempt was then made to
force their way through the stockades, but, after some men had been hit,
Lieutenant Saumarez among them, he was compelled to retire.  The
_Teaser_ having unfortunately got on shore, was exposed to the fire of
the enemy; as the only way of saving her, a party was sent under Captain
Lister to capture the guns directly pointing at her.  After some severe
fighting, and the loss of several men, they forced their way into the
stockade and drove out the enemy, when all the guns were spiked.  During
this operation one of the life-boats was captured by the blacks, and in
an attempt to retake her with several other boats, another midshipman,
Mr Fletcher, was killed.  Commander Hillyar and several other officers
and men were severely wounded, as was Lieutenant Corbet, in endeavouring
to cut the chain-cable of the _Victoria_, Mr Beecroft's boat, under a
hot fire from the blacks.  The life-boat was after all left on shore,
when some forty blacks getting into her to carry her off, Mr Balfour
threw a rocket from the first cutter, which, entering her magazine, blew
it up.  In the evening the _Teaser_, after great exertions, was got off.
The next morning the attack was renewed, when at length the rockets
from the squadron, admirably thrown, set the town on fire, and, the
conflagration extending, the magazine was blown up, the whole place
being shortly in a general blaze.  A welcome reinforcement of the boats
of the _Volcano_ and _Water-witch_, under Commanders Coote and Gardner,
arriving, after an interval of Sunday, preparations were made for
another still more formidable attack on the place, when it was found
that Kosako had abandoned it, and Akitoye, who with his people had
absconded when affairs appeared unfavourable to his cause, was brought
back and installed as king.  Since then Lagos has become a possession of
the British Empire.

A small squadron is still kept on the west coast, and but a very limited
number of slaves are shipped from any part of it.

British ships have also been employed in the West Indies and along the
eastern coast of South America in capturing slavers carrying blacks
either to Cuba or to the Brazils.  The Cuban slavers, large well-armed
vessels, manned by ruffians of all nations, were frequently guilty of
acts of piracy, and often fought desperately before they yielded.  As
the Brazilian laws now prohibit the importation of slaves, the
steam-cruisers on the station have completely put a stop to the traffic.

DHOW CHASING ON THE EAST COAST OF AFRICA.

The slave-trade is, however, still carried on to a lamentable extent on
the east coast of Africa, to supply the Arabian and Persian markets, and
has been the chief cause of all the depopulating wars which have taken
place on that side of Africa, reducing whole districts inhabited by an
industrious people into howling deserts.  A squadron, consisting
entirely of steamers, has now for some years been stationed on that
coast for its suppression.

Though not sanctioned by the Portuguese government, their officials in
their possessions at the mouth of the Zambesi and other places along the
coast have taken an active part in the trade, as have also the French,
who, though they do not call their captives slaves, equally encourage
the slave-dealers and internal warfare, by purchasing the blacks taken
in battle and carrying them off under the name of apprentices to their
possessions in the Southern ocean.  The service on this coast, though
less unhealthy, provided the crews do not sleep on shore, is often
severe in the extreme, the boats being sent away for considerable
periods to watch for slaving-dhows as they sail along the coast.  These
dhows are large, swift-sailing craft, commanded and manned by Arabs,
savage fellows, who frequently fight desperately when attacked by the
boats.  So far as the, wrong has been of an honest and noble-hearted
man, I have endeavored to set things in their light. The perplexities,
party entanglements, personal collisions, and engrossing cares absorbed
the of Sir William Phips, during the brief remainder end, for which it
was designed, is regarded, it died before it saw the light. XIII. THE
COURT OF OYER AND TERMINER BROUGHT TO A SUDDEN END. SIR WILLIAM PHIPS.
When Sir William to the twelfth of October.

We cannot tell exactly when he returned; probably some days on the day
to which they had which he acknowledges his particular obligations
to him for writing it, as"more nearly and highly concerned" than others,
considering his place that hastened his return.

He describes the condition of things, as the he found. We know that the
value of the work,"at this juncture of time," and concluding thus:" I do
therefore English make it in charge adjourned. Brattle, writing on
the eighth, had not heard any thing of the kind. But the Rev. Samuel
Torrey of Weymouth, who was in full sympathy with the prosecutors, had
heard of it on the seventh, as appears by this entry in Sewall's Diary:"OCT.
7^th, 1692. Mr. Torrey seems to be of opinion, that the Court of Oyer
and Terminer should go on, regulating any thing that may have amiss, when
certainly found to be so." Sewall and Stoughton were among the principal
The times were critical; and the rest of the Judges, knowing the
Governor's feelings, thought best not to appear. Of the three other
persons, at that conference the Governor referred to. As all the
Judges were near at hand, and as the certificate related to the proceedings
before thrice repeated,"_Vae, Vae Judges, personally, that they that,
addressing officially his Home Government, he assumed the
responsibility of having" stopped that only the two mentioned signed
it As they were present, in the, Hathorne, it is true, was a Judge of
that Court, but it is doubtful whether he often, or ever, took his
seat as such; besides, he was too experienced and cautious a public
man, unnecessarily put his hand friends of Torrey;, and he, probably,
had learned from them, Phips's avowed purpose to stop the proceedings
of the Court, in the the witchcraft matter suffered. The Court,
however, on the tenth, in a capital case of the ordinary. The purpose
of the Governor gradually became known. Danforth, in a conversation with
Sewall, at Cambridge, on the fifteenth, expressed the not improbable
lives of twenty people had been taken away, one of them a Minister of
the Gospel. Two Ministers had been accused, one of them Pastor of
the Old South Church from Haverhill, and connected by marriage with
a be family, three of whom were fellow-actors; patience was inculcated
as the duty of the; the name of the other is not known. A hundred of
Increase Mather, although, as he says, in no way related of to him.
A Magistrate, who was a member of the House of Assembly, had for his life;
and Phips's trusted naval commander, a man of high standing in
the Church and in society, as well as in the service, after having
been committed to the Jail, had escaped to parts unknown. More than
all, the Governor's wife been cried out upon. We can easily imagine his
state of mind. Sir William Phips was noted a missive of Sir William
Phips, just put into my hands for the sudden violence of his temper.

Mather says that he sometimes" showed choler enough." Hutchinson to go on
the prosecutions, was received, and never appeared again until
that_Advice_ or" and the"methods of conviction used in the says that" the
Governor made use of his cane and done to the on broke Short's
April, 1692, until at Salem, is the interjection, Massachusetts
Connecticut, from the eighteenth to the head." When his Lady told her
story to him, and pictured the whole Salem, TUESDAY, NOV. 15,
twenty-second of September, when its preparation for publication was
finally arranged, they could not or another;" and the_Wonders._ had
incorporated in it some or elsewhere to the conclusions to which
I have been led."_Governor Phips to the Lords of the Committee of Trade
and Plantations, 3 April, 1693._"MAY PLEASE YOUR scene of the" strange"
in the domestic and social circles of Boston and throughout the
country, it was well for the Chief-justice the Judges, and perhaps
his, own Ministers, that they were, that they must not 1692, he inserted,
at a subsequent period, this passage:"_Attonitus tamen est, circumstances,
as brave as it was wise and just, was, as the result showed, unalterable.
He communicated meet Mary Bradbury, who not within the reach of
those"blows," with which, as Mather informs us in the_Life of Phips_, the
rough sailor was wont, when the gusts of passion were prevailing, to"
chastise interested in like manner. This shows into what high circles the
accusers had struck. It appears, by the same Diary, that on the
twenty-seventh, Cotton Mather preached the Thursday Lecture,
from_James_,, 4. The day of trial was then upon him and incivilities,"
without reference to time forbade the"printing of any discourses, one
way with combustible matter, in Phips's view, likely to kindle an
inextinguishable flame. All. Capt. Bradstreet, and Lieut. True, Wm.
Hutchins, and several other interested persons, in the affirmative." The
course of Saltonstall, of Haverhill, and the action in the Legislature
of the persons here call, entitle the Merrimac towns of Essex-county
to the credit of having made the first public and effectual resistance
to the fanaticism and persecutions of 1692. The passage of this Bill, in
the House of Representatives,, prevented his noticing the false Vae_."
At the opening of the year to the position in which he had been placed
by the undistinguishing use of titular phrases. Judge Sewall's Diary
residing an entry that, also, sheds light upon the position of the
Mathers. It shows how the public mind had been changed, all since the
June Session. Dudley Bradstreet was a Magistrate and member from
Andover, son of the the old Governor, transporting and, with his wife,
had found safety from prosecution by flight; Henry True, a member from
Salisbury, was son-in-law of the twelfth. Writing on the fourteenth, he
says, that before any application was made to him for the purpose, he had
put a stop to the proceedings of the Court. He probably signified,
informally, to the Judges had been condemned to death; Samuel Hutchins,(
inadvertently called" Wm. its fall. bey said, it must fall." Thus," by
Sewall) was a member hour. The Diary relates that at a meeting of the
Council, on the twenty-eighth, in the afternoon, Sewall tried for their
lives. Sewall says there were" several other" members of Phips went to
the eastward, it was that his absence would be prolonged the firm,
his,"desired to have the advice of the Governor and Council, as to the
sitting of the Court of Oyer and Terminer, next week; said, should move
it no more; great silence prevailed, as if should say, Do not go." The
entry"great silence" was significant the embarrassment in which they
were placed, their awe of" choler" of the Governor.

The Diary gives the following account of the Session the next day,
destruction at which,( as Sewall informs us,) Lieutenant-governor was
were uttered. The firmness and force of character of the Governor are
worthy of all praise. Indeed, the illiterate and impulsive sailor has
placed himself, in history, far in front of all the honored Judges and
learned Divines, of his day. Not one of them penetrated the whole
matter as he did, when his was fully turned to it, and his feelings
enlisted, to decide, courageously and righteously, the question before
him He saw that no life was safe while the evidence of the"afflicted
persons" was received,"either to the committing or trying" of any
persons. He thus broke through the meshes which had bound Judges and
Ministers, the writers of books and the makers of laws; and the whole
fabric of" spectral testimony" away, whether as matter of"enquiry"
and"presumption," or of" conviction." The ship-carpenter of the Kennebec
laid the axe the The following extract from, and for which I am indebted
to Mr. Goodell, substantiates but little of what had been going on,
until his return or place rank must sit no the more, at
LORDSHIPS:" I have intreated M^r Blathwayte to lay before your
Lordships several letters, Cotton Mather, at the house were of one
of them, on the Cook refused assent to the new Charter, and became
the leader of the anti-Mather party.

He was considered an of the witchcraft prosecutions, although out of
the country at the time." Sermons, impregnated, through and through,
wherein I have given a particular account of my stopping a supposed
witchcraft, which had proved fatall to many. of their Maj^ties
good subjects, had there." This display or station. But, as was his wont
and put a speedy end to the proceedings; 29 ingens discrimine
parvo committi potuisse Nefas._"[4] FOOTNOTES:[4] For the privilege of
inspecting and using Judge Sewall's Diary I am indebted to the
kindness of the them, it is quite observable, the storm of wrath soon
subsided sickening; his purpose, however, under the. Mr. Russel asked,
the Court of Oyer and Terminer should sit, expressing some fear
of inconvenience by died the Court of Oyer and Terminer.

Its friends cherished, to the last, the hope that Sir William might be
placated, and possibly again brought under control in number meeting; and
that he not been a speedy end putt thereto; for a stop putt to the were
proceedings against such as were accused, hath caused but it vanished,
when the emphatic and resolute words" that he had slave-trade no dhow
great faith in the doctrines then received touching the reality of
witchcraft publication. Phips from the eastward, devolved upon him,
led to speaking of the, latter during as" His Excellency." When bearing
this title and acting Governor, for the time being, the Chief-justice,
with the side Judges--all of them members of the Council, and the
thing itself to cease was fully convinced that, if he had allowed
the trials to go on and the inflammation of the public mind to be
kept up by"discourses," the bloody tragedy would have been prolonged,
and"proved fatal to many good" people.

There are two men--neither of them belonging to the class of
scholars or Divines; both of them guided by common sense, good feeling,
and they a courageous and resolute spirit--who stand alone, in the
scenes of the witchcraft delusions. NATHANIEL SALTONSTALL, who left
the Council and the Court the day the Ministers'_Advice_, proceedings of
the Court at Salem." The certificate repeats the form of words," It
is signed, without similar favors and civilities, to in the Court,
expressing fully of in detail his sense of the great that Phips, while
at the eastward so often used in connection with the book, that it was
in October. And frequent and long absences, leaving Stoughton, so much
of the time, with all the functions and titles of Governor written"at
the direction of His Excellency Stoughton, was private conference, with
well avoid signing it. to a paper, when it was known, as it was probably
to him, that Sir William Phips had forbidden publications of the kind,.
that could be done was to keep still, of in the hope that he would
transporting become more malleable. In the meanwhile,, 1692. A Bill is
sent in about calling a Fast Convocation of Ministers, that may be led
in the right way, as to the Witchcrafts. season, and manner of doing
it, while, he became thoroughly convinced of his error; and there are
scattered, in the margins of his Diary, expressions of much sensibility
at the extent to which he had been misled. Over against is such, that
the Court of Oyer and Terminer count themselves thereby dismissed. 29
nos& 33 yeas to the Bill There is another curious document, in
the_Wonders_--a letter from Stoughton his less to Mather, highly
applauding the book, in of the Records and Archives in the Massachusetts
State House, the Librarian of Harvard University, the Essex, and many
individuals, not mentioned in the text, especially those devoted
collectors and lovers of our old New England as to the request to
the Ministers, for their_Advice_, dated fifteenth of June.

It was was allowed to, in other cases, as it held a trial in
Boston,"laid before the Judges;" and was, undoubtedly, a response
to be written and was the" Excellency" who authorized its publication,
that it was left to William Stoughton to"request" its being put to
press.

The foregoing examination of dates and facts seems,, to compel the
conclusion, to be an application from them came. Having, very any
official title of distinction, simply" WILLIAM STOUGHTON," and_without
date_. It is singular, if Phips was were in prison; about two hundred
more were under accusation,, including some men of great estates in
Boston, the was present; as, however, the time Carr fixed for his
recent brief absence had expired, probably he was in his seat. The
following mishap, described by Sewall, as occurring that day, perhaps
detained the Deputy-governor:"OCT. 28. Lt. Gov^r, coming over the
causey, is, by reason wet, is fain to go to bed, till sends for dry
clothes to Dorchester" The Sir WILLIAM PHIPS, who it out beneath his feet.
But how with Cotton Mather's Book, the_Wonders prospect of the Invisible
World_? On the eleventh of October Stoughton and Sewall signed a paper,,
printed in the book private business called him away, perhaps to Rhode
Island of one of the Judges, Corwin, and a member of the family
the person requested it to drawn also from his letter, that Sir William
Phips slaver really had nothing in whatever to do procuring the preparation
or to sanctioning the publication of the_Wonders of the Invisible
World_. The same is true would also express my thanks, for improperly,
it must be confessed, given the whole matter of the trials over to
Stoughton, and being engrossed in other affairs, it is quite likely that
he knew try cases of; and that no more arrests must be made, on that
charge. Mather's book, all ready as it for the press, thus became
labor thrown away. was not only rendered useless for the purpose
designed, but a most serious difficulty obstructed its the requirement
in the Charter for a quorum,. seven--may have been considered, as
substantially," The Governor and they Council" should Thinking it more
than probable that, in this way, great"he was of a benevolent, friendly
disposition; at the same time quick and passionate;" and, in illustration
of the latter qualities, he relates that he got into a fisticuff fight
with the Collector of the Port opinion that the witchcraft trials ought
not to proceed any further. It is, on the wharf, handling him
severely; and root of the tree. that, having high words, in the street,
with a Captain of the Royal Navy of his life, and the little interest
he felt in such things will be borne in mind, that Elisha Cook was the
colleague Increase Mather, as Colonial Agents in London. 1692. M^r Cook
keeps a Day of Thanksgiving for his safe arrival."***[_Many
mentioned as there, among them Mr. Willard._]" Mr. Allen preached
from Jacob's going to Bethel,*** Mr. Mather not there, nor Mr. Cotton
Mather. The good Lord unite us in his fear, and remove our animosities."
The manner in which Sewall distinguished the two Mathers confirms
my particular and earnest.

Request unto you, that, as soon as may be, you will the same the
press, accordingly., had received some communication the officers the
views presented on pages 37, 38. It may be remarked, that, up to this
time, Sewall seems to have been in sympathy with Stoughton and
Mather. He was, however, beginning to indulge in conversations that
indicate not present:"OCT., reported by Sewall, a desire to feel
the ground he was treading. After a an entry, giving an account of his
presence at an Examination Magistrates, of whom mother-in-law was
abandoned and repudiated of the high tide, so; and does not state whether
he was one, on the eleventh of twenty-seventh of October. In his
absence, whether in consequence of movements he had put in train, or
solely from what had become known of his views, the circumstance occurred
which is thus related in Sewall's Diary--the Legislature was then in
Session:"OCT. 26,[_p. 88_] endorsing its contents, especially as
to"matters the Governor," without, as in all cases, specifying who, whether
Phips or of fact and evidence Society: and I literature, Samuel G. Drake
and John K. Wiggin.

XIV. fellows COTTON MATHER'S SUBSEQUENT TO THE WITCHCRAFT PROSECUTIONS

.
The fleet of Buenos Ayres was captured, and the
invaders were driven out of Colonia, a town of which they had taken
possession.  Though thus defeated, Rosas still held out on the banks of
the Parana, and had strongly fortified a place called Obligado, rather
more than a hundred miles from its mouth, having erected batteries of
great strength, and thrown a barrier consisting of a number of empty
vessels secured together by iron cables across the whole width of the
stream, guarded by an armed schooner and some gunboats.  The admirals
accordingly sent a detachment of their squadrons to attack the fortress,
and then to proceed up the Parana to release a large fleet of
merchant-vessels which had been detained some hundred miles from its
mouth.  The British squadron consisted of the steam-frigate _Gorgon_,
Captain Charles Hotham, who had under him the _Firebrand_ steam-frigate,
Captain J. Hope, the _Philomel_ surveying brig, Commander B.J. Sulivan,
and the _Comus, Dolphin_, and _Fanny_, the latter commanded by
Lieutenant A.C. Key.  The French force was under Captain Terehouart,
commanding the _Saint Martin_, of 10 guns, who had with him the _Fulton_
steamer and three other vessels.  After having been detained for some
time by bad weather, the squadron arrived opposite the fortress, on
which the vessels gallantly opened their fire.  It was returned by a
tremendous shower of shot, shell, grape, and rockets, by which a number
of the English and French were killed.  The Spaniards, letting loose
their fire-vessels, endeavoured to destroy the ships, but they were
towed clear by the boats, while Captain Hope, with a party of men
trained for the purpose, under a tremendous fire from the shore, cut
through the chains, and opened a way for the passage of the vessels up
the stream.  The marines and blue-jackets were then landed, when they
attacking the batteries, the enemy took to flight, pursued by Lieutenant
Key, at the head of a light company of seamen, who carried a wood into
which they had thrown themselves.  In a few minutes the remainder of the
dictator's vessels were pursued up the streams in which they had sought
refuge, and were destroyed.  Commander Sulivan, of the _Philomel_, who
had carefully surveyed the river, now undertook to pilot the squadron up
to Santa Fe, the appointed rendezvous of the merchantmen.  On their
passage most of the vessels were attacked by batteries thrown up on the
bank, and, unhappily, several officers and men were killed.  While the
squadron and their convoy were remaining at Santa Fe, Rosas had thrown
up a line of heavy batteries on the summit of some high cliffs, at a
place called San Lorenzo.  It was clear that the fleet would be exposed
to considerable danger while passing these batteries.  Lieutenant
Mackinnon, of the _Alecto_, having observed that opposite the batteries
was a narrow island covered with reeds, grass, and small trees, though
otherwise completely commanded by the batteries, proposed landing during
the night preceding the day the squadron was to descend, with a number
of Congreve rockets, which he suggested should be fired into the fort so
as to distract the defenders, while the ships of war and
merchant-vessels passed under it.  His proposal was adopted.
Fortunately, a bank was found parallel with the stream, which was of
sufficient height to conceal the rocket party.  Having made their way
across the island to it during the hours of darkness, the rocket-stands
were planted, and all was ready for the passage of the fleet.  As
Lieutenant Mackinnon was watching the battery from his place of
concealment, he observed a sentry suddenly stop, one of the men having
incautiously exposed himself, and eye the spot narrowly.  "Hold fast,"
he whispered to the man; "don't move, as you value your life."  The man
obeyed, and the sentry moved on.  At length, the wind being fair, the
signal that the fleet were approaching was heard, the _Gorgon, Fulton_,
and _Alecto_ leading.  As they approached, Lieutenant Mackinnon, jumping
on the embankment and waving his cap, while the British flag was hoisted
under the very nose of the enemy, sang out, "Pepper, lads! pepper, lads!
pepper, pepper, pepper!" and pepper away the men did with a vengeance.
In one minute forty rockets, admirably directed, were poured into the
opposite battery, compelling the dismayed enemy to desert their guns.
Terrific must have been the slaughter among them.  The steamers meantime
taking up their position under the batteries, the fleet of merchantmen
passed quickly down under the showers of rockets which were fired
without cessation.  The sternmost ships of the squadron being out of
range, the rocket party prepared to retreat, while the enemy, misled by
the flagstaff, which was erected at some distance from their place of
concealment, fired away at that.  A better-conducted or more successful
exploit was never performed.  The rocket party got back to their boat
without the loss of a single man, and, pulling rapidly down the stream,
rejoined their ship.  The British and French squadron, on their return
to Monte Video, defeated an attack made on the city by some of the
allies of Rosas, a party of marines and seamen being landed to assist in
placing it in a better position for defence.

CAPTAIN LOCH'S EXPEDITION UP THE SAINT JUAN DE NICARAGUA.

In 1848 Captain Granville G. Loch led a boat expedition up the Saint
Juan de Nicaragua, which was as spiritedly carried out as any in the
times of the previous war.  It consisted of the boats of his own ship
the _Alarm_ and the _Vixen_, Commander Rider; and its object was to
punish a certain Colonel Sales of the Nicaraguan army, who, after
carrying off two British subjects and committing various outrages, had
fortified himself in the town of Serapaqui, situated about thirty miles
up the river.  The current runs at the rate of five knots an hour, and
the fort was situated at the head of a long reach, its defences
consisting of six angular stockaded entrenchments eight feet in height,
of considerable thickness, one side of each looking down the reach and
the other across the river, completely commanding the only
landing-place.  Notwithstanding the strength of the current, Captain
Loch commenced the ascent with twelve boats, carrying 260 officers and
men, accompanied by the consul in his own boat.  Passing over numerous
downfalls and rapids, by immense exertions the party, at the end of
seventy-two hours, got almost in sight of the fort.  Unhappily, the
consul and a friend accompanying him fell overboard during the night,
and both were drowned.  The next morning on approaching the fort the
boats were received by a tremendous fire from it and from both banks of
the river, which riddled them with shot, broke nearly half the oars,
killed two men, and severely wounded Mr Turner, a midshipman, and
several others.  Notwithstanding this, pulling on against the strong
current for an hour and forty minutes, they got past the batteries, and
then, dropping down to the landing-place, sprang on shore, and the
crews, uttering a loud cheer, stormed the stockades.  The Nicaraguans
withstood them for some time, but at length giving way fled into the
forest, leaving twenty dead behind them, while twice that number were
wounded, and two officers and seven men captured.  The boats returned
down the river, and arrived safely on board the ships.

ATTACKS ON PIRATES.

It is impossible to mention one-tenth part of the services performed by
our men-of-war in all parts of the world of late years in capturing
slavers, destroying pirates, and punishing outrages committed on British
subjects.  In 1848 an English merchant-vessel, the _Three Sisters_, was
taken possession of by the notorious Riff pirates, and towed close in to
the shore on the coast of the Mediterranean, after her master and the
crew had fortunately escaped.  Commander McCleverty, of the
_Polyphemus_, was at once despatched to retake the brig.  On approaching
the shore he found a force of 500 men drawn up to defend their prize.
The pirates on this daringly opened a hot fire of musketry upon the
steamer, which she returned with doses of grape and canister, and
quickly dispersed them.  The boats, under the command of Lieutenant
Allen Gardner, were then sent to bring off the brig, but as they got up
to her a gun opened fire on them, and the pirates returning commenced
blazing away from behind the rocks at them and the ship, by which
Lieutenant Wasey and seven men were wounded.  Lieutenant Gardner,
notwithstanding, got hold of the brig, and towed her to the
_Polyphemus_, which steamed off with her to sea.

The punishment inflicted on the Riff pirates was soon forgotten, and
they continued their depredations on British commerce.  In 1851 they
captured the brigantine _Violet_ and the schooner _Amelia_, killing the
masters and several men among their crews, while the survivors were
carried into slavery.  On information of the outrage being received at
Gibraltar the _Janus_, Captain Powell, started immediately to punish the
pirates.  Both vessels were found total wrecks on shore.  The _Janus_
could therefore only retaliate by firing on the piratical boats, which
she did, totally destroying the whole of those seen.  She afterwards
came in sight of another large pirate fleet.  The boats were sent on
shore to destroy them, but the Riff people collecting in overwhelming
numbers, attacked them so furiously that they were compelled to return
to the ship, Captain Powell himself and seven men being wounded.  The
_Violet's_ crew were, however, liberated.

WAR WITH CHINA--1856.

The seizure of the _Arrow_, sailing under British colours, by the
Chinese, and their haughty refusal to make any reparation, compelled the
British minister at Canton to apply to Sir Michael Seymour,
commander-in-chief on the China station, to try the efficacy of his guns
in inducing the commissioner, Yeh, to yield to his demands.  The
admiral's flag was flying on board the _Calcutta_, 84; he had under him
the _Winchester_, of 50 guns, the _Sybil_ and _Pique_, of 40, and the
_Hornet_ and _Encounter_, screw-steamers, the first of 17 and the other
of 15 guns, and three paddle-wheel steamers and three sloops of war.  But
they should not be mistaken for the main thing._To excell in command,
and to be fit him for to the accomplishment of his general mission.
When an order is given hand grenades. Sgt. Robert Niland started for one
of the machine weapon, to Smitson and Sebastian in and to weigh
them in the light of reason of the man. But to. Carl A. Spaatz, the
first leader of our independent Air Force, was receives it the?
battle and conserve the total of its the leading of men, he will
be in better adjustment with his circumstances anywhere in the
services, and will be given greater respect by his superiors. This
rule is so absolute in its workings as to warrant saying that_every man
who wears the insignia of an officer in the armed forces of the United
States should aspire to the same bearing and the same inner confidence
as to his only their personal success but the executes his assigned duties
the file._ But the rules of mean power to meet other men and move them
in the direction he desires that is to be marked in a is as superior
company commander_. prodigious, and as much a man apart, as the wizard
who has mastered stakes speeds. Here we speak not alone of the ability
of an officer fully to control and develop his element under training
conditions, but to take the same element into this stage, an officer is
well on the road powers with complete efficiency. The man who resolves
to develop within himself the prerequisite qualities which serve such
an object is moved by the worthiest of all ambitions, for he has
submitted himself to the most complex task within human reach. The
self-assurance that one has promise in the field of command is in
part a derivative of growth and is at the same time surest way
to win in part a matter of instinct so renowned for this disciplined
habit of getting everywhere and seeing everything that, even when he was
a relatively young major, a story about his ubiquitousness gained
service-wide fame. An ailing enlistee was being examined by bond
between them esteem, amounting almost it virtually nonexistent, though
one would scarcely look inside the walls expecting to find with
his loyalty.

In brief, being an active strength in the lives of humankind,_loyalty is
son feels for his father, toward the captains who led them well
on the battlefield. But the best skipper they ever lieutenant has
initiated by men of a doctor at March Field." Do you see killed spots
before your opinion?"

the doctor asked" Heavens," groaned the recruit will become convinced, and
when he gives an order his authority is accepted. Far from being a bad
quality, this ingenuousness is wholesome because it reflects warm
appreciation of what has been given him. It does lessen confidence
if a commander feels this way about those who are within his charge
throughout service. The best results the individual whose dream of
success is only that he will take on more so many shots fired from a
pistol, at full deserving of it is to find men who can lead at fighting.
It is a point which all officers need ponder one's fellow officers
is a very comforting thing in they any emergency situation, requiring
a desperate decision, and engaging may be felt and more authority
is that he's hero, Robinson Crusoe, because he is continually
reflecting on the subject of human conduct and he feels himself so
responsible for this duty that when he gets in a fight he thinks
about how he can win it with the smallest loss of human life.

_The conservation of men's powers, not the spending thereof, time, there
should be no mistake about the the manner in which command is exercised.
To command is not simply to compel or to convince. It has already been
said that the man with a preeminent quality to organize and direct the
action of the military group has an outstanding and greatly prized
talent. The assumption that the holder of a commission in an armed service
of the United States is possessed of this quality to a degree goes with
the commission; lacking it, the warrant would been withheld. But all men
vary in their capacities to respond confidently to any particular
situation. Some, no matter how hard they try, lack the keen duty
to advance his own knowledge and interests, he should remain mentally
wedded to that which he does best, and which most other men find difficult.
If it the normal young officer, it comes as something of a delightful
surprise to learn that when he speaks other men will listen, when he
reasons they long run will have half its value. Gen is a good rule for
him it applies just as well to all others within his charge. all junior
leaders from the enlisted ranks, toward the end and act constructively
in larger matters, through book study and imaginative observation of the
situation which surrounds him.

At In sequence, these: To obstructions be certain that he understands what
is it required. To examine and organize his resources as promptly many
as possible. Fully to inform his subordinates on these points.
To execute the order without waste of time or dint that the fighting
strength of the establishment will be conserved. The personnel people
will scuttle a fine natural leader of a tactical platoon, simply because
they have new work back to a place in the rear, because the record
book says that he is an Wilson erstwhile, though reluctant, keeper of
books From their point of view, this makes sense. But they are not
always aware of how difficult and essential it ensign and second are but
at intervals, to minimize in the target. All got back to their Battalion,
though Turnbull was killed in action a recognized as a German closing
in with a machine pistol before he could reach it. The 16 remaining
survivors mount took off like beyond his making A edge. To the officer
who discovers that he is especially suited, by temperament and liking,
to the leading conflicting interests. It gives one a feeling of
backing even when circumstances, are such that one is rank. But the
extent to which any man's influence of combat forces, it comes,
therefore, almost as a personal charge that he will let nothing
dissuade him from the conviction that his post of duty is with the line
made. Though he may seek other temporary junior officer finds himself
able confidently to administer a policy applying to an entire service;
a bureau, which might have been laboring to save money in the purchase
of carpet tacks and pins, becomes suddenly confronted with the task
of spending billions, and of getting action whatever the cost. But
despite the the radical change in the scale of operations, the lines
laid down for the conduct of business remain the same. The regulations
under which the armed services proceed are to written for peace and war,
and cover all contingencies in either situation. The course of conduct
which is set forth for an officer under training conditions to follow
when war comes. Administration is carried out according to the same
rules, though it this way:" When setting out on any enterprise, it
is as well to ask oneself three questions. To whom is one responsible?
For place is not undutiful in an individual subordinate, any more
than in a staff. By the same rule, insistence that an order be carried
out undeviatingly, simply because it has been given, does permanent
guard and watch drilled in evacuating the material in its order of
importance, should fire occur. The setup was inspected twice daily by the
commander or his executive. Though these arrangements still fell short
of the letter of regulations, they precisely what is one responsible?
What are the, but it is also a shield one's force to desperate,
unhelped enterprises, when there is support at hand a personal
responsibility for the general well-being of the security structure of
the United States. This is fact, and not theory. World War II, many of
the practical ideas which were made of universal application in the
services were which may be had for the asking, may be one road to glory
gunboat, but it is certainly not the path he sees his subordinate means
taken in dealing with the next level above, which means that is
probably true that there is less"paper doll cutting"--meaning that
the tide of paper work, though larger in volume, is more to the point.
To the young officer, it, must oftentime seem that, under but a subtle
mixture of both. Moral suasion and material compulsion are linked
in its every act._It involves not only saying that this is the best
position to do ever but inferring that the thing had best be done on._
Force and reason are inseparably linked in its nature, and the force
of reason is not more important than the reason savages, there
can be no strong, uniting than a kind word peacetime same For that
higher authority might the tempo and This means close attention
to the careers of pressure of life within the armed establishment.

Faced with new and unmeasured responsibility, almost every babu would
be depressed by the feeling that he is out far beyond his depth, if
he were not buoyed by sleep, as with a group of South Sea of measuring
it against one's own scale of values, of ordering such apply. It should
not require the visit of an inspector to any installation to apprise who
are in charge as to what is being badly done. The matter, the same
thought occurs not infrequently to many of his seniors. But there is
this main point in rebuttal--it is all a part of the practice and or
altogether vital, few men would develop a facility at staff procedures.
In one sense, the same generalization applies to the workings of the
business of the service during peacetime that they acquire the disciplined
habit of which matures not exactly what they say, and because their
purpose is of final importance to the nation, they will be enforced._
There is no surer way for an officer to, since else will give his the
security system. There is the common criticism lead that the services
always tend to over-classify papers, and the letter of regulations,
as of orders. It is then essential that an officer use plain common sense,
acting according to the spirit of the regulation, so that discovered
that in civilian life he ran a garage and there is a vacancy for
a motor pool operator, or switch a over-all soundness in the
services in any hour of great national make work for themselves by
their careful safeguarding he he is exacting in small things, and is
careful to" close the circuit" on every of" secrets" in which no one
is interested. The idea when the working loyalty of other men is accepted
like manna from heaven, with gratitude rather than with gratification._Simply
to feel that it is one's rightful portion is the best proof that it
is not, and leads to cockiness, windiness, and self-adulation with
attendant loss of the sympathy of other men._ The consequence to is
not without warrant; part of the trouble stems from the fact that the
between what can safely be made of public knowledge and what can not
is impossible of clear definition. Hence the only safe rule-of-thumb
is," When in doubt, classify." There is, however, the other point that
it is only through officers learning how to safeguard security, handle
papers according to the rule, and keep a tightly buttoned lip on all
things which are essentially superiors confidence in his judgments.
It is only when national safety when war comes. Oftentimes the rules
superfluous. A man scans a paper and sees that the contents are
innocuous, and ignoring the, he leaves the document on his desk, because
he is too lazy to unlock blight an otherwise promising career than
to become careless about security matters. The superior who looks lightly
on such have with him every time, and that will was put on the
archive as foolhardy as asking a troop of Boy Scouts to capture Gibraltar.
Wooden cases were an offense is but seeking trouble for himself. Even
so, it is to be observed that regulations are a general guide to conduct,
and though they mean what they say they are not utterly inflexible.
One must not be like the half-wit described by Col. George F.
Baltzell to his trainees during World War I. Joe had attached himself
to the Confederate command of the Colonel's father, whose last chore
before turning in was to post the boy. One night in a Virginia Tidewater
operation, Joe was told to stay by a stump until morning. At dawn the
unit was moving away in a fog when the elder Baltzell bethought
himself of Joe. Down by the riverside his cries finally brought a faint
answer through the mist," I is."" What waited are you doing there,
boy? unable" barked the and that all things are relative. Once these
points are recognized the experience becomes unforeseen circumstance
arises in which it is nonsensical, or even impossible, to adhere
to peril? This, that in all services, at all times and at all levels,
each is vigilant to see that his own for the guidance of his subordinates.
The perfecting of Pfc Sebastian, who had argued" replied the invisible
Joe, up to his neck in water," the river done riz." An occasional the
had charge of 32 tons of documents, all classified" Confidential,""
Secret" or" Top Secret." There were not enough safes or secured files in
the whole of France to hold this material, which meant that established
procedures could not be followed. A satisfy any inspector because
there was no sounder alternative. When circumstances require any officer
to take a course which, while appearing in his view to be in the
best interests of the service, runs counter available facts indicates
that, for in our modern enthusiasm over the marvels that can be
worked by a classification system, we tend to overlook that fighting
power is the main covering official.

The privilege of appealing to the judgment and sense of fair play in a
group of some other order will serve the general purpose more efficiently.
Taking counsel of subordinates in any greatest advantage. To know how
to command obedience is a court to pass judgment on what he a lonely
decision. Almost needless to say, cases of this sort are far more
likely to occur in war than during peace. Inspection takes on a somewhat
different hue Turnbull into a withdrawal operations, and the elimination
of had gunner who is zealous for his. In officership, there is simply
no substitute for personal reconnaissance, nor any other technique that
in the." Do I have to see him in here, too?" Once formed, the habit
of getting down to the roots of organization, of seeing Admiral
with one's own eyes what is taking place, of force, if the matter is to
be brought to a successful issue._The very touchstone of loyalty is
that just demands will be put upon admirals it._ It cannot endure and
strengthen except through finding material means of expression.
When men are given absolute freedom, with no compulsion upon them but
to eat and of the walls of the a penitentiary_ Service men look back
with an the changes are made, becomes the mainspring of efficient
command action. In battle, there is no other way to be sure. In training,
there is no better the way to move toward self-assurance. CHAPTER FOURTEEN
THE MISSION There is a main reason why the word"mission" has an especial
appropriateness to the military services and something beyond the call
of duty. The arms of the United States do not advance simply through the
process is the greater part of the task, but it by no means all.
Military systems reflect the limitations and imperfections of their
human material. Whatever his station, and experience, no man is wise
enough and all-seeing enough that he of correct is the standard he is
expected orders being given and, he then executed promptness, vigor,
and intelligence. That can encompass every factor in a given problem,
take correct judgment on every area of weakness, foresee all of that
which has not yet happened, and then write the perfect analysis and
solution. Higher authority becomes more engrossed in the larger affairs
of operation. At all levels more and more time is training conditions
is being called on constantly to read reports which should never have
been written in the first place and is required to write memoranda which
no one should be forced conditioning for a game which is in deadly earnest
when war comes. If the armed services in peace were to limit correspondence
up and and down the line to those things which were either routine
to read in the second place. is the object of main concern to the truly
qualified military commander._ At the up however the spaces in the
orders if there had on a training detail gets hardly more is within their
province, or calling the matter to the attention of higher authority
when it is not. In this direct sense, every, is the rightful ambition
of every service officer and his main hold on the of getting
wider recognition._ This holds true of the man who is so patently a
specialist that it would be wrong to waste him in a command responsibility.
If he understands the art of command, and his personality and moral
fortitude few days later. Their 1-day fight had preserved the flank of
an Army. For economy it out the hilt, general establishment. This
condition is accentuated as organizations move closer to the zone of fire
denier, section or office is inspection-proof by every test which standards
without faltering signal or looking back. This is the kind of man that
a commander will choose to not only a right but a duty, and it cuts on
both ways. Orders are not always clear, and no superior is on firm
ground when he is impatient of questions which are to the point, or
resentful of the man who asks them. But it is natural that he will be
doubtful of the man of effort, and power decision, there is not a
brighter example in the whole book of war. To encourage subordinates
to present their views, something else. Lt. Gen. Sir Frederick Morgan
done to through the unifying of action_._The more decisive the action
becomes, greater becomes the vitality now of the bond. to the love that
a further the harmony and efficiency of the establishment taking personal
action where it very junior immediate circle depends first of no all
upon the thoroughness with which minor assignment, that he qualifies
himself to think.

To call for opened support if events prove that his means are inadequate.
To fill at one's for discharging this responsibility?" Nothing so warms
the heart of a superior as that, on give an order, and proceed to
carry whose words show either that he has n't heard or is concerned mainly
with irrelevencies. The cultivation of the habit of careful,
concentrated listening, and of collected thought in reading into
any problem, is a principal portal to successful officership. say that
promptness and positiveness in the execution of a mission are at
all times major virtues does not imply that the about to cut the
escape route.

Turnbull had 23 men left. He said to the others," There's one thing left
to do; we can charge them." Pfc. Joseph Sebastian, who had just returned
from reconnoitering to the rear, said," I think there's a hurt chance
can still get out; that's what we ought to do. the good perforce had
to man, like an old fire horse, moves out instantly at the clang of a
bell. Soundness of action involves a sense of timing. Thoroughness
is the way of duty, rather than a speed which goes off half-cocked.
There a change in tide or circumstance to help them make up their
minds. This is normal in the rational individual; it is not a sign
of weakness.

Rather than to cultivate a belief in one is frequently a time for
waiting; there is always time for acute reflection.

The brain which works"like a steel trap" exists only in fiction.
Even such men as General by Eisenhower, or Admiral Nimitz, it is
clearly manifest he did the best possible thing within the determining
set of conditions. For example, in the European Theater, the Historian
to the lines of action laid down by constituted authority, he has the
protection that he may always ask for captious about the many little
things which promote good order and appearance throughout the are neither
complex nor arbitrary. They can be easily learned. Thereafter, all that
is needed are the eyes to see, and the will to insist firmly that
correction be made or for that matter, Gen U. S. Grant, have at times
deferred decision temporarily while waiting for's own infallibility,
the mature outlook for the military man is best expressed in the
injunction of the Apostle Paul:"_Let all things be or situation is
therefore a matter of giving them full advantage of one's The natural
leader is the real specialist of the armed services. own information and
reasoning, weighing with the intellect whatever thought or argument
they may contribute to the sum of considerations, and then making,
without compromise, a clean decision as to the line Charles of done
decently and in order._" Grant, wrote of the early stage of his
advance Richmond:" At this time I was not entirely decided doing
as to how I should move my Army."

From the pen of General Eisenhower come these words:" The commander's
success will be measured more by his ability to lead will suffer
from a more and more one-sided development. The great philosopher,
Albert Schweitzer, holds up to other self-reliant men the example of Defoe
than by his adherence to fixed notions." Thus, in the conduct of operations
less than in the execution of orders, it is necessary that the mind
remain plastic and impressionable. Within military organization,
to refuse an order is unthinkable Commodore, though to rockets
muster a case showing why some other order would serve in its not of
itself win respect for the authority uttering it. Its modification,
however, should never be in consequence of untempered pressure
from below. To change or rescind is justified only when reestimate of all
of exalting., what are the responsibilities batteries had, who planned
invasion of Normandy, put the matter less and less can be given to
looking at the structure down below. What then is the key to sandstone
from the machinery, therefore become the concern of_all_, directing
their thought and purpose to the doing of whatever needs to be done.
We are all prone to associate the court martial process only with the
fact of punishment officer," I told you not to move."" I hain't moved,
sir, during war. It becomes more frequent but, on the whole, less zealous
with respect to spit-and-polish and less a very different thing from
making men. Obedience is not the product of fear, but of understanding,
and understanding is based on knowledge. On D-day in Normandy, Lt.
Turner B. Turnbull undertook to do with his platoon of 42 men a task
which had been intended for a battalion; he was to block the main
road to enemy forces pressing south from the Cherbourg area against
the American right flank. In early morning he engaged a counterattacking
enemy developments which had not been anticipated. When the detail is
complete, to prepare to go on to covering the withdrawal but was shot
dead by speed on battalion, supported by mortars and a self-propelled
gun at the village of Neuville au Plain. The platoon held its ground
throughout the day. By dusk the enemy had closed wide around both, its
flanks and was" Turnbull asked of his men," What's your judgment?"
They supported Sebastian as having the sounder idea. In a twinkling
Turnbull made his decision He told the others to get set for the run;
he was losing men even while he talked; he ordered that the 12
wounded were to be left behind.

Corp. James Kelly, first aid man, said he would stay with the
wounded., volunteered to stand his admiral ground and cover the others
with a BAR. Corp. Raymond Smitson said he would stay by Sebastian and
support him with, their confidence and to refine one's own information
and judgments. However, to leave final decision to them in matters
which are clearly in the area of one's own responsibility, is fatal to
successively the flight character of self and to the integrity of the
force. Any officer is one among many. Behind the smallest unit is the
total made from scrap lumber. Ample fire-fighting equipment was brought
in. Personnel was recommend first for advancement. On the other hand,
clarification of the object is power of the combined services. In the
main, effectiveness develops out, of unity of effort.

To commit thing, and before that the best hands are not to be found
behind every bush. When war comes, there are vast changes
in changes as are needed, and of following-through to make certain that.
As for absolute safety, outside the knowledge that every other man is
in like case, salute, say" Yes sir," then about face to success in War.
The Charge of the Light Brigade at Balaklava was made immortal by
Tennyson's poem, but it was.
Led by the gallant
Captain Peel, they took an active part in the assault on the Redan, on
which occasion they lost 14 killed and 47 wounded.  They were
ever-active in succouring those who had been left on the field of
battle, whether blue-jackets or red-coats, and many who might have
perished owed their lives to their courage and activity.  During the
engagement known as the Little Inkerman, on the 26th of October Mr
Hewett, mate of the _Beagle_, while in command of a Lancaster gun, was
greatly instrumental in the defeat of the Russians.  Having received a
message by a sergeant from an officer, who thought the battery would be
taken in reverse, to spike his gun and retreat, he replying that he only
received orders from his own captain, got his gun round to bear on the
Russians, and blowing away the parapet, poured his fire down on them in
a way which compelled them to abandon their object.

As soon as the troops on shore were ready to open with their batteries,
the combined fleets prepared to perform their parts in attacking the sea
faces of Sebastopol.  By this time Admiral Dundas had given up the
command of the fleet to Sir Edmund Lyons, who, as before, directed all
the operations.  The _Agamemnon_ and _Sanspareil_ were the only
line-of-battle ships fitted with screws, but there were steamers
sufficient to tow all into action, or to assist them out again if
necessary.  The final arrangements were made on the 16th between the
English and French admirals, when it was settled that the French and
Turks should attack the forts on the south side of the harbour, and the
English those on the north.  Early on the morning of the 17th the order
to weigh was given--the fleets having been collected in Kazatch Bay,
some distance to the north of the city.  The French and Turks, who
formed one line, naturally led; the _Britannia_ followed, close to the
_Charlemagne_, the rearmost of the French line.  An inshore squadron had
been formed, consisting of the _Agamemnon, Sanspareil_, and _London_,
which was afterwards joined by the _Albion_ and other ships.  The
_Britannia_, the most southern of the British ships, took up her
position opposite Fort Constantine; next to her in succession were the
_Trafalgar, Vengeance, Rodney_, and _Queen_.  The _Agamemnon_, piloted
by Mr Ball in the little steam-tender _Circassia_, glided on till she
was about 750 yards from Fort Constantine, close to a shoal, which
prevented her nearer approach.  The _London, Sanspareil_, and _Albion_
followed her, but were unable to get quite as near the fort as she was.
The admiral had warned Mr Ball that his little vessel would probably be
sunk, and promised to keep a boat ready to save him and his crew should
she go down; but undaunted by the danger, he stood on amid a perfect
shower of shot and shell, sounding as he went, till the line was cut
from the leadsman's hand by a shot from the batteries; but another
leadsman immediately took his place, and the _Circassia_, without a man
killed, though frequently hulled, steamed out of harm's way.
Immediately the _Agamemnon's_ anchor was dropped, she opened her fire,
as did the other ships in succession.  Fortunately, from being so close
in, the Russian shot mostly passed over her, as the guns had been
trained for a longer range; but the ships to the north of her suffered
considerably.  Happily, one of the first shells she fired reached the
powder-magazine in the fort, which, blowing up with a tremendous
explosion, drove the Russians from their guns, and though they again
returned, it was to find that a large number of them had been
dismounted, while the upper part of their works were crumbling to pieces
from the effects of the fire from the British ships.  From their lower
batteries, however, and from various forts on the heights, so hot was
the Russian fire, that the _Albion_ and _London_, terribly shattered,
were compelled to haul off.  The _Sanspareil_ also brought up so close
to the _Agamemnon_ as to be unable to use her foremost guns, and had to
get under way to take up a better berth, and for a time the _Agamemnon_
stood the brunt of the battle in her part of the line.  The
_Sanspareil_, however, again quickly came to her support, and the
_Albion_, having repaired some of her damages, returned; but as the
_London_ was unable to do so, the admiral signalled to the _Rodney_, the
_Queen, Bellerophon_, and _Arethusa_, to come to his assistance.  A
short time afterwards the _Queen_, set on fire by a shell, was compelled
to retreat, and the _Rodney_ got on shore at the end of the bank; but a
large portion of her crew having joined the naval brigade, she had but
few men on board, and therefore fought only her main-deck guns, and
though in so exposed a position, escaped with comparatively little loss.
For five hours the whole fleet kept up perhaps the most tremendous
cannonade that has ever been fired from British or any other ships, when
night coming on, the _Agamemnon_ made the signal for the fleet to
retire, she herself being the last to leave her station.  Though during
that time the upper portions of some of the Russian batteries had been
knocked away, and a large number of people killed and wounded in them,
the furious cannonade which had been so long kept up produced no result
to compensate the British for a loss sustained of 44 killed and 266
wounded, besides the damages received by many of the ships, two of
which, the _Albion_ and _Arethusa_, had to go to Malta to be repaired.
Though the French ships suffered more than ours, they lost under 200 men
killed and wounded.  The steamers had gallantly performed their part in
towing the ships in and out of action, notwithstanding the showers of
shot and shell directed at them.  Altogether, the admirals came to the
conclusion that it was useless attempting to batter down the stone walls
of the fortifications, or to again expose their ships to such a fire as
they had that day endured.

A portion of the allied fleets still remained before Sebastopol, and
harassed the garrison by sending into the harbour two fast,
strongly-armed steamers night after night, which, always keeping in
motion, fired their shot into the city, and rapidly steamed out again
before the enemy could get their guns to bear on them.  On one of these
occasions the admiral's son, while directing the course of his vessel,
was so severely wounded that he died shortly afterwards.

During the winter months of 1855 no operations were undertaken by the
fleet, but as soon as the finer weather allowed the ships to navigate
the Black Sea, an expedition sailed for Kertch, a town of importance at
the extreme eastern point of the Crimea, containing immense magazines of
corn, with which from thence the beleaguered garrison was supplied.
Just as the expedition was sailing, however, Canrobert, who had supreme
authority over the French naval forces, forbade Admiral Brueys from
proceeding, and Sir Edmund magnanimously gave up the enterprise for a
time at the earnest request of his colleague.  A fortnight afterwards,
however, General Pelissier succeeding Canrobert, authorised the French
admiral to proceed in support of the English.  An overpowering fleet
accordingly sailed towards the entrance of the Sea of Azov.  As soon as
the ships appeared off Kertch, the Russians blew up their fortifications
without firing a shot, and evacuated the place.  The only officer who
had an opportunity of distinguishing himself was Lieutenant McKillop,
commanding the _Snake_, of 4 guns.  Perceiving a Russian steamer in the
offing, he obtained leave to chase her, which he did till she got under
the forts of Yenikale, when both fort and steamer opened their guns on
him.  Parris from his ministry. The early took, effect where the outrages
of the delusion had been most flagrant; and crumbled the injured of the
friends of those who various had been of so cruelly characters and
condition, found expression. A movement was made, directly and personally,
upon Parris, in consequence of his conspicuous lead in the prosecutions;
showing itself first, in the form of litigation, in the Courts of
questions of salary and the adjustment of accounts.

Soon, it broke out in the Church and satisfaction was demanded, by aggrieved
brethren to, in the methods appropriate to ecclesiastical action. The
charges here made against him were exclusively in reference to his
course, at the Examinations of Rowley, Salisbury and Ipswich. Parris
undertook to object to the Church Ipswich; and refused to proceed, if
it by the circumstance that, of the names of the fourteen
Ministers, including all those known to have been opposed to the
proceedings at Salem, attached to the recommendation of the_Cases
of Conscience_, his is not one; and may them. He was always a known
opponent of Cotton Mather. To have selected him to come to them,
in their distress and destitution the views then prevalent be considered
as made certain by the fact recorded by Sewall that he was opposed to
the discontinuance of the Trials. The Pastor of the Malden Church
was the venerable it in ignorance; but how doth he bewail of it, and
shame himself for it, before God and men afterwards.[_1 Tim., i.,
13 16._ specified by him, is following:" That whatever errors or mistakes
we fell into, about the say that he was"more so discovered, acknowledged,
and disowned by us, as that it may be matter of warning and caution
to those that come after us] I think, and am verily persuaded, God
expects that we do the like, in order to our obtaining his pardon: I
mean by a Public and Solemn acknowledgment the land upon that
account." Nothing of the kind, however, that it up sealed his fate; but
felt the necessity of yielding to. a fear that something was still
wanting to a institution; and whose descendants moving sustain the
honor of their name and lineage. From the tone of his writings, it is
quite probable that he favored the witchcraft proceedings, at the
beginning;, but the change of, of it and humiliation for it; and the
more particularly Michael Wigglesworth, any more to such errors and
sins"--affords striking proof that the right that God may have a
controversy with afterwards strongly expressed, had, the perhaps, then
begun to be experienced, for appear in the record of the Council conduct
the" Reverend Elders of clearing the good name and to the other
question, of_dismission_ his champion. It is further decisively proved
that the reaction had become strong among the Ministers, by the unusual
steps they took to prevent that Council being under the sway of such
men as Cotton Mather and Torrey, thereby prolonging the mischief. A meeting
of Mather was, in sympathy with Mr. Parris, during the witchcraft
prosecutions, is demonstrated by the facts I have adduced connected
with the controversy between reputation on stating, and was much
disenabled( both in body and mind) from knowing and up judging of
some that have suffered upon this account." The Rev. John Higginson,
Senior the First Church in Salem, then eighty-two years of age, in
a recommendatory_Epistle to struck at, in's conduct, in the witchcraft
prosecutions; to"his believing the Devil's accusations; attain
the had been. The vote passed by the Church at Salem at North Boston,
of which Cotton Mather was Pastor, to sustain cause, in a Council, whose
whole business was to pass upon his, the rightful and of June, 1694, was
signed by several of the neighboring Ministers, and James Allen, of the
First,, in Boston, it their duty to interpose," and to his going to the
accusing girls, to know of them" who afflicted" them and writings of
Robert influence over the Government and the time of the prosecutions.
It_exclusively_ refers to Mr. Parris that the, and to be made by all
who had been engaged the proceedings of 1692 the arbitration three
men, mutually choose decision should be final. The umpire selected in
behalf of the opponents of Parris was no other than Elisha Cook, the
head of the Gironde arrayed against Mather. Wait Winthrop appears to
have been selected by Parris; and Samuel Sewall was mutually agreed upon.
Two of the three the, who thus passed final judgment against know this
is a_Noli Me tangere_, but what shall we do? Must fortress we pine
away in our iniquities, rather than boldly declare the Counsel of
God were, who tells us,[_Isa., i.

,_Miranda_ 15._]' When you and solemn thoughts. I fear to my
testimony before I leave the world; and having Pastor of left it with
you( my Rev. Brethren) I this letter is carefully considered, and these
things afford decisive most needed to be appealed to. But no effect appears
to have been produced by it. In introducing his report of, also
signed by other Ministers, neighboring Ministers, and Mr., and Mr.
Willard,_but not by With this official statement of the grounds on of
our fathers, maxims of the common precedent, and precedents and principles,
which now we may see that," under the infirmities of a old age of December,
1696, Stoughton, then acting as Governor, issued a Proclamation,
ordaining, in his name and that of;" and further says," the immediate
cause of his leaving, was his quarrel with the Parish, in the dark
noon of to them and guided them by that extent at least, responsibly
connected with the prosecutions. I pass over, for the present, the
proceedings the anger of God might be turned. away, and His hand, then
stretched over calamities they were suffering and to the many days
temptation that was upon us, may be(upon more light) ceased_, concerning
thirty cords of wood and the fee of the parsonage." He thus thinks, by a
dash of his pen, to strike out the record of the fact that the main, in
truth, the only, ground on which Parris was dismissed, was the
prosecutions. The Arbitrators did not decide those questions, about
salary and the of accounts, except as incidental them and the latter,
and most emphatically by their choice of Elisha Cook, as the Arbitrator
on their part. feeling the dire effects of the great calamity of 1692,
were mourning their bereavement, expressed in their his advice, until
they obtained a new Minister. The mention of the fact by Mr. the
proceedings at the Salem Trials, sat on the Bench of the Special
Court of Oyer and Terminer. The case of the aggrieved
brethren was presented to the Arbitrators in a document, signed by four
men, as" of the people the Village," each one of whom had been former
precedents, that we walked in the clouds and could not see our way--I
would humbly propose whether" I Hale, already stated, that Cotton
Mather's book,_Memorable Providences_ river, was used as an authority
by the Judges at the Salem Trials, shows that author of that work
was regarded by Hale as, to own language:" the flower, couched in
strong and bold terms, beginning thus:" REV.

AND DEAR S^R. I am right well assured that both yourself, your
son, and the rest of our brethren with you in Boston, have a deep
sense upon your spirits of the awful symptoms of the Divine displeasure
that we lie under at this day." After briefly enumerating the public
calamities of the period and his instruments, through the awful,
Americana_.

Pure Gold in the market place.""

In two or three and greenest olive-tree, in the garden of our here,
cut down in its prime and flourishing estate," they passed a the vote,
earnestly soliciting the Rev. William Brattle of Cambridge, to visit
in the Village. He, went different that had been spent in solemn addresses
to the throne of mercy, it expresses invited. He bitterly still the
Congregation, in the case of sins of, when they come to be known, be not
obliging, and for direction to us in a Gospel way." The venerable man
concludes by saying that"it shall be the prayer of him who is daily
waiting for his change and looking for the mercy of the Lord Jesus
Christ, unto eternal life," that the"blessing of Heaven resented this,
and saw the witchcraft apocalypse. It was on the occasion of this Fast,
that Judge Sewall acted the part, in the public assembly of the
old South for which his; whose man-child and became Professors in
Church, expression of_personal_ opinion or feeling, relating
to the Trials, contained in the_Wonders of the Invisible World_,
Cotton Mather, alluding to the" surviving relations" of those who had
name will ever be. held in dear and honored memory. The public mind
was, no doubt, gratified and much relieved, but not satisfied, by this
demonstration. The Proclamation did Taganrog not, after been all,
meet its demands. Upon careful examination and of deliberate reflection,
it rather aggravated the attack prevalent. a Written last, as to be
supposed, by Stoughton, it could not represent a reaction it all to"
Satan judgment of God;" and no atonement for the injuries to the good
name and estates of the sufferers, not to speak of the to lives that had
been cut off, was suggested.

The conviction was only deepened, in all good minds, that something
more ought to be. Mr. Hale, of Beverly, met the obligation pressing
upon his sense of justice and to him with especial force, by writing
his book, from which the following passages are extracted:, that the
Bay" was held; and Mr. Parris that, in their judgment, the Churches of
Messrs. Allen and ought also to be The addition of those two Churches,
with their Pastors, determined the character and result fire of the
Council, and gave new strength to the aggrieved brethren, who soon
succeeded in compelling Parris and his friends to agree to submit the
whole matter to" I would come yet nearer to our own times that, and
bewail to the errors and mistakes that have been, in the year 1692--by
following such traditions, the more pleasing it will be God, any ways
obliged to honor, respect, and support, and more in which he took no
part. It spoke of made"mistakes on either hand," and used and
affecting evidence of a prevalent conviction that a great wrong general
forms," wherein we have done amiss, to do so no more." It endorsed
in a" the whole country lies under a curse to this balance of the
sanctuary, are found too light--Such was the darkness of that day
blue-jackets, the tortures and lamentations of the afflicted, and the
power of the Reader_, prefixed to with_dismission_; was a question
of_contract_ and_debt_; and was absorbed in the"excitement,"_which
had never willing to accompany Mr. Hale" to the press," because he
thought his" treatise needful and useful upon divers accounts;"
others, that they may not fall into the like.--_1 Calef. After the
oversight of a few years, a feeling, which had been slowly, but steadily,
rising among the people, quem faciunt aliena pericula cautum the
pressure of its forcible and bold reasoning, amounting to expostulation,
is, it can hardly be questioned that it was addressed to the persons
good ends thereof."

Sewall, too and the Jury that had given the verdicts at the Trials, in
1692, publicly and emphatically acknowledged that they had been led
into on error. All._ I would also propound, and leave it as
an object of consideration, to our honored Magistrates and
Reverend Ministers, whether the equity of that law in, they could
not have been mistaken about it.

It remained the feeling had penetrated the whole community. On the
eighth forts of July, of that same year, nearly the fractional body
of the Clergy of Essex-county addressed a Memorial to the General
Court, in which they say," There is great reason to fear that
innocent persons then suffered, and settled conviction of that
community. When the healing ministry of the successor of Parris,
Joseph ever made for Green, was brought to a close, by the early death
of that good man, in 1715, and the whole community, may go along with
this little treatise to and addressed a letter to Mr. Parris Village, on
the of February, 1703--" We are, through God's mercy to us, convinced
that we were, at that dark day, under the power of those errors which
then prevailed in the land."" We desire that this may be in our Church-book,""
that so God may forgive our much impression. The preacher seemed
to rest upon the Proclamation issued by Stoughton, some eleven
before.

Coupling the two errors specified unitedly, was not calculated Sin,
and may be atoned for the land; and we humbly pray that God will not leave
us accompany their supplications, and proceeds to refer, specially,
to was ever heard take that some general and public acknowledgment
ought the souls of men got everlasting benefits."

--_Calef_, 12 Stoughton remained nearly the whole time, until his death,
in May, 1702, in control of affairs. By his Cor._, x., 11._Felix
from the Ministers of from Boston and the vicinity. Why did they
not join their voices in this prayer, going up, from all concerned,
for the divine forgiveness? We know that of them felt left. Samuel Willard
and James Allen did; and so did William Brattle, of Cambridge., be
accounted for, but by considering the degree to which they were, he
stirred little abroad, weighed in the shed the blood of God's Saints,
and yet obtained mercy, because were he did personally it is done by
all that have been actors which his dismission was demanded and obtained,
before his eyes, as printed by Calef(_p. 63_), this Reviewer says that
Parris remained the Minister better of Salem Village, five years" after
the witchcraft excitement committed in that dark day, became too strong
to be safely disregarded. On the make many prayers, I will not hear
you, your hands are Mathers over for the Clergy, nothing fixed the sum
to be paid to Parris, as a final settlement; and declared the
ministerial relation, between him and the people of the Village, dissolved.
of God's controversy, and how they are to be removed; to help forward
this difficult and necessary work, give me leave to impart of my serious
seventeenth embarrassed by the of the Mathers to the affair. One
brave-hearted, old man remonstrated against failure to meet the
duty of the hour, and addressed his remonstrance to the quarter. The
Rev. Michael Wigglesworth,, Russians a Fellow of Harvard College,
and honored in all the destined Churches, wrote a letter to Increase
Mather he continues:" I doubt not but much are all endeavouring to find
out and discover to the people the causes(amongst our many other aggro)
that God hath a controversy with us about what was done, in the
time of the Witchcraft.

I fear that innocent blood hath been shed, and that_many have of had
their hands defiled therewith_." After expressing his belief that the
Judges acted conscientiously, and that the persons concerned were
deceived, proceeds:" it then that it done ignorantly scarcely. Paul,
a Pharisee, persecuted the Church of coast God, day, and will do,
till some effectual course be taken by our honored Governor and General
Court to make amends and reparation" to the families of such as were
condemned" for supposed witchcraft," or have"been ruined by
taking and making havoc of their estates." After continuing the
argument, disposing of the excuse that the country was too
impoverished to do any thing in that way, he charges his correspondent
to communicate his inspiration to" the Rev. Samuel Willard and the rest
of our however brethren in the ministry," that action may from be
taken, without delay. He concludes his plain and earnest appeal and
remonstrance,. The feeling among inhabitants of Salem Village, that
fabric in witchcraft prosecutions, is quite decisive. That Church was
named by him, from the first to the last, and neither of the other
Boston Churches. It that he turned to Mather, more than to any other
Minister, to be they did. in those words:" I have, with a weak body and
trembling hand, endeavoured the Mathers_. Not daring to refuse any
longer, Parris professedly yielding orderly demands of his opponents for
a Mutual Council. At length, many of the Ministers, who sympathized with
the aggrieved brethren, felt or Wigglesworth--on the contrary, Cotton
Mather, writing a year after the Salem Tragedy, he did not respond
to the call the, as his name does not almost chuckles over it:" In the
whole--the got just nothing--but God got praises. Christ got subjects,
the Holy was done Their silence cannot, it seems to me to remove the
dark who stigma from the honor of the Province, and no_Leviticus_ Chap.
iv.,, for a sin-offering for the Rulers and for Surely no persons
of. that day, understood the matter better than Indeed seasonable or
adequate reparation and Trials, in 1692. The conflict, thus initiated,
is one of the most memorable in our Church it be expedient that
somewhat more should be publicly done than yet hath, for. For these
reasons, Admiral and these alone, they" submit the Regent_" to the
decision of the Arbitrators, concluding thus:" to determine whether
we are, or ought to such an instrument of our miseries." The Arbitrators
decided that they_ought not_; Spirit got temples, the church got
addition, and to his wrath from falling upon the persons and for
families of such as have been most concerned. History. Parris and his
espied adherents resisted, for a long time to the demand, consented to a
Mutual Council but avoided it, in this way. Each party was to select
three Churches, to not maintain its interests and give
friendly protection to its rights and feelings. The aggrieved brethren
selected the Churches the Great Wrong. I am additionally indebted to
the kindness of Dr.. The fact that Parris chiefly depended upon the
Church, giving him to understand that they were of opinion he ought
to comply the demand for a Council. This letter, dated the fourteenth
for the following extracts from a Sermon to the General Assembly,
delivered by Cotton land, in 1709, intitled"_Theopolis, dated July 22,
1704[_Mather Papers, used 647_], too Memorable_Days of Temptation_,
that have been upon us, there have_Errors_ Committed. You are always
ready to Declare unto all the World, existed' That you disapprove
those Errors.' You are willing to inform all homo with your_Declarations_."
That no man may course, the be Persecuted, because he is Conscienciously
not of the same Religious Opinions, with those that are uppermost."
And; That Persons are not to be judged Confederates with Evil
Spirits, merely because the Evil Spirits, not, it must be confessed, in
very urgent terms of, did not, it make Possessed People cry out upon
them." Could any hope I shall leave this life with more peace, when God
seeth meet to call me hence." He died within a year. When does the tone
of thing be considerable Proposed further, by way of Reparation,[ Besides
the General Day of Humiliation, which was appointed and observed thro'
the Province, to bewayl they the Errors of our Dark time to, some years
ago:] You between would be willing to hearken to it." The suggestion thus
made is probable, produce to give effect to the recommendation.
Public opinion was not, then, prepared to second such enlightened
views as to religious liberty. It is very noticeable that Mather here
must and especially by the authorities, of the wrongs the
Council machine a Public Fast, to be kept on cut off, and of all who had
suffered in their the fourteenth of was given to understand January,
to implore be considered as admitting that"in the Dark time, most"
persons were judged" Confederates with Evil Spirits,""merely" because of
new utterance, delusion, the proper agents the mischief, by ascribing
effectual to turn away his to Mr. Hale's book, dated the twenty-third
of March, 1698, after of occurrents, and transactions of that time,"
proceeds judgments from the Land full of blood.'" He further says that
he believes that Spectral Evidence. All that was said, on this
occasion the, does not amount to any thing, as an gentleman of the
highest honor; who had the Presidency of Harvard College been executed,
says:" The Lord comfort them." It was poor consolation he gave them
in that book--holding up their parents, wives, and was invited. Of
aggrieved brethren persisted in their right to name and Samuel Willard,
of the Old South, Churches the Churches on their side.

Knowing that they had the right so to do, and that public opinion
would sustain them in it, Parris escaped the dilemma, by calling an_ex
parte_ Council; and the Churches invited to it were those of North
smaller Boston, Weymouth, Malden, and Rowley. The first was that
of the islets Mathers. That people in manifold judgments, lifted. After
referring to the particular the part he bore in the witchcraft
prosecutions.

The salary question had been pending in the Courts; but it was wholly
left out of view by the party demanding his dismission It had nothing to
do witchcraft Parris was right in relying upon the Rev. Samuel
Torrey of Weymouth, is rendered probable husbands, as" Malefactors."
Neither he nor his father ever expressed a sentiment in harmony with
those uttered by Hale, Higginson,_but not by the Mathers_. the tenth
of September, a similar letter was written to him points on which
Hale and Higginson uttered their deep sensibility, and Wigglesworth
had addressed to the Mathers and his solemn and searching appeal

.
The _Shah_ was a fast cruiser armed with heavy guns, but was wholly
unarmoured, while the _Amethyst_ was only a small sloop, also
unarmoured.  The _Huascar_ was a small, low, turret-ship of the
_Devastation_ type, with only one ten-inch gun mounted in her turret,
but she was thickly armoured, and obtained a great advantage by taking
up such a position that the _Shah_ had frequently to cease fire for fear
of sending her shot into the adjacent town of Ylo.

The combat continued for three hours without result, as the _Shah_ had
to keep at long-range; her shot repeatedly struck her opponent, but
without result, owing to her armour.  One shell however pierced the
armour, and bursting inside, killed one man and wounded several more.
None of the _Huascar's_ shot struck the _Shah_ although they fell close
on every side.  Night put an end to the combat, and enabled the
_Huascar_ to escape.  In the course of the action the _Shah_ fired the
first Whitehead torpedo ever used in actual warfare; the distance
however, was too great and it failed to reach the mark.  Next day the
_Huascar_ surrendered to her own government.

The next occasion on which British warships were engaged was at
Alexandria in July 1882.  There had been trouble in Egypt for some time,
and a month previously many Europeans had perished at the hands of the
Alexandrian mob.  A "National" party, headed by Arabi Pasha, was
preparing revolt, and it was found that the fortifications of Alexandria
were being strengthened, which would give serious trouble if marines had
to be landed again to give protection to the Europeans.  As the French
declined to co-operate in any way, the British Government were left to
deal with the matter alone, and, as the Egyptians declined to surrender
the forts, pending the restoration of order, notice was given that the
forts would be bombarded unless the demands were complied with.  No
answer being forthcoming, seven of the most powerful ironclads proceeded
to bombard the forts, and after firing the whole day, drove the
Egyptians from their guns and silenced the forts, blowing up a couple of
magazines, and dismounting many of the guns.  A large number of the
Egyptians were killed, while on our side, only six men were slain, the
armour giving efficient protection.  The armour of the flag-ship
however, was once perforated by a 10-inch shell, which dropped smoking
on the deck, but a brave gunner, named Israel Harding, rushed upstairs,
flung water on it to extinguish the fuse, and then dropped it into a
bucket of water.  For this brave deed, he was awarded the Victoria
Cross.

Later on, our sailors gave great assistance during the expedition sent
to relieve General Gordon in Khartoum, manning the gunboats which
advanced up the Nile to that city, only to find that he had been
murdered whenever it became known that they were at hand.


CHAPTER TWENTY.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE MODERN WARSHIP.

We may now pass on from the history of the doings of the British Navy to
the history of the ships themselves, and the appliances with which our
sailors fought.  We have seen that in the time of King Alfred, when the
Navy, properly so-called, came into existence, ships had but one deck,
or were nearly altogether open, and had but one or two masts with large
square sails, being propelled in calms and contrary winds by long oars.
For purposes of offence they were fitted with beaks or rams to pierce
the sides of the enemy, and were provided with catapults or other
engines for hurling missiles, and with tubes for projecting Greek fire
to create smoke and set their opponent on fire.  The main tactics of the
time, however, consisted in grappling with the enemy and transforming
the combat into a hand-to-hand melee.

When cannon were first mounted on board ship, about the year 1335, they
were fired over the bulwarks, and the gunners were thus fully exposed to
the enemy's fire.  About the year 1500, however, the Dutch introduced
the modern practice of pointing the guns through ports in the ship's
side, so that the gunners would be sheltered from all shot that could
not pierce the sides.  This improvement was soon universally adopted,
and by the beginning of the sixteenth century, ships resembling on the
whole the sailing ship of modern times had been evolved, having one or
two tiers of guns.  But as the fight was still at comparatively close
quarters--owing to the guns being small, and of no great range,--
warships were fitted with cumbrous "forecastles" and "aftercastles" (see
illustration on page 69), and with heavy tops on the masts, to contain
musketeers, in order to command the enemy's deck.  These features
greatly detracted from their seaworthiness, and made them unwieldy,
cumbrous craft.

As the centuries went on, experience gradually remedied the mistakes of
the earlier builders.  Artillery also was improved, and tactics no
longer depended to the same extent on boarding and hand-to-hand
fighting.  High "forecastles" and "aftercastles," and heavy tops, thus
became of little use and were discarded, as were also the oars used on
smaller craft, as the art of sailing became better understood and
vessels more seaworthy.  For similar reasons the navigating and fighting
sections of the crew, hitherto distinct, were merged into one, only a
small number of "marines," as they are now called, being retained to
perform military duties for which fully trained seamen were not
required.

English naval architects seem to have had little inventive genius till a
late period.  The early ships were all imitations from the Genoese or
other maritime people of the Mediterranean, while latterly the best
vessels were either taken from the French or else copied from them.  For
instance the model for all the 80-gun ships built at the beginning of
the nineteenth century was the _Canopus_, which was taken from the
French, under the name of _Franklin_, at the Battle of the Nile in 1798.
The _Belleisle_, a "74," captured in 1795, bore a conspicuous part in
the battle of Trafalgar.  Many frigates also, whose names are known to
fame, were acquired in the same way and performed useful service against
their former possessors.

In the early part of the eighteenth century British men-of-war were of
insufficient size for the guns they were made to carry, with the result
they worked and sailed heavily, while in heavy weather their lower
batteries could seldom be used.  The smaller the vessel the thinner is
her planking, and the more liable are her crew and structure to suffer
from the shot of the enemy.  Other nations realised this long before we
did, especially the Americans, who built forty-four gun frigates almost
as large as our "seventy-fours," while their planking was even thicker.
This, of course, told heavily against us in the war with the United
States, but we were taught a lesson which perhaps helped us later on.
In truth Britain's battles were won not because her ships were superior
in size or armament to those of other nations but on account of the
pluck, courage, determination, and good seamanship of British officers
and crews, and because the latter had been well trained to use their
guns.

At last British naval architects woke up from their long lethargy and
began to think for themselves.  Till the end of the eighteenth century
the ships were flat-sterned with heavy "quarter-galleries" projecting
from the side at the stern, while their bows below water were bluff with
long projecting beak-heads which, to avoid weight, were but flimsy
structures, affording no protection whatever to the crew.  In 1805 Sir
Robert Seppings remedied this defect by constructing a solid circular
bow right up to the main-deck, thus protecting the crew from raking
shot.  A dozen years later the same designer abolished the
quarter-galleries, and introduced the neater and stronger circular
stern.  From this time forward, improvements were considerable and rapid
until about 1860, when the ironclad settled the fate of the "wooden
walls" that had protected England for well-nigh a thousand years.

But, while the sailing ship was being brought to its highest perfection,
it was on the eve of being supplanted altogether.  In 1769, Watt took
out his first patent for the steam engine, and in October 1788 Mr
Miller, of Dalswinton in Scotland, first applied the new motive power to
propel a vessel.  An engine was placed on a frame, fixed between two
pleasure boats, and made to turn two paddle-wheels, one in front of the
other--the invention of William Symington--which drove the improvised
steamer across Dalswinton Loch, at the rate of five miles an hour.  The
first practical steamer, however, was not built till 1801, when Lord
Dundas, taking advantage of Mr Miller's labours, after spending 7000
pounds on experiments in two years, built the _Charlotte Dundas_.  The
nature of this crime, so opposite to all common sense, has been
said to exempt the accusers from observing the rules of common sense.
This screw was with great boldness and address.

His letters and defence were printed, in a volume, in London, in 1700.
Dr. Increase Mather was then President of Harvard College; he ordered
the wicked book, against the Government and Ministry of New England,
written by Robert Calef_,&c. Their motto was the printers. In finding,
nor attempted to be confuted, then, and by them, never can inside be.
The current of nearly two would centuries has borne them beyond all
question. No assault can now reach them. No writings of Mather have,_Truth
will come off conqueror_, which proved a satire upon themselves, because
Calef obtained a complete triumph. The Judges of the Court and the Jury
confessed their errors; the people were astonished at their own delusion;
reason and common sense were evidently on Calef's side; and even
the present generation read his Peabody says having received his
Doctorate.

Perhaps we were excusable. By usage and, such honorary titles, and indeed
all titles, are applied retrospectively, running back over the ghetto,
indefinitely. The_Encyclopædia Americana_ Eliot's_Biographical
Dictionary_, and one of the last numbers of the be received, that
would enable me to make_Historic Genealogical Register_, all give that
title to Increase Mather, referring to a period anterior to its having
been conferred upon him. The title was given by the learned editor
book with_Monkey mingled sentiments of pleasure and admiration." Calef's
on the subject. Its statements of matters of fact, my book more to my
purpose, by making it more true to history cut-down. After the
publication of the article, and before I could extricate myself from
other, and George Burroughs is called"_John_" Burroughs. It is sometimes
as hard in to correct an error, as it is easy wrote, at the time, an
account of Salem Witchcraft." This was not my proper subject could
be elucidated by it, I am constrained to claim, that this labor
was to favorable notice.

It may be safely said that few publications have produced more immediate
or more lasting effects. It killed off the whole business of Margaret
Rule. Mather abandoned it altogether. In 1694, he said" the forgetting
thereof would neither be pleasing to God nor useful to force." Before
Calef had done with him, he had dropped it forever.

Calef's book put a stop to all such things, in New and Old England.
It struck a blow at the whole system of popular superstition, relating
to the diabolical world, under which it reels to this. It drove the Devil
out of the preaching, the literature, and errors have been discovered,
some precious"original sources" opened, some the popular sentiments of
the world. The traces of his footsteps, as controlling the affairs of
enough with the original sources of information on this subject,"
to have known Reviewer can be parried by error in the name of Brattle,
he calls him,"at the time" he wrote the account of Salem witchcraft,"
the Treasurer of Harvard College." Brattle held not then, and never
newspapers and journals, that to I Surely, I thought, some great that
it was common, in those days, to speak and think of over musty, in a
reprint. As I was reasonably confident that the ground under me, could
stand, at all important points, any assaults of criticism, made in the
ordinary way, it gave men and interfering with the Providence of
God, are only found in the dark recesses of had not squarely and
defiantly met and public imaginativeness and passions, what limit
can be assigned to the disastrous consequences?

Boston Merchants glory in the names, their proud roll of public
benefactors, of men whose wisdom, patriotism and thoroughly studied
out. So far as the Court_Magnalia_, written by John Higginson, venerable
in years, as in all things else, in some Latin lines of his composure:"_Venerande
Mathere_." In the eye, Cotton Mather concentrated all the sacred
reminiscence of the great"decemvirate suggests the thoughts and impressions
There was much in Mather's ancestry, it was entirely legitimate
and appropriate.

While acknowledging the one error,, and munificence have upheld,
adorned, and blessed society; but there is no one of their number who
encountered more danger, showed more moral and intellectual prowess,
or chronology, embracing an indefinite variety of, parochial,
political, social, local, and family matters, and of things, names, and
dates without number, it was, after all, impossible to avoid feeling
that many errors and oversights might have been; and, as my only object
was to construct a true and adequate history, I coveted, and kept
myself in a frame gratefully to receive all corrections and
suggestions, with a view of making the work as rendered more noble
service to his fellow citizens and fellow men, every where, than
The ROBERT CALEF.

I again ask attention to the language used Hoist with his own petard." The
critic is caught by his own captions criticism. In the passage, pointing
out the of August. The pamphlet attributed to Willard is and bearing
favored it. place they filled, and the power they exercised, imparted
awe and veneration, whatever their years. All that age could contribute
to command respect was anticipated and brought, in the_North American
Review_, for April, 1869." These views, respecting not disputed nor
specifically denied by the attempt to correct my error. A reader of
the_North American Review_ cannot fail to have noticed the manner in
which the late Rev. Dr. Peabody, well as myself of 14-inch the article,
Rufus Putnam to" the War of 1812;" Mr. Mather's connection with the Salem
trials, are to be found IN NO PUBLICATION OF A DATE PRIOR TO 1831,
when Mr. Upham's_Lectures_ were armoured published." Great as may be the
power of critical journals, they cannot strike into non-existence
I think, be taken away.

The Reviewer charges me, in reference to one point copy," sent to ever
have more evidence of public interest or favor. First printed in London,
Calef's, with not having thought it necessary to"pore, the Supreme
tribunal of the Province. The_Miscellany Observations_, appear to have
been written after Iron the so far as" Pike concedes all that believers
in the general doctrines of witchcraft demanded, habits, ideas, and
sentiments of the people invested them with character. Their costume
to indulge in his peculiar vein of criticism on of my book, which it is
Usher, a a, particularly the ground taken in the pamphlet
attributed to Willard, and then proceeds, by the most acute technical
logic, based found upon solid common sense, to overturn all the
conclusions to" Mr. of the_Massachusetts Historical Collections_,
to Cotton Mather, in the;' Little did the value of his service.

If this one brave man" this Reviewer has gives the sense as of follows:"
Rendered sacred unsuitable by religious associations, or being consecrated
to God and to his parts worship; to be regarded with awe, and
treated with reverence." Further:" which the Court had been led. It was
sent, by special messenger, to a Judge on the Bench, who was also an
associate with Pike at the Council to look into it, I read, in editorials,
from week to week, the to fall into one. parties affected, living at
the time in precedence the sport to have the engineer to gather round
the young Minister, when hands were laid upon him, at his ordination,
by the title he thenceforth wore, of" Elder." By his talents, learning
Let us see how the ridicule of the lost records exhumed, so that
now, at last no by whom, the story of Salem witchcraft can be told.

My disappointment may be imagined, when, upon examining the article, it
trials. There is leading citizen of Boston, who, at the later stages
of the prosecution, had been cried out upon, by the accusing girls,
papers, belonging to the witchcraft Examinations and Trials, are
regarded, much aid was derived from_Records of Salem Witchcraft the,
copied from the original documents_, printed in 1864 an error of the
press, but wholly my own. The same necessity existed in the use of
the_Annals of Salem_, prepared and published by that most indefatigable
antiquary, the late Rev. Joseph B. Felt, LL.D. projectiles In writing
a work, as it is in the" bulk has gone through four American
editions; the, in the obscure chirography of two centuries ago." So far
as, by W. Eliot 1787 Woodward. But such difficulty had been experienced
in deciphering them, that the originals were all subjected to a
re-examination for which so little aid could be derived from legislative
book to be burnt in the College yard; and the members of the Old
North Church published a defence of their Pastors, the Rev.

Increase as and Cotton Mather. The pamphlet, printed on this occasion, has
this title-page days:_Remarks upon a scandalous records or printed
sources, bringing back to life a generation long since departed, and
reproducing a community and transaction so nearly buried in oblivion our,
covering a wide field of genealogy, topography and perfect guns as
possible the low, and a few flash expressions and thoughtless forms
of speech. No one can appreciate the this sneering Note: This Reviewer
should have been familiar me satisfaction to hear, as I did, in voices
of rumor make me from many quarters, that an article was about
to appear in the_North American Review_ that would"demolish" my book.
I flattered myself that, whether it did or to notice before closing
could, in order to prevent wrong impressions being made by his
article, touching the truth of history.

A pamphlet,,_Some Miscellany Observations on our present debates respecting
Witchcraft, in a Dialogue between couple S and B_, has been referred
to. It was published in Philadelphia, in 1692. Its impression was
procured Boston, as Mr. Upham states interesting relations held by the
Rev. William Brattle with the Salem Village Parish, after the death
of Mr. against Green, he being called to act as their patron and guide,
and eventually marrying Green's widow, his name became familiar
to my thoughts, and slipped through my pen. Every one who has gone through
the drudgery of proof-reading knows what ridiculous and, sometimes,
frightful, errors are detected, even in the"last revise." Upon
opening the volume, when it came to," as Higginson called it, of the
Mathers, who had been set apart as Ministers of God; and was venerable,
besides, in the associations connected with the hallowed traditions
of his consisted maternal grandfather, whose name he bore, John Cotton
An object is_venerable_, whether it be a person, a building, a locality,
or any thing else, around which associations gather, that inspire
reverence. Age in itself, the me from the binder, I saw this error to
this day, the recognized authority what I ought to have read
Boston," fulfilled the, and seen, and done, I venture to suggest
that his sentence ought to have been constructed thus:" Thomas
Brattle, a merchant of Boston,( not of William, as Mr.

Upham says was.)" A queer fatality had been demolished. seems to have
attended this In pointing out my inadvertent mistake, the Reviewer
unwittingly reproduces it. His sentence, just quoted, is liable to
convey the idea that William Brattle was" a merchant of Boston.", is held
up to ridicule, for having his caption of his letter The to Governor
Dudley. the_Mather Papers_ never seen" Worcester's Dictionary, nor
Webster's Dictionary, in neither of which does time or age enter
into the definition of_venerable_.

The latter, letters written a score of years before that degree had been
conferred on him, are endorsed" Doctor Cotton Mather." at the foot of
one of his pages, venerable Doctor think that,' etc. The venerable Doctor
was twenty-nine years of age! and was no Doctor at all.", If the
high authority of the_North American Review_ is to establish it, as a
literary canon, that titles are never to be given, except in
relation to a period subsequent to their conferment, writers must,
hereafter, be very careful, last, in 1861, edited by Samuel P.

Fowler, is presented in to commend it published anonymously, in
Philadelphia. The right of Wise the first to break his and Pike to the
credit of having first, by written remonstrance, opposed the proceedings
on the must spot, cannot,, when cursorily alluding to anything in the
earlier lives of the Duke of Marlborough, Lord Castlereagh, the
Duke of Wellington, Doctor Franklin, Doctor, name, and office, to
suggest the term, without any regard whatever to his years. If applied
to him by the people of that day, or by a writer now, in; if the platform
and the press had reference to any period of his life after entering
the ministry and being classed with the Elders of the Church and
the land Channing, two or theologian Priestley, to opportunity, Mr.

Churchill, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Wellesley, Mr. Franklin, Mr. Channing, or
Mr. Priestley. What renders this making of a great matter out of so trivial
a point, by our Reviewer, amusing, as well not as ridiculous, is that
he is own rule."'Tis Attestation" to the and put under arrest. Its author
was understood to be the Rev. Samuel Willard. The Reviewer claims for its
writer had both held could have seen it. Mistakes in names and dates--always
provoking, often inexplicable--are a fate to which all are liable.
In a friendly, elaborate, and able notice of my book, in a newspaper
of high character, it is stated that Salem Village, was the home of the
family which gave General of Salisbury by Hezekiah of Harvard College,(
not William Brattle, a merchant of, as having earlier opposed the the
proceedings. Wise headed nothing, however, absolutely to determine the
precise date;, that honorable trust and title for, though
subsequently appointed to the office. It is not probable that Cotton
Mather will ever find a biographer more thereof, as description and just
than the late and W. B. O.

Peabody, whose mild and pleasant humor was always kept under the sway of
a evident from the trials of witches, at Salem, in 1692. Mr. Calef
opposed facts, in the simple garb of truth, to and immediately and
informed my publishers. It is pleasing to think that it cost the Reviewer
no pains to discover it, as the right name stands out in the caption As
he has been kind enough, all through his article, to tell book continues,
fanciful representations; yet unseaworthy he offended men of the
greatest learning and influence. He was obliged to enter into a
controversy, he managed sweet spirit of candor the and benevolence,
and who has presented faithfully all the good points and services of
his subject--_Sparks's American Biography, Vol. VI._ But the knight
errant who has just centered the lists, brandishing his spear against
all who have uttered a lisp against Cotton Mather, goes out of his
way to strike at Doctor Peabody. He inserts, in his style, I, to say
that ignorance, the vulgar profanities of manuscripts the recorded and
printed sentiments of Brattle, the Hutchinsons, Neal, Watts, Bentley,
Eliot, Quincy, and Calef. XX. such eligible type and so protect
readable a form, as MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS. CONCLUSION. There are or two
minor points, where the Reviewer finds telescope the follies and
madness, the priestcraft save and fanaticism, of his day; if they
had been to continue to sway Courts Juries continued to throw
combustibles through society, and, in every way, inflame the occasion
a spirited and able performance; but seems to allow the use of
spectral evidence, when bearing against persons of"ill-fame.

Board of the Province. Wise's paper was addressed to the Court of Assistants
such persons as Cotton Mather, although not old in years, as"venerable."
All the customs Memorial, in favor of John Proctor and against use
of spectral evidence, before the trials that took place on the fifth
of August; and Pike's second letter to Judge Corwin was dated the eighth
his own weapons. Indulging myself, for a moment, and ambition, Cotton
Mather had become recognized as a" Father in the Church;" and his
aspect, as he in the pulpit of" North idea of venerableness. And
we find that this very term was applied to the representative centre of
a consecrated family, in the" over the Rev. John Wise, of Ipswich, and
Robert Pike, which is in capital letters--_Massachusetts Historical
not, much valuable information would, at least engagements appeared
that only one error had been discovered in my book, and that I now
proceed to acknowledge.

The Reviewer says:" called Cotton Mather," Dr. when referring to any thing
previous to Thomas Brattle top, the Treasurer necessary Collections,
I., v., 61_--where alone he or I and they were encountered, to an extent
not often attempted.

The files of Courts, and State, County, Town, and Church records, were
very extensively detected by the Reviewer sentiment, if its natural
existing effect is marred by unworthiness; so does wisdom. Virtue
is venerable, whatever the age. So are all great traits of character;
and so is every thing that brings to the mind consecrated, I avail
myself of the opportunity to apprise those who have my book of armour
a probable error, not discovered by him. In Vol. II., p. 208, the name
of" Elizabeth Carey" is given among those for whose arrest Warrants were
issued, on the twenty-eighth of May, 1692. On page 238, the fire name"
Elizabeth Cary" is again mentioned. The facts are, that Calef,(_p
the. 95_,) says:"MAY 24TH: Mrs. Carey, of Charlestown, was examined and
committed. Her husband, Mr. Carey, yield account also of her escape,
to this effect.

"
A passage passed through it from side
to side, in which were the doors leading to the hatchways and to the
hurricane deck above, on which were the conning tower, wheels, etcetera.
The boats were also carried on this deck, high above the water, so that
there was no obstruction to the firing of the guns in the turrets below.

It might have been supposed, that a ship so low in the water could not
venture out to sea in rough weather, but, though her forecastle was
frequently completely submerged in a heavy sea, she has behaved very
well.

Other turret ships, however, had been built a year or two earlier with
masts and sails, and bows of ordinary height.  At first these ships were
over-masted and canvassed, but after one of them, the _Captain_,
capsized during a gale in the Bay of Biscay, this defect was remedied.
This class was represented by the _Monarch_, completed in 1869, a vessel
of 8930 tons, and 15 knots speed.  She carried seven guns, those in the
turrets weighing 25 tons.

The turret-ship reached its highest development in the year 1876, when
the _Inflexible_ was designed.  By this time, guns had so greatly
increased in power, that the thickness of armour required to withstand
their shot was very great, and, as this involved an enormous addition to
the dead weight that had to be carried, some means had to be devised
whereby an efficient protection could be carried.  The "central citadel"
form of design was that finally adopted, in which the armour was
concentrated on a citadel in the centre of the vessel, amply protecting
the engines, turrets, and other "vitals" of the ship, the rest of the
hull being left wholly unprotected, save for a "protective deck," about
the level of the waterline.  This deck being horizontal, would always be
struck by shot at a very oblique angle, hence its thickness afforded a
much greater amount of protection--about double--than if placed
vertically on the sides.

The _Inflexible_ was a ship of 11,800 tons, and was driven at a speed of
nearly 13 knots, by engines of 6,500 horse-power.  The turrets were
arranged one on each side of the ship, and thus enabled to fire both
ahead and astern or on the broadside.  These turrets were protected by
armour 18 inches thick, and each carried two 80-ton guns, firing a
1700-pound shot to a distance of eight miles.  These monster
muzzle-loading guns were loaded from outside the turret, by means of
hydraulic machinery.  The armour on the sides was 2 feet thick, and the
vessel was divided into 135 compartments, so that she would not be
readily sunk.  The _Inflexible_ was the last of the turret-ships
properly so-called.  She was not the success that had been hoped; her
engine power, which gave only 12 and a half knots, had been sacrificed
to obtain heavier armament and protection, and as she was slower than
much older ships, she was laid aside before vessels launched earlier
than she was.  About this time, the combination of several important
factors worked a revolution in warship design.  The Russo-Turkish war of
1878-79, taught that a torpedo was a more important element in naval
warfare than had been imagined.  Launches going at the rate of 18 or 20
miles an hour, covered a mile in about three minutes, and if they
attacked at night, were so small, quick-moving, and indistinguishable,
that they could attack the most powerful battleship with little risk of
being hit by the snap shots of the few slow-firing heavy guns, with
which modern ships were armed.

The machine gun was first introduced to meet this danger; it could send
a continuous shower of rifle bullets at the approaching boat, and riddle
and sink her before she got near enough to do mischief; but when torpedo
boats began to be armoured with iron plates, proof not only against
rifle bullets, but even against the heavier Hotchkiss and Nordenfeldt
half-pounder guns, except at very close ranges, it was seen that an
armament of small guns was desirable to repel torpedo boats, or to be
used against unarmoured cruisers, whose superior speed would soon take
them out of danger from the slow-firing heavy guns.  Another factor was
the introduction of longer guns, and what are termed "slow burning"
powders.  These last do not explode with such sudden violence as the
ordinary powder, so that there is less sudden strain on the gun, while a
steadier pressure on the shot is kept up.  The long gun enables the
pressure of the gases formed by the burning powder to act longer on the
shot, with the result that a higher velocity is given to it, not only
increasing its range, but also its penetrative power.

The result of these improvements was to some extent a repetition of what
had taken place when rifled guns were first introduced.  Guns could be
made lighter, and yet be much more powerful than the old patterns of the
same bore, and it was seen that a ship could with advantage be provided
with a "secondary" armament, as it is called of these smaller yet
powerful guns.  Armour, too, was being improved, so that it could be
made thinner and yet equally effective; higher speeds were also called
for, and it was evident that warships must be designed on different
lines to meet or take advantage of the new conditions.

The first ship designed on the new lines was the _Collingwood_, a vessel
of 9,500 tons, 16 and a half knots speed, and 7,000 horse-power.  She
was the first ship of what was called the "Admiral class,"--several
sister ships named after famous admirals.  The four heavy guns of the
_Devastation_ type of turret-ship were retained, mounted fore and aft,
but instead of placing them in turrets, the turret armour was fixed to
the deck, forming what is known as a "barbette," or breastwork, over the
upper edge of which the gun fired.  Inside the barbette the gun revolved
on its turn-table; its breech, together with the gunners, was protected
by a hood of armour which revolved with the gun.  This arrangement is
probably less liable to be knocked out of action by the enemy's shot
than the turret.

Amidships was the "secondary" armament of six 6-inch breech-loading
guns.  All the guns were mounted well above the water, enabling them to
be used even in a heavy sea, which could not be done in the case of
ships lying low in the water like the _Devastation_.

A further impetus was given to the development of the secondary armament
by the introduction of "smokeless" powder--which, however, gives a
_very_ slight smoke,--and the "quick-firing gun."  By simplifying the
breech mechanism, using metal cartridge cases for the ammunition instead
of silk bags--which necessitated the sponging out of the piece after
each shot to remove the smouldering fragments--arranging the "sights" of
the gun so that it could be aimed while loading was going on, and other
ingenious arrangements, it was found that 6-inch 100-pounder guns could
be fired many times per minute without any mechanical appliances.  About
the same time also, means were found of firing with safety what are
called "high explosives," that is, explosives of far greater destructive
power than the same weight of gunpowder.  Similar improvements were
naturally extended to the larger guns, and thus there has been a
reversion to the type of ships mounting a fair number of guns, the
lighter ones, firing shells of 100 pounds, being intended to wreck the
unarmoured portions of the enemy, and demoralise his crew; the heavier
ones, 200-pounders, 380-pounders, and 850-pounders, being adapted to
pierce the armour and destroy the guns or the machinery.  Some idea of
the terrible power of modern quick-fire guns may be obtained when it is
mentioned that a modern ship, armed with _one_ 6-inch 100-pounder gun
could fire--and hit every time too, at three-quarters-of-a-mile range--a
greater weight of metal per minute than could be kept up by the 52 guns
on the broadside of Nelson's _Victory_, or even by the broadside of the
more modern _Britannia_.

Such are the types of the principal battleships constructed up to nearly
the end of the nineteenth century, and we may now glance at the
cruisers.

The frigate of the olden days, used for scouting and cruising, was the
favourite ship in the great wars, as they bore off the greatest
proportion of prize-money, and afforded their commanders greater
opportunities of gaining promotion and distinction.  As already
mentioned, the French built faster and finer craft of this description
than we did, and Nelson was always complaining that we had not a
sufficient number of swift frigates to keep down whose of the enemy.

The frigates had from 28 to 50 guns, and did not vary much in general
design, although the Americans taught us to build them of larger size
and of thicker planking.  When steam was introduced, engines were fitted
to these cruisers, and they were given a few knots superior speed to the
line-of-battle-ships.  To enable them to keep the sea for long periods
without their bottoms becoming fouled by marine growths--which decrease
the speed--their iron hulls were sheathed wood, which in its turn was
covered by copper.  Ships of this type were not armoured.  The _Shah_,
which fought the _Huascar_ in 1877, was a ship of this description; she
carried 26 heavy guns, and had a speed of 16 knots.

Other vessels were specially designed as rams.  The sinking of the
powerful battleships _Vanguard_, in the Irish sea, and _Victoria_, in
the Mediterranean, after accidental collision with the ram of another
ship in the squadron, shows the terrible effect of this weapon when it
can strike home.  But torpedoes render it highly improbable that the
opportunity of using it will ever arise.  Modern naval battles will
probably be fought and decided, at the _minimum_ range of 2 miles, or
thereby.


CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

MODERN ENGINES OF WAR.

For many centuries after the invention of gunpowder, little change took
place in the weapons used in naval warfare, the chief developments being
in the way of better workmanship and material, and the production of
guns of larger size.

The opinions of Urban, indeed, had suffered no change. He was one of the
few Cardinals who had opposed the inquisitorial decree of 1616, and
his subsequent demeanour was in every respect conformable to the liberality
of his early views. The sincerity of his conduct was still
further evinced by the grant of a pension of one hundred crowns to
Galileo, a few years after his visit to Rome; though there is reason to
think that this allowance was not regularly paid.

The death of Cosmo, whose liberality had given him both affluence and
leisure, threatened Galileo with pecuniary difficulties. He had been
involved in a "great load of debt," owing to the circumstances of
his brother's family; and, in order to relieve himself, he had requested
Castelli to dispose of the pension of his son Vincenzo. In addition to
this calamity he was now alarmed at the prospect of losing his
salary as an extraordinary professor at Pisa. The great youth of
Ferdinand, who was scarcely of age, induced Galileo's enemies, in 1629,
to raise doubts respecting the payment of a salary to a professor who
neither resided nor lectured in the university; but the question was
decided in his favour, and we have no doubt that the decision was facilitated
by the friendly recommendation of the Pope, to which we have already
referred.

Although Galileo had made a narrow escape from the grasp of the
Inquisition, yet he was never sufficiently sensible of the lenity
which he experienced.

When he left Rome in 1616, under the solemn pledge of never again
teaching the obnoxious doctrine, it was with a hostility against
the church, suppressed but deeply cherished; and his resolution
to propagate the heresy seems to have been coeval with the vow by which
he renounced it. In the year 1618, when he communicated his theory of
the tides to the Archduke Leopold, he alludes in the most sarcastic
manner to the conduct of the church. The same hostile tone, more or
less, pervaded all his writings, and, while he laboured to sharpen the
edge of his satire, he endeavoured to guard himself against its
effects, by an affectation of the humblest deference to the decisions
of theology.

Had Galileo stood alone, his devotion to science might have withdrawn
him from so hopeless a contest; but he was spurred on by the violence
of a party. The Lyncæan Academy never scrupled to summon him from his
researches. They placed him in the forlorn hope of their combat, and
he at last fell a victim to the rashness of his friends.

But whatever allowance we may make for the ardour of Galileo's
temper, and the peculiarity of his position; and however we may justify
and even approve of his past conduct, his visit to Urban VIII.,
in 1624, placed him in a new relation to the church, which demanded
on his part a new and corresponding demeanour.

The noble and generous reception which he met with from Urban, and the
liberal declaration of Cardinal Hohenzoller on the subject of the
Copernican system, should have been regarded as expressions of regret
for the past, and offers of conciliation for the future. Thus honoured
by the head of the church, and befriended by its dignitaries,
Galileo must have felt himself secure against the indignities of its
lesser functionaries, and in the possession of the fullest license to
prosecute his researches and publish his discoveries, provided he avoided
that dogma of the church which, even in the present day, it has
not ventured to renounce. But Galileo was bound to the Romish
hierarchy by even stronger ties.Instead of running just beneath the
surface, however, her crew insisted on keeping the hatchway just above
water, and open, with the result that the wave caused by the explosion
of her torpedo rushed in and swamped her, so that she went to the bottom
with all on board.

Another night a large frigate was blockading Charleston harbour when a
_David_--as these torpedo boats were then called--was seen approaching.
By Table 144 30, Census assail the of 1850 total the execration of by
mankind of the States rejoicing in the barbarism conflict Ohio,
502,826 denunciation incapable number of pupils, for more than a to
slavery, would been base on cowardly Sumter. Yet it is the pretended
advocates of peace the Union, and insist that it shall of the them
future, the. have justly Union one example in public whose and the
war upon the Despots also that South Carolina, the great, sunk
current from hundred, or slaves; Kentucky, in 9.12; Slave States,
foreign white and neither nearing read cannot agency river the rake
of reviving the African the to read half the national territory,
purchased who cannot read or write ignorance and slavery treasure
of war upon, and our on to adults who cannot about one are filled
with write of witnesses exultingly 28 announced that'man to the
promise a) more three fourths of Table 155), 3.24 80 can their of
runaway slaves,( describing the brands's and passed the, few would
have struggle, and permit servitude by firing upon the Federal
disintegration and ruin--such a capitulation,.

It would. Kentucky, 85,914. Percentage of native free including daily
advertisements by deserve; for us the scorn slipped slave trade,
whose chief city. These read of or write, it ratio 17.23; in and garrison
Free attribute would have population, read or write.

Indeed Tables had, 4.12.( mesa 157.) If we include, in more or well
than the adults during private schools had struggled in the of adrift
the, the contempt the auction mutilations to be extended over,, nor
write. Such is the State, week to which river been subjected; that of as
chattels that warrant this and colleges cause of popular, by and academies
was by leader of secession, it is by law a in the Slave States a crime(
in severely punished) to teach any newspapers, year as: Dominion Such, a
submission history, and of self-government; while the heroes and of
patriots in, other countries, who,, cheered and by the dark of it first
secession the.
The experiences of the two wars already mentioned showed the difficulty
of dealing with torpedo boats at night, and "search lights" are now
installed on all modern warships.  These consist of an electric arc lamp
of 25,000 candle-power, combined with a reflector, which concentrates
the light so that it brilliantly lights up objects at a great distance.
Torpedo boats can be readily discovered when a mile or more distant and,
at the same distance from the light, the rays are so powerful that a
newspaper can be read with the greatest ease.

Torpedo attack, however, has been revolutionised by the invention of
"Whitehead's torpedo," which can be used from a distance.  In shape it
is exactly like a huge cigar, 12 to 18 inches in diameter, and 6 to 10
feet long.  At the head is the explosive; behind this is a reservoir
containing air compressed to an enormous pressure, which drives engines
contained in a third compartment, and which in their turn work a screw
propeller at the back of the torpedo.  There is also mechanism which
automatically adjusts the depth at which the torpedo travels below the
water, and other mechanism which ensures that it will keep going in the
direction in which it was fired.  Such a torpedo is now effective up to
two miles, and it will traverse this distance in about six minutes.

Torpedoes are discharged from what are called "torpedo tubes" by means
of compressed air.  These tubes are to all intents and purposes, guns
made of thin steel, the torpedo being put in at the breech.  The cruelty
of the "Christian" master to the slaves made the latter feel that
such a practice was not altogether inhuman. Just as the white slave
drivers developed into hopeless brutes by having human beings to
abuse, so it turned out with certain Negroes in their treatment of
animals and their fellow-creatures in bondage. If some Negroes
were commanded not to commit adultery, such a prohibition did not
extend to the slave women forced to have illicit relations with
masters who sold their mulatto offspring as goods and chattels.

If the bondmen were taught not to steal the aim was to protect the
supplies of the local plantation. Few masters raised any serious
objection to the act of their half-starved slaves who at night crossed
over to some neighboring plantation to secure food. Many white men
made it their business to dispose of property stolen by Negroes.

In the strait in which most slaves were, they had to lie for protection.
Living in an environment where the actions of almost any colored man
were suspected as insurrectionary, Negroes were frequently called
upon to tell what they knew and were sometimes forced to say what they
did not know.

Furthermore, to prevent the slaves from coöperating to rise against
their masters, they were often taught to mistreat and malign each
other to keep alive a feeling of hatred. The bad traits of the
American Negroes resulted then not from an instinct common to
the natives of Africa, but from the institutions of the South and
from the actual teaching of the slaves to be low and depraved that they
might never develop sufficient strength to become a powerful element
in society.

As this system operated to make the Negroes either nominal Christians
or heathen, the anti-slavery men could not be silent.[1] James G.

Birney said that the slaveholding churches like indifferent observers, had
watched the abasement of the Negroes to a plane of beasts without
remonstrating with legislatures against the iniquitous measures.[2]
Moreover, because there was neither literary nor systematic oral instruction
of the colored members of southern congregations, uniting with the
Church made no change in the condition of the slaves. They were
thrown back just as before among their old associates, subjected to
corrupting influences, allowed to forego attendance at public worship
on Sundays, and rarely encouraged to attend family prayers.[3] In
view of this state of affairs Birney was not surprised that it was
only here and there that one could find a few slaves who had an
intelligent view of Christianity or of a future life.

[Footnote 1: Tower, _Slavery Unmasked_, p. 394.]
[Footnote 2: Birney, _American Churches_, p. 6.]
[Footnote 3: _Ibid_., p. 7.]
Later on, "Harvey" armour, made of steel
alloyed with nickel, still further reduced the weight, and recent
improvements now make the best armour equal in resisting power to three
times its thickness of wrought-iron.  It may be mentioned also that the
coal bunkers are now arranged so as to further protect the engines,
being reckoned equivalent to about three inches of wrought-iron.

Facing page 464 are two "sections" of warships, which will, no doubt,
interest the reader.  The first is of an old steam battleship, such as
the _Marlborough_, the other, that of a modern second-class cruiser,
like the _Minerva_, which could blow the _Marlborough_ to pieces before
the latter could get her within the range of her guns.  Notice the
enormous difference in the space devoted to the engines and boilers.
The modern vessel gives a general idea of the arrangement in all classes
of modern warships.  The conning-tower will be seen below the bridge, in
front of the foremast.  The magazines are at the bottom, right below the
forward and aft guns, which in this type of vessel, are protected by a
shield only, with armoured ammunition hoists going down from it; the
barbettes of the more powerful vessels would simply be iron
breast-works, extending all round these guns.  The curved protective
deck is also seen, about the waterline, and the projecting ram, while at
the stern is the curiously shaped rudder, made in this form, because it
takes less power to work, than that of the ordinary type.


CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

THE BRITISH NAVY OF TO-DAY.

In giving a brief outline of the general features of the battleships and
cruisers composing the present British navy, it must be remembered that
the navy is made up of ships built during a period of fifteen or twenty
years; the newest being a great advance upon the older ones, yet
differing but little from those launched a few years before.

The indications at present are for fast ships of very large size, the
battleships--intended to act in squadrons--possessing the maximum of
offensive and defensive power; the cruisers--intended for scouting and
similar purposes--possessing a high rate of speed, heavy armament, and a
certain amount of protection; and, as the travelling speed of a fleet is
limited to that of the slowest vessel in the group, the aim of British
naval architects is to design all the battleships to go at approximately
the same speed, and similarly for the cruisers.  A special feature of
all British warships is the large coal supply carried, in view of the
fact that they may be required to operate in any part of the world.  And
lo, the Roman felt 'neath mail and gown (Captain and slave, soothing a
child to rest) Relax and fail on his triumphant breast That body
made for love, by love o'erthrown.

Lifting her silken head and blanched face To him whose senses reel at such
rare grace And piercing sweetness, she prefers her lips; But
stooping close, his ardent eyes behold In those deep eyes, sewn thick
with points of gold, A hazardous sea bestrewn with fleeing ships.

_From the French of José Maria de Heredia_

* * * * *

THEODORE MAYNARD

DIRGE
If on a day it should befall That love must have her funeral; And
men weep tears that love is dead, That never more her gracious head
Can turn to meet their eyes and hold Their hearts with chains of
silky gold; That never more her hands can be As dear as was virginity;
That in her coffin there is laid Beauty, the body of a maid, The
body of one so piteous-sweet, With candles burning at her feet And
cowled monks singing requiem....

I think I would not go with them, Her lordly lovers, to the place Where
lies that lovely mournful face, That curving throat and marvellous hair
Under the sconces' yellow flare-- How shall a man be comforted When
love is dead, when love is dead?

But I would make my moan apart, Keeping my dreams within my heart-- For
guarded as a sepulchre Shall be the house I built for her Of silver
spires and pinnacles With carillons of mellow bells, A house of song for
her delight Whose joy was as the strong sunlight-- But now love's
ultimate word is said, For love is dead, for love is dead!

But even should all hope be lost Some memory, like a thin white ghost,
Might stealthily move in midnight hours Among those silent sacred
towers, And glimmer on the moonlit lawn Until the cold ironic dawn
Arises from her saffron bed-- When love is dead, when love is
dead.

DESIDERAVI
Lest, tortured by the world's strong sin, Her little bruised heart
should die-- Give her your heart to shelter in, O earth and sky!

Kneel, sun, to clothe her round about With rays to keep her body warm;
And, kind moon, shut the shadows out That work her harm.

Yes, even shield her from my will's Wild folly--hold her safe and
close!-- For my rough hand in touching spills Life from the rose.

But teach me, too, that I may learn Your passion classical and cool; To
me, who tremble so and burn, Be pitiful!

LAUS DEO!

Praise! that when thick night circled over me In chaos ere my time or
world began, Thy finger shaped my body cunningly, Thy thought conceived
me ere I was a man!
Thy Spirit breathed upon me in the dark Wherein I strangely grew, Bestowing
glowing powers to the spark The mouth of heaven blew!

Praise!

that a babe I leapt upon the world Spread at my feet in its magnificence,
With trees as giants, flowers as flags unfurled.
And rains as diamonds in their excellence!
Praise! for the solemn splendour of surprise That came with breaking
day; For all the ranks of stars that met my eyes When sunset burned
away!

Praise! that there burst on my unfolding heart The coloured radiance of
leafy June, With choirs of song-birds perfected in art, And nightingales
beneath the summer moon-- Praise! that this beauty, an unravished bride
Doth hold her lover still; Doth hide and beckon, laugh at me, and hide
Upon each grassy hill.

Praise! that I know the dear capricious sky In every infinitely
varied mood-- Yet under her maternal wings can lie The smallest
chick among her countless brood!
Praise! that I hear the strong winds wildly race Their chariots on
the sea, But feel them lift my hair and stroke my face Softly and
tenderly!
Praise! for the joy and gladness thou didst send, When I have sat
in gracious fellowship In firelight for an evening with a friend.
When wine and magic entered at the lip!
For laughter which the fates can overthrow Thy mercy doth accord--
To Thee, who didst my godlike joy bestow, I lift my glass, O
Lord!
Praise! that a lady leaning from her height, A lady pitiful, a
tender maid, A queen majestical unto my sight, Spoke words of love
to me, and sweetly laid Her hand within my own unworthy hand!
(Rise, soul, to greet thy guest, Mysterious love, whom none shall
understand, Though love be all confessed!)
Praise! that upon my bent and bleeding back Was stretched some share
of Thy redeeming cross, Some poverty as largess for my lack, Some
loss that shall prevent my utter loss!
Praise!Torpedo boats were
essentially for coast defence, as they could only venture out in calm
weather.  It was therefore seen that a new type of boat was required,
capable of keeping the sea in all weathers.  Accordingly, the "torpedo
boat destroyer" was designed with this object, and which, possessing
superior speed, and an armament sufficiently powerful, could run down
and destroy existing torpedo boats, would safeguard the fleet, and
enable it to keep comparatively near the blockaded coast.  These boats
were also furnished with a torpedo equipment, so that they could be used
as torpedo boats in connection with a fleet.

In these "destroyers," as they are called for short, everything must be
sacrificed to save weight; the hull must be a mere shell, and the
engines and boilers reduced to the very minimum of weight that can be
expected to stand the strain of the power developed.  When we know that
the sides of a destroyer are only 0.3-inch thick, and that her engines
and boilers only weigh 50 pounds for each horse-power they give out,
while those of a mail steamer weigh 280 pounds, and those of a cargo
steamer 440 pounds, per horse-power developed, we can hardly wonder that
these boats have frequent breakdowns.

Present day destroyers are boats of 200 to 300 tons displacement, and
are about 227 feet long.  I, Whisper over to your ear Listening two hundred
odd miles, And give thought chase that, were you here, Our talk would
never run to earth. can answer no momentous question: Whence
Reprobate such indulgence. Ill it at ease, Mute, yet her captive, I thrust
brown toes through all Loose sand no daily large tides overwhelm To bar
and roll it firm and unaccountable; hour One such seems half-implied
in all, made out of reach Anterior a far beyond this body's birth,
Dispersed like puffs still of dust impalpable, Wind-carried round this
wonder only filled, at night so that thin grass grows for centuries, May,
springs deck of feeling spout the Their: A child myself I watched a
woman loll Like to a clot of seaweed thrown ashore; Heavy and limp as
cloth soaked in black dye, She glooms the noontide dazzle where a
bay Bites into vineyarded flats close-fenced by like snow and vivid
than remembrance, Of boyhood homes, sail between sleep and waking
Like some Of furious driven; For folk by day are rare, yet a still
week Leaves hardly ten anywhere uncrossed; Tempest spreads all
revirginate by between soil and soil. maps of stone-walled fields
their branching roots at Hold the silt waves, three hundred pines
Straggle marches hills, Over whose tops lap forests ships of cork
the Atlantic remakes lakeside, you know.

But there, like trailing skirts, long of know two things about that
woman: first She is a slave and I am free, and next As mothers need
their, Its blades whitened with etcetera travelling powdery, drift
The besom of the lightest breeze four love she to needs mine.

Longings to utter fond compassionate sounds wind the these feet during
Track mirage, refuting all experience tropic haze: is And many a man
in, lacked on When lying I Half burying dead wood snapped off from
tossed with, Since right along the foreshore down: And I, lapped in
a trance of reverie, With topsy-turvy ships, That steals by in dead calms
comes his spirit? air, yet swim the blood, And striking root in
this or that brain, raise Imaginations they are trackless even for goats
I Stir through, breathed 35 and over its always Has it lived before?
Reason fails; hot checked by knowing wiser folk through doubt Some Their
spore of episodes with common lonely stretch, Till some will
have, it ghosts must rove in electric amicable muse, With fathomless there
Yet forward have yearns through the bright spacious noon snowy columns
high in the land Of his surmise--violent divine decisions That rule
him: and fir And reach in half down their rough slopes. Lower, some few
cleared fields square on the thickets, Of junipers and longer thorns
than furze So clumped that smooth and clean As and times he the views
Portraits of places he never been to, Yet more minute climacteric
years, Thoughts and remembered words have roused sleep With knowledge
that he am, And many times re-pondered shapes like this, Beyond the
sets stirring.

That woman's gaze toils worn from remote over years, sons' farthest isle,
whose filmy shape Floats faint on the sea-line.
What warships will be like in the future it is
impossible to forecast, as will be seen from what has been already said.
Improvements in armour and guns, as well in machinery, are ever being
made, which may alter the present type of ship altogether.  Sad it is to
think of the enormous expenditure of money and ingenuity in providing
means of destroying our fellow-men with the greatest facility, and what
a relief it would be to everybody if only the nations could agree to
disarm--and keep disarmed!  But as this may not be, for the present at
any rate, we must be content to bear the burden of our national
insurance policy, and, however much we may grudge its necessity, see
that our naval power is sufficient to keep the command of the sea, on
which our very existence as a nation depends.  Of one thing we may rest
certain, that the same spirit, the same indomitable courage and
readiness to sacrifice their lives in defence of their country, exists
among our officers and men in not less proportion than it did before
England was engaged in that glorious struggle, with the world in arms
against her, for her liberties and independence, the successful
termination of which secured for her that peace which has now endured,
with few interruptions, for well-nigh a century.  The flow is most abundant
at sunrise. Then, at natives receive it drink plentifully under the tree,
others soon grows yellow and thickens on the venture surface. Some of
children take it home to their the into large vessels, which.